Yeah, you can sing for us. Are you a singer? I used, I mean, in high school. In high school
you were a singer. In college. You know, just in the choir. But, you know, just like everybody.
Everybody likes to sing it as long as nobody's listening, right? Yeah, that's for sure. Yeah,
people like music. Like to hum along in the shower, right? What's your favorite kind of
music? I don't have, I'm not very specific. Like it's more about like emotional, the emotional
palette that it's playing with. It's different genres of music have the different emotional
palette. Exactly. I'm interested. It depends what kind of mood you're in. Right, which kind of
palette I like. But I particularly like sort of glorious music. Glorious music. Vangelis.
Right, like sort of like epic orchestras. Like as if there was like grand big things. Yes,
like a big battle scene in a movie, the kind of music you would see behind that. Like an epic.
Brian Eno, for example. I don't even know what that means. He's a musician. Sorry. Oh,
he's a guy. Oh, of course. Right. But I'm just saying I could play you some. Oh, yeah. Are you
a musician? Do you play any instruments? No, I mean, I played a recorder a long time ago by that
time. Oh, okay. Like in college, I would relax by going into like stairwells in the university
and playing my recorder in the stairwell. And I really got into, well, somebody,
somebody told me I was doing that near their class and they said they were hearing this
music from the like air ducts in the classroom that couldn't figure out where I was coming from.
Interesting. That's very interesting. Okay, well, let's officially get this thing going.
Mr. Robin Hansen. It's great to meet you. First of all, nice to meet you, sir.
For our listeners and our viewers, can you give me a brief description of who you are,
your background and your areas of interest? That's going to be hard because I've just been
all over the place. I know you really have. But if you could give me some sort of a synopsis.
So long ago, I started out in engineering in college. I switched to physics, got an undergraduate
degree in physics, and then I decided I wanted to understand what the hell science was. So I went
off to University of Chicago to study philosophy of science. But then I kind of answered the
questions for myself and switched back to physics. And then I saw cool things happening in Silicon
Valley and heard about AI and hypertext. And so I left school with two masters in physics and
philosophy of science to go off to Silicon Valley, where I did AI research and Bayesian statistics
as a job. And on the side, did hypertext publishing and a bunch of other stuff
for nine years. And then I went back to school to get my PhD at the age of 34 with two kids,
age zero and two. Wow. In a four years in your route program, because they guarantee, you know,
they basically everybody gets kicked out after four years. That was good. And I got my degree in
PhD in social science from Caltech. And then I went on the market and did better in political
science than I did in econ, but I didn't get a job. I got a postdoc in health policy for
two years at Berkeley. And then I went on the market again and got my current job
as a professor of economics at George Mason University. And since I got tenure in 2006,
I allowed myself to spread out a bit more. And I started a blog called Overcoming Bias.
And I've since written two books, one, a futurist book called The Age of M, Work, Love and Life,
When Robots Rule the Earth, and then a psychology book called The Elephant in the Brain, Hidden
Motives in Everyday Life. And I'm still pretty much all across the map. I've done a lot of
different things. The thing I'm most famous for is the idea of prediction markets, which I was
working on when I was that computer researcher back before I went back to school. And that's why
I picked Caltech because they did experimental econ. And I thought that would help in these
institution ideas. And I have a wide range of big institution ideas I'm into too. But as you know,
recently, I went back to my astrophysics work and did this grabby alien stuff, picking up on
the great filter stuff I did while I was a postdoc doing health policy at Berkeley
back in that long ago. And so I think most intellectuals are just naturally broad. And in
fact, that's probably one of the main failure modes when people want to become an academic
is they don't focus enough. And I was at risk of failing in that way by not focusing enough because
the academic world really wants you to be the best at one thing and stick with it for the rest of
your life. And doing a lot of different things, it doesn't reward so much. So I slipped by, I managed
to sneak by being a little too broad. The future of Humanity Institute at Oxford. You're a researcher
there. I have an affiliation there. When they were starting up long time ago, they wanted to collect
prestigious affiliation so they could credit everything who there was listed associated with
them for what they did every year. And so I was happy to be included in that when they first got
started when they were small. And now they are big and don't need me anymore for that purpose. But
I'm happy to still be affiliated. So the purpose of that was to look at the big picture questions
about humanity, right? Absolutely. And what to you, what are the fundamental big picture questions
about humanity? Well, there's where we came from and where we're going. So the future of
humanity, of course, focused on that future. But I think the first job, as always, is diagnosis
before you do prognosis. So the first thing you need to do is just have a foggiest idea of what
might happen when and how. And then you can start to think about how could we move it a little.
So I think people start way too quick to say, what do I want the future to be like?
And sort of map out their ideal case. And actually, it's pretty hard to actually just
figure out what's likely to happen if you do nothing. And you're probably not going to be able
to do a lot. So figure out what's likely to happen if you do nothing and then maybe nudge it a bit.
So people thinking about the future, they of course think about things like global warming,
they think about population and fertility, they think about future of innovation, technology,
like space travel, energy, but innovation of social institutions too. I've been especially
interested in the forms of governance, ways that you can interact with the economy.
And people are usually focused on the future in our era, mediated by technology. That is,
people imagine particular new technologies coming and then they think about how that
will affect the future. So that's been true for a while. And so obviously, artificial
intelligence is one kind of technology. I mean, since I did AI research for nine years,
that was especially salient for me. Obviously, people think about future energy sources,
they think about space travel, they think about environmental impacts.
But there's just a lot more to think about really, if you get creative about it. So
I always thought that there was a neglect of the intersection of social science and tech
in thinking about the future. So most futurists that you hear about are tech people. They know
about some kind of a tech, and they want to tell you where they think that tech is going,
and then what social implications that will have. And like myself, when I was a physics
student a long time ago, they were probably taught that social science doesn't exist. Most
tech people are told that basically, that hard sciences like physics or computer science or
chemistry or even biology, those are real sciences and people really know stuff there. But
over in those social sciences, that's all fluff and made up and there isn't really anything there.
So when tech people go to try to figure out the social implications of the technologies
they're imagining, they kind of wing it with their intuitions. They don't really use expert
social science. Whereas the social scientists who do understand social science, when they think
about the future, they tend to be skeptical about all those tech projections. They look
at the world around them and they figure the technology of the future couldn't possibly be
that different from the technology they see around them and science fiction-y projections
would must just be fantasy. So they don't really take seriously the tech and therefore they don't
really project what future tech might be and then what the social implications are. So there's
this missing intersection. On the one hand, we have tech people who can envision future technologies
and on the other hand, we have social scientists who can project social changes as a result of
whatever perturbations come, including technologies, but they don't put it together much. And that's
one of the things I've tried to do. So my highest, most meta-level principle is to look for important
neglected things. So that's neglected there, right? You find a way that people are neglecting
something that's important and then you can have it all to yourself. So what is the future of humanity
and artificial intelligence if we look into the near future and the distant future? There's a lot
of people who have very dystopian views of how this might look. What are your views on this?
Are they dark or dystopian or are they optimistic?
So first of all, in terms of ordinary artificial intelligence of the sort that most people see
and have seen for a long time of the sort that I did as a researcher, I see that as
accumulating gradually, improving steadily and having a long road still to go. So
that sort of process looks like it will give you plenty of warning before you have bigger problems
to deal with. So we're a long way away from machines being able to do most everything humans do,
perhaps even centuries. And as they start to become more capable, then they will basically
take up a larger fraction of world income. The key signature of AI getting more capable is you pay
it more money instead of people. So because most income goes to pay people today, you can be pretty
sure that people are the main valuable thing today. But later on, with time, we will pay more and more
for the machines and the software because they'll be doing the important things and then eventually
they'll do most things. But there's a long way to go before that and that process will be pretty
gradual. That is, I don't foresee a sudden change where all of a sudden people humans were doing
half the jobs yesterday and next week they're doing almost nothing. The timeline isn't necessarily
linear in a sense that the growth of technology becomes exponential. What we did in the last
100 years compared to the next 100 years will be extremely sped up. Well, I actually think
you should think in terms of a log normal distribution over task difficulty, which is a
mouthful, I guess. So the idea is the difficulty of tasks in automating varies enormously.
So they are spread across a very wide spectrum in terms of how difficult tasks are to automate.
So as you know Moore's law for a while, computers got twice as cheap every two years.
Right. But we didn't see an exponential displacement of humans from jobs,
even as technology was increasing exponentially. That is, we've seen a relatively linear, steady
displacement of jobs, even though technology is increasing exponentially. And a way to
understand that is to imagine there's a distribution for each job of how hard it is,
how much computing power does it take to automate that job? And think of it in terms of many,
many orders of magnitudes, right? So if it was a number like some jobs take one and some takes
ten and ten take a hundred and a thousand and a million and a billion, and that jobs are spread
really far across this really wide range of difficulty. So the very first machines
automated some very simple jobs that people were doing. And then over time, as computers have gotten
better and cheaper, we've been able to automate more jobs by moving up that
spectrum. Like first it was the jobs that only had a difficulty of one, and then the
jobs have ten, and then the jobs that have a hundred. But the idea is the range is really wide.
Like there's jobs up at a trillion and a job is at a quadrillion, right? And so that's why
even as technology has been improving exponentially, the fraction of jobs that the machines do has
not been increasing exponentially because the difficulty of job is just really widely spread.
And at the moment, we are, you know, automating a new set of jobs that we couldn't automate
10 years ago. But we have just a little still really long way to go. And so that would be my
picture for the ordinary kind of AI that we've seen so far. Now my book, The Age of M, is about a
somewhat different kind of AI. And that different kind of AI has more of a threshold effect where
nothing happens until something happens and then a lot suddenly happens.
And that's the idea of a brain emulation. So you have a brain in your head and it has a whole
bunch of cells of different types, which are connected to each other with little wires. And
there's a system by which when signals come into your eyes or your hand, it goes to the brain and
they go, signals go through the cells and each cell takes signals in and sends signals out.
And we could, in principle, copy that whole system in your brain and make a computer model of a
brain like yours that has, you know, a substitute for each cell and a model of how each cell works
that takes signals in and sends signals out, that sends it to the other cells, just like in your
brain. And if we could make a brain emulation of your brain, then it would behave just like you
in the same situation. And that would be powerful human level artificial intelligence.
We are a long way from being able to do that. But we will sometime in the next few centuries
be able to do that. And we might, I think, be able to do that before we can do other kinds
of human level artificial intelligence. And this kind of AI has a threshold. That is,
when we make this emulation of your brain, say we get it wrong, like this cell models are off
or the connections are off. If it's wrong enough, it just won't work. It'll just be mush. It'll just
be a mess. But once we pass a threshold of the model being close enough to you, then it'll
basically work. And so that's this threshold where brain emulations before a certain point,
they're just not really valuable at all. And then after a certain point, they're really valuable.
And then that would have more of a sudden transition into this world where brain emulations were
cheap and common. And that's what my book is all about is what that world looks like.
Have you ever seen the movie or the show Westworld?
Yes, of course. Yes.
Yeah, that is almost exactly what Westworld is about, right? It's about a park. Can you explain?
Right. So the, I mean, initially, it was a movie long ago when I was a kid.
It was also a movie long ago, yeah.
Right. And so the idea is this amusement park where there are robots to entertain the guests.
And they don't really specify how the robots are designed. So in fact, in the TV show Westworld,
they also have brain emulations later in the show as a different thing. And so the
robots in Westworld are not brain emulation robots, but they are AI that are as very
effectively similar to humans. So they present them as very human-like AI.
Right. Even though they're apparently not designed that way.
Right. And of course, it's crazy stupid like a lot of fiction is if you could actually make
those robots as they made them in that show, you wouldn't mainly use them in an amusement park.
You'd use them everywhere in the economy. I mean, so the key thing is human workers
are get more than half of world income. So if you could have a substitute for human workers,
you can make trillions of dollars basically replacing human workers with it. So the idea
that you would just use that in an amusement park and nowhere else is kind of crazy.
Well, the idea, the main incentive for Westworld, correct me if I'm wrong, I may be misinterpreting
it. That's been a while, but I believe the main incentive of it was to longevity, right, to live
forever, to be able to learn enough from these real humans that we're interacting with them,
to be able to copy them, to copy their minds. So when their biological body dies, they can
take that copy and put it in a cyborg or a social robot. There were three main lines of business
that I recall from Westworld TV show. The first main line of business was these entertainment
of the amusement park. Right. Okay. A second line of business was they were trying to make
uploads and I believe they showed that as failing, that is, they just didn't work.
And then the third secret line of business that they reveal later on is that they are
watching the visitors to the park very closely and therefore learning to predict human behavior.
And somehow the idea is that that was much more valuable than just having human-level robots.
So somehow, because somehow you could market to them, right? You could send them advertisements
and predict what they do. And so in the later seasons, they have these big spherical computers
that are predicting the world. What will everybody will do, right? As if that was
some enormously economically valuable thing compared to the robots, which that seems crazy,
because people predicting future behavior, the moment that doesn't command much
income in the world, there's not a lot of demand for that. There is some, but it's not that big.
But people working, there's a huge demand for that. The world is full of people working and
if you can substitute for people working, you can make trillions. I don't think you can make
trillions just because you can predict what TV show somebody will watch next or which
way they will turn on the street. There's just not that much money there, but it sets up this
dystopian thing, oh my God, they can predict what I'll do. I just feel dehumanized now, right?
So the show went for this emotional threat of you feeling threatened by the fact that a machine
can predict you as the emotional anchor of the show, as opposed to these machines can take your
jobs. Pardon this brief interruption, but I want to take a minute to talk about this incredible
supplement that I've been using for over a year now after it was recommended to me by nutritional
scientist Dr. Dominic D'Agostino on this podcast. I take Dom's advice when it comes to anything
related to nutrition, diet, and longevity, because as we get older, these things become
more and more important. That is why I started using Verso. Verso is a company that is dedicated
to translating scientific breakthroughs into products that hold the potential to increase
longevity. I take CellBeing, this one right here, which contains nicotinamide mononucleotide,
or NMN-based supplement, paired with naturally derived, micronized, trans-resveratrol, and TMG.
These two chemicals are actually precursors to what's called nicotinamide-idonine
dinonucleotide, which is commonly known as NAD. And NAD is essentially the precursor to energy,
cell repair, and longevity. If you've ever tried fasting or even intermittent fasting,
and you've gotten that feeling of super high energy or mental clarity, it's because your body
is activating these genes called sirtuins, which are actually longevity genes. The downside is,
as we age, NAD declines. When I found out I could naturally increase my body's activation of sirtuins
and naturally activate my body's production of NAD, I was sold. And it is so much more affordable
than doing NAD IV drips. Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code CONCRETE at checkout to
save 15% on your entire order. That's K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E at checkout. And get 15% off your entire order,
or you can just go to ver.so slash K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E. It's linked below. Back to the show.
Right. It's more of an advertising type thing, right? They can make money with advertising to you
or sell you something. Which is tiny compared to work. Right. Like, advertising is like
2% or 3% of GDP, right? Whereas work is like 70% of GDP. Oh, wow. Okay.
Right. So, if you could take over the advertising industry, you could take over the work industry,
take over the work industry. Right. Do you imagine those little pearls they call them? Do you imagine
is that like a realistic physical form of what a brain might be uploaded to?
I mean, that's just to have a dramatic physical thing to look at. I mean, obviously, almost all
computers these days have wires by which they transfer files by wires from one computer to
another. If sometimes when they want to send a file physically, they have them on tape and they
mail them. But I mean, the fact that they have these little shiny silver balls doesn't make
much sense. But that's not forgivable because that's also not terribly wrong. I mean,
you could do it that way, just not that you would. It seems like we're at least beginning
one of the first steps towards that with, for example, the Neuralink that Elon Musk is producing
that directly interfaces with the brain. I mean, it's essentially like a super evolved version of
the iPhone, you know, but it's in your, it's actually attached to your brain. You would think
about things and be able to communicate without speech. In principle, it would just have a higher
bandwidth. Right. Exactly. Your brain could talk to a machine and back before with a higher bandwidth.
So I mean, obviously bandwidth is valuable. The key question is for what? What is exactly the value
of high bandwidth? So, well, I mean, your brain was designed for high bandwidth through your eyes,
say in ears, right? So your brain really wasn't designed to take high bandwidth input in through
other channels. That is your brain, you know, has a whole system there for what it's where it
expects to get input and then has a whole system for processing that input. So it's not obvious
that we can actually usefully give your brain a lot of input other than through the input channels
it was designed to take. Interesting. Yeah, because I always think about it. The first thing
that I think about when I think of things like Neuralink is being able to like the advantages
that you would have over other human beings, like being able to, for example, download a book into
your brain and know it in 30 seconds or, you know, the advantages you have in the economic world if
you have that technology. That would be hard. So the brain emulation scenario is a scenario where,
you know, you equivalently have Neuralink, you know, easy because they're just on computers
anyway, so it would be easy to send information in. But it's not clear you could just, you know,
download a book and they would know it because that requires that you restructure the brain. So,
Oh, how so? Well, you know, so if you if you imagine like having files on your computer,
you could download a movie and then the movies on the computer and if you hit play, you play the
movie software, right? But if you have a large, say a library, right, a large library full of books,
and now you want all those books to reflect some new insight in math, right? You don't just like
put the math book somewhere in the library, right? All the other books don't update on the math book
sitting in the library, you'll have to get all the other books to change in response to this new
thing, you know, so that they've integrated into the rest of the books, right? So taking any large
library and getting it to reflect some new math insight would be hard, would be time consuming,
you'd have to go find all the books that actually are related to that,
understand them and rewrite those chapters in order to reflect the new insight that you were
trying to get in. Right, that makes that makes perfect sense. So one of the most memorable
quotes from that movie to me, which I've talked about on this podcast many times. And I think
about a lot, which I'm fascinated here, your opinion on it was when Ford, the man who developed
the theme park with the AIs, he said that human intellect is like peacock feathers, it's an
elaborate display to attract a mate, all of the best of Mozart, all the best of Shakespeare,
the best of Michelangelo, even the Empire State Building, just an elaborate mating ritual.
And maybe that all the things that humanity has accomplished doesn't even matter,
because it was done so for the basis of reasons, even the peacock can barely fly,
it lives in the dirt and it picks insects out of the muck.
What are your thoughts on that quote?
I do expect that peacock feather kind of drives, we're an important drive in human mind evolution,
but it's also clear that human minds are spectacularly capable compared to most other animal minds.
It's clear that human civilization together with human minds has been able to accomplish
amazing things. Now, it could be it's only accomplishing them with 10% of the brain and
the rest of the 90% is peacock feathers, but still something in there is amazingly
capable compared to all the other animals. That's just obvious. So then you might want to
understand which parts are which, try to disentangle the fundamentally more useful parts from the
others, but certainly something in there is useful. But the brain is huge, so it could well not be
most of it. Well, it goes back to the main one of the main or the main theory of your book,
the elephant in the brain, right, where there's explain what that book is and what the basic
idea of it is. So the idea is that you are wrong about why you do many things, right?
That is, if I asked you why you do most of the things you do, you'll give me a reason. And it
turns out most of those reasons are wrong. That is, it's the reason you have in your head. It's
the reason you can sort of explain and justify and to some degree, your behavior is driven by that
thing, but not mostly. So, but most of the things you are doing, instead, the motives you have are
reasonable motives to have, they just don't look as nice as the motives you'd like to point to.
So, for example, you go to school not to learn the material, because you don't actually learn much
material. You go to school to show off, to show that you are capable, and also to sort of learn
sort of modern workplace habits. You go to the doctor not to get well, but to show that you
care about people and to let them they show they care about you. You vote not to help the nation
do better, but to show your allegiance to your political tribe.
Each of these things is a useful function for a social animal. It's just not the function you
claim. Now, some of these functions are more zero sum or have waste, at least. So, many of these
functions that you don't like to admit that you're not really aware of are showing off.
And showing off is often wasteful. Like, going all those years to school just to show off how
smart and conscientious and conformist you are is a lot of waste. But it's not all waste.
It is important for people to be able to judge who's how capable and to sort them into different
kinds of tasks and roles based on knowing about their features. And, you know,
large social worlds, we do need to show and judge loyalty. And a lot of these signals are
to show and judge loyalty. So, like the peacock feathers are just showing that you can put up
with the feathers. That is, you have enough, you know, other capabilities that if a predator comes
after you, you can usually survive even though you're carrying around this big wasteful set of
feathers. But those feathers aren't really useful for much else. But many of the capabilities that
humans have acquired that we show off are actually more useful for other things. Now,
maybe evolution just got lucky and didn't realize how useful they would be. But clearly,
something in the human brain, the capacity the human brain has allowed us to do enormous
things compared to most animals. So, acquiring wealth would be an example of something that
would be impressive and it also has many other rights. Right, exactly. Sure. Or language. So,
for example, most people use a larger vocabulary than they really need to. Because they show off
how much they know to do a larger vocabulary. And I noticed I use the word vocabulary instead of
just saying, you know, many words. So, I was showing off that I had a bigger vocabulary. But
words are useful. So, you are learning things like that. Many, you know, ancient societies,
people who are rich, what they show off by getting things from far away. Strange, you know,
things that local people wouldn't have that they would have an unusual thing. And that encouraged
trade and long distance travel interactions. War has actually been one of the largest drivers
of innovation over the last 10,000 years. War is terribly destructive. Nevertheless,
the drive to improve war technology has in fact, you know, driven a lot of technological improvements.
Right. So, the key thing is once you open some new territory of learning and expanding,
even if you're wasting most of your effort there, the remaining effort can just produce huge returns.
Yeah, one of the most absurd examples I've thought of when it comes to the idea of the
elephant in the brain is Elon Musk. You know, you think of him as this just crazy flamboyant,
you know, the richest man in the world. And he also builds rockets and wants to make
our species interplanetary. Or does he? Or does he just want money and women?
I'm not sure I care. I'm not sure I care. Right. Because at the same time,
whether that is his drive or not, the things that he's accomplishing are valuable and
very important to us. I mean, I think if you're going to pick one person on the planet today
that you want to be really impressed with what they've accomplished, it would have to be him.
That's true. So, you know, I have to give hats off. I mean,
and he's going on to accomplish more things, no doubt many of them will fail. But
but yes, we humanity is on a tear and we have a bright future ahead of us if we so choose,
even if we are now wasting enormous fractions of our civilization on peacock feathers.
And in some sense, that makes the prospects even brighter. If we could cut the waste,
we could get even more. Simulation theory. How far do you go into simulation theory
in your books? And what are your estimations of the probability of simulation theory?
So many decades ago, the idea that we might be living with simulation was a common theme on
some of the mailing lists I was on. And then at one point, one of the people who was on the
mailing list went off and wrote a philosophy paper based on that, a Nick Bostrom. And then
that got more attention. And then at the time, that inspired me to write a paper on how to live
in a simulation, because that was neglected. So there are many of these topics where, again,
people want to mainly focus on the technology itself, when it might happen, is it possible?
And they rarely, they neglect the social implications. So I thought, let's just think
about the social implications of a simulation. If you were living in one, how should you live
your life differently? And so I do have that paper on that. But the key idea here is that
in the future, things like brain emulations will be possible. And therefore, it will be
possible to create creatures who are in a world that looks completely real to them,
but is in some sense not. It's fake. So like in the movie The Matrix or things like that,
it'll be possible to make such creatures. And some of those creatures would be set in a world
like the past of that world. Just like today, when we make movies, some of our movies are set
in our past and some of our games are set in our past or something like that. And so if there was
a creature set in some fictional world who doesn't know they're in a fictional world,
and if that fictional world is in the past of that civilization, then if you are sitting here in your
world, you could ask, how do I know I'm not that creature? Exactly. I could be, in principle,
in fact, that future creature who thinks they're in this current day, but is actually in the future
in a simulated world made to look like they're past. So the relative chances that I am a simulation
like that really comes down to a numbers game. Like how many people are there here today, really?
And how many people would there be in the future simulating my time now? And that's, you have to
come up with estimates of those relative numbers in order to guess, could I be in a simulation? So
if you think there are relatively few people in the future who would be simulations of the past,
then you think it's not very likely that I'm in a simulation. But if you think there's enormous
numbers of them in the future, then you would have to think, well, then it's pretty likely, right?
Now, we should first notice like, if you were simulating the past, you're not going to
equally randomly select from the past to simulate. So when we do movies or we do games,
right? We do Caesar all the time or Napoleon all the time. And all the other people, not so often,
right? So that means your chance of being in a simulation does depend on how
photogenic your life is, in the sense, is your life the sort of life somebody might want to
simulate? So would be an interesting player, right? Or are you a famous person? Did you have a big
impact on the future, right? So we'll often pick famous people in the past who we see as having
had a big historical impact as the people we simulate in our past when we do novels or games
or things like that. So then that would modify your estimate for yourself. If you are a random
person, that's different than if your life seems to be a specially good story, especially story
that the future might. So Elon Musk himself should assign a higher probability than the
rest of us to living in a simulation because it would be more likely somebody would simulate
his life compared to ours. Right. Okay. But let's set that aside and let's just think about an
ordinary average person today and ask what's the chance they're living in a simulation?
Well, I'd say we're going to basically do an integral where we multiply two numbers. So basically
there's all these different years in the future. And each year in the future, we'll have a certain
size economy, which has some amount of past simulations that are happening in that economy.
Right. So in each future year, there's some percentage of that economy that they spend
doing these past simulations. Right. So we could count that now in terms of our how many
historical novels do we have or historical games or something. Right. And we could also have
which past they're interested in, you see. So as the future, as we get farther in the future,
we expect the future to get bigger, the economy get bigger. And then even if there's just a
constant fraction of that future economy that's spent thinking about the past, that amount gets
bigger. Right. Right. So the farther we go into the future, the more past simulations we expect
to be happening at that moment and that just in future time. Okay. But we expect those simulations
to be spread out across their past according to how interested they are in their past.
That is which pasts are they interested in. Right. And so now when we're thinking about the
future, we're asking, you know, it's an integral over the future. For each future year, one number
one number is how big is that economy and, you know, what fraction of it is devoted to
historical simulations. And the other is how large a fraction of that would we count because
we are competing with all the other dates at which they could be trying to make simulations.
Wow. That's complex. Right. But there's a simple answer. Okay. Which is that if
interest in the past fades faster than the world grows, then most of the simulations of you will
be in the relatively near future. So say if, you know, interest in the future doubled at the moment,
sorry, the future economy say grows by a factor of two every 15 years at the moment. But if interest
in the fact falls by a factor of two every 10 years, then as you can see, even though the
future gets much bigger, it's even less interested in you. Right. Simulating your date. Right. So
because they'll be much more interested in simulating things nearer their own date in terms of their
history. So to all the final bottom line is what we want to ask is how fast does interest in the
past or decline with time compared to the rate at which the population or the economy grows in time.
And there's something called Google N grams. And you can just type in a year like 1900 into
Google N grams, and it will show you how the interest in that year rose with time up until
that year and fell with time after that year. Really? And you can just pick all sorts of dates
and see that. And so you can see how fast does interest in the past fall away as you move away
from that year. And in fact, it falls away faster than the economy or the population grows.
But there are certain years that are way more interesting than others. Certain times in history,
like the ancient Egyptians, when the pyramids were built, or World War II, but we're just
trying to do the overall average first. Okay. Okay. So the overall average seems to be that
our interest in the past fades faster. And that also is roughly true. That is,
say, in the last 10,000 years, the world population doubled roughly every thousand years up until
recently. But I think it seems to me obvious that interest in the past falls faster than a factor
of two every thousand years. So, right. Okay. I mean, so if you look at most historical simulations,
you know, a thousand years ago, you know, almost all the simulations, the percentage of historical
simulations that are past the year 1000, probably well over 90%. Right. And you go back another
thousand years and it falls even faster. And, you know, the fraction of historical simulations
that are of 1000 BC, almost nothing. Right. Look on Netflix or some other thing. Find me a historical
story that took place more than 3000 years ago. Right. It's just almost nothing. But
3000 years ago is only a factor of eight reduced population because it goes to a factor of two
every thing. So, according to the, if it were proportional to the population, then one eighth,
say, of historical simulations should be more than 3000 years ago. Right. But far fewer. I see.
So, here's the bottom line, right? We should only expect the future to simulate us when it's
relatively soon. But actually, we can't do simulations yet. It'll be a while till we can do
simulations of the past. It'll be a while before we can create creatures who are in a simulation
that don't know they're in the past. We're not able to do that yet. Right. And so, by the time
they can do it, it'll be far enough in the future. They'll be hardly interested in us at all. Right.
And then they'll only be able to do a few at first. And as they get able to do more,
they get even less interested in us. Right. Why would they be interested in this? We're just too
far in the past. We're too far in the past. Unless we are somehow special. So, some people
have claimed that we are in the special era, that the future will be unusually interested in us,
especially because we are different. Why would they be interested in us right now?
Well, many people are attracted or tied to this idea that this is a pivotal moment in history.
And that's what motivates them to do a lot of things they do because this is the moment that
matters. And of course, it's a bit of arrogance and self-sufficiency. It sounds like something that
every every... Obviously, it could be true in principle. I don't actually think it is that true.
I mean, some important things are happening now, but important things happen a century ago and
a century before that. What would be the social implication of everybody being aware that they
are in a simulation? Of human beings being aware that we're in a simulation. What would change?
What would be the social implications? Well, you have to ask, what's the purpose of the simulation?
So, clearly, somebody who made a simulation could have told people in a simulation that
were in a simulation, right? If they had wanted to do that. Okay. So, clearly, they didn't want to do
that, right? Right. So, if people in a simulation figure out they're in a simulation against the
wishes of the people who set up the simulation, the question is, what can the people who set up
the simulation do in response? And they have enormous powers to deal with that. So, I don't
think they're actually going to suffer that problem. So, they wouldn't let us allow us to
figure it out. If they don't want to, it doesn't seem like they want to. Unless they want to do
a simulation of a world that finds out and see what they do, but that's going to be a kind of
unusual special thing to simulate. No doubt they do that sometimes, but not very often.
Right. So, one of the main things you can do in a simulation is you can sort of have noise and
error in how you do the simulation. And then if something happens that wasn't supposed to happen,
you just back it up and you do it again, right? So, simulations don't have to just run forward.
They can back up. So, that's just the nature of the way we do computer simulations,
all sorts of systems today. So, that means if there's anything you don't want to have happen in
a simulation, it's relatively easy to prevent it. That is, if you see the thing go wrong and then
you stop, you back it up and you take that, you know, you change something and then you roll it
back forward and you keep doing that until you get the thing you want it. Right. Right. That makes
sense. So, you know, if you're in a simulation, you are very much at their mercy and you will not
know things. They don't want you to know. What if they did want us? What if they did decide to let
us know we were in a simulation? Well, then we're in a simulation where they want to find out what
happens when they let us know. And of course, they will try that different variations on that and
then, you know, they will see the different variations. Wow. That's fascinating. And people
like Elon Musk, people who have more interesting lives, who have made a greater impact on history,
those are people that are more inclined to believe. Well, they should be more inclined to believe.
For them, it is in fact true that they are more likely to be living in simulation. Right.
The great filter. What inspires you to write this paper on the great filter? I believe you
collaborated on it with a few people. Is that right? And then what is the basic idea of the
great filter? So, the great filter is something I did over 20 years ago, 25 years ago, almost now.
And 1996, right? It started. And that was about just reframing the great,
what they say, Fermi's question, where is everybody? So, we look up in the universe and
looks empty and dead. And we look at our future. We see this prospect for us to be lively and
invisible. And there's a bit of a conflict here. We don't see around us the things we
expect to be in the future. So, I reframed that question, just asked a different way. And I said,
well, big visible things of the sort that we hope to become soon, they will have to appear
by going down a path. They start with simple dead matter early in the universe. And then they're
on a planet, say, and life appears and life goes through stages and eventually it gets to our stage
and eventually goes from our stage on to this big visible stage. And going down that path,
it must be very hard to go from the beginning and get all the way to the end by this point in
the history of the universe because almost nothing has done it. So, that would be to say,
there's a filter on that path. Things start in at one end of a pipe and almost nothing comes out
the other end of the pipe. Because, look, this whole universe started on the pipe. Every piece of
rock anywhere could have started down this path to evolve life and spread. But we're the only thing
we can see that's farther down the pack and we don't see anything that's farther beyond where
we hope to be. So, that's the claim that to get all the way to where we hope to be is very hard.
There's a very large filter between that final destination and the initial stage of simple
dead matter. And when you say filter, what specifically are you referring to? What would
a filter be? What's an example of a filter? So, you know, you could have a planet where
it never evolved even life in the first place, right? And then it failed to pass that first step.
And then you could have some place with simple life but didn't become more complicated life,
like with sexual reproduction, say, or photosynthesis or, you know, a whole bunch of
multicellular things, right? So, on earth, life went through a bunch of stages. And we could say,
each stage when it made a key change, it passed through a filter step. It succeeded in accomplishing
something that maybe most planets never do. And that's the great filter is the difficulty of
going all the way down this path to the place where we are now and then on forward. So, the fact
the universe looks dead and empty says that filter is big. And it also raises a question,
how far along the filter are we? Because we're not all the way. And so, clearly, it's a huge
filter. And even if just a small fraction is ahead of us, that says bad news about our future.
A small fraction is ahead of us. What do you mean by that?
So, it could be, say, the total filter is maybe 10 to the 24, for example. Like, only one planet
out of 10 to the 24 ever reaches advanced life that becomes visible in the universe.
Well, it could be that we've gone through 10 to the 22 of it so far. And we only have 10 to the
two left. But that would still mean we only have a 1% chance of getting from here to that final
destination. That is 99% chance we won't, probably by dying, which is kind of scary.
Yes. What are the chances that we already made it through the great filter?
Well, that's, again, about how much of it we have passed. So,
you could look at, you know, our history and try to guess which things were hard. But the
problem is, actually, the timing doesn't tell you much. So, it turns out that if we were very
lucky on Earth to get as far as we did, then even if the different steps before us were had
different difficulties, the timing would be roughly equally spaced. And therefore, we do see
roughly equally spaced timing between major transitions. And so, that actually doesn't
tell us much about how hard those steps were. If we were to find other life out there in the
universe that had gone independently down this path, that would be big information about how
hard the steps were. So, if we found some other life out there, say, that was just primitive life,
that didn't share an origin with us, well, that would be big news about how hard that first step
was. And it would suggest it's easier than we might have feared. So, paradoxically, any evidence
we see of independent life out there in the universe that's gone anywhere along the path
to where we are is bad news about our future. If we discover any sort of life out there,
that's bad news for us, because it would suggest that maybe these earlier steps aren't as hard as
we thought, and therefore, the later steps we still have to go are harder than we thought.
So, that's all the great filter stuff. You were talking about the work I did with some other
people. That's in the last two and a half years. And that's what we call grabby aliens.
And that's basically giving numerical estimates for the great filter,
right, telling you just how big it is. And therefore, saying more specifically,
the distribution of aliens in space time. And we claim that we kind of have the answer to that.
So, what are grabby aliens? So, there's two kinds of aliens in the universe, the kinds you can see
and the kinds you can't. So, we just postulate there are some kinds of aliens that would just be
pretty obvious. That is, they started somewhere, but then they expanded and kept expanding. And
in the volume they expanded to do, they changed things. They did stuff. We don't know exactly
what they'll do, but just like humans and life on Earth has changed stuff for it,
ever it goes, they would change stuff. And if they do that to a big enough volume,
they would be noticeable. And so, we can think about what our data says about the obvious ones
in a much easier way than we can about the other kind, the quiet ones.
So, we can come back to the quiet ones, but we're first going to focus on the big obvious ones.
And the key point is, we don't actually see them, right? They would be big and obvious,
and we don't see them. But if we think carefully, we can figure out a lot about what that implies,
might not realize that it says a lot, that we can't see them.
So, what we have is a three-parameter model of where aliens are in space-time,
and each of the parameters can be fit to data. And then, you kind of need to believe this model
to explain why we're so early in time, which is one of the key data points, our current date.
And so, you know, I'm happy to walk through if you want, each of these parameters.
Austin, you should be able to pull up some sort of graphics that represent this concept and
this study. Yeah, let's go through that. We are here at 14 billion years into the history of the
universe. That sounds late. 14 billion years seems like a long time, but it's actually pretty early.
The average star will last for five trillion years. Now, the peak of star formation in the
history of the universe is like a four billion years after the initial. So, we're well past the
peak of star formation, but most stars will last for trillions of years. And so, we are early in
terms of when most stars will exist. And we have a simple theory of when advanced life should appear
that says that the most likely time for advanced life to appear would be
much later in the history of these stars. So, I've told you about how life on Earth had to go
through a number of difficult steps. Yes. And that Earth is probably lucky in having gone
through all of those steps in an unusually short time. That is, most planets out there never get
to our point before that planet ends. Right. Certainly by now in history of the universe.
So, that suggests that it's just hard to do each of these steps. And perhaps each of the steps just
has a crazy long expected time, but that our planet got lucky. So, an analogy is cancer.
In your body, you have many billions of cells. And to produce cancer, a cell needs to go
undergo like six different mutations in that same cell in the entire history of your life.
Now, these mutations are so unlikely that most of your cells never have any of these mutations.
And only a few have a couple of them. But by the end of your life, typically one of them
will get all six mutations. And that's analogous to all these planets in the universe who need
to go through a bunch of steps to produce advanced life. And most of them never even get to the first
step. And hardly any of them get to four steps. And maybe our life got through all six steps to
get to where we are before the deadline of life closing on planet Earth. So, that's like a cell
in your body getting cancer before the deadline of your lifespan ending. In other words, planet Earth
has developed malignant cancer. Right. Although this cancer is great. Depends on how you look at it.
Sure. But I'm going to take that stand. This life is great. But so, what we know is that the
chance of you getting cancer as a function of time goes as a power law in time, where the power is
the number of these mutations that have to happen. So, typically around six. So, you are far more
likely to get cancer near the end of your life than the beginning. It's not constant in time. The
chance just increases dramatically toward the end of your life. It goes as this power law
of the power of sixth of time. Because there's roughly six mutations. Okay. So, similarly for
planets, if advanced life like us is going to appear on a planet like Earth, it's not
equally likely to appear at any moment in the history of that planet. It's far more likely
to happen near the end of that planet's life. And it actually seems like there's roughly six
hard steps that need to happen on a planet like Earth for us to produce life at our level as well.
So, that means over time, the chance of advanced life increases with time.
Right. Now, but longer lived planets, they've got a lot more time for all these hard steps to
go in. And so, the actual chance of life appearing on a longer lived planet also increases by this
power of six. So, we are a planet with, say, five billion years of life and say the typical planet
out there will have five trillion years of life. That's a factor of a thousand more. And if there's
six of these steps, the chance that life would appear on one of those planets till the end of
its life compared to what our planet, the end of our life, is a thousand to the power of six,
or ten to the eighteen. That is, it's crazy unlikely for life to appear on a planet like ours
so early in the universe compared to on a longer lived planet later in the universe.
So, there's something wrong with this analysis because our analysis is saying we are just crazy
early. Sorry, pull that thing just a little bit closer to you. You can adjust. You can pull it
like this. Pull it closer. There you go. So, we're just crazy early compared to when we should
expect life to appear. But the key assumption we made in this analysis is the universe would
just sit empty and wait until we appeared. And that's the assumption we're saying is wrong.
So, what's actually happening is life is popping up and appearing in various places in the universe,
advanced life, and then sometime it becomes grabby, it becomes visible, and when it becomes
grabby, it expands at some speed, and then these civilizations appearing at different
time expand, and then they're expanding waves eventually meet each other. And then that point,
the universe is full of grabby aliens. And then it's too late after that for a life like us to
appear. So, there's a deadline in the history of the universe. First, the universe starts out empty,
and then advanced life starts to appear, and then it expands, and then fills everything up,
and then too late, you can't appear anymore. And that's the explanation for why we are here
so early in the history universe. We are now at a period where the universe is filling up with
aliens, and in a billion years or two, it'll be all full. And we couldn't appear five trillion
years in the future because it will have long since been full then. So, we are just extremely
early compared to other solar systems and other. We're extremely early compared to when we would
have appeared had the universe just waited empty for us. The universe is not waiting empty for us
is the key point. There's a deadline, and that's why we're appearing so early.
So, that's the first thing to say is this is why you need to believe in this theory
is that we are crazy early otherwise. You have to believe there are aliens out there,
and they are filling up the universe right now. And in fact, right now, roughly half the volume
of the universe is full of it. Alien civilizations that we can't see. And in another few billion
years, it'll just all be full. And we have we may well soon join them, i.e. going out and expanding
and becoming a gravity alien civilization. So, this model of aliens appearing has three key
parameters. The there's the first we're going to assume they just appear at random places in space
on the large scale of the universe. The universe is pretty similar. They just appear in a random
galaxy, say, and then they expand at some speed after they appear. So, that's one of the parameters.
How fast do they expand? And then the other two parameters are when they appear in time.
So, I told you there's a power law that is the number of hard steps makes them appear later
in time more rapidly according to a power law. So, a power law has two parameters and has the power
and has a constant. And so, these are the three parameters that we can fit to data.
So, the power comes from the history of life on earth. That is, the timing of when life appeared
on earth and how much time we seem to have left from now include and other data we have suggests
there's roughly six hard steps on earth, therefore a power of six, roughly somewhere between three
and 12 or something, but roughly a power of six. The constant of the power law comes from our current
date because we are a random sample of when an advanced civilization appears. That is, we're not
advanced enough to become grabby yet, but if we do so, it'll be within a million years or so.
So, million years. Which is relatively short time on the scale of 14 billion years. So,
relatively short time from now, we will either become grabby or not, but that makes our data
random sample from when these things happen. So, that gives us the constant in front of the power
law. So, we have the constant in front of the power law, we have the power of the power law,
and all we need is the speed of expansion and then we've got the whole model.
So, how can we get the speed of expansion? Well, if you run this model and simulate it, you find
that when civilizations are born and they look in the universe, we ask, can they see other
civilizations in the universe? And what we find is, if they expand slowly when they're born and
they look out, they see lots of other civilizations. Huge, you know, spherical volumes in the sky,
much bigger than the full moon, full of aliens. Spherical volumes in the sky. Well, because
they start at some point and they expand spherically away from there. Okay. And so, you would look in
the sky and you basically see vast spheres of alien civilizations. If everybody grew slowly,
that's what the typical civilization would see. Okay. But if they grow very fast, most of them
won't see any others when they're born because they don't see them until they're almost there.
Because there's a selection effect, you couldn't appear within the volume of a different alien
civilization because they would preclude you. That is, if they had born and using the volume,
you would no longer be able to evolve there, at least if they so chose. So, the fact that we
don't see any aliens in our sky is the evidence that they must be expanding in a very fast speed,
say roughly half the speed of light, or even faster, which is extremely fast.
Explains why we wouldn't see them coming until they're actually here.
Until they're nearly here, but it might, I mean, it might be millions of years before
they're here that you can see them, but still, at a typical birth date, you won't see them yet.
Right. Okay. And now, what is this, what is this model? Explain, Austin, is this, there's no video?
There's a video farther down. There you go. Yeah, that's the video.
The following is a simulation of the gravity aliens model of alien civilizations. Civilizations
are born and then expand outward at a constant speed. A spherical region of space is shown.
By the time we get to 13.8 billion years, this fear will be. So, this is, you know, a random place
in space. Civilizations appear, they grow, and then they meet each other and then eventually
the volume is full. And so, the upper right hand corner, you can see the date of the simulation.
So, we're past our current date now. Okay. And it's showing that the universe is expanding
and counts how many of them. We're just going to see the same thing again, but now we can see
through the volumes, maybe see what's going on. So, you can see up on the upper right,
we're four today at the moment, the universe is expanding. You show how many civilizations there
are. There's roughly, you know, four times 10 to the eight galaxies in this volume. So, it's a very
large region of space and then it's all full. So, that's the idea. Okay. So, it's a relatively
simple model. Things just appear at random times and then they expand at a certain same speed.
But the time at which they appear goes as this power law. That's the key thing here, right?
Right. At the beginning, hardly anything was happening and later till the end, everything
was just going fast. Everything goes crazy. Right. Okay. Now, what makes a civilization
grabby? So, the definition of grabby is that it expands and changes the appearance of the volume
it's in so that you wouldn't, you would notice it. That's the key idea. Now, we could ask,
why would that happen? And, you know, in some sense, you could just imagine it's like life on
Earth. Just once there's some competition of different parts trying to colonize things,
eventually it all gets colonized. We will, in our future, perhaps face a choice to become
grabby or not. And that may illuminate better the issues involved. So, if you just imagine
technology is arbitrarily getting improved, then eventually people could leave here and go places
and eventually they would then, you know, compete to grab things and when they grab things, they'd
use them in some way and then they would change them. And that would just be a naturally way
that they could become grabby. Of course, they have to be capable enough to actually
do interstellar travel, which we are not yet. But, you know, within a million years,
it seems like we would. Yeah. So, the simplest argument for being grabby is just to say,
if technology and abilities just keep improving, then eventually there'll be a point when
interstellar travel is possible and then it would be done and then people would move in
different directions and then they'd land somewhere and they'd colonize that and grow there and
expand out. So, just in the way, you know, life expands across the Earth when it's possible,
then it would, life would expand through the universe. Now, of course, you know,
there's that prerequisite, you have to be advanced enough to be able to do interstellar
travel and then you have to not be dead at that point. Right. That's important.
And you have to allow it. So, I actually think it's not clear what fraction of them will allow.
I think there may be, in fact, most civilizations don't allow it. That's a plausible
possibility. But even so, the universe is big enough that some of them will,
and so the grabby aliens will. So, the key idea is you start out as a quiet civilization
and then eventually have the choice to become loud. And there's this key question of the ratio
between the quiet and the loud. What fraction of quiet eventually give rise to allow?
And that fraction matters for two different things. One is our future.
If, say, only one in a thousand quiet become loud, then until we know otherwise, that's the
best estimate for our choice was that only one in a thousand chance we would become loud.
And the ratio also matters for SETI, the search for extraterrestrial intelligence.
This statistical model I was just telling you about, we can fit each of these parameters to
data. And I didn't tell you the actual final numbers, which are roughly, loud alien civilizations
appear roughly once per million galaxies. And right now is sort of the middle of the distribution
of when they appear. And if we start to expand at the speed, half the speed of light, like the
rest of them are, then we would meet them in roughly a billion years. So that's the answers.
But those are the statistics for the loud ones. But if there are a ratio of quiet to loud, then
the higher that ratio is, the closer is the nearest quiet one. Because we know the loud,
the nearest loud one is like once per million galaxies away. But if, say, there was a million
to one ratio of quiet to loud, well, now the nearest quiet one might be in our galaxy.
Whereas if it's only a 10 to one ratio, you see the nearest one is one in 100,000 galaxies away,
which is a long way away. Yes. It seems like if we were to become that advanced and be able to
achieve interstellar transportation, it seems like we would be, based on what we are like now,
we would become a loud civilization, because that's just human nature now. We expand,
we influence, we grab things and the way economics are involved. But there are contrary forces at
play. And so that's worth thinking through. So as you know, the world is pretty integrated at the
moment. It's, once upon a time, empires were separated across the globe and didn't interact very
much. Distances were too far to communicate or travel. But as we've made travel and communication
easier, the world has become more integrated over the last century. Right. That integration has made
an integrated economy we trade across the globe and integrated society, people meet and interact
across the globe and create communities across the globe. And the size of nation and empires
has also been increasing over centuries. That is, we now have things like the European Union,
large coordination of nations on large scales. Now, for a long time, people have thought,
doesn't that mean we'll have a world government soon? Won't we merge these into an even larger
unit? And people have been concerned about that and wary of that. And so far we haven't.
But what they haven't noticed is that we have created something like a world mob or world community,
which we did not have a century ago. So if you look at many different areas of regulation,
say nuclear power or medical ethics or organ sales or electromagnetic spectrum or
plane safety or things like that, it turns out that the world does it pretty similar everywhere.
So we have a world community that talks to each other about these things,
and people want to be respected in those world communities. And there's some conformity pressures
in those world communities. And those conformity pressures basically induce a pretty high level
of convergence of regulation all around the world. It was especially dramatic in COVID,
if you recall at the beginning of COVID. At the very beginning, the usual health experts had
their usual recommendations, which were against mass and against travel restrictions. And then
elites around the world talked about the subject a lot and came to a different conclusion. And then
the whole world did it the different way. That is almost everywhere, people follow the new
consensus about how to treat COVID, which was different than what the elite consensus had been
a few months before, because we just have this large world community where people talk a lot,
and then they feel some social pressures to go along with what everybody else thinks
in the way that most communities do. But now we have a world level community. We have world level
communities on many kinds of topics, especially with regulation and other sorts of business
practices, where we have a whole world where we do things together in that way. And I think a lot
of people like that. That is, instead of having a world in great at war, first world people like
that, right? Instead of a world at war and in conflict around the world, we have a world where
we have a lot more peace because we talk things out and decide together rather than fighting
and competing them out. And that has been going on for the last century, and I think we have to
predict that will continue. And so the obvious prediction is that we will have even stronger
world communities that limit variation even more in the future. We may have a stronger world
government. We may not, but we will have the stronger world community, and we will correctly
credit it and maybe incorrectly also for many advances like dealing with global warming or
dealing with inequality or dealing with overfishing. That is, these world communities have been trying
to tackle those sorts of problems, and they have often had success. So I think over the coming
centuries, we will have a more strongly integrated world community that likes the fact that they
can talk together and decide what to do and in fact prevent destructive competition that they
don't like, i.e., making the regulations everywhere in the world the same, including preventing war.
And that's the near-term future that we should expect given recent trends. But now project that
forward and imagine the point in time a few centuries from now when interstellar travel becomes
possible. And imagine the choice to allow that. People will know that as soon as they allow an
interstellar colony to leave Earth and go off to another star, that will be the end of this era
when we could all talk and decide together and exert enough social pressure to make sure we
all do it together the same way. Once you send those colonies out, they are beyond your control
to regulate. You cannot stop their competition and you cannot stop their evolution. They will
evolve and become strange things. So one of the things I think over the next few centuries people
will like is that they will prevent evolution. They will prevent our descendants from changing
to become strange, descendant creatures. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Explain that again,
that last part. Why would they want to stop evolution? Why would they want to stop us from
evolving? So you're saying they would want to stop us from becoming different? Yes.
So I mean, as a futurist, there have been many conversations over the last few decades about
the possibility of, say, genetic engineering or other sorts of changes to people, including
artificial intelligence. And a consistent theme is a fear, even horror, of the changes that might
happen and the ways that our descendants might be weird. People have been pretty against allowing
substantial genetic engineering to make our descendants genetically different. They are wary
of allowing AI descendants to be mentally different. And they are often just wary of, say,
population competition. That is, people have often been worried about overpopulation.
And one of the fears they've had is that even if most places limit their population,
the few places that don't eventually dominate the population. And so people have wanted to
and talked about having regulation of fertility to prevent overpopulation,
which is competition by population size. So all of these themes together are showing
awareness of allowing evolution, of allowing our descendants to become different from us.
That is, we are human in a certain way and we like being human and we are wary that our descendants
might just not be very human. They could have very different mental styles that are in conflict
with ours. And that scares people. But when we have this world community, they will just stop
those things that they don't like. Just like today, we have basically stopped nuclear power
of the sort that scared people. So are you saying if we did become a well-integrated world community
or if there was one world governance somehow that we would decide not to become interplanetary
or interstellar? The key choice at that point would be to continue to have a unified world
community. Now, by world, I mean the whole solar system. So within a few centuries,
they would be spread across the solar system, but still the solar system small enough to allow
this centralization and coordination. Our solar system. So if we had communities on Mars,
all these plants, we would still be able to control it within the sun.
Anything in the solar system, you can throw a rock and smash it if this behaves.
Wow. So the solar system is still small enough to be within the reach of central
control. So if we continue to enjoy this world community by which where we have reduced war
and conflict and harmful competition and things we are scared of, like genetic engineering or
nuclear power or whatever, by having this global community that agrees on what things to stop.
And then at one point, we have the choice to send out an interstellar colony and we know the
consequences of that. That will be a hard choice, I predict. That is, the consequence of allowing
interstellar colony is that we no longer regulate behavior out there. We'd be just letting go.
They would allow to do whatever they want. They would allow to change however they want,
to adopt technologies however they want, and then they could come back here and test us.
Contest us. Contest here. Control here, right? Whatever they develop out there,
whatever advances they produce out there, they can come back here.
Wow. And the question is, would we then allow that? So I can see it going either way,
but the point is, I can see it going either way. Right. It's not a crazy thing for people to want
to do to enjoy to continue their community that they understand, unlike versus allowing
strange evolution and competition and perhaps fierce unchecked competition.
Right. So the idea of panspermia is that a rock came here a long time ago containing
genetic material from somewhere else in the universe and then we derived from that.
I've heard you explain, even in more depth, the idea that when the universe was created,
the same life forms or biology that was on one rock expanded into everywhere.
So that the idea is, if there are aliens out there that are expanding or not,
that they all came from the same source. So the motivation here is that the simple
grabby aliens model we just described, again, has the nearest aliens being a million galaxies away,
right? Once per million galaxies. So it has almost no prospect of any aliens nearby under
that simple model. But you might ask, well, but couldn't there be aliens closer than that?
Might that not make sense? And you could ask me, try to come up with a story where that makes sense.
And then I realize I can, as the simple model has things appearing independently, randomly,
and independently. But what if they appear in a correlated way? What if clumps appear together?
That would then allow the nearest aliens to us to be much closer. Even if on average,
aliens appear only once per million galaxies, if we're here and they're correlated, then they
could be here too. So the question is, what sort of correlation process could there be that would
make aliens appear together in clumps rather than appear independently around the universe?
And panspermia is a process that could create that correlation. That's why panspermia is
interesting in this context, is it will allow there to be aliens much closer
than they would otherwise be. So the panspermia story would be that life appeared somewhere
on another planet, not Earth. And then that actually allows life to have had a much longer
time to evolve. So if you actually look at the earliest life we can see on Earth, it looks
really complicated, making it hard to believe that evolution could have produced that complexity
in such a short time. So postulating on Eden, another planet before Earth, gives a much longer
time scale for much simpler life to have slowly gotten more complicated on Eden. And then maybe the
life we see on the beginning of Earth is like halfway down the whole path. So it jumped to another
place to evolve? Right. So it wouldn't do it on purpose, of course. But as you know,
rocks are falling from the sky all the time. And when rocks hit the ground, they often knock
rocks from the ground back up into the sky. Right. And inside those rocks is often life.
So that's the obvious route by which life could move around in the universe is in rocks. Now,
at the beginning of our solar system, when the solar system started was born in a nursery,
where say a thousand other stars were all being born in the same place at the same time.
And at the beginning of our solar system, there were lots of rocks flying back and forth.
You know, enormous numbers of rocks flying back and forth in that early solar system. So
if a rock came from outside that nursery into that nursery, it would have plenty of opportunity
not only to land places, but to get smashed and knocked around and spread around. So
it would be plausible that life that seeded earth at that early point of time
in our stellar nursery would have also seeded many other planets in that nursery at the same time.
So now we would have the scenario life appeared on some Eden many billions of years ago,
maybe lasted five billion years there. Then a rock, you know, hit that flu, maybe that rock
drifted for millions of years, actually. And then eventually landed in our stellar nursery,
where it seeded not just earth, but many other planets. And then that makes the correlation. So
these stellar nursery only lasts for, you know, a few million years, and then it drifts apart.
These planets that were all born together drift away and they basically form a ring around the
galaxy. And we can actually find them in the sky. That is, they all have the same mixture of
chemicals because the stellar nursery was an integrated mixture of chemicals. So they just
all have the same proportion of chemicals that you can see in a stellar spectrum. So we can
actually find them in the sky, find our stellar siblings, and they could find us. So if life started
on a whole bunch of planets that was seeded in this nursery, then over the last four billion years,
they would have all been trying to advance and evolve. And if the advancement of life from
that stage wasn't terribly hard, then it might be that other planets also went a long way down that
path. And that one of them might have reached our level before us. And then there could be aliens
nearby. This would be the best explanation for like the modern UFOs that we see today, right?
Right. If you're trying to, if you're trying to ask how could UFOs be aliens, how could that make any
sense at all, then this is the best story I can come up with. Because remember, otherwise, if they're,
you know, once per million galaxies, they're just crazy far away and, you know, they would just be
very unlikely for them to be anywhere near here. This puts them close. Now, but we can go farther
in trying to come up with a scenario to explain say UFOs by thinking more about the scenario I
just described. So if another alien civilization appeared as a panspermia sibling, there's another
thing that we know about it, which is that it did not get grabby, right? Because otherwise,
our galaxy would be full of them, right? So we also know the timing would be they would have
appeared, say roughly 100 million years ago would be sort of a random time, not not in the last
thousand years at all 100 million years would be roughly when they would have appeared. So
the scenario would be they appeared 100 million years ago somewhere in our galaxy. And then
in that 100 million years, they did not colonize the galaxy, they did not expand
and things. So they must be one of these civilizations that chose not to expand,
they chose to prevent it and succeeded at that. So you have to realize that's actually a pretty
impressive achievement. There are big civilization and if any one part of them ever left with an
interstellar colony, that's the end, the era of this unified thing ends and competition returns. So
for 100 million years, they managed to stop that.
Right. Now, couldn't an explanation for if there are aliens here, if these UFOs are aliens,
couldn't they just be sort of like hall monitors or security guards, making sure that we could
just list a large number of logical possibilities, but it seems more useful to walk through what we
do know about them and then collect those implications because we can draw some conclusions
from the things we do know to limit the space of theories. So one thing we know is
they did not colonize the universe. Therefore, they had a rule that they successfully enforced
for 100 million years against that in their civilization. So that's the thing we know about
them, right? We know how old they are and we know they've chosen not to allow expansion.
And then we know that they could find us, that they could easily see where their
Pennsylvania siblings were and they could look at them in telescopes and track them.
So they could have been tracking us all that time. And we know that they would know that
we threatened to break their rule. They've had this rule against expansion and we don't
have them been told about the rule. And if they did nothing, we might well break their rule.
And then the thing they were trying to prevent would happen, right?
The universe gets colonized nearby by something else. So that creates a plausible motive for
them to be here. Right. So I mean, the Keith question is like, if they've had this rule
against expansion, that's probably a rule against a lot of travel too, right? They probably prevented
people from traveling very far from their home. It would be a risk because every traveler becomes
a risk to create this interstellar explosion, right? So now we have a reason why they would
want to be here and take a chance, an unusual chance to actually allow someone to come here
because this is a high priority. Like we are at risk of breaking their rule, a rule they've
kept successful for 100 million years. And a rule that's obviously very important to them because
they've paid large costs to keep it, right? So already we can see that we have a reason why
they would be here and why they wouldn't be everywhere else, those are the key things we're
trying to explain. And another thing we conclude is they didn't just kill us.
That would have been really possible, right? So they must feel some affiliation,
some reluctance to just kill us. So they have some other plan to prevent us from
expanding other than just killing us. Right. Which goes against, well, didn't Stephen Hawking have a
famous quote on this subject about another civilization coming here? He said if it did come
here, it would be the end of us. They would use farm us or they would consume us or something like
that. Are you aware of- Right, right. But it's certainly, if you just took random past, you know,
connect places when humans met each other in the past as your data set, you might well say
those don't usually go well. Right. Which is fine. But we know more things here, you see.
So we aren't just making an analogy to a random past earth thing. We are drawing step by step
conclusions from the things we know. That is, you know, we know that they would be a
panspermia sibling. Therefore, they would be, even though they're near here,
the nearest other alien could be a million galaxies away. Right. So they're near here,
but hardly anything else is. Right. So it's not a galaxy populated, full of alien civilizations.
It's just them and us and maybe one other or something like that. That would be all there is.
Do you- How deep do you- I know you're a very science-based, analytical, cold, calculated
person when it comes to this stuff. But how much attention do you pay to the stories of
interactions with other beings that are accounted for? I mean, there's books and
movies and documentaries about this kind of stuff. How much, like UFOs and nukes being around nuclear
weapons, shutting them down. There's a famous story of a UFO landing in Africa in front of a
school and communicating with children telepathically about the environment and the dangers of
technology. What do you make of those stories? And how much credibility do you give them?
So this entire topic is in disrepute in general among elites, elite academics and elites of all
sorts. So if I'm going to venture into this subject, I want to do it very carefully so that my
thoughts won't be wasted. If I am sloppy about this, then I will be tainted with the same disrepute
that everybody else has been who touches the subject. So I'm very eager to be methodical
and careful here in exactly how I do this. So that means I want to sort of logically lay out
the space of possibilities and then lay out sort of the general inference task and then place myself
somewhere in that set of tasks and say which things I'm doing, which things I'm not. I'm not
kind of presenting myself an expert on all the tasks that are relevant when thinking about this
topic, but I will venture into some of them and say for some of them, I have relevant expertise
and I will speak to those. Okay, so first of all, we just say, look, there are things people
think they see, right? And they have to have some explanation and we can categorize the kind of
explanations they could be, right? So for example, they could be aliens, sure, or they could be just
some other hidden earth organization who has capabilities beyond what they've advertised.
Or it could all just be mistakes and delusions, drunk drunkards and blowhards and, you know,
people trying to get attention, right? Or there could be some organized hoax behind it all.
Somebody's like planning and purposely may having people lie and putting things up there
that look like things and just trying on purpose to just think of something, right? Right. Those are
the four main categories of explanation, right? And we're interested in judging which is the truth.
So in general, what we want is what's called a Bayesian analysis here. That is, for each of
these categories of explanation, we want what's called a likelihood and we want a prior. A prior
is what's the chance of that scenario, ignoring all this evidence, just a prior, what would be the
chance you would think of something like this happening. And the likelihood is given that this
theory was true. How likely is it that you'd see the sort of things you'd see? That's, and then you
basically, once you have a likelihood and a prior for each of these, then you multiply those two and
you do a weighted average and you get your posterior, I see which theory you believe. So
that's our task. We need likelihoods and we need priors. Okay. So I am more of an expert on the
priors. That is, the likelihoods have to involve looking at these cases in particular, in some
detail, right? Because we're talking about how likely is it that these theories would account for
the particular things people see. Whereas the prior is just about what kind of things could have
happened in the universe, what kind of things do ever happen. You know, that's, and so my expertise
as someone who's done physics and astrophysics and economics, et cetera, puts me, I can speak to
the prior at least, at least for some of these, and less so to the likelihoods. Now I'll just say,
I've looked at enough, you know, UFO reports to say it's more compelling than the data I can find
for fairies and ghosts. I go look up online, what's the best evidence for fairies and ghosts?
They don't impress me very much by comparison. Okay. I can also say in the past, there were
things that were equally similarly disreputed to UFOs that in fact, turn out to be true.
So once asteroids, people thought rocks falling from the sky was crazy.
Ball lightning is something people thought was pretty crazy, except they made it in the lab and
they decided it must be true, even though the actual like evidence of it outside the lab still
looks pretty weak, but they made it in the lab. So they figured, okay, I guess that must be true.
And then there were these very high level lightning, pink lightning, that looks kind of
like an octopus that people said they saw a long time, the first pilot said they saw and people
thought that was crazy. And then a couple of decades ago, NASA took pictures, they said, oh,
like, okay, I guess it's real. So that would be my context is to say, like, just because this
is in disrepute doesn't mean it couldn't be because we've often thought things were crazy and then
changed our mind about them. So and that, you know, the actual evidence I can see, I think,
again, it's better than ghosts and fairies. Okay. Okay. But how much better is what you need an
expert to go into those details for? But what I do want to say is the prior is high enough
that you should be taking the data seriously. So think about a murder trial. Okay. Okay.
In a murder trial, they claim a murdered B, right? Now, if the prior on that was crazy low,
you would just say, no, that's crazy. I'm not even going to think about that, right?
So how low is the prior in a murder trial? Well, let's say roughly on average, one out of a thousand
people's killed. And they might have 1000 other people nearby who could plausibly be the one who
did it. Okay. So I'd say the priors roughly one in a million for any given murder accusation. Okay.
So a one in a million priors, something that evidence can typically overcome. That's not
so crazy unlikely. It's not like one in a quadrillion prior, or you'd say, you know, go away, that's
silly. It's high enough that you got to take it seriously. So my rough guess for the UFOs is
aliens priors roughly one in a thousand. Now, that's quite a bit stronger than typical murder
trial, which means you've got to look at the evidence. You can't just dismiss it just like
you would in a murder trial. Now, if you have an accusation to murder trial, you don't stop there.
You don't just say, okay, you accused, and so they're guilty, right? You have to look at the
evidence, right? Yeah. And so similarly here, just because this is in the realm of high enough
plausible prior probability that it could be true, doesn't make it true. It just means you've got to
look at the evidence. So I could walk through my calculation for one in a thousand prior,
but I might also just mention one of the other categories I think hasn't even higher prior,
which is the hoax category that is the US government and other governments have at times
organized big hoaxes of capabilities of the sort. And I would give that a 1% chance.
That's still like 99% chance. No, right? But I'd still say that's the sort of thing that
does happen at times. And so you got to take that seriously as well as a possible explanation.
And then again, it comes down to looking at the data, like how plausible is it that, you know,
they could pull it off for the particular things we see. I'm not very impressed with these delusion,
you know, mistakes theory. That seems to me, it's just harder to account for all these stories
as all delusions and mistakes. Something more systematic would seem to be going on, I would
judge, but again, there's several other candidates. What do you think the probability is that
there are private organizations, aerospace organizations, companies that hold information,
knowledge or technology that they are withholding from the public or academia that could explain
some of these anti-gravity sightings? I mean, if you combine a theory of saying
there really are aliens, and then some people really got that technology, now you're basically
combining the two of these theory categories, right? If you just want to say there are advanced
organizations out there that have advanced technology, they didn't get it from aliens,
they just made it up themselves, then it's hard to understand how they could be much more advanced
than everybody else, because we know a lot about technology and how it advances in the world and
how it happens by diffusion and people hearing of other things, so we just almost never see
enormous advances by some sides compared to others, right? It's usually within a range of the kinds
of things we expect, so the kinds of abilities reported for UFOs do seem to me substantially
beyond the sort of things you might expect at least for several decades ago. Now, more recently,
there's this technology whereby you might say, send a laser to some place in space in the sky
in the atmosphere and say, heat it up, and then make a little plasma there, and then be able to
draw that, and then basically, like on TV screen, draw an image in space and then move it around,
you could move an image that you drew around very quickly, so that seems to be an ability that's
near feasible now that could explain UFOs, but that wouldn't explain UFOs seen in 1960 or something.
Right. That would have to only be explaining very recent UFOs, because that's a very recent
capability that apparently people have now, is the ability to draw. Like a laser pointer.
Right, basically, but except it doesn't go against a wall, it stops at a place in space
and draws something there. That's exactly how some of these pilots have been describing
the things that they've been seeing, like Commander Fravor and Ryan Gray.
So from very recent observations, that becomes a more plausible story,
but not for more ancient observations. Aerospace organizations similar to
Lockheed Martin containing some sort of technology that could explain this stuff would have to be
directly, it would have to be because they discovered some sort of alien technology,
it wouldn't be something that was just created here on Earth.
If it was far more advanced than the stuff that everybody else has.
Which it is, right? I mean, I don't know.
If it's true, if it is true, it is clearly way more advanced than the kind of propulsion that we
have. So I didn't finish describing the most plausible scenario. So there's another thing
we know about UFOs that you would need to explain to explain UFOs as aliens.
It's a crucial thing many people have noted, which is
they could have either been completely invisible or completely visible. Those were,
I mean, 100 million, you know, year more advanced civilization than ours.
They could have just been completely dark orbiting and seeing everything without
being at all visible, or they could have just shown up on the White House law,
as they say, and just been completely visible. So apparently they are not doing either of those
things. So we need an explanation for why they're doing this weird thing of hanging
out at the edge of visibility to sort of make themselves be somewhat visible,
but not more visible. That's weird. So, you know, if I weren't trying to explain that part,
I might give a higher prior to UFOs as aliens, but I need to explain that part too.
Because again, the other weird thing about aliens is like,
why aren't they in the rest of the universe, right? Why didn't they take over the galaxy?
Why are they only here and nowhere else? That's the first thing to explain. And so we
postulated for that, that they have this rule against expansion. And then that's why they're here.
But then we also need to explain why are they hanging out at the edge of visibility,
not making themselves aware to everybody. Right. But also not completely hiding.
Exactly. Right. Why be partially visible? What's the point? Right. Because they clearly
could have chosen anything else if they wanted. So we want to explain that and we want to do that
in the context of what we know of their motives to be here, right? They're here to convince us
not to expand without killing us, right? Because they could have killed us. Those are the other
things we know. So they somehow are going to use this method of hanging out the edge of our visibility
to convince us not to expand and not kill us. That's the purpose of this. So how does that work?
So the thing I notice is that humans have domesticated other animals primarily by
being the top of their pecking order. If we make dogs do what we want,
it's because we are the top dog. Okay. We go into a pack of animals and we convince them
we are in their status hierarchy and we are at the top. And that's how they do what we say.
That's how we domesticate other animals. And it's how we domesticate ourselves.
That is, all through history, emperors have convinced people to obey the emperor because
they showed they were the top person in the society. They had a big crown and a big palace
and a big army. Right. And they displayed themselves as the top of the pecking order
to convince others to go along, right? So the hypothesis is that's what the aliens want to do
here. They want to be the top of our pecking order. How do they do that? They show that they are
better than us. They show very impressive abilities, but not violent confrontation with us. They are
not hurting us, but they are better than us. Just like you can't really make a bunch of
dogs obey you if you kill half of them. Right. Okay. You have to be in their tribe, but they're not
being physically threatening. Right. Not threatening, but better. Better. Clearly better. Right.
And we should be smart enough to figure out why they're here and what their agenda is.
They don't even have to say anything. They just have to show themselves as very impressive,
better creatures nearby. Now, you might think, well, yeah, but why don't they
show a little more? What's the harm in that? Why would it be a problem if they were to
give us a little more detail? And then you realize, well, think of how much humans have hated other
humans for pretty minor differences between human civilizations. Right. Right. Right. Humans are
pretty similar to each other. Nevertheless, we find these reasons to hate each other based on
what to an alien must seem like a pretty minor difference. Right. So they would know that. They
would know that if they showed us details of their lives and history, something about it
could really put us off. Right. Maybe they eat babies. They don't think that's a problem,
but we hate eating babies. Maybe they have tentacles. We hate tentacles. Who knows, right?
Point is they don't want to take that chance. So they're just going to not ever show us much
detail about us, about them, but just clearly show they exist and that they are much more
capable than us and that they're peaceful. That's it. That's all they have to do. And
that's a very simple strategy they could have approved from the beginning. So remember another
constraint in this whole process is they're scared of any expedition getting out of control
and, you know, ending their era of no interstellar colonization. Right. So when they authorize this
one expedition, not only do they only authorize it, but they have to ask, how are we going to
keep control of it? How do we limit its behavior? How do we make sure it only does the thing we
want it to do? So they have, they would want to pick a very clear strategy, a simple strategy,
that they could authorize it to do and only do not be creative and come up with a bunch of
new ideas when it got here. I don't, that's taking too many chances, right? They want to say, let's
have a plan. They're going to go there, execute the plan. That's all they're going to be authorized
to do. That's all they're going to be capable of doing, hopefully. And then we are taking the
minimal risk with this expedition out there to, to, you know, go convince these people not to
expand. Right. And so you have to think what would be a plan they could think of ahead of time
without knowing much about us. Like they can't wait till I get here and like learn a lot and then
make a plan based on that. Cause that would give too much discretion to the local team.
They say, from a distance, what can we know that will make a plan that they could execute?
It seems, it's interesting though, like if you look just in the last 150 to 60 years,
how the stigma of the subject has become less and less.
It's still pretty high. It's, it's, but now that the government is talking about it,
the New York Times is talking about it. It's still pretty high. That mean, if you
talk to other intellectuals, I think you'll find Dr. Professors of various sorts, right?
Astrophysicists, you know, let's talk to just all sorts of prestigious people. I still think
you think the stigma is still pretty high. Where does it go? If it keeps going on this trajectory
of less and less stigma, more people entertaining this conversation that you and I are having
right now and the world, everyone in every, a larger percentage of human beings on earth
being aware of this idea and being understanding it. How does that affect us?
If say the US government's new willing to flirt with the idea produced more concrete evidence
that then persuaded other people that would make a big switch. But if all they do is
just release the sort of thing they've released so far and they don't release anything more that's
more persuasive, I don't think it'll tip the balance for a long time. I mean,
it's basically just going to be the slow accumulation of more and more solid evidence that
tips the balance because people are just not that willing to accept this. So that's, but
it'll just take a long time. But of course, that's fine from the under this theory. That's fine
for the aliens. They're not in a rush. We're no, we're nowhere near threatening to do a
learner's telecolonization yet. And what would human beings do if they did discover it? Like,
if a small group of human beings discovered this somehow? Well, I mean, many people claim
they already have, right? Yeah, exactly. Small groups discover it, but they can't convince the
rest of people yet. Well, would they even want to convince them? Some do, some don't. Where would
they want to just find some economic benefit for it and try to find some leverage of competition
between nations or between it's hard to see much benefit here. I mean, the whole point is like,
look, they're not like handing out Christmas goodies or something. Yeah, but like, they're
just off in the distance being impressive. Right. But I'm saying like, if we did, if, if we did find
evidence of this, like, like the story of Bob Lazar is the most famous one of, I'm, I'm, I'm
sure, yeah, where he just claims he worked on back engineering these anti-gravity crafts and the
government had, has been, has been working on it for decades, but we haven't been able to figure
it out. And we want to use this as sort of leverage against other nations for weapons and war.
So again, there's this vast space of possibilities, but I have to sort of stay
anchored on the possibilities that make sense. Right, I understand. That I can make sense of.
So in the simple theory, the, the aliens are just here to impress us and like convince us they exist
and that we should do what they say. Under that simple theory, they don't have any particular
reason to hand out goodies to some people or to like reveal their technology to us.
Yeah, it seems kind of crazy that they would just accidentally crash their vehicle and leave it
behind. I mean, again, a hundred million years more advanced, it's like, and so we can be able to
capture. And similarly, I got to say ab, abductions still don't make that much sense in this story.
Right. What they need to do is just be visibly impressive. Why they would need to pick some
people up and like study them on a personal experience. Yeah, there would be no need for that.
Again, a hundred million more advanced, they could study us just fine from orbit. They don't
need, they wouldn't need to physically pick us up and poke us with needles. No, exactly. No,
that would be crazy. That they would, a very primitive civilization would need to do that sort
of thing. Really? So if they had a hundred million technology to, to traverse. So let's light years
to get here. They would, let's talk about what we can roughly guess about very advanced civilizations,
actually. So the first thing we should be able to guess about very advanced civilizations is they
are just artificial. Like they are made in factories. They're designed, you know, they can swap their
parts out, you know, just like we make artificial cars instead of growing horses. Right. Right.
They are just artificial creatures that that and they're, their minds are even artificially
designed. Like, and, you know, there's a new product line that comes out from some source and
they're all the same in the product line. And then they have some, they just, the modern economy
where you make things in factories and you have firms that make them at scale and distribute them,
that's the kind of way they're made and the kind of way they run everything basically. So
they aren't, you know, made, they don't reproduce with cell mitosis or whatever, the way
they found a much more effective way. Surely that's how they would be. So
they've long since become artificial. So they've long since like been able to be
any physical form they want to. It's not like they have a certain shape body that they have to fit
into a craft or something. Right. They can, they can move into any kind of body they want to make.
Right. Just like on a construction side, we make different kinds of trucks and different kinds of
shovels or whatever. It's not like the nature of a construction worker to have a certain kind of
shovel. It's like you have a bunch of different things for whatever purpose you want to make them.
Right. So there's not going to be the size of the aliens, right? Or, or even their lifespan or
how many eyes they have. None of that makes sense. They are artificial creatures who can
have as many eyes as they want to in any given circumstance. And they can add eyes and take
them away just fine. Right. Just like we can add a headlight to a car. So that's one thing,
I think we can say robustly about aliens is that they are artificial.
The other thing we might want to say depends on how much they've controlled their competition.
So, you know, they prevent interstellar colonization and they probably prevent
some other kinds of evolution. But how much evolution do they prevent? How,
how restrictive are they about their evolution? So I think we can imagine two extremes.
One extreme is they are minimally restrictive. Like they prevent people from leaving their
solar system, but most everything else inside their solar system, they just allow a relatively
free evolution and competition. Right. All they do is just prevent stuff from leaving.
Right. Under that scenario, we should expect evolutions to continue. And then we can ask,
what do we expect evolution to produce in the long run for various creatures of creatures?
Uh, the opposite extreme is where they have a very restrictive,
very centrally controlling society that has prevented most competition and evolution.
Under that other extreme, their technology may have stagnated at some point when they could no
longer, you know, innovate more because they were being so restrictive. And even worse,
their society might have come to rot. Rotting is a feature that we see consistently in large
complicated systems that humans have built and have even observed. And rotting is the sort of
thing that central control risks. And it becomes a big issue for a long-term civilization that
has maintained central control for a long time. I think most people don't know enough about rotting.
Can you give me an example of rotting in today's in our world? Awesome. Hold on. Awesome. Can you
turn the air down? It's getting hot in here. Sorry. Don't pause while he does that or?
Yeah, we can keep going. It's okay.
Unless you want to take a bathroom. Fine. Okay. So most large software systems are
these not tiny systems rot. Think of the Apple operating system or Google operating system
or the system that runs any large bank or anything like that. Large software systems over time become
harder to usefully change to become more fragile. And eventually they are thrown away and replaced
with brand new systems. This is the consistent software practice at enormous cost. If you think
of any big company, most large companies have a big software system somewhere in their process
that they developed and it's a big part of their value that they have compared to their
competitors. And all of these large software systems rot with time and are typically just
thrown away entirely and started over from scratch. This is because they're overlooked
because they're so large and complex. They are looked at carefully, but still the key thing is
the process of changing them makes them rot. So if you have a large software system and nothing
changes, then you never have to change anything. It can just keep going. But typically you're trying
to add features, the environment it's in changes, maybe the kind of hardware it connects to changes.
And so slowly over time, things are changing and you need to adapt it to those changes.
Customers may change, customer preferences,
customer desires, firmware updates, all sorts of changes. But the key thing is you have a big
complicated things and stuff is changing. So you constantly have to adapt the system to deal
with these changes. And the key thing that happens is you have dependencies between different parts
of the system. So if you don't have any dependencies, then you'll just change one part of the system
and you don't have to change anything else. But when you have dependencies, when you change one
part, you also have to change the other parts that are connected to it in a matching way.
Otherwise it's broken. And the problem is when you take a system with two parts that are connected
to each other, and that you change both parts to manage something, you tend to make those things
more fragile, that it's become harder to change in the future. This is sort of tied to what we
were talking about in the beginning of downloading books to the human brain. Right, exactly. So in
fact, the human brain rots too. Not just the cells rot, your mind rots in the sense that you start
out with what's called fluid intelligence, and you end up with what's called crystallized intelligence.
Crystallized intelligence means you know many specific things, but you can't learn new general
skills very easily, not compared to when you were young and had fluid intelligence. So your mind
over your lifetime becomes harder to usefully change. Old dogs in fact find it hard to learn
new tricks. That's actually true about brain. So human minds rot with time just like software does
and plausibly even large rule systems like legal systems or systems of organizations they rot with
time. Corporations rot, that is most corporations eventually die and are replaced by new ones,
even when they try to prevent that, it consistently happens. The only solution we've ever had as a
robust solution to rotting is dying and replacement. So human bodies rot and are replaced with new
organisms, our minds rot and die are replaced, our software has to be replaced, our firms have to be
replaced. And all at great expense, we make enormous investments in things that slowly rot and then
have to be thrown away. Now, but so far like that's been the nature of history, but now we are starting
to create global structures that we don't want to replace at a global level, like these global
communities and these global habits of regulation. And so now we're entering a new era, what happens
when the world as a whole coordinates on say how we regulate nuclear energy and nobody is allowed
to do it different. And then that system rocks with time, what will happen then? Will we be willing
to throw it out at some later point? Or will we just deal with it slowly getting less efficient?
Because like systems that rot typically can function just at a lower efficiency, like the old
software was working, it just got harder and harder to change. But you could just change it less and
gain fewer advantages from changing if you insist on sticking with it. The reason why we throw it
away is because the new thing will be cheaper and easier to change and we want to change things.
Yeah, but don't we just install like now we have these firmware updates for everything,
for all these systems are constantly being updated and that's part of the rot.
The firmware updates are part of the rot? Yes, absolutely. They are changes that are trying to
make other things fit each other. Okay. The reason why you have the firmware update is because
something changed and this is the strategy to do that. But in the process, what is becoming
crystallized or hardened or becoming, I don't know. So the key idea is that it's harder to
usefully change. So like the bits of the software don't disappear, right? They stay there, but still
it gets harder to change them. Okay. I mean, I don't know, think of the Marvel Universe or something,
right? The Marvel Universe is rotting in some sense that like they keep making new assumptions
and new characters, but they are limited in how many new things they can do because it has
to be consistent with all the old things they've done. I understand. Slowly over time, they will
be more limited what they can do in the Marvel Universe. Right. I mean, it may still be a fun
universe, but it would be, you know, but eventually it will be thrown away and replaced with other
universes, right? So what is this rot? I forgot what this was in context to. So first, it's a rot
that say the aliens would suffer if they had a central government that limited their changes.
And it's a rot that we may suffer in our future if we, you know, have a strong central government
or global mob that makes us all do everything together the same. But it's a very difficult
choice because, you know, the alternative is competition and therefore conflict. And
what do we do? Right. So say, think of nuclear power. You know, apparently we could have had
a vastly more powerful nuclear power industry than we did now. We were scared and we over-regulated,
but now we kind of over-regulated everywhere similar ways, similar degrees.
What if some place wants to not be so heavy-regulated nuclear power? Are other people going to be
scared of that? Will they allow it? Or will they just insist that everybody keep on with
the current program to prevent the things they're worried about? And that'll be true for lots of
different ways we're organized. So the key thing to notice is up until recently, the world has
competition at the highest level. Empires competed, species competed, right? The fundamental thing
that happened was empires rose and fell. And empires fell in substantial part because they
rotted. But humanity could go on because humanity wasn't tied to any one empire.
We were the thing that lasted past the empires. But once humanity becomes tied to an empire,
and then the empire starts to rot, then what happens then? And that would be like a world
civilization, right, with being tied to. With where we agree together to do things the same way and
collect more and more rules about such things. And that begins to rot. What happened? The question
is what happens then? Yes. Are we willing to allow competition enough to drastically replace
big parts of such things? Or do we just slowly get less competent and less capable?
You've mentioned in the past that you plan on doing something with your body after your physical
being passes away. Right. So I am a cryonics customer. Cryonics, yes. I'm holding this
neck tag here up if you're not watching. And basically, it says that if there's a medical
emergency, they should call this number. And the plan is then to freeze my brain and liquid nitrogen.
And once it's frozen, it won't change basically for centuries if they keep it frozen. And then
that would give me a chance to come back as a brain emulation later, if the world I describe in the
age of M comes to pass. So that's a chance I have at immortality. I'd say another thing we can know
about advanced civilizations is they are immortal. But immortality doesn't necessarily mean what you
think it does. The civilizations are immortal. And entities within them are, in principle,
immortal. That is, immortality is just another robust feature of advanced civilizations.
Meaning their consciousness is immortal. It's capable of being immortal. That's the key distinction.
Being immortal. Today, houses and cars are immortal in the sense that if you keep
maintaining them and repairing them, they can go on indefinitely. But we don't always choose
to keep repairing and maintaining them. That is, they over time become more expensive to maintain.
And the value goes down because new things are more competitive or more capable compared to them.
So that will also happen for our descendants who are immortal or aliens who are immortal.
That is, in principle, they could last forever, but it will cost to keep them going and their value
may decline because new things are just more capable than they are. So that would be an
issue for me wanting to be immortal. That is, they could bring me back in the future,
but will they? And even if they do, how long would they keep me? And so that's an issue I
describe in my book, The Age of M, about a world where everything is in principle immortal,
but it's still a matter of choice. Right. Right. What would be the incentive to bring you back?
Or to keep me back if I had been brought back temporarily. Right. This kind of is the same
thing as why would aliens abduct human beings and poke them, prod them to try to study them.
What's the point? Right. Because it's so out of date.
Now, I do expect that because there are so few of us cryonics customers,
like only maybe 200 people have been frozen so far. That's it. Maybe, you know,
3,000 people are signed up for it. Wow. Even though it's had free national publicity for many,
for a half century. So if it, unfortunately, if it continues that very few people do this,
then the few of us who are available later on would be celebrities of sorts. And so
they would almost surely bring back the few of us. However, if what I prefer is like a large
fraction of the earth's population were crying as customers, well, now it's much more of a question.
How many of those billions would be brought back? If you're relying on the generosity of the future
to help your future self out, you may be taking a needlessly large chance, you know,
what we often do is protect ourselves in the future. That is, when you retire, you often retire on
the basis of assets you've saved yourself rather than throwing yourself on the mercy of your grandchildren
or something to help you when you retire. Right. So similarly, I might think, well,
the best thing would be for cryonics patients to pay for their own revival to set aside assets
that are available later to cover their own case. And this is not done? It is often done.
Oh, it is often done. Yes. Oh, wow. What type of people typically do
this cryonics brain freezing? Do you have any friends that do it?
Well, yes, but it's a very small fraction. As I told you, there's only like 200 people have been
frozen so far and maybe 3,000 people have signed up or something so far. It's a very tiny fraction.
So basically, first of all, contrarians, right? Yeah, obviously. You have to be willing to sort
of put up with the social pressure that disapproves and do it anyway. What is the process like? So
they actually take your brain out of your skull and they put it in like a bag or they freeze it
in carbonite? Like, what does this look like? So the usual approach today, there's the option of
whole body where they would freeze your whole body or there's their head only where they would just
freeze your head and not freeze the body. With all of this? Yeah, with everything. So I mean,
the key thing is they're just trying to get you cold fast without too much damage happening while
they get you cold. So then the main thing is just they basically pumped antifreeze through your
blood veins. Okay. Right. And so they don't want to rip off any skin or anything. They just want to
pump you as fast as they can with antifreeze. So the least amount of damage. Right, with the
least amount of damage so that you get cold as fast as possible. And then they just want to preserve
you in that state where again, so the usual approach is through liquid nitrogen. Now,
there is an alternative technological approach that seems feasible, which is sometimes called
plastination basically, where they would fill your body with plastic in essence and sort of freeze
the chemical reactions that way, not just by being cold, but by just basically putting stuff in
between stuff that prevents the reactions. And then that could in principle be preserved at
room temperature, which would make it easier to preserve these things. But the problem is that
that's a whole separate technology that would have to be developed. There's just too few customers
here to justify having separate technologies. Many of the customers today would not like the
plastic approach because they're hoping that their current bodies will be revived. I'm skeptical
about that. But again, the key problem is just not enough customers here. And I mean, honestly,
I think this is a terrible shame in the sense that it seems to me that most people today don't need
to die. That is the main risk about Chronix is that these organizations can't last because they
don't have enough customers. So if they had lots of customers, this would just be much cheaper
and more reliable. So if millions of people use this stuff, then the price would come way down
and the chance of you not surviving would go way down. What is the name of the company that does
this? Is there are several? There are several. There are several. Okay. My my my supplier is called
Alcor, but Alcor. Okay. There's also Cryonix Institute, which is an alternative and several
others. But again, the key thing is they just hardly have any customers. What is the price of
doing this? I'm sure it ranges. A few tens of thousands of dollars up depending on how much
you want and which firm you go with. Right. Basically, it's quite accessible via life insurance
for most people, the first world people. Right. Wow. So an interesting comparison that often
strikes me is there are some people who, when they die, have their ashes thrown into space.
Into space. Yes. Some people are turned into ashes and have their ashes thrown into space.
And beautiful. That costs a similar amount. And a similar number of people do it.
That's pretty wild. It is. So and that causes a lot less marital problems.
So Cryonix customers do actually have a lot of problems where their family and friends or
spouses are upset that they are going to use Cryonix. Interesting. And people are not upset
about ashes into space. Isn't that weird? It's a similar amount of money. But I mean,
so obviously one would seem to have a chance of working ashes into space is not going to bring
you back. But it's in fact the fact that you think it might work that bothers people.
That is, it's like betrayal and abandonment. Like you're willing to leave them to go to
this future world without them. Right. Right. That bothers people. Whereas ashes into space
doesn't. So that's one of the main obstacles to Cryonix is often people who are inclined in
that direction, face resistance from family and friends who not only find it weird, but find it
like it's somewhat emotionally threatening in the sense that you're willing to leave them.
You know, somewhere else. Yeah. No, it's I mean, the idea of wanting to preserve your body
after you die to be saved for potentially thousands of years to be brought back by a
future civilization. It's it goes back to something that you've talked about before,
of wanting to create more descendants of yourself or more versions of yourself to last
into the future. How how does that idea relate to us compared to potential alien civilizations?
The main way in the past, our ancestors have influenced the future is via descendants.
Right. Even in the last 10,000 years with a lot of cultural evolution, still I'd say
the main way most people have influenced the future is via descendants.
That's because biological and cultural evolution have just been powerful forces in the world.
So the question is for any one person, how how do they want to be involved with that process?
That is, do you want to influence the future? And if so, how do you expect to do that?
You know, if you imagine a corporation or something, right, it has a large structure
that plans and then it creates future version of itself more in many ways through planning than
through sort of random variation and selection, right? So sometimes firms have spin off firms and
then new firms are based on that. But firms influence their future selves more through
planning in some way. That's right. They decide to make a division and they decide to build a
factory and they decide to promote somebody and things like that, right? So there's there's a
sense in which we we influence the future, at least in short terms, often through planning.
And then you might think of that sort of the main alternative to
evolution as a way to influence the future, right? And that's very popular in the sense
that when people think about how do we want to influence the future, they often think in terms
of plans. They say global warming, how are we going to solve global warming? Let's come up with a
plan and implement it or something, right? Or war, how are we going to stop war? Let's come up with
the plan and implement it, right? So I would see, you know, planning versus sort of some sort of
competitive adaptation as the two main forces that we know about for influencing the future.
And up until recently, planning only ever had much impact on pretty short timescales. You could
plan your short your lifetime near in the near future, right? You could plan a town, plan a firm,
but over longer timescales, it was evolution and adaptation that had most of the impact on change.
If those are the only two processes, I guess aliens would have to choose between them too,
right? Right. And, you know, planning has become ascendant, right? In recent centuries, we are
doing more planning that's in the past, we didn't even have large firms, right? Most people were
small art artisans working on small scale firms are a new thing, large government agencies, those
are a new thing, large longer term projects, building huge dams, things like that, those are
all relatively new things. So planning is a sentence, right? More of the world today is
structured by plans than was true in the past, but still even so at the larger scale of our society,
most of it isn't planned, right? New firms arise, old ones go away, you know, new technologies
arise, mostly not through long term planning, right? But planning is growing. And I think
that tempts people to think, what if we could do everything with planning and then we wouldn't
need competition? And that's, I think, what's happening with these world mobs or world government.
I think that's sort of the key choice when we're thinking about which future we're going with,
the quieter, the loud aliens, really, that is in some sense, the quiet aliens are likely the ones
that liked planning, liked collective decision making, liked having a world community that
decided things together and chose consciously what to do and controlled things consciously.
And the loud aliens are the ones who allowed competition, allowed evolution and allowed
adaptation and all the conflict and strangeness that would produce.
Right. So the loud aliens are the ones that cared more about
descendants. Or they failed at the other approach. I mean, or they just failed at the other
approach, right? They could have wanted to do the other one and just failed at it, right? Remember,
just, it just takes one colonist, whoever leaves through the entire history of civilization and
goes off to another star. That's all it takes in the era of the central control. So it's a high bar.
Right. So quite likely they never intended for it. It was the outcome they, you know,
happened because they failed to achieve the other one.
You talked about how humans today are becoming more and more like foragers because we are the way
societies are structured in the last few centuries compared to, and this is something that you've
written extensively about, how are we more like foragers? Foragers are the way humans live for
a million years before, say, 10,000 years ago, roughly. And we lived in small groups and these
small groups were governed sort of informally by collective decision making where we sat around
the campfire and decided things together and then people didn't like it, they could leave.
And that's how we did things for a million years. And we had a lot of cultural flexibility that
allowed us to enter a lot of different regimes. Some of us became Eskimos and some of us lived
in the rainforest, et cetera. But we still mostly had the similar social structure of these small
bands who lived collectively and then basically, you know, they had a lot of things that are
different from us. They were relatively promiscuous. They didn't so much have a marriage. They shared
a lot of food, made decisions collectively. They had a lot of leisure time. They had a lot of
art and travel. And then at some point, farming became possible, including herding and farming.
And farming just requires a very different social organization and sort of attitudes
toward life in the world. Farmers lived in higher densities, for example, maybe communities of
1,000 instead of communities of 30. They had to plant seed and save for the future and they had
to have self-control. They had property instead of sharing everything. They were living close enough
to each other. They could have war and trade. They needed to manage self-control for war and
they needed to deal with inequality because they had these large groups that would produce inequality.
And farmers were just very different than foragers. And you might think it just couldn't happen that
foragers could become farmers, but humans had enough cultural plasticity that we could change over
maybe 50,000 years, slowly changed to become farmers. And farmers then accept more slavery,
inequality, marriage, property, war, trade, working harder, less nutritious, less travel,
all sorts of ways in which farmers were just different than foragers. But that's the way the
farming world lasted for 10,000 years under this new economic thing, which was much more productive
in the sense that people could just live much more densely, much more people per square mile living
as farmers than they could as foragers. So farmers won in that sense of just displacing foragers.
And then in the last few centuries, we've gotten rich. We found ways to generate wealth faster
than we grow the population. So the wealth per person has gone up. And in that time period,
as we've gotten rich, the cultural pressures that turned foragers into farmers have weakened.
That is a lot of what made foragers into farmers was cultural pressures that was mediated by the
threat of poverty. That is, so if you take, so foragers were pretty promiscuous. Okay,
they didn't really marry. They stayed with the partner for a couple of years and switched. Okay.
Farmers were supposed to be monogamous, right, for a lifetime. And so if you take, say, a young
farming woman who was tempted to be promiscuous, what makes her not? Well, she is told over and
over again at great expense and clearly if you break our rules about promiscuity,
you and your child may starve. And we can show you examples of people to whom that's happened.
And that tended to be persuasive. Farming young women and men learned enough self-control
to follow the farming norms that were different than the forging norms,
because they would die otherwise. And they had substantial threats that were powerful.
But when you get rich and somebody says, you know, if you don't follow the rules, then we're
going to disapprove of you and you say, yeah, but I'm rich, I can afford this. Then that doesn't
work so well. So in the last few centuries, as we've gotten rich, we have been felt less inclined
to go along with the forager norms and rules. We've looked inside ourselves and said, yeah,
but what do I feel like? And we've done those things. And we continue to move in that direction of
doing those things that we feel like doing because we can, we're rich enough that we can't. So today,
a young woman is told, hey, if you have a child out of wedlock, then you and your kids may have
problems. They go, okay, but I've seen other women, they have kids and they seem to do okay.
I think I'll do okay. So, you know, don't bother me.
And so we've been moving back to forager values outside of work. Now work is different in the
sense that work is the goose that lays the golden egg. It's the reason we are rich. So in fact,
at work, we are hyper farmers. We put up with domination and ranking and stuff at work that
most farmers can put up with and certainly not most foragers. So we are schizoid in the sense
at work. What do you mean by that last part? We put up with more dominance and ranking. So
at work, most people at work in the modern workplaces are told what to do all the time and
they're told they're doing it wrong. And they're shown they are worse than somebody else who's
shown to be higher than them, even if they don't agree with that people. And most farmers would
never put up with that. Most farmers were relatively independent farm, you know, farmers or
cobbler or fisher or whatever. They worked in small groups as relative equals. And they didn't
have a boss telling them what to do all the time. And after an initial apprenticeship,
they were in charge of how they did things and they could just do it that way for the rest of
life because things hardly changed. And so, and even that, so most foragers, again, are very
egalitarian. They're hyper egalitarian. They just, they refuse to do, they won't tolerate any sort
of implication that anybody's better than anybody else. They're really sensitive to that and they
were really squashed that very fast. Is this also because there are way less people?
And it's not, that's not central to it. It's more just the norm that nobody should stand up. So
compare it to chimpanzees. In a chimpanzee group, there's a dominant set of chimps who rule over
the group and are unequal. Okay. And humans didn't want that to happen. So humans are
consciously and purposely preventing themselves from having a dominant group like chimps do
and making sure everybody is treated equally. But that means they're constantly wary of somebody
thinking, I'm the big chimp and I'm going to, I'm going to take over here. And so they have to be
wary for that and stomp it as soon as they can because foragers are very egalitarian and they
enforce that vigorously. And so part of that is nobody tells anybody what to do in part of the
forager groups. And even children are not told much what to do. In fact, children are basically,
you know, raised in a forager group by children get bored and then they follow an adult around them
and maybe the adults will show them what they're doing if they're nice. And that's how children
learn to do what adults do. And so farmers have more ranking because farmers have classes, right?
There's the king and those lords and maybe slaves, but it's usually only a limited range of classes
and most people interact mainly within their class. So most farmers still have a relatively
egalitarian world where most of the people are at their level and nobody's giving orders.
And that's how most of the farmer life is. And so at work, but we put up with a lot of
domination and ranking at work. And it seems like school is a big part of why that's possible.
School seems to make the modern worker in a way that non-school doesn't.
So we've, we have many stories from around the world when modern, you know, companies would go
into some local area and try to put up a factory or some modern workplace and try to get the locals
trained to work in the modern workplace. And that often failed badly because the locals would just
not do what they're told, even if they're offered large wages and would be fired if they wouldn't
do what they're told, they just won't do what they're told. So like one classic example was
in India and England at the same time, they had the same factory for, you know, spinning, making
clothes or whatever, you know, making textiles. And in England, the factory was six times as productive
than the Indian factory because an Indian worker would, you know, have a machine and they would
sit next to the machine, they would tend that machine. And the English worker would have six
machines and sit next to them and tend them. If you told the Indian worker to tend six machines,
he'd say, no, that's not what I'm going to do. I refuse. And quite consistently across a wide range
of stories that I've heard is just hard to get local people to do what they're told in a workplace,
hard to get them to show up on time and especially hard them to just tell them that they're doing
it wrong. That is, workers just are typically very proud of they think however they do it is right
and they don't want this foreigner person telling the wrong. And especially commonly,
like I'm told this story, someone I knew worked like near a United States Indian reservation
and basically people off the reservation coming into a workplace, they would have this sense of
status in their work from their reservation and they insisted that all their work tasks in a job
reflected that relative status. They would not want to do a task that was lower status than somebody
else they thought was lower status than them in the workplace. And so, I mean, for example,
I understand when the United States goes into Arab countries and tries to train militaries,
say in other parts of the world, what they often have, if they have a room full of people with
training and some of them are higher than others in the room, then they can't do anything in the
room that would ever make a higher person look lower than somebody else in the room in terms of
their ability on any task. Okay. Right. And so they either have to only train people all at the same
level or train them in a way that they never actually do anything because they might look
worse. And this is just a very common sort of thing. People around the world are just very
sensitive to the status they think is due to them and then the task on the job might threaten that
status and make them look worse than somebody else who's supposedly lower status. But the key
thing is that school changes this because the main thing that happens at school is every day
you are ranked and rated many times in a way that most adults wouldn't put up with. Like,
on most jobs, most people get an annual evaluation, right? And that's a big sensitive thing. You're
not ranked every damn day constantly, but students in school are ranked every day. And in fact, we
know that that level of frequency of rating and ranking of students makes them learn slower. That's
actually a thing we know. We know they would learn faster if they weren't rated it so often.
But we do rate them so often. Plaza because that's the product. That's what we're trying to do,
trying to produce kids who will accept a modern workplace. Why are we trying to do that though?
Because that's actually more productive. That is because it makes us rich.
That's the thing makes us rich. We get rich because modern workplaces require a high degree of
organization, a high degree of specialization, and they change fast. And so people have to be
told what to do and told how to change it. And that's the goose that lays the golden egg. That's
how we are more, more agreeable or people that are more willing to take orders, right? We want to
produce people like that because it makes us more rich. And it makes us more productive.
Wow. At the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, people saw this and they were terrified
many people. So you can see like famous movies and novels around, say, you know, the year 1900
as people were seeing the Industrial Revolution spreading and they were seeing
this degree of regimentation and structure in workplaces. And they were terrified that that
would spread to everything. And that was plausible in the sense that they could see that in a factory
or a shipyard or one of these very structured modern workplaces, people did not have much
discretion about how they did things or what to do. They were told exactly what to do and how to
do it and when. And that seemed inhuman compared to prior workplace habits. And then they thought
that'll spread to everything. And so people wrote science fiction novels in the late 1800s,
describing what would happen if everything were regimented that way. What if society told you
who to marry and where to live, what to eat for breakfast and what clothes to wear all the time
always. Right. And that was this terrifying vision of the future that people were imagining
because they were seeing how regimented work was and they were thinking that will happen to
everything. Right. And it could have happened to everything if we hadn't gotten rich.
But as we got rich, we could spend our extra wealth on not having that happen outside of work.
So, you know, in a modern world, living in a big dormitory with a big cafeteria
where you all wear the same clothes is much cheaper to supply. So like I visited a commune
and there are communes out there that are living very poorly because they're basically supplying
their own food and clothes and stuff. But they can do it by having just a high degree of regimentation
and structure where people live in communal housing and have communal food and clothes.
And that is much cheaper than the way we do things. But as we got rich, we decided instead
of living in big communal housing and things, we would have personalized housing and personalized
kitchens and personalized clothes because in fact, that's what we've spent most of our wealth on in
the last century. So a century ago, people were looking at exactly variety, individual variety.
That's what we've spent most of our wealth on. We could have say vastly more food. We could say
maybe work two hours a week or something with all this technology we have. We don't need to work
very much if only we would be willing to accept very standardized communal food and clothes and
housing, etc. But we weren't. We chose we'd rather work a lot more and have a lot of personal
individual variety. That is what you're explaining when you're saying we're becoming more like
foragers. The individuality is individual as part of the forager trend, I think. But so a whole
bunch of trends are explained by this forager. So we say over the last century, we have less slavery,
less religion, less war, less marriage, more promiscuity, more leisure, more travel, more art,
less overt domination of all sorts at workplaces and all sorts of contexts.
These are all trends that are explained by this moving back to forager styles outside of work.
And many people have painted science fiction futures where this trend continues. And they
love this idea like Star Trek is partially like this or the cultural novels where basically in
the future people work less, even less than they do now. They have even more variety. They have even
more promiscuity. They have even less religion. They have even less war. So where does that go?
Even less fertility? Where does that end up? Oh, less fertility is part of that.
Yes, fertility is also for foragers had lower fertility than farmers. Why is that?
And why would our fertility be declining? So I have a more detailed theory,
but the first thing to notice is in fact foragers are lower fertility than farmers. So farmers are
often in a situation where they can have a lot of kids and they do, whereas foragers are usually in
a relatively stable environment where they control their fertility in order to make sure that they
can stay in that stable environment. So farmers have had just more variety in the size of their
environment where they go into a new area and they can just make a lot of farms, etc. And they can
just expand a lot, whereas foragers haven't had that same ability. But it is basically also just
true that foragers just tended to have lower fertility. Farmers might space verse once a year
and foragers might space them every three or four years or something. But I have another theory that
also can try to explain this lower fertility, because this is a central fact about our civilization
today. That is, if you want to complain about our civilization, it's like one of the biggest
things to complain about. You can say, well, any, any decent civilization wouldn't do this
in terms of it was hoping to survive and reproduce, right? It would, it would just,
why would it have such a lower fertility? So I do think there's a serious puzzle to be explained
in why we have low fertility. And I do have a favorite theory, but it's not just the forager
theory. Actually, it's a variation. But I mean, I do have to admit the forager correlation does
at least predict the sign of the effect. Okay, well, please expand on it. Okay. But so the idea is
that over the last 10,000 years, we lived in these larger groups, which often had things like kings
and queens, right? King and queen of a thousand people isn't quite the same thing. But still,
you had somebody at the top of a hierarchy who had much better long-term success for having
grandchildren say. So over the last 10,000 years, and the prior 50,000 say as people were adapting
to this, we evolved to ask, should I take a shot at being king or queen? That's a new strategy
option that didn't exist before foragers didn't really have kings or queens. But now that we have
king or queens, you might ask, well, should I go for that? So I could go for that, or I could have
my kids go for that, right? Should I try to raise kids in a such a way as they might be king? But
only certain people would have that option, only people that was in their lineage. No. So well,
the question is, what are the conditions for having a shot at being king or queen? So evolution,
cultural evolution and biological evolution had to find a way to code that. That is,
you know, there's a lot of different variety of civil groups, they have different practices,
everything. What would be a robust indicator that you had a good shot at being king or queen?
And the hypothesis is relative wealth would be a good indicator. That is, in almost all societies,
if you were higher status, you would have more wealth. So you're seeing that you had more wealth
than others would be an indication that you had a shot at being king or queen. You lived in a
bigger place, you had more food, more clothing, more leisure, just all sorts of indications of
wealth would be a robust indicator that you had a better shot than most of being king or queen.
So first let's ask, what would you do if you had a shot at being a king or queen? So in most
societies, there's an elite culture, and then there's signs of being a member of the elite
culture. And what you're trying to do is acquire those signs that show that you deserve to be a
member of the elite culture. So you might do embroidery or poetry or learn to do balls or
different societies have different things, but almost all of them will have a set of cultural
practices that elites have or rich elites have that others don't that mark you as a valid member of
elites such that you are a valid candidate for being king or queen, right? So now the story is
if I or my child has a shot at being king or queen, then I want to invest in them in developing
these cultural markers. I want to teach them poetry, to dance, to embroider, to sing, play the
piano, whatever it is that in any one society is a marker of the elites, maybe read more fiction,
know how to, etc. But it will take time to invest in that, right? And so the idea is that if I have
a shot at being king or queen, a better south than most for me or my child, then for me or my child,
I want to invest more in these cultural markers. And the key point is that will come at the cost
of fertility. That is, it'll take time away from other things and that if I want to invest more
in each child, I can't have as many children, right? Okay. So the idea is if I had a shot at
being king or queen, I would have fewer children or they would have fewer children because they
have a better shot at being king or queen. And if they do, then that will more than compensate
for the current fertility loss because king or queen will have lots and lots of grandkids.
So now the question was, you know, what would be the indicator that said I did have a shot?
The indicator would be relative wealth. That would work. So that's the simple story, but that
story doesn't work yet because in fact, over the last few centuries, we haven't had an increase in
relative wealth. We had an increase in absolute wealth. So the strategy I've just described says
look around yourself at your relative wealth to the people around you. And if you have a high
relative wealth, then you have a shot at being king or queen, then you should lower your fertility
now and invest more in the signs of cultural markers that would make you an elite qualified
to be king or queen. But the story doesn't work yet. So I have to add one last mistake to my story.
I have to say, well, up until the last few centuries, the average wealth never changed.
Societies pretty much always had the same average wealth, which was pretty near subsistence.
People varied within a society about their relative wealth compared to the average,
but the average almost never changed. So this heuristic look at my relative wealth was perfectly
fine as a heuristic look at my absolute wealth because my absolute wealth always told me my
relative wealth until the last few centuries. So why bother to do this relative thing? Just
look at absolute. So the story is evolution culturally and biologically encoded in us this habit of
looking at our absolute wealth as an indicator of whether we had a shot at being king or queen.
And if we did, we would lower our fertility in order to invest in the cultural markers of
eliteness such that we would then be a valid candidate for king or queen.
And then the problem is in the last few centuries, all of a sudden absolute wealth did vary.
We got rich consistently the whole world, not just temporarily, but persistently.
And that threw off this heuristic. So now everybody thinks they have a shot at king or queen and
everybody's cutting back their fertility to collect cultural markers of eliteness so that
they can all be king or queen, which is not working very well because they can't all be king
or queen. What is happening, it seems like right now in society, especially with young people,
is that people are investing more and more in their education or their careers, people my age
in particular, they are especially, you know, young men and women, they are putting way more value
into their finances, their education, their careers. And I would say these are markers of
eliteness. That is the things they're collecting instead of kids are markers of status in our
society. Right. And this is part of the reason that fertility is going down because we are,
we have less value on producing more children and more value on gaining eliteness for ourselves.
And my explanation is that's executing this strategy of trying to have your kids or you be
king or queen. Right. So by the time you do have kids, you have developed this wealth or you have
accumulated enough. You can train them to have high cultural markers so that they have a shot
of being king or queen, except neither, none of you have a shot of being king or queen
anymore. I mean, in the past, you would have, but now you don't. So why, why did we, how did
we end up here? How did it get like this? So the key idea is that evolution evolves strategies
that are heuristic and that use the cues available in a crude way. Right. So evolution can't look
at the world you're actually in and tell you exactly what to do in your world. Right. It can only
find markers of the world you're in and then find correlates between things you should do when those
markers exist. That's how evolution tells you what to do. It can't look at more detail. Right.
So it evolves this connection between the cues you see and the behaviors you should do to respond
through. And the way it encodes those is going to be opportunistic. It's going to be based on what
happens to be stable or not. So, so for example, imagine there was things like water except they
weren't water. Okay. Right. So imagine there's something like water that tastes like water,
isn't water or something else that smells like water that isn't water. Right. Now in our world,
everything that smells and tastes like water is water. It's not a problem. Right. So in our
world, evolution could have taught you when you're thirsty to get water based on the taste or the
smell, either one, it would work fine or just the way it flops when it, when it moves or something.
Right. When evolution wants you to go get water, it has a whole bunch of cues to work with that
all, all go together in our world. So it doesn't that much matter. Right. So, you know, maybe you
queued off the smell of water and then that smells good and now I'm going to drink water. Right.
So now imagine a world where, okay, there's a thing that smells like water that isn't water,
that isn't really, isn't actually healthy for you. Right. Well, now if you appeared in that world
all of a sudden, where you had been trained in the prior world, then you would start drinking
the stuff that smells like water and, and that would hurt you because it's not actually water.
Right. But, you know, that's because you moved into a new world. Right. You moved from a world where
all the different cues about water all went together. So you didn't actually need to use them
all. You could just pick any one of them and you moved into a world where all of a sudden it
makes a difference and now you'd be making a mistake. So the key idea is evolution has this
general task of figuring out what cues in the environment should trigger what behavior,
but it's only going to bother to like look at the actual variation in the world you're around,
not all possible variation in order to figure out what to get you to do.
So the story is that for our ancestors for a million years our ancestors lived in societies
whose average wealth never varied. So there was no point in evolution coding you with this way
of checking your relative wealth to other people. It was much simpler to have you just
check your absolute wealth. Right. That was the perfectly fine cue up until recently to decide
whether you had a shot at being king or queen. But all of a sudden the world changes and now this
heuristic that worked fine in the old world doesn't work so well in the new one and that's
why fertility is declining. We're just executing a heuristic that is misfiring because it's in
a new world. And there's projections that show birth rate where it's going and I think Elon Musk is
one of the most vocal people about this. So which is why he's having the question is like
how will this problem get fixed? And you might think okay eventually say evolution would fix it,
but now we have to ask well how exactly would evolution fix it? So I think the key question
is how much cultural conformity pressures are involved here? That is you know so for example
we've seen societies like you know the Mormon say or Orthodox Jews who have an unusual culture
that promotes fertility. Right. But nevertheless their fertility has also been falling at a similar
rate just at a delayed time. And even those societies apparently aren't failing to resist
the larger cultural pressure to adopt the larger cultural attitudes toward fertility.
Right. So that is your attitude toward fertility is a combination of like your genetic unique
attitude toward fertility plus the cultural attitude toward fertility around you that you're
being taught. Right. So biology can only fix this when that if that cultural that biological
attitude got so strong as to overwhelm this cultural attitude. And that doesn't seem to
be true of most people today that most people are pretty culturally influenced by the people around
some people might have more of a biological inclination toward fertility, but they all seem
to be pretty influenced culturally by the people around them. So either over I mean so if you think
about I think I did the numbers like in 1500 years humanity would go extinct if the population
went down by half every two generations or something like that. So that's kind of the
timescale we have to work with. Wow. So the question is well first of all can biology create
humans who resist cultural pressures enough over that timescale, which I'm doubtful for
more likely scenarios can culture create a new culture that resists outside cultural influence
over that timescale. And that seems more positive because we have seen cultures that are somewhat
insular in the past. Right. Cultures that train people in that culture to follow that culture
and to ignore outside cultures. Say forget all of them. They're evil. They're wrong. Just listen
to us. Right. So then the the wind scenario seems to me is that we end up with a especially
insular fertile culture. That is a culture arises, which has a strong value of fertility
and insularity. That is it teaches people to not listen to outsiders and to stay away from outsiders
and to just listen to people in the culture. This has to be more insular, as I said,
than the Mormons are now because they are failing. They are in fact have, you know,
responding enough to the outside cultural influence that they are on track to all with
everybody else. So this new insular culture is going to have to be pretty damn insular.
And that's going to cause a lot of costs. Right. That is, you know, that insular cultures have
caused wars and a lot of things and, you know, especially they're going to limit innovation.
Right. This insularity is probably going to resist other things from the outside culture,
not just fertility attitudes. So it's going to resist technology, maybe all sorts of things
that might resist. Right. And so and who knows what it'll be. But unless we can like engineer,
it'll be kind of random. Right. Which insular culture appears that manages to to persist.
And of course, it'll have to not only arise as an insular fertile culture, but also resist the
outside's world trying to crush it. Right. Because the outside will may be very offended
by their insular fertile culture. I'm less, I'm less assured of biology solving the problem
than culture. That is, I'm less assured that like some humans will just evolve a biological
inclination to just want to have a lot of kids regardless of cultural pressures.
Or we can start genetically making our own kids in test tubes.
I'm not sure. I don't think that helps. That is, it's about again, how much you invest in each
child, right? Getting pretty far. It's about how much you invest in each child,
not so much about how mechanically you make the child in the first place, right? Most of the cost
of raising children isn't the first year or the pregnancy. The cost is all that time it takes to
raise the child to be a elite, cultured child. And the time it takes to put into them and to
teach them things. Right. So if you'd have to imagine a future where people are willing to like
hand all that off to robots or something, right? Well, people are selfish too. Like,
I feel like right now people are, they're not, they're inclined to produce more kids,
but it's the time they're willing to spend on the kids because you're taking time away from
yourself and putting it right towards this other human. And you have to have enough faith and
enough belief that you're going to. Right. So you have to imagine something like, you know,
where the kids, the elite kids send their kids off to boarding school or something, right?
Where now the elites aren't spending the time and the boarding school does. Now you have to
imagine a very efficient, cheap boarding school, right? Right. So somehow it's going to be able
to raise these elite kids at a low cost to the parents so that they're willing to have a lot of
them. Right. That's, that seems a tough game. I would more predict the insular fertile culture
at winter. And the faster than that. Well, Rob, we've hit three hours. Thank you for doing this,
man. It's been fun. Thanks for letting me spout and ramble. And I'm going to have to watch this
over again so I can understand it better. But it's been quite educational. I appreciate it very much.
Where can people watching and listening find more of your work, find your books,
find you on the internet, et cetera? Well, I have a website, hansson.gmu.edu.
On Twitter at Robin Hansen. I have these two books, The Age of M and The Elephant in the Brain.
And just Google my name. Of course, we'll find it a lot. Or even videos on YouTube.
Google my name. Well, thank you very much again. It's been a pleasure. I very much enjoyed it.
