And Julie, we were actually, we were recording a little Patreon episode before you got in
here.
Oh really?
And we were watching the video of those deans at Harvard talking about the saying, you know,
the genus of Jews is not considered hate speech at your university.
She's like, well, not unless you can conduct the genus.
Right.
You have to actually commit it, which I pointed out in the tweet.
And I was like, so it's impossible for an individual or even like a campus to have a
genocide, right?
And genocide is removal of all the people on Earth, right?
Right, exactly.
But you can call for it, right?
We can call for the, you know, I would never do this, but you know, Armenians should not
be, you know, people from Tennessee should not be allowed to exist, those shiftless
Tennesseans, right?
And if you're doing that, you know, so that, that speech.
But then they're saying that that speech is okay, as long as you don't actually go out
and kill everyone from Tennessee.
But imagine trying to, is it hard to kill everybody?
You know, no, it's, it's really not.
It's a short, moral, complete moral cowardice.
I mean, universities have gotten so rotten.
You see what Dave Portnoy said about that, he, he, he's, Dave Portnoy came out and he
said that he, I think he went on one of the shows on TV and he's basically like, I'm no
longer gonna, we're not gonna hire any students from those universities until those deans
step down.
Yeah.
I mean, I, I was, you know, going around saying it's, it's actually a good thing.
My university is very prestigious, but it's not as prestigious as Harvard.
And that's a good thing because the more prestigious the university, the more the president wants
to keep her job.
And the more she wants to keep her job, the more dangerous it is for the university.
So these universities, forget about that, they've lost donations and stuff like that.
Those universities have a combined $120 billion endowment, so they don't need donations.
They need, you know, like if you give them $100 million, their, their net worth goes
up by, you know, one, one 10 of one percent, right?
So this is not something that really affects them.
But.
Yeah.
I think that they are so incredibly beholden to not offending, you know, which I think
is very demeaning towards Muslims, that they can't say that these certain things are off
limits and you can't say certain types of speech, just like Jews wouldn't go around
and saying, we call for the, you know, complete liquidation of all Palestinians from Israel.
Right.
It's not something we would ever condone.
So, you know, it's called making principles of your community, like you can have free
speech.
Free speech applies to the government.
The government of the United States cannot impinge upon your free speech and my free
speech.
They can't compel us to say stuff.
But campus is compel us to say stuff all the time, because it's a, it's not a free speech,
you know, it's not truly subject to the First Amendment, because they're not the government,
even at a public university like mine.
And then they people try to say, well, no, they get government funding, but there are
a lot of professors that don't get government funding.
So what do you do in that situation?
They can inhibit free speech very easily by basically, you basically can lose your livelihood
or you can lose your job or your tenure or whatever.
It's the same thing with the internet, people self censor because they don't want to be
kicked off YouTube.
That's right.
Yeah.
So the more prestigious you are, the less likely it is that you would be able to do
any other job in life.
This woman, Claudine Gay, I mean, first of all, for her scholarship, she's the president
of Harvard.
You keep saying Dean and...
Oh, she's the Dean.
I thought she was Dean.
Just to correct you, it would be like me saying, you know, this is just a little YouTube channel,
right?
This is a huge YouTube channel.
You're the president, you know, founder.
Although I have to say, when I was invited on this show, it's called Concrete.
Yeah, it was.
So now it's not called Concrete.
We have more than 10,000 subscribers.
So...
Oh, really?
Yes.
I think you have a lot more than 10,000.
So, yeah.
But no, no, no, the titles are very important for academics.
See, we don't get paid that much.
We don't get, you know, too much fame.
We don't get too much attention.
You know, some get more than others.
But academics really rely on one type of currency for their existence, for their self-gratification.
And that's how many times they get cited by other egg-headed academics like me.
To do what the president has been accused of, and it seems very credible, in fact, she's
already going back and retracting this, these papers and having them re-edited.
It's very scary, right?
Because there used to be a saying in the Soviet Union, I don't know if you ever saw those
pictures, like Lenin and Stalin, or Trotsky, this other guy in a bridge.
And like in the 1930s, and then they redid this picture and they just, they edited out
this guy.
But in the 1930s, and it looks flawless as if you did it with Photoshop, but of course,
yes, 80 years before Photoshop existed.
So they just, and so in the Soviet Union, there was a joke.
They used to say the future is known, that communism is the future, the future is bright
and glorious, but the past was always changing.
So they'd go back and erase things from history.
So literally what she's having these journals do, which is unprecedented, in some cases,
decades later, the president of Harvard, I couldn't get this done.
I'm just a lowly, you know, tenured professor, right?
The president of Harvard has convinced the journals that published her academic papers,
which are now being cited for plagiarism, that there's a claim that she plagiarized,
she stole work from other people, which is fine to do, not even stealing, if you quote it.
And you say, Brian Keating wrote this, Danny Jones wrote that, and you put quotes around it.
But if you say like, you know, your greatest hit, buying a Lamborghini for $4.1 million,
you know, whatever, like, and I just put it, I change it, I put Brian Keating video,
buying a Lamborghini, I get all the crap.
That's wrong.
That's objectively, intellectually dishonest.
But then to have YouTube go back and erase that, you made that video, that you did this
interview with CIA spy or a NASA, you know, whistleblower.
If you were to do that and go back and just erase you, that you never did it, I did it.
It's very scary.
It's rewriting of history.
What else do we have?
We don't have our memories and our history.
So it's a very depressing time to be an academic.
In part, that was the reason that I wanted to, you know, play around with what Jordan
Peterson is doing with the Peterson Academy.
Yeah, that's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
That's right.
And accredited eventually.
Although not yet.
There are all these weird chicken or egg things.
Like you have to graduate a college class.
Like you have...
People have to get their degree from Peterson Academy or this new university, Austin, Texas.
They have to get their degree before the university itself becomes an official university.
Does that make sense?
Did I do it?
So it won't be accredited, I don't know, if you went to college or not, but you know,
I went to college, I went to undergraduate, it was an accredited undergraduate institution,
I got my degree, Bachelor of Science, and so on.
I went to get my PhD also accredited.
For new universities, it's a little trickier.
You have to go through certain hoops, legislation,
so that just everybody can't open their own university
and give charged people tuition for degrees.
Right, right.
So yeah, so academia has been really under attack.
I mean, it's been bad for a long time.
This so-called diversity, equity, and inclusion,
or as I call it, diversity, inclusion, and equity,
and that makes the acronym, DIE,
is a, you know, it is an impingement upon free speech.
So for these people to all of a sudden discover
their newfound love for free speech,
it's kind of surprising,
because some of these people were some of the most
oppressive of ideas that they disagreed with,
and controlled the speech on campus extremely,
extremely strictly, until October 7th.
And when October 7th happened and Jews were massacred
in their beds in Kabutzeem,
and their toddlers were kidnapped for the first time in war,
there's no record of babies.
As I said, a baby who's a couple of months old
is in captivity in Hamas territory in Gaza.
Never happened in human warfare, modern warfare,
and that this is acceptable.
And the day after this happened on my campus
and other campuses, students celebrated.
They actually were concerned about the people of Gaza
and Palestinians, and said that the martyrs
had done great good, meaning the Hamas terrorists.
People on your campus?
On my campus.
What were they doing specifically?
So they said they had rallies in support
of the quote unquote martyrs.
These are students for justice in Palestine.
They're called, they're on every campus,
many, many campuses.
Some campuses have actually evicted them
and removed them, Columbia University,
Brandeis, recently Rutgers University
has banned them from campus.
They have different affiliations,
some with groups like CARE,
which is found to be extremely problematic,
and it's support for the October 7th terror attacks.
Anyway, so these campuses have become really intolerant.
In fact, in my campus, you see San Diego,
we had a rally outside of the Student Senate.
So the undergrounds were voting
on whether or not they should condemn antisemitism.
In other words, all your fellow students gather around,
and they said, we wanna make a condemnation
because there's been so much antisemitism
since and before October 7th.
We had a swastika written in human feces
in one of our dormitories at UC San Diego.
This was almost barely mentioned during what they,
these students for justice in Palestine
have a week every year,
and they call Israel an apartheid state
and all their slanders against Israel.
But anyway, they had this event that happened,
that swastika, I'm not saying it was created by them,
but it happened at the time
when they have these events on campus.
So the student senators decided,
we're gonna have a forum, a referendum,
just say we condemn antisemitism.
Well, outside that meeting,
there were students wearing kafias,
the Palestinian garb and others,
and they hoisted the flag of ISIS.
They hoisted the Shahada,
the flag that represents ISIS, Islamic State,
in front of where these senators,
to my knowledge, none of them are actually Jewish,
or some of them are Asian,
some of them are Latin American,
some of them are whatever.
None of them are Jewish,
but they hoisted this flag
in front of where they were holding this meeting.
Clearly meant to intimidate,
nothing was done to them.
You can come to meetings now wearing full head coverings,
unless you wear the wrong one.
So you can wear a complete kafia that covers your head,
but I guarantee you,
if somebody showed up with the KKK clan hood,
they would be escorted immediately as they should be.
You don't have to host people in your campus.
If I came into the studio and I said,
my First Amendment right has me be able to say
whatever I want and start to talk about the KK,
this is a private organization.
You don't have to do these kind of certain principles
that protect your decorum
and what you expect of people that come on here
and come into your private place of business
or even in public spaces.
So campuses have become real kind of centers
for a lot of extreme repugnant views
and not just very far away from an academia
is supposed to be and why I became a professor.
It makes me wonder too, when you look at history
and how much are these students being influenced
by where is their influence coming from?
You always wonder,
is it coming from an outside influence
just trying to sow chaos within the United States?
Do people really believe this?
Because these people are so disconnected
from what's going on in that part of the world.
Like they have no fucking clue.
We live, we're surrounded by 6,000 miles of ocean
in both directions.
Like we have it so good here, so good here.
And you can't begin to fathom
what it must be like to live in that part of the world
that's just been torn by war and religion
for so fucking long.
Yeah, now when you look at it and you see people
protesting the LGBTQ organizations
protesting on behalf of Hamas.
I mean, these are things that don't make sense
because their views are antithetical.
Like try finding, when was the last pride parade
held in Gaza?
Like just look up, look up and chat.
It's never happened, right?
Whereas in Israel, Israel's a parliamentary democracy.
So they have vote, they have all different parties.
They have an Arab party.
There's Arabs on their Supreme Court,
meaning Palestinians.
They're people that are Israeli citizens
that serve in their military.
I was just there in September.
I spent time with a man whose father is a 26.
He's a Bedouin, Muslim Bedouin from Tiberias.
And his father's been in the IDF for 26 years.
No problem, he's devout practicing Muslims, okay?
To say that there's like ethnic cleansing and apartheid,
it's just such a lie.
South Africa in the 1970s,
they didn't have blacks in the parliament.
They didn't have a parliament that has a LGBTQ party.
There's a party of that.
There are parties of atheists,
there are parties that are religious.
It's one of the most diverse
and multicultural societies on earth.
And it's in the most dangerous part of the world.
And the Jews have lived in complete,
kind of abject fear for decades.
And this is not to deny the Palestinians
should have landed their own.
I've never claimed that.
I've never said that, that they shouldn't.
But by the same token, you look at things
on October 6th versus October 7th,
how could you possibly see how you could make an agreement
to live in peace side by side with these people
from Palestinian territories who now support,
there are more supporters I read yesterday,
of Hamas in the West Bank than in Gaza.
By proportion and amount.
Yeah, so these are the people
that Israel's gonna attempt to make peace with.
I think it's gonna be extremely challenging.
I think Israel had huge breakdowns in their society
and internally, but their democracy
and at least things will get worked out,
probably Netanyahu will be gone.
But the campus culture has gotten so,
it's become so virulent.
These ideas like you were mentioning,
that they propagate in a mind virus,
that things you could not get someone to believe in
unless they were an intellectual.
There was a phrase that's Lenin used to use
called useful idiots,
where there'd be people that could do good
because they were stupid and easily duped.
But I came up with a phrase that's called useless geniuses.
They have all these brilliant people on campus,
like the father of string theory, maybe we'll get into it,
or one of the modern fathers of string theory, Edward Witton.
For the last, until October 7th or till just this summer,
he had his Twitter feed.
And if you looked at his Twitter feed,
essentially every single tweet about it
was about how evil Israel is,
and how just the Palestinians are,
and how Israel is basically an apartheid state.
Who is this you're talking about?
Edward Witton.
This is Edward.
He's a Twitter?
And it's Twitter.
I didn't realize that.
And so I made jokes like no wonder string theory
hasn't made any progress in decades,
because there's this guy,
who was the foremost proponent and champion of string theory,
and he's obsessed with his, he's a Jew.
He's obsessed with the alleged atrocities
that Israel was committing.
He's gone silent.
He's gone completely silent.
So I've hoped for string theory.
Maybe string theory is about to make a revolution,
because Edward Witton, maybe he's gotten back
his moral intellectual ability.
But until then, he's called a lot of times
the smartest man on earth.
And he believes things that were just completely,
just absolute, just nonsense.
And it takes sometimes an intellectual
to believe such things.
That's funny.
So before you got here,
I told you we were doing this little Patreon episode,
and I called up Jack Sarfati.
And I said, Jack, he's a good friend of mine now.
After I went and visited him,
he's a, I wish there was more people like him.
Cool, after, well, you'll have to explain.
I said, Jack, I've watched 10 videos
on string theory this morning.
Can you explain to me what string theory
is better than any of these YouTube videos can?
His answer was, it's bullshit.
It's bullshit.
It's art.
It's mathematical art.
I saw his interview with you.
But you can confirm or deny that.
Jack's a problematic person a lot of ways.
He's extremely, he's extremely obstetarous.
I mean, he loves to cause trouble.
He copies me on emails.
I've asked him to remove me a hundred times.
I'm on emails too.
I'm like, how do you possibly expect
to revolutionize technology and physics
if you don't understand how to use BCC?
I would just love that one.
And one of my friends who, I won't say who it is.
So every time Jack sends an email,
this guy sends him a link to like donate
to Kamala Harris reelection.
Oh no, that's hilarious.
Because this guy is so seas asked him four times,
the guy won't do it.
And then there's always a new thread
and he changes his email address.
So it's like every, every day this guy's
getting a new email from, I actually have a block.
So I blocked all his emails.
So Jack, if you're out there, try harder, my friend.
I think he was at UC San Diego before he went to UC San Diego.
Yeah.
He got his degree there.
And he's always trolling.
Not as PhD, but he has masters in physics from there.
Yeah.
So I have no record of anything
that he's done the last 25 years or more, even that.
I haven't got back.
I believe that he was mentioned in this book
by my good friend, David Kaiser,
called How the Hippies Save Physics.
Yes.
To what extent his contributions are really,
you know, recognized, you know,
I think you can look at who have gone,
you know, these, these awards, who get citations,
what papers have been published, what journals.
And just the way that he communicates,
I think is really obnoxious.
And the way that he criticizes,
my very good friend, you know, Eric Weinstein.
He's an idiot.
He's a schmuck.
His podcast called him an idiot and a schmuck, I think.
He called that to me.
He calls me that almost every time I talk to him.
Yeah. I mean, it's, you know,
you don't have to be around him, right?
You know, you're not in the field as the same field as him.
Right.
But everyone's an idiot compared to him.
So, you know.
Yes, exactly.
And that is a fact, by the way.
Yeah. Jack, they say, let me give you a tip.
They say you're the average of the five people
you're around the most.
So, all of the around you as an idiot, you're the idiot.
It's like the fool at the poker table.
But, you know, God bless him, he can do his thing.
But look, the difference between these guys,
it's Drink Theorist and Eric Weinstein
and Brian Green and Michio Kaku,
who Jillian, our mutual friend, has had on.
They're all theorists, okay?
So, they're working on theories
that are, by nature, provisional.
Every single theory is provisional.
The theory of evolution is provisional.
The theory of plate tectonics is provisional.
In other words, could change.
I always like to bring up this idea.
Like, do you believe the earth is a sphere?
I don't know if you've had flat earthers on the show.
I have, unfortunately.
I should have, yeah.
I should have done my due diligence before.
I know what a flat, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I know it's not a perfect sphere.
It's like a flywheel.
Well, it's the equator's wider.
Yeah, it's exactly.
Bolzer's at the equator, it's a little narrower at the pole,
so it's kind of like a pair.
It's a little weird shape.
But if you believe that it's flat,
you're more wrong than someone who believes it's a sphere,
even though you both are wrong, technically, right?
To explain, you actually need to involve these things
called spherical harmonics,
and even those will have some deficiency
in capturing the accurate shape of the planet itself.
But there's degrees of being less wrong,
and then there are classifications of people you say
that are not even wrong, a famous quote from Wolfgang Pauley.
So the question is, can a theorist really make progress?
The answer is no.
A theorist can't do anything,
can't do crap by themselves sitting in a room,
because for a very important reason,
you may think it is the job of an experimental physicist,
like me, or a theoretical physicist to prove something.
But actually, proof in physics is completely impossible.
Any physical science is impossible.
There's only two subjects you can prove something in.
One is called logic or philosophy, and the other is math.
Math can actually have a theorem like one plus one equals two,
and it will take 200 pages to prove it
from different category theories, group theory, set theory,
and you can prove it multiple ways.
You could prove Pythagorean theorem
in, I think, 300 different ways you can prove it.
But you can't prove a theory of physics, right?
If I say the evolution is true,
all I have to do is find one counter,
I'm not saying this exists, of Lamarckian genetic traits,
and actually, some of it was thought to be very plausible,
say, or that you find some type of creature that doesn't use DNA
and only uses RNA or some triple, I don't know, making it up,
but the point is one counter example
can falsify something that was previously believed to be true,
like Newtonian gravity, like Einsteinian gravity.
We don't even think Einstein's the final word, right?
There's no final word because there's no proof
in physical science.
There's only proof in a mathematical abstract,
abstract sense, as it is, say, in mathematics and in philosophy.
So for physicists, it gives them great angst.
Theoretical physicists know that not only is it not possible
for their theory to be proven, it may not even be testable.
And this is the problem with theories like that
of people like Michio Kaku, Brian Green,
or Edward Witton, Strength Theory, or Jack.
I can't look into Jack's theories
without getting a headache.
He says, challenge any of these schmucks
to debate the Salfati.
They're all scared.
Oh, yeah, right.
Yeah, so I-
No one will debate them.
No, I'll quote what I was told once that Richard Dawkins said
when he was asked to challenge them
and he doesn't believe in evolution.
He says, I could see how that would be
an outstanding addition to your CV.
But you can understand how it would be
an absolutely horrendous one for mine, right?
Right, right.
So Jack's completely, no one's gonna debate him.
No one's gonna-
Because, actually, because of the way-
They don't wanna be associated with him?
They don't wanna be associated with him.
They don't take him serious.
I actually joke, I say like somebody comes up with this,
because, actually, Eric Weinstein's called me up
a lot recently asking about my thoughts on Grush
and I actually haven't done my due diligence on it.
I've been so busy the last couple of weeks,
but it's something I'm gonna have time,
maybe even talk to Grush at some point.
But I always ask Eric or whoever I talk to
or they have some new theory.
I say, what's the Salfati number?
Like how far away from complete abject unfalsifiability,
just like I got there first, I came up with this
and just the kind of grandiosity
that people like Jack won.
And there's many of them.
I get emails from them every day.
Professor Keating, you're wrong, everybody's wrong.
I'm right, let me come on the podcast.
Let me write a paper with you.
I'm not good in math.
I mean, Jack's probably good in math,
but they'll say, I'm not good in math,
but if you help me out, we'll share the Nobel Prize.
And for, I don't blame these people
for having passion about these different phenomena.
But look, if I asked you, you know, Daniel,
I said to you, look, which is more important?
Let's say Grush is, there is something,
and I don't know, I actually don't know,
because I think you're, you do an outstanding job.
You don't really kind of tip your hand
at what you truly believe.
You're not dogmatic.
You're kind of curious.
You want to hear the answer.
And, you know, for me, if I asked you,
just point blank, I said, let's say Grush is right.
What do you think is the technology
that allowed these spacecraft to get here?
He's claiming, as far as I understand it,
he hasn't seen, and please correct me if I'm wrong,
because I don't follow as nearly as close as you do.
But he's claiming that there are people in the government,
or US government, that have covered up
the landing of spacecraft with bodies inside,
with some type of biologics,
he's called them in congressional testimony.
I've had on Ryan Graves on my podcast,
who's a former F-18 pilot.
He's been here too.
Yeah, yeah, and he's great, and he's a very sweet guy,
and I believe, you know, he's earnest in his mission
when he's trying to accomplish.
And he hasn't said, though, you know,
he never said that he saw these craft,
these spheres inside a cube.
Yeah, exactly.
He said that he knows the pilots,
and they would not only see them,
they'd see them every day, every deployment,
so, and Fravor claims he saw this tic-tac.
Let's just say they're all real.
There's some kernel of truth, God tells you.
Here, Danny, boom, they're true.
There's tic-tacs, there's crash saucers,
there's biologics, there's cubes with spheres,
and spheres with cubes.
What, if I asked you, Danny,
what was the technology that was more important
to those aliens to get here?
Was it string theory, or was it metallurgy?
What would you say it is?
What technology enabled it more?
Like, if you just had a guess,
was it something like string theory,
or was it something like metallurgy?
I would say something like metallurgy.
Yeah, I mean, it's much more practical, right?
There's nothing about string theory necessarily
that involves anything that's a necessary condition
for those aliens to get here.
And yet, you have people like Jack and like others
that you need this warp drive,
and you need this theory of physics,
and Eric's theory of geometric unity is wrong,
because to answer this question usually presupposes
the fact that these distances are enormous,
which is true, I mean, these distances are enormous.
But the age of the universe is also quite enormous, right?
So if you imagine that these craft have been traveling
if they exist, and I'm not saying
I actually don't think they exist.
Right.
So I'd rather kind of defend that.
But I think to be an intellectual, and to be honest,
you have to say, look, let's give the other side
steelman your opponent's argument,
and see if that sharpens up your own.
So from my perspective, when people result as they,
Grush has, that these things are holograms,
and they travel fast in the speed of light,
and they can manipulate space-time,
I've heard him when he was on Joe Rogan,
speculating about this, tying in these loose notions
of quantum mechanics, and relativity,
and warp drives, and all these other things.
He's a physicist too, isn't he, Grush?
No.
No, I think he's-
I thought he had a degree in physics.
He might have a bachelor's degree or something.
That doesn't mean he's a physicist.
He's not a pilot.
I mean, he's not right.
And I don't think that those things necessarily, like,
favor, oh, you're doubting a U.S. Navy veteran.
I'm like, he has more bigger balls than I do,
but this doesn't mean he's, like, better observer
and analytic when it comes to data analysis.
He did an eyewitness thing.
You know, probably, most courts, you know,
eyewitness reports are replete with being completely erroneous,
misinterpreted, you know, they have famous studies
where there's, like, the Stanford studies,
a gorilla dribbling a basketball,
like, between all these other people,
you're just counting how many times somebody dribbles
a basketball and a gorilla goes to it.
Nobody notices the gorilla.
I mean, the fact that human beings
are not considered as reliable
as other forms of evidence in many situations
leads me to say that, like, yeah, I'm just as qualified.
Again, I don't have the balls at David Fravor.
Ryan Graves have my friend Ariel Kleinerman
I've had on all these guys.
I haven't had David Fravor.
Alex Dietrich, I mean, I'm like, she has big balls,
whatever she has, big ovaries.
I'm not, I don't have the courage.
I didn't have the physical mental abilities
to be a pilot at their level.
I fly little Cessnas around.
But, okay, I stipulate that.
But does that mean that you just trust whatever they say?
I mean, are we in the stance,
are we gonna take the stance
that someone in the government is to be trusted?
I mean, I always thought that the government
is to be suspicious of, right?
We covered up Roswell.
They covered up all these things, Kennedy assassinated.
So you can't have it both ways.
I mean, at some point, you have to look and say,
what do the data tell us right now?
And I'm always surprised on my channel
how many people just assume that I'm working
for big astronomy or there's some conspiracy
that I'm a part of that like,
because I am skeptical of the existence.
Oh, look, I'll be honest.
I'm skeptical not only of the existence
of alien technology, I'm fairly suspicious
of the existence of alien life,
which is a prerequisite for alien intelligence
and technology, right?
And I've made arguments for that
when I was on Joe Rogan and Lex Friedman,
but I'm not the final word either.
So caveat, mentor.
Why don't you believe that there is alien life?
Or you say, you said, you have said before
that you don't believe that there is alien life
or intelligent alien life because...
Careful about it.
I don't say I don't believe.
Like I say, I don't believe in gravity either.
Evidence, there's no evidence.
That's right.
But people like Jack Sarfati would say
that there is evidence and they've seen it.
And it's not something you can measure
and test in a laboratory with beakers.
It's something that you have to see.
It's intelligence, it's police, it's investigative work.
It's police work.
Like it's something that scientists
aren't gonna have access to
and they won't be able to measure and detect,
but it's something that exists because they've seen it
and they know that if you have a security clearance
or whatever it might be, it's verifiable and it's there.
So I ask you, are you a Christian?
I'm not really like religious though.
You don't believe in God or...
I mean, I believe in God.
I haven't really explored it too much.
I believe in something.
I don't follow a strict faith.
Yeah, okay, that's fine.
You're not a practice, you know, I don't practice.
Right, right, right.
Fine, but you know people that believe
the existence of Jesus Christ,
not only based on the testimonies of the New Testament,
but also because they've had personal revelation
or they've been saved, salvation,
from by the works of Jesus that they ascribe to Jesus, right?
Would you attribute those scientifically in any way?
Would you say that they're a personal revelation of Christ
in their deepest, darkest moments,
they're at the bottom of a bottle
or they're at the top of the world
when they have a baby or whatever?
Is that a scientific claim or is that a faith claim?
It's not scientific.
Right, so in that sense, that's okay
because faith is one thing and science is another thing.
These things that they're talking about
that they've seen with their eyes or they've experienced
and there's some, you know, cover,
those are also, now they're not only faith,
but they're also saying they're scientific.
If you're making a claim that there's objects
and those objects have traveled across
interstellar distances or as Tom DeLong told me
on my podcast a long time ago,
that those things have come from forwards in time
or backwards, I don't fully understand.
And he can't prove it and he has no chain of evidence
that traces the alien spacecraft
that he claims he has evidence of.
He's lost the kind of provenance
as they would call it in antiquing.
So at what level do you say, well, okay,
that's now you're just talking about faith,
which is fine, you could talk about faith all you want,
but your faith is almost like taste, like I hate fish.
There's no much, you could take me to the seafood restaurant
down the street and tell me how great this thing tastes
and I'm gonna say, I don't give a crap,
I'm not gonna eat that damn thing.
And you could say, even as people do,
it doesn't taste like fish.
I'll say, you know what else doesn't taste like fish?
A freaking hamburger doesn't taste like fish.
So I'll just skip the middleman
and I'll have my own hamburger, right?
So what's up guys?
I'm super psyched to introduce to you
another product that I've been using for years now
that was also recommended to me by the world-renowned
nutritional scientist, Dr. Dominic Dagestino,
and it is called Keto Brains.
Keto Brains Nutropic Creamer is a way to perfectly dial in
your morning beverage to bring you razor sharp focus on demand.
I start out every day with Keto Brains in my cup of coffee
to combat the midday slump and I use it for pre-workout.
Keto Brains Nutropic Creamer has efficacious doses
of focus inducing alpha GPC, lion's mane,
alpha whey promoting L-theanine,
and ketone stimulating C8 MCT powder.
And all of those high functioning nutropics
are packed into a delicious creamy coconut powder.
It tastes amazing.
It's a Keto Nutropic Powerhouse
and it tickles all the right neurotransmitters
to give you the flow and jitter-free energy
with absolutely zero crash.
There's no dosage tricks involved.
It's just one scoop is a full serving.
You can put it in your coffee, your tea,
put it in your water, whatever you want,
and you get 30 full doses per package.
There's no pills and there's absolutely no waiting for it
to work, it kicks in like that.
You can keep your brain razor sharp, primed,
and ready for action with Keto Brains Nutropic Creamer.
Whether you're an entrepreneur juggling multiple projects,
a student studying for exams,
or you're an athlete that's trying to optimize your training,
Keto Brains will not let you down.
All right, here I'm gonna list all the ingredients
contained in Keto Brains and what they do.
It increases ketone production via AG C8 MCT powder.
It increases acetylcholine in HGH production
via 300 milligrams of alpha GPC.
It increases GABA and alpha wave production
via 250 milligrams of L-theanine.
And it increases BDNF and NGF via 500 milligrams
of lion's mane mushrooms.
And these are all carefully sourced
and third-party tested ingredients.
This stuff quite literally increases acute brain function,
protects your brain and mitochondria long-term,
and last but not least, it makes your coffee delicious.
If you're interested in Keto Brains
and you wanna get a big discount,
just go to the link in the description below,
ketobrains.com, and use the promo code Danny20
when you check out.
Again, that's ketobrains.com.
Hit the link below and use the promo code Danny20
at checkout, back to the show.
There's no amount of that though,
convince a person to believe based on your faith
in something else, which may be very visceral to you.
It may have saved your life,
or it may have made you a better man.
But that doesn't have any effect on other people.
And science is about the determination of rules
and patterns throughout the universe
that hold throughout the universe.
The Copernican principle states,
the universe doesn't care who you are, where you are,
what you are, what you're made of, what day it is.
If I drop this, your gift,
I'm gonna wish you a happy Hanukkah,
so I brought you a gift.
So I got you two gifts, well, three gifts.
So this is your gift for early Christmas presents,
because I want you to keep your anus clean.
Your anus, so, oh, wow, this is amazing.
You gotta share it with Steve.
Oh, Steve, we can keep our anus, we can bleach our butthole.
Your ani.
You know that NASA's considering changing the name
because it's so embarrassing to say your anus, right?
They've commissioned a panel.
That's beautiful.
They've come up with the following term, your rectum.
So, and I'll tell you what this is later on.
But if you look at something that is portendate,
sort of masquerading as something that could be scientific,
forces, fields, life in the universe,
all these things are contingent upon the existence of life,
which is a physics question, a biology question,
evolution question.
And so they're saying, here's this thing
that interacts with some people, but not others.
Well, that violates the Copernican principle.
Sorry, that's, I'm gonna have a big problem with you
if you say that, like,
there are only certain people that could experience it.
So what good is it?
You know, so in other words,
the only people that wanna believe it will see it,
and only the people that already do believe it
will experience it, that's not science.
It may be some cult or some new thing.
And you see a lot of the same types of behavior.
The people get very obsessed,
almost cult-like in their fervor for this.
Jack is screaming out every now and then,
why won't you listen to me?
Why won't you?
And I think he's suffering a crisis of meaning
in that, you know, he wants to be accepted
by as many people as possible.
Well, how's that gonna happen?
If you keep, you know, solipsistically referring back
to yourself that you can only be the one
that could be trusted with this information,
and you're the only one that could see it.
And nobody, no matter how much,
will ever get to experience your perception,
your taste, your experience.
So I feel like it's at the highest level,
it becomes pointless almost to debate these people.
So in your view, what do you think explains
all these things like Roswell
and these things that these pilots are seeing
on their radars and the sightings
above these nuclear bases and all this stuff?
Like, what do you deduce from that?
I don't wanna avoid the question,
but I would say like, why don't you believe in Muhammad?
Like, why aren't you a practicing Muslim, Danny?
It's not fair, right?
I mean, like, maybe you haven't seen evidence to believe,
like it's not up to you to explain
why you're not a practicing Muslim, right?
It's up to me, if I was proselytizing as a Muslim,
to try to convince you that actually Muhammad,
the prophet was this and that,
and you should accept him or Jesus or whatever, right?
In other words, my lack of believing it
is not a statement about me,
unless you say like, well, in other words,
how can I explain a billion Muslims
worshiping Muhammad, Allah, and being practiced?
Like, okay, this is something that has convinced them.
So now you're asking me an analogous thing,
like what explains all these things?
Well, I don't believe that they're actually,
that they're representative of a reproducible
scientific chain of events that can be tested
using the scientific method.
If in fact, it's true, which I don't know,
but if it's true that they only reveal themselves
to certain people in certain places or on nuclear plants,
then I have to be very suspicious as a scientist, right?
I mean, I'm a father, so I have kids and I look at the kids
and if they say like, well, I have an imaginary friend,
oh, what's his name?
Well, you can't know, you can't experience him.
But he's telling me to like steal money from your wallet.
Like, okay, well, I would like to know more about that
because you're telling me that something is happening
with something that I cannot have access to
because either I don't have clearance
or the government's conspiring to keep me
from knowing that information, et cetera, et cetera.
So what is the information that's out there?
It's too hard for me to kind of assess the credibility
of what's been claimed by various people.
As I said, they're much more courageous,
they're much braver, bigger balls than I'll ever have, right?
That's grush, whoever, favor.
But that doesn't give them any extra ability
to practice the scientific method than I have.
And when you, I don't know, I mean,
it would almost be better for me
because you've investigated these more.
I'll say why I think it's unlikely.
I'll never say that these, they don't exist.
I won't even say that what they're claiming isn't correct.
I'll just say that you have to ascribe a probability.
And to me, the probability is very low.
I can't say it's zero.
That they ever saw this stuff ever happened?
That there are actually, I don't wanna say that they saw it
or that there are alien spacecraft from another solar system
somewhere else in either our galaxy or another galaxy
that has been collected by human beings on Earth.
I'm not saying that that's what it is.
I'm saying like, the people that Ryan knows
or Fravor, the things that they saw,
what would you imagine that them being
based on your scientific perspective and your back,
like you don't think that they're aliens from another galaxy.
I don't think they are either.
What do you think the explanation for them is?
Do you think that it's just a construct?
Well, so the name of my podcast is called
Into the Impossible and oftentimes people think
it comes from the Sherlock Holmes quote,
which is that, you know, once you've excluded anything,
no matter how crazy the facts that remain,
no matter how impossible they are,
that is the actual truth.
And for me, the Into the Impossible comes
from a different quote from Arthur C. Clark.
The only way to determine the limits of the possible
is to go beyond them into the impossible.
I have to ask, what types of phenomena are possible
within the laws of physics
that I am very, very conversant with?
And what things would go so to speak
outside the laws of physics?
You'd have to ascribe things to that.
So in other words, how many improbable things
does one have to believe to actually accept
that these things are from another galaxy?
That's a separate question, right?
Yes, yes.
So what are they seeing?
So I will ask a different question.
I'll say, what are plausible other explanations
for what they've seen?
So here's a statistic.
When the planet Venus is visible on Earth
about nine months out of the year,
three months out of the year it's behind the sun,
it's too close to the sun,
it's emerging from behind the sun, you can't see it.
But nine months out of the year.
In, not only in America, but throughout the world,
the number of UFO sightings is statistically
an incredibly amount more meaningful to be detected
or to be claimed during the nine months of the year
when Venus is visible.
It's extremely bright, if you've ever seen it,
it doesn't seem to move, it seems to hover
like the way the moon doesn't move
when you're driving, the giant parallax of it.
Same thing happens with Venus.
It does change a little bit, it doesn't twinkle,
it doesn't flash, and so millions of people,
millions of people report it when Venus is out,
the number of UFO reports goes up dramatically
in a statistically significant manner.
Conversely, when it's not up, they go down, okay?
So that's an explanation for some things
that people are seeing, right?
So if you said every single one of those people,
unless they're all right,
then we can't believe in that being a UFO, okay?
So you'd be right, that's Venus, so it's not a UFO.
We have very good identification
and it's not even flying, it's orbiting.
So other things that make me curious about,
suspicious about these claims,
a lot of them are by military pilots.
So what do militaries do?
Do they only have the best interest
of their people at heart?
Do the military ever use their own tragically
and horribly use their own conscripts or volunteers?
Do they only use them for beneficial purposes
or for the actual missions that they signed up to do?
Do they ever do psyops on them?
Of course they do, right?
Do they ever abuse the power?
The government ever abused the power
and abused the people that are very bravest among us?
Of course they do, right?
Do they ever subject them to things
they would never subject ordinary citizens
to under the Constitution?
Yes, they're exempt from certain things.
They force them to get vaccines.
They do all sorts of things, right?
And so could it be that they are maybe testing these pilots?
Absolutely.
Furthermore, what are some other types of technology?
Do you think all technology that the US inventory has
or adversary governments have right now is known
and is published in popular science?
Hell no.
Of course not, right?
So therefore there could be advanced technology
that could have been basically kept completely clandestine
until it was interacted with
by someone who thought they were a whistleblower, right?
So, and then is it possible to maintain the conspiracy?
It would have to be, I mean, David and others are alleging
there's a conspiracy to cover up these things.
And can the conspiracy be maintained over eight decades?
Not only between the thousands of individuals,
you have to imagine, let's say Roswell,
even though I know it's not that,
so don't flame me on the channel comments below
when you like, subscribe and comment.
I'll drop that for you.
Thank you.
And don't flame me, I don't believe this,
but let's just say basically something like Roswell happened
where there was a crash spacecraft in 1947,
which by the way, occurred very close to the Trinity site,
very close to military secret compounds.
And as are many of these things cited,
very few of them are cited over Manhattan
in the middle of the Thanksgiving Day Parades.
Many of them occur in warning areas,
which are military traffic areas
that even I as a small pilot, I'm allowed to go into.
So where the Tic Tac was seen was an area
that's not restricted or prevented from access to.
It's something I go into at my risk.
I can get shot down.
They actually use my plane as target pride.
They don't actually shoot, thank God, I won't be here.
But there's a little Cessna,
and they'll practice locking on, thank God they do.
I want them to train,
I want them to be the best freaking fighting force
in the world, I love this country.
I want them to be protected, I want them to be safe.
I don't want them to be experimented on,
I don't have control over that.
But could they be being spoofed?
Could this thing have been a drone?
Now they'll say, well, it moved so fast, it can't be.
Are there ways to spoof both optical sensors
like the human eye, cameras in 2004?
Well, I gave this example when I was on Joe Rogan's show.
I'll give it now, because I don't expect everybody
listens to all my stuff, although I wish that they did.
I said 1943, there was a great physicist.
He's actually featured in the movie Oppenheimer.
His name is Louis Alvarez.
And Louis Alvarez was just a genius.
He and his son actually came up with the theory
of how the dinosaurs were exterminated
through this impact of a meteorite
and collected the evidence,
so it's called the TK Boundary, the Chicksalub event
in the Yucatan.
And so he was just a polymath, he knew everything.
But he was also a nuclear physicist.
But he, in part, in addition to the Manhattan Project,
there was another secret project led out of MIT.
And it was to develop radar in partnership with the British.
And it was to develop the first radar sensing technologies,
early 1940s.
And it was almost as important,
if not as probably more important than the Manhattan Project.
In other words, it saved more allied lives, perhaps.
And it established protection,
it allowed London to be basically saved
during the war from complete, just utter annihilation.
Right.
So Alvarez working on it.
And in that time, there were no,
it was just radar would be used.
It would send up a pulse,
and that pulse would bounce off an aircraft, come back down,
and it would get reduced a little bit
by each time it made transmitted,
something called the inverse square law.
So the signal amplitude or the intensity decreases,
the flocks that you detect,
decreases as one over the distance to the object squared.
So if I bounce a sonar or radar off of you,
the intensity will decrease by one over the distance
between us, say a meter away, squared.
And then if I moved you twice as far away,
it'd be four times lower, okay?
And then it will also get another factor,
because now you become another transmitter
at the distance the same distance.
So it goes down as one over R to the fourth power.
Okay, so it's a very, very steep function.
What Alvarez said, and the Germans knew that,
so the planes coming towards them,
and the Allied planes were coming towards the Germans,
the Germans would say,
oh, the signal's getting bigger
as one over the distance to the fourth power.
And then they could target it very accurately
and send rock or shoot it down,
or send out other planes to shoot it down.
What Alvarez said is, let me do the following.
As my plane is flying towards you,
I'm gonna transmit a signal to you.
Okay, it sounds weird.
Why would I transmit a signal telling you where I am?
No, no, no, but he transmitted it
at the exact rate of decrease that I would expect
as if the plane were going away.
So he started off with some signal out, say one unit,
and then he dropped it by the fourth power,
and they were like, oh, the plane's going away,
it's no longer a threat.
Boom, then they blew up the site
with an anti, what's it called, anti-radiation bomb.
So if you were a German,
one of the most advanced technological civilizations on Earth,
you would be saying that object
defied the laws of physics.
Not only do we not see it,
but we also had some stealth capabilities too,
but actually move faster than the speed of light,
and it moved in a way that we can't understand.
It was here one minute,
but actually we thought it was there,
but it was actually 80 kilometers away,
and that happened in one second,
that's a million microseconds.
So it appeared to defy the laws of physics.
So there are all sorts of things that they could do,
especially during military.
Military are the least reliable in a certain sense,
because they're probably the ones
that are most confronted
with both the adversary's highest technology
and their own friendly militaries,
Psyops and experiments on them,
and loyalty tests and all sorts of false flag events,
or colored wars,
all sorts of things that they can do
to sort of spoof and to train and to test
the fighting forces readiness and their loyalty.
And that's just a fact of life.
And you have to, is that more plausible, Danny?
And I'm not saying I'm right.
And again, I'm never saying this,
that I have a final word either,
do your own, do diligence.
This is not investment advice.
But if you look at the data,
then you compare to the alternative hypothesis,
it's called the likelihood ratio test.
This is what scientists do.
You say like, how likely is it that this vaccine
is going to improve your life
and prevent some disease versus it's gonna kill you?
And for most vaccines,
it's very important to know that likelihood ratio,
but you're always comparing the null hypothesis, okay?
The null hypothesis is this is not going to do any harm
or any benefit,
or in this case, there are no aliens
as my null hypothesis.
Then take this ratio and we could do a mathematical function
that will predict what are the different levels.
In other words, should it be 99% confidence?
Should it be 50% confidence, which is almost useless,
or should it be 99.99% confidence?
In hypothesis, it's called hypothesis testing.
And then you have to question,
what if there are aliens and you assume that they're not?
So you get a false negative, okay?
So if Brian Keating is right,
then I'm responsible for a huge false negative,
or if you say there's a false positive,
you are claiming there are aliens when there aren't aliens.
Those are both errors, right?
In both cases, you're wrong.
You'd like it to be there are aliens.
If there are aliens, you detect that there are aliens.
Or if there are no aliens,
you rule out the existence of aliens.
Those are the kind of correct answers.
And then there's two different ways you can be wrong.
False positive, false negative.
Which is worse?
Like, you go to the doctor.
The doctor says to you, Danny, you got cancer.
Which would you rather have there be?
He's false positive or false negative?
Right, false positive.
But normally what happens is you might get
a false negative, right?
I mean, that's much more common,
because it's hard to see small amounts of cancer,
for example.
It's also hard to see small amounts of UFOs, right?
These things have been able to travel
across interstellar distances, right?
And the old joke, Elon Musk keeps making a lot.
Why is photo quality so bad?
Why is the video, why is it so crappy?
The cell phones have gotten so much better.
I think I have some explanations for that, by the way.
Or here's my other favorite one.
And again, I'm steelmaning my opponents.
Not my enemies, just my intellectual opponents.
I don't believe, I don't not want to believe it.
By the way, let me put a pin in the explanation
for why these things keep happening where they do.
But I, and good physicists like Eric,
or others, even people that aren't physicists
that are skeptical, they, Avi Lo, is a good example.
He's a skeptic, he doesn't believe,
and he's got vested interest in millions
and perhaps billions of dollars in the Galileo project
and all the other things he's doing.
And he'd be great for you to talk to.
I talked to him, he's not here.
Okay, great.
So my question is, who would be more overjoyed
at the existence of some, I mean, whatever,
if again, assume there are aliens for this time being,
have they led to the independence day
like destruction of the earth?
No, right?
We're still here.
Yes.
You know, maybe they're planning something,
but like so far they've been benevolent or benign.
Right, that haven't bothered us, right?
Who would be more overjoyed with a race, a species,
a civilization of technologically advanced aliens?
Who would be more thrilled than physicists?
We would be, I mean, you see how we get with like chatGPT,
which is like nothing compared to the kind of intelligence
it would take to make an alien spacecraft
that can traverse the galaxy and bend space and time.
Right, in other words, physicists have a vested interest
in aliens existing.
In other words, I will say, I want to believe,
I want there to be aliens to tell us
about the physics of the 29th century.
I don't wanna wait that long.
I wanna know, I'm gonna live for another 50 years maybe.
I wanna learn as much as possible while I'm still alive.
Aliens can help be the ultimate cliff notes
to help me understand it.
And so I have a vested interest in there being aliens, okay?
But I, as I say, I'm skeptical about it, okay?
And I mentioned, there's this kind of joke,
again, in Elonism, gotta love Elon,
but he's like, oh, these aliens are so advanced.
They navigated from the closest star system,
Proxima Centauri, B, at traveling at,
quarter the speed of light would take 25 years
and do untold damage to whatever biologics are in there.
And it would require basically the warping of space time
to accelerate to these speeds, anything macroscopic,
like the size of a spacecraft, like a tic-tac.
Almost an infinite supply of energy, propulsion,
safari warp drives, whatever you want, okay?
Yeah.
But they crash in the island of Catalina
off the coast of Los Angeles.
They, like, crash somewhere in Roswell.
In other words, they're so skilled
that they traverse the entire galaxy,
but they can't, no, no, no, really,
because they crash all the time.
I don't think that's what a lot of people believe.
A lot of people believe that they're from here,
that they're living under the oceans
and they're coming from here.
They're coming from the oceans and they're,
I mean, that's what safari believe.
That's what a lot of people I talk to on here believe.
They're not coming from other galaxies.
They're actually here.
So like Atlantis?
No, well, yeah, maybe, maybe Atlantis, I don't know.
But they think that these things are coming from the oceans
and these things maybe live under the oceans
or they're walking among us.
Or maybe there are people that are out there,
like me and you or Elon Musk, more likely,
that are genetically also like this alien race, right?
They look and talk like me and you,
but they don't look like the aliens we see in the movies,
but they're technically aliens.
And or this technology that's flying around
that they're seeing is not necessarily,
it's not coming from another star system.
It's coming from here somewhere and it's remaining hidden.
Well, so I'm talking more about the types of alien,
like Roswell.
Roswell, to my knowledge, was from the ocean.
It was from another start,
reticulum, whatever, omega.
So, but I just want to make a statement about that.
When, if you do hear that, again,
I'm supporting the fact pattern
that should be amenable to many members of your audience
and not to ingratiate myself,
but because it's a legitimate, as a scientist,
you should actually specify all the ways you could be wrong.
I'm telling you, all the ways Brian Keating could be wrong.
So in this case, though, those that say
that it's impossible to believe
that these advanced civilizations crashed,
after navigating their whole way
across the entire galaxy, right?
No, actually, it's a very common effect.
Something like six times,
so I don't want to say this jinxed myself,
I'm getting on a plane and what, an hour and a half.
So something like six times,
you're six times more likely to be involved
in a plane that crashes upon landing
than you are at any other phase in flight.
Even though the fraction of that plane being in landing
is only a few minutes, a few seconds.
Landing and takeoff, right?
Yeah, takeoff is also dangerous,
but landing in particular seems,
and it's a whole landing process,
not just like touching down the runway.
And these aren't fatal crashes.
I mean, 90% of crashes people walk away from,
most commercial airlines, and please God,
it should hold true at least through tonight when I get home.
Not sure on that Malaysian flight
with the UFOs that are floating.
Oh yeah, you were, you had been talking about that, right?
Yeah, Julian got caught up in a bunch of drama.
I have not investigated.
Just don't even look at it, don't waste your time.
You know, when that was happening,
it was right when my, the experiment described
in my first book, Losing the Nobel Prize,
was we were made the announcement
on the front page of the New York Times
that we discovered the origin of the universe
as evidenced by these waves of gravity.
And so, yeah, that was right
when Putin invaded Crimea the first time,
and when the Malaysian Airlines tragically crashed.
So we shared the New York Times top billing
with those events.
Anyway, so it's not at all unexpected
that if these spacecraft were traveling,
that they would crash in the final segment.
And to give the people like Elon and say,
oh, well, you know, why is the video camera so crappy?
And why is it that this, again, another thing,
it's called the zoo hypothesis.
These are just ways that you could evade the Fermi paradox.
And so basically it's a Fermi paradox
is a interesting scientific.
He was a physicist, a theoretical
and experimental physicist, last of a breed.
He was at Los Alamos too, wasn't he?
Yeah, he was a huge, he was one of the,
he invented the first controlled chain reaction
at the University of Chicago.
At Fermilab is named after him
and people have claimed weird things in Fermilab.
But the Fermi paradox is,
the universe is so big, it should be continued with aliens.
How come we haven't seen any?
Of course, a lot of people believe we have seen them
and just it's being covered up.
But the question as to why the video quality is so bad
or why they would choose to come here,
when you think about what is interesting about Earth,
is Earth interesting?
Is it worth them coming to take a look at?
A lot of people say no.
And a lot of people though,
you look at how amazing life is on Earth
and how amazing human beings are.
To me, it'll be a natural place for them to come and visit.
And so, yeah, when you think about, well, what interests them
and why would they allow themselves to be seen?
So there's something called the zoo hypothesis
I mentioned a second ago.
The zoo hypothesis is that they're here,
but just like when you go to the zoo,
you don't like go and knock on the window of the gorillas
and keep bothering them.
Or Jane Goodall, the primatologist.
So when she would go to the Serengeti,
she would go, hey, everybody, you know, hey.
Taking all these flash paparazzi-type camera pictures.
I guess you wouldn't do that.
In this case, when the, let's say the aliens did come,
again, don't believe this, personally,
or I don't have evidence for this,
but if it were true that they left
when they first discovered that human beings were alive
and could produce things,
the very first technological signature we blasted out
into space was like the 1936 Olympic Games,
something like that.
First, widely televised, not over cable TV,
but over the air, so it was free to propagate.
Now they wouldn't see anything,
or they would see very little
because most stuff goes under the ocean.
So it was broadcasting through satellite into outer space.
So 70, 80 years ago, they could have known about it.
So what's 70, 80 years ago,
what kind of technology do they think that we had?
So let's say they start off, oh, human beings over there,
planet three sol, you know, it's in the solar system,
you know, it's green blue planet, let's go there.
They set off 80 years ago.
They're looking at the technology that we had then, right?
So they wouldn't say, oh, we should make sure
we cloak ourselves and are stealthy
because they have iPhone 15s, they don't know about that.
In other words, they left, they're not, you know,
they're the technology that then maybe as they travel,
they could have learned about our technology
as it keeps increasing, but not only at the rate
at which we were broadcasting into the, you know,
they just learned about iPhone 15 when you and I did, right?
Like three months ago.
So in other words, it shouldn't, it's not surprising.
So a lot of these things are, I think, you know,
basically pandering to like, oh, they're not there.
Here's, you can just dismiss it
because the video quality is crappy.
They wouldn't crash land if they're such expert pilots
and they wouldn't allow themselves to be seen.
Those are completely illegitimate arguments against it,
supporting a position I believe in, which are faith in,
or evidence for, which is that they don't exist.
So I think it's important as a scientist to do that.
And I think the more you talk to experimentalists,
the better, people are actually building stuff,
you know, grappling with law.
If you brought Edward Whitten in here, you know,
I don't know if he could, you know,
turn on the Wi-Fi and get the Wi-Fi up to boot again.
You know, the theoretical physicists are very different
than experimental physicists.
They have a different skill set.
It's much more like a mathematician.
I don't think anyone would say,
let's get the mathematicians in here.
Although, you know, people like Stephen Wolfram
have done things with like alien,
like deciphering alien language in the movie Arrival.
He was a consultant on that.
So, and Kip Thorne actually did a lot of work
in the movie Interstellar.
So, yeah, these are things that are of interest,
but I almost am betting against my own self-interest.
When you talk to Ryan, did he mention to you
the thing with the cube and the sphere?
Yeah, I mean, he had said that that's what his fellow pilots
had claimed that they had seen,
and then we're seeing almost continuous bases.
Yeah, so from what I understood was
when they saw the cube and the sphere,
they were flying, and then all of a sudden,
like they just passed this thing,
and then he said it was like right off of their,
like the left or the right hand of the plane,
like off the wingspan, necessarily,
they didn't necessarily see it.
That's not what I heard.
Oh, really, what did you hear?
Well, I asked him that specifically as a pilot.
I was like, how close were these things?
And he said they flew between us,
and he said that multiple times,
and I said, you have to be more clear,
how close were you?
Cause my best friend, one of my best friends,
our recliner man who's a Princeton physics graduate
and a commander in the Navy,
he actually has higher rank than Ryan,
their buddies, he went to his wedding.
And so Ryan was right there,
and I said, when you guys are flying in these formations,
how close are you guys?
He said over a mile apart, typically a mile apart.
Really?
So two planes separated by a mile,
that means the closest, you know,
that they could have been to this thing is half a mile,
and they might have perfect vision,
but the cube they described is about a meter across,
something like that, and the sphere surrounding it.
I was scared it might stop,
but I believe that's what it was, about a meter or so.
So to the visual acuity to see something,
imagine you got half a mile
with 10 football fields or more,
and you're looking at the football,
how could you tell the football was one foot big,
or could you tell it was three feet big?
If it wasn't glowing or doing something,
it's very difficult to do.
And again, no spurs is unright.
I think what he's doing is very important.
And I also think that, you know,
he is not claiming he saw it, and it's just like Rush,
Rush is not claiming he saw these things.
He's saying he has knowledge of people that have seen it.
And in the case of Grush,
I don't know what his motivations might be.
I'd love to talk to him.
He seems like a great, you know, again,
courageous, valorous, a patriotic, whatever,
but he's not claiming these things.
Ryan has a motive.
He actually has a motive,
and it happens to be a beneficent one, a good one,
in that he's concerned about the safety of his fellow pilots,
which actually made me a little bit suspicious,
not enough him.
I mean, I love him.
He's had been to my house for dinner.
I really enjoy Ryan.
But he described, and we talked about it.
Did you find it?
You want it?
Yeah, yeah, throw it up.
Yeah, he's got it.
Continue, sorry.
So Ryan didn't have this particular fact happen to him,
but Fravor did.
I don't know if you remember the interview
when he did with Lex Friedman and others,
but he said, you know, he saw this tic-tac,
and then almost by the time he landed back
on the aircraft carrier,
his fellow pilots were just hazing him mercilessly,
and he was like outranking them.
So I could understand like a little bit of teasing
or whatever, but they basically didn't believe him.
And now Ryan's saying this is happening
all the time off the coast of Virginia.
By the way, they're both in warning areas,
both in the same type of aircraft.
One, Ryan's aircraft and the ones that have been seeing this
had just been upgraded to a new type of camera.
Again, they use these cameras to lock on to see,
you know, they'll do everything from a,
my friend Ariel, I don't think it's classified,
I think he talked, but he shot down an Iranian drone
over the Persian Gulf during the Iraq war.
You know, they see these things all the time,
and it was right after they upgraded the systems.
Why did they upgrade them?
They have to calibrate them
and they have to get better and better systems.
Fravers one was 20 years old now,
by now about 20 years old and 10 years older
than the one that Ryan Graves had been using
or his squadron.
So the question is, why would they be, you know,
kind of hazing somebody?
If indeed it was causing this grave threat
and something's happening all the time,
you know, why is it happening in these warning areas?
You know, why is it happening in places
where they do training?
It's not happening.
Why aren't there, by ratio of, you know, proportion,
you know, tens of thousands of commercial pilots,
private pilots like me, you know, seeing it, reporting it.
I could see if you're a commercial pilot
and you report this.
If you get hazed in the Navy,
they're not gonna kick you out,
they're just gonna put like a fuzzy alien on your bunk.
If you're flying for American Airlines
and you keep reporting this,
you probably would get either put on, you know,
a psychiatric leave or something like that.
So there's a big imperative to keep quiet,
probably for those people, but people like me,
you know, just private pilots flying, you know,
sometimes I fly cancer patients to get treatments
and it's called Angel Flight, which is a great charity,
people should be aware of.
There's no incentive for me not to report this.
There's no reporting platform that is as good
as the one that Ryan's going to make
with the Americans for Safe Aerospace.
So there's a motive, it's a good one for him to do it.
You have to ask, why aren't there more sightings
by people that have no skin in the game?
That's a question I have.
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by SEED.
Have you ever been in a situation
where you had a gut feeling and it paid off?
There's a reason you trust your gut.
And that's why our enteric nervous system,
which regulates the gut,
is often called the body's second brain.
SEED's DS01 daily synbiotic is a new standard
in probiotic, which supports digestive,
skin, heart and gut health.
Its non-fermenting formula is supported
by clinical trials and scientific studies
and delivers what you need, where you need it.
I personally use SEED because it helps support
my body's ability to break down fats and lipids.
And it maintains my blood cholesterol levels
already in the healthy range.
And with SEED's DS01 synbiotic, it's two capsules in one.
The outer layer dissolves in your stomach
with fiber that feeds your gut bacteria.
And the inner capsule is designed to travel
all the way to the colon
for the precision-delivered payload.
Additionally, SEED is rigorously tested
for 14 classes of allergens
defined by the European Food Safety Authority.
Listen to your gut with SEED's DS01 daily synbiotic.
Go to seed.com forward slash Danny
and use the code 25DANNY to get 25% off your first month.
That's 25% off your first month
of SEED's daily DS01 synbiotic at seed.com forward slash Danny,
code 25DANNY.
Back to the show.
So this is an interesting article.
My friend Jeremy Ries pointed this out to me.
Scroll down.
Yeah, I've talked to Jeremy before.
Okay, so this is a patent.
And this is a radar deflector that was used during,
I think it was developed during like the Bay of Pigs
to spoof radar.
Yeah, it's like the US patent, two million.
Yeah, so can you zoom in on the text?
Nine million, so it's probably 60 or 50.
Can you zoom in, punch in a little bit on so we read it?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Scroll up.
Yeah, airborne counter-reflectors on your bicycle.
High altitude balloons,
if any of the radar cross-section metallic,
yeah, yeah, yeah.
So it tells you the exact patent number.
And that thing looks exactly like what they described.
Yeah, no.
The cube inside the sphere.
And here's another thing I can say with great accuracy.
I guarantee that these exist.
If you lived in a world where these didn't exist,
say you get a letter from God,
these things don't exist, these balloons don't exist
for benign purposes, for calibration and sensor testing.
If you said they're forbidden by every treaty
on every country on earth like anthraxes, okay?
Then you'd say, well, there's less probability,
but there's probably still some leftover.
But now you tell me, which I thank you for,
these are common, these are probably in use
by every military on earth to train their stuff.
I saw this video of like Ukrainian drone pilots
that are dropping like tank shells
and they're so poor, their military is saying,
you know, I'm not gonna take signs or whatever,
but they still, they have radar jamming
and they have anti-drone channel jamming technology
that spoofs makes a fake drone appear, right?
Right, exactly.
They have this with like no money.
And so I guarantee, so we are both in agreement.
It makes it look like a fleet is coming at you
and there's nothing coming at you.
Nothing comes, you waste all your attention, right?
These warheads have multiple targets in them.
Right, and if you were to test this
on in front of US military training site,
you want, and they just upgraded their radar,
why wouldn't you want to be trying to test it?
Exactly, where would you have this?
That's a very good point.
Yep, appreciate that.
So that's, I mean, that's sort of my belief
as to what this thing is.
I think it's some, I mean, you know,
I've read this book by Annie Jacobson
called The Pentagon's Brain.
It's all about the history of DARPA,
the Defense Advanced Research.
Oh, wow.
And I mean, they have been testing things
like Neuralink since the early 90s on like soldiers.
Like putting like, putting shit in their heads
that makes them immune to pain and all kinds of crazy stuff.
They want to make a super soldier.
Yeah, making a super soldier.
And they're pushing the limits.
Like they're going into the impossible literally like 30 years
before the public cares about this kind of stuff.
Think about what these other countries that have zero,
like you think Vladimir Putin really isn't going to try
like much more advanced shit that we would never do.
Even with as despicably as we treated,
my stepfather was in the Vietnam War
and he's told me incredible stories in combat
and how it's gonna come.
They did horrible things to our soldiers.
And our soldiers are like, you know,
some of our bravest people, two of my best friends are Afghan.
They're both like permanently disabled.
Marines, army infantry, and they were done
for like just bullshit reasons.
They shouldn't have been in these wars.
And so they took the best of America
and they do fucking experiments on them.
They do this to this day.
But again, does that prove that there aren't aliens?
No, of course not.
You just have to be skeptical.
And again, always look at the story.
There are people that, you know, people say,
oh, Michael Schirmer, he doesn't want to believe an alien.
You know, he's got like,
like what is the incentive for him not to believe in it?
He is, you know, for people that dislike him
and he's a friend of mine.
I've written articles with him.
I've debated him, you know, and we have a friendly debate.
So the point is, you have to ask like Kwee Bono,
who benefits, why would you do,
why would you take this position?
What is he covering up?
Or Avi Loeb, I've seen, oh, he's covering up for the,
Avi Loeb has an incentive for alien,
not only for his book deals
and you know, becoming number one bestseller again,
you know, but also just for his scientific curiosity.
This is a guy who's like dedicated his life now
and his career and his reputation towards like,
not only, you know, seeing the existence of other aliens
as a plausible proposition,
but that maybe as he claimed on my podcast this week,
that alien, you know, something from another alien
civilization potentially with materials
that indicate it's come from outside of our solar system,
crashed in Papua New Guinea and we can go and retrieve it
and see if it's actually from metallurgical processes,
not natural cosmic respiration processes.
Now, like getting back to this whole thing,
when I start to see the New York times
and the Pentagon start to corroborate these stories
and lockstep, that's when I really start to question it.
And like when it comes to these videos,
like that they released, right?
Like the GoFast, the Gimbal,
and well, I'll forget what the other one was.
Who the, I was talking to Ryan,
who named those videos, who came up with that name GoFast?
Who came up with that name Gimbal?
Because those, I know the pilots did not.
Yeah, so one of the, so there's a set,
and again, talk to Ryan, talk to my friend Ariel,
but there's a set of military, so after a flight,
every plane that flies for one hour
has a scrutiny around it of about 10 hours,
just for the debrief.
So when they come back, they land on the carrier
or they land at the Air Force, you know,
and they debrief the flight every single minute,
because every minute costs about $8,000
in total investment for every single plane.
Imagine how much money we have, right?
And then there's 10 hours of maintenance
for every single plane that goes, all right?
So that's separate from that.
They review all the gun cameras,
they view all the sensor data, they review everything.
People pour over, and there's some analysts, you know,
who, you know, in the past, you know,
before we had drone operators,
there were people that were officers,
that would be intelligence officers,
and they would review stuff,
and then like when they would review it,
they'd listen to something and they'd just name it.
So Gimbal is just a camera on a platform like a GoPro,
or not a GoPro, but you know, one of those stabilized things.
And the other one, GoFast,
I think one of the pilots says,
well, look at that thing, it's fast or whatever,
and then they just call it that.
Then there are other ones that have been, you know,
fairly like the Bokeh and those ones,
I mean, this guy, Mick West.
The Triangles. Yeah, the Triangles.
A lot of those things are artifacts of cameras.
So the question is, you know,
can you explain all of these things?
Am I a colleague and actually mentor
and president of the Simons Foundation, David Spurgle,
was the chairman of the NASA committee on UAP research
that announced its findings this past summer.
And I think that they said some very large fraction
was explainable by natural events,
but there's always gonna be that, you know,
12 to 30% that's not explainable.
And the question is, at what level
do you start to ascribe conspiracy, cover-ups,
versus the honest admission of a scientist,
the three most important words
that any scientist must be able to say.
And if they can't, they're not a scientist,
and that's I don't know.
And that's again, getting back to our friend Jack,
he'll never say that.
Never say I was wrong.
I don't know.
It's always, I know, and you idiots
aren't listening to me and you're a spunk.
And so good luck, you know,
you're not gonna really get too many takers there.
Yeah.
And, you know, if the government's been lying to us
about this or covering it up for 80 years,
what makes you think that they're gonna all of a sudden
come out and wanna tell the truth?
Yeah, or that the cover-up that lasted
for 80 years of durability,
once it does crack, there's not a flood,
like that everything doesn't come out.
I mean, the question of that.
Like they're not controlling it.
Yeah, that they have such power to control for generations,
like multiple generations.
And by the way, it's not just like, you know,
the guy who saw the spacecraft crash in Roswell.
Okay, what do they do?
Just think realistically.
What would you have to do?
Just again, Roswell's my paradigm.
I'm not saying I believe anything is legitimate
about it being bodies and spacecraft and whatever.
You know, it could have some, it could not, right?
But some guy, some general knew about it, okay?
Someone discovered, some farmer discovers it.
Then they call the military base nearby.
Then they send out a truck.
Then there's four guys on the truck.
Then they drop the truck,
has a crane operator on the back.
Then they drop that, they pick it up,
they drive it to the warehouse.
Then they store it in the warehouse
and somebody has to guard the warehouse.
The warehouse has to be climate controlled.
Then it has to be,
and then you have to do all this paperwork.
And then take all those people,
I've already named 10 of them, take all those people.
They have 10 people in their lives,
kids, brothers, sisters, wives, husbands, whatever.
100 people, just in generation zero.
The first time that these people discover, right?
1947, correct?
And then they have kids.
And then those 10 generations,
those 10 people have kids.
The 100 people have kids.
It becomes enormous.
And to say that all those people have not,
you know, spilled the beans, if you like,
on the biggest story in human cons history, right?
This is so much bigger than even the tragic assassination
of JFK, I mean, that affected one person.
Obviously tragically,
a huge country was affected by it,
but it was one person,
and that's so relatively easier to cover that.
Even that hasn't been effectively covered up
for very long, with government mandating
that you can't open up the official records for 50 years.
So yeah, it stretches the mind.
Doesn't mean it's not true.
What is it that Eric was harping on so hard on,
I don't know if it was on Rogan's podcast,
or if it was with that guy, Jesse Michaels,
but he was talking to how put off the ex-scientologist guy,
also the remote viewer guy from SRI,
and they were talking to him,
he was basically explaining how in the 50s,
I think it was Ed Witton's dad,
they were like making a lot of progress on anti-gravity,
and then all of a sudden it went,
the research went dark, like it stopped out of nowhere.
So was he alluding to like the government took it over,
or like it went dark,
meaning like it went dark under like a special access program
or something?
Well, yeah, so it's not really clear.
Eric has an incredible ability to kind of explain things,
to be curious, to illustrate things
with amazing analogies,
and with a commanding knowledge of history,
and a commanding knowledge of mathematics and physics.
So Jack said, oh, he's just a mathematician,
that's bullshit.
He's much, much more than that.
He's creative, he's generative,
but what he's not good at doing
is like writing stuff up in a fricking book.
So I'm like, Eric, you've got seven books in you,
help me, help you, write a book,
put these ideas into place,
because you can't just like,
every time you go on my podcast,
or on Jesse's or whatever,
have these statements or Rogan's,
there's no durability to that.
I actually told this to Rogan
about motivating him to write a book
because no one's gonna go back and listen.
I was episode 2023, it was a cool number,
easy to remember.
I don't know what the hell episode,
the first time Eric was on,
no one's gonna go back and watch Eric the first time
he was on episode 1432.
So if he wrote a book about it,
and summarized the coolest topics in Aliens,
and like Second Deluxe Joe,
no matter what, you're gonna talk about Second Deluxe
when you talk with Joe,
but just like the silly one to a chapter,
he doesn't even have to write it,
billions of people would write it for him for free.
Anyway, Eric has to do the same thing,
I'm trying to get him to do it,
we'll see if that will actually work.
But what he was saying about this gravity program,
there was a North Carolina UNC, I believe it was,
and a research triangle area.
They, Ed Witton's father, who wasn't really,
he was a physicist of some renown,
but not as great a renown as son,
who's a mathematical physicist, Edward,
but they had working on what's called the Gravity Prize,
and they had money and incentives,
and there was some papers apparently written
about anti-gravity, and I was joking,
I tried to find those papers, they're so good,
I couldn't put those anti-gravity papers down,
because they're anti-gravity, Danny, come on,
I can't put it down.
I got it.
Come on, I gotta bring the dad jokes, brother.
You don't let me, one dad joke
on this beloved podcast, I'm doing.
The best thing I've ever heard is the term Ju-Nerzy,
I really appreciate you saying that on Julien's podcast.
That's right, that's right.
I won't let that go.
I gotta give him some, too sure.
So, yeah, allegedly, according to Eric, yeah,
they had this, and now Eric has found some material
that he claims like in an Australian patent,
and this is stuff that Grush had mentioned
on Joe Rogan's podcast, and it does relate,
and I think they did bring this up.
But again, as I asked you earlier,
and I think you answered properly and in a certain sense,
like, is the technology that's needed to do these things,
you're really prejudiced if you say that it's necessary
to have new laws of physics that we don't understand.
This is Eric's claim, actually.
He actually believes that the only way to get off
of the Earth's surface and make it to instantiate
a second cosmic home is not with a chemical rocket
of SpaceX, it's to change the laws of physics.
Is that changing the laws of physics, though,
with some of the ideas of having some sort of,
like Bob Lazar explained with his basketball reactor
that was powered with Element 115, I think it was,
and he says basically like he tried to touch it
and it like repelled his hand off like a magnet.
And if you had something like that,
and he showed like the diagrams of it of how basically
it creates this field around the aircraft
to where it's when it's moving like this,
it's falling through space.
Like it's almost like if you drop something,
it's moving that way.
All right, and these are his ideas.
There's something he claims he's seen made
or it could be in person,
because I mean, he's not a great physicist.
He's not, I mean, Lazar's not a physicist at all.
I don't think he is a physicist, right?
No, he claims he was like a pilot.
But then there are all these questions that he,
was he really attentive?
Did he have all the credentials that he claims that he had?
And did he see the things or have access to things?
Even people like Jeremy, Jeremy's an amateur physicist too.
I mean, he has a bachelor's degree in physics
and he's like studying all this stuff.
And he says that it's not,
doesn't define the laws of physics,
it's just creating, you need the amount,
you need a high, high, high amount of energy to do it.
And it said it's impossible to...
Right, either a high amount, large amount of energy
or a minuscule amount of energy and infinite amount of space.
So we do know about anti-gravity.
It's called dark energy or cosmological constant.
It seems to be the force that's causing galaxies
to accelerate at greater and greater velocities
with every passing day.
Something that won the Nobel Prize
for two, three of my friends in the year 2011.
And I've had them all on my podcast.
And it's as well-known a phenomenon as exists.
But the problem is that energy level
differs from the so-called zero point energy level
by something like 120 orders of magnitude.
And they're kind of characteristic energy scale
that we see, that we know about,
that pushes galaxies apart
and perhaps inflated the universe at early times.
Those things related to so-called zero point fluctuations,
chasmier effects, a cubiary, warp drives.
And they're infinite, almost like you say,
infinite, almost near infinite amount of energy.
So it's not only manipulate,
we have no way to like say,
use the energy of the acceleration of space-time.
We can't do that.
There's no way to couple into it.
And we actually know extremely little about it.
So the question I always have is,
okay, so now you've got this theory of this anti-gravity,
which no one has demonstrated
except for the cosmos at large,
which is, again, resulted
in at least three Nobel Prizes so far.
That nobody else knows about this.
That like, what would be the incentive
to not expose this, to get credit,
to win a Nobel Prize,
to make millions and billions of dollars?
Why would this not be more,
why is Bob Lazar is like, not a scientist,
not military trained, you know,
I mean, what is the incentive to believe that such a person,
other than you want to believe it?
It sounds really plausible, it sounds cool.
It could explain things that you have no access to.
And so tying together like a whole bunch of things
that are each incredibly improbable.
The US government has conspiracy.
These craft have traveled great distances.
There are new laws of physics that they operate by.
Doesn't make them more credible.
It makes it much, much less credible.
If you multiply probabilities,
which is how they add together, if you like,
you multiply, like, you have a 10% chance of it raining,
my flight's 10% chance of leaving on time,
if the rain is being out here.
And then there's a 1% chance
that the Uber driver will be on time to get me here,
which hopefully will be coming soon.
And not that I don't enjoy talking to you,
it's just, I enjoy putting my kids to bed.
Jesus Christ, it's already 2.30.
I know, all the time flies, you're having fun.
But putting these things together
makes it less likely, not more likely.
And that's the thing that kind of just goes,
you know, it gnaws at me when these things like,
okay, to explain that,
now you need a really impossible thing,
which is the laws of physics have to be unknown to us,
new laws that these things can manipulate,
which again would be fascinating to me.
But let me just double click on that for one second.
It's often said that like the laws of physics
lead to these new types of technology.
At least that's kind of the syllogism
that people are using, right?
These aliens, if they invented,
if they had the laws of physics
that permitted anti-gravity, right?
That you could extract some technology from it.
That technology in turn would be used to get to the earth
from Proxima Centauri, right?
That's sort of an argument that would be used, right?
It's a way to explain how they're here, right?
Because our current laws with chemical rockets
and biological aging processes of DNA, right,
do not permit us to get to any solar system, right?
And that's the only life form we know exist.
And that's the only physics we know exist, right?
The laws of physics by definition.
But I ask you, did we use to get,
let's say the most advanced thing that humans
have ever built in terms of laws of physics.
Let's just say it was the Trinity bomb,
you know, it was the atomic bombs that were used, right?
Did the scientists that were working,
you saw Oppenheimer, right?
Yeah.
So I didn't explain her video
just as a small advertiser
because people weren't interested in the physics
and there's almost no physics in that movie, right?
Right.
But so I did a video called The Physics of Oppenheimer
where a professor explains the bomb.
So if people are interested in the hardcore physics
and the history of it, they can find that on YouTube channel.
It's on your YouTube channel.
It's on my YouTube channel.
So, but did they look at the laws of physics?
Like was Oppenheimer, was he a physicist
in the sense that like he looked at the new laws of physics
and then from those laws of physics came up with technology?
No, or was he mostly an engineer?
Like has been, remember the big process
he put in the marbles and plutonium versus uranium?
It was a technology trouble.
It was a technology problem.
We had to create the Oak Ridge National Laboratory,
Hanford nuclear sites.
We had to do things to produce a yielding,
like what Iran is doing now?
Iran is reputedly building a bomb, right?
Are they using the laws of physics?
Are they going back to quantum mechanics
and solving the Schrodinger equation?
No, it's a technology problem, right?
My point is, it's not enough to say that
like the laws of physics have to be manipulated.
You also need a way of improving the laws of technology
to extract those laws.
It's often said, well, your computer screen,
the internet in here, the camera sensors,
those are based on semiconductors and they are true.
Semiconductors are based on the laws of quantum mechanics.
The very first transistor,
nobody looked at the laws of Schrodinger,
which is really what governs the transistor equation.
And more advanced statistical mechanics,
but nothing like group theory or string theory was needed,
right? Right.
But even they didn't use the laws of physics
to invent technology,
which was the previous most advanced technology maybe,
or actually it came after the nuclear bomb, right?
So all this is just to say that having new laws of physics,
I don't think it's even necessary condition
for aliens to be here or have new technology.
It may not, it's certainly not a sufficient,
if you just had new laws of physics.
And like I said earlier, if I told you,
string theory had been invented on Proxima Centauri B,
would it matter to you?
Let me ask you this question.
Let's say aliens invent metallurgy and chemical rockets,
that for some reason can advance them to very high velocities
or their biology allows them to live
for trillions of years, right?
If I said they invented that,
would you say, well, they still have to invent string theory
or they still have to invent warp theory
or whatever Jack has, right?
In other words, what was more important,
the technology or the pure science,
the applied science or the pure science
for teleporting across the-
The applied science. Exactly.
So these things about the anti-gravity conference
of Ed Whitton's father in 1913,
so are these questions of relevance
to the discovery of evidence
for aliens being here on Earth?
I don't know.
I don't know that it's so important to,
let's say they were doing anti-gravity research,
whatever that. Right.
We certainly don't have
any anti-gravity technology right now.
That would be no one. Yeah, Flubber, I mean.
I mean, what Fravor said that he saw, right?
So Fravor also? That sounds like an anti-gravity.
So I don't know anything about this.
So Fravor, the pilot who witnessed with his eyes
a tic-tac also has knowledge about,
you sure it's Fravor and not Grush?
I thought Fravor was the one who saw the tic-tac.
Yeah. Yeah.
So he also claims that he has saw separate evidence
or you're saying the existence of the tic-tac
moving the way it did.
Moving the way it did.
That would be anti-gravity, right?
If it bent bending space up.
So if there was something in there,
it would turn to gelatin if it was not anti-gravity, right?
If it could create a pocket where it just moves around
and nothing is affected.
Again, so this is again,
synthesizing a whole bunch of claims
that may or may not be related.
So that he saw it, that it was witnessed by other sensors,
that the sensors weren't spoofed.
Cause there are many ways to move.
I can make something move faster than the speed of light.
You just give me a laser pointer, right?
I mean, I can do it.
I can have a signal that changes faster
that doesn't transmit information.
That's just a visibility, right?
And who's to say that there's something inside there
at all, right? Exactly.
And by the way, again,
let's say these creatures are incredibly advanced.
Do you think the first things that we sent to,
will we know for sure?
They're definitely not, they're drone.
They're 3D printed things.
They're not biological.
And the only thing that's biological in them
are the fingerprints and the exhalation.
I had Craig Ventner on who is the man
who sent the sequence to the human genome
for the first time in 25 years ago.
And he was saying,
there's already Mars is covered in human shit.
Because there's just like no way
in this international space station.
And when they used the bathroom, they invented the space
and they found the outside of the space station
is covered with the human microbiome.
So it's like, already we've contaminated it.
Now my question is,
I like to do this as a thought experiment.
What if I told you that there was life
on another planetary system?
It's a multi-planetary system like ours is, okay?
So it's a star system.
It has a type G2 subdwarf yellow star,
just like our sun, same size.
And it has two planets in the habitable zone.
You're familiar with the habitable zone, right?
The Goldilocks zone.
The Goldilocks zone, exactly.
I told you there's two planets there.
And good news.
One is teeming with life.
Life everywhere, life in underwater oceans, ice caps.
Even in the atmosphere, there's life
and so forth of this planet.
There's another planet.
We haven't had time to slew the James Webb telescope over too
to take a peek.
But we wanna ask you, Danny, what's the odds?
One of the odds that that object has life on it.
The one right next door. Just life, yeah.
Not technology, not the iPhone.
I would say there's gotta be a high likelihood
of having life on there.
So I submit to you, this is another gift for you.
This is a chunk of the moon.
The moon?
I gave Joe Rogan a piece of Mars.
I gave Julian just a crappy meteorite.
I get a part of the moon.
You get a sliver of the moon.
Just cause I forgot.
Sorry, Julian.
Thank you very much.
Next time I see you brother, I'm gonna do it.
But Julian, you know that Danny let you
have the first dibs on me.
It was so beneficial.
He got such a bump.
I let Julian scoop me.
That's right, he let you get the scoop.
So I had to give him a little bit better
Hanukkah Christmas present, okay?
So how did that get here?
Besides me bringing in here,
how do you think this thing is here?
The moon?
Yeah, how do you think that piece of the moon got here?
Panspermia.
Panspermia, right.
So most people say, oh, you went to Houston and Rogan.
If you do that, so if this were collected by an astronaut,
I would be in jail now.
And you would be an accessory to murder.
And Steven, back behind the curtain would also go to jail.
So you'd be accessory to felony, right?
It's a felony to have own possession
of a fragment of the rocks that were collected
by the Apollo astronauts.
But NASA and the US government doesn't control gravity.
So where was this found?
This is found in Northwest Africa.
I'll send you a piece, I'll send you some information.
And how do you know it's part of the moon?
So it's the exact chemical composition
has been acquired for it.
And this is what I want to do.
It's been compared.
Yeah, and so for your audience,
I like to do a giveaway for your audience too.
If you've made it this far, so go to BrianKeating.com.
On my website, there's a giveaway.
I give away one chunk sometimes of these moon rocks,
but always every month I give away an actual meteorite.
And of the meteorite, we had it chemically analyzed
with X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy,
just blasted with X-rays.
And you'll get a print out of the chemical fingerprint
of these meteorites.
Oh, wow.
And if you have a .edu email address,
so if you're in college or grad school
or a professor or whatever,
go to BrianKeating.com slash edu
and you're guaranteed to win.
So ordinary people that aren't in university,
I'm trying to kind of give back to the university system.
So BrianKeating.com, other ones go there
and I'll send you the information about that
and I can send you information about the moon rock
that I gave to Danny.
I can't give you any information about Uranus though.
That's a private man.
So that got here by gravity, right?
So impacts hit the moon all the time.
They impacted Mars.
I gave Joe Rogan, I gave him a piece of Mars.
I have a chance of Mars meteorite, yeah.
I think he probably smoked it or something by now.
But the Mars meteor, Mars, the earth,
the moon, they all exchange material
for billions of years now.
So the fact that Mars is a cold, dead place,
as far as we can tell,
doesn't mean it was always cold and dead and lifeless,
but it is in the habitable zone.
Water can be in liquid form there.
There's ice underneath.
They actually think there's ice underneath
the surface of Mars.
Avi Loeb thinks there are caves with lava tubes
that could have, you know, he's like,
there could be aliens in there.
So all these things point to a very important conclusion,
which is that the exchange of material
throughout the solar system is ubiquitous.
The lack of life should be used
as some piece of evidence, not proof,
but accounting for in the likelihood ratio test
that I told you about earlier.
You should be able to ascribe some probability
to the lack of existence of life
and its facundity throughout the universe
based on the non-observation and the only planet
that we know could have had life in our solar system,
for sure.
So, wow.
Yeah.
So anyway, these things are great.
They're fun to talk about.
I think it's always, you know,
people get almost emotional and a religious capacity.
They definitely do.
People believe that, you know,
and the core fiber of who they are is their identity.
It's very hard to change someone's identity.
If you've ever had a Jehovah's Witness come to your house,
right, or pass an LDS church on the way over here, right?
Like, okay, I'm pretty thankful, you know,
other than where I'm at right now, I don't need it.
But if you say to them, you know, like,
tell me about aliens.
I guess some, you know, Scientologists,
maybe we shouldn't talk too much about this around here,
right, isn't clear water not too far from here?
We are literally 10 minutes away
from the headquarters of Scientology
where Elrond Hubbard parked his pirate ship.
This is his spaceship, right?
Yeah.
To Tulu or whatever you call it, right?
Yeah, no, it is very religious.
And even like I was talking,
me and Steve were talking about earlier,
like even people that are in like positions of authority
in government or even in NASA or NRO
or some of these agencies, a lot of them
because of their position or where they are
in the hierarchy and their, what they know,
like the information that they have
that's classified that no one else has, right?
They sort of, that is meaning in itself.
And if you are one of these people that,
I mean, a lot of these really smart people are anti-social.
Yeah.
And...
Introvert, anti-J.
Very high IQ, anti-social, introverts.
And they know things that many people don't know.
You know, you wake up, no matter what,
even if you're a plumber,
you got to prescribe some sort of a meaning
to what you do to get up out of bed every day.
And some of these people at a very high level,
they think, I've said it many times,
quoting my friend, Paul Rosalie,
is they think their lives are the Da Vinci Code.
That's right, yeah.
And when you start to talk about aliens and NASA
and the moon being built by aliens,
and we only know what these things are,
but you guys don't, it doesn't progress science
or it doesn't progress humanity.
Any sort of real sense, right?
It's threatening to them.
When you try to take away,
or even question about their identity,
it's very threatening to them, and it's natural, right?
I mean, you know, by the way,
if you want to know how to tell
when you do meet a scientist who's extroverted,
do you know how to do that?
How?
He'll talk to you and he'll look at your shoes
when he talks to you.
Oh!
Then you know 100% he is extroverted.
That's amazing.
Or she will discriminate.
Well, I think your Uber's here, Brian.
Thank you so much for your quick hour and a half podcast.
All the way from San Diego.
I'll come back in town and see my friend Jordan.
I got these stickers for you, Brian.
Oh, we got stickers, cool.
QR code stickers, you got that.
QR codes, you're watching out there, get that.
Yeah, yeah, tell.
Send this picture, you go right to the website.
Tell everyone where to subscribe.
I'll link your YouTube channel, everything below.
Yeah, just let it go to my YouTube channel.
I got a couple books out and got a chat bot.
I'm having a lot of fun with AI
and trying to figure out how to improve education.
I want to bring the cost of education down 10X
and spread it to the masses.
Because I do think the one way we're going to save the world
is to have more science, technology, and engineering,
and math.
I don't think we're going to do it
as great as gender studies is, as necessary as it is.
I don't think we're going to get to a place of protection.
And it may be, who knows?
These aliens underneath the ocean, right?
It may be that Musk is wrong that we,
well, it may be that he's right.
We have to get off the surface of the planet,
but maybe we have to do something to protect the planet
that we're already on.
It's a lot cheaper to save the planet you're on now
than to try to find another planet somewhere else
that you might be able to get to and die on the way, perhaps.
Right.
I mean, it's just to save ourselves
from another chickaloo.
Yeah, that's right.
Chickaloo.
Chickaloo.
Yeah, another or a younger, driest impact.
Yes, that's right.
We want to make our species survive,
so we got to get ourselves off the planet
and figure out how to terraform Mars
so we can live past all this.
And then clean Uranus.
When the next round of civilization rises on Earth,
we'll come back in our spaceships
and we'll confuse the shit out of them.
Awesome.
Thank you, brother.
Thanks, bro.
I appreciate it.
Goodbye, everybody.
