What's up everybody? Hope you enjoy this beautiful Florida skyline behind me.
So lately you probably noticed I've had to record these awkward little videos that roll before the
podcast plays because essentially I need to start begging you guys to subscribe to the YouTube channel.
People don't typically subscribe when they discover podcasts or discover videos on YouTube for the
first time and when people do subscribe YouTube knows to put us in front of more and more people
so we can keep growing the show. It's just the best way to do it.
That being said, the following podcast is with Andrew Ukels. He has been to the deadliest places
on earth, hand-catching man-eating beasts and I really believe that you guys are gonna love it.
Thank you to everyone who's been supporting and subscribing to the show. I can't thank you enough.
It's thanks to you guys. I'm not sleeping back here. So without further ado, please enjoy this
conversation with Andrew Ukels. The most dangerous things I've been exposed to have
been the diseases. I've caught so many but not as of yet. That's good. It's never too late.
Still early. You're still young. Exactly. How old are you? Just turned 36. We're at the same age.
Happy birthday, bro. How did you become a Australian survivalist, crazy wildlife person?
I guess I was just born in the right location. I think anyone from the area that I'm born in
Dapto, we've got some interesting characters out there. You don't even have to tell us we can
hear your accent. You know what's been interesting though? I think coming here to the US pending
on which state that I go to, I feel like my accent's clear. I feel like it's clear and it's
quite understandable as an English accent. I'll go to a lot of places in the US and then I'll just say,
slow down. I can't understand you. It's like, well, hold on one second. What am I doing? That's
wrong. But you can understand me. So Florida. It must be like a Florida thing. You can understand
the Australian accent. Yeah. Well, you've said off camera just a minute ago. Can you say that again?
What you said about Florida? I want to make sure we have that on record. 100%. So I think having
traveled to about 20 different states here in the US, Florida represents a state
that if I was going to come and live in, it would be here. I think because of the climate,
because of the wildlife. I think even when you're flying over it, like I was saying before,
just like the vegetation structure and the matrix and all that kind of stuff, it looks wild. Well,
it is wild. So yeah, Florida would definitely be number one. Yeah. We've got everything here.
Yeah. Coastline. We've got the Gulf of Mexico. We've got the Atlantic Ocean. We've got the Florida
Keys. We've got the Swamplands. We've got tons of forestry. All kinds of hunting you can do. All
kinds of fish. You can catch every fish. I had a girl in here, Louisa. Louisa was, she's Australian.
Right. She was in here and I was talking to her. She's like a health person. She's like a neuro
physiologist, right? So she's all into diet and all this stuff. We were talking about fish and
she's like, she's like, you got to make sure you're eating the right fish. Well, yeah, we live in
Florida. I'm like, I eat fresh, fresh fish all the time. She's like, yeah, but you know where you're
getting it from? I'm like, yeah, it's the Gulf of Mexico. We literally catch it. I go on a boat
and I catch it. She's like, yeah, but it's not as good as fish you get in Australia. All right.
Why do you think Australian fish is better? Well, I don't know about that. Just recently,
I went out on a fishing trawler and essentially this is in the northern part of Queensland where
they do a lot of coral trout fishing. And I think what's interesting is when you're fishing for
coral trout, you're also going to be catching a lot of like byproduct species as well. So you've
got like the wahoo, you've got like the barramundi cod, you've got these like giant emperor cods as
well. But what's interesting is a lot of the fish species there actually have what's called like
the sigaterotoxin that they acquire through that bio-accumulation. I didn't say it's a barracuda
the other day. Yeah, well, there you go. So you've got to be incredibly careful. Even in Australia,
very careful about what species of fish that you consume in. So, yes. So I know the barracuda,
I think it's the barracuda in the warmer climates are the ones that have the sig and the ones that
are in like up north and the colder climates don't necessarily always have it. But yeah,
my dad made some barracuda fish bread the other day. He didn't even tell me. He just brought
it to me. He's like, Hey, try this fish bread I made. I'm like, Oh, God, damn, it's delicious.
He cut up some jalapenos, put it in there. I was scarfing it down. He's like, Yeah, it's barracuda.
I was like, Oh, wow. Well, I'm so alive. Definitely. I mean, another friend of mine,
Manny Pwigg. He's the guy, you know, Manny, he made those. I love, I love him. Oh, like,
didn't we all grow up like watching him on jackass? You know, apart from, apart from Steve,
who was, you know, I think a little bit before that, I think Manny was one of those people that
was relatable. It was almost like that crazy next door neighbor, you know, the guy that's
swearing at the lawnmower kind of guy that just had something relatable. And I think he had an
amazing skill set. You know, he just, he spent so many, you know, so much time out there in the
wilderness. He had a, you know, a real special connection. And when I walked in, I saw these
and I was just like, that's definitely Manny's signature right there.
Manny was the one who taught, who told me, he was the one who got me interested in
the ability to eat barracuda. So he was saying he eats barracuda all the time,
and he catches them with these things. And he catches, he, there's videos of him catching
barracuda just with a knife swimming, right? He just like swims up to him and stabs them
and catches them. But, but yeah, man, Manny, Manny is a very unique mother and he, and he grew up
in Cuba during the revolution, like right after the revolution. He was the one who introduced me
to Felix Rodriguez, the guy on that podcast we're just talking about. And Manny's dad fought with
him in Cuba during the revolution for the CIA. And Manny's dad actually got caught and executed.
Oh, he went no way. Yeah, Felix is his godfather. From a very young age?
I think after he was, I think Manny was around five years old when his dad got executed.
You know what I find interesting? For the majority of the people that I've met within
this industry that have a real deep, okay, so you can have a skill set, right? But then there's
this next kind of level that you get to. And that next level is to do with understanding
animal behavior. What I've noticed for a lot of people in the industry that just have that edge
or just have that extra skill set, that extra talent is generally there's been trauma in their life.
And I know for a lot of the people that I've talked to who have had bad relationships or even
maybe no father in their life, they often find a relationship in nature that they'd normally,
like a normal adult, some would find a relationship with their father. They find a relationship in
nature. And for me, that was the case. Because I didn't get along with my father at all. I think,
look, he was the most supportive father in the world and loving, but we just didn't get along.
We couldn't stand each other. We just couldn't. Even until today, we couldn't stand each other.
And I think what's interesting is having seen a lot of guys in this industry,
which are really good, that next level good, we all have a very similar kind of
thing. And I think that's probably something that's probably happened with Manny at that age
is he found a relationship with nature and that fearlessness in nature as well,
that gives you a sense of control. Yeah, man. The most interesting people I think have had
to deal with a lot of trauma, most likely early in life, what you were saying with Manny. And
that's interesting too, the similarity between you and him. He talked about how when he came to
the US and he moved to Florida and he went to college, he was just basically skipping school
and going on solo treks in the panhandle by himself, just like wandering through the woods
for weeks with just a knife and a backpack, like catching and killing stuff and eating it and just
surviving on his own by himself for weeks. So that's all he wanted to do. Well, that's empowerment.
You know what I mean? That's self-identification. That's empowerment. And I think that's something
that, you know, that's obviously character building. You can see that in someone. And I know
for the guys that I've met in the industry, which are really good in the survival realm,
we're all self-taught, you know? And I think a lot of the times we, you know, we will try and
reflect and say, oh, you know, we've, you know, we've spent a lot of times with the Indigenous
people and all that kind of stuff. And retrospectively, yes, there's a lot of skill sets that can come
from that. The best skills are the ones which are self-taught. That's time in the field. It's
through mistakes, it's through failures. I can tell you what, like I've went through a lot of failures
on almost every continent, you know? But that's where your knowledge, that's where your understanding
comes from. That's where your ability comes from. How many continents have you been to?
I think most of them, except Antarctica. Really? So, look, I've spent, so obviously from Australia,
but I've spent time in Southeast Asia, a whole bunch of countries there, like for Cambodia,
Laos, Thailand, Indonesia, Myanmar. That's where the previous discussion with Forest,
where we'd done filming there in Myanmar. Is Myanmar where the crocodile massacre was?
That's correct, yeah. Okay. Yeah, in northern parts there. Spent time in Africa. I've been
in Africa twice now. South America, well, obviously, I've just flown in from Colombia.
But, look, every single environment that you go to is going to have different challenges,
you know? And I think there's an old saying, I'm just trying to remember who said it,
and it goes into the philosophy of this whole life that I've had of catching animals around the
world. But an animal is, an animal is only dumb to a man's dull perception. I'm just trying to
think who said that quote, but it makes so much sense, because for every environment that I've
went into, and I've looked at an animal I've fought to myself, how this is going to be real easy to
catch, doesn't he send me on a spiral? You know what I mean? Like, quite literally,
it doesn't matter if it's beavers, and this is all stuff like catching by hand. You know what
I mean? This is not, you know, this is, this is a mano y mano, one-on-one level playing field.
I'm going to try and catch, and I'm going to do anything that I can to do it.
And I guess there's got to be a persistence gene. That's, I think that's probably one of
my big mental problems is my persistence. Is there'll be something, and I'll be like,
I'm not leaving until I catch it, or I'm going to die doing it. I don't know where that comes from,
but, and I'll take it personal. Like, yeah, I'll spend months trying to catch something.
Yeah, that's what, Foresh was trying to explain the difference between the
main, your difference between you two. And he was saying that you just have this insatiable appetite
for, for adrenaline, or you're an adrenaline junkie, and you just cannot stop chasing and
trying to catch the most deadliest animals on earth.
Well, it just doesn't, you know, I think over the years, so this, the story starts at about
five or six years old. And I used to go out into the back of West Apto with a bucket and go and
catch snakes. Now, we're not talking like average kind of garter snake. We're talking about hardly
venomous snake species. You know, we've got the brown snake, we've got the, you know, tiger snakes
and black snakes. You know, we're talking like within the top, top 20, quite literally. And,
you know, I wasn't stupid to the fact that I knew this thing could kill me, but it gave me like an
immense control of being able to capture something like that and actually, you know, have it in my
possession. And so that's where I believe the curiosity started. And we all have natural
curiosity when we start off. I think that's something which is innate and somewhat instinctual.
And I guess that's probably where it started from, just going around catching snakes.
And then from catching snakes, I went to like other animals and then I'd be like watching birds.
I'd be like, well, I'm going to try and, you know, figure out different ways of catching birds.
And so I think the more time that you spend out there, you become quite, what's the word,
incredibly observant, because all that you're doing is you're studying animal behaviour.
And within that, you're looking for flaws within animal behaviour. And you probably think, well,
what do you mean flaws? Well, there's definitely dissection points, you know, particularly,
you know, if you're trying to capture like mammals or birds, you've got to find a weakness within
that animal's pattern or path that enables you to be able to capture him. So let me give you an
example. When I was 14 years of age, I went through this whole thing of catching like birds,
if I can love that, like I'd wag school and just go and try and catch birds.
This got me in a lot of trouble with the authorities. This is like my first introduction
because everything when I was young, there was the law and I just, it just went over my head.
I just, I've had the change now, but I just, I gave not one, can I swear on this? Not one
about those wildlife laws. I just didn't care. It just didn't register in me because it didn't.
So I would go out and be like, well, what animals am I going to go and catch today? So,
you know, go and catch like one bats and the kidneys and all that kind of stuff. And then
I remember watching these birds thinking like, I really want to get into catching birds.
And so what I did was, and I went through like a lot of failures, but I soon realized like,
you know, the cockatoo species like cyphercrestids and glas and lorikeets and rosellas,
like all the parrot species. Okay. So what they do is they will actually reside in tree hollows,
like when they're doing even nesting or even at night time, they'll reside in tree hollows.
And I soon realized and I had to keep distance on these birds that
if you got too close to where they were nesting up in the trees, then essentially they would
identify you as a predator and they wouldn't go and hollow in these retreats.
But late at night, if you stayed at a distance just before sundown, you could actually watch
these birds go into the hollows. And essentially this would be the same retreat site. So we've
got our first intersection point there. I know where this guy's going at night time. Okay. So
that's tick box number one. Now tick box number two is well, how the hell do I get up the tree?
And so you'd get there to the tree and you'd soon realize that if you made noise, even at
night time, if you made noise trying to get up into the tree, will the bird will hear you and
then it would take off. And that's probably like a natural instinct with the bird of like,
you know, the goannas, the monitors climbing up the trees and hearing the scratchings and stuff.
And then like, oh, there's a predator. I've got to evacuate. So what I do is when the birds are
out feeding, I used to go, I used to cut these like Rio, you know, like the steel Rio bars,
like reinforcing bars. And so what I would do is I'd take like a handful of them and I'd nail
them up into the tree to where the hollow was. And I'd do it in the daytime whilst the bird was
going. And so at night time, I'd come back and I'd even, I'd even put like, go to the effort to
put like socks over my shoes. So I wouldn't make noise. And so I'd climb up the tree at night
time and I'd have a net and I'd get up there to the hole and I'd put it over the hole and I'd
bang on the trunk. And then these cockatoos would fly out and then boom, I'd have my cockatoos.
Loved it. And what would you do with what you got? I'm gonna tell you what happened. So
my dad, my dad, as much as we had conflict, somehow he supported my antics, you know,
throughout the years. And I just bring all these birds home. So he built this big aviary in the
backyard. And I had like all these different animal species. And I had like cookaburras and
king parrots and like all these like really highly protected bird species. But it was,
it was entertaining. It was fun, you know, and I'd have friends come over and all that kind of
stuff. Anyway, sooner or later, the authorities cracked on to me, right? And I remember it was
like a Thursday, I just finished a, a just finished school. And I remember this knock on the door.
I've opened up the door. And there's this ranger. Hi, how you going? We're just doing routine
inspections on avaries in people's backyard. Do you have an aviary in your backyard? And he
is from like the New South Wales, what was it? The New South Wales National Parks and Wildlife
Service. And that then to me was like the enemy, like they were like, you know, like Darth Vader
to me. And I just fought to myself, yeah, I've got a bat in the backyard. And I fought to myself
at this point in time, like, I'm like, I was like 15. I'm like, I'm and he went into the backyard
and like all these birds are going ballistic. I would have had about 30 birds in there. And he was
there with like another person, they're taking pictures and all this kind of stuff. And he goes,
where, where have you gotten these birds from? I said, what do you mean? Where have I gotten
from? I caught him. He goes, who's been catching it? I said, I've been catching it.
And he says, oh, you know, what traps have you been using? I said, I don't use traps. I said,
essentially, I use my hands. And he's just like, and he's taken all notes of this. And he goes,
can you sit down for a second? He sits me down. Right. And he goes, well, how you've been catching
these birds? Honestly, you need to tell me. As I sat down, I told him the process of how I was
catching these birds. And I remember he was looking at his partner, just thinking to himself,
like, where the fuck is this guy coming from? You know, like literally. And anyway, long story
short, because I was a minor, they gave me like a warning. And then they had like another lady
come in from like the animal services and why, you know, take all the all the birds and stuff,
which I was completely devastated. They let they let me keep my favorite bird, which was a Galar.
So did you, did you have like a net? Did you have something over at the top of the back
yard so they couldn't get out? Yeah, no, it's like, it's called like an Avery. So like a mesh,
like a mesh Avery. Oh, got it. Like a like a like a big arse chicken pen. Got it. Okay. And so,
yeah, so that was my first introduction to to the law. And it was a warning. And then I guess
since then, you know, I went through my escapades of going around and catching animals around the
world and like docking and and and and ducking and dodging all the laws, you know what I mean,
and jumping through loopholes and all that kind of stuff. And that can be stressful. You know,
I was getting pulled up at airports, you know, interrogated, investigated. What footage do you
have? Show us your phone, this and that. It got to that point quite a hundred percent. We got to
points where I was sending hard drives and SD cards back home because I didn't want anyone to
see what I was up to. Wow. Oh, yeah, a hundred percent. Yeah. But it was all in the love of
doing what I was doing. I love catching animals. I can't explain it. I can't explain it. I just
recently went to a kilometer to south, you know, to Central America. And even there, I'm trying to
go on a holiday. I can't help it because I'm watching monkeys and coates and all these animals
just thinking like, you just have something in you that you need to catch animals. I don't know
what it is. When something's evading me, I just want to chase it down. I just want to I just want
to catch it. I haven't been as successful with women, unfortunately. That's what I was going to say.
I say, yeah, be careful. You gotta be careful in the States. Yeah. But it's just been something
so instinctual within me, you know, and I think as it's come through now and I've developed this
skill set and this ability, I've had to turn my ways into a way which is more legalized
and doing things the right way. And only recently has like the government essentially
like started to open up and say, all right, we'll we'll give you permits to do this and this and
this. But you know, we're you play by the rules, Andrew. So I've always kind of been that.
So after you started catching birds, what did you move on to? Just anything and everything. By the
time I was 19, I went to Africa and I thought I'm just going to go after everything. And my parents
literally thought I wasn't coming back. Yeah, 100%. Yeah, it was tough. I was there for like four
months from Kenya to Zambia and Zimbabwe. And I just went there catching everything all like
highly venomous snakes. And this is like in the early days of YouTube. This is early. Yeah,
you started your YouTube channel a long time ago. Yeah, a very long time ago. And for that,
it was it was different. It was for me, it was a lot of comedy, but teaching people. It wasn't
about being now it's changed. It's about being famous. It's about creating a bronze statue of
yourself like a motto of yourself. A lot of it is, you know what I mean? And I think when I started
out, it was very organic. It was real. It was genuine. And people saw that, you know, and that's
and that's exactly what it was. And look, I think it definitely had its time and period. You know,
they were video uploads that I was doing and getting, you know, quarter of a million views
in a week. And it was just going, at that point in time, it was kind of like, where's this all,
where's it all leading to? Right. And then I went and done a number of documentaries. So I
done three documentaries, which they're on Netflix, not in the US. Don't know why, but it's in the UK,
Ireland. So you got to get a VPN. Yeah. So yeah, so I've got a series called Born to Be Wild,
which follows like my escapades of when I was doing freelance documentary work. And
those were some tough yards, man, like we're talking about before, like proper tough,
blood, sweat, tears, you know, I went through a hill. And then it got to a point where I was
watching, I won't name them, but I was watching other wildlife presenters on YouTube, on the
Instagram, just getting an accumulation of resources and viewerships and all that kind
of stuff. But I was watching their stuff and saying, it's scripted, it's staged, it's phony,
it's fake, and it's not real. And these individuals were developing just these very cartoonish
characters. And they went in with a business plan, they went in with a production company, and
and just, they just took over. And but I didn't want to, I didn't want to sell out. I never
wanted to sell out. I wanted to stay genuine. You know, I really wanted to stay genuine. I think
for people in the industry that know me, they know that as well. Yeah, man, it's an unfortunate part
of media and show business and YouTube and all of it is that whenever any sort of, whenever
anything becomes popular, whether it be a niche, like the wild, like the things that you're doing
with wildlife or whatever, it might be a whole new format of media, like podcasting,
there's always going to be people that that just like latch onto it and try to monopolize it and
monetize it as much as they possibly can. So they'll take whatever, whatever it is like you've
been doing for your whole life because you're passionate about it and uploading content,
you were one of the first people to do it. Once people see success, they smell blood,
they smell money. And they're like, how can I reverse engineer what this guy is doing? Well,
look what he's doing. Okay, we got to go to Africa. We got to get in front of these animals. I got
to wear this hat. We're going to name that YouTube channel this. What color should we use? I'll change
my name. Exactly. They change their names. This is the story of Katie Peterson. I hate that guy.
Who is he? If you can ever set up like a, like a, yeah, like an MMA ring or whatever, get this guy
there because I want to flogging because he did exactly that. He watched what I'd done and he
was like, how do we capitalize on this guy? Even seeing him, I want to punch him. This episode of
the podcast is brought to you by Bubs. Bubs Naturals is a badass company that has collagen,
peptides, it has coffee creamer, has coffee, electrolytes, and they are amazing because they
are a tribute company to a Navy SEAL and former CIA contractor, Glenn Bubs Doherty, who died
defending American freedom in Benghazi, Libya. Again, there is obviously no shortage of collagen
products available on the internet, but I support Bubs because it is not only a superior product,
but they support American veterans by donating 10% of all their proceeds to veteran organizations
and 100% of their proceeds on Veterans Day. Bubs collagen peptide packets are easy to use as a
daily supplement. I keep them in my truck and I drink them on the way to the gym. It's flavorless,
easy to mix nature, it makes it easy to mix into anything. I prefer mixing it in coffee. You may
not know, but after the age of 25, your natural production of collagen starts to fade, which can
severely impact your skin. And an interesting thing about collagen is the more you supplement with it,
the more your natural production increases. Since I started using it a few months ago,
I've already noticed a huge improvement in my joint connective tissues, my skin elasticity,
and the overall quality of my hair, believe it or not. You can support Bubs and this podcast
by visiting BubsNaturals.com and using the code DJP at checkout for 20% off your first order.
Again, that's BubsNaturals.com and use the promo code DJP at checkout for 20% off. It's linked
below. Now back to the show. I can't stand him. Coyote Peterson. I can't even look at him.
So it's like some Hollywood agents get together and they're like, okay, we need a wildlife show.
We're going to sell it to A&E. Who can we get? They give a bunch of auditions and they get this
guy to come in and they teach him how to handle animals. I think what there is is two different
types of people in this industry. There are those that have a genuine skill set and ability,
and there are those that see an opportunity and know the business structure of how to move
forward. And he'd done that and he'd done it well. I think the problem is when you go into
something and you're like, right, we're going to create a brand, we're going to create an image,
we're going to create a bronze statue, which is exactly what he's done. I think where the failure
comes into play is this. They try to relate what they're doing, their motivations and everything
else to other people previously. And I think Steve Irwin in Australia was one of the most
brilliant, one of the most passionate conservationists on earth, an incredibly lovable person.
Do you want to know why? Because he was genuine. There was nothing fake about him. He was genuine.
Right. He was genuine. He did be what he did because he was, he was, he was a true identity
and he'd done things from a different place. When I watch people like that, he does it from a place
of how can I make a brand into myself? Yeah. You know what I mean? And he's I am DBP,
wearing a goofy hat. I want to kind of flog in. I don't want to flog in. I can't stand him.
Anyway, maybe that's just like the Australian thing to me. Like, what's in this drink?
It's called, it's crowded. There's rum in this drink. I said there's rum in this drink. But look,
at the end of the day, one thing I do respect, regardless of who it is in the industry,
is I respect hard work. Because regardless if you're a phony or a faker or whatever,
there's got to be some hard work that gets put into that. So let me try and reverse engineer that
conversation into saying you got to respect people for the hard work that they put in. You know what
I mean? And I think ultimately, you know, we've come to a time where we've got some big environmental
problems which are happening and we need people out there to be advocates for the environment in
whatever format or retrospect, you know, I think. And that's something that's probably in 18 comes
from my, I know for myself, from my childhood, because that was me being connected to the environment.
It was, it was like, it was like, because that connection was there and I felt empowered by
the environment, you want to protect something that, you know, like, if I'm stressed or upset or
down or whatever, where do you think I go? You think I go into the city? You think I go into,
no, I go into the bush by myself. That's where I have my power. That's where I have my,
my connection, you know what I mean? And I think when you have that, you want to protect it. I
think that's where it comes from real deep, real deep, you know. At what age were you when you
figured out how to turn this fascination with wildlife and catching deadly animals into a job?
Like, how did you, when did that happen? So I went to university. I did a degree in
environmental science. And then after that, I had done a master's in wildlife conservation,
but still whilst all this was going on, I was still doing my antics of catching animals.
And it wasn't until I started posting on YouTube, I started seeing like a big following that was
coming in and watching, I thought to myself, maybe I can actually keep doing what I'm doing with this
love and go around the world and do this. And essentially, that's what I did. I just, I went
around the world with my camera and done this. And then I had a really good friend of mine,
which just joined me in Medellin in Columbia, my mate Dave. He taught me how to do the very
basics of video editing using Adobe, you know, obviously with a cracked format because I couldn't
afford the real one. And essentially just taught me the basics of this. But a lot of it was to do
with, I wanted to have like a sense of humor that ran through it as well and like real thick humor as
well. And yeah, and then I had another big thing that happened and I haven't really opened up too
much about it. I know Forrest knows a bit more about it. So Bear Grylls had came through and he
had done a very successful job of, you know, building the brand of survival and getting a lot
of people involved in that and kids and all that kind of stuff. And I think that was absolutely
amazing that how he opened up that niche and that genre. And then essentially what had happened was
he had left the network and the network at Discovery was trying to find the next person
to essentially come in and start their own genre. And they reached out to me and this was back in
2015. So I got into contract with ITV America. I don't know how much of this I can say because
it was probably, you know, NDAs I had the sign. I felt like it was over 10 years ago, you're good.
Yeah. And so I went in with probably out of the entire crew of 12 people. I dare say 10 of them
were the greatest cunts you ever met. Yeah. And then there was only two that represented to be
people that, you know, were generally had my back. I remember, so I'd done all this work. I'd
created this entire platform and everything that I was doing with the footage and all that kind of
stuff. And the first series, and this went on for ages because I know they'll have new CEOs of
Discovery come through. And essentially I just said, I want to come in and do something that's
never been done before. I don't want to do what other people have done. It doesn't interest me.
I want to take things to a whole new level. And I'm like, okay, this sounds great. So
I remember the first episode that we shot was actually in Thailand. And I remember there was a
dinner that we had and everyone had been brought in. And there was about 12 people sitting down.
And I finally thought to myself, I've worked so hard to be here. Like the amount of times I've
almost died to be sitting here at the table. And now, you know, finally my career is about to take
off. And anyway, this guy stands up. I don't know who he was. I think he was the executive director.
It stands up. And, you know, he gives this speech for like 10 minutes about everyone, you know, how,
you know, how hard it worked to be here and this and that. And, you know, starts, you know,
talking about the projects that he's worked on and this and that. And then he takes a seat.
And there's a guy sitting across from me who's ex British special, ex British special forces,
right? He's a consultant, survival consultant. He's done multiple networks and multiple, you
know, he's always in the background as the background guy to make sure everything's going
safe. He's the first day at this guy's like the real, what is it, the MacIver, right? His name's
Kiran O'Donnell, right? He's actually, I think Mr. Beast guy, he's now his, you know, survival
security agent. Yes. Oh, wow. He's his next level. And so Kiran, Kiran's got an amazing ability to
just read a room. Right. I guess that's why he's trained the way he is. And he looks at me and
he sees the look on my face and he goes, Oh, can I just, can I just say something? We're actually
all here because of this young man. And that was the first time that I fought to myself. This is
someone that's actually got my best interests at play. And it was just, I don't know, it was one
of the most disheartening introductions to American television or American productions that I
didn't even know existed. You know, it was just, yeah, this guy was just like, you know, we're here
because of me. And it's just like, man, like I've just worked my entire life to get here. And he
hasn't even acknowledged me, you know, and that was, I think that was the start of the whole thing
just going downhill. We got three episodes in, they ended up canceling the entire fucking production
as a multimillion dollar production. Why did they cancel three episodes in? I think for one of three
reasons. One was almost died twice. You almost died twice? Yes, that's correct. Yeah. Okay. What's
the other reason? The thing was I said to the network is this is no, this is not around. If we're
going to go in and do this, there's no, you know, the fakery and all that kind of stuff. I really
want to go in and do this and take things to the whole, whole, whole new level, which ended up me
being in hospital twice. They almost died once. That was bad. That was a bad time. The other part
of the other reason was not going to say who it was, but I had a co-host that had been brought into
it. And we just didn't get along on camera. I wouldn't use that word, but yeah, we just, yeah,
we just, we, we didn't get along. Look, I think I respect that person. Okay. And, but yeah, we
didn't get along. And yeah, the show never went to air. That was a sliding door opportunity.
And it got burnt in front of me. And I still don't even think I've ever recovered from that
because I knew that was, that was my shot. That was, and I remember talking to the forest about
that. And he was like, don't worry, man, that was the wrong time. You know, there'll be another
time. And then he, he ended up getting us on a show called Face the Beast, which was the history,
because he goes, we know you've got this talent. We know you've got this ability. And he's actually
just put me forward for another pitch of a show on Animal Planet. He's just like, you've just got
to get, you've, you've just got to get your time online. Yeah, you just, you know, you, you, you'll
get your shot and pull it up a little bit too and just keep it, keep it like this far. Yeah.
So, you know, forest has always had my back because I, you know, he knows,
he knows what I'm like, but yeah. So I think I've had a bit of a, everyone has a, I guess,
everyone has a rough road coming in, you know, and there is regardless of how hard you work or
the, the talent that you've got, you know what you need. Man, you need luck too.
Yeah, man. The, the drudge and the reality, the reality of, of Hollywood and old television is
just so soulless and it sucks the goddamn life out of you. And I was telling you off camera,
that's how I got into this, like the whole documentary stuff. But prior to me doing the
documentary stuff, I was doing documentary stuff for television and trying to sell it to television.
And after years of that, that's when I quit and decided to go 100% onto YouTube.
But that, it sucks. There's no creativity in it. It's just turns into
numbers and money and a P and L sheet and lawyers. And it's just, there's no creativity and there's,
it's not fun. When you're, you're just waking up and following his call sheet schedule,
being a certain place at a certain time, make sure you get the shot. And then you're gone.
When you do it yourself, like when you're doing YouTube, you can just fly by the seat of your
pants, go have fun and film cool shit, not to worry about any of that, that whore shit. But
I meant to ask you, when you were there, how did you almost die twice?
Do you remember that first discussion about the Lipter Spirits?
Oh, were we recording for that, by the way? Gosh, I have no idea.
Probably not.
Tell that story. Yeah, tell that story. Is that one, is that one of the reasons you almost died?
Oh, shit, almost got me. Yeah. So look, I've had a number of diseases over time.
Yeah, apart, no, STDs, but I've had a number of diseases over time, right?
And so look, I've caught in dengue. I've had malaria. I've had
schistomaniasis. I've had Lipto Spirosis. I've had Micromarinum. I've had
f***ing hell. Yeah, I've had a lot from nature. So the one that I almost died in, and this was
with the film shoot with Discovery, was Lipto Spirosis. And the way I believe I had got that,
I was going for those, it's called like a, like a water monitor, big Asian water monitors.
And we all like the back end of like a, like a farming kind of area. And the water was,
you know, essentially that grey water, you know, where there's a lot of effluent and like,
all that kind of stuff. Once again, I was just that immortality kind of like, nothing can kill
me kind of face. How old were you? 24, so I was 25, I was on. And so here I was duck diving,
you know, in and out of the weeds and all that kind of stuff, you know, trying to get these
water monitors and, you know, going on the water and all that sort of thing. And I must have
accidentally ingested some of that water. And it was, you know, like most of your zoonotic diseases,
it's going to take, you know, an incubation period of four or five days until it kicks in.
And I remember when it kicked in. So the guy, Kieran O'Donnell, he was there with me and he
just sensed that he goes, there's something not right about you. I said, I'm feeling pretty,
pretty ill, pretty sick. He goes, yeah, maybe you're dehydrated. So we went to a Vietnamese
hospital and, you know, the doctors are walking around with like no shoes. It's like blood on the
ground. This is, no, it's, it's bad. You ever been to Vietnam, Vietnam hospital in the north?
It's bad. Proper bad. It's like cats like walking through the surgery room and stuff and like,
fuck it. Jesus Christ. Pass me the scalpel and it's like a monkey that's doing like that.
Oh, God. No, it's not. No, it's bad. And so I ended up in hospital there. I remember I went
through two bags of IV and then Kieran was like, oh, well, that should do the trick. I went back
there to the hostel and all of a sudden my body just dropped again and dropped again and dropped
again and essentially my body was just shutting down. Ended up going to the hospital, was there for
I think three or four days and they would just give me what's called like shotgun therapy,
which is essentially they're just giving you every kind of antibiotic under the sun and trying to
get you, yeah, your body up. And it did. I think for about a week it done it and I was fine,
finished off the shoot, got to Australia. William Arnhem Land, which is a remote part of Australia
and the first day of filming was me going out and trying to catch a donkey. And I remember
I'm running after this. There's plenty of wild donkeys out there running after this donkey.
And I just collapsed. And then Kieran once again was like, what the fuck is going on? There's
something like more sinister going on here. And I remember he literally like picked me up and
carried me to the buggy and was like, we need the game to hospital now. And I remained in hospital
for just over a week there and fighting in leptosporosis. I don't know what antibiotic they
ended up giving me. It was all obviously IV. I remember shutting down the scariest part about
this was they didn't know what it was. And they ended up flying a specialist doctor from the CDC
from Darwin down because they had actually suspected that I'd caught rabies. Oh, really?
Which yeah, yeah, because I was catching all these weird monoclonals through Asia getting
scratched, bitten up and all that kind of stuff. And the doctor there was like, hey, like this
guy's had some interactions, like his signs and symptoms are very, you know, it was like
almost a zombification like rabies is. And they ended up flying down a doctor. You know what's
scary about this, Annie? Imagine this, you're on the bed. You're dying. And you're in a dark room
and the buyer has a room and a lady walks in. The first thing she says is, is it okay if I can
turn on the lights? And I just nodded and she turned the light on. And she goes, Andrew, I'm
just going to pour you a glass of water. Can you have a drink? And in the smallest amount of energy
that I had, I said to her, you've just tested for two things. And she stopped and looked me. I said,
you've just tested for my reaction to light. And now you're testing my reaction to drink water.
I said, these are the two things that you test for when someone's going for the early stages
of rabies. I said to her, you're telling me I've got rabies. I said, we both know I'm dying on this
bed. She didn't say anything. Oh, dude, the survival rate of rabies is like very low, right?
It's like 99.9%, like death rate. And I think there's one lady that survived it here in the US.
And the only way they were able to bring her back was they put her into an induced coma and let her
body ride it out. But even then, I think she had ongoing problems. I think she might have
made a full recovery now, but I think there's only been, yeah, like one or two people in the
world to have survived rabies. I will mention that I had pre-exposure on my prophylaxis. I did
have pre-exposure, but when I got bitten and scratched by these animals, I didn't have the
post-exposure, which we're supposed to have. Post-exposure essentially being that once you've
been bitten or scratched, it's on day zero that you've been bitten. You have an injection at day
seven and day 21. I believe there's three injections that you have. And then that
counters any kind of infection of rabies. So as long as you get the injection right away?
That's correct. And if you've never had the injection, and I believe it's six injections
right there, all in one. So there's obviously a very effective vaccine for it, but you just
need to make sure that you take the right procedures in that protocol of how to take a
medication. But yeah, that was, yeah, that was, people say with the animals, you know,
the fear of the animals, fear of the animals, not the fear of the animals. The animals,
you can do. It's the shit that you can't see, the microbes. That's terrible. So tell the story
about what you caught from the can. Oh, no, so that was the story that I was saying. So there was
a story in America many years ago where a rat had actually pissed over like a bunch of kings
and she drunk it and she was able to get leptosporosis. Oh, that's not how you actually
caught it. No, I got it from duck diving. Right. So when I was in the rivers in that murky water,
that's, that's, that's how it caught lepto. But your dad always told you to wipe off the can.
Right, exactly. Because the cat, because the rat's piss on it. Right. But you know,
have you heard of toxoplasmosis? Yes, I have. Yeah. That's another thing that rats have.
Yes. In weird disease. That weird as well. That's why pregnant people can't go around
kitty litter. Oh, for real? Yeah. Because they'll get, they'll get toxo.
There was another story in Australia. I thought this was an interesting one where
it's like a typical Australian thing, you know, to be, you know, bet to do something stupid.
And these guys were having a bit of a barbecue and there was a slug and he said to his mate,
he goes, oh, I'll give you 10 bucks if you swallow that slug. As you do, right? And so anyway,
so he put the slug in his mouth and you know, he's probably got like a crown or like swallowed
it down and they all had a good laugh. Anyway, a couple of days later, he ends up in hospital
and they're trying to track down what's happened to this young man. And you know,
they're obviously calling his mates and being like, you know, has he been taking
your drugs? Is there anything out of normal? And eventually one of the guys said, fuck.
Well, he did swallow a slug a couple of days ago and then all of a sudden like, bing.
So slugs can carry, particularly if they've, I think it's once again fruit rats,
something like it's just the main vector. If they've been feasting on like rat feces,
there's a parasite that they can ingest, which is called, it's like a type of,
the name of it's called rat lung worm. Okay, it's a parasite. And essentially,
once that parasite start developing in you, and once again, it's like an automatic shutdown on
the body. And he died. He died from this. That's, that's another skirt. Yeah, rat lung. Yeah.
Angiost. That's the one. Angiostrongulus cantonensis. Wow, rat lung worm. Also known,
yeah, that word I just said, disease that affects the brain and spinal cord. Oh, that's
terrifying, man. Oh yeah. So, and even in Australia, we've got a form of rabies, which is called,
it's just lost my mind. Oh, geez. What's it called? Alysovirus, which is essentially
like a strain of like rabies that we have in Australia, and that's spread through bats.
And so that's another thing I won't touch bats. Really? Any other animal? Yeah. Okay. Let's go. Bat.
So those are the only animals that you're afraid of? I will not touch. The parasites that you can't
see. Because I've seen it. Like I said, I've, I've went through that, through that process.
There could be a fruit bat flying around in here and I'll say Danny's all yours.
Go for it. Watch the wings. Make sure it doesn't bite you. Yeah. Scary, scary stuff.
You and Forrest were talking about the honey badger. I had no clue that the honey badger was
a dangerous or scary animal at all. I mean, I guess I don't know jack shit about the honey badger.
Definitely. But can you explain why the honey badger is so scary? I can. Have you,
did you actually catch one? I caught one and I can tell you the original, original story when
I was in Africa the first time. So generally, when I go into a country, I go into a country
with like an objective list, right? Whether it be, you know, Peru or Bolivia or, you know, Thailand,
I'll literally have a list of animals that I want to go in there and capture. And once again, I
undergo a process of identifying, you know, where the animals are, how they utilize that
environment and then trying to break down a pattern on how to catch that animal. The first
time when I was in Africa, I was in the western province of Zambia. And it was hard because obviously
I can't speak the tongue there. So you got to get quite creative on trying to explain, you know,
what you're after. So I remember there, I was with a, with a tribe of African guys and I was
trying to explain this animal that I was after being the honey badger.
Porcupine garden, okay. Yeah. Well, he got the porcupine, but yeah, he paid the price.
He paid the price. And so I remember, you know, I had all these African guys behind me and I was
drawing out this, this image of this animal. And then I explained to them, like, you know,
this part's black and this part's white. And one of the guys from behind said its name.
And then everyone just started laughing. Because they're like, you want to catch one.
And they're just like, you could see that they, and they feel us out there. And they'll just
look at each other and be like, how are we going to try and catch one? Yeah, maybe we can figure
this out. So this is actually the same time we went out there catching the baboons because we
were doing like hunting on the baboons with the dogs. And that's a pretty vicious thing to be
part of. But I watched how they did that and ate baboons with them, all that kind of stuff,
which I should have known better because, you know, they're known to carry all sorts of things
like Ebola and everything else. But anyway, that's another, that's another story. But anyway,
we went out there for five days into the savannah trying to track down a honey badger. Oh, we found
one. This thing went into a hole and all the dogs are barking and all this kind of stuff.
And he's like, he's in there. I said, right. Between five of us and two machetes, I said,
we'll get him out. We started digging a hole and digging and digging and digging and digging and
digging and digging. And to the point that we're digging a trench, literally, like a trench that
you can walk through. And we're all taking turns. And it's funny because as we're digging,
noticing, and I can hear you, that this animal's digging as well. And even between six of us digging,
this thing's digging faster than us. And I'm thinking like, fuck, how the fuck are we going to get
to this animal? So I'm like, right, what we'll do is we'll dig a trench at the back. Right. So
where he's heading, we're going to dig a trench all the way down, you know, three meters down or
two meters down and we'll corner him out that way. Right. And we'll always think of all sorts of
things, smoke him out, put water down there, all the different tricks, maybe if we put like some
rags of diesel, we can roll that down there, you know, the fumes and get him out. I was trying
to think of all these little tricks that I'd used in Australia, like, you know, trying to get
Australian animals out of holes. None of it worked. And I thought, right, let's dig this
trench. And by that time, we'd been working on this hole for several hours and we didn't have a
shovel. We had machetes. Were you filming this? No, I wasn't. Oh, you were? No. So there's, I think
there's probably two biggest regrets. We're filming. This is one and another story, which is
the baboon attack. Okay, we'll go to that next. Yeah. So,
dig in, dig in, dig in, dig in. And essentially what this animal had done is because he knew that
we were digging from a certain height, he just started digging down low. And so essentially,
he just went under our trench. So he already thinks like we're already dug like six feet and
then this thing is just dug like an extra three feet below that and just kept on digging. So
these guys essentially gave up on him. I said, no, I'm going to wait here until he comes out.
I ended up spending two days there at the hole. And he never came out. He knew I was outside.
And that's where it started. And you weren't filming it? No. You just stayed there for two days
because you genuinely wanted to catch this. I wanted to catch it. It became personal,
very personal. And it represented the one animal at that point in time that I had challenged myself
to capture and I wasn't able to capture him. And that just stuck with me. I remember I cried when
I got back on that plane. And then 10 years later, I got the opportunity to go there and try and
catch one again. And I said to myself at that point in time, I'll come and I'll be, I'll become a
citizen here. Just so I can catch one. And yeah, I did end up catching one in the end.
You became a citizen? No, exactly. Now South African. They are... So how did you end up catching it?
Well, interesting story. So I'd spent a couple of months in Zimbabwe and I'd went high and low
trying to catch one. I didn't talk to a whole bunch of people, experts in the field, the best
of the best. And I was being sent to all these different locations. The problem about this animal
is unlike the other muscle days, which is like the family group they come under,
most of them have like a retreat site that they go into, like a hole, and they occupy that hole
consistently. Unless, you know, they're breeding and they're going back to pups. This animal here
is probably one of the most nomadic animals you'll ever meet. He can move 20 kilometers in a night,
he'll utilize different holes. So trying to actually define a pattern, it's like trying to
work out where a butterfly is going to land. You don't know. And that was one of the biggest
difficulties in trying to catch this animal. Not to mention that they're an animal which is
predominantly nocturnal, which is very difficult as well. Not to mention that if you're in a
landscape, which is a 3D landscape, so like there's escarpments and, you know, a lot of rock
formations and there's like a matrix of vegetation and fawns and all that kind of stuff, good luck
because you'll see them in the end will disappear. I don't care how quick you are for the bushes,
you're not going to catch one. So the only way that they've been caught in the past is in like
what we refer to as like a 2D environment, which is like open desert, like in the calahari and
all that kind. So we can see them from a distance and you can run them down. That's essentially
the only way they can be caught. But they also represent a big issue to a lot of the farmers,
particularly like the bee farmers, because they get into like the honey. But because they are a
carnivore and a scavenger and an opportunist, essentially anyone that has like a chicken
fawn. And that was the location that I ended up getting one was on a chicken farm. We set a trap.
A chicken farm. Yeah, we set up a trap and this was in South Africa. We ended up setting a trap
and we got one in an aviary and I got a call that morning and the guy was like, hey man,
yeah, we've got one here. Don't know how you're going to go about this, but to be honest, I
would not get in there with it. And it was funny because when I went there and actually saw this
animal, I said for one of the first times, I really started feeling the fear because there's
no 100% yet. Can you play that video, that honey badger, Steve, the 25 second video on the right?
Is that real? I don't think that's real. Oh, this is a commercial. Never mind.
There you go. There's the badger. Wow. Those are way scarier than I thought.
He's got hands like a sloth. See if you can find the real video of the honey badger.
Anyways, sorry to interrupt. So it was in there and he didn't want to go in there.
You said you're going in. The guy's like, I'm going to stay on the outside. I'm going to film you
away. And he goes, how are you going to do this? I said, I'll get in there and just work it out.
And he goes, okay, good luck. And so he literally opened this door, closed the behind and this badger
also explained the forest. He's trying to get out from one of the corners and he was just walking
backwards and forth, backwards and forth. And it's kind of stopped and just like looked over at
shoulder. You know, that slow rolling look that like Chucky would give. He's done that one. He's
just like, acknowledge me. He's thought, okay, right, I'm just going to keep working out this
hole. He's doing this. And anyway, I've moved to the side and started moving towards him.
And at this point in time, he's went right. So he's went along the side of the cage and actually
walked to where the door was. So he knew my entry point. Think about that for a split second. If
you, if you're after, if you want to kill someone and they're in this room, where's the exit? You
got that exit door there. Right. So what are you going to do? Well, you're going to approach him
from a line that you're going to come in a direct line from the exit door, right? So they can't get
past you. And that's exactly what he did. He had lined me up and he said, I'm going to get you if
it's the last thing I did. And that's a line. He's got the opportunity to walk away, you know?
Yeah, exactly. But he doesn't because he's just got this territorial, you know,
this is my area, back out kind of area. And I don't know what it is. I don't know if it's
something to do with the hormone, something to do with the way that they're wired, but they just
don't have a fear. They just, they just continue vicious little animal. More than, more than the
inspiration to catch one, it became an animal to me that I completely love.
Holy shit, dude. It is such an amazing animal. Like I, I love this animal so much. And there's no
way of, I think in America, I think there's a couple of guys that have them as like captive pets
and all that kind of stuff. But in Australia, we don't have the ability to bring in like an
exotic animal like this as a pet. I would do anything to sit down with whoever's in charge
and be like, listen, can we please just bring in like a breeding pair? Like, I love this animal.
I really love this animal. So when it got in front of the door, your entrance to the room,
what happened? We came straight at me. He lined me up and they're fast. And I mean, look, I'm far
last, but this animal, he's got a Jillian speed. And so he chased me around. So I was like,
he chased you around. Yeah, I was essentially like screaming, yelling, trying to like, hold
on to the mesh, trying to get my legs off the ground. And this thing was just after me. How big
was it roughly? And so what they do is the name of the honey badger. It's also got another name,
another name, which is called the retel, right? Essentially rattle. The retel.
So when they come in at you, the growling, and that growl goes straight through your body.
And look, I've had animals charge me before and you feel the noise that they make and you can kind
of, you can compartmentize that noise and put it into your brain where it's like, yeah, I know
you're coming after me and da, da, da, but you're not, you're not mocking me. You're not fit. You're
not, you know what I mean? Like you're not, you're not putting fear into me. When that animal comes
at you with that noise, he puts fear straight into a part of your body. You've never even felt
before. Straight out. I can't do it. Yeah, he puts fear straight into your body. And you know,
you're not in control. He is. What would have happened if that thing would have caught you?
Oh, would it do? Oh, well, look, it's not like he's going to kill me unless, like,
if I tripped over and got me on the next different story, but he's going to just,
the same way of probably being mauled by like a small people at SA.
Really? Yeah. So you're going to be screaming and yelling a lot.
And not just that. Like this animal is the way that it flexes, its ability to flex and maneuver
and all that kind of stuff. Very difficult to handle. So I ended up having to get him into a
net. And even then, because like the looseness of the skin, very hard to handle an animal like this.
Incredibly difficult. But like truly it's, I think in all my escapades and having to deal with
different animals around the world, each one's unique. Can you find a regular video? Not like
a vertical one? Do you have any videos on your channel of one?
No. So what I've done is I've done a complete documentary on this quest for a honey badger.
And until I have the right production company, until I have the right network,
the right opportunity to release this, I'm just going to hold on to content.
Holy shit, man. Everything is afraid of a honey badger. Oh, that's a big ass lion.
Do they have anything like in particular that they like to eat? Or do they just go for it?
You said they're scavengers, so they'll just eat anything?
They're a scavenger. They're an opportunist. So you can see what's he like a small crocodile.
Here he's got a snake. So yeah, they're a snake specialist. And I think, holy shit,
he just attacked a cheetah. They're such an intelligent animal. And I think part of that
intelligence has probably got something to do with the fact that they've got such a diverse
range of species that they consume is you've got to work out a tactic to catch all those
different species of animals. You've got to have an amazing ingenuity. You've got to be
like a problem solver quite literally. And that's what I think is really unique about this animal,
is they are completely a problem solver. I think, yeah, look, that animal there literally should be
the... They are kind of cute too. They are. They really are. When they're not showing their teeth.
They're gorgeous. They really are gorgeous. So what was the story with the baboons?
Right. So this is the first time in Kenya. And like in Australia, I've never had any kind of
experience with baboons. We don't have primates in Australia. And it's funny because, you know,
a stone for our way like Papua New Guinea and Indonesia, we've got primates. But Australia,
the Australian continent is quite unique in the fact that we don't. The closest thing probably to
a primate would be, I don't know, maybe like a possum that we've got. I think that would probably
be the closest thing. So essentially, I went to Africa and had like a list of all these animals
that I wanted to catch. This is the first time I was there. And a savannah baboon was one of them.
And I remember going into a wildlife, it was like a dingy wildlife park. And I met up with two young
guys there. And I said, oh, look, I'd like to learn how to handle a wild baboon. And these two
African guys look at each other and they're like, okay, we can help. This is a life lesson.
Is that something people typically would want to do is catch baboons? No. No, we have no
interest in catching baboons. No. This is a good life lesson. And I think for anyone traveling
to Africa, I think they'll hear this analogy or people who live in Africa will hear this analogy
and they'll just laugh, they'll just get it. So I was with these two very enthusiastic African young
men. And they're like, oh, we've got some, we've got some baboons here, we can show you. I said,
okay, so I went into a zoo and anyway, it was like kinds of dingy menagerie where they had these,
you know, these baboons and, you know, they were somewhat habituated. And I said, oh, yeah,
cool. I said, oh, you guys know how to handle, oh, yeah, you know, we do a lot of the handling here
and, and you know, I've caught hundreds of them before and you know, gave me the whole spill
and it's professionalism of handling baboons and stuff. And I said, okay, is there any way that we
can like try and catch like a wild one? He goes, yeah, sure. He goes, actually, at the back of the
zoo, we've got like a bit of like a cage trap that we can set up. And I remember, so we go down the
back of the zoo and I had another guy that was with me that was filming and I employed just
like a street kid to film. Actually, this was one of the documentaries that I got up on Netflix.
Oh, really? Yes. It was like a 14 year old street kid. And I taught him how to like use a camera.
He filmed the entire thing. He filmed the entire thing. And this kid was fearless. Like,
whenever I was like, right, elephant charging, I need you behind me filming. He'd be like,
yep. Like he was, he was a yes man. That's cool. He was a yes man. So anyway, and he's a local.
And he was a local. So you could speak the tongue. So anyway, I felt like he, he should have been my
first cube because he was kind of smirking a bit suspicious about all this, this whole, this whole
deal. And anyway, went down there to the back of the zoo and there's this big cage trap that's set
up there. And anyway, we baited with like pumpkin and everything else. And the guy's like, okay,
we'll catch, we'll give you a call. And we'll only about 20 minutes out of town. And remember that
morning, it was like 530 in the morning, early sunrise, I get a call. Andrew, we have a baboon.
That was literally, that was literally the thing. I said, oh, great, fantastic. I said, we'll be,
we'll be down there. And anyway, so I remember getting there and early morning, and this thing
is going wild. Since it's spot-sized with us, this thing is like shaking the cage. And I'm talking
like a cage, not much bigger than this table, right? About a meter off the ground. And it's
going absolutely wild. This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Rocket Money. Do you ever
feel like money is just flying out of your bank account each month and you have no clue where it's
going? Well, I do. It's to all those subscriptions you have. Think about it, between all your streaming
services, productivity tools, fitness apps, meditation guided apps, it's endless. And I'm guilty
of this. So I ended up using Rocket Money to figure out which subscriptions I'm still paying
money for every month. And they helped me cancel all the ones I no longer use. If you're unfamiliar
with Rocket Money, it's a personal finance app that helps you cancel your unwanted subscriptions,
monitor your spending, and helps lower your bills. And it's not just about canceling subscriptions,
it's about monitoring and controlling your spending. You can see all your subscriptions in
one place. No more digging through bank statements or suffering these long grueling calls with
customer service people. They'll even work on getting you refunds on subscriptions that you
haven't used. They're very skilled negotiators. Rocket Money can potentially lower your bills by
up to 20%. Just snap a photo of your bill, send it to them, and they will handle the rest. The
bottom line is Rocket Money has already helped over 5 million users save an average of $720
per year. That's over $500 million in canceled subscriptions. Stop wasting money on things you
don't use and cancel all those unwanted subscriptions by going to rocketmoney.com
slash djp. Again, that's rocketmoney.com slash djp. It's linked below. Now back to the show.
And my heart starts racing, a bit like the Honey Badger. So it starts racing something and how the
are we going to get control of this animal? How much do they get weighed?
Maybe about 14 kilos. What? Kilos. 14, 15 kilos. Oh, what are you guys using? God damn it. We use
pounds. How? Yeah, I don't understand metric system. Like a small child? Okay. Yeah, like, you
know, like how many kilos are in a pound? Like a two year old? Oh my God, I know. You're going back
to my science thighs. You're really going to get me here, right? Oh God, we really have to Google
this. Steve, you don't know the answer? No. One pound is 0.4 kilos. So 14 kilos, six pounds?
So six pounds. Okay, got it. 16 pounds. Six pounds. That's like a newborn. Yeah. Oh, well,
just yeah, about a two year old. Okay, this is a decent animal. And so savannah baboon,
you know, muzzle like a dog. I'm not sure if you've seen the savannah baboons. So if you type
savannah baboon, yeah, well, yeah, that's a savannah baboon. Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah, that interesting
individual right there. And so this baboon is going absolutely wild. And you know, the birds
are flying and all this kind of stuff. And they start talking in their own tongue. And I'm like,
what's going on here? And the guy's like, I'm going to use it as like a stick with kind of like a
fork kind of thing. And I said to myself, what we're going to do is this. I want you to teach
me how to handle this. I was about 24, 25 years old. I want to teach you, teach me how to handle
this. But then we're going to put it back in the cage trap. And then I'm going to do it by myself.
The worst mistake, this is coming to the two times that I didn't film is the worst mistake that I
made was not recording him teaching me how to handle the baboon. Because I'm supposed to be,
you know, this guy that's, I know it all. And I'm going to come in, I'm going to show how it's
done. And so you had to pretend like you knew what you were doing. Yeah, exactly 100%.
Which I do a lot of the time. And anyway, so I remember I set up the camera, I set it on the
tripod and the guys like, right, get up there on top of the cage and lift up the cage door.
I said, okay. So as soon as I do that, now I remember there was only gaps on the mesh like so.
And this thing straight away was trying to grab my feet. It was trying to bite me through the
through the cage. And like, they've got some teeth on them. This is a gnarly, gnarly animal.
And anyway, it's trying to psych me out. It's making all these crazy noises and all that kind
of stuff. And I eventually managed to get the cage door up and the guy grabs it by the tail.
And I remember just watching it grab the sides of the cage door and the cage doors are like
flexing in and out just based on the power of the animal. And at this point in time,
I'm thinking there's no way, there's no humanly way possible. We're going to get control of this
animal. It's just not even, and I was paying them for this. Right? Yeah. So anyway, they've got this
thing by the tail, they're pulling out this thing screaming and going off. And anyway,
they eventually pulled it out. And I'm thinking to myself at that point in time, like,
these animals are ambidextrous and they can probably use their tail the same way as their
feet, you know, as like a leverage point, you know, like it probably does. So anyway,
I've almost got to like explain it. So he's like, he's got it by the tail, he's holding
that like this, and this thing's going crazy. It's like trying to grab him. And then he's saying
to his mate, quick, like, try and pin it down with a stick, pin it down with a stick. Anyway,
in all this craziness, it's kind of worked out that because of the sheer weight of this animal,
it can't pull itself up by its tail. So he's got it by the tail, and it's trying to pull itself up,
but like gravity is working against. So I'm thinking to myself, oh, well, maybe we've got
a bit of a chance here. Anyway, I'm still on the cage at this point in time. And I've jumped down
and I'm saying to him, like, what can I do? How can I help? How can I help? And as he's trying to
maneuver into position, what it does is it grabs the sides of the cage and goes, right, well,
if I can't get you that way, I know how I'm going to get you. And it pulls itself towards the cage
and then just goes like jumps off the cage back onto him. And I mean, it happened like that.
And so automatically it's went for his face. And what he's done is he's put his arm like that
straight in front. And so the baboons grab him and it's bitten him on the arm. But as it's bitten
his turn to me. So all I'm seeing now is the back of a baboon in front of me. And my instinct
straight away is like, I've got to help this, the guys, the guys screaming, the baboon screaming.
There's just the worst energy in the world. And I've grabbed this thing by the tail and I've
started pulling as hard as I could to rip this thing off. And I just remember the sheer strength
of that animal holding on to him. Once again, I thought to myself, there was no way we were going
to get this animal under control. Impossible. It was just too powerful. The power in this animal,
you know, quite literally. Anyway, pull in, pull in, pull in. And then finally the animal's released
and as it's released, it's hit the ground and tried to go for me. Right. And I reckon I was
maybe inches from being bitten as well. Anyway, it's took off of the tree. And his went off in
shock screaming. So turn around, show me, show me how bad it is. I need to see how bad it is.
And he's went like this. And he's done like a real slow like that. You know, like when you
take like a bite out of an apple, but it's not like a like a complete bite and it's like a flap
kind of hanging. Yes. It's just dangling off. And just like bleeding on me. So I took my shirt
straight off. I'm like trying to like stop the bleeding and stuff. And I said to my my guy,
quick run up to the car and get the first aid kit. We need to get into hospital. Right, right.
Anyway. Yeah. So we end up getting into hospital. He ends up getting, you know,
and then this is how the story unfolds. Okay. First of which, he was only volunteering at the park.
He'd never handled the baboon before. He had no inoculations whatsoever.
He had no money, obviously. It was a life lesson going to Africa because
I feel you, have you heard of what they call it the African promise? Yeah, the promise of the world.
Oh, no, the African promise. Yeah. It's like, yeah.
If you ask one of those, one of those street kids, can you help me? Can you do something for me?
It doesn't matter what it is. They can do it. It's yes, it's 100%. I can do it. And I thought what
was absolutely comical. There could be a jet sitting outside and I could be like, how do I
and I could be like, hey, man, I need to, you know, take a flight to Copenhagen.
Like, can you fly the jet? And you look at the jet and be like, yes, I can fly the jet.
We'll figure it out. And all this. He's only watched like a trailer of Top Gun,
but he's a professional, you know what I mean? And yeah, so it was one of those learning curves
that you just be very careful when asking people for help, you know, Africa, because a lot of
times people will tell you that they're an instant expert and it can get you into a lot of trouble.
Because they want to get, they want to make money. Of course. Right. Yeah. So I thought that was
definitely a big learning curve, particularly for the second time that I went there again.
But look, some beautiful people, beautiful culture. Some of the happiest people I've ever seen
have been, you know, some of the African tribal people that I've seen. There's a completely
different way of life. Yeah. And really, you know, I think it's a different, it's a different reality
for them. The way that they look at the world and through their lens, you know, and I think I'll
just come from Colombia and I've seen a whole other reality over there. Yeah. The world's
at the world's a big place. Yeah. I had this guy, this guy, Ryan Tate on the show. He's a,
he's a, he was in, fought in Iraq war and he's a veteran and he started a company called VetPaw,
where military veterans who suffer from, you know, a lot of veterans come over and come back from war
and they can't just, they can't find meaning to their life anymore. Right. Like after doing
something like that, they come back and they have this just trauma, trauma PTSD or like this
hyper vigilance where they're always looking over their shoulder because they're used to being in
war zones and it's tough and they, and getting just a normal working a nine to five job just
doesn't fulfill you like doing something like that does. So they need something more in their life.
So what he's done, he's created this, this organization of these veterans that go over there
and they try to protect endangered species and fight off the poachers or
all the poaching that's going on with like the elephants and the rhinos and all that.
And he was explaining to me basically like this civil war that's going on between the poachers
and the, the, the Rangers running the national parks over there, like trying to fight against
the poachers. And the problem is these people are so poor. Historically, there's, you know,
obviously there's way more money for the poachers and there's for getting the ivory and all that
stuff. These guys have an opportunity to make a ton of money and like change their lives. So
a lot of these guys will go from being poachers to then working for the Rangers trying to say,
trying to protect the rhinos and protect the elephants. And they'll go back and forth. So
these guys have like jumped over this bridge multiple times being on both sides of this fight.
And it's, it's f***ing crazy some of the stuff they go through. And, and he was explaining to me
they, they literally like, they use their military trains, like go into these poachers' houses at
night and kidnap them and like arrest them. And it's just like, I can't, I can't fathom what it
would be like, you know, growing up in a place like that where you, you're literally, you, you
have to do terrible things to feed your f***ing family. Like if, if I was in the shoes of these
poachers and I had to f***ing go kill an elephant to feed my kid, I would f***ing do it, right?
But it's a horrible thing to do. And it's like, you don't need to do that. There's other ways,
there's other ways if you can teach these people and bring in new, new jobs or if you could even
fund those Rangers that are protecting those, those people or protecting those animals even more,
you know, it would, it would make Africa a much better place and save the animals.
So yeah, look, part of the, when I went in there doing this documentary, part of it was doing
the black market trade. And I saw quite a bit, particularly to do with the, the ivory products
which had been sold and I went to a couple of market places where you could buy absolutely
anything and everything. And actually, you know, two people within this industry, which I really
respect is Paul Rosely, which you've had Paul on. Paul's done some amazing work in the conservation
space and I think also has worked under the umbrella of that poor as well. And another friend
of mine, a beautiful person is Harry Turner, released a documentary last year that won a Grammy
called, actually he'd be a great person to get on the podcast called Wildcat. And essentially, he
had, he was a British, British soldier and had went to Iraq. I think he'd done a tour in Iraq and
some pretty bad stuff had happened to him over there. And he was medically discharged. And I don't
want to tell too much of his story because I think he's got a really interesting story to tell.
But he ended up going to, there's Harry.
Oh wow, recent documentary.
Yeah. So I was in the, I was in the jungle with Harry for quite a period of time. And we know
each other's antics quite well. And he's done a documentary on, on his connection with an
Ocelot cat. Could have a top left photo of him, like nose to nose. Oh, he's looking sexy there.
Don't worry, I've seen him naked. Oh yeah. Wow. So he was actually with Paul as well in the jungle.
Oh no, sure. And yeah, so look, he's got a heart of gold, but you know, he's obviously
been exposed and seen some stuff as well, you know, and once again, that's his story to tell,
you know, what he's been through. But like I said, you know, going back to the virtual
thing, it's this industry has a lot of interesting individuals which come from different places.
And sometimes a person's connection to nature happens through trauma, you know,
generally there's trauma in the background. Right. You know, I think it's, you know,
as far as what was funny is actually when I was doing the, the, the, the introduction to
Discovery Channel, they're at the network, they actually asked me the question. I said,
you know, this connection that you got with animals and all that kind of stuff like,
where does that come from? It's because they know that sometimes there is inherent psychological
traits that forces people to just want to be with animals and not with people.
Right. You know what I mean? Like the horse leg, like the horse one, you know, you stay away,
you don't date those horse women. Yeah. Yeah. Everyone knows that. Get away from them. If you
see them on the Tinder profile and they're a horse, and they're a horse girl, stay away from them.
No, I'm just joking, mucking around. But yeah, there's definitely, there's definitely some traits
in people, psychological traits that connect them to animals because sometimes they find a
hard ability to get along with people and all that kind of stuff. But, you know, they're also
the same people which write some pretty impressive PhD papers on, you know, animal behavior because
they can just sink into that wavelength. You know, they really get to understand the animal.
Do you, do you feel this way about even like the most dangerous beasts? Like I know you deal
with crocs a lot and you've been around hippopotamuses. Do you feel any fear when you're dealing with
those kind of animals and how do you approach an animal like that? I've, so in this industry,
I get casted out a lot as in, you know, I haven't talked to a forest. People call me insane. People
call me the lunatic and all that kind of stuff. Yeah, that's how forest describes you. Yeah.
But I think in a jokingly sense, because a true lunatic or someone that's crazy,
I don't know, died years ago, you have to have a really good understanding of
your physical limitations and where that red line sits. And that can be incredibly difficult.
And a lot of people in the industry get caught out. What I will say is this, is the advantage
of being self-taught and being young and having those experiences in the wild and being raw with
the animals is very different to, and I see this all the time, is a lot of people and the experiences
that they have is from the zoological industry. So dealing with animals, well, wild animals,
but in a captive state. Right. And using that as their underlying, you know, skill set or ability
in connection with animals, they're a very, they're a very dangerous person to deal with,
because dealing with that animal in a captive state is not the same as dealing with that animal
in a wild state. And I see it all the time. And I think a lot of those people in the zoos,
they have a, you know, like the animals, my friend, you know what I mean? And a lot of
those individuals, they develop these, you know, mystical relationships with the animal where
they actually believe that there's a closer connection between you and the animal. Right.
This is where it can get very, very dangerous because you hear it from time to time. You know,
the, the girl that's been working with a lion for six years and then it's like, you know what,
I'm going to go into the enclosure with it. It understands me and she gets fucking pulled
apart. Right. And they've literally got to put her body into like three different bags to identify.
Right. Right. You hear that all the time. And I think the orca, the drum.
Exactly. I was just thinking about it to look at him. Yeah. I was just thinking about that one.
The interesting thing is, and I think what makes a professional in this industry
is being able to draw that line. And there's a quote, there's a quote from the movie,
Life of Pi. Yes. And you, you know, the scene where the young boy goes over to the tiger
and he's trying to feed it. And the father, his entire life had told him, you know, stay away
from the animal, stay away from the animal. And he goes, no, like this animal is something about
like, it can see my spirit, it can see my soul and all that kind of stuff. And anyway,
he goes to feed the tiger and the tiger runs at the cage. And then all of a sudden,
the father grabs him and pulls him back and starts screaming, what are you doing? What are
you doing? He goes, I was, I was just trying to be its friend. And the father says, that animal
is not your friend. And he says a quote, this is deep. He says, when you look into that animal's
eyes, all you're seeing is your own reflection. The big issue about a lot of people that work in
the zoological industries, they look into those animals and they think that they're seeing themselves
in that animal or personality or characters within those animals and within those traits.
And that's how their connection is drawn. And it's a very deep psychological way of thinking.
But I've studied those people in that industry and a lot of them have this kind of like, that
animal's my friend and I'm the only person that can do this. And sure, you know, there's relationships
that you build with animals and that kind of sense of connection. But there's also a red line there
as well. And I've seen, I've seen it come undone plenty of times before. You see that a lot on,
there's particularly one lady on Instagram, I think she's in Hawaii. And she does all of these videos
swimming with tiger sharks. And she talks about like, she's literally swimming with these
fat, well-fed tiger sharks, right? And she's talking about how beautiful they are and like
swimming up next to them, touching their noses and like explaining like, oh, these are just very
beautiful creatures, you know, they're not man-eaters. And she paints this picture of this
harmless loving creature. And when in reality, people don't understand, like it goes right to
what you said. Like maybe she's seeing herself in this animal and they don't realize that,
like Manny pointed out when he came in here, these are man-eating beasts that are very,
very well-fed when she's swimming with them. If you run into one that in the wild is not well-fed,
it's not going to be that story. I think there's two ways to look at her name's Ocean Ramsey.
Yes. And she's done amazing things for the conservation of sharks. She's done amazing
things to draw, you know, awareness and all that kind of stuff. The biggest issue is that,
is that however, is when you're dealing with these animals, they are habituated animals.
And it's not just as easy as like going on your back and you know, swimming towards them. And,
you know, if it comes at you, like push its nose away, I can almost guarantee you that if you try
and do that with a wild tiger shark in Australia, I don't care what your school level has been there
off the coast of Hawaii, that animal's going to pull you apart and pull you apart fast.
It makes it great that the footage looks amazing. The footage that she does is beautiful.
It is. It's incredible.
And she's very as fatty. Like she looks, you know, amazing in the water.
Her name's Ocean Ramsey.
Yeah. Actually, she'd be a good person to get on the podcast because I'm sure she'd give you a
her side of the story. Yeah.
But I, have you seen the video of the tiger shark eating the guy in Egypt?
Yes, I have just read it.
Hey, man. I've never seen anything that, that fucking brutally terrifying.
I think the part that we can all kind of emote to there is, you know, I think we're screaming
out to his father. Yeah. Yeah. That's the one. And look, like, like I said, I think this is all
amazing. And I think she's, you know, her heart's definitely in the right place. I think where
this would, I think for the normal viewer that just watches her stuff and then goes, oh, wow,
that's, you know, that's really interesting. Without, you know, because I'm sure that she
sends a very strong educational warning out there that, you know, you can't do this with all sharks.
But to the average person, which is just coming across Instagram or YouTube or whatever that
sees this is like, maybe I can do this. You know, maybe I can do this off like the Neptune
Islands with a fucking great white shark. Maybe not. Yeah. But yeah, she's definitely,
look, she's definitely got a skill set and she definitely understands these animals behavior.
That's a hundred percent. But yeah, my concern wouldn't be for her. It'd probably be for other
individuals which might want to try and, you know, do these tricks. And I can be honest,
I think even for myself, when I go out and catch a highly venomous snake, so I make it look easy,
it's not. And there is a skill set. And if you don't know what you're doing, you can probably get hurt.
Forrest said you almost got eaten by a bull shark. Yeah, I did. It's half his fucking folder bastard.
Where were you guys when that was probably my fault. So we were filming off the coast of Florida
there on the East Coast. I was there with a guy by the name of, he's passed away anyway. He was
another beautiful person. That was Michael Dornelis. He used to do a lot. Actually, I think Michael,
Michael Ocean and I think her husband's name is Juan or Drone or something. I think they used to work
together. Juan sharks. Yeah. So I think they used to do work together, but he was helping film
this documentary for History Channel. And essentially what they wanted to do was they
wanted to do a scene where there was like a bit of a bait ball, bull sharks, and they wanted me
to like swim around and all that kind of stuff. And look, when it comes to sharks, yeah, look,
I swim with sharks in Australia, but it's more spearfishing, you see it from a distance. You
know, I'll do my thing. You do your thing. And essentially, I tried to swim through a bait ball,
which I thought was a good idea, which is an incredibly stupid idea. Anyone will tell you that,
you know, and I remember Forrest yelling out to me being like, what are you doing? I'm like,
what do you mean? I said, you wanted me to shot in the middle of them. It's like, not like that.
And there's literally like a blood like meatball. I'm like swimming through the middle of it,
like that. Yeah, one like tried to take my flipper. Yeah, that was pretty intense. Yeah.
Jesus Christ. Maybe I stick to the land animals. Are there a lot of bull sharks in Australia?
There are. Yeah, there are. I do. So I'm involved with the DPI,
which is the Department of Primary Industries, and they run a shark tagging program. So essentially
in the Northern Territory, so I run a tourist business where I take people out and I teach them,
you know, how they engage with nature and, you know, very survival focused as well. I haven't
talked about that yet. But yeah, so I'll take clients out to go catch these bull sharks in the
rivers and essentially we tag them. And it's all part of a program to understand the spatial
distribution of these animals and how they're moving. Right, right. So yeah, obviously a big
advocate for that as well. But yeah, look, we've got a lot of bull sharks, and particularly in
the rivers as well. They travel very high up into the rivers. But look, they are involved in a
number of attacks as well. You know, there's another guy by the name of Paul de Gelder,
and he was attacked by a shark in Sydney Harbour, I believe back in the day. And now he's a huge
advocate for shark conservation. And you know, he spends a bit of time in the water with them and
stuff. He's doing some amazing work. But yeah, he got nailed. And I think he lost his leg and his
arm. I think he lost. He got hit by a big bull shark. But sharks are getting crazy in Florida
right now, man. I've heard it. It's like getting, it's really bad. They're literally everywhere. And
I think Forest, I don't know if Forest, maybe it was Manny was telling me, like now if you off the
East Coast and you just, all you got, all these guys got to do to bring in bull sharks is they
just jump in the water and start popping the bands on their spear guns and these things show up.
And even in like the surf, like it, like in up in Daytona Beach, you can't go, you can't go surf
for 30 minutes without seeing a fucking shark, black tip spinner sharks, bull sharks, they're
just everywhere, man. And they're, and like, it's a real problem with spear fishermen now,
they are everywhere. Well, the question is this, is this is the, the, the big question,
I think this is a question that's been highlighted in Australia, particularly to do with the
crocodiles and the booming population of the crocodiles. Is that the end of the day?
It's their environment. Yes, it's their environment. It's true. Ultimately. Yeah. You know, because
even in Australia, it's been questioned about, you know, the shark culls and the culls with
crocodiles and all that kind of stuff as well. And that's been a big one, a big issue in Australia
as being, you know, what to do with this increasing crocodile population. But I think there has to
be a very intelligent respect for the fact that, you know, these animals occupy that land space,
they've occupied that land space for millions of years before us. And essentially that's their
environment. So it's not so much of, how do we manage them? It's how do we manage ourselves?
Right. But sharks are, are really protected here. Like you're not even allowed to kill sharks,
you know, you're not allowed to catch sharks for sport, like you're not allowed to have tournaments
where you catch sharks. So Mandy's thing was like, he believes that, you know, they should bring those
back. Like it's not going to hurt to sharks are soaking overpopulated right now. It's, it's,
it would be fair to kill some of the sharks, like they're, it's not a problem. They're not,
there's not too, they're, they're not like in danger. They're not, there's not a problem with
too few sharks reproducing or whatever. There's, if there's anything, there's like
more and more sharks than there have ever been, but it is a cycle at the same time, right? Like
back in the nineties and the eighties, there was a very, very low shark population and then it
ramped up again and went back down again and now it's at its peak. Right. Well, I think
the biggest difference between, I think, um, obviously like, uh, you know, even when I was
in Africa, you have what, what they call like carrying capacity. And even here in the States,
you know, the hunting of deer and the hunting of all these other animals, you know, the ducks and
so forth is there's a, uh, there's a respected amount of animals that can be, uh, essentially
hunted, um, which won't prevent the population at hand. You know, obviously this is, you know,
looked at the, you know, the data is looked at by ecologists and by, you know, wildlife experts
and all that kind of stuff. And there's different modeling systems to identify that. Um, how that
works for sharks and shark populations. I'm not an expert in that. I don't know. Um, but look
in Australia, um, I know we've definitely got that in play, you know, to do with, um,
you know, uh, your target species and even like the size and even like the gender and all that
kind of stuff. Um, can it work? Yes, it can work. Um, but you know, is it one of those things where,
you know, people like to talk about what, uh, what's called like the trophic cascade effect
where you take out like a large predator and then, you know, you've got this unbalanced
in effect that happens in the environment and the ecosystem. Um, I think that's probably where
the big concern is and that's where you have more of like a conservative approach rather than a,
yeah. There's this dude who lives down on the east coast, southeast coast of Florida.
He goes by the name of Python cowboy. Have you heard of him? I think I have heard.
Yeah. So he hunts iguanas. Yes. And I guess iguanas are a huge problem. They're big time
invasive species around here and he does these incredible like expeditions where they go out
and they hunt these iguanas. Uh, and he'll like ride around the rivers and like through
the Everglades on these air boats and they'll pop iguanas with these, uh, these like little
pelagons. I've seen this. Yes. I'm not sure what they do with the iguana because I was going to say
because I know I've just come from Central America and they're everywhere there. Really.
And I know that they got introduced. He didn't know. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. They get, they get brought
here to sort of like call us a different species and then the iguana is eventually
getting out of control and they're killing everything. Sounds like the Australian story.
Yeah. Exactly. It sounds like, um, yeah, because over there, um, you know,
some of the indigenous people, they eat them. They actually taste pretty good like chicken,
you know what I mean? Really? Yeah. So, you know, if they're, if they're an invasive species, then,
uh, yeah, I wonder if there'd be any kind of, um, market to actually sell the meat as an exotic
meat, as a jerky, as, you know, because in Australia, look, we've got a lot of invasive,
a lot of feral species here. We've got, um, a lot of prime production ones. So we've got pigs,
we've got goats, we've got wild horses, wild donkeys, we've got water buffalo. Um,
we've got rabbits, we've got hairs, we've got foxes, mate, the list goes on. We've had some of
the worst invasive species coming to Australia. Like Australia has essentially been identified as
an ecological disaster, so literally, and I think that's probably why the Australian continent,
and we have to be, the Australian continent has become so conservative with our environment.
Like if you try to get into Australia, there's like a natural box that says,
do you have any soil on your shoes? Because of the concern of bringing in any kind of like
soil bacterium. So have you been working on a farm, you know? Uh, so I think Australia is very
proactive in terms of having all these security layers between play to prevent, um, these problems.
And it's not just in the space of, you know, uh, the introduction of a, of an animal species, but
also zoonotic diseases as well. So we've got huge concerns of, you know, like brisselosis or
tuberculosis, foot and mouth disease. And that's only a stone pro way, you know, Indonesia. This is,
this is the whole other topic, which is a huge concern, um, to Australia. And that's why, you
know, our biosecurity and all that kind of stuff, we have to have such a strict thing in play
because Australia was separated as an island for such a period of time. This island is
completely unique. It really is the environment, the ecosystem, the animals, which inhabit these
areas have done so for millions and millions of years and adapted so without the intrusion of
invasive species. And so unlike, unlike America, where you can go and get a tag or a license
for a permit to go and shoot native animals under that whole carrying, carrying capacity approach
in Australia, um, you can't really, I know in the northern territory, you know, we've got the
ability to hunt like the magpie geese and all that kind of stuff, but throughout all the other states,
um, you can't go and shoot kangaroos unless you've got what's called like a commercial harvest
license. So essentially you're only shooting kangaroos to supply for, you know, the, uh, for
the marketplace, right? But in terms of like recreation, you can't go out there and shoot
like a wombat. You can't go and shoot like, you know, it's just, it's completely illegal. You
can't do it. But we do have the novelty of being able to go and hunt feral animals because we've
got so many, like you can spend time in Western Queensland, Western New South Wales and Northern
Territory and you'll probably come across more invasive animals, what we call them invasive
animals. Then you will native animals quite literally, you know? And the big problem about
these invasive animals is they are reservoirs for a lot of dangerous, dangerous diseases. So for
example, like the feral pigs, feral pigs like in Florida are reservoirs for leptosporosis,
like tuberculosis, like Japanese encephalitis, like a real bad one. Same as the water buffalo as
well. So we've introduced these management plans, not just in government sector, but in the private
sector where people can actually go out and harvest these animals and consume them. There's
nothing wrong with consuming the meat if it's prepared the right way. Right. So I've got a
lot of friends that, you know, they'll go and shoot pigs and eat the pigs as well. But yeah.
I didn't know people killed kangaroos. Yeah. So we've got them on the shelf at Woolworths,
the equivalent to Walmart. Yeah. Like the Woolworths. Really? Is it any good?
Look, kangaroo meat is probably one of the best meats that you can have very hot yet,
very high protein base. I do have it from time to time. It's done in a very sustainable way.
Is there a problem with kangaroos? Is there too many of them?
When I think about the word too many, I think what have we done wrong?
Exactly. So we think that we can just come in and play God and try to like fix the balance
of the ecosystem. Well, I think what happened was this, mate, these drinks making me high.
Have you put anything in this drink? How do you feel? I feel like I'm about to do a backflip
out of the sea. It's just great, man. It's like, I've really just started to feel it.
It's cradum, bro. It's amazing. It's like magical. This is not like an advertisement on beans. You're
like, I'm feeling like I'm about to fucking start. Then walk on this table or something.
You drink two of them and you're fucking taking a nap. Mate. Oh, really? Yeah. So in Australia,
what happened was there was a lot of areas which was that they manipulated or manufactured for the
production of like cereal grains like your oats, your barley, your wheat. And so with that, they've
had to introduce like a lot of big irrigation dams and all that sort of stuff. So when you introduce
a resource, so we've got water and now we've got grain, all of a sudden you can actually sustain a
lot of native animal species, right? Particularly like kangaroos, emus, right? So what happened
was like through a lot of like central Queensland and out through New South Wales where the population
probably many years ago was actually quite low because there was no resources or the
availability of such good resources, quality resources, all of a sudden now we've supplied
that. What are you going to have? You're going to have population booms, which we had. And it's not
just the native animals, but like a lot of like rat species being like rat plagues. And with the
rat plagues, it'll be like, you know, snakes like, you know, it's all, it's all like a follow-on kind
of effect. So kangaroos also can get managed as a pest to primary production. So like if you're
all like a wheat owner or oats or whatever, and you identify an area which has been impacted
by the kangaroos, I believe you can acquire a permit to go and shoot them. So these animals,
you're just going to be in shock for probably dogmaid or whatever. This is quite contentious
in Australia because, you know, kangaroos is a beautiful animal. We love our kangaroos,
but at the same time, it's been turned into a commodity. So there can be, you know, a lot of
friction between the conservationists and people who, you know, take the other side of the spectrum,
which is just like, well, hold on, we have a commodity here that can be utilized. And the same
goes for crocodiles as well. You know, there's a lot of speculation about the use of a crocodile
mate because like the alligators here, we have a farming system in play where you can actually
farm crocodiles and solder meats and the skins and all that kind of stuff, which goes for levers.
But the difference is with kangaroos is we don't farm kangaroos. It's called like a wildlife
harvest. So you'll go out into the field, these people that have these licenses, it's got to be
a specific area. You can only shoot a specific amount and not just that, the size of the kangaroos
very important as well. And I'll tell you what happened. This is really interesting. I think
this was back in the 90s and they were doing estimations like population estimates on kangaroos.
And essentially, they went into one area and they said, right, we're going to go in here,
we're going to shoot out, let's just say those 10,000 kangaroos, we're going to go out and shoot
a thousand kangaroos and see, you know, what this does to the population over time.
And I believe there's a CSI row that was doing this population study. And they went in and these
guys went out shooting. Obviously, they went and shot the, you know, the bigger, larger males.
And a couple of years later, they went back and they done like population study. And I think it
quadrupled and they were trying to figure out what the f**k had happened. And this is why
nature is nature. And it's so important to know the depths of how animals interact in their own
communities and their social hierarchies. So essentially, the larger males prevent the smaller
males from breeding. So all of a sudden, when you start shooting out all your larger males,
it then gives the opportunity for the smaller males to breed, you know, because the larger
ones are essentially preventing the, right, which I thought was really interesting. And I think
when this comes to light and you kind of make sense, you kind of like, oh yeah, I can see that now.
This is the concern about going in and managing any kind of wild, you know, animal population.
You just don't know what the, the, the confounding effects are going to be. And we've got some big
examples. Like it was, we've got the cane toad in Australia. And that was probably the dumbest
thing that anyone could have done. The what? The cane toad. The cane toad.
Isn't it here in Florida? Isn't it introduced into Florida as well? It was introduced originally
into Hawaii, then from Hawaii into Australia. This thing has caused, this, this, this creature has
caused, you know, the, almost the extinction of many native species of animals. It's a poisonous toad.
What, well, you know, what's the fact sheet originally coming from South America,
it was introduced into Australia as a form of what we call like biological control,
because at the time of the sugar cane industry in Australia, I believe this was back in the 1950s,
early 1950s, or it could have been 1930s, 1930s something it was. They introduced this cane toad
to eliminate the cane beetle. But the problem was the cane beetle existed at the top of the stalk.
The cane toad is a terrestrial species. They can only go along the ground.
Right. So that was the first floor. We didn't think that one through. No, I didn't think that
one through. The second one that they didn't think through is it's got a toxin that it releases
from what's called the patoid gland at the back of the neck. And essentially this milky substance,
when it's consumed, particularly by any other reptile species, is, it's almost instant death.
So, and even for like a large crocodile, for example, like a saltwater crocodile or a
freshwater crocodile, it consuming this, you know, it can kill it, even like small mammals like
your quolls and all that kind of stuff. Right. You know, all these species were essentially
being affected and the populations numbers were dropping. Huge concern, particularly the
monitor lizards as well, you know, the large monitor lizards and their population was being
declined. So, and the reproduction rate of these animals is just, it's unbelievable. You know,
one female can spawn up to 20,000 eggs or 30,000 eggs or whatever it is. So trying to control
this species in a physical format is just not possible. The only way forward would be, you know,
the release of a virus and what's that going to lead on to that? You know, so, yeah, Australia
has definitely been a place of experiments and a place that probably a lot of the world has
looked at and been like, well, we're not going to do that. You know what I mean? So yeah, but we've
dealt with that. But you know, I think in time, you know, I think technology is going to come to a
point in time where we may be able to reverse a lot of these effects. Coyotes are a huge problem in
the States. They're f***ing everywhere. They're in every neighborhood, every city. Don't care what
city you want to, you want to mention, they're there. They're literally, they're running around
this neighborhood all the f***ing time. And that's a similar thing to what you were explaining with
the kangaroos, but not quite what, I guess what happens when you kill them. The females realize
when another coyote has died or a part of their, their little pack has gotten smaller,
they do some sort of crazy mating call where, and they start reproducing more, they start like
reproducing more pups. I don't know if it's, it's probably not a specific mating call, but what
they do, like somehow biologically, when they know that a part of their pack has died off,
they automatically just produce like more and more pups than they normally had. So it's like a,
it's like a reverse effect of if you're killing more of them, they're just reproducing like triple
what they would have normally, which is really f***ing crazy.
Interesting.
Yeah. Similar to the kangaroo thing.
Right.
I wanted to ask you also, I want to ask you about your, your crazy quest you did through,
what's it called? Like Anum, Onumland?
Onumland.
Onumland?
Yeah.
What was that about? And where, where is Onumland?
Okay. So Onumland is in, I guess the northern frontier, the northern territory. Spines,
have you seen the northern territory before? Like maybe if you get it up on the map, it'll
put things into.
Northern territory of Australia.
Northern territory of Australia. But even if you type in Onumland, which is spelled A-R-N-
Yeah.
Yeah.
A-R-N-H-E-M.
So yeah.
A-R-N-H-E-M.
Onumland.
Yeah.
There you go.
Click on the map, pull her up.
And I guess this is almost like my, my, my, my tourism plug that I'll put in now.
So is this this big national park?
And so that's Kakadu National Park.
Okay.
But if you type in, it might pop up. So it kind of spences all this land through here.
Okay. Got it.
Yeah. So the northern territory in the northern part of Australia is probably one of the most
wildest places on earth. Like it's literally probably the last wild frontier in Australia.
Um, it is a place that has some of our biggest predators. We've got, you know,
obviously a lot of the, you know, crocodiles there.
Amazing bird life.
The, the, the wildlife and the diversity of wildlife and the diversity of habitats
in different bioregions there is unbelievable. It really is.
And I guess that's why it attracts a lot of people even from the, like the U.S.
We've got like a lot of U.S. clients that go to, um, yeah.
So that's actually where I started.
Oh, wow.
Down where it says Numbua.
Yeah. On the coast, that's where I started the walk.
Um, essentially I walked from there all the way into Catherine,
which was about 700 and something kilometers.
Holy shit.
Yeah. So I walked directly across it.
What's that 500 miles or something like that?
Something like that. Yeah.
So it'd never been accomplished before by a solo person and there's Catherine just there
just below and it looked good.
So, um, yeah.
Catherine.
And I'd like to say, you know, I walked it as a crow flies,
but that's impossible because it's such a treacherous landscape.
I was actually told by a lot of people that it just wasn't possible.
It couldn't be done.
And that to me, I feel like that's where I'm at in my life now, Daniel.
When someone says, when something can't be done and I'm in a proper, like,
you know, that can't be done or whatever.
That's where I really go.
I feel like I've saturated myself with like a lot of things.
But if there's something like, that's what really caught me laugh.
And for us, it's probably going to say, don't you dare.
But that Tasmanian tiger, if there is a good confirmed sighting of that thing
in Western Papua New Guinea, I'll drop everything now
and I'll spend the next six months there trying to hunt that thing down to find it.
Turned by the thylacine.
Thylacine, Tasmanian tiger.
Yep.
Is there any evidence that that thing's still around?
Or is it any of them left?
I think there's a very small circle of people that know
a bit of information about it.
There may potentially be a location out there in Western Papua New Guinea.
Really?
There may, there may be.
Definitely not in Tasmania or on the Australian mainland.
You really think you could catch this thing?
Oh, look, I wouldn't want to catch it.
That would be the last thing on my list.
Okay.
I don't want to touch it.
You don't want to even touch it?
No.
I would love to take a picture of it.
I would love to film it doing its thing.
You know, that would, I think, and maybe even to be honest,
and I'll be completely honest here.
No, I will just catch it.
No, I think it's too precious.
I think this is to the deeper core of me, I think, as my connection with nature.
You know what?
I don't even think I'd want to take a picture of it or film it.
Because what am I doing there?
Yeah.
What am I doing?
Right.
I'm doing the very thing that I just said at the original start of the podcast that I'm against.
It's that whole exploitation of, you know, it's trying to make a name for myself.
You know what I mean?
Like, I think if nature, if nature.
I don't think you're hurting anything by taking a photo of a thylacine.
You're not giving up its location.
I think the concern, yeah, I think the concern would be if I did something like that,
the amount of people that would jump on the bandwagon and try and go out there.
Right.
That's where my concern would be for that animal.
And I think the depths of where I'm at, I think now in my life would be if I did see
something like that.
Maybe what I'd do is I'd show a couple of very select few people and say,
this is the picture.
This is the footage.
This doesn't go anywhere else, but it's there.
But it is there.
You know, who those people would be?
I'd show Forrest, definitely.
Right.
And just so he could say, yeah, he's definitely found one.
There'd probably be a small handful of people, but I don't think I would release it
to the world and say, you know, yeah, I just I think it's personal.
It's a really it's it's really personal, I feel only because it represents such a
an internationally hot topic.
This animal that they it's been questioned so much that this animal is being extinct
and now it's alive and the sightings and all that kind of stuff.
And I think a lot of that's been debunked.
But if it was out there in Papua New Guinea, I think it would be unbelievable.
It really would.
Do you think if we if they found it, they would try to bring it back and try to like
increase its population?
I think the first thing that would happen is this.
If it's still there, it's essentially saying one thing that's been
undisturbed and there's probably nothing wrong with the population there.
Right.
That's probably the first thing where my mind would go.
The second thing is if someone did come across it,
I'm just trying to think, look, I don't know what Papua New Guinea is like of the government.
But if they if if a place knows that it's got something,
if it's got a white unicorn, I would be concerned that they might fund an internal
project to capture some specimens and say we want an investment to create a zoo or whatever
to bring the world to Papua New Guinea to show them.
And they would wrap it into a very conservation zoo logical featured thing.
And from an economic point of view, it would be a huge.
Do what human beings do.
We fucking we get something and we manipulate it.
Yes.
And I think that's probably that would be my ties it.
That would be my gut instinct to what the government would do.
That would be my gut gut.
Probably right.
Yeah.
I think you're right about that.
Because Papua New Guinea, I think is quite it's a developing country.
And if they had that if they had that unicorn, that golden card,
they're definitely going to use it to their advantage.
I think it's probably the smartest idea, no matter what species it is and whether
there's too many of them or too little of them.
It's probably, I mean, look, I'm sure there's nuance in here.
There's probably, it's probably not just black and white, but by and large,
we probably shouldn't try to fuck with it.
100%.
Yeah.
Well, look, they are going to bring, you know, I think Forest follows that
that laboratory group quite well.
They are going to try and bring one back, you know, and I think in our lifetime,
we will see one.
But whether or not there are still living specimens today.
And I went through that whole thing with him, you know, as why I believe there's
not any in Tasmania.
You know, this is imagine like a honey, a big form of honey badger here.
And, you know, this is, you know, it was a scavenger animal.
It was an opportunist.
It used to move vast distances.
It had a huge home range.
It would have popped up in someone's backyard.
It would have popped up at a campsite.
It wasn't necessarily a fearless animal of people because that's why it was such
an easy animal to hunt.
I think, I think that if there was a small population in Tasmania, it would have
popped up with the amount of game cameras, with the amount of solo people which
it went in there trying to explore to take that golden picture.
I think even The Times magazine back in the day said they were going to give a
billion dollars.
It was like a one billion dollars for live footage of Tasmanian tiger.
I think they had something like that back in the day.
Look, no one's.
I think the last reported sighting was in 86, something or 88 by a guy by the
name of Nick Mooney, who was a Parks and Wildlife Ranger.
And Forest has actually done that interview with him.
And he said, look, I don't think there was a tourism plug.
I generally believe he saw one, or one of the last ones.
Yeah, one of the last ones.
But it's a shame what happened.
It just goes to show that when humans come in and we try to manage things in a way
that we think is right for our best interests, this is what happens.
We lose a beautiful species like this from the earth.
Yeah, man.
But yeah, I would love to catch one.
Fuck it.
We're going to go for it.
We're going to get him.
Hold on.
I'd be hated.
But I don't care because I'd have my Tasmanian tiger.
Yeah, right.
But yeah.
But Arnhem Land.
So what made you decide you wanted to trek 800 kilometers across this fucking barren
landscape?
What is it made of?
Like, what is it?
Is it all forests or swamps?
Like, what does it consist of?
Well, to answer the question, what made me do it?
I think one word, fear, fear.
Had anyone else, were you aware of anyone else who had done it?
I am sure.
I'm not going to take anything away from the Aboriginal people.
The Aboriginal people are unbelievable, really.
Indigenous Australians and what they can do.
I'm sure they traversed it back and forth and back and forth and up and down and all
that kind of stuff and they've done it as a group.
I think I'm the first white man to have done it solo.
I do believe, however, that Indigenous people walked.
They walked that continent backwards and forth.
You know what I mean?
Part of the reason why I wanted to do it was there was a lot of fear about walking
that place.
And to answer that question of what does it comprise of?
Arnhem Land comprises of flood plains.
It comprises of swamps, billabongs, escarpments.
It is so diverse in the habitat features which are there,
which is what brings a lot of tourism into the area.
Because it's such a wild space.
It's also a space which is perishable.
You get lost out there.
And if you get lost out there, you don't know what you're doing.
You'll die pretty fast, eh?
It's remote.
It's a very remote land.
And there are Aboriginal communities that exist all throughout it.
I think there's a population up to like 20,000 Aboriginal people that still
sustain themselves.
Are they friendly?
Yeah.
Look, I don't like these uncontacted tribes that will shoot you to six foot arrows.
No.
Look, I think in general, you know, the Aboriginal people out there definitely
want their privacy.
And to go into these areas, you need a special permit to do so,
to go into those areas.
But, you know, Aboriginal people are very welcoming.
I think there's probably, you know, to the outside people from the US
that don't know much about the Aboriginal people in Australia,
very welcoming.
They're very fun to hang out with in the bush as well.
The ingenuity is unbelievable.
Actually, part of my job working with the Australian Defence Force,
so that's something I do as well part-time,
is we do a lot of recruiting with Indigenous Australians.
And they're amazing because they know all those places,
like the back of their hands, they're almost like the security guards of the bush.
So we call it like the human terrain model, where we try to understand more
about what's happening in those remote areas where we don't have surveillance
because the Indigenous people out there, they are our eyes and ears,
and we get a lot of our intel from them.
So particularly in a lot of our remote coastal areas,
where there might be drug importation coming in,
you know, illegal fishing and all that kind of stuff.
Really?
The Indigenous people, yeah.
Oh, they'll see tracks walking down the road,
and they'll know whose footsteps they are within the community.
If the footsteps don't look right, they'll be like,
okay, something's going on here.
So yeah, we've got the best, we've got the best, the best surveillance.
It's called the Australian Defence Force.
We have the best surveillance system in the world in the northern parts of Australia,
and that's the Aboriginal people.
Wow, that's incredible.
What sort of people are you guys looking for up there?
You said drug trafficking?
Essentially, yeah, from Indonesia.
Yeah, so from, yeah.
So we do get quite a lot from that pathway that comes in,
because, you know, Indonesia is not too far from Australia.
There's a lot of like archipelagos, like little islands in between.
And so, yeah, that's definitely a transit route for drugs.
But yeah, so it's actually called Norforce,
so it's a division, sorry, it's a squadron that I'm in, part time.
Is that Norforce?
So N-O-R-F-O-R-C-E, yeah.
Okay, Norforce.
Norforce, yeah.
Wow, are these some of the natives there?
Indigenous, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, look, it's an amazing place and it's full of so many different skill sets.
You know, when we're out there and we're doing operations on the coastline,
it's, you're always learning something from the Indigenous people,
you know, whether it's like different types of bush taco
or how to navigate through the bush.
Yeah, it's an amazing thing to become part of.
That's wild.
So I've been doing that for a couple of years now.
So when you did this trek, okay, sorry, go ahead.
Yep, so yeah, so Arnhem Land, so it was 700 kilometres, it was a fear of mine,
all different types of landscape through there.
And I took a horse, which was essentially a green horse.
Like, I was, no, Danny, I was a fucking idiot.
Like, I'm not a horse person though.
First thing.
Like, you know, the original idea was I picked up a donkey from a fucking property owner.
If I'm going to do the trek with a donkey.
This donkey was the biggest, right?
He had a character, but he was a proper, you know,
he definitely wasn't a stallion.
But yeah, originally I was going to do it with a donkey.
And then it worked out to be a bad idea,
not because we didn't have an amazing connection or relationship.
This donkey was like my best friend.
He's like, you know, like this, like Trek's donkey or that.
What about a mule?
Do you think about getting a mule?
A mule would be good.
Yeah, they're a hardy animal.
But this donkey, so he was loyal to the fact
that he would follow me everywhere and all that kind of stuff.
But as soon as I put a rope around him, he was like, well, hold on one second.
You putting a rope around me, we're not on the same level now, are we?
I'm like subservient to you.
He didn't like that.
No, he did not like that.
And he was smart.
Like I was trying to train him and I like crossed like a bit of a river.
And I was like trying to lead him and he'd be like, I'm not going.
But he was smart.
He'd wait for me to cross the river first,
almost like look out for crocodiles.
He'd be like, oh, he waited at safety the other side.
Now I'll go.
If you're going to put yourself in a situation
where you're going to be relying on an animal for your survival,
because he was carrying my water, he was carrying my food,
don't pick an animal, which is a liability.
Right.
Okay.
So I went with a green horse.
Even after that lesson had been learned,
I took a horse that had never had a pack saddle on it.
Yes.
And in four days, I was trying to teach this animal to have weight on its bow.
It was a disaster.
Stupid honor.
I look up on some dumb things, but you know what they say?
You know what they say?
What did they say?
The worst of ideas make for the greatest of memories.
That's a good, that's very true.
But it was, oh, look, it was a challenging, challenging experience.
And I was completely living off the land.
I was hunting anything and everything I could find out there,
running down water buffles.
This is another Netflix episode.
How much food and water did you bring with you?
So water provisions.
I believe I was using the Camelback Blooders.
I think I had up to about 12 liters of water.
Okay.
Right.
So that's 12 kilos there.
Was that enough to last you, you think?
You imagine you could do the math?
No, no, no, no, no.
So in this route that I was transiting,
I was actually going through river systems
and going through billabongs where I would have to, you know,
get water, boil it, prepare it and all that kind of stuff.
There were obviously places I could drink like straight from the river
because of how, you know, clean it is.
You are running risks there of getting, you know, waterborne,
you know, bacterium and all that kind of stuff.
But I felt over the years, my guts become pretty hard
and that sort of stuff.
But yeah, look, in a survival sense, prepare your water.
Okay.
That's my first advice.
But yeah, look, I was running down pigs.
I was catching water buffaloes and all that kind of stuff.
And, you know, Barrow Mundy and Spear and Barrow Mundy
and yeah, essentially just living off the land.
But I went in it, I think 74 kilos and walked out at like 52 kilos.
I took rations of rice and like the short breads,
but that didn't last long.
And then my body just essentially went into a form of ketosis
because I was succeeding or, you know, meet products.
And I became very wiry and my instinct was so sharp, so sharp.
And you have all these innate instincts inside of you, right?
So you'll be, for example, because it was such a period of time
though I was going without sugar,
my body instinctively was making me look up.
I think one was my body.
What?
Why is it making me look up?
And what's interesting is when you're in the bush,
I feel like your body, your brain says,
download in information, right?
And so there must have been, as a child,
me getting honey from a beehive, you know, up high.
And that's an instinctive clue.
You know, glucose, honey, look up high.
You know, all these little innate kind of things
which are just sinking in, you know?
And it's just funny, even things of, you know,
the animal tracks, you know, animal tracks leading you to water.
This is all subconscious things
that would be going through my mind
that your brain just taps into.
You're not even consciously thinking about this,
but it's like-
This is just like evolution boiling up to the surface.
Oh, yes, 100%.
And we all have it inside of us.
I think that's been one of my biggest messages
is everyone on this earth, you are living on this earth.
We've come from this earth.
We didn't come from any worlds.
We've came from, we've evolved from this earth.
We have the skills, the ability, we have the biology,
we have everything inside of us to sustain us
in any kind of environment.
And we do, we've got that ability,
but we need to train ourselves to get back there.
That's so fascinating.
We are losing it.
That blew my mind,
because Paul Rosely explained that really concisely
when he was in here,
how when he first went down to the Amazon
and he was wearing his shoes,
they were all laughing at him like,
look at this gringo with the shoes on
and then eventually he took them off.
And after like a couple of days,
walking through the jungle, like the jungle,
the birds, the monkeys, the way the wind blows,
it all communicates to you in a way
where you understand what's going on.
You understand where danger is.
You understand where you need to go.
And it's just like this crazy network.
It's this network that just connects to you
and these innate traits that we have
and these signals or antennas that we have inside of us
that are buried from technology come to the surface.
And now we are communicating with the forest
and with nature and it's fucking, it's fascinating.
I think, you know, generational as well,
like if you think about it,
like our ancestors and all this information,
there's got to be genetic material which is being passed on.
Whether it could be the fear of snakes, for example.
You know, if your grandfather's grandfather
had a bad experience with a snake,
this is kind of like information
which has been passed down the lines.
And I really believe in that kind of information.
You know, even like character traits, for example,
you know, when someone turns and say,
oh, you're just like your uncle,
you're just a stubborn as your uncle,
or you're just a stubborn as your father,
whatever it might be.
I believe it's true because we see this same
downloading of information in nature.
And they've actually seen it with,
you know what I was talking about with the cane toads?
Yeah.
Okay.
So what's happened now is monitor lizards,
now the generation of monitor lizards in Australia
do not consume cane toads.
They've learnt not to.
You know why?
Because through the process of this species
adapting to the cane toads,
there has been selective decisions
which have been made probably by individuals,
not to consume it based on smell
or the way it looks or whatever.
And that genetic information
is now being passed through.
And I've watched it.
I've watched them monitor lizards go up to a cane toad
and just completely avoid it.
And it's got nothing to do with the fact
that it's learnt it as a species on this earth now,
like as an individual.
This has been information
which has been hardwired through.
It's not like they can write a memo.
Like the turtles, how the turtles will,
you know, navigate for,
you know, islands that they've never been to
or a crocodile, for example,
will leave from one place and go to an island
where the turtles will be simultaneously hatching.
How did they even know that information?
This is all information which is being passed on.
So we're not too different from the animals as well.
I believe there's a lot of information
which is inside of us,
you know, at a very deeper level.
That can only come to the surface
if you put yourself in those situations.
And I believe it.
I 100% I believe it.
We are animals.
Only a couple of hundred years ago,
our ancestors were out there living off the land.
Right.
Literally, it's not far.
So what were some of the biggest things you noticed,
like in your body or things that changed in you
after you went so many days
without eating any carbs or rice or anything,
and you were only eating what you killed?
Like other than the fact you said you were always looking up.
But was there anything else?
I realized how much I missed the fucking subway.
You do get cravings.
My biggest cravings is always fruit loops and Snickers.
There's high sugar.
It's like, yeah, all the way.
And Fanta, don't know why.
So you're just fantasizing about junk food
when you're out there.
A lot of times you are.
Yeah.
And I think that's like an evolutionary thing,
where it's just like, you know,
it keeps you enticed to, you know,
keep hunting or tracking.
In that situation,
you become very calculated at how much energy
that you use up and what you're chasing.
Like for example, I'd see like a group of pigs
and just by watching them,
I'd be like, right, I can see the weakest link there.
And I'd be working out in my head strategically.
I'd be calculating how much energy
it's going to take to acquire that animal.
Because I do what's called persistence hunting,
where I chase that animal down.
You know what I mean?
So if I know that I'm going to be running
like two or three kilometers,
how much energy do I have in me to get me that distance?
And how much energy am I going to get back from that animal?
Does that make sense?
So it's like using like an energy system sort of thing.
That can only work so long because, you know,
running your body just off eating meat and organs
and all that kind of stuff.
Yeah.
Although nutritional in terms of energy though,
you need your carbs.
And that was something that I was lacking.
So yeah, my body was slowly deteriorating.
Really?
Yes.
Yep.
What I do think is interesting is actually after this,
and this is actually part of the reason
of joining Norforce was I had one of the high commanders
got in contact with us after I'd done this expedition
through Ireland and said,
did you know that the Australian Defence Force,
we run a survival course?
And then that's what actually got me involved
in the Australian Defence Force.
Oh, no, sure.
Being a survival instructor.
Yeah.
But they had heard of my antics and catching animals
and all that kind of stuff.
And, you know, when you have these self-taught
abilities and skill sets, they're priceless.
You can't read them in a book, you know?
So yeah, it was a way of me being able to teach
some of my skills, abilities and techniques to soldiers
in any kind of situation where they'd have to survive
for like a period of time.
So how many days total did that track take?
It was 42.
42 days.
Did you have any sort of like lifeline in case
you got really in trouble?
Did you have like a sat phone?
I did.
So I did have to sort it out in that way.
There was a time where I got lost and I thought,
I'm in some big trouble now.
Like, so batteries all out all gone
because I was running off like solar,
like solar power sort of thing.
But I did work out that if I kept walking,
if I essentially kept walking in a westerly format,
I was going to hit river systems.
And so when hitting river systems,
yeah, essentially you look,
you can sustain yourself for a period of time.
There's a lot of food out there.
Any given time, I knew that I could get out of that situation.
But look, a lot of people go missing in the Northern
Territory and generally they will cast,
this is a rescue services,
they will cast a three-day window
or a four-day window with searches.
Reason being is,
and there's actually a guy I think in South Australia,
he's a doctor,
and when they do a rescue on someone,
let's just say it's you,
they'll go, right, they'll get in contact
with your local doctor,
can I get all these health records?
Okay.
Is he asthmatic?
Does he have, you know,
blood glucose problems
and thought about how old is he,
how fit he is,
what's his BMI and all that kind of stuff.
And strategically,
they'll just develop like a biological format
around you to see how long you'll last.
No shit.
Based on layers.
So whether you're in the cold,
whether you're in this climate,
whether you're in the Northern Territory,
if you're in the Northern Territory,
don't know what it is in Fahrenheit,
but 35, 38 degree days,
you go out there without water,
you're probably going to last,
we call it the rule of three.
So, you know, three days without water,
three weeks without food,
you know, three minutes without oxygen,
three hours exposed to the environment,
you know, whether you're in the cold
or in the heat and all that kind of stuff.
This is like a general format that they use,
but yeah, we'll generally cast
about a three day window for people,
you know, between three and five days
to survive out there in the in the outback.
If you've got no real understanding or skill set,
you got to be careful about,
you perish, you perish fast out there.
The crows, the crows will be your friend.
Even when I was walking on them,
the crows would be hanging around.
Really?
Watching me 100%.
Yeah.
But they started, you know,
they actually realized, I think,
they actually realized because I was so successful,
with what I was doing in terms of hunting food.
I reckon I had these pair of crows
follow me all the way from the coast
of fucking Numbulwa into Kaferun.
They follow me because every single time
I was catching food or pigs or whatever,
I'll just find the scraps.
I'll eat the scraps.
I'll just follow me like a beacon.
And you were just building fires to cook the pigs?
Yeah, 100%.
Yeah, of course.
Yeah, everything.
What were you afraid of?
Was that what would have been the number one way?
You know, you're afraid of,
you're afraid of your own isolation.
You're afraid of yourself and your own, you know, whatever.
I've never.
What was the biggest threat to you out there?
So I rolled my ankle actually,
trying to, trying to catch a water buffalo.
And so that was bad because then I had to strap it.
Look, I've always told people,
this would be my advice.
And this is in a psychological format.
Don't look at it like you've got to walk 700 kilometers
because that's really going to mentally get to you.
The way that you've got to be able to undertake
any kind of expedition, you know,
like a long-term expedition,
you've got to break it down.
So the way that you've got to say to yourself is,
right, break down that 700 kilometers
into like 10 kilometer journeys
or 15 kilometer days.
So in your mind frame,
that morning when you wake up,
isn't, I've got to go 700 kilometers.
No, no.
Keep that in the back of your mind.
When you wake up,
you objectify that you need to walk 15 kilometers to the next billable.
That's where your day is ending.
And tomorrow will be a new day.
That is the way that you undertake those expeditions.
Whether you walk in the fucking Amazon River,
whatever you're doing,
you need to be able to break down
and compartmentize the journey.
Because if you're thinking as a thing as a whole,
you're mentally going to fry yourself out.
There's the same from a book.
And it goes.
And this is almost always hits an emotional part of me.
Because me and that horse went through fucking a lot, man.
Fuck, we went through fucking hell.
And I remember there was a day out there for two days
where I went without water.
That was tough.
48 hours from no water.
Whilst walking, that was a bad one.
And so at the start of the trip,
me and this horse, we couldn't have been any further apart
of the human and fucking horse.
And as the trip went along,
obviously the connection didn't build and build and build
to the point that we were able to actually do this thing together.
I didn't even need a rope on him.
Rope on him.
Really?
No, he just followed me.
In fact, he was actually helping me catch the,
I don't know if you got, yeah.
So that one down there, that's a water buffalo.
Asianic water buffalo.
Which picture?
So down here to the right, go right.
Bottom right?
Yeah, that one.
Yeah.
Yeah, like the ones we have here.
Dude, that's a big fucking beast.
Oh, they are.
You can catch them.
Beast.
I was telling Forest how I catch them.
You were going to eat one?
Well, I took down three when I was there.
What?
Yeah.
The shit thing was I only had a small knife, a K-bar.
I only had like a four inch blade.
So that was, yeah.
So when I tied them up and brought them down
and then I had to kill it with that knife.
That was, how did you do that?
It's, okay, I can explain it.
It's quite graphic.
I just want to let people know that
when you are in a situation, a survival situation,
yes, keep your morals about you.
Yes, keep your ethics about you.
But the only way to survive is you need to be a savage.
The same publics, the same fucking,
you're not shopping at the grocery store.
You're literally late for death.
You have to be a, yeah, yeah, yeah.
You become a savage.
Yeah.
Okay.
But, you know, yes, you try and keep your morals
and ethics about you.
How I had to kill him, you bring him down to the ground,
tie him up so he can't move.
So when, first of all, when you spotted him, where was he?
When he made his own land.
So, so he wasn't in the water?
He was, because usually they're in the water.
Yeah.
So normally they do hang around with water, the water buffalo.
And you find it in around the billabongs,
particularly in the, in the early mornings
and later in the afternoons.
That's when I come to drink.
But during the day, you'll just see him out in the flood plain.
You just see him out walking.
And then you, you pick your, you pick your match, you know,
generally you're going for an older bull,
like an older male bull.
Right, right, right.
And yeah, you stick to him.
You make that commitment and you just keep going for him.
So I had a lasso.
So I'd run him.
So persistence hunting.
So I'm running behind, running behind, running behind,
running behind.
And we're talking, are we talking sprinting or jogging?
Or how fast?
So I'm not talking David Radisha, 800m sprinting.
You see a bolt?
Or you say bolt.
No, no, you keep an average speed on him.
You keep pressure on him.
And those are all the bulls.
Yeah, they'll run for a good distance,
but I normally just keep behind him.
What you want is you want that animal to turn back on you.
Any animal that turns back on you.
I say, yeah, you're laughing because that animal's made a decision
that it's went from flight into fight.
Right.
And now it's okay.
Well, now it's mano imano.
So what I would do is I'd run with these animals
and then I would get a lasso around him
and then I'd run with him with the lasso.
Now you're talking about a one ton animal.
The only way to hold up a one ton animal
is what I would do is as I was chasing behind him,
he would go to one side of the tree.
Like imagine, as I'm running, you need to pick your trees good too
because your tree's going to be anchor point.
So you've got about 25 metres of rope.
You're running with this buffalo and all of a sudden you see a tree up ahead
and you chase him in such a way that he goes to the left or to the right of a way.
But in that point, you put the sprint on him.
So you're right up his back end because what you're now going to time
is as soon as you go past that tree, you've got to run.
It sounds like you're fucking sliding over the baseball.
How do they slide?
You've got to slide and get one rope in to anchor.
Does that make sense?
So as he goes down one side of the tree, you go the other
and you get that first anchor in.
Now that can be very dangerous because you lose your hands very fast.
Your hands get caught up in that road.
I said, you'll pull your fucking arms out.
Get him anchored.
Once he's anchored and you tie that off,
then it's about him going into fight mode.
So he's there.
He's fighting this lasso and then all of a sudden you walk towards him
and they're smart.
They're a smart animal, very calculated.
I get him to charge me, but as I'm getting there to charge me,
I just keep running around the tree.
So what I'm doing is I'm just lowering the rope, you know what I mean?
Like I'm listening and getting to a point where he almost wraps himself up around the tree.
Then I'll get a back leg.
Right, another bit of rope, back leg.
And then I essentially just use his motion against him to get that back leg up.
As soon as I get that back leg up, he'll roll, he'll tip.
And then you've got to be fast because then you've got to get in there.
You've got to tie their back legs up.
So animals now on the ground, back legs are tied.
You've got to be careful because they can still move their horns and all that kind of stuff.
So yeah, you're trying to essentially get him entangled.
At that point in time, you know, you've definitely got to have your connection
with your animal and I talked to him.
That's all I mean, everything's going to be okay.
Everything's going to be fine.
Take your shirt off, wrap it around his eyes.
And then I would, because the skin of a buffalo is so thick
and I've only got a four inch blade, what I'd have to do is I would literally cut.
I'm just going to say I'm all fucked up.
I'd have to cut almost like a patch.
Like, cut a patch, right, pull the skin and then get the blade in
and then literally try and get my hands inside so that I can start cutting.
Because trying to get to the, your artery, it's actually quite deep.
Wow.
Yeah.
You have to get like fist deep in there just to get to the artery.
Holy shit, bro.
Yeah.
So it's pretty, like I said, it can be a pretty deep sort of thing going on there.
But look, I can't fucking even imagine, dude.
I think, did you, did you just figure this out?
Or did you, did you sort of know or understand or talk to people
who have caught water buffalo before?
Nobody catches them like that.
People do it in the, in the-
You just made this up as you were going.
Yeah, well, that's what I've done though.
That's, I go and I catch animals.
I figure out different ways of doing it, different methodologies of doing it.
And just, yeah, just, I love it.
And actually catching water buffaloes is probably the one thing
I actually enjoy doing in the Northern Territory
because it represents the biggest danger and the biggest challenge.
But I love it, man.
I really, I get kicks for it.
I love it.
You are fucking savage.
But I don't kill, no, I just, I don't kill them.
You know, I'll catch them, release and all that kind of stuff.
But when I was doing this trek, I was catching them.
Of course I was catching the kill.
Yeah.
That is so intense.
Yeah, I don't, yeah.
So I've never really opened up, talked about this too much
because this would make a lot of people feel uncomfortable
and they'd probably look at me different
and be like, man, this guy's real fucked up.
I don't think so.
No, I think the respect that I have and what I've had to do,
I think people would be very surprised.
And I think there's got to be a lot of discipline.
There's got to be a lot of discipline in what I do.
And I think, you know, your connection with the animal,
you know, the welfare of the animal and all that kind of stuff
that needs to play a big part in it.
You know, someone that's not of that mind space, you know, they've,
yeah, they're a bit different.
I think there's a lot that goes through my mind
when I'm doing that consciously.
Yeah, man, you're doing it with your bare hands and a rope
and a four inch blade.
I mean, it doesn't get any more intimate than that.
No.
There's one thing I'll say, and this is important.
I think it's probably worthwhile I say this.
The old quote that I was getting to is, it actually starts off as,
there's a boy and a horse and they're in the forest.
And the boy says to the horse, I can't see a way through.
And the horse says to the boy, can you see your next step?
And the boy says, yes.
And then the horse replies will then just take that.
And I think that's a huge analogy out there.
I think for anyone that's listening, if you find yourself in life
where you're in a situation, you don't know what to do
and all that kind of stuff.
As long as you just keep moving forwards.
100%.
That is the way to go about it.
And things can look dark and deep and bad.
And I've definitely faced that when I've been out in the bush
and I've done expeditions and all that kind of thing.
But as long as you keep pushing forward and you keep positive,
I was prepared to fucking crawl out of there.
I was prepared to finish that thing by fucking crawling.
100%.
And I think everyone that has a deep motivation inside of them
and I dare say probably 99% of people on this earth
never really get to tap into that deepest part of their motivation.
That survival motivation.
And that stays with you because I can still remember.
I can still remember the mindset.
I can still remember every single animal's eyes that I've had to look into to kill.
You collect all that.
You collect all that information.
You never lose that.
You hold on to that.
Wow, man.
That's fucking heavy, dude.
Yeah, you're probably right.
It's got to be less than 0.01% of the population
who has ever experienced anything like this.
And it's scary to think how much farther are we away
from completely losing it all together with the development of technology
and artificial intelligence and all these phones.
And now we have fucking Apple goggles that people are wearing,
walking down the street, fucking doing conference calls on.
And it's interesting to think how human beings are going to look in 50, 100,
500 years the way we're going right now
and how far away we are from what you experienced on that fucking,
on that quest you went through, man.
It seems like we are losing a lot of our,
a lot of the senses that you talk about that you regain when you go there.
And stuff like that Paul talks about when he's in the rainforest.
Paul knows as well, spending time in the jungle is you have to,
there's a frequency, there's a wavelength that you have to tap into.
And you can only get there by immersing yourself out there.
And I dare say, look, I've been on a pretty wonderful trip through Central America
and Nicaragua and Costa Rica and Colombia.
My true freedom is being in the bush by myself.
That's my freedom.
That's the realness of it, you know what I mean?
That is the pure realness of my freedom.
And I wish, I really wish that a lot of people get to find their freedom and their connection.
I believe that that can sometimes be the recipe for a lot of things in life.
We're dealing in a world now where mental health is a big problem.
Suicides are a consistent problem and all that kind of stuff.
And I think people need to be able to identify their escape in some way where they feel,
you know, they can be more than the person that they are.
And we are designed to be out there.
And only when you're out there, do you know what you really are as a person?
As me, as we sit across the table from each other, as a species,
do we know our very design and what we're designed from?
Really?
Yeah, we were hunting.
We were, we were, I don't know, it sounds crazy.
We were sharpening spears and, you know, let's go back about four, five thousand years.
We were sharpening, we were, we were a formidable species that survived off this earth.
We've, we've, we've lost that.
Maybe some of us very few have this like a recessive gene that gets followed through
to keep it there in the cyc.
I've definitely felt that.
Remember when I said when I was a kid, I just didn't know why this fucking random guy was
running around chasing animals and stuff.
And like, I'll see a bird fly and like, I'll just like, maybe that was something that's
instinctively just kept there.
Just think, just in case.
Right.
Just in case, don't know.
Were there any other crazy fucking animals that you had to run into that you weren't
prepared for that either you had to evade or you had to hunt?
Well, look, there's obviously a very high population of saltwater crocodiles
in the Northern Territory.
You've just got a picky river system smart.
And most people in the Northern Territory would hear that and be like,
they're all in there and they are true.
But I think there's certain junctions in certain places where you can walk, which would be
through the water, which would be less dangerous than others.
That's definitely the case.
There are a lot of guys out there right now doing pig hunting and all that sort of stuff.
Crocodiles are a dangerous animal to deal with because they're an ambush predator.
I've got a lot of respect for all those animals.
I see them all the time when I'm out there doing.
So I do tours in the Northern Territory where I take people out and I teach them what I know.
And it's a very immersive.
You'll have to come one day when you come to it.
There's the introduction right there.
Very inclusive.
I do.
I like this is my plug now.
I'm doing my plug.
Australian Wild Tours.
So I take people out there and I teach them how to survive.
So I use obviously information from the mandate of the Australian Defence Force,
my own survival techniques and all that kind of stuff.
And essentially my job is teaching you how to become comfortable and confident in nature.
And so I run a number of different programs where I teach people that.
When we're out there is obviously a huge focus on crocodile safety.
Well, they're everywhere there.
There's heaps of crocodiles.
Look, I think it's a master.
I've seen some things with crocodiles over the years,
which have really surprised me.
They're a sneaky animal.
And they it's almost like the crocodile get these your lives.
It's almost like the crocodile was designed to exist between your behavioural wavelength.
Let me explain that.
Okay, let me explain it.
When you're in an environment that you don't know, after a while,
it's natural for us to develop a pattern and to develop a sense of comfortability with it.
So let's just say you move to an area for the first time and you know,
you work out where the shops are.
You work out like shortcuts to get down to the park or whatever.
You're essentially hard wiring your brain to go from point A to point B to point C
in a very biologically calculating way.
Same way an animal goes down to, you know, place the feed or then goes into like,
you know, vegetation to, you know, take refuge or whatever.
They develop a pattern at play.
Now, what happens is when you develop a pattern is you become incredibly confident and complacent.
These are the two things that a crocodile will use against you.
So I'll give you an example.
You get down to a nice camping place in the Northern Territory.
You go there to collect like a bucket of water on the first day, you know, to,
you know, wash dishes or, you know, wash your car.
And you go down there and you collect water down at the bank.
You know, you're looking out there like, I can't see anything, go and collect water
or go and get away with it.
Second day, you go down there, same thing.
Third day, fourth day, fifth day.
I know, 10 days in, you're still doing it.
Everything's all fine.
Naturally, what happens in every human being is you become so confident in your surroundings
that you going down to collect water is nothing more than an automated response in your brain.
That's where it gets you.
That's where he's been watching.
He's been following your pattern.
So on the seventh day or the eighth day that you go down there just to click water as you did,
like the interview that I done with that kid, they got swiped, is...
What interview?
Oh, so that was the interview I'd done.
We've, it was two interviews I'd done.
One was with a guy who'd lost his wife to a crocodile attack and I asked what had happened
and she went down there to clean dishes down there at the river where she'd went for the last
week or two weeks and changed things up.
But no, she'd went into a pattern and she got taken and the husband watched her get taken.
So that crocodile will know the exact pinpoint location and time doesn't matter for that animal.
He's got all the time in the world.
He'll wait there all day.
He'll wait there for three or four days.
He's got all the time in the world, you know what I mean?
And so where the issue comes in is it comes into your natural possession of
confidence and complacency in your brain.
He'll wait all day for you.
He'll wait there and he'll get you.
That's why they're dangerous is because they can understand your pattern probably better than yourself.
Is that why you have an advantage when you go to like catch them?
Because you're coming in there, they haven't seen you before.
You're not going there every day.
You are doing the same thing, but the rules are reversed.
You know what they're doing.
You know where they are.
Look, there's so much boasting about the crocodiles.
I could take a 14-year-old child out on a dinghy and say, right,
I'm going to teach you how to catch a four meter or five meter crocodile.
And it's not hard.
Yes, there are very dangerous and a lot of things that can go wrong,
but there's a technique to it.
Going at night time, you can use like a pole with a lasso.
There's many different ways of being able to capture an animal like that and get him under
control and safely.
Manny hunts gators with those things.
Oh, yeah, a hundred percent.
I'd love to meet him one day.
I'd love to meet Manny.
Yeah, that'd be incredible to get you guys together.
Yeah, I'd really love to.
Because like I said, he was one of the originals.
He was one of the true originals, Manny.
Have you seen the videos of him levitating the crocodiles or the alligators?
I've watched all this stuff.
I love him.
I think he's great.
He'd be in his sixties now only.
Yeah, he's probably in his early mid sixties.
He's getting up there.
Yeah.
He's focusing on his art now.
He doesn't really fuck around with wildlife.
He does, he'll be like guide people on like hunting trips and stuff like that.
Hunting hogs or hunting gators or whatever.
But he doesn't do any of the crazies.
So he doesn't swim with sharks anymore.
He's been bitten by several different species of sharks.
Yeah, I've sold that.
Yeah, it's wild.
So is there a big difference between your approach to a gator versus a croc?
Oh, look, you couldn't, and Manny would tell you this too.
You couldn't go into the Mary River or the Adelaide River in the Northern Territory
and go there waste-deep and try and levitate a saltwater crocodile
because it'll be the last thing you ever do.
Why is that?
Are they more aggressive?
Oh, I can't compare them.
Couldn't even put them in the same room.
Couldn't even put them in the same box when I'm trying to say.
Yeah, they're behaviorally different.
This animal here, the Australian saltwater crocodile,
so the Australian saltwater crocodile, is a whole different kettle of fish,
the way that he looks at the world, different to an alligator.
Oh, look, I've been in the water with alligators before.
Is the diet different?
No, I think the diet would probably be the same.
Okay.
I think, yeah, almost identical.
I just think there's just something definitely structured in the brain,
which is differently.
They just see you purely as prey and their approach is very sneaky as well.
We're talking about a predator that's evolved over tens of millions of years
and he doesn't at all see you as a threat as long as he's in his own natural environment.
If he's up on land, yeah, he'll still defend himself,
but he doesn't want anything to do with you.
You can walk along the banks of the Northern Territory
and if these guys are up on the bank, the first thing they'll do is go straight into the water.
They know because that is where, that's their world, that's their realm,
that's their hiding place, that's their advantage point.
It's where you go to the edge of the water or you go into the water,
you'll become undone, you'll become unstuck.
One of the things I teach as part of the tours is obviously crocodile awareness.
I'll take them out.
We've got some captive crocodiles that we feed and I get people to really appreciate
and respect these animals, but just teaching them the safety points.
The Northern Territory government, the Parks and Wildlife,
they do a very good job at trying to educate the public or for
travelers which are coming in.
It's called the Crocoise Program and essentially just telling people,
like, stay out of the water, essentially, be smarter around the water's edge
if you're doing fishing, if you're doing any kind of things recreationally.
The problem, look, someone gets taken, a father or a son or a daughter or whatever,
generally it's men because we're just, you know, that way inclined.
But, you know, then the animal's got to get shot and it's bad media,
it's not a good thing.
So, yeah, we try to be quite preventative with our approach and, you know,
a lot of warnings and all that kind of stuff, you know.
You got a video, Steve? Play that video.
Whoa, man.
Is this that same area?
Northern?
Nice.
It's the Finnish River Station, so that's where I operate.
And it's, like, 55,000 acres of just wild, like, wonderland.
That's fucking cool.
That's one of the most venomous snakes on earth.
And we've also got our very own ancient dinosaur.
Yucca's Wild Tours are Australia's wildest experience.
An adventure like no other.
Dude, that is wild.
That's gorgeous.
Yucca'swildtours.com.
So, I'll tell you a funny story.
So, I started having meetings with the Northern Territory Government
and this was around about the same time I started talking with parks
and wildlife and was just like,
I'm going to do the right thing from now on, right?
I'm just, you know, I'll do everything your way, the permit way and, you know,
and they're like, all right, Mr. Yucca's, you know, we're gonna trial you,
see how you're going.
And as soon as I think I've had this pivotal part in my life,
the, you know, I started connecting with NT Tourism,
Northern Territory Tourism.
And, you know, essentially they've been, you know, fantastic, you know,
helped me try to develop the tours and make it more, you know,
increase the distribution and all that kind of stuff.
But the first thing that the lady said when I sat down
is she says, if you want us to help you or get behind you,
you have to do just one thing.
I said, what's that?
She goes, Andrew, if you want us to take you serious
and you want us to promote you to an international market,
you have to put your fucking shirt on.
And it's true because cultural appropriations different around the world.
I actually, you know, I was in Zimbabwe and I was walking around my shirt off
and I had one of the locals there say, hey, where's your shirt?
Really?
Where's my fucking shirt?
I said, my shirt's in the car.
He said, go put your shirt on.
I said, why?
He goes, because this is, you're not allowed to do this.
You're not allowed to have your shirt off.
I thought everybody walked around shirtless there.
Most of the pictures are without shirts.
Only the locals are allowed to go shirtless, maybe.
Exactly, yeah.
So I put your shirt back on.
That's weird.
So, yeah, so I've had to do everything we would call it shirt now, which is fine.
Okay.
Find the video on Andrew's YouTube channel.
I think it's your number one video with you approaching a hippo.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, probably.
What were you doing?
Was that in Africa?
That was, yeah, that was in Africa.
Yep.
Oh, look, I've had some close calls with you.
The thing I want to put out there is this,
is whenever I've had a true, like a true, true, true, true close call,
cameras never rolling.
Right.
Because you're fucking, you got to get the fuck out.
Yes, exactly.
So I've had, and this was years ago, but I had one just recently
where I almost got taken out by a hippo and it was at night time.
Really?
This was on the recent Honey Badger one.
Yeah, I hit him with a torch.
Hey, yeah, he came at me.
Dude, you are a maniac.
Yeah, I ended up hitting him in the head with a torch, which I thought was a pretty
good advertisement for this torch company.
But yeah, so what happened was I was walking and his came in from the bush
and I was walking for the river and I don't know if he was directly,
well, no, he was directly going for me.
And the only thing I had in my hands as a saving grace was I had this big torch.
I fucking threw the torch at him.
It's fucking bounced off his head, but I feel like it was enough for me to just like,
kind of get away to the left hand side.
And then he didn't worry about chasing me.
I think he was just more so just trying to go to the water,
but mate, it happened fast and they can fucking move.
Oh my God.
Yeah, but I flogged him with a torch.
I heard it.
So yeah.
People get fucked up by hippos often?
Or do people die?
Yeah, 100%.
People know how to stay away or do they still get people?
The locals are pretty smart.
Because there's a good like a flight distance, I guess,
you know, that the people will have with them.
Yeah, people get chomped all the time.
If that animal gets on top of you, just like a water buffalo,
yeah, he'll make work of you.
But they don't eat meat, right?
No, they don't.
They don't.
So I stopped doing the YouTube stuff a couple of years ago.
Why?
For the reasons I was saying, it was just me with my camera.
It was so much hard work.
When you're trying to do things which are organically,
the reason why, look, when you look at the success of people
like Katie Peterson on that space, crew of people,
things are organised, things are scripted, things are, you know,
and it becomes a process which is completely computational
and algorithmic.
Yes.
And it has to be.
And you'd even know it's like when you, the ability to do a podcast
here and have next person after the other one, you know,
like a door that's always opening is there's always content coming out.
It's a lot.
It's a lot of monotonous work.
Yeah.
Yes.
If you're trying to film your natural engagement with animals,
capturing animals and all that kind of stuff,
some of these animals would take me weeks to try and catch.
You know, even look at the honey badger took me four and a half
fucking months to catching in Africa.
And one thing I really wanted to stay true to is I didn't want to do the same
animal, the same snake.
And I watched some guys say the same snake, the same snake again,
the same guys been done a thousand fucking times.
I wanted to do things, you know, all like all different animal species.
But doing these and going to these areas and doing the filming,
sometimes it'd take me, you know, on average two to three weeks to try and
find an animal, you know, or to catch it down and all that kind of stuff.
And when you start thinking about that and how that would integrate
into content for YouTube and engagement, it doesn't work.
Right.
Because there's no consistency there.
Right.
You know, and I think that was probably one of the biggest issues.
And that's when I kind of left that and fought right.
Well, I'll just do the documentaries.
These are all solo documentaries that I was doing.
These are the ones that went to Netflix.
Right.
And now it's come to a point in my career where, and I think I can say,
like Forrest has just put me up for a show on Animal Planet,
which I hope I get, you know, a hosting show.
You know, if it's something like that and there's help around me and a
production and things are paid for, then I'll be the first person there
at the airport waiting.
The problem is in my entire life.
And I don't take back one day of it, but 15 years are going out there
just by myself with a camera and the amount of expenses and everything else.
I'm barely made a dollar.
You are?
I barely made it.
I was in Australia there.
I barely made a dollar.
Like if I was to break it down over 15 years,
I've probably made a quarter of a million dollars.
But imagine if you would have been.
But think about that.
Quarter of a million dollars over 15 years.
What's that?
That's like, yeah, $16,000 a year.
You can't.
You can barely live off it.
You know what I mean?
So I think it got to a point where it's just like, I've got a skill set.
I've got this ability.
I know I can host and I've got the character.
I know I've got all the necessary formula behind me,
but now I just need something which is more formative
because to continue going like this by myself.
That's interesting, man.
That's an interesting way of thinking and doing and living your life.
Because I think most people would, if there was no cameras rolling,
they wouldn't do half the shit.
Or they wouldn't do probably any of it.
But you look at it the completely opposite way,
which is very, very unique.
And that's not just with doing crazy wildlife shit
and trekking through fucking deadly territory
and catching deadly animals.
I mean, that's with anything, right?
Even podcasting.
Like how many people would sit here and would want to?
It would be unsustainable, I guess.
It's impossible to see to flying people from all around the world
and talk to them if you're not trying to set up some sort of a machine
around it and try to develop a money-making apparatus
to make it sustain itself.
Well, I think, and what people are saying there,
look, I think I've uploaded close to 100 videos,
what people are saying is less than 0.001%
of what I was willing to show people.
Right.
There's so much that I've done.
You know what I mean?
There's so much, there's so much to it.
And I've just seen a lot of these guys that were coming up for you
in the first thing that they were thinking,
there was a brand instruction play.
All right, we've got to do the hats,
and we've got to do the backpacks,
and we've got to do the shirts,
and we've got to do this.
And everything was just, it was just like a McDonald's.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's what it was.
It was just like a marketing McDonald's thing.
And when I saw people like that person, like Katie Pearson,
that's all it was.
It was just like, how can I be a franchise brand?
And that was the force, the animal stuff is second.
How can I be that brand first?
And I think that's where being disingenuine and that disingenu...
People can sense that.
Yes, they can.
People like that never become icons like Steve Irwin,
because the core of what they're doing,
you can see the undercoat of that.
I'm sorry, I'm sorry to call it out, but for me,
I can see that.
I feel like Australians are really sensitive
to that kind of stuff too, like someone that's selling out.
Is, yeah, it's just, I wouldn't wear a backpack
or I wouldn't wear a pair of shoes that I didn't believe in.
Does that make sense?
Absolutely, 100%.
I wouldn't believe in.
I've only had free sponsors.
I've had K-Bar, right?
Because, well, then I was at work, I put them to the test.
If you don't believe me,
I can show you some stuff in the buffalos if you like.
Really?
But listen, there's only very small brands
that I would actually put my life into.
And I can relate that back to the rawness of what I've done.
I'm not going to sit here with something
and promote something that I don't believe in.
I just want, I just, it's against my core.
I just don't believe in that.
And maybe, you know, people,
a lot of people are probably watching this podcast and be like,
well, no wonder why you got no money,
because you didn't sell out.
I'd rather be broke than sell out.
That's my character.
And I think a lot of people in the industry,
it's not like that, Daniel, they'll sell out.
They'll change their fucking names.
They'll do whatever they can to make it.
They'll fake it till they make it.
That was never going to be me.
I'm sorry.
It's just, it's not who I am as a human.
It's not.
Well, that's why you're such a fucking badass, bro.
Well, I think it's just, it was just,
it's a lot of it's been true to yourself too.
Yeah, absolutely.
100%, 100%.
You know?
And yeah, look, there's got to be gives and takes.
There's been some shows that I haven't been 100% on.
And, you know, you've got to see these things
as opportunity or opening doors.
And so it's not like I've been close to that
because there's definitely been things where I've thought,
mm, you know, okay, but I think, yeah,
you've definitely got to stay true to yourself.
You have to stay true to yourself.
What do you think about, have you heard of this thing
called interspecies, this interspecies AI communication?
The first thing I think of though is
if an alien wants to come down here to Earth,
how long do you think it'd be until someone tried to fuck it?
Honestly, you know that would happen
pretty fast if it would.
Yeah, if there were enough of them,
100% you could find somebody who'd want to fuck it.
Absolutely.
Yeah, like, and you know, that'd be a disclaimer.
You know, the government would be smart
and it'd be like, do not contact, do not touch.
But really the government's just like,
please, someone just don't fuck one.
We just don't, we just don't want to create a virus.
Like, you know, it's going to wipe out the Earth.
Well, we just, we just don't want that right now.
Just like, I don't think it'd be,
we'd have to be worried about that.
I think the thing you'd have to be worried about
is the aliens wanting to fuck us.
You reckon?
I think the aliens would want to probably fuck the humans
or like find some, you know, some hot indigenous human.
Okay, I think I have heard about this.
So is this to do with the original conversation
where Dr. Puss wasn't from here?
It came from somewhere else?
Is this where this is going?
Or no?
No, I don't think so.
I think, so this is, correct me if I'm wrong.
I mean, we can read it, but I,
what I was explained to me was that
it's a new artificial intelligence
that's being developed like a language intelligence
that can decipher animal communication for us
and basically translate it into something we can understand.
Yeah, blow that up so we can read the bio of this company.
Inter-species Internet is a multidisciplinary,
disciplinary global think tank
to encourage the acceleration of inter-species communication
with 4,500 plus members, including leading sector professionals.
A primary premise of the project
is that the inter-species internet
can be used to both link non-human species
that are not collocated
and can use its computational capacity
to introduce AI and machine learning methods
to transduce signals from one species
into coherent signals for another.
So yeah, they want to basically translate animal language
into human language.
I feel like something just went through my mind.
I feel like if I was to compile a series of sentences
which had probably came off all the animals
that I've chased over the years,
a lot of those things would,
a lot of those sentences would run off in the narrative of,
why the fuck are you chasing me?
Fuck off. Who is this wanker?
Fuck.
Yeah, you're probably right.
Straight out.
That'd be not the concise thing.
But how fucked up would that be, dude,
if we could telepathically communicate with animals?
There was a dog that I seen.
Okay, so there's been a number of animals over the years
which I think have really been individualized
as having this next level of intelligence.
One was an African grey parrot called Alex.
I think that was one.
I think there was also a gorilla
that was in captivity.
Was that Amy?
May have been.
And a dog.
The most recent one was the dog where,
you know, they've got,
I think it's called a lexigram
where they have all these different buttons
that symbolize different things, like outside, food, water.
And this one was actually a really complicated lexigram
where there was almost like questions in it
that evolved around motion.
And I believe it's one of those,
is it a labradoodle?
Like the poodle across the labrado?
Yeah.
One of those ones?
Yeah, yeah.
Really intelligent.
This was the most interesting part
was the dog went up to it and it pressed it simultaneously.
It pressed the button that said,
what am I?
And then walked over and looked into the mirror
and looked at the owner.
What?
That's deep.
Wow.
That's deep.
That's deep.
Wow.
That's deep.
What am I?
That's deep.
That is very deep.
What the fuck, man?
That's interesting.
Yeah, I got to find that.
Cocoa.
Cocoa.
That's it, because there was a famous scene
with Robin Williams with Cocoa.
And I think it learned sign language
who was able to communicate.
There's an interesting study that they done years ago,
and this is actually a really scary,
I think is one of those Russian experiments,
where they put a child and a chimpanzee together
at a very, very young age.
And essentially, the experiment was to teach this chimpanzee
human knowledge and human traits
and behavior and all that kind of stuff.
I think the experiment only went on for a couple of months,
and they had to shut it down.
You know why?
Because it was actually the child
that was starting to learn the traits of the chimpanzee,
because animals have such a hard-wired behavioral system,
like in everything that they had is so hard-wired.
And it was interesting to see that it was the human brain
that had that plasticity or that adaptability,
and it was actually absorbing more information from no way.
So yeah, which I thought was fascinating,
truly fascinating.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, we are so different from apes.
I mean, it's our closest living relative species.
And we were supposedly came from apes,
and we evolved from apes,
but we're so fucking different.
It's like there's nothing.
There's such a huge gap between the most developed primate
to a human being.
It's almost like there was some sort of intervention there.
Yeah, that's like the theory that a monkey ate a mushroom,
a psychedelic mushroom, and the brain grew five times size.
And what's the name of that theory?
That's called the...
I forget the name of it right now.
We've never heard of it.
But yeah, there's all these crazy theories on how he...
Because there's nothing really close to us in the wild.
Think about every single animal that exists on earth,
and then us.
We are so fucking...
We're miles apart from every single one.
Completely.
It's funny, I'll just...
The stone-dape theory, that's what it's called.
Stone-dape theory.
I just saw that last image,
and it reminded me of Travis the Chimp.
You know that story?
No.
Whoa, man.
That's terrifying.
Who's Travis the Chimp?
Is this the one where the chimp ripped apart the little girl?
Yeah, that woman, the next-door neighbor.
Yeah, ripped her face off.
Yeah.
Oh.
And the 911 call, and ladies.
This is ties him back to that whole animal attachment,
the emotional attachment with the animal,
and all that kind of stuff.
And this lady had a very unhealthy relationship
with this chimpanzee, and lived in a house,
and da-da-da, and all that kind of stuff.
And this chimpanzee would look out the window like every day
and see the next-door neighbor,
because this lady was, for instance,
this other lady, and it just would death stare her.
You know what I mean?
And it probably waited its entire life
to be like, I'll get you one day.
Really?
You know what I mean?
Because once again, like, two chimpanzees,
and like, that time doesn't exist.
That's it, Travis the Chimp.
Is that what she looks like after she-
Did she die?
No.
She lived?
Did she- Is she still-
No, she lived.
Yeah, she lived.
Oh, wow.
She got a new face.
Travis the Chimp managed to escape from the enclosure one day,
and it essentially molded this lady to death.
A bit of hand-off, a bit of face-off.
And this lady awes the while.
I think she was, the owner was like stabbing it
with a kitchen knife whilst on the phone to 911.
Oh, wow.
And it, yeah, it's this, you know,
I think at that point in time, particularly in the U.S.,
it really raised a lot of question about the exotic animals,
or, you know, these dangerous animals,
which were being kept as literally kitchen pets.
You know, and, you know,
this kind of brings into the whole Tiger King thing now,
doesn't it?
Mm-hmm.
You know?
But, yeah, I just thought that this was,
yeah, a real tragic and bizarre-
Monkeys are terrifying.
They are.
You've seen the videos of the monkeys stealing the kids?
No.
There's like, there's videos on YouTube of like,
these little monkeys, I forget where it was,
but there is, I don't know if he is,
I think the parent like intervened the last minute,
but these monkeys like stalked this little toddler.
And like, tried to grab it and like steal it,
and they were like in a tug-
There it is right there.
Yeah, watch this.
Have I seen this?
Maybe it's also on TikTok.
Gotcha.
Look at this.
No.
He's going to use it as a form of barter.
Holy crap.
I'll give you the child back,
you give me some crackers.
Like, what the fuck, man?
I think someone was just filming that recently.
I think it was in-
The monkeys.
He's still with them.
It took him out.
In Indonesia, I think it's the macaques.
And what they'll do is they will steal a wallet
or a purse or a possession like a phone,
and they actually use it as like a form of barter,
and they'll go up to the tree and say,
well, you give me a treat, I'll give you the phone back.
So they've been able to work that out,
which I think is that's another level of intelligence,
isn't it, really?
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Well, monkeys are the one that first developed prostitution.
Really?
Yeah, I forget when the study was done or whatever,
but there was a study done where they put
like a two male primates or chimps and a female.
And how did it go?
The males were, the female would end up
fucking the male who gave it food.
Right.
I think that's how it went.
Right.
But basically they were both competing to see
who could like bring the female the food,
and the female would only sleep with the ape
that brought it food.
Right.
Wow.
Yeah, dude, they're bizarre.
So what else is there that you haven't done
that you still want to do?
Is there any crazy trek or any crazy animal
that you haven't caught yet,
or any place in the world that you haven't been
that you want to go?
It was funny.
I was just in Medellin in Columbia,
I went to the zoo there,
and as I was walking through the zoo,
you know, I had quite a wide diversity of animals
from all over the place.
And it was funny because as I was walking there,
I was like, yeah, I've caught that one.
I've caught this one.
I've caught that one.
Track this one.
I think unless it's something which is really out there,
you know, and once again, I think if a network was
to turn around, like the Congo River,
that hasn't been walked yet.
I know people have talked about it and ta-da-da.
But if I put this out now and I say to a network,
if you will pay the way for me,
I will go and walk the fucking Congo.
I'll do that tomorrow.
It's just for me, it's not, I don't know,
I don't, obviously it's a challenge.
Why the Congo?
Because it hasn't been done.
Remember?
I just, if it's been done, I don't care.
Whatever.
If something hasn't been done, I'll do it.
If someone's willing to pay the way for it, I'll do it.
Actually, my friend actually gave me a good idea.
He's like, man, you should just start like a go fund me
of like people that can't believe you,
you know, to like catch certain animals.
Because I was telling people about how I catch
the water bufflers and then straight away,
but you couldn't do a cape buffalo.
I'm like, no, but I could.
So I reckon I could actually start like a go fund me
where it'd be like, right,
if you want me to go and catch a cape buffalo,
this is how much it's going to cost for my airfares
and da-da-da and this and that.
And then I'll go and spend however long
to go and catch that animal.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
But, you know, you've got to think like,
what's the plight of all this?
You know, and I think part of that plight is,
it's about educating people, bringing awareness.
What I love now is teaching a skill set.
You know what I mean?
I think that's why I've probably evolved into conducting
the tours in the Northern Territory
and doing that kind of stuff.
But look, I'm definitely open to doing stuff
with networks and filming.
You know, that's always been like a huge passion of mine.
You know, I don't feel like you can over explore
any kind of place.
I think there's always something to do.
But like I said, like Daniel, I'm always after a challenge.
I want a hard challenge.
You know, and I said to Forest, I said,
you think it's the funding
to go do that Tasmanian Tiger thing?
I said, I'll be there.
He knows I'll be there.
That's fucking incredible.
I'll be there.
I hope it happens.
Yeah.
Well, dude, thank you, Andrew Uckels,
for doing this, man, all the way from Australia.
Well, from Medellin to here and back to Australia tomorrow.
But thanks again.
Where can people find you online and find your tours?
Right.
So, Australian Wild Tours.
But they can obviously find me on Instagram, Facebook,
just for Andrew Uckels.
And I've got a YouTube channel which is there.
And yeah.
And OnlyFans.
OnlyFans.
That's funny, man.
I know actually I know people who use OnlyFans
instead of Patreon.
Really?
Yeah.
There's this dude.
He lives in Hawaii.
Nathan Florence.
He's a professional surfer.
I've heard of Nathan.
Just why?
I think we follow each other, maybe.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
His brother's John John Florence.
On the World Tour.
He'd been like one of the biggest best surfers
in the world growing up on the North Shore.
Anyways, he used OnlyFans to publish all his content on there.
So, he said he's a Patreon.
Oh, that's pretty funny.
Pretty creative.
That's wild.
So, all right.
Thanks again, bro.
Also.
We'll link all your shit below.
Yeah.
And good night, world.
