Hey everybody, it's been 394 days since the start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
According to the European Union Justice Commissioner, 65,000 suspected war crimes have been reported
since Russia launched its invasion.
Today we'll be getting an update from Anastasia, who is living in Kharkiv, which was recently
made a lot safer thanks to the Ukrainian forces of which she is a big part in helping.
Let's do this.
Anastasia is an honoured member of Deep Drinks.
This is the third time that she has made an appearance, which is more than anyone else.
For those who don't know anything about Anna, she is Ukrainian citizen volunteering full
time in the wake of the 2022 Russian invasion.
She's been politically active since the maiden uprising of 2013 when she quit studying to
join the revolution.
She has been documenting the war along with volunteering every day since it started.
We've seen her interviewed by Destiny, Vosh, not-so-eridite, as well as friends of the
show and also conformant, Makha Grinado.
She has been interviewed by mainstream media as well, such as CNN, always advocating on
behalf of the people of Ukraine.
Anna, along with the rest of Ukrainian people, will not stop fighting back against the genocidal
actions of the Russian government.
I welcome Anastasia Pauskeva, my good friend.
How are you doing?
Hello.
Don't you dare.
Don't you dare.
Don't you dare.
Don't you dare tell me that I pronounced your name wrong because I'm trying.
I did.
Fuck.
It's fine.
Better than most, you know.
And also, you did a good job with the name.
That's good enough for me.
Your surname is a pretty fucked up surname, I must say, so I do not expect people to
say it correctly.
Yeah.
That would be too much to ask.
Yeah.
Hey, guys.
Long time, no see.
I guess.
It's been a while.
I got new camera and stuff since last time I've been here.
Yeah.
There's a lot more.
We have a lot more people who have joined the community since you've been on last, which
has been really cool.
And also, like.
Congrats.
Yay.
Thank you.
Cool.
Thank you.
So, yeah, it's been going really well, but, and, you know, it's funny, last night I was
kind of thinking, like, we have become, well, I feel like you're, you're not just a friend.
Like, I really care about you.
Like I.
Thank you.
I think about you randomly sometimes, and I'm like, I hope she's going well.
And, you know, like, I, you know, I think it's just because of the conversations, the
kind of conversations we have had.
And for me, it's definitely accelerated our friendship.
But the thing is, I don't actually know much about you outside of, like, the war.
So I'm hoping that today we can touch on the war, get an update and everything, but then
we can just, like, chat about, like, you, like, who is Arnold.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Well, life is a little bit, like, defined by war for sure.
So it makes sense that this is something you would, you know, talk about.
And yeah, so I think one of all the interviews and, like, conversations and things like that
ours was one of the most, like, friendly, I guess.
And I do, like, consider us, obviously, like, online friends would be glad to meet you sometime
for sure.
Yeah.
Also, you were, like, one of the first people I talked with, apart from Dylan and Destiny.
So yeah.
So I do, like, really cherish that first talk.
Yeah.
And since then, I guess, yeah, you had, like, quite a bit of change yourself.
You have a baby.
Yeah.
That's a change.
Yes.
Little Atlas.
Yeah.
He's a little, he's amazing.
Such a cute name, too.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Yeah.
We, we were, we were, we were, debate, we had, like, a weird name and a normal name
for both genders, because we didn't know what, like, all of Texas, and we chose the weird
name.
So I'm stoked we did.
Yeah.
Obviously.
Yeah.
You went for the weird one.
Maybe.
What's a pretty cool name?
Oh, I, as a Greek, appreciate it.
So yeah, you know, yeah, for sure.
Pretty cool name.
I do actually, I do actually, talking about your first time you came on, I always showed
this clip.
Let me just share it.
It's, it's actually.
The siren one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But it's.
Ah, yeah.
That one.
Yeah.
Oh, wait.
Let's, let's first talk about what we're drinking.
So what are we drinking?
Yep.
We're drinking peach wine.
At least I do.
I don't know.
Yeah.
You too.
Yeah.
Oh, good.
I got one with a chicken on there, but it's, it doesn't have the bunny.
Like.
It's chicken.
It's.
Minus cute.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But it's, it's not very peachy, to be honest.
Yeah.
Mine is pretty peachy.
It's like peachy, peachy.
Yeah.
And it's also like the glass is like as huge as my head basically.
Should be good.
That's the way.
Should be good.
Yeah.
So when you came on, um, I remember, you know, we, we had this.
Sorry.
Let's go off.
They, uh, in the middle of, um, like at the interview, right?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it's like, oh yeah, you get up and you're like, oh my gosh.
And you're running for the.
Kind of the hallway.
Corridor.
Yeah.
Corridor.
Yeah.
And I'm like, oh my gosh, like this is, this is.
Getting away.
Sorry.
I kind of don't overemphasize enough is look at this.
So.
Yeah.
Uh, so what was I saying?
Oh yeah.
So they killed a bunch of people.
So there you go from like running like you're like, oh, I better run for my life.
Um, and then you like sit down.
Anyway, so what we, like, like, and just, like, and just, I just can't.
I haven't been able to get over that, that, that.
You know, you.
I'm sorry.
I just said that it may seem kind of like strange to you, but when you live in like
conditions when sirens are blasting like.
Five, six times per day, you just cannot be bothered at this point.
So going to the corridor is like the best you can do for sure in my case, but sometimes
I even, I'm, I'm being bad and I don't even go to the corridor anymore.
So I just, you know, don't give a fuck, which is not good.
You should, should go and yeah, but sometimes it's just, it's just so fucking annoying,
annoying, especially when there's like no explosions and you just thinking like a line
in your bed and it's very late in the night and I have pretty severe insomnia, uh, on
a good day.
So without the war and the sirens.
So yeah.
So I just laying there like, oh, do I want to get up?
No, I really don't want to just blast me right here.
Just I just don't care at this point.
So yeah.
So sometimes it's, it's, it's, it's a, it's a bad thing to do for sure.
You should definitely try and go, uh, hide if you can.
But sometimes it's just, especially when it's so much in Harkiv because it's a city
very close to the frontline and we are getting like missile strikes from Belharat, which
is Russian city quite often.
And it's just like all day, every day, the sirens, you just cannot be bothered.
If something explodes, then I go because after that there will be like two, three more explosions
usually.
So if, if I, if I just a couple of days ago, I was like chilling with my, with my headphones
and I was cooking and I was listening to gorillas there and I was like jamming to the song,
you know, I don't really love gorillas.
And I used to listen to them a lot and I'm just jamming and stuff like that.
And then I hear the vibration.
So I don't hear the sound because the headphones and music blocks it, but I hear like this
vibration in the kitchen basically.
So the dishes, the furniture just does this.
And I'm like, oh my God, I just removed the headphones.
My sister yells something exploded in a much ruder way.
But, you know, she, she says that.
And she's like, and I'm like, oh, fuck, you know, and I go to the court.
So it's very like a banal.
I don't know like how else to describe it.
It's very like, and I was like, damn, those fucking Ruski, they interrupted my cooking
and my gorilla jamming, you know?
How annoying.
It's kind of like that at this point.
Yeah.
I had to like turn off the stove and stop like the cooking in the middle in the process,
which is like atrocious.
And I really don't appreciate that.
Oh, that's the worst.
Yeah.
I mean, I mean, probably the worst would be actually getting hit by the artillery.
Yeah, that would be the worst for sure.
Your cooking being interrupted is like second worst, I think, after being blasted by a missile.
Yeah.
I remember I had a friend who worked in, who was in the army and he was in Afghanistan,
I think.
And the first day they were on this like, they were on this hill and they were like, they
had all their armored cars around them, kind of protecting them.
And the first day it was like, they're all in like gear and like they're all like, they're
getting shot at every like five hours and they're just shooting back and then the people
run away and then they cut, you know, and then after two weeks, they're all in just like
singlets, thongs, you know, shorts.
They'll be lying down on their swag.
Yeah.
They're playing cards and one of the windows goes like blows out from above them on one
of the window or one of the vehicles.
And they go, well, they're getting closer and they just keep like you become very, very
desensitized to the idea of losing your life.
It's a very natural thing, I think, because living in a constant like terror is not possible.
You would just lose your marbles, you know.
So you just adapt and you just start to basically like your brain starts to not care, which is,
I guess, kind of weird for people who don't live like in the war zone.
But for us, I think the brain is doing its job, you know, it tries to make your life,
I guess, bearable.
So if it was like freaking out every time, you would be like, you know, it's not a way
to live.
You cannot live like that.
So you become like pretty desensitized, I say.
Although sometimes there are like situations that people just lose their shit like randomly
because they're living like on the edge, I guess you could say recently I had this situation
not with me, but with my volunteer body whose name is Fike.
He's an Azerbaijani Ukrainian and he has a little daughter and she was pretty cool this
entire time.
She has not left Harkiv with her mom and she was very chill, I guess you could say, despite
the explosions that were way worse than they are now.
But recently, like a couple weeks ago, we had a very strong attack on Harkiv.
It was 13 explosions in the city, 13 in like in a row.
Just boom, boom, boom like that.
So it was pretty scary.
And I guess like the child, she's like freaked out, I guess, too much, which is maybe her
nervous system just gave out or something.
I'm not sure because she was pretty chill with that before.
And she was just, she just was like holding to the bed and she was screaming and yelling
like, we're going to die, we're going to die.
She's four, by the way.
So yeah, so she was just screaming on stuff, we're going to die, we're going to die, we're
going to get killed.
And like Camila, his wife, she's very like, she freaked out basically after that, she
said like, I need to go with the with the kids somewhere, maybe like to where there are
no sirens, no explosions, because like at least for a couple of weeks, just to, because she
was like screaming, she's not stopped that they're going to, she thinks they're going
to die.
And yeah, it's not something you want your 44 year old to, you know, to say or to scream.
So yeah, so sometimes people do like, you know, I guess a breakdown of sorts, you would
call it.
But but overall, yeah, overall, I was when 13 explosions were like going off, it was as
much as it was in summer or in, in spring into in 2022.
So my mom also was kind of, you know, she was not screaming, but she was like sitting like
that, you know, because she was just remembering, I guess, the explosion and everything.
And yeah, so sometimes like, take it slow, I guess you could say.
Well, yeah, 100%.
And I'm, I'm, I'm kind of, I won't say impressed, because it's not like it's a, it is amazing
that you haven't been, that you're, that you're, that you're so strong and fighting, fighting
through all this and stuff.
Because like, and your mother, like, I mean, so for those who don't know, because because
it's such a large audience, I don't like to bring this up because it's obviously pretty
traumatic, but your father was killed by a Russian missile while standing on the balcony
of his Harkiv home.
Like, and your, your mother was inside and he was just going outside to see what was going
on.
And then he was essentially blown up, right?
And like, horrible, right?
Like I, I, it's traumatizing to be so close to someone, you know, having your own parents
go through that.
So, you know, it's a kind of a testament to the, the, the, the, it's kind of a testament
to the human, like species that, you know, you are so, I guess, calm and collected through
it, at least in the outward shell and your, and your mother as well.
Like you seem, you guys seem to be doing like,
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, I don't know how I'm just, yeah, it's, it's quite sad.
It's very sad.
Yeah, it is for sure.
Yeah.
People are like, I guess cockroaches.
They're very resilient and very adaptable.
So at least Ukrainians are cockroaches.
I don't want to like offend anyone, but you know, we are definitely cockroaches.
And I'm proud, proud of that too.
So, yeah.
So, you know, it's a very hard to kill a cockroach because it's like, you know, it's, it's, it's
nimbly, it's sturdy, it's very hard.
And it's also adapts to like quite a lot of shit, even radiation, apparently.
So, yeah.
I like that.
This is Ukrainians, I guess.
Yeah.
Proud.
Proud cockroaches.
It's like a slipknot song.
People equal shit.
I sometimes, I remember going through like hating my job for a while and I'd listen to that
every day on the way to work, but that's kind of different.
I know this song, yeah.
Yeah.
It's a good song.
We do, you do like, you have some great taste in music.
I do want to quickly just mention too.
So two things before we dive right into the depths of the war and what's going on in your
life.
You, people go follow Anastasia on Twitter.
And you can pay for her at this email address and it'll go directly to supporting her volunteering
efforts, which are like getting more body bags, not body bags, sorry, body armor, getting
more.
This I didn't get so far.
No body bags.
No.
Getting like body armor.
You're trying to save up.
You soon will be saving up for another quad bike, which we'll talk about in a second.
And so if you want to help, I'm supporting Anastasia.
Go follow her on Twitter and you can pay for her some donations if you feel like it.
The something I did want to quickly mention is everyone's been on to me about the charity
stream.
When we got to a thousand subscribers, I was going to run a charity stream and raise money.
Well, we're going to be doing that.
And the, you guessed it, one of the people who we're going to be raising money for is
Anna.
I'm still talking about getting some other people, but we will be running a charity stream
over the long Easter weekend.
It'll be a charity stream that goes for six hours and 80.83.
So 410 minutes in total.
So one minute for every day that the war has been going on or the invasion has been going
on.
So it'll be a stream.
We're going to be doing a lot of fun stuff.
I'm going to be bringing every guest that's been on deep drinks is welcome to come on.
And we're going to be, Anna is going to be coming on course and raising money for Anna
as well as some other people I'm still talking to at the moment.
So yeah, make sure you subscribe to this channel.
If you want to join that, that'll be really good.
Appreciate it.
By the way, thank you guys and David, obviously, but he's my body, you know, yeah.
Thanks a lot.
Yeah.
Yeah.
If you want to support like my regular volunteer stuff you can do as David said, like with
PayPal, I do quite a bit and I post quite a lot of it on Twitter, which is pretty much
my only platform at this point.
But yeah, we, we raise quite a bunch of for a lot of stuff.
So like buying equipment, buying West, buying scopes for snipers, buying West protective
helmets, medical stuff, like hemostatic dressings to stop the bleeding, which is very important.
That's something we do regularly.
Yeah.
And we actually do in fact need David is showing it.
So I'm going to say it need the quad bike again.
Unfortunately, we bought one quite a while ago, but we need one for my one of my best
volunteer friends.
He went recently to Bakhmut, which if you guys don't know is like the most hot spot has
been a hot spot for months in Ukraine.
Very rough fight in there.
Our forces are holding it, but with a great cost to their lives.
So, so he went there and he didn't take me because he said, no, it's very dangerous.
I'm like, take me.
And he was like, no, it's very dangerous.
Like, okay, okay.
So he went by himself because it is literally front lines, not just near the front lines,
but just the front lines.
And he then met the battalion at the brigade for the brigade who works there now.
And apparently what they really need is a quad bike to get to the parts that are completely
ruined, like all rubble just from artillery fire, nothing left.
And they pick up injured soldiers and dead bodies in the night or body parts.
So that's their job.
Basically they go there in the night not to get blasted and they pick up body parts or injured
soldiers who were left there.
And, and yeah, it's a gruesome job.
And, but it needs to be done because unlike Russians, we don't leave our own, you know.
So, so they do it despite risking their lives.
And it's very hard to get there on the car because it's all like rubble and ruins and
bumpy shit.
So quad bikes for that is very useful.
And I would like to try and get money to get it, which is about $6,000.
So pretty much quite a bit of a sum.
Let's say like that.
So I would appreciate obviously like any help, but yeah, we will try to accomplish that as
soon as possible because I do think people doing such a job do deserve any help.
Oh, 100%.
And, and it's, it's, it's been wild to see, you know, the volunteering efforts from the
Ukrainian, just ordinary Ukrainian people who have decided to, you know, help bring
up, bring bandages, get things to protect and to stop the put the pushing of the Russian
forces into Ukraine.
It's, it's, it's, it's, it's very amazing.
There's one, one little, not little, but there's one thing I wanted to quickly show.
And it probably won't be quick, but let's just say it'll be quick.
Hang on.
Let me just bring it up.
So this gives a good overview for the war.
And hopefully it's not like Russian propaganda, but I checked that last time it doesn't look
like it.
So the war started in, in, I won't say the war, the invasion started in the 24th of
February.
And you can see down here the invaded by Russia, which is all of Russia is invaded by Russia.
And then you've got light, light blue is reclaimed by Ukraine and then held by Russian prior
to very concrete force.
So as we move down through time, you can see the Russian forces kind of moving into like
Harkiv and, and taking parts of the country.
You can see the blue areas, the Ukrainian forces are starting to push back and they've
done an amazing job by the way.
And this is something I wanted to talk to you about is, is like, how are they, we're
now into just 2022.
And you can just say, I'll just move, move through this, but you can see how the Ukraine
is just pushing back.
Yeah, my Harkiv.
Yeah.
Harkiv is just, boom.
Yeah.
Look at that.
Boom liberated.
Yeah.
Quite great.
Super liberated.
You know, they're going to keep doing, keep pushing and keep pushing and keep pushing
until Russia has fucked all the way off, which is amazing, including the Donbas region
down the bottom here.
Yeah.
Donba.
Yeah.
Crimea as well.
Yeah.
Crimea.
Yeah.
So the question that I have is how, how has that happened?
Like Russia has a huge military, right?
Like how, I mean, and the favorite thing is the bombs.
The favorite thing is to bomb civilian buildings, but which isn't the best.
That's the only thing they're good at.
Yeah.
They're very great at it.
Yeah.
Give credit where credit is due.
Very great.
Yeah.
Greater war crimes.
Yeah.
Terrorizing.
Yeah.
Terrorizing.
Yeah.
Mass graves.
They're good at digging mass graves for civilians.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Definitely.
So, but how, but like in regards to like, how are they, this was supposed to be like,
from Putin's perspective, I'm sure he would have thought this was over in like a weekend.
It's been going on for over a year now.
Why do you think that is?
A bunch of reasons.
Well, most like countries not just Putin did a prognosis like prognosis, you know,
that we will last like three days or maybe like five if we're lucky until they take
Kiev, which, you know, have faith you all because we did not lose Kiev at all.
And we, you know, did not lose in three days, as you can all see.
And most of it is, I think three, three like main points, you could point out why is that,
which is one, I'm as Ukrainian have an urge to highlight the first is incredible, resilient,
bravery and strength of Ukrainian people and the absolute like massive resistance, massive
enlistment of soul of people, just regular people in the army on the day two, day three
of the invasion, lines like kilometers of lines of people just enlisting insane amounts
of volunteer work that support soldiers in the best way possible that people are spending
every dime they have to support our army, despite not having that much.
So to begin with, so yeah, so this is obviously our absolutely phenomenal men and women who
fight for us and who protect us and defend us now as we speak.
So yeah, so this is the effort, the will of the Ukrainian people and absolutely based
giga-chattas people say online soldiers.
Yeah, who are just absolutely amazing in every way.
So it's the one.
And second one is, of course, support of the West, obviously quite a lot.
And we got so much stuff.
We did not expect to be quite honest.
I was pretty pessimistic in March of 2022 because I thought it will be just like Crimea.
It will be just like 2014.
It will be just like Donbass.
It will be just like it was in Georgia before in Moldova.
So Russia will do its shit and nobody would do anything and continue buying that sweet, sweet gas.
And just all they would do is a slap on the wrist for thousands dead.
So yeah, hundreds of thousands to be quite honest, but that's another story.
So yeah, I thought it would be like that.
And it was completely different.
At first, people were super reluctant to give us anything because I think they expected us to be taken over in like three days.
And why would you arm people and just give those arms to Russia basically is what you will do.
I understand that quite a bit.
But then when people in the month or two saw that how effective Ukrainians were despite not having that much at that point in terms of heavy artillery, heavy weapons, nothing like that.
So yeah, so people invested quite a lot in helping us defending ourselves, which is one of the reasons.
And I do, I'm almost certain considering I listened to quite a lot of how to say it, intercepted talks of Russian soldiers between themselves.
So we intercept like their communication quite often and you can listen to it.
And they were shocked at the amount of like uber based weaponry we get.
Not that the fucking Soviet shit they do you still, but actually like high quality, modern weaponry defense systems.
And they did not expect it.
They expected just like I did to the West will do shit.
So yeah, that fucked them up.
And they did not expect our resistance.
And they did not expect West to react as they did.
So there's two reasons.
And third reason, Russia is lame is the reason.
So Russia is very lame.
And that whole thing, they're incredibly incompetent as an army, incredibly understaffed, underpaid, under...
There's like low morale issues.
There are quite a lot of issues.
The most stupid like command decisions you can possibly think of.
Russia does fight quite often in history just with the bodies, with the masses.
Like they don't care how many of their own people they kill in the process of their expansion of their stupid empire.
So, so yeah, this is just something they, a practice they used to engage in before.
But right now, I guess you can really see just how much of a paper tiger is the phrase I think, right?
They are because this is something that the world does see, I think right now that their second army is not second.
It's not even close.
Yeah, so, yeah.
So this is three factors that of course played to our, I guess you could say, being way more victorious than most people gave us any chance it's to be.
So, yeah, I think that's about it.
A couple of deep drinks, amazing patrons, Dee has just asked a question.
Wondering if the guest enjoyed the crowd in New Delhi laughing at the foreign minister Lavrov's bullshit remarks.
I felt some satisfaction.
Do you know what she's talking about?
Yeah, just regular Lavrov's bullshit.
We call him Lavrov in Ukraine.
We call him horse head because it does look a little bit like a horse.
Yeah, it's just about putting the talking hand.
You can pick any of them if you like.
They're all like insane and speak pure bullshit.
My personal favorite is Salavio.
Just because of the sheer dramatic effect he has.
When he talks, it's very theatrical.
It's like an exorcism or some shit.
He's like performing for the people.
You know when Hitler, when he gave speeches, he was very animated.
He was like spit trying everywhere.
He was waving his hands.
His entire body was involved in his speech.
So, this is something that fascists really do like, I must say.
So, they're like those theatrical performances.
So, this is something that Russians talking heads from Kremlin do participate in.
I think Salavio is the best.
Definitely my favorite.
I saw you on Nostra Conformant Neil's channel.
He had a really interesting perspective about this,
which is to dive into the religious side of things.
I watched it and I was a bit shocked.
I went and did some more research.
Fuck the Russian Orthodox Church.
Holy shit.
This guy is my new favorite guy.
Whoever this dude is.
Look at these salty little...
Like, oh god.
So, they've publicly come out.
So, this is a church of 90 million members and they've publicly come out and said,
Russian soldiers dying in Ukraine will be cleansed of sin.
So, this is very similar to when the Catholic Church,
gave blessings to pull apart the Catholic party to give the Nazis a clear run
to get elected and to also say that Hitler's birthday
should be celebrated from the pulpit every year.
Like, it's crazy.
And they also said, just as...
This is what he said.
Oh my gosh.
Oh, this is what a monk said.
Sorry.
Just as the one Lord God is the indivisible,
Holy Trinity of Father, Son and Holy Spirit.
So, Russia, Ukraine and Belarus together are Holy Rus and cannot be separated.
Yeah, that's very common in Russian propaganda.
Yeah.
So, this whole thing is like a triumvirat, it's called.
So, like, three pillars, I guess you could say,
of like true Slavic people.
I don't know what the fuck that is.
It's just Russian, you know, Russian vibe.
So, it's Belarus, it's Ukraine and it's Russia, apparently.
So, yeah.
So, we are like, apparently to them,
we're like, they are the big ones, the good ones.
The rest is like, you know, shitty version.
But basically, they compare themselves.
They say they are descendants of Kiev and Rus,
which is an ancient kingdom of Slavic people.
And I think you notice the word Kiev in it,
but yeah, because it was in Kiev.
But in modern day Ukraine, territorially, mostly.
Yeah.
So, we have same currency still.
Our, like, princes of Kiev and Rus are basically, you know,
on our money, on our, like, currency.
The heraldic symbol of Kiev and Rus is Ukrainian symbol.
So, it's like a trident, like three picks like that.
You know, a trident, a trizoop, we call it in Ukrainian trizoop,
is our symbol.
It was a symbol engraved on coins in Kiev and Rus.
So, yes, but they pretend that they are basically the descendants of,
you know, Kiev and Rus, and soul descendants.
So, just them basically.
And they are the inhibitors of it.
So, for them, it's very important to attach Ukraine to them,
to Russian Empire, Soviet Union, whatever the fuck,
to modern day Russia, all the same shit to be quite honest,
with the different flags.
But it's just, for them, it's very important to have us under them,
because we are their connection to this ancient history, basically.
So, without us, it seems like kind of a bit dumb, to be honest,
to call themselves the descendants.
So, it might sound like kind of trivial to, like, western people,
but for them, it's like very, it's a key point to them.
So, they really attach themselves to this history,
and they want it to be, want us to be part of it for that reason.
Not only that reason, obviously, but this is one of the reasons.
I think George does suck, obviously, yeah.
Send a super chat.
Thank you so much, Constellation Pegasus.
Wasn't it in Finland who embarrassed Russia by wiping their butts
before the German invasion?
Russia has militarily humiliated.
What was that about? Tell us about that.
I don't know about that.
Well, that's basically Soviet, Soviet Russia,
to be quite honest, not Russia, it was in Soviet Union times.
Well, basically, Soviet Union attacked fucking Finland.
Like, this big, this giant attacked Finland,
and annexed quite a bit, I think, 10% of the territory,
and the rest they couldn't overtake,
because Finland kicked their asses.
They defended themselves from a humongous enemy,
just humongous, as we do now, basically, Russia occurring.
So, yeah, so they managed to kick their mouth
and preserve themselves as people and as nation,
and Russia was forced to, Soviet Russia was forced to declare
pretty much sort of like, they actually posted in newspapers
that they won, but it's, you know, for the stupid people, yeah.
For the brainwashed Soviets.
Yeah, but in reality, they got their asses handed to them
by Finland, which is why Ukrainians are very fond of
Finnish people in Finland.
Yeah, because we relate to that.
Sounds like Russia literally got their ass kicked,
and it was like limping away, saying,
I'll let you win, I'll let you win.
Yeah, yeah.
It amazes me, because you see the same thing.
So, the reason I bring this up with this,
my new favourite man in the world, this guy,
is the perfect meme.
Look at him, look at his greasy little head.
The reason I bring him up is because, you know,
you see the same thing happen throughout history.
So, when the Japanese invaded China and did some of the
horrible shit they did during World War II,
they believed that they were doing, yeah, yeah,
and then King and King, and when they were,
they believed that they were working for the imperial,
you know, the imperial family, which is like the God people,
you know, like it's like, there's always this,
and they believed that they were like the superior
like Asian race, like, so there's a lot of like,
a lot of like ideas like this that permeate,
like we are the chosen ones,
or we are the, or we're religiously entitled to this,
or this is a God thing,
causes people to do some of the most horrendous shit
in the world, like, what's that old quote?
Yeah, well, you have to like elevate yourselves
above others in a way,
because this is like a fascist typical thing.
You have to be like, we are the superior, something,
like superior Asians, superior Slavic,
superior like white people, whatever the fuck, right?
So, superior, something, and after that,
you can like dehumanize others, and you can understand like,
basically attach some kind of like divinity, I guess,
to the idea that we are like divine people,
and the rest is like our like slaves,
or need to be annihilated, basically.
So, this is something that happens quite a bit,
and yeah, of course, and if the church is like,
controlled by the government, or it is like the government,
you know, then it is, it assists such things, obviously,
because it's a power tool just as, you know,
any other power tool in politics could be.
Yeah, but Russian church basically like,
oh, we bless you to rape and, you know,
kill and torture people.
Good job, guys.
Go do that, yeah.
Ah, it's ridiculous.
The same thing, I don't mean to come down hard on,
I think, you know, many nations,
like, I don't mean like, I got in trouble,
like I had, I got in a fight with someone on Twitter
about Japan, but making remarks about Japan.
I'm very well aware that Australia's done some horrible shit too.
I'm not saying Australia's perfect.
We did the same shit to the Aboriginals.
It was horrible.
You can criticize others without those comments.
Yeah, it's not like, yeah.
Yeah, so I'm just pointing out like there's a lot of,
but a lot of nations who do things like this,
but it's not, yeah, it's the criticizing your ideas,
not the whole group of people.
Well, the worst thing about it is that many people in Japan
still don't recognize it, like what they did,
the atrocities they committed.
Yeah, that's the bad part.
Yeah, the bad part, they've done it, obviously,
but that's history that's past times.
You can forgive that, you can forget that even,
but it's hard.
It's when people say to me like,
why can't you forgive Russians?
And they are like, what?
It's the middle of the fucking invasion.
What are you all about?
They did not change that much.
So we had like very heavy history with Polish people, for example, right?
We have like pretty strong conflicts with Poles,
and we have a history with Ottoman Empire, with Turks, you know,
with Tatars as well, you know,
we have quite a bit of like enemies in the past,
but that's the past.
The people who hold on to that are pretty much more
in my opinion at this point,
because we don't have this relationship now,
we like elevate it about that shit,
we evolved, if you will,
but Russia didn't, they pretty much didn't,
they still, the imperialist fucking chauvinistic cons
they used to be.
So like, what is it to forgive?
You know?
Also, how can you forgive people that don't ask for it?
They don't ask to forgive them.
They don't ask to...
Whatever.
They're mid-rape, they're literally mid-rape,
and it's like, forgive them.
They're like trusting deeper and deeper
into like a poor child.
It's like...
It's just so absurd that people even,
even like, as a Ukrainian,
it pisses me off to no end
when like Western people just try to say,
oh, don't talk bad about Russia,
don't call them orcs.
And you're like, you're literally like telling a woman
that is like, I don't know, like being raped
and bitten up and like strangled by a dude,
and she's like screaming words at him,
and you are saying, oh, don't call him names.
Don't do that, you know?
Like in the middle of it.
It's just such a weird language policing
when the Ukrainians express their rage,
their well-deserved rage,
their like experience,
they're just...
I wish I could express to people
just how hard this level of
anger and hate
is on us.
Not like, you know, how hard it is
to live with that feeling.
So sometimes it does burst
in a very aggressive manner, obviously.
But what else do you fucking expect?
It's just so strange.
Yeah.
Yeah, 100%.
So...
So we've talked a little bit about
like how the war is going,
which, you know, it's...
Sorry, the invasion, I keep saying war,
why don't I write it down as war?
It is war, you can call it war, no problem.
It is war, but I think it's important to point out
because people think it's like, oh, well,
both sides have merit, no, they don't.
It's not okay for one country to just start
invading another country like that.
Yeah, you can call it
genocide or war.
Genocide, yeah.
We've gone over this in other streams,
but governments of the world,
many governments of the world are calling it a genocide.
It's not just like us using...
Thank you.
Thankfully, nothing that's done to Ukrainians
is often called genocide, which also pisses me off.
I'm not trying to, you know,
pity me, Olympics,
but it's just so
weird that people are so
reluctant when it comes to Ukrainians
to
call things genocide.
This is something that was, like, a whole of the more,
for example, like a famine,
Soviet-made famine that killed 4 million people.
So
people, for million Ukrainians, I'm sorry,
they get way more people in Kazakhstan
as well in other countries,
but in Ukraine, 4 million people were
starved.
So
people are reluctant to call that
a genocide.
And despite the fact that there are on the books
laws, such as
Zakhon Petit Kalaskov,
which is five-width laws,
I think, in English, like widths
in the field, you know, width.
So five-width laws
is the law that if you steal five-width
pieces,
you will be shot in the head.
So they shot people who were starving
and they knew they were starving.
Soviet Russia continued
to export food to Moscow,
to Moscow,
to other parts of Russia, to sell it
to other countries as well.
And they just forcefully took
the food
and people starved to death.
And they shot people
who stole the food they themselves
grew to, you know,
to feed their families. People
strangled their children.
It was that bad. So it's just,
it's a horrible,
horrible thing. And people just
just deny us that.
They deny us like any, I don't know,
it was just a mistake. What kind of mistake
is that? It's just
when you continue, one thing
is to do miscalculations, for example,
like, okay, they're like
they're like, people who say it's a
miscalculation apparently think
Soviet Union was more retarded than
I think it was. But that's another
another thing, because just how
fucking stupid do you have to be? But
that's another question. But they continued
to kill people, to sell it
to take food away
like literally from people's
hands. So
it's just, yeah, and
like a bunch of countries accept
that it was genocide, but not all.
Quite a lot of western countries do not.
So, yeah, so it's just
something that people are very reluctant.
I heard
the most stupid thing I ever probably
heard is the thing that
I heard a guy who was like
another guy like quite a lot of people who was saying
like Ukrainians called Holodomor
this event, the famine
Holodomor because
they want to attach themselves to holocaust
so it's kind of like holo
in the beginning.
And I was like, oh my gosh
just explain
short explanation
it's Ukrainian word. It has
nothing to do with English.
It's just the word holod
means hunger
it just means hunger, it's the word
and mor means
mass death
like mass death
so it's mass death by hunger
is what it means.
It has nothing to do with the word holocaust
it doesn't, that's because
there's a different language, it exists
everything is English
so it's just, you know, it's just
it's very strange, yeah
sometimes you hear like the most ridiculous shit
also the genocide
people get triggered
because they're like, oh holocaust is the genocide
and you're like, well, yeah
like, yes, there are plenty of
genocides, not just holocaust
you know, there's like Armenian genocide
there's like, Kosovo, Albania
Serbia did a genocide
there's a bunch of fucking
genocides, like all over the place
it's not just, you know, that
which is holocaust is pretty much undeniably
probably the worst, but that's
just, you know, doesn't have to be
the only thing
so, yeah, it's very strange that people
want to somehow like tell us
that what happened to us was kind of chill
kind of cool, which it definitely wasn't
yeah, sorry that rant
no, that's great, I love
I love a drunken rant, well you say
you say it takes more than a bottle for you to get
yeah, yeah, I was going to say
I was watching you on Destiny's Dream
and you're like, I've only got one bottle
that's not going to affect me and I was like, thank you
someone else is just as
an alcoholic as well, you drink me under the table
I think, definitely
I might, yeah, I might
I'm not sure, we should test that sometimes
yeah, 100%
so I keep advocating
that Anna needs to sort of tick tock
account dancing on the burnt
down tanks of the Russians
she won't, I reckon
David has a business plan
for me, he's like very invested in
this idea of me dancing on Russian
tanks and going viral
yeah, I honestly think
because like you've got
the blue hair or the coloured hair
and just you
dancing on the tanks of Russian
like it would just, it would go viral
I think you would actually, I think it would get to Putin
Putin would get pissed off, like it would
it would be amazing, you can affect the war
from dancing on tanks
I see, I see, that's your plan
but if you don't do it
then Ukraine, when we can dance together
that would be cute, right?
I said that, I'll come to Ukraine
and we'll dance on
we'll dance on the tanks with
one of your stripper friends
oh, my stripper sniper can join us
for sure, just
if the guys probably don't know what we're talking about
basically, I recently did a
fundraiser for our friend
my like volunteer
buddy Fike, whose child I was talking about
before, he's
one of his childhood, like best friends
for many, many years
is enlisted in the army
and is a sniper now
but his previous profession
was a striptease dancer
and it is fabulous
yeah, yeah, yeah, don't show it
yeah, he's in the middle
yeah, so that's
something I guess
and yeah, yeah, pretty
pretty cool, I must say
so we are helping him out with the equipment
right now and
yeah, she should definitely join us
on tanks
but unfortunately for me
and David, this would make us look very bad
because he's very good at dance
no, I think you'd be
I think you'd be fine, I think I need
to lose a little
a fair bit of weight, I think before I do something like that
are we doing
we're doing it naked, right?
we're all doing it naked
it doesn't have to be, but
it could be more fun for sure
in underwear
I guess
probably
well, pretty much
if any is the name of the guy
who just showed you, could definitely teach us
a thing or two about dance and naked
so we should ask him
if he stopped
if he stopped becoming like
when he was having a break from being a sniper
maybe like a lunchman
he loads off filming himself dancing on
like the
it's a great plan
because it's a big like fuck you too
because Russia has thought they're going to take this in like a few days
and it's like
a couple of weeks and it's just like
we're still here and we're still kicking ass
and it's awesome
he's a great person, I really like
enjoyed talking with him and stuff
I actually supposed to give him this thing
it's like a
meteor station
it's basically something that snipers use to
to understand
like the weather conditions
so like the wind
the facts
the bullet and the way it's the trajectory
and stuff like that
so I have to give him that
is that him, yeah?
sorry, he says
can I ever hear that?
I don't know if you can hear it
he said God bless America and GGG for life
I asked him to
to be honest
about the GGG for life
the sirens
the sirens went off
let's hope no explosions
wait, you're not near a window are you?
I am, yeah
it's there
not gonna move
unless it explodes
yeah, don't worry
yeah, anyhow
if I explode on stream, I super duper apologize
I think you will get demonetized
and stuff
oh, you already demonetized, right?
don't worry, it's fine
I'm not demonetized, I'm monetized
oh yeah, so I apologize
dying on stream
should
carb your earnings for sure
you blowing up on stream
I'm not worried about being demonetized
but seriously
if the sirens are going off
good friend you are
can you move?
if you're short
it's making me know why
it's fine, don't worry
you probably can't hear it
because I'm in headphones
but it's pretty loud
yeah, no way you can hear it with the headphones
I just have this megaphone
quite close to my house
it's fucking loud
yeah
so what does that
siren mean?
what does it mean to communicate?
well, basically this is the signal
to go
that there is a potential danger
so either there is a missile attack
that's going to happen
or there is
enemy
artillery is active
or planes are going up
from the air to start shooting
shit
or maybe from the water
caliber
I think is from the water, kindralis from the air
it's type of rockets
type of missiles they use
so yeah, this just basically signals
that there is a potential danger
sometimes nothing happens
sometimes things happen in other regions
so for example
you can be chill and cool
but other people might be dying right the second
as we talk
because it might have hit for example
Zaporizhia or Dnipr
or Dnipro
or maybe they attacked Kyiv
or maybe they, well basically you know what I mean
right, so maybe attacked like any other area
so yeah
so is that what
what it is?
so is that what the
so it's not necessarily in a harkiv
it's like it could be anywhere
is it really sorry
well they generally there is a risk in harkiv
if it blasts in harkiv
so it blasts in the areas that are
potentially
in the area of the strike
so it could be like 3
obelisk, 4 obelisk, maybe 5
obelisk is like our world for the region
basically
so there would be like 5 regions, 6 regions
sometimes it's entirety of Ukraine
like all map is like lit up
just because everyone is in danger
basically
yeah, so it means
potential danger
and sometimes
explosions will be before the siren
this also tends to happen
so it does not, it's not quick enough
basically, so
harkiv is very close to Russia
to Mordor, so
you know, orcs are close
I thought you were saying
I thought you were saying like a
Russian, I thought you were saying like a
like an actual Ukrainian
I only just got that you were saying Mordor
yeah, Mordor, yeah
so it's just, they're very close
so because of that
it gets here like in seconds
it's very hard to
for example like when my father was killed
it was so fucking fast
so you know, it's just
it's like
very fast
so sometimes it just not
when you say fast, what do you mean by that
I mean when they start watching it
in Russia, it gets here like in minutes
in like 50 seconds
in a minute or something like that
so you will get a message, oh the launch and boom explosion
you know, so sometimes
you don't have time to even move
basically because it's just so fast
we're so close to them, it's like one hour
ride to Russia from here
so, yeah
so, you know, also
by the way, speaking of Mordor
you can't read it obviously
because it's, you know
English, but this is Tolkien
I'm using this as my microphone stand
that's so cool
yeah, that's so cool
it's the thing, it's pretty cute
book actually
yeah, so
this is my stand for the microphone
yeah
so it's a bit higher, you know
Destiny told me that
the microphone is supposed to be a bit higher
to your face
what's the
question
what is the power and water such food situation
it's pretty
good
hello, the person who's asking
but it's pretty good, it's way better
than it was and we have
some strikes on infrastructure
every now and then, but it's not as bad
as it was in winter
in winter it was every week
there would be attacks on infrastructure
so no water, no heat
no electricity, no cell phone connection
for days sometimes
and in Ukraine
it's pretty cold in winter
so it was not good
it was not great, I must say, but we survived
so it's all good, now it's not that cold
even if they smack us, I don't give a
that big of a fuck
and they were doing that
they were doing that primarily
as like a way to
we can do this
yeah, because it's pretty
it's pretty hard
I must say, psychologically
to be in the dark all the time
it's very hard to explain
it seems like not such a big deal
but then
it's dark all the time
so there's no light going away
with those flash lights
everywhere and it's just
it gets to you
it makes you very
depressed, I guess I could say
is the word
yeah, so also there's problems
with your cooking food
there's pretty cold without the heat
no cell phone connection
is probably the worst because
you can't phone relatives and friends
and ask them if they're okay
for example, explosions
they'll be like boom, boom
and you don't know where it is
so I'm trying to call my friends for example
and I cannot because there's no cell phone connection
so I will only find out if they're fine
in like two days or day
or 24 hours
so it's not the best for sure
but now it's way better
they don't attack infrastructure as much
so
I think the last time there was
a full on blackout was
two or three weeks maybe ago
something like that
I remember you
so a lot of people
ask me like how do you have
your hair dyed in a
morso
and it's like and one thing
I found super interesting is
like in some of the videos
you're walking
through like broken glass
and there are like people just going about their day
like
going to work and doing like they're trying to
get on with their lives like live as if they're not
in a war zone but they are in a war zone
can you talk a little bit about that
well you know you have to like do
stuff like everyday stuff
and haters
this is the moment of your
like good time for you because my hair
is very rarely needs dye
it really needs
dye so you caught me in the moment
when I finally don't have a good hair
it's your day but for the
not haters you can get
dye obviously you can get like some
products you can get stuff it's
possible the country works
postal service works so you can order
stuff it's actually more efficient
than apparently in
United States without the war
so you know it's very you can
get stuff for day or two easily
so it's not that bad
and also people
have to live lives
you know you have to do stuff
that is comforting
that is normal so for me
I mean I used to
dye my hair like
long time like since I was 15 years old
basically right so for me it's very
comforting to you know do it
because it just brings back
me to like some sense of like
normality sometimes I would do
not always but sometimes I would
like do makeup or something and I feel
just good about it you know because it just makes me
feel like everything
is fine for like a short
period of time and
yeah so you do your choice you like
regular shit because just you know
you have to live you don't you can just sit there
like war you know
it's not something you can do war
it's not like something
it's just I don't know like
people even ask that because it's just
stupid for me to just to think
how do you expect people for a year
to like do nothing to don't
enjoy life we like sometimes we like
hang out with friends we drink we like
I don't know like use symptom music I
even play my playstation sometimes
you know happens when I have free
time which is very little because
I'm a volunteer but sometimes
you know what kind of
just regular life what kind of games
you play that's the question I have
oh I used to be
like a huge fan of horror games
which Russians
I think permanently because there's
so much horror in my life that I don't want to
see it in the games as well
I used to be a huge fan of silent
games this was like
my main jam I used to I played all
of them I loved them and
Resident Evil as well is a game I like
so yeah
I was a horror stan
for sure
oh I think it
I think it lagged
it lagged for a second but it's okay
I think your like video just
froze
oh really?
is it me or is it you?
can you see me now?
maybe they attacked an infrastructure and I don't know about it
no can you
yeah I'm chilling here
can everyone else see everything going fun?
it's fine now I think it just froze for like
a second you're just like like that
oh it does that sometimes
it's an amazing service
that I pay $7 a month for
oh my gosh why does it do this
yeah so this is
something I also play RPG games quite a
bit like roleplay games
Dragon Age I really love
stuff like that
this is something I grew up on playing
so I do like it it's old stuff
but you know I have a tattoo and
stuff I have also have a
Spiro the dragon I don't know if you know the game
it's pretty old it's like a proper dragon
yeah I used to be
yeah I have a tattoo there
I used to be an indie game developer so
I talked
of having games so yeah Spiro was
up there
Nintendo games were up there I have a
YouTube channel where I that has like
17 subscribers and I have like
I just make
I like play Donkey Kong 64
and Zelda and like all those old school
games I'm trying to get through everything
and I'll play God of War like
original God of War soon to learn a bit more
to like you know immerse myself in
Greek kind of mythology
as well as like Assassin's Creed
stuff because Atlas's name
I love Assassin's Creed it's one of my
favorite games yeah
I used to play
it quite a bit when I was you know
not in the war zone
what about
playing the Elder Scrolls games
Skyrim, Oblivion
no I did not play those
the Witcher
the Witcher did play not that much
but did play a bit yeah
cool
yeah so
so people going to work you know
dying here you're like you know people trying to live
in
in the war zone
like in like they're trying to live their lives
as well as like protect their
loved ones and everything what were you
doing before the war
what was your life like what did you do
what was who was Anna like
where did you work what did you get up to
I was pretty chill
before the war
so I was
working in
a vegan shop
as a seller
and you know a consultant
so this was like my main
job I also did a part-time
job which was writing
for lazy American students essays
and courseworks
and stuff like that so
you know in psychology like philosophy
sociology
stuff like that so I would just write
a random Ukrainian girl
was writing some of the
naughty American student works
so that was my side
yeah but the main thing was
working in the shop so
it goes down a vegan
a vegan shop is that what do you guys
sell
food like vegan
food is like vegetarian
yeah
I was a vegan
for quite a long time
I think 5-7 years maybe
but because of the war I
kind of like dumped to the
vegetarian level
which I feel guilty about
but it's just something I had to do because
there was no food for quite a long time
in Harkiv so for 2
weeks there was like 0 foot
at all so no nothing
in the source and I had to like eat some
cheese and eggs and stuff like
that because
starving was not the best idea I think
so yeah so that's
what I did basically downgraded
to a vegetarian but
but yeah I
will return to veganism as soon
as I'm able to because
right now it's a bit rough as well
but what are the
reasons that you're vegan
ethical
ethics mostly here
yeah
I'm mainly vegetarian I don't have
the excuse that you have
to
not eat vegan
but I mainly eat a vegetarian diet
yeah
nice job you
hey
I think that
that's nice to hear because
I think that a lot of vegans are the
worst advocates for veganism
yeah
don't be a rude bitch
at one stage
I realised I was like vegan
and I was an atheist and I was like all I need to do
is start CrossFit and I'll be the most
total person on the planet
I do CrossFit I'm vegan
to be honest
like most
like I never met a more insufferable
vegan than a meat eater
who just cannot
get over the fact that you're a vegan
so I never bring it up
I don't talk about it that much
unless I'm asked right if a person
that shows interest in that then I will of course talk with them
it's not I'm never bring it up
but they would be like eww
you're like a
eat grass and shit
they stuff like that basically start asking
stupid questions
I'm not getting triggered
and I'm like dude
just eat your corpses in the light
why are you
doing this to me
I'm not doing anything to you
it's my choice it's my decision
why do you care
I don't care what you eat
what's wrong
in Ukraine it's not very often you meet a vegan
so you get like made fun
of pretty nasty
but that's just part of the game
I guess I don't care that much to be honest
yeah
it's just a random funny story
but my mom
recently
is like going to rent one of the rooms
where she lives so she's
she owns a house and she's going to rent one of the rooms out
and she recently had some people come around
to like check it out like from like flatmates.com
or whatever and
these are the people that she had rock up
and this is the people that she vetted into
like this is the people I came right
was like oh I'm a nudist
so like mom's thinking about him sitting on the couch
couch on the nude
and she's like okay
another guy is like 57 and he's like
oh I'm going to bring my mom along
to the inspection and mom's like
okay this is weird
and then one of the guys
actually rocked up
he came in and he was like butcher
and my mom's it's primarily
vegetarian as well
all thanks to my brother
who's got our family on this whole thing
whose birthday it is today I'm going to do
whose birthday after this but
oh cute happy birthday
his name's Neil
happy birthday Neil
have a nice time
but this
this
this butcher rocks up
and he starts telling my mom
he starts telling my mom
that
eating vegetables is bad for you
you shouldn't eat kale or salads
and he says that he eats
meat for every meal and my mom could smell
his breath in the same room
just being in the same room
he just stinks
so
it's amazing the kind of people you meet on these websites
anyway
actually kind of funny that
body
order like body aroma
is very different when you don't eat meat which is pretty fun
not many people
talk about it because I guess it's kind of cringe
to talk about
how bodies smell
but it does definitely like change a bit
so in a good way
I must say so yeah
anyhow it's just
yeah it's just
I generally tend to be like
you do you basically I don't
do in any like runs
basically if person asks me
politely then I would definitely talk about it
but
I just don't do
yeah and you know like everyone's going to love us talking
about veganism forever
yeah I know
but I do want to
it's such an annoying topic
it's just like
I'm so sick of the conversations around veganism but
I do want to talk about this clip
you sent me it's an amazing clip
right so you've blurred out everyone
which one
oh yeah that one
so I'll just play this and then you can explain
like where you where what you're going on
but this is a video
you had to blur everyone
the safety obviously
so
it's very loud
I don't know if you guys can hear it
but it's loud even in the video
so the person says
like shooting for hierarchy
so that's awesome
yeah
so where were you there
yeah I was his cheerleader
I didn't I didn't want to stand there that much
but I just
they were like you're the only girl here
cheer be a cheerleader
okay fine
so I was like basically doing
you know that yeah
I didn't have like pompoms and fortunes on the front lines
not something you can come across generally
but yeah but I needed them
that would be fun
so this was basically I cannot say the exact location
because it's not loud
but I was
basically in Harkivsk Oblast
there's like this city called Kupensk
which was occupied for a while
and then basically
we were quite close there
so it's like four kilometers away from Russian lines
basically is where we were
and it's not in the city
it's like around somewhere
quite close not gonna tell there
but quite close to Kupensk
so
basically it was the artillery brigade
that we
brought quite a lot of goods to
so we would travel there and you know bring them stuff
like clothes
warm clothing it's very cold on that video
it was like minus 15
Celsius
something like that
so we would bring them like warm clothing
food like equipment
power banks
some sources of light something like that
so yes this is very
most of the that brigade
were very young
so yeah that's you too
who is my volunteer buddy
he just goes there and they're like
see them and they're like
come run into him because they're like
basically like 19 year olds like 20 year olds
and yeah so
it's pretty rough
they got hurt
recently this brigade
artillery fire
one guy lost a leg
and one was just scrapped
with like rubble
yeah so
they're like an active
active war zone
so we come to visit them every now and then
and yeah
this was what I was doing
they was like
standing there and you know just cheerleading
shooting at Russians
in that video just it's not for fun
this it's just literally shooting
you know
online it is for fun this but you know it's also
shooting at
Russian positions at the same time
I actually
wrote like on the shell
they used in that video
DGG and I wrote
a little heart
so
they shot that shell
with the DGG and the heart
yeah you froze
for some reason I don't know why
yeah it froze for me
you froze as well
but I can still hear you so
tell everyone tell us if you can still see us
and hear us we're dealing with
my Ukrainian internet apparently
is superior to your Australian
internet
no I think it uses your
I don't think it freezes for you
because it's just showing what your camera is
sending through it's not like sending you
it's not showing you the
uploaded and downloaded transmission
but anyway
hopefully everyone let us know
if
if you
can see everything
we're okay I do want to quickly
the internet kind of gets a little bit
pulls together a little bit I just do want to
quickly shout out
a couple of things
so as we mentioned before we have a thousand
oh you're so frozen dude
it's just
hey is that better
yeah maybe reload
yourself because you just
oh yeah it works
yeah I can hear you it works I think
okay cool
so a few things and hopefully the internet
better while I show this stuff but
thousands subscribe a charity stream guys
make sure you subscribe to this channel if you like content
like this I produce videos
a lot of videos at the moment
and if you want to support this channel
you can go to the patreon and we've got a lot of cool stuff
happening over there
recently on this rough cut of a video that I'm really excited about
and you can also join
if you click the join button here you'll be able to join
deep drinks and get your comments
highlighted for like three bucks a month
that helps support the channel grow
more importantly if you do have spare money
don't give it to me
give it to David
don't listen to him
okay give it to Anastasia here
paypal
because it helps
her in her volunteering efforts which is
like she doesn't you don't like
you're not buying hair dye with this right
like you're like this is like directly
like you have all the receipts you make sure
people know what you're spending the money on
yeah the guys you just saw is
the ones who usually bring stuff to
because they are in a bad spot
and yeah so we do quite
a bit of stuff I think to you
all and mostly to be honest
to Destiny's community because
they're the ones who
did G for life
they're like providing most of the money
to me so I'm super grateful
for that obviously and to Steven as well
obviously and they're the
that's how I found you watching Destiny's Dream
but tomorrow
so tomorrow
I have deep drinks next day I have deep drinks
and two days after that I have deep drinks and two days after that I have deep drinks
again we're going nuts guys
so tomorrow
alcoholic
tomorrow I'm interviewing the author
of this book called for the dead a brief history
of Christianity that's going to be awesome
and then I saw apostasy
in the chat before she's going to be telling
her story about
her deconstruction story losing confession
so it's going to be a really awesome one so
she was a fundamentalist Christian
spoke in tongues all that and she'll be
retelling her story and then of course
Dr. Matthew Munger
who's coming on to talk about how there is no
soul or hell in the Old Testament
why most of my content is religious
as you can see in nature
but religion, philosophy and human rights and that's why we have
Ana on today so like
the stream, subscribe and give all your money to Ana
like literally don't pay
your mortgage give it all to Ana
don't do it guys
only do it if you have like
spare stuff and don't
don't just you know
don't feed your children give it all to Ana
that's what you should do
only to the evil Australian
feed your children
if you do that if you do help Ana
let her know that you come from deep drinks because
yeah that'd be
yeah guys I really appreciate any help obviously
because you know we need it
we really do need it there's like not a day
goes by without me getting calls
like we need this, we need this, we need this
and I'm like oh dude I don't have like millions
yeah it's very
isn't it true that the GTP
like of Ukraine has gone down by 30%
since the war started
can you say it again
it's like like
the Ukraine GDP
GDP
GDP oh my gosh
GBP yes
yeah it's
gun or up you say
it's gone down right like it's dropped
yeah down yeah down yeah
it's very rough for many people
because most quite a lot of people
about 50% can't work
because everything
closed you know service like
factories stuff like that
and many things
got bombed many things
are not working like half of my city
is not working like fees
bars everything and it's just
it's very rough many people
don't have jobs some that do
earn way little way
less than they used to also
the prices are 5-4-5
times higher than they used to be
so it's
rough for most people and they still
find themselves to donate
to like fundraisers and volunteer
organizations which is awesome
but it's rough for sure yeah it's pretty hard
for many people
financially
one of the guys who actually
were like in artillery that video
artillery video you showed is
it's just a story I think it's
pretty pretty sad because
he would just you know see
me and he was like he was
covered in like grime and dirt
from the artillery it's just
it's like it's like splashes
the smoke of like dark shit on
your face and everything so they're like
all blackened with this
you know dust so
he would I would like try to shake
basically like you know to give him my hand
and he would like oh no I'm so dirty
I don't want to touch you
I don't want to like make you dirty I was like
dude like make me as dirty
as you want just you know it just
doesn't care I don't care about that so
he basically like afterwards he came
to me like when I was leaving already
and they were like he was like oh can
I take a picture with you
and I was like sure of course and
I took like a picture with him
and I have it
and he was like very happy about it
and then he was like I can look at it right
and I was like of course do
do whatever you want just look at it
and he was like he was like
he was acting like a kid you know
and I asked him like how old are you
and he was like oh I just turned 19
and I was like
you know I just wanted to
to kill some Russians at this moment
so it's just why
just why why why
you know why is this kid has to be
there has to be
has to be on the front lines
has to be a soldier just why
you know it's just so horrible
because well that's actually
a great question why like why
what is the
what is the reason that Putin is saying
that they're doing this special operation
and why do you think
the actual reason is
it's pretty simple you know
just invasion expansion of the empire
and hate pure hate
towards everything Ukrainian
and yeah
it's a war of annihilation is what it is
they want us gun as country
they want us our language gun
they want our music gun they want our everything
we have gun and
that's just pure hate
and
yeah it's ambitions
like imperial ambitions
and hate
just hate
so what's the reason that
what's the actual reason
that
Putin is giving for this
well basically it's like couple things
but mostly it's like
denazification of Ukraine
denazification apparently
you know a bunch of Nazis in the country
just roaming around
and he goes
democratically elected government
which is something Russians know nothing about
democratically elected
our government Zelensky and president Zelensky
he calls that a regime
and he says
and he basically says that there's like a Nazi
sorry
fuck siren again
a second
I just want to see
if I'm about to explode or not
oh god
yeah don't worry it's fine
not a big deal
no I think you'll be fine it's not us
so
someone else yes
so yeah so basically
this is like an awkward moment
when you are like kind of happy it's not you
but then you cannot be really happy because it's someone else
well anyhow just
the thing is that
he calls this like this denazification
is something that
Russians used for a bit
so for example like in
a regional population of Crimea
was Tatare
and they were also
genocided basically
deported by Stalin
because he said they're all
all Nazis so it's something
that they're regularly used to basically
genocide people not new
and
anyhow the thing is that and also
NATO so he blames like
West NATO expansion
whatever the fuck so
countries join NATO primarily because
they're afraid of Russia so this is very funny
as a reason
and of course NATO already
had borders with Russia
there were already countries that were bordering
it's not like Ukraine would be the first border
with NATO Russia has so it's
absolutely fully absurd
nobody was going to attack them obviously
and they just used
those two reasons mainly
to explain their
their invasion
also supposedly the protection
I cringe even saying that
supposedly the protection of
Russian-speaking Ukrainians
which is
infuriating to say the rest
because I am that Russian-speaking Ukrainian
I speak Russian mostly in my life
so
they came the people they genocide
the people they kill rape, torture
slaughter in mass
people whose relatives friends loved once
they kill people who
cities their level are us
Russian-speaking Ukrainians
are oppressed in the south
so they claim
that they protect us from
Nazis
from our own country
but nobody hurt us
and nobody oppressed us
so we are Ukraine
we are Ukrainians even though we speak Russian
because we were crucified
not our choice by the way
Russian Empire
was prohibited
and oppressed
and yeah so this is something
we talked about before with you
I told you the story like about my teacher
and stuff like that I think at the last time
of Miss Fogg
so yeah so this is very
very insulting
to hear sometimes
I would hear like westerners talk about it as well
they would be like oh they are Russian-speakers
like Russian-speakers in Ukraine
like they are Russians
no no no we are Ukrainians that have been crucified
by force
they use it as an excuse
as we apparently want to be part of Russia
which we don't
which we never did
so yeah so we voted
in 1991
for independence
and eastern regions of Ukraine voted
above 80 percent
so 86, 89 percent
90 percent wanted
independence from Soviet Union
and Russia
so this is the same now
and yeah
I find it quite insulting
especially the fact that I am literally
a Russian-speaking Ukrainian
that lives in the very far east of the country
so yeah
yeah
pretty hard to deal with that sometimes
but I understand that some people just
don't know and they need to be like
told, educated I guess you could say
but some people are malicious with that obviously
because they
just spread Russian propaganda
in their lives
knowingly
so there's that
also it's kind of funny how Russia protects
their own by annihilating them
they liberate us
people always, I saw a bunch of videos
of Ukrainians who have been talking
with Russian soldiers, Russian occupiers
invaders and they would be like
why are you here, what are you doing here
and they were like oh we came to liberate you
and people would be like from what
from our houses, from our lives
you came to liberate us from life
is what you came to do
and they're like just
standing there
so they actually think that
that's wild, they actually think that they
some do, some do
most of them know to be quite honest
just some do, some very young ones
maybe in the Russian army
also the ones that are brainwashed
sometimes think so, but it's pretty
clear, it becomes pretty clear
that nobody terrorized anyone here
and everyone was just doing just fine
and I was speaking Russian
day to day, never
been oppressed in my entire life
so you know it's just
we
nobody prohibited us speaking Russian
so yeah
with them it's important
to understand that for them Ukrainian identity
Ukrainian language, Ukrainian flag
Ukrainian music, whatever it is
is already for them
it's already a crime
because they want to assimilate
they want to observe other people
so for them
Ukrainian identity is Nazism
so someone having their Ukrainian flag
is already a Nazi to Russians
so that's how they
perceive it
which is, we've gone over this like
your last two episodes
but there's no
there's a myth
that Ukraine is full of Nazis
one of our patrons said
Sylvia said
sweet Anna, I'm looking forward to hear the end of this war
it pleases me that it hasn't crushed you
you're a beautiful soul
thank you, that's very nice
I appreciate it
and Constellation Pegasus
gave a super chat, thank you so much
Constellation Pegasus, is Ukraine still considered
the bread basket of the Soviet Union?
yeah, it was
most of the food was produced in Ukraine
and
we were called
the wheat
the bread, the wheat of the Soviet Union
of Russian Empire as well
because most of Ukraine
is fields
also the earth is very specific
in Ukraine the soil
is called Chernozium
which is black earth
to translate it
and it is a very specific type of soil
yeah, it is very fertile
so there's like a saying
you drop like a seed and it grows
because it's so fertile
so it was one of the reasons that empires really wanted us
back in the feudal times
because the soil was a currency
it was something that was used
to enrich people
and yeah, so
we have been growing stuff
and this is why it's so atrocious about Holodomor
because we were the ones feeding people
while we were starving
you know
yeah, that's true
and still remains true
to this day I guess
so, Doenom had said
was that a shell impact? No, Ana just sneezed
I thought that was pretty funny
um, sorry
I tried to sneeze that way
yeah, that's fine
I just sneezed
I thought it was fine, I just thought
his comment was funny
yeah, it's funny, thank you do
lady, I don't know
look at these beard
I guess
how do you identify Doenom had
I didn't saw the person
I didn't
do you want to ask?
look at this beard
it's a long beard
my beard dude, yeah
my beard dude
so you said to me
I can give you some crazy
I can tell you some crazy stuff
what happened
since this happened since the last talk
is there anything else that you
any crazy stuff that you can tell me about
a bunch of crazy stuff happened
I bought a generator
incredibly expensive for $12,000
thanks to GGG
mostly
to a very
interesting person who is like a secret
hacker, basically like a secret agent
he works in defensive
services of Ukraine
so that was pretty cool
some stuff that
also happened was that
this was like this crazy attack
like I told you about 13 explosions
in the city and one of them
were extremely close to my friend
and he was like filming it from
his window basically
he was like look shit is exploding
and I was like go the fuck away from the window
and this was like the conversation
it's a regular life
one of the like crazy stories
I guess you could say
my neighbor like on the floor
below me
she had to get
a surgery
on her foot
there was like some
I don't know honestly how to say it in English
but there was basically like a problem with her
like vines and everything
it has to be like
well basically there's a pretty serious operation
like a lot of like deep cuts and stuff like that
so when she was doing this operation
there was an outage, a blackout
in the hospital and they were operating in the dark
with like
flashlights on their like hats
trying to do this
it's such a
story you know and then she
then after the operation
she walked by home
for two hours by foot
because metro station did not work
underground did not work
and you could not call a taxi
because cell phone connection was not working
nothing was working so this pure
lady was working
was working after the operation on her leg
with like immense
pain
home by foot is just something
you know regular people just deal with
because this is just how it is
so people like performed
operation surgeries on
like heart surgery, brain surgery
like literally with no light
with no electricity
it's pretty rough sometimes
for people obviously
my friend got stuck actually
in the elevator when there was a blackout
for like almost 20 hours
not fun
that's horrible, did they have to
like go to the toilet in there
because that would be the worst part I think
is like being stuck there
he was like you know
holding it in that's put it like that
it was pretty rough and you have to like
also understand that there was zero light there
at all so no internet connection
cell phone died at the process of course
so it was like a complete darkness
in the elevator for like many many hours
before people would have noticed
terrifying
and then thinking like what if someone doesn't notice me
for days like that
he was pretty chill
he's Ukrainian so
exactly
he was like a bummer
another
patron supporter
all the guys from patreon are over here
thanks guys for checking out the stream
thank you for updating us on the war
it's so much more real when someone directly affects
affected by this gives a testimony
thank you skeptics and scoundrels
great
channel by the way, I'm going on skeptics and scoundrels soon
you guys should go subscribe
it's a great channel
that's cool, thank you
yeah so that's like some of
some of the like weird shit
that just comes to mind
well to be clear all of my life is quite a bit of a weird shit
as it is
so like
so like do you
like like
what's it like in regards to
like
are you dating anyone
or like can you
even think about something like that at this stage
or is it like
you just focus on the war
well the person
I used to be with
and we have like a very
strange relationship
let's put it like that
he's in front lines now
so he is a soldier and I list it
and I talk with him sometimes
and we kind of had
sort of like a breakup but not really
it's kind of like complicated
so this is something that I do
still like quite caring for him
quite a bit so I talk with him obviously
and but other than that
it's not really like the time
not really to find something
not to say that many people do
find like love and weird shit
or get married like a bit of like exposure
it's not to say that this doesn't
happen but to me like most of my energy
and work comes to volunteer
work and also to I guess
being a spokesperson at this point
you could say like for Ukraine and stuff like that
so who can this journalist
translating stuff right at this
at the moment I am working on
a translation doing subtitles
for Dylan Burns
hello Dylan Burns in Ukraine right now
we've been talking
we've been talking on Discord
we're trying to get him on the channel so
yeah that would be great
for sure I hope to meet
him quite soon because he's in Ukraine
and he will come to Harkiv at some point I guess
and yeah so
do quite a bit of like stuff
and no time for
I guess
they did stuff
not much
I remember you mentioning
I think briefly
I'm not sure if it's on-stream or off-stream but you mentioned
like LGBT rights in Ukraine
like what is it like there for members of the LGBT community
like is it still
quite conservative
or are you guys desperate for that
Western degeneracy
which is your terminology
not mine by the way
yeah so
terminology to be honest
it's not mine that's what they call
Western degeneracy I just joke about it
because it's stupid that they call it that way
but you know just something part of their propaganda
but well of course
like comparatively to like Western countries
that we are like quite traditional
and LGBT stuff is not as
but you know LGBT rights
is not as good as they are
obviously in the Western Europe
and in the United States
Australia as well obviously
it's not as good
anywhere near as good
but it is improving and has been improving
since Maidan Revolution
2014
and I am happy to say that
last
how do you say it rainbow parade
pride
yeah so
last Friday I was in
I did not get beaten up for the first time
there was like nobody trying to
there were people trying to beat us up
there were protesters but they were defended
by the police the protesters
the pride itself you know
so
that's good
that's definitely an improvement
getting beaten up is pretty based in my opinion
but yeah of course
also I must say that this war
it's kind of like
I don't know how to even say it
but it's like accelerates the process
of us getting based in terms of LGBT
because it's hard to
explain I guess
but
the best way to put it would be like
Russia is very concentrated on
anti-LGBT stuff so it's part of
like state propaganda right
so western degeneracy is
something they generally call LGBT
people like degenerate and stuff like that
which is you know it is what it is I guess
but they use
they are very homophobic and the homophobia
is like in part of their
like state propaganda
by West propaganda
so
for now us Ukrainians
we are like anti-Russian in every regard
so sometimes you
talk to people who are previously very homophobic
friends of mine actually
and they would say
something homophobic right
and I was like oh you know what
you sound kind of like a Russian
and they were like oh no
no way not me
I'm not
you know you talk about it like a Russian would
you know and they were like oh f**k no
and basically what I mean is
people are so anti-Russian
they don't want to be associated with anything
Russian in Ukraine
so it's good for LGBT people
because Russia is so homophobic
and for them to
people like don't want to be
associated with that so they move away
from that quite intense homophobia
very quickly because they just
see it as part of this whole Russian
way they don't want to be part of
also people many people want to be part of
European Union and that kind of
requires you to be
more tolerant I guess
to LGBT people which is also
something that most people also have
a crazy story that a little
short story that
someone I kind of know
is he's enlisted
he's a gay man and he enlisted
in the army and he's a medic
so he
basically saved lives
of his brigade
of his battalion comrades many times
and then he came out
which in the
military is kind of like the
atmosphere is very like
you should say like masculine alpha
you know the drill like military right
so this would be the place you would expect
quite a lot of black
backlash to his like coming out
but they were very accepting of him
and quite nice about it
people in his battalion which is something
he did not expect but when we talked
he said that
they told me that
you sued my guts like back
inside me I don't give a
shit who you date or who you
have sex with or whatever the fuck
so you know I guess you could say war makes people
more tolerant in Ukraine at least
yeah that's good
I have a very important
question for you and I really hope
that
someone creates some AI or fan art
and send it to
our twitter for this okay
I'm gonna ask you
what do you think
do you think if Putin was gay he'd be a top
or a bottom
I think
definitely a bottom
you reckon he's a bottom
yeah I think he has that energy you know
do you reckon he's a power bottom though
like he controls the relationship
yeah power bottom
that one could be
I could see him like being
yeah for sure
well I will make a joke
right now
so my sister and I
we invented this storm
so basically Russians
cannot stop talking about gay people
and anal sex so this is something
they're obsessed with so we would
generally call it the anal problem
anal fixation
yeah so this is something
we would generally say
to people
when they're like what's
wrong with Russian and that is how this whole
talk about bomb sex
and we'll just have anal fixation
you know
so if you do make some if anyone makes
some fan art and it can be not safe for
work just make sure you tweet it to me
we're gonna use the hashtag
hashtag Putin is a power bottom
bottom
and then also I want to find out
what's this guy is this guy
is he a
you reckon he's a power bottom
or is he a top or a bottom
well I
don't know about Kirill I think he's kind of
like
if he was gay
oh he's asexual
he's gay but asexual
I think he's kind of sexless
or maybe he likes to
indulge in
children
little boys who knows
so gay exactly
someone says he's an insult
yeah oh yeah I don't know
sure I don't know
Kirill is a piece of work for sure
yeah
well Putin is a power bottom
send your fan art in we'd love to see it
well I'll speak on behalf of myself anyway
I'd love to see it so
thank you again for the super chat
how many Jehovah's Witnesses in Ukraine
and have you ever seen a kingdom whole
I don't know
how many of them are to be honest
I saw I think
some they came knocking on the door
as they usually do
but
I don't think it's like very huge
I might be wrong by the way I'm not sure
but yeah
some people would come
some people would come
knocking on doors to Jehovah
and they would be like
oh do you want to see the light
and shit like that you know
and I was like no I don't want to
sorry
we just closed the door
Jehovah's Witnesses have the best
art of any religion I think
they've got
it's just weird
and
Jesus on the stake
because he doesn't just die on the cross
I remember
meeting everyone in heaven again
everything's good
it's wild
yeah
they are treated
kind of like a sect
in the cult
I guess you could say in Ukraine
so most people think they are a bit
cuckoo
no offense to anyone
just how it is
no
I
I don't think it's offensive at all
I don't think any Jehovah's Witnesses
watching this stream to be honest
I've asked a bunch on
I've asked a bunch on
I don't think they're allowed to
I really don't think they're allowed to
I remember
like one time
there was like
maybe Jehovah
or maybe some other like type of sect
so basically I opened the door
and I was like having
my head was shaped
like fully
and I was
really like those very huge earrings
and shaved head and I was wearing
very little
so my tattoos were like I have quite a lot
were like on display
and I opened the door
and she was like
it was very funny
she didn't want to talk with me
that much after that
but she didn't want
lady and she was like
she basically ended up saying
I will go to hell anyhow
oh really
I was like oh okay well
I was like if there is
if you are not there
then it's a good place
yeah exactly
I don't want to be where
I don't want to be where the Ted Bundy is
and where everyone else
is
I remember
you were sending these stripper videos
of your friend and then you were like
I accidentally might have said
you nearly sent it to
like an elderly person
who prays for you
yesterday I think it was
or something
we were talking with David
and I was like sending him stuff
and I sent him some videos
of that stripper
Sniper
that are much more risqu
than the ones I posted
this was basically him
with a dog mask like
getting whipped by a girl
so it would be the same shit
so I sent
there is a messenger
there is like sent to a person
when you send stuff
and there is like a list of people you can send it to
so I basically just almost pressed
the older person
he is like in his 60s I think
he has sent me a couple of times
after I appeared on CNN
and he is like I am praying for you
may Jesus protect you
I am praying for you
which is nice
of him
I basically
nearly sent
that person instead of David
I nearly sent him
my sniper stripper friend
being whipped in a dog suit
it could have been a disaster
but we dodged that bullet
thankfully
so talking about going on CNN
you have been on CNN
interviewed by
I forgot his name
so you have been on CNN
multiple times
which is really cool
5 I think
wow that is so cool
one of the things that I
find super interesting
is
I get so much
shit online on twitter
for having a Ukrainian flag in my bio
I will be talking about something completely irrelevant
and then someone will say
classic Ukrainian flag
are you kidding me dog
and I just reply to them
oh too much fox news
and then they just stop replying
it is amazing
what fox news is doing to a generation
of people
what about fox news
when I appeared on CNN
a couple of times
I got a lot of messages on facebook
from boomers
from all the people messaging me
and one of the guys
was a Trump supporter
from the United States
and he was like why do you go on those
communist CNN shows
and I was like
it is not communist
whatever you are smoking
it is not communist
why do you go on those communist
shows you should go on fox news
and I was like do you even know
what they say about my country
they are both I think
I don't think
I don't watch either
I don't watch any news at all
but I know CNN
has its own issues
for sure but fox news
especially the opinion pieces with
who is that like
yes just
talk
what is his name
oh god
he is like his face
he pretends to be confused
but he is not
I fucking hate it
he is like what are you
I am confused
it makes me want to
pet a wall
I get so angry
it is funny that this Trump supporter
he himself did not know
what his side is talking about
so this is very funny
and he was like go talk
with Taka Carlson
what will I talk with him about
me being a hunter biden hooker
or something
I don't know if you know this story
basically Ukraine, hunter biden
whatever the fuck scandal
Ukrainian prostitutes
basically
was it a Ukrainian prostitute
prostitute
also the money they were like
involved with Ukraine basically in a way
which far right people
and conservatives make a huge deal
out of some reason
yeah it is just
very strange
is prostitution and
pornography legal
to create and consume
is that legal in Ukraine
or is it
prostitution definitely not
but porn I think is
but not quite sure
consumption is for sure but
creating they don't even know
to be quite honest but I think it is
might be wrong but prostitution is legal
definitely 100%
yeah
it's just such a
such a thing
because basically there's like a fetish
for Slavic women
and specifically for Ukrainian, Russian
whatever the fuck right so it's very similar
to Asian like fetishization
fetish stuff that many people have
in the West so
sometimes I would when I was quite
younger than I am now I would go
to like countries
as a tourist and when people learned I was
Ukrainian they would assume I'm a prostitute
which is very
yeah which is very sad
because when there was like the
settlement of Soviet Union
many Russian and
mostly Russian but also Ukrainian
Belarus women would go to
do sex work abroad
and
stereotype I guess
was born kind of
the stereotype of if you're like a Russian
sounding
name or you speak Russian
or something then you are a prostitute
which is no longer a thing
that much but
back in the day it was so
I was
I think I was in Turkey
and when people would find out they would
try to give me money
so weird
yeah I was like
yeah no but they would like do it
basically so it's just
it's a stereotype but also like very much
I would say it's like a fetish I guess
you could say for like some Slavic
Slavic waifu
you know
the anime meme yeah so this is
just something like people think
people like andrutate
if you know who he is
they would also like
yeah they would also like
make this
they would make this stereotype
true
I mean like about
Romanian, Ukrainian, Moldova
you know
Eastern European people
like me right so they would make those
stereotypes about us I guess
that were like submissive
women like traditional women
or something like that because I guess
they're like a little bit
more traditional maybe
than the western people
but it's just
he just furthers this already
existing stereotype which I personally
really don't like
and yeah
yeah I think
potential sex traffic and shit
yeah well that's what I was going to say
there's a huge conversation
to be had around
and I'm definitely considerate
because I've been
a viewer of adult cinema
in my time once or twice
that's fine yeah
it makes me you know
thank you for your permission
no it's
it makes me
I think there needs to be a conversation
around consent around
because a lot of the
you get really like poor nations
like Romania
you know girls get
like flown in and they've got an opportunity
thousands of dollars
it's a huge problem
sex trafficking is
quite a lot of sex
traffic victims from eastern Europe
which is
a thing it truly is a thing
and the best thing that Andrew still in jail
Tate thing has taught us
is that sex trafficking
has taught the general population is sex trafficking
isn't just like grabbing
someone putting him in a
bag
and then throwing him in a van and taking him away
there's different levels
of sex trafficking and the same way that
rape isn't always like
holding someone down and penetrating them
it can be like different forms of
sexual abuse and stuff
so
my friend for example
my friend was actually trafficked
sort of like that
like Andrew Tate was doing
so
she was
from Donbass
and when the war
broke there in 2004
are you okay?
I just like snorted
oh no
poor David
sorry
it's just mine is
unbelievably peachy by the way
mine's not peachy at all
mine's like very dry
that's bad
it's super tasty
I wasn't laughing
he was saying I was laughing at your
I'm not laughing I want to hear the story
I did not think
you were laughing at my friend in sex trafficking
it's so good
so what happened to your friend?
so basically
what happened is she was
I met her in the university
and she was
from Donbass
most of my friends are by accident I guess
so she basically
Russia invaded
in 2014
so back in the day
after revolution
and she escaped
and she decided to stay in Harkiv
because her town was occupied
by Russia
and she had very
I would say
quite a lot of problems
in terms of escaping
and no money
a couple of her sisters were
trapped there in Donbass
could not escape
her father was actually a
Russian sympathizer
he just enlisted in Russian army
so she hated his gun
he was like an alcoholic
but
most likely
he watched Russian news
but anyhow
so basically it was a pretty horrific time
for her so she then
decided to stay in Harkiv
but she had some pretty
strong financial issues
because a couple of her sisters
she managed to get out of there
and she they were young
very young so she supported them
and her mom
and herself and she didn't have money
so
eventually she decided to
basically be like sort of like an escort
because just the
circumstances you know
she then was
basically invited
to Turkey
to be like kind of like
not doing sex work exactly
but being like
basically like rich dudes
hanging out in like restaurants
and she's like there you know
just entertaining them basically
she was promised
but ended up being way more than that
ended up being sex work
so she got stuck there for some time
and was
quite abused
and then she managed to escape back to Ukraine
which was not
good but basically this person
who gave her this job
they used like people like that
like Ukrainian women who are very desperate
who escaped war zones
and stuff like that
to just dilute them
and use them
to get money and stuff like that
so yeah so this is pretty common
unfortunately
and it's not something to mention too
I don't know exactly about that situation
but it's not necessarily that they
they like get them in a room and say
okay now you're here you have to perform these actions
or you're not allowed to leave it's like
well you know how you're gonna get back
we haven't bought your plane ticket and
you need to earn money
to be able to pay for it and
what are you gonna do?
it's essentially taking away all other options
like taking away options so it's like
they could essentially like
go through a tremendous amount of time in their life
or they could just have sex quickly
you know it's disgusting
there's a lot of coercion
I think coercion is the word because it's just
first of all she wanted to leave
but she couldn't afford the ticket
I know it's something many people
just don't understand
but we're poor you know
so Ukraine generally
so you couldn't afford a ticket
and they say oh you have to pay us back
and they would like
yeah yeah
so there was also like this element of her
she was like they were like trying to
oh you could earn money
you could earn money like that and you can
support your sisters and your mother
so they like would you know exploit in her situation
sometimes and she was like well all I want
is for them to you know to have food
to have like clothing and to have that
and if I have to do this to support them
then I guess I would
and yeah so this is just
they'll get paid like
you know five hundred to a thousand dollars
or whatever and
but you have to understand that this is a lot
for Ukrainians so that's a ton of money
but then they'll make hundreds
of thousands of dollars of those clips
so yeah there needs to be
I advocate like we had
Nicole Mitchell on
the podcast
recently she was a
pastor turned porn star
and which is like a wild
economy yeah
it's just you don't normally see it going that way
but the
she says she returned
home to a sexuality and I think
that like from church
and I think that there
isn't a healthy way to
create and engage with
pornography and I think that
the whole process should be
should be pleasurable
for everyone involved people should be
able to express themselves
do the work
like it's work
and then
but where the problem is there needs to be a conversation
around consent
around
the utilization of like poorer
people in poorer countries
not just women men as well but mainly
so it's like
yeah so like there needs to be a conversation and there's
something I've been thinking a lot about and it's probably
something I will have more people on
in the in the new future to talk about that because it's
it's definitely something that I've
considered about the morality
of consuming
certain types of pornography and things like that
I'm more like
I guess you could say progressive than
your average Ukrainian
they give it away but you know
it's just I am not
like anti porn is what I mean so
I don't have like any like I don't think it's
like a stigma or something like that
but there is issues with that
obviously and especially it concerns
like countries who are like very poor
and
people tend to exploit like and rotate
that exploit women
from very like poor countries
so it's pretty
pretty big issue and interesting to talk about for sure
doesn't have to be awful obviously
for example I had a friend
who was a Ukrainian
Romanian he was half Romanian
half Ukrainian and he went
to Czech Republic
for a porn
and he's very happy
about it he lives in Prague
and everything is lit
he's very he's very stunning
like beautiful person so
they like basically invited him
back in the day and he was
talking to me he's a friend of mine and
he was like should I go like should I
I was like it's a legit company
there's like a top notch
gay porn in Czech Republic I must say
yeah well Czech Republic
produces like the most porn out of like
anywhere I think it's like
they do that thing I like
Czech Republic it's my favorite place
to be Prague is my favorite city
Prague is a great city
but anyhow
point is that he went there
to work there and he is
I chatted with him quite a bit and he's
very happy like with his experience and everything
is great and
he's like living the life you know
do you say he's doing gay porn
yeah yeah yeah yeah
don't ask me why I'm such a porn historian
by the way I just feel like I know all these statistics
this is the clip of
Nicole watching her old preaching videos
porn historian
cute but this is
Nicole she's the
pasta-turned porn star and
I see the one you told me about yeah
yeah yeah
I think the company
he worked with is Balami I think
or Balami something like that Balami I think
it's a very like prominent
company in
Czech Republic I think that does
gay porn like very high budget
shit as well
if anyone uses some of their
scenes to create the
AI art of Putin as a power
bottom make sure you let us
know in there
yeah my friend
if anyone actually does that I'm gonna laugh
it's gonna be like my screensaver
on my phone like it'll be the funniest thing
ever seen
that person is a friend of mine
he's been there for quite a
while also but he's like
he actually considered returning
to Ukraine to enlist basically
but
ended up not like doing it
which I think is kind of good
because he's not a war person
not like anyone is a war person
obviously but you know it's just definitely
not his jam let's put it like that so
yeah so anyhow it's just
it's just
sometimes it's fine I mean but
there are things like what
my friend experienced which was
abuse, coercion
and basically
very shitty situation she could not get away
from so yeah so
there's also that side of the
sex work and sex
and porn industry as well so
both should be I guess considered
yeah for sure
and there needs to be like a conversation
around it
I want to just as we kind
of wrap up this conversation
not on porn
I hope
we can talk about porn as long as
you want I don't care but
I've got some
where are you in the bottle
my mind is almost down
I'm like halfway through to be
honest look look it's done
it's done
look I'll be honest
I'm not
keeping up but one
you're not keeping up
this isn't the nicest one
but also to be real
I'm getting quite sick of being drunk in the mornings
tomorrow morning I'm drinking
straight tequila and worm salts
with the
Dr Kyle Smith
with
I'm just so
I'm getting sick of being drunk all the time
I will tell you a little bit
of an insight in for basically
a message like David sometimes
and when I messaged him
and he's like oh I'm drunk
and I'm like so as per usual
so he's like basically
no
that is a
dishonest framing
what actually happens is
no what actually happens
is I message you when I've been drinking
and I think what happens is
because my favorite thing to do is to drink
alone and play video games and listen to
like destiny or something
that's what I like
listen to something and I'm just playing video games and drinking
and then but usually what happens
is I'll get really happy or really emotional
like not like not really emotional
actually I'll get a little bit emotional
and sometimes like I said I care about you a lot
your friend and I think about you
I hope I wonder how Anna's doing
because you know it's my time to like
and then I'll like go on your Twitter and I'll be like oh
shit you're doing some cool stuff and then I'll message you
but it's usually when I've been drinking
so that's like yeah that's like
hey I'm not an alcoholic
excuses
but um but
so you've got all these photos
that's that's was me
with the with the
gratitude list I received from the
from the
can you show that picture
it's like Pojaka means like gratitude list
in Ukrainian so
oh yeah so you can't read it
because it's in Kerala like obviously
nothing in Latin language
Latin letters but it's a gratitude
list I got from the
from the scout battalion
and the commander of the scout battalion
because I got them a bunch of stuff
like scopes and stuff like that
so yeah so it was very
sweet of them to make a gratitude
a proper gratitude list for me
it says like basically that
we appreciate like Anastasia
and her work and we feel like she's
on the front lines with us which is pretty cute
uh that's yeah that is awesome
someone someone said a very
entertaining comment when you finish the bottles the first
to cram in the asshole gets a prayer from Jesus
well thank you Johnty I have
no idea what's wrong with you but I like it
um
this is uh
this is some
this is a cool photo
well that's me that's
me and Igor no this is a cute photo
that this is like me and
my buddy Igor he's like my new
father basically
sounds kind of like you know he's like a father
figure to me and
he it's me and him standing
this is like a Heimers
Heimers is like a weapon that we
use quite a lot from United States
uh it's like
uh basically like
a car cast of the
Heimers weapons thing
basically we're standing there
and you go
this is one of his dogs
he has a bunch of those
that's so good you think of like a German
shepherd or like a really brutal dog
oh it's um how do you call
that shit I forgot how it's called
the the the bridge yeah
Chihuahua yeah Chihuahua we call it
which is the same thing you know
yeah it's she's she's like
a very brain dead but
cute yeah
I love that
oh that's like and me
that's my my buddy whose daughter was
freaking out I told you about he was screaming
like I'm about to die we can't it's that's his
daughter yeah he's my very
close friend of mine like Azerbaijani
Ukrainian he's a volunteer as well
so I mostly work with him
now and he's
he's he and I am holding drone
there like we bought for the army
uh yeah
that's that's the drone yeah this is
all all yourself and guys just a reminder
if you go to Anastasia's
uh twitter which is
linked wrong in the chat because you recently changed
your name um but let me
Ukrainian Anna here this is
the neat name basically DGG
gave me like uh Steven also
would call me like that he
pronouncing name my name
so he would say like Ukrainian Anna
or Ukrainian girl or Ukrainian woman
or whatever the fuck so I just basically played
on that and called myself Ukrainian Anna
is how they called me so I decided
like why not you know I
mean we get in his his dog
or couple dogos
that's so good I am
I am not a I
can't pronounce your name but I still
you can you can not the words
oh that's me in
which is a region in Ukraine that
was in Harkiv in my city
that was destroyed thoroughly
there's uh almost
half a million people live there and now
they're on they're all had to live their houses
oh jeez oh that's me with
yeah that's me with the dudes
yeah this person that's on the
left from me is like my is
incredibly cool oh that's me in a
highmers yeah
so yeah so that's
that's so cool um
yeah oh that's me with the stupid
dogs yeah that's you get
dogs I love
I love these photos you got
that's so good yeah
I was freezing oh that's my birthday
that's my birthday I got
flowers yeah
I remember seeing a post of
and you're very active on twitter
I remember seeing a post of your mum's birthday
and I was like no that's
that's my birthday yeah this is
this is your birthday but I remember seeing a post about
your mum's birthday and I was like
tell your mum like I love your mum she just seems
like such a nice person
she's gone through so much um yeah
yeah we'll tell her oh that's me
and uh yeah the guys
this is the first quad bike we'll board
yeah and uh
actually the guy that's standing near me
Bogdan he got injured recently
but he's fine now
yeah oh Dylan
Dylan is getting me yeah
he's
a guy with a good hair yeah
yeah I love Dylan he's a cool dude
um
oh you need to show the cute Stenny
show the cute Stenny
I was going to
so I was going to end on that actually
so um
I you you were
you were actually so much
you were so much like no this is
the most important image we need to show
this whole thing you know we got like
you know more footage and you know all this stuff
you're like no this is the image
that you need to show and I was like okay so this is
the last image we'll show
yeah oh yeah
so I love that
you're like for you it's like
so much money right because obviously
you got Ukraine you're not a super rich and you're like
I don't care I got to get a destiny
plushies because destiny is helping you
yeah I I actually bought it
it's like with my own money
that I got from my work with
journalist I worked for the Economist
uh journal
and I uh got some money for them
and I get
what destiny is plushy for
myself as a New Year's gift
and um yeah
he's cute and he is with me
right now it was New Year's as you can see
the tree and stuff
so I bought I bought myself a present
to support my favorite streamer
yeah because he did so much
for me uh yeah it's
just pretty I'm
super grateful to be quite honest because it's just
not him like
he didn't give me any money but you know
his community did so he allowed me
on his platform and
DGG supported almost
all my volunteer work
so pretty much forever grateful
yeah and I do
I wanted to have some kind of like a token
of that
so yeah I do
talk about him every time I can
because I'm grateful and I want people to know
I'm grateful so
yeah he gets a lot of shit you know
he gets a lot of shit
yeah so I want to
to show my that I
it's not just you know shit
he's a very good person
he did quite a bit for me
he changed my life and
saved I guess
he could save really thousands of lives
because um
2000
yeah because out of 2000 medical
hemostatic
dressings I bought all of them were used
so
yeah so this is something you use when
you have very severe wounds
so wounds that are very
dire to your life
they're very threatening so
yeah so this is something that he
is community sponsored
so I would like to point out
to all the fucking haters
that he
unlike you all who did
nothing good
saved so many lives so yeah
fuck you all by the way
and did you
wait oh so the haters I thought you were talking about
like what am I a community leader
your community is based I love you
I mean people who like
constantly shit on him I get shit
so much for him
for being associated with him so I would
get like threats
threats like rape threats
just because I associate with him
it's pretty crazy and
yeah so I would like to point out that
did you do amazing job
in helping me and I
I'm forever grateful like
for the day I die I think
would be forever grateful
to them because I could
do so much so much
like way more than I ever expected
to do in my life and with
my life so yeah
I would like to you know
splash some positivity that way
exactly I think
you know destiny definitely has
like I will
say
he's definitely misunderstood
I'll say that but I'm a big fan
I love I love what he does I don't agree
with everything that like all his perspectives or anything
which is great like you shouldn't agree with everyone
I'm not unless you're obviously right
but yeah but I do
appreciate that the kind of content he makes and I think
that people don't give him the benefit of the doubt
when it comes to
so much shit like also
like this things like
people with right I don't know if you can
it's a bit rude but I will say it you know
people would say like oh he only like talks
with you because he wants to fuck you
stuff like that he wants to get in your pants
just so disgusting he never
did anything like that I mean like
well we talk sometimes obviously
but it's just he
it's just
nothing from me like he gave me
like a lot and he asked for nothing
so so it's just it's just
very I don't know it's just
just pisses me off
pisses me off yeah
yeah just yeah
well yeah I do consider
him to be
quite influential in terms of my
life you know how I managed to
help people thanks to his community
but it's just
nothing but you know kind
and good to me so it's just
did you know about this thing before
you were introduced to him
no I mean
I only found out that there was
like such a thin as political
like streamers
youtubers and twitch
and stuff like that only after
I started to just
research what people are saying about Ukraine
basically so I stumbled upon
none other than Hassan Piker
and I was not pleased
he's another beautiful man
yeah I'm not pleased with
his take with his takes let's put
like that about Ukraine so
afterwards I started researching and maybe there's
other people so I came into contact
with Dylan Burns like that
so I messaged him
and told him like if you want to go
come to Harkiv then I will be your guide
and we'll show you stuff that's why how we became
friends and stuff like that
but I also like discovered people like
Destiny, like Bosch and
Adam Something, Lonerbox
who I talked with two times I think
he's my favorite lefty
I like him a lot so yeah
so basically people like that
you had a conversation with not so Erudite as well
she's pretty cool oh yeah not so Erudite
lovely person
and very like empathetic
intelligent and great interview
she and I gave an interview
basically on her channel a couple times
so yeah basically like I discovered all of this
like internet thing
I was not an internet person at all
I didn't have any like social media
before work so
this is why I'm trying to explain to you
you just need to do a dance on
just a couple of videos of you dancing on Russian
it doesn't have to be a tank
like you know
Russian like a fleet something
or something you know it just
send it to me I'll set you up on account
I'll do it all
it will change the war
it'll piss off your Putin so much
I will wait for you
when you come to Ukraine when it's a bit safer
so we can dance on tanks together
it's just something we need to do
hopefully it's safe enough that I can bring
little Atlas and Atlas can join us
and Amy can join us
quite soon yeah
not for soon
I don't know how long
this war will be
so I try not to think about that
much but you know it is what it is
and yeah
I think when it's all good
and safe then you're welcome but for now
stay in Australia
I'm not bringing it but I won't even
put my life in this
of course you're like a father
and the baby and stuff
I love that little
nugget so much
of course yeah
100%
I don't see
once this war ends
I'll definitely be over there
saying hello
and continuing the friendship
so
thank you so much for coming on Deepdrinks
I really appreciate it
we're going to keep up these quarterly
drinking sessions
I hope on your
charity stream
for sure because
love you man
well the charity stream is all
for you at the moment I'm trying to get some other charities
to come along as well
yeah I know you told me
yeah and
we're going to be having a lot of fun
it's going to be awesome it's a big thank you
to everyone who got me to 1000 subscribers
which I really appreciate for those who don't know
yay good job channel
we had a panel of 5
PhDs talking about
does the bible condone slavery
which that was a wild one
and so tomorrow
morning well tomorrow
about the same time tomorrow
we have an interview with this
doctor
Kyle Smith
the author of this book
call to the dead
it's about the martyrs of Christianity
it's pretty cool
thank you so much for coming on
is there anything else you want to say before we finish up
I need to
finish this I think it would be good
and I'm all done
but anyhow I am really grateful
for everyone who you know listened
and stuff like that if you want to donate
go to my twitter account
and yeah
I would pretty much that's about it
support David he's awesome
he's lovely and my favorite Australian
send all your money to Anna
but if you can support me as well
great
become a youtube member and your comments will pop up
Dee thank you so much
you're also a patreon supporter
thank you so much Dee for joining the stream
I really appreciate it
thank you skeptics and scoundrels as well
you're also a patreon supporter
I really appreciate it
I'm trying to get
I'm trying to do this full time
so the more support I can get the better
yes support David he's awesome
what were you saying sorry
I just wanted to say that I talked to some
quite a bit of people at this point
with like you know interviews and stuff like that
and I think like the
you still remain
to be one of the absolute best
like loveliest people I talked with
so I would appreciate
like anyone you know
supporting David's channel so he can do it
like full time because he deserves it
his content is great he's a lovely person
and he's a cute baby
I'll support him
I'll take that and I'm going to clip that
and I'm going to post that on Twitter
so everyone can know and I'll tag all the people I want into you
thank you so much Anna
it's great to hear from you guys
make sure you follow Twitter and send her all your money
don't pay for your mortgage you don't need to this month
it's all good but no seriously
anything you can help
I can just leave you have spare money
or we will end
we will end on the
purity culture panel trailer which is coming up
see you guys soon bye
thanks for watching
