One hundred episodes, baby.
That's right.
One hundred episodes of Deep Drinks.
I'm so excited that it's, it's, that's wild.
Like what each episode goes for like 90 minutes, like sometimes longer, like we've had like
episodes that go for like three hours and we're at a hundred and that is like a huge,
this is a huge celebratory stream.
We have a few surprises and a few things coming up and I'm super excited to see everyone.
Hey, heck out in Dadpool AR, Stacy's Mom's podcast, Pragmatic Crystals, it's great to
see all you guys and it's great to party.
Let me know what are you guys drinking in the comments because I have a smorker's board
of drinks that I'll be drinking tonight.
But because of that, I needed a bit of a co-host.
I needed someone who was sober, who could help pull in the ship because this stream will
be going pretty wild, I think.
I, Cheryl, it's awesome to see you.
So I'd like to beer and pizza, that sounds great AR, so I'd like to hang for she.
Hi, everyone.
I'd like to introduce the first secret guest of Deep Drinks 100, my friend, Sydney Davis,
Junior Jr.
Welcome.
Hey, yo.
What's going on?
Happy 100th birthday.
It's just crazy.
Like I really, like this is wild to me that we've got to a hundred episodes.
I remember thinking early on, like if I got to a hundred episodes, like I wonder if I
would just like call it that, but like, I feel like this is just starting.
I was going to say you're just getting started, I feel like you're like tearing up, but like
your ideas are already just like spinning in your head.
I know.
It's going, it's my, I've got some wild stuff coming for 2024, you know, and I'm so excited
about them.
But yeah, so, but first, Sydney, who are you?
People should know you, but who are you for those who don't know you?
Who am I?
First, first, first, first, first, first, first, I'm going to crack open my first drink,
which was a drink suggested by Aaron Ra, Cooper's extra, best extra stout, and he brought
onto the podcast.
I was a bit like, Cooper's okay, that's, but I had this and I was like, does something
that happens to you when you drink it?
It's like a nice warm glow that comes out of your soul or where my soul will be.
Christianity just leaves you.
The religion, just the voice of Aaron just summons this, you know, so, so that's what
I'm drinking.
That's what I'm drinking to start off with.
So, but anyway, Sydney, who are you?
Who am I?
Well, before I tell them who I am, I just want to say, first of all, congratulations.
I know I said that, but second of all, I love when good things happen to good people
and you're good people.
So you deserve every bit of this 100 episodes.
I'm so stoked.
I'm stoked to be here, to be a part of it.
But who am I?
I am the host of Growing Up Fundy, which is a, I was about to say a documentary.
I don't know why I was going to say that.
It's just a-
You're the civil one.
I know.
I know.
I know.
I'm sorry.
There's a tornado going on outside.
There's a lot going on.
So, yeah, I'm the host of a podcast called Growing Up Fundy.
It's both audio on platforms and it's also here on YouTube and I just threw my pen where
I talk to people who grew up within any strict religion.
It doesn't have to be evangelicals or fundamentalists, but that's kind of where it started because
I grew up with the Duggers, which for anybody who lives in the United States, that's like,
they're like the famous evangelical family here.
They're like the one that started the whole thing, like people knowing about evangelicals
and fundamentalists.
So, when I was telling my partner about that, he was like, have you ever talked to anybody
about that?
And I said, no.
And he said, well, I think you should.
I think he meant therapy, but I started a podcast.
So that's what I did.
And then, yeah, so now we just like, like now in hindsight, I'm like, I think he meant
a professional, but here we are, you know.
And so, yeah, so that's what I do basically.
And I think, like, and you're also, you're also a comedian or a stand-up comedian and
you haven't been doing that for like, you've been doing that for like 15 years or something.
Yeah.
Some of your stand-up is really funny.
Well, I say some of it.
I say only some of it, not because somebody's in front of you.
Some of it's mediocre, but you can say it.
It's fine.
It's some days are good.
Some days are bad.
That's live entertainment for you.
So I've, I've actually had people.
So the video of my first set is out there on YouTube and it's so bad.
And I was 16.
I was in 11th grade in the video, but I looked a lot different.
And so I've literally had people I've dated in the past to be like, Hey, did you know
there's another Sydney Davis comedian?
And I'm like, I'm like, no, I was like, that's me.
And they're like, no, no, no.
She's like, she's, she's bad.
Like she's really bad.
Um, and she's kind of like ugly.
And I'm like, no, that's me.
And they're like, no, no, trust me, she's that and she's bad and she has no eyebrows.
And I'm like, I promise you that's me.
And I have to quote the set for them to be like, Oh, no, Oh, no.
So that's, I remember you say, you say you sharing an image of yourself in the past where
you, I guess you didn't think you looked the best and you are, and someone thought you
were, you just, you were saying that someone thought you were like picking on someone.
You're like, no, that's me.
That's me.
Yes.
Yeah.
I posted a picture of myself as a teenager and I roasted myself without specifying it
was me as a teenager and people thought I was bullying a teenager.
They thought I'd found a teenager who had the same name as me or something.
Like they thought I was online bullying her.
Um, and when I, I went back to my hometown to get my driver's license and when I was
at the DMV, this lady was like, she got this confused look on her face.
And she was like typing around on the computer and she was taking my picture and typing around
and she goes, I'm so sorry, honey.
Whenever I take your picture, it pulls up this other girl.
I'm so sorry.
I'm trying to fix it.
And I was like, I was like, no, it's me.
And she goes, no, no, honey.
It's not you.
And I said, I literally said, does she look like a Caucasian Dora the explorer with no
eyebrows?
And the lady just looks at me and I was like, told you, that's me.
I was like, I swear, I can even tell you what address is under.
So I don't actually remember the images.
Are you saying you've gotten better looking with age?
Is that like, are you like fine wine?
I like to think so, but I've just gotten different looking.
I just look like a totally different human being.
I like to think it's better, but different is fine too.
Cause it was a rough, like puberty was not kind to me.
It was a rough time.
So even if I don't look better, I just look different.
That's okay.
That is okay.
Because I had the whole triangle hair, big ol braces, no eyebrows, bad style, just wild.
It was a rough time.
I have the opposite problem in that.
Every time I look back at photos of myself and I'm like, thinking to myself, remember
that time, I was like, I remember feeling so self conscious about how I looked and
feeling so fat and like, and just like, just a big blob of like, and I look back.
I'm like, I'm fucking ripped.
I'm handsome.
Holy shit.
And then that's happened so many times now.
I'm like, I should just be confident for where I'm at because it's going to get worse.
And I'm going to look back at this time and be like, damn, I was good looking back then.
So I'm just trying to like be confident, despite the writing on the walls, I should say.
So that's not, that's not my experience.
I feel like that's everybody else's experience.
I am undoing the damage.
I'm like trying to, I'm just trying to Angelina Jolie my way out of the, you know, 16, 17, 18.
Honestly, even through my early 20s, it was rough.
It was a rough ride, but I feel like you've got to have an ugly period in your life.
You've got to have a period where you just don't feel the best.
And you just like, you know what, whatever, an ugly two decades.
It's fine.
Like everybody's just fucking ugly for two 20 years.
You know, it's totally fine.
Don't worry about it.
I did go back to my class reunion though recently and everybody looked great.
It was upsetting.
I was like, I thought I was going to come here for vengeance.
Everybody looked really good and they were nice.
And it was like, this is not how this is supposed to work.
I'm supposed to walk in and be shocked.
But they weren't like the music's supposed to like music stops.
Everyone like turns.
Girl.
So, um, so I want to, I made a little montage.
Now, this is some of my favorite moments from Deep Drinks.
Not all of them.
There are actually some moments that I think were better than this, but I've used
them in other situations and stuff, but these are some of my favorite moments
that I haven't, I guess, shattered from the rooftops too much, uh, of the last
hundred episodes of Deep Drinks.
This goes for like nine minutes and let's, uh, let's check it out.
There's some hot, some sad, some laughs, some, some, oh, and there's some yay.
So let's check it out and let's do this.
Mother told me, you know, son, uh, your mother told me about, about, you know,
you were wearing, is it makeup to school?
You're wearing makeup.
And I, and I, I remember him kind of saying it with this like weird, like
disgust of like, you know, is this, is this, am I hearing it right?
That's right.
Since I left Christianity, exorcisms have become, have come a long way.
Now apparently you can command the spirit of the intercrest to come out of
people through the comment section.
Well, actually, apparently it doesn't work, um, because I'd like to welcome
Emily and possibly the spirit of the intercrest.
Welcome, Emily.
Yeah, that's, hey guys, it's us.
So Paul and Mike were in the back room together.
Mike was blowing kisses at Paul.
Mike keeps blowing kisses at me.
And I said, I've told Mike once, if I've told him once, I told him a hundred
times, let's stop flirting with my fucking boyfriend.
So I messaged Mike and I was like, bitch, Paul told me that you're blowing
kisses at him, stop flirting with my boyfriend.
Just wrote back in quotation marks and like the big text, then small text,
so like big ass, then small tea, and then big oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Stop flirting with my boyfriend.
Lift yours up.
I think your green screen might be.
Oh, yeah, you're green.
Like we can't forget the Gospels are in literary, like no matter what.
I would love to see you like, um, for Dirty Shelly's Deep, um, arguing with
an apologist about this.
This would be amazing.
Um, just as shriveled.
Yeah, yeah.
Presuppositional arguments are the worst because if you're going to
presuppose God, there's no reason for you to construct an argument.
If you're going to presuppose God, just fucking presuppose him and be done with it.
Every single cell in my body at that time wanted to stay Muslim, right?
Because that's, that is literally like, I mean, I don't know nothing else.
Oh, a siren.
Oh shit, really?
A minute.
Oh my God.
So air rates just start happening and you seem so casual about it.
Like, well, it must be, you must be so desensitized at this stage to the constant
threat against your life.
Yeah.
I have a question though.
Like, did, did you always have these pet peeves or was it just when you chose the
gay lifestyle?
Well, oh, hang on, guys, something, uh-oh, hang on.
Hey, you probably, uh, yeah, you probably don't know this, but, uh, I mean, I kind
of bunk, uh, I bunk here at the Bowen household.
Saying feelings and experiences that I would have on like a worship night or
whatever, those exact same feelings, I'll have in a musical.
There was one event where we had a Christmas event called Red and Green Day
and I had my cousin paint my nails red and green.
I went like this to the camera to show off my nails.
I was like, look at my nails.
And I had my teacher recommend me to that and my dad told me that that was bad.
I shouldn't have done it anyway.
And if I'm going to do it, just look at my nails like this.
This is how men look at their nails.
Men don't do this.
Have you lost relationships with your like family, like your other, I guess,
your parents and siblings and stuff?
Have you lost a relationship with them a little bit?
Yeah, all of them.
Really?
And I lost my three best friends.
As far as like unified worldviews, I don't think that there is one.
I think that there's like very, there's different starting points.
There's different lenses in which how people are viewing the world.
And the diversity of that at the end of the day is something that can be
celebrated and viewed approached in a way that is pluralistic and with tolerance.
Or it can be viewed in a way that is like doxact, doxastically strict in
which we're saying, no, no, no, there's only one acceptable way to do things.
And that is one of my fundamental problems with Christianity is that
they go about things that way.
This was supposed to be saved for when I met you in person.
But Jimmy, go fuck yourself.
With all the love in the world from Venus, go fuck yourself, Jimmy.
Go fuck yourself, Jimmy.
Go fuck yourself, Jimmy.
Hey, Jimmy, yeah, you go fuck yourself.
There's just a lot of very wholesome super chats coming in.
And so I was having to read compliments to myself.
I got to this point where I was like, everybody, I'd way rather you
tell me, go fuck myself.
Like I would feel more love reading.
Go fuck yourself a bunch than having to keep reading like Jimmy.
But I got to tell you, I like compliments are uncomfortable for me.
And what and that intro is so sweet and such a kind thing.
I'm beginning to hate it.
It's way too sexual to hug or to say I love you.
That's a worldly sexual word.
But that day when he said that anyway, I knew that he was sorry that he felt bad
that what had happened to me and all that he had put me through.
And that is actually really when our relationship began, because we
secretly started because he was still drinking.
He was still kind of an alcoholic.
And I went picking him up and I didn't care if he was an alcoholic.
I didn't care if he was drunk because I was starting to drink it myself at
that time because I was not honest anymore.
So we mean, he started like secretly having a father-son relationship off
and on when mom and the church didn't know.
And so a lot of scholars think that this, these shots, the Shasu group
that occupied this land may have moved into the northern hill country
and brought their deity with them, who was named after the land Adonai.
And so maybe Adonai was a secondary import into the Israelite pantheon.
So they had statues.
These are the first Christians that we know about that had statues that worshiped
like they had like idol statues like the Greeks would do.
They had a statue of Jesus next to Pythagoras and Plato.
I know this is this is like a prejudice, but I still is a deep thing.
I still can't emotionally accept that Catholics are Christians.
From my generation, Catholic might as well has been Jehovah's Witness
or Mormon or something like something like that.
Because yeah, I was just focused on slavery
because that is such a moral conundrum, right?
Like we all are living in a time where the impacts of centuries of it
are still showing drink.
God was working within his time.
And he was working within his time.
And it was just he had to he had to do it because his hands were tired.
And, you know, like he could say don't even shrimp,
but he couldn't tell people not to own up humans' property.
I killed hell.
Thank you for the fire, Deepkins, memberships.
Twice a week, I would walk the six foot six inch tall bird down to the court.
Hi. So that I can see why I don't know what kind of neighborhood you live in.
But I would be terrified.
I'd be like, what is this madman doing?
So, yeah, you're looking perfectly drunk, perfectly tired.
What time is it there for you?
It is six a.m.
Oh, Jesus.
J. Campbell wrote that in India, and Eon is four million three hundred and twenty
then say Valhalla has five hundred and forty doors that
that eight hundred in Hesha charge from
five hundred and forty times eight hundred equals three thousand four hundred
three four. Oh, my gosh.
Forty three thousand.
Wait, four million three hundred and twenty.
Oh, my gosh. Four forty three.
No, what?
Ha, ha, ha, ha.
People should have to feel a little uneasy
when their God fits squarely in their back pocket, you know,
and he ends up agreeing with everything they think.
And this is a real problem
because that suggests that that God is just a.
Bullshit, you know, it's it's a.
Ha, ha, ha.
What, if anything, would change your mind on the issue of God,
specifically a benevolent God, I'm asked the question,
what would it take for you to believe in God?
And I used to give the same answer while a good piece of evidence.
But I kind of like the answer that Matt de la Honte gave.
If you believe in an omnipotent God,
I wouldn't even need to know what it would take to change my mind,
because God would know an omnipotent,
omniscient God would know exactly what it would take to convince me.
Yeah, yes, yes.
I actually I cut that together really quickly.
I've been really busy, but I cut it together
and I got a little emotional in it, like realizing
like how many like deep, like not to be a pun, but like
important conversations that yeah, like you kind of forget
because do it so much.
But yeah, there's a lot of moments that that are important.
Absolutely. And not only have you had them here,
but you've given those to people.
Those are conversations that you've not only
just hosted on your channel and and sat through and hosted,
but that you've given that many to people to watch
and to listen to and to take part in and to comment on.
And I think that's just as important.
Yeah, 100 percent.
OK, well, Sidney, yes, I've asked you to bring a quote
or an idea or a concept that you
that is important to you around the things that we talk about
in deep drinks, which is religion, philosophy, human rights and some science.
What are you brought?
So I have brought so, man, it was tough to pick one
because there are probably three times people have said something to me
that just absolutely changed my life.
But the one that I brought was the quote.
When someone shows you who they really are,
believe them the first time by Maya Angelou.
And I think phenomenal quote.
And I have taken that with me through every chapter of my life.
I first heard that quote when I was probably 22 or 23.
And at the time, all that really meant to me was like relationships,
you know, boyfriends, you know, if he's not willing to do this or that,
or if he says this or that early on, believe that that's who he is as a person.
But the more that I think about that quote,
the more that I feel like it's true in every aspect of communication
and relationships that you have with other human beings,
you learn it when you're in a job interview
and maybe like a red flag kind of pops up.
You're like, what was that thing that they said or did?
You learned that when you're interacting with people in public.
You know, I lived in Chicago for 15 years
and people in public can be weird or dangerous
or not who you thought they were.
Or there when you live in a big city like that,
you definitely learn to kind of identify who the people are.
You should be watching out for, you know,
you learn that when you're in interpersonal relationships, right?
I remember I was I was in an appointment with a therapist years ago
and I felt like I was losing my mind over some personal things
that were going on in my life at the time.
And this quote, I felt like really linked with something else
that she said, where she said, you know, you keep you keep going
to the hardware store for milk.
She said the first time you walk into the hardware store,
you ask them if they have milk, they say no. OK, great.
The second time, maybe you just want to check,
maybe you just want to make sure that maybe they just didn't have it
the first time because they were out of stock.
So you go back in, you say, do you have milk here?
They say, no, we don't carry milk here.
If you continue to go back to that hardware store and ask for milk,
that is on you after that.
You're only harming yourself.
People tell you who they are.
They tell you what they can offer you.
And if you continue to expect more from them
after they've been honest about what they can provide, that's on you.
That then becomes your problem to stop going to them
for what they've already told you they can't provide for you.
And I feel like Maya Angelou told me that years before,
but I never really thought about it until the therapist told me that same thing.
People in your life, whether they're related to you,
professional connections, social connections,
any kind of connection that you make,
they will tell you every time through body language,
through words, through actions, through inactions.
They'll tell you who they are and they're being honest about it.
You just have to believe them, right, especially as women.
I don't know if men experience this, but as women, when a man says,
no, I'm not like a very nice person.
I'm pretty selfish.
We think I'm going to fix that.
I'm going to change that.
I'm going to be the girl who believes in him enough that he's not like that anymore.
When really what he's saying is, I'm selfish.
That's who I am.
And it's going to take you the next three years of trying to change that to realize
I've been telling you who I was since day one.
And I feel like that honesty applies to so many interactions we have on a regular basis,
but so many people don't want to hear you when you're honest about who you are.
Whoa.
That is like, that is profound.
Let me dive into that.
But first, I just had the biggest YouTube chat we've ever had,
and I want to just quickly shout out.
It's actually my boss.
Thank you!
Oh, wow!
Thank you, Guido!
Thank you!
Everyone, check out video media on Instagram!
Thank you, Guido!
Your drinks from me today, Merry Christmas.
Thanks.
Thanks, Josh.
I really appreciate that.
And congrats to the 100 streams.
I really appreciate the super chats.
I know money is tight for everyone at the moment.
It's like the cost of living is insane everywhere.
So I really appreciate it.
Also, what a supportive boss.
Wow.
Yeah, he's incredibly supportive.
He helped me with the lighting.
That's why he was talking about how good it was the other day.
Just go.
He's like, oh, critical faculty, thank you for the super chat.
Congrats, Dave.
Love you, workmate.
See you later today.
Awesome.
That's amazing.
Thank you, critical faculty.
Guys, I really appreciate that.
That means a lot.
Here's to 100 episodes.
But Sydney, back to what you were saying.
Sorry, that was like, they're the two huge super chats.
Thanks, guys.
I really appreciate that.
But so how, like, do you think that relates to, like,
more than just, like, single people that can relate to, like...
Yes.
OK, so, like, can you write the quote in the comments
and I'll bring it up on the screen?
Sure can.
Yeah, I can, can I write it from here?
I don't think I, I'll write it from my account.
OK.
So it was, when someone shows you who they really are,
believe them the first time by Maya Angelou.
So I just posted that in the, in the comments.
I, so I think about that now from the perspective of a lot
of the stories I hear from my interviewees.
Cult leaders, right?
Leaders of your church.
People who are of any sort of religious prominence
or psychological prominence.
A lot of times we see, you know, and there's a lot
of extreme examples, like, Jonestown, but sometimes
there's much smaller examples, like, just, you know,
who ends up being a sex offender at a local Baptist
church or something like that.
And I hope I don't get us, like, demonetized
or something like that.
No, no, this stream will be demonetized.
So demonetized.
Oh, OK, guaranteed.
So people are usually very honest about who they are
from the very beginning.
Even if what they're saying is, no, that's not what I mean.
We're a family here.
We just want the best for you.
Their actions or their rules or their responses to you
whenever you need something from them will speak
so much louder than maybe the lies they're saying
with their mouth.
So for example, when I was in church, I remember
them saying, you know, if you ever have questions,
come to your pastor, come to your youth leader.
We'd love to talk to you about your questions that
you have.
And then you go to them and you say,
why does this not make sense in the Bible?
Or why would God allow this to happen if he loves us?
And their response is, well, why are,
have you been asking yourself these questions a lot?
Like, are you OK?
It seems like maybe you're doubting God.
And that might be why you have so many questions,
because you're actually doubting God.
And it's not the Bible that doesn't make sense.
It's you letting the devil in so that you doubt.
Do you see what I'm saying?
Like, even though they say with their mouth,
ask me anything, when you do, they shut it down.
Exactly.
They, you have to ask the right questions.
I mean, there is like this, there was a tent at
some Carol's event where they, they showed food
Ukraine and Ukraine and all this stuff and said,
just, you know, last year and said, you know,
our world's really hurting.
And if you've got answers, if you've got answers,
we've got the, you know, if you've got questions,
we've got the answers.
The alcohol's already affecting me.
And so I wanted to go in there and go like slavery.
What does the Bible say about slavery?
But I knew that they're just, they're not
interested in answering those questions.
They want to know, like, you know, I'm missing
something in my heart and stuff.
And, you know, this, this brings me back to
something my boss, he's my friend first.
He's actually, he was one of my small group lads.
He was one of the people I had the anti-masculation
talks with back when he was like one of 14,
15 and I was 19.
Now he's my boss, but he came on to a community
stream once and he told it all before.
I'm not, I'm not like dox, blasting his dirty laundry
or anything.
But, but he once said that he went to city point
in Brisbane city, which is a church there.
And he, and this same guy introduced himself to him
three separate times in three weeks in a row.
Hey, hey, don't on bill.
Hey, go on.
Like, and it's just like so fake.
And I remember I was thinking the other day,
I remember actually one of those guys called up
when you're a youth pastor, they call up and they're like,
Hey, you want to bring some of your guys down?
We've got a conference going on.
You should bring your crew down.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Like cause they're trying to get their numbers in
because it helps with attendance and selling merch
and tithing offerings and everything.
And I, he called me up right when I had like stepped away
or a lot kind of lost the job of the youth pastor.
And I was kind of miserable and stuff.
And this guy called me up who I knew from that church.
And I said, Oh, actually, man, like I'm really like
struggling at the moment.
I need someone to talk to my, I'm, you know, and they're like,
Oh man, yeah, I'd love to catch up, dude.
Like I'd love to talk to you.
Like, you know what?
Maybe you could like bring some guys down
and we could catch up tonight.
And I was just like, you know, like, like,
I was on a speakerphone and my mate in the car
and I looked at him and he's like, they're just, they're so fake.
It's like, and that would be an example, I guess,
of someone showing you who they are the first time.
Yes.
I think believe them.
Yes, yes.
They're not interested in.
100%.
And I noticed that a lot, even before I got involved
in this community, when I was doing standup,
you have so many friends.
You have all these friends.
You have so many friends until you don't have anything to offer them.
And then you have no friends.
And luckily I caught on to that.
You know, I was, I literally went through puberty and standup,
which is both a gift and a curse.
But like, I knew that going through, you know, when I was 21
and everybody was like, Oh, we're your friends.
Well, let's hang out.
I knew that that was because I had things to offer at the time.
I wasn't tricked in any way by what this relationship was.
Right.
And then lockdown happens.
Nobody is doing standup.
Oh, you've got a major super chat.
Hold on.
Oh my gosh.
Aaron, thank you.
Oh, yeah.
Look, co-host can thank you for bringing up the thing.
That's awesome.
100 level super chat.
Thank you so much, Aaron.
Aaron is the pope of deep drinks.
And you've already given so much to the channel.
I can't express how important you are.
And, you know, Aaron's spoken to me and he may be stepping down as pope
in a couple of months.
So he will still always be the first pope,
but we might be looking for a new pope of deep drinks.
But can you please host a campaign for the pope,
like a campaign competition, like vote for the pope?
That would be hilarious.
Like a pageant.
Yeah.
Well, that would be cool.
But thank you so much, Aaron, for the super chat.
That's some incredible.
That's very generous.
Thank you so much.
Yes.
So when someone shows you who they really are,
believe them the first time that, yeah, that's that's that's profound.
So do you think?
Yeah, I'm just wondering, like, how how far can you take this?
Like, how could you how far could you take this?
Like, could you?
I honestly apply it to every situation.
For example, when a company puts out shirts that like during LGBTQ events,
they put out rainbow shirts or they put out like Black Lives Matter stuff.
But then when you look into them as a company, all they've done is put out merchandise that
they make money off of, right?
Like, yeah, they put all the designs and the logos and they and they partner with these companies.
But then when you really look at it, it's like, oh, what they're actually doing is just putting
out merch they know you're going to buy right now.
And that's the extent of it.
Or are they actually donating that money?
These companies will show you early on who you can and cannot trust.
You just have to be willing to look for it.
You just have to be listening.
It's so easy for us to be like, oh, I'm going to put the little logo or whatever on my Facebook
profile picture.
But are they actually donating money to that thing?
Or is Facebook just profiting off of the fact that they have, you know, like a world peace symbol
or a stand for, you know, they so many places when it really comes down to putting in action
will tell you without even having to use words who they are, what they stand for.
Look at Robin Hood.
Literally, their name is Robin Hood.
And when all that stuff with GameStop started going down and they froze people's ability
to sell Robin Hood stock, literal Robin Hood shit was going down and they picked the side
of the million.
You know what I'm saying?
Like they showed us.
They showed us all in that moment who they were this whole time.
They've been like, no, we're Robin Hood.
We're here for the little man.
This is not the other.
And then when it is literally time to prove that you are Robin Hood,
they take the side of the millionaires on Wall Street and they squish the little man.
Right?
Yeah.
I'm wondering how far and I have a tendency to stretch things beyond the original meaning,
but I wonder how far you could take this in like.
So I know that like Marcian, one of the early Christian fathers who run,
who ran a group called retroactively, retrospectively called the Marcianites,
they rejected the Old Testament God.
Like they were like, no, the Old Testament God has nothing to do with Jesus.
Jesus was on a whole different wavelength.
And they're like, you're telling me that what the one that said the little ones come to me
is the same person who said, you know, kill the middle of the Midianites.
And you know, are you saying that, you know, the one that said curses don't want to hang on a tree
is the one that hung Jesus on a tree like hung Jesus on the cross.
So and I wonder if like if Marcian was having that same thing.
He's just like, you know what the Old Testament God showed me himself.
The first time he can't be this God of Jesus.
He can't be like, there's obviously something here.
Like he obviously believed in Jesus for some reason.
He's like, but I just can't accept that Old Testament stuff.
That Old Testament stuff is brutal.
It's vile, et cetera.
You know, yeah.
You know, if you really want to know what God is really like, the biblical God,
talk to a Calvinist because a Calvinist,
as much as they are the scariest people I've ever seen in my entire life,
a Calvinist, if you say, so you're telling me God, this God that you serve,
would also demand the murder of babies in Egypt.
And a Calvinist will go, yes.
And you're like, okay, but would God really flood the earth
and kill a bunch of innocent people?
And a Calvinist would go, yep.
Like at least they read the Bible.
And if they're going to call themselves a literalist, they stick with it, right?
As opposed to everybody else who's like, no, it was a different time.
That's a different translation.
What they actually meant was this or it was metaphorical.
Calvinists are like, no, that's how it do be.
There's Calvinists, like I don't know much about Calvinists, but there was this meme.
I'm just trying to find it.
This meme that I sent to my Christian sister-in-law that I just think is so relevant for this
right now, but I'm just trying to find it.
But I just don't know if I can, I might be on Instagram or something.
It's so, I'll have to find another time.
But it's like, Calvinists have this perspective that someone's like,
I love Jesus.
And it's like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Things don't work that way, buddy.
This is how you have to be the Christian.
It's like the us versus their mentality.
But they've turned it into like they're against the church now.
They're against Christianity.
They're like, where are they even, we're even truer than the truer.
Are they like, right?
Well, not only that, but Calvinists are the one that believe that your,
whether or not you get saved is decided by God before you're born.
So not only do they believe what they believe, but they also believe that there's a chance
you're doing all of this and you're going to go to hell anyway.
That's so wild.
Because it's been predetermined.
Like they've also decided or they believe that God decided the moment you were conceived,
whether or not you were going to hell and there's nothing you can do to change it.
But you still got to follow all these rules.
Yeah.
That's bananas.
That's bizarre.
You see, that's like, yeah, I had a conversation with the Calvinists and I challenged them on that.
I was like, your God seems kind of cruel.
And they said, yeah, well, you believe in a God that like, you know, heals people.
Like, I find it kind of cruel that you would say that and then not be outside of a children's
ward of a hospital, every single day.
And I'm like, whoa, like, I'm like, yeah, that's like, damn it.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, or something like that.
Yeah, I had not so erudite on the other day, Akaila.
Great conversation.
She's a Christian.
But, you know, she mentioned and she would admit, like straight up,
straight up that she doesn't have an answer for this.
But she would say that, you know, she has like special, you know, she's heard from God like
not to believe in God, but then like, because she's had like, you know, people,
you know, say something to her that meant something and things like that.
But like the question I didn't ask and I know, I know, like Kyler is a smart person,
but I know that she would say, like if I said to her like, okay, like, so why can God give
you a message and then not, at least like children start to death or whatever, you know,
and she'd have, she would go, I don't, I don't, and she even said, I don't know
what the answer is, but for her it'd be silly not to, not to believe that that's, oh my gosh,
I lost my chain of thought.
But yeah, it's,
Well, yeah, and I think I will say this.
I have more respect for a person who says they don't know than for a person who makes
up a bunch of shit just to fill airtime, right?
So like, I remember when I was young growing up in church, everybody had an answer for
everything and it was this long-winded HR style answer that by the very end, you were
still confused, but because they had so much authority and confidence when they said it,
you felt like you were the problem.
And you're like, okay, I clearly don't get this because I don't know how it was when
you were growing up, but growing up, at least Southern in the Southern United States,
everything is very put on you.
You're not praying enough.
You're not doing enough.
Your relationship with God, you're this, you're that.
So when you find yourself in a scenario like that where you still feel like your question
wasn't answered, your automatic response is to say, it must have been something I did.
I must not have opened my heart to God enough to understand.
I must not have prayed hard enough.
I must not have.
So your instinct is to go, oh, well, if they're not making sense, it's not them.
It's me.
And I need to go home and read my devotions that I've been reading in order to understand
this.
And I still don't understand.
And so I feel like some religions bank on you being too scared to point out stuff like
that, to say, that doesn't make a lot of sense.
You just spoke a lot of words.
And I respect somebody a lot more when they can say, I don't know.
That's a great question.
I'm not sure.
I don't know that anybody has that answer.
But at the same time, I say, then why press it so hard on people if even you don't
know the answer?
Why act like it's, I don't know.
It just doesn't make sense to me.
Like, if you've never met anyone who has the answer to that question, why would you base
your life and your existence on that narrative as opposed to spending your life and your existence
finding the answer to that question instead of, do you see what I'm saying?
Like, I feel like that's a long-winded way of saying.
Go.
Go.
No, no.
Do you?
Do you?
Well, what I was going to say is, this is something I have happening time and time again
with.
I did a stream with Derek, and I, the stream with Derek is I had, I gave some reasons why
I lost, I no longer believe the Bible is infallible.
And I pointed it out that clearly Jesus said, I will return within a generation.
You know, the sun of, the whole earth will see the sun.
You know, it's not just like, you can't, you can't like wash it away.
Like, you know, the earthquakes, famine in various places, you see the whole earth will
see the sun of man coming in the clouds.
Yeah, exactly.
You've got to, and within a generation.
And so I just, I was on a recent podcast and we're going to do a second part, hopefully,
on deep drinks.
But the people I was talking to, they had issues with that.
And they, they sent me, they sent me like a list of like, you know, these are the,
these are the reasons why this could make sense.
The, the, the word generation could mean race and stuff.
And I'm like, okay, cool.
Like, and this is what happens when I used to, when I used to be a Christian, I used to look
at these, these answers that you're talking about, you get these answers like this long,
like, like essay.
And when you get to the top, you're confused, but you're like, well, they must know what
they're talking about because they said a lot of big words, but I didn't answer the
question.
So what I do with that question, I said, okay, you say that generation doesn't mean
generation, means a race of people, group of people, whatever.
Give me a Bible translation that says that.
Give me a Bible translation that, that says it in English that we could understand today,
because if you're saying that the scholars got this wrong, that the word generation here
means race.
And really it's going to be, you know, this generation will not pass away or the next
or the next or the next or the next.
In fact, it just means the race of people.
So as long as the Jewish people exist, like I tell you the truth, the Jewish people will
exist.
If you're saying that, then give me a Bible translation that reads like that in English
because like,
or if he, if the scholars got that wrong, then why can't you believe the scholars got
other stuff wrong?
Why are we sitting?
You know what I mean?
Like I've heard that too, where it's like, well, it was a different, and they mistranslated.
Okay.
So we admit part of this is mistranslated.
So why is the rest of it also not mistranslated?
Like, I don't understand what the, like, so we agree.
I know, I know, I totally agree.
Well, we are about to bring in our second guest and our second guest for the stream
and between each guest, a little video.
So let's do this as we bring on.
Merry Christmas from Amy and I.
Make sure you subscribe to Deep Drinks.
Welcome, Derek, from MythVision Podcast.
How you doing?
Welcome.
Hey, what's up?
What's up?
What's going on?
You were a last minute swap out because we had, we had someone who was sick, who couldn't make it.
And I was like, man, I've not lost you on this channel like a hundred times recently.
Like, and I'm like, I'm sorry.
And, but you're like, no, I can do it.
And you got into when you shared it, you've been working out, man.
Like, look at you.
I get to the japa.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Last minute, I was over here scripting an Enoch script to do another documentary on Enoch.
Gosh.
And then David calls me and says, um, I'm going to, um, I'm going to hurt you in a very bad,
violent way.
If you don't, and I was like, I'll be there, I'll be there.
Here I am.
That's it.
That's it.
So you're not in the bathtub.
Hank, for she said, so I normally call Derek when he's in the bathtub where he calls me.
You know, I've been thinking about the tub for a while now.
And I was like, all right, I'll go on the show.
Instead.
So what we're going to do guys.
So a lot of like, so those who don't know, we're going to bring a new guest in every half an hour.
And it's going to turn into a bit of a panel.
Some guests can't stay.
I don't think Derek can stay.
But it'll be half an hour slots.
And then we'll have like a hopefully a bit of a panel going by the end.
And it's a lot of cool guests coming up.
So you want to stick around because you want to, you want to enjoy this one.
This one's going to be a good one.
The man, the myth vision, the legend.
I just want to say, I'm so glad you brought Sydney's energy
because we need that.
That's you have a very optimistic, you know, energy that you bring in.
And I'm glad David, you know, I'm dead on the inside.
So I don't know.
It's just fake.
It's all fake.
Honestly, when I go on, when I go on other people's streams, I'm like, what's up guy?
Like, like, yeah, like sometimes I get like fucking weird and like just bizarre.
But when for some reason, when deep drinks starts, I'm like, all right,
time to amp it up.
I'm like, welcome everyone to deep drinks.
This is another relaxing hour as we talk about that.
Right.
And it's not until the end when like the viewership has dropped off that I've like
the drinks have kicked in and I'm starting to get a bit more.
Now you're really into it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Maybe even I just have a lot of probably mental issues.
I don't know.
We were talking about healthcare earlier.
It's too expensive in America.
So I should probably get like a brain scan, but I can't afford it.
It is health insurance is ridiculous.
So, you know.
Doesn't help.
Doesn't help much.
David, you forced me.
You coerced me with all that good love that you have to come here.
So what did you want to discuss, man?
Yes.
So this was like a half an hour before the stream starts kind of phone call.
And but everyone else I said, hey, prepare a quote, a book, an idea, a concept,
something that you can bring that means something to you around religion,
philosophy, human rights.
Obviously, but the reason I called Derek is because this man
is insane.
Like it's so many times he calls me when I'm at work and I put the phone down.
I have to continue working and he's just like, you got to see like amazing ideas.
Like he's just like overflowing.
So I was like, if there's anyone to call, it'd be Derek.
And so Derek, do you have anything you want to talk about around religion,
philosophy, human rights?
And of course you're working on that script with the book of Enoch.
So what's up?
Yeah.
Why not talk about the Bible, which is what I always talk about.
And like get into stuff like that.
I'm dealing with Enoch, who doesn't find his way into our what we call canon.
But good thing Dr. Davis is in the chat, of course, he can kind of echo and say,
yep, this is the case.
When the Dead Sea Scroll authors, these people we like to call as scenes,
kumran, whatever people like to give terms because of probably various groups in there,
wrote the book or the book of the watchers,
the book of the luminaries, which is the earliest versions of this material that we call one Enoch.
There was no Bible.
Like there was no standard canon.
And eventually later you get like what is and what isn't scripture.
But this thing was so important to Jews.
And it's so science fictiony.
I mean, we're talking it is so fake sounding.
And I'm just in the book of the watchers right now.
It just went through how the watchers, which are the angels or the Bene Elohim, the gods,
come down and one of them is like, hey, guys, let's make a vow.
We're going to go have sex with mortal women and everyone put your hand in.
Three, two, one, yay, let's go do it.
And next thing you know, they impregnate all these mortals.
And they have these Nephilim and those Nephilim have giants as the Senate.
Consumed humans after they run out of all the food the humans can give them because
they're trying to like stay alive.
And then eventually they start eating the humans and shit hits the fan.
Of course, this is real history here.
This is real, Derek.
And I need you to respect this.
You're being very disrespectful now.
Tone it down a little.
Okay.
There's one thing we do on Dave drinks is respect religion.
I will say, I will say this.
The very first time I heard about the Nephilim one, I had to Google it because I was like,
there's no freaking way.
But if you were to.
Sounds like a war hammer race.
If you were to take the story of the Nephilim and put Stephen King's name on it and publish it,
people would be like, this is his worst novel.
Right.
There are so many plot holes.
Yeah, there are.
There are problems.
In fact, scholars.
So I got the hermenea.
I got all these various scholars and I talked to Dr. Seth Alexander for an hour yesterday,
which is like a leading Hebrew Bible scholar.
Angels had horse coming in with the I need to see the verse.
I need to check that out.
I don't need to check that out.
Bring the bus.
I want to see the picture.
Yeah.
Okay.
The picture.
Picture didn't happen.
Yeah.
Verso didn't happen.
Kip.
Yeah.
If you don't show me the actual schlong, Kip.
Yeah.
Come on.
For a research purpose.
Yeah.
Only, clearly nothing.
I have no kink in me at all.
So what I was going to say is.
But seriously, the idea.
I was born for the cinema.
Nephilim giants go and consume humans.
And then there's another pack that sets up and says, you know what?
Let's teach them the more like the arts of the gods and like how to put makeup on,
which is a big no-no.
And all these other things from warfare to magic and astrology and things like that.
So scholars think that two different traditions about the fall of man
are being fused into one here and one Enoch in the earliest book.
They think there's two separate ones that are two different ideas.
And this is why you're like, this doesn't make sense.
What is going on in this story?
Even though it's completely historical and everything mentioned into it actually happened
as recorded.
Yeah.
It's just I'm having a hoot in this book.
Is there.
So because I have a religious family member who has actually purchased the book of Enoch.
Because like, even though it's not canon, they're like, there could be some good stuff in there.
So why didn't it make the canon?
Do you know why it didn't make the canon?
Or like why?
Netflix just didn't think it would do very well with audiences.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Honestly, I don't know the exact reason.
It wouldn't shock me if it was due to the fact that Enoch is seen as like a son of a son of man
who is seated at the right hand of God, who later takes on in Jewish lore the angel metatron.
And so there's just like evolution of there's competition going on amongst the Jews and and
whether or not this book is even good.
One of the rabbis, according to Seth El Sanders, he was saying actually condemns Enoch or seems to
like make a negative blow at him, saying that he died and did not get taken by God into the heavens.
I don't know how to take that because what I'm looking at here.
I've been I got my script together actually tonight.
I finished it.
What I'm looking at in this whole Enoch dies idea is that they're in the Septuagint.
It seems to imply like he transformed or might have been trans like he was transported,
which could be interpreted as the guy who dies and then is now like spiritually up here or
his spirit bodies with us up here.
So he could have died.
There's there's so many little wiggle rooms and interpretation amongst the Jews.
But I wonder if it was so too much, you know, is too much.
I don't know if that's one of the reasons they were like, no, let's not add this in.
So wonder because revelation is the same, right?
But is revelation that was not put in for other reasons, not because it was too weird, right?
Or was it because it was too weird?
Like, no, so there was arguments about revelations is too weird.
Revelation, the revelation.
Yeah, that one's too weird.
Let me tell you, there's a lot of weird shit that they included.
This is true.
And I guess it looks a lot like the Book of the Watchers has a lot in common with revelation.
Like the Ancient of Days or the the High Glorious One who seeded on the throne.
He's also described in the similar way that Jesus is in Revelation one,
where he's like, and his hair is white as wool, white as snow and brighter than the sun.
Same descriptions are being applied to God there.
But Enoch's the guy, Enoch's the mediator.
He is like Moses in a different tradition of Jewish lore, where he's the mediator between
heaven and earth.
Moses receives on a high mountain, meaning in the heavens,
he gets this revelation, he gives the law, and he has this like teaching of how they're supposed
to live and be and all that.
Enoch also is another ascender, I'll call him, that goes to heaven, gets the revelation,
brings it back down and conveys this knowledge to the people.
And yet, I'm wondering if there's this kind of competitiveness in Christendom,
in certain versions of Christianity where they're going, Enoch's too close to Jesus.
We got to get him out of the picture.
Let's just keep the Hebrew Genesis account and not get into the fan fiction of Enoch
and let him possibly overlap our Jesus.
It also could be that he's so similar in many ways that even like Paul talks about going to the
third heaven and having mystical experiences, strange kind of Enochian descriptions Paul's
using, and we know the New Testament quotes Enoch.
I just think that when we talk about canon, that's not for a few centuries later,
even for the Hebrew Bible.
So it was into the common era that you get a canon for either New Testament or Old Testament,
we call it.
And that's why it's like, whoa, what the heck, this is pretty interesting to dive into.
Yeah, you know, my favorite, I think, book that they didn't include is the one where
God came to the Shire and he asked Enoch, if Enoch was willing to go on a journey
with four other disciples and return the ring to heaven.
I knew you were getting to that.
Yeah, yeah, it's just, man, it's just, it's a really great story.
It's a really long book.
So I can see why they didn't put it in there.
It probably would have taken several, but.
You know, can we just give it a bit more?
Isn't there like a famous quote from there or something like, my precious or something?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And maybe they thought it was a little weird.
Maybe that's why they didn't include it.
They're like precious, that's news.
Precious, golem, something, something.
Dude, I try, I try to read.
Law the Rings, I found amazing, right?
But, but, but when I tried to read the Hobbit or listen to the Hobbit, man.
Why are you talking about fiction?
The Hobbit, let me just, let me just get this out.
Because like, it just literally, when it goes through like the naming of like the, the dwarves.
And because I can't skip it and can't, because it's audio, it's like,
and Dory and Florian flippity flew and blew it up, bum, bum.
And I was just like, I'm like, my brain was like splitting in two as I'm like listening to what I'm like.
And then Boris, it's like, it's like the book or the Bible with all the begotting,
where they're like, and so and so, begot, so and so, begot, so and so, begot.
So it's the same thing.
That's so exciting.
When I read it, it's just one of the best parts of the Bible to read.
Yeah.
Like the Gats, you know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They are.
Okay.
How do, what is your favorite way to, it's sort of pivot, but what's your favorite way
that you've heard about apologists try and mix the Luke genealogies and the Matthew genealogies
and still hold on to Bible and heresy?
Oh gosh, honestly, I've been so out of the loop on the gymnastics they perform
that I don't even remember.
I would strawman them if I tried to do it.
I don't even want to do it because I'd be probably misrepresenting the way they might do it.
And there are various ways in which they try.
I think Bart Ehrman just did one too, a course on Jesus' son of Joseph.
And he says like in one of the Gospels, it like explicitly says Jesus is Joseph's son.
Well, what happened to the virgin birth, dude, where God is Jesus' father and not Joseph?
Of course, one might go, you're taking that too literal.
Like he's just adopted him as a father or something.
But it seems only one of the books talks about, is it one?
No, Luke talks about the virgin birth as well.
So both birth narratives are dealing with that.
But Mark doesn't mention this and John doesn't mention anything about a virgin birth.
I guess it wasn't that important.
You know, to mention it.
But as far as the genealogies go, they contradict.
I would strawman trying to represent what the apologists say.
It's actually a real shame, I think, that Bart Ehrman has become like the ante.
Like he's become like a lot of people just say that he's like,
oh, this is Bart Ehrman.
Like he's just a corrupt or whatever, like a lot of Christians.
Christians talk about Bart Ehrman, like they talk about a human.
Oh, that's Chumian.
You know what I mean?
That's Bart Ehrman.
It's like it's quite sad because I think a lot of his stuff is,
well, I have no way to critique it, but it's like pretty on point, right?
Like it's like he's not saying anything outrageous.
Dude, you know, it's weird.
I interviewed him once and was like, what's the deal with this?
People who think you're just this really bad guy.
He goes, everything I'm saying to you, most everything he's saying.
He said his teacher, who was a very profound evangelical scholar,
but he was like a legit scholar, textual critic says all this stuff.
But because I say it and I'm not a Christian,
it gets so much trouble in like people stirred up and triggered.
And he's like, and I'm just repeating what most of the things I say come from my scholar.
Brutz Metzger is the name of his scholar, his, his, what do you call it?
Dr. Fodder.
And he is just repeating it.
And because it's coming from him, it's,
it's kind of a human thing.
I think tribalism that kicks in to us is like, this guy said it, but if she says it,
she better not say that misogyny can play a role in that as well.
Like there's all sorts of stuff that he says that's just common and may even be wrong in some ways
or not going far enough in my estimation.
For example, he did one on virgin births and in it he pretty much said that,
but Jesus is the only account of the, of a virgin birth.
There was no virgin births before Jesus in antiquity where a God impregnates a woman
not through sexual union.
And I had a little word because they believe in a virgin birth.
Dr. Fodder.
Who?
Brutz Metzger.
The Mayans, they're, I don't even know the myth.
Yeah, but it wouldn't shock me.
It really wouldn't shock me because there's so many myths out there that kind of like hinted
the most common things we experience all the time.
And they didn't even have to talk to each other to probably know some of this stuff.
But like M. David Littler who was a student of Bart says Bart's wrong.
Sorry.
And he quotes Plutarch to point out that it's, there's actually a virgin birth for Plato
where the Numa, the spirit of God impregnates the woman.
There's no sexual scene at all.
Because most of the time the God took on the shape of either a golden shower
or a snake slithered up and we know what happened.
You know, had sex with her and then boom, she impregnated with a demigod, a child of a God.
And that's usually Greek and Roman mythology.
But I don't know where we're going with this, but it's just fun to talk about.
No, it's super.
This is what Dirk calls me up about all the time and just like tells me random mythological facts.
So what's the crux, I guess, of your message with the documentary on Enoch?
Are you doing a bit of a critique of the book?
Are you trying to say it should be canon?
Are you like talking about it?
I'll just say like this.
I'm going to put you on the spot and it's totally okay if we don't know because honestly,
I've heard about Enoch a thousand times.
I even read some of it.
But even my first documentary, I never read it like the book of the watchers from start to finish.
Can you tell me what the book of the watchers is about, David?
The only thing that I can tell you is it sounds like the Watchtower magazine.
I was just about to say that.
I thought that's what it was about.
I literally thought that's what we were talking about.
I don't know.
I've heard nothing about it.
In fact, that's my point, right?
I've been looking at the Bible for a long time.
And if I asked you to tell me the story of the book of Enoch, one Enoch, the book of watchers,
let's just say, even the ones I've seen videos about Enoch on YouTube,
they don't do a good job of just kind of taking you through the book
to understand what they're doing with Enoch and what the book's about.
And it's an apocalyptic book about the God from the beginning.
It's dealing with the pre-flood, pretty much how sin kind of enters into the world
or at least becomes something that can't be reversed and needs to be destroyed.
And then it takes you through and explains the real history of these
giant, massive watchers having sex with little itty-bitty women
who end up having Nephilim and then giant children who cannibalize humanity
and then teach them secret arts about black magic and makeup.
Because makeup's probably the worst among all of these.
And then all these other things, you know?
And then it goes on.
Not the informants in the chat.
Absolutely.
Well, the Ethiopian version is like the complete text of Enoch.
And I'm taking it as scholars do book by book
and showing they weren't written at the same period.
It was like a rolling series of fan fiction about Enoch
because he only gets this little blip.
And Enoch walked with God.
He was righteous.
He lived 365 days, which is hint at probably the solar calendar
and the idea that there's 365 days in a year, a solar year.
And then it turns around and it goes further.
And then these angels or these watchers are like doing all this chaos.
And then four archangels come down and they say,
you guys done fucked up, Aeron.
Like they ain't no coming back.
And they're like, oh my gosh, we're sorry.
Then Enoch comes on behalf of God and says, look,
here's the deal, guys.
You're screwed.
And God's saying you're damned and you're not going to get restored.
And they're like begging him to write this account
with each of their names.
There's 200 of them, which he doesn't list them all, thankfully,
because that would have put me like, I don't know.
And their names are like, ha kasha, ha kasha.
I mean, like it's just really, really, I'm being.
Whoa, they're speaking in tongues.
Thank you.
They're just really, really long names and difficult.
And so he goes to God on a mountain in the land of Dan near a river,
which is south of Hebor, one of those names of the mountains.
Anyway, and he like cries out to Yahweh and he's like, hey, check it out.
Here's the deal, Bobby.
He's sorry for screwing 18 mortal women and producing Nephilim.
Billy, Billy said he's sorry as well.
And then he finally falls asleep because he's given this long list to Yahweh.
And in his sleep, he has a dream.
And then in the dream, Yahweh is like hail to the na, na, na, na.
And then he wakes up from the dream and then he goes to them and says like, hey,
I tried, you're done.
Like there is no hope for you.
You are absolutely damned.
The all merciful, all loving, all powerful God just doesn't have enough of that for you.
And then that's it.
They're going to be condemned and they know this.
And they're also, he says, like, I'm going to slaughter your children whom you love,
the offspring that you had.
And we're going to annihilate all of that.
But the righteous and is a constant hope for the righteous that one day all the battle will be
destroyed.
And then Enoch goes through this weir for like 15 chapters.
This journey, like you see in the book of Revelation, where the angel took me and showed
me this thing and then explained what the four trumpets were.
And it's honestly boring.
But there's details in it that are kind of cool that it hints at like,
and this tree that's smelt like no other tree.
I can't describe its smell.
It's so beautiful.
The fragrance, that was the tree of wisdom whom the holy ones eat from to get wisdom
and all this weird stuff's going on.
And so I want people to know that.
So when someone says, hey, here's the book of the watchers, which is in one Enoch,
you can actually say, I know what the hell it's talking about and a little bit of
scholarship behind it.
But then you might want to know what I like to know.
What myths influenced the myth of Enoch?
And that's what I love the most.
And that's where you get into the myth of Adapa.
And that's an ancient Mesopotamian myth where Aya, depending on if you're talking about
Babylonian or Sumerian, Inky or Aya, end up pretty much having a son in some accounts.
So Adapa is either the son of Aya or just someone who loves worshiping this God is out
there fishing one day and gets blown over, capsized in the boat and it kind of describes
it like he's kind of drowning.
So he's pissed off and he uses his powerful magic that he learned from Aya and breaks
the South wind's wings.
What's interesting is in Enoch, the wings, the wind have wings and they're like,
it's hard to describe, but it sounds like real things, like beings or places.
It's not like we think of just directions.
It's much more than that.
And the same happened in ancient Mesopotamia.
Holy s**t.
Neil, thank you for the little super check.
Congrats on 100 Enoch trying to ask God to forgive a Zazzle.
And God threatened to kill Enoch for even daring to ask that question lol.
I love the lol.
Oh my gosh.
Azazel.
Dude, the Azazel myth we know from the whole like sacrificing the sheep and the goats and
like having the two, there's two goats and one of them goes and wanders in the wilderness,
which is the place of Azazel, like a desolate place.
And it's a rocky place too.
So, you know the Noah's Flood movie where the watchers are rocks?
They're like giant rocks.
If you ever watched the latest Noah's movies.
Is that with Emma Watson?
Who's the guy from Gladiator?
Yeah, that's the Emma Watson one then.
Yeah.
Okay, Hamanee.
Russell Crowe and...
Yeah, Russell Crowe.
Yeah, that comes from the Enoch lore and so that's impacted the Noah's Flood because it
just retells the Noah's Flood in a different way.
I guess what I was getting at is Adapa curses the wing, breaks the wing of the south wind.
Anu's not happy.
He's pissed and he says like, who the hell did this?
So, he calls for Adapa to come up and before he does, A is like, pssh, A.
He's going to offer you some food.
It's poisoned.
Don't eat it or drink it.
It's going to kill you.
He goes up and they first thing they're offering and once he gets through the gates with,
it looks like Ishtar or Inanna and Demusid gets through the gates.
There's Anu and he says, hey, would you like some food and drink of immortality?
And he's like, no thanks, buddy.
We know what you're trying to do here.
And then Anu's like, what the hell's wrong with?
Why did A trick you?
You could have had immortality.
It was really the food and drink of immortality.
So, why the hell did you do that?
No, gateway drug just takes one.
Just takes one.
And he just said, no, Ronald Reagan style.
And so, next thing you know, he leaves heaven.
He did put on some oil in a garment and he has the knowledge of the gods,
but he doesn't get to live forever like the gods.
One of the things that Joshua Bowen and other syriologists and stuff would say is,
the reason Aya tricked him was for humanity's good.
Aya, inky, depending on the myth, cares about humanity the same way Prometheus does from
the Greek myth.
He knows the floods coming.
Hey, guys, the gods are about to fuck you up.
You know, like, he's letting them know things that the gods are saying,
don't tell the mortals, and this goes on and on.
Prometheus gets fire from Zeus's thunderbolt, sneaks it down and teaches the humans how to
use fire and also forge metals and things like that.
That's what was condemned in the whole Enoch myth that we read about in the book of the Watchers.
These kind of things are condemned, but they're actually positive things in Mesopotamia
and in the Greek mythology.
So, I love this stuff.
Yeah, well, you know, I'm tired of him talking.
I'm out of this.
I was going to say, I am utterly shocked to find out that you are a fan of myths.
I never would have guessed.
David didn't tell me.
I feel like that's something that he could have shared.
I'm just shocked.
Myth vision.
Myth vision.
Yeah, but you know, let's be honest.
I don't get it.
I don't understand.
You're jealous about the fact that I have the name myth vision.
Let's just be honest.
Gosh.
That is actually a super dope name.
I'm not even going to lie.
Like, that's really cool.
Thank you.
So, I sent this image to Derek.
Like, I was just sitting, Amy was out shopping and I was sitting there reading
ancient magic from Greece and Rome, which is a random book I bought.
And what I've learned since reading like, what, like 28 pages of this is like,
it sounds like the Bible.
Like, it's all just the same.
When you start reading other myths and like ideas and stuff, it's all fucking the same.
Like, I used to think the Bible was like special.
And it is.
The Bible is special for various reasons, but it's like, regarding like, you know,
Jonah and the whale and like, you know, Noah, like all these stories.
It's like, they're just like, it's Neil and Haystack.
There's a million of them.
And they're all amazing for their own way, you know, own reasons.
Like, there was this, what was the part I sent you, Derek?
It was like talking to the dead.
And it gave you, you know, the open opens the book by saying,
to ask a question of a corpse, take a leaf of flax and on it write the 12 letters,
A-Z-E-L-S-B-A-L-E-M-A-C-H star.
The ink must be made from red orca juice of a fresh wormwood, burnt mirth,
and evergreen needles and flax, right?
As instructed and put it on the tongue and put it inside the corpse's mouth and like, close it.
Okay.
Really, really strong opener for a book.
Let me tell you, like, that book looks like something, David, that is going to haunt your home.
I'm just going to be honest.
Like, you just read it out loud and I feel like your family is not going to fare well in a couple of weeks.
Dude, I read that and then it talks about the fact that, like, that, like, people aren't dead forever.
So, like, you've got to do it quickly because they're in the underworld, like, you know,
going through the, like, the dark underworld and then until they reach the river of forgetfulness or
something. I don't know. I didn't, like, I don't remember.
You don't remember?
I don't remember. Exactly.
You don't remember your policy.
Yeah, I was going to say, I feel like you just cursed everyone in this entire...
Sorry, sorry.
I shouldn't, I shouldn't read out magic.
They were just instructions. I didn't do the magic.
But Stacy's Month Podcast, thank you so much for the $27, $900 Canadian Super Chat.
That's C.A. That's, that's cool.
Congrats on having a kick-ass show, sending love to you.
Amy and Atlas, our chosen Aussie family.
Oh, they, I think you're, well, you're my chosen Canadian family and Kipson there as well somewhere
and whoever else who comes in the show who's Canadian, but love you guys a lot.
Well, I just, I get to wrap up the, wrap up the myth stuff.
I love the myth because the myth helped me find freedom and it was finding out it wasn't
actual history that really helped me to loosen up the literalness and the strict rigorous,
I mean, really, really dense, what we would call in Christianity, conservative scholarship,
conservative Christianity, the reform tradition, the Protestants, you know,
the Bible interprets the Bible and we had this weird bubble around it.
And then when I started realizing, whoa, that didn't happen and that didn't happen.
And that's most likely mythology.
And there were other interpretations that made better sense.
It made me realize like, why do I have this book on this, this pedestal for me?
And then I started going, maybe God's bigger and it was like the famous quote,
since you had people bringing a, you want people to bring a quote.
I'm going to, I'm going to end up having to do this before I go.
I really hope Derek reads one of his own quotes.
I really hope he just, it's not my own quote.
This is my favorite quote.
Yeah.
This is like one of my top, like help me when I was still a believer,
but I was coming through this like men brought in your perspective kind of approach philosophy.
The blind men and the elephant, we've all heard it, but I think it's worth
mentioning and because this one hit me hard is John Godfrey sacks.
It was six men of Hindu stand to learning much inclined who went to see the elephant,
though all of them were blind, that each by observation might satisfy the mind.
How would they observe with their, when they're blind, they're going to have to feel
the first approach, the elephant and happening to fall against his broad and sturdy side at
once began to ball, bless me.
It seems the elephant is very like a wall.
The second filling of his tusk cried, Oh, what have we here?
So very round and smooth and sharp to me to smite clear.
This wonder of an elephant is very like a spear.
The third approach, the animal and happening to take the squirming trunk within his hands,
then boldly up and spake, I see, quote, he, the elephant is very like a snake.
The fourth reached down an eager hand and felt about the knee.
What most this wondrous beast is like is mighty plain, quote, he,
to clear enough, the elephant is very like a tree.
The fifth, who chanced to touch the ear, said, I am the blindest man,
can tell what this resembles most deny the fact who can.
This marvel of an elephant is very like a fan.
The six no sooner had begun about the beast to grow, then seizing on the swinging tail that
fell within a scope, I see, quote, he, the elephant is very like a rope.
And so these men of Hindu stand disputed loud and long,
each in his own opinion, exceeding stiff and strong.
Though each was partly in the right and all were in the wrong.
So often theologic wars, the disputed I wean,
rel on and utter ignorance of what each other mean and prayed about an elephant.
Not one of them has seen.
And that quote is the heezy for sheezy.
Okay. Yeah. Yes. Yeah.
That was beautiful.
That was you should have like a separate podcast where you just read children's books out loud.
I'd listen to it.
Really?
Yeah. Yeah.
I would listen to like the giving tree or something like that.
I'd listen to it.
Right. The giving. Yeah. The giving tree.
Yeah. That's beautiful.
Thank you.
And then there's another character who's like touching the ground and he's like,
I don't know what the fuck any of y'all are talking about.
This is like grass.
Yeah. It's actually super frustrating.
I helped Neil edit one of his documentaries and Neil's like,
you know, in the beginning of time, I can't even do it, but his voice was like,
his voice is like deep and good.
And then like I try to record on my, yeah.
So Australian accent and then called Sid.
And this is like, fuck.
So the elephant.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And called Sid.
He'll be loyal.
She's a beauty.
Yeah.
You brought up Lilith.
There's a demon from Aspartamia that was a male demon that got turned into a,
obviously, I think it's a male.
It might be, it's a demon that goes after infants.
And it was like an L word, not Lilith, but in English it's something and it watches over
pregnant women to help them with the newborns, not die.
And so that evolved into the Jewish world or Judean world where Lilith,
because they're not misogynistic whatsoever.
And this was not a patriarchal system that Lilith ended up becoming the demon who killed
all newborns who, who didn't end up surviving.
Also like the men, because this is not again, like I repeat, not misogynistic, not patriarchal.
The men just so happened to be the ones who actually make the child.
The women are just kind of the ovens that you put the seed in and you plant it and you know,
you come back and make sure that your kid was born.
Yeah, that's kind of Bible language.
And when a woman couldn't bear, you know, like Rachel,
Leah, Leah actually could bear Rachel, Rebecca, look at Samson's mom,
which they don't even name her because they're so non misogynistic that the husband gets named
Minoa and it's his wife.
That's how non misogynistic.
That's all you need to know.
Huh?
That's all you need to know.
That's all you need to know about it.
That's all you need to know is coming.
She's the wife of Minoa, duh.
And when they can't have kids, they usually think it's a female demon
that's keeping them from having kids.
And if the man's seed is not fertile, that's also a female demon's fault.
Yep.
So as long as we know that it's not misogynistic and the apologists are right,
then we're good.
Okay.
Also, there's also an entirely separate narrative where Lilith is Adam's first wife.
And God is displeased with Lilith because she's too,
she's got too many opinions and she's got too many thoughts and feelings.
So he's like, I know what I'm going to do.
I'm just going to introduce a second wife into this scenario
because that's not going to be a problem whatsoever.
And then he created Eve.
And then Lilith was like really upset about it.
So then she became a demon.
Yeah.
I heard that the reason, you're absolutely right.
Like the one example that I remember someone mentioning,
and I need to read the source myself, was that she wanted to be on top
when they were doing the do.
And he, you know, that's a no-go.
You know, you can ask.
It's so weird.
And like what?
Like, I'd not to get into my preferences, but like, I like when I'm even top.
They was like a woman on top.
That's impossible.
What are they talking about?
That could never be fun.
You know what's funny is I say to, I wonder actually that goes back to like dominating.
Like I'm the like, it's like an ownership thing.
Like I'm fucking you.
You're not fucking me.
Yes, that's the point.
That's the point.
And I used to think as a Christian, like I used to literally go so far as to wonder
if like doggy style might be a sin.
And like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
But like, if I really knew the ancient context, in fact, I thought missionary was the way to go.
Like that I'd still cheated and did the things I wasn't supposed to do like doggy style.
But you know, like, I would, she'd be on top.
And if I actually knew that that was wrong, that was wrong.
Even that was wrong, according to the ancients.
I've seen so many times it's not even funny.
I don't know if you're familiar with Girl Defined, their channel, but they're actually
offering a course right now on biblically appropriate sex with your husband.
Highly recommend it.
I learned so much.
I didn't take a course.
I did not take it.
But there's apparently, I swear, it's where this is real.
It's on Instagram right now.
There's apparently God honoring ways to have sex with your husband.
And they, if you pay for their course, they will teach you the God honoring ways.
Is there a God honoring way to do bud stuff?
That's, that's my biggest question.
That matters.
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
Wait, there's other kind of stuff.
Yeah, there's other stuff, the mouth stuff, hand stuff.
What are you talking about, David?
It's vagina stuff.
I'm confused, you guys.
And then you just, we open a can of worms.
Yeah.
Well, it's actually a perfect time to be talking about sexist stuff, because we have
the two of the sexiest hosts of a podcast ever about to join the stream.
And we're going to bring them on.
And Derek, if you need to bounce, you totally bounce.
I just want to say, can you loop me?
Just because I know that you've got family commitments.
And like, you know, he's going to go to his butt stuff.
I'm going to go, go Google Bud stuff.
Yeah.
Go Google Bud stuff.
Send me what you find.
I'll be waiting.
Absolutely.
Okay.
And with that, so you really know what I'm talking about.
Let's bring in the duo host of the century.
Okay, guys, it's time to really subscribe to deep drinks.
If you haven't already, 70% of you aren't subscribed.
Seventy.
That's wild.
Okay.
But appreciate it.
You know, you just, just hit the subscribe button.
It would be really cool.
Hey, welcome to D and Stacy from the mom's podcast.
Yeah.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Stacey.
Hey.
Welcome.
Welcome.
Stacey.
Hey.
Hi, guys.
It's so great to see you guys.
I literally thought of this concept while I was watching you guys have someone on.
You guys, I think, I don't know if you guys all had a buzz or something,
but you guys were like, everyone was having a good time on your podcast.
And I can't remember.
And I was like, this is amazing.
I was commenting.
I was like, this is amazing.
This is such a good time.
What are you guys drinking?
And that's the first question I have.
What do you have, Stacy?
Oh, I feel well.
So what do you have?
I've been sick all day.
Thank God for, not God, but thanks someone for makeup, Sephora.
I pray that you'll regress, Tyson.
And like, yeah.
And Sephora gods.
I'm drinking bubbly water because.
Bubl, we're Canadian.
Bubl water.
Yeah, I bought a bottle of wine, especially for this, but there is no way.
You'll just make it make it so much worse.
That's right.
I'm drinking, I'm drinking for everyone else.
And I'm like serious about this.
Like, I've got.
She has wine.
Yeah.
Oh, hey, I'm drinking San Giovis from Italy.
Beautiful, beautiful.
And I didn't drink for the last couple of days
because I knew I'd be drinking tonight.
So it's the same for me.
That's not why I'm sick.
It's not.
I'm just drinking water because we got a tornado going on over here.
So just in case we need to hide in the closet.
I'm not drunk to protect the fam.
That's why I'm drinking.
This is my first time ever experiencing tornado warning.
Welcome to Tornado Alley.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
You know that the dinner you were supposed to go to last night,
if you'd come, I would have met you.
Oh, you were there?
Why aren't I in Nashville?
Yeah, I had to.
I got to meet Elliot.
Oh, yeah, I had to finish.
So I just wrapped up grad school
and there were a couple of changes I need to make on my thesis project.
So.
Okay, whatever.
She actually messaged me and she's like,
she's like, I heard stay there and I'm not going to come.
Yeah.
A lot of people were there, right?
Like everybody was here.
There was a lot of people there.
And we're not the super cool.
Someone actually said.
Us two down.
I recognize you.
To me.
To you guys.
We're up here.
You guys are on the same side of the world.
I'm bringing you guys down.
Yeah, you hang out.
You can drive over and probably make the podcast
at each other's house.
Like it's this.
Yeah, yeah, probably so.
That's awesome.
I was wondering who I was going to be there,
but I just that was the only time I would have to work on it
the rest of the weekend.
And so I was like, I don't want to make it happen.
And Stacy's coming in February.
So.
Yes.
Oh, sick.
Yes.
It's going to happen.
Are you bringing the kids or are you?
No.
You know, since having kids,
like since since having a kid, Atlas,
it's just like a kid.
I love him so much when I'm not around him.
I just think about him.
I look at like I went up the beach the other weekend.
No reception.
I was just looking through photos of Atlas.
And I was like, I love him so much.
But then when I'm with him, I'm like, I need a break.
I need a break so bad.
So bad.
I need to get away.
Like, yeah.
We'll get to the point when you're away.
You don't look at pictures.
You will be like, you need a break.
You need.
So then you start a podcast.
Is that what happens when you get to that point?
Oh, no.
I know it.
No, actually, I never went through that, actually.
You don't need me.
No.
That's funny.
Yeah.
I don't have any.
I just have parrots, but I relate to the feeling.
But you can't put your head in the cage and care.
Cover it up.
I don't think.
I don't know how Australia.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I wish.
I cry.
And it's so annoying when you put them in the cage
because they're like, it's the bars are cold.
And you're like,
what you do is you just just change their toys around
just distracted by changing their toys around.
And he should stop crying.
Yeah.
I've given.
I'll give an endless my phone.
And he's he's like deleted content contacts.
He's called people like he just like he does this
with his fingers.
He's 10 months and he just delete stuff.
But we're running out of time.
OK, next year some before bub bub.
All right.
So I asked both of you guys to bring a quote.
And for those who don't know, the Stacy's one podcast,
coolest podcast, go check it out.
Besides growing up funny, both equally cool.
Shout out everyone.
But it's great.
It's great.
Go check out the Stacy's one podcast.
It's nearly a thousand subscribers, right?
Like you're getting there.
Like it's you don't have that many yet.
We're at seven.
Yeah.
We're we're we're clawing our way when you get to a thousand.
I'm pretty sure I'm subscribed.
But let me make sure that I am.
Because I'm on the floor.
I'm everywhere I did back in the inception.
Let's let's go over to 34 people watching right now.
Let's see if we can boost these numbers up a little bit.
Eight hundred.
We will get there.
We will get there.
But what you guys deserve it because your podcast is like
it's fun to watch.
It's it's it's not it's not super heavy.
It's not super like that's not as we're not.
It's also a substance and and there's also another bitch
who's running a Stacy's one podcast with 21 subscribers.
But she's been there for like six years.
So come on.
She's got her name wrong.
So yeah.
But some bit.
So subscribe.
Thank you.
Was that just no I was already subbed.
I already said yeah.
So we've got the six months.
So six seven hundred and sixty six.
I'm going to check back at that in a little bit.
And hopefully awesome.
And hopefully we can we can boost that number a little bit.
Just a subscribe doesn't take much.
And you see my little messages subscribe.
You've got to subscribe.
Anyway, I know I love that.
Let's start with let's start with Stacy.
You've got a quote or an idea or a concept that means a lot to you around religion.
I mean if if you've seen me on other interviews you're probably like oh my
God she's sharing this quote again.
But it's the most impactful quote that has ever changed the trajectory of my life.
So I'm going to share it again because that's what I do.
So hang on.
What I might do is I might ask both of you to share your quotes
and then we'll just have like a general conversation.
So perfect okay.
Yeah hers is short mine is long.
Yeah mine is short.
Yeah okay so I'll just say it.
Okay so life is a spark between two identical voids.
The darkness before birth and the one after death.
And that's by Irvindy Yalam.
Oh that's awesome.
Can you chuck that in the comments?
I'll bring it up.
That's I love that.
I've always loved that quote when you first talked to me.
My mums will be way too long.
Okay in the comments so you know.
Let's go.
I don't know anything about copying and pasting.
No I'm kidding.
No I think it's too long.
Yeah it would be way too long.
It went like yeah it went long.
Let me let me explain.
So I actually needed my memory bank aka Staysay to remind me of this.
Because I was like I need a quote.
I need a quote and she said okay I will help you.
And she did because and this is something that affected me profoundly.
And I just have a really terrible memory.
I really do and it's actually because I was born to a teenage mom
who suffered tremendously giving birth to me.
And it actually affected my memory.
Wow.
Yeah so there are certain things I have to do over and over and over and over again
for it to stay in my memory.
But when Staysay brought this back to me she sent me this.
She goes here's your quote and I read it and it brought tears to my eyes.
And then I went oh my god.
And she goes yeah you saw this lady on Neil the 604 atheist.
You sent me this quote and you said it made you cry.
And I said I'm crying again.
It's like I heard it for the first time all over again.
And that's honestly guys that's exactly how my memory is.
Real quick I can be watching a movie with Staysay and be like this is the best movie
ever.
And she's like we saw it July 27th 1999.
You wore a red dress with white shoes.
You ate popcorn I ate M&Ms.
I'll be like oh my god I've never seen this movie before in my life.
And she goes yes you have.
So this is honestly how my brain is and this is how her brain is.
So thank Staysay for reminding me about this.
But when she reminded me I was like oh my god because I love this woman.
I saw her on Neil the 604 atheist.
Okay here's my quote.
And I want to preface this with before I finally accepted just came out as atheist.
I used to have to go to bed at night with every light in the house on.
I was scared of the dark.
I was scared of demons around every corner.
I was just petrified and I left lights on in case I had to get up in the night to get a drink of
water or and I usually get up at three or four in the morning so the house is dark.
Staysay and Brian would come and stay over and Brian would go to bed and say all the lights are
on and Staysay's like yeah I know my mom's afraid of the dark right.
And it was because I was literally afraid of demons and yeah serious.
Okay so here's the quote.
When I became convinced that the universe is natural that all the ghosts and gods are myths.
They're entered into my brain into my soul into every drop of my blood.
The sense the feeling the joy of freedom.
The walls of my prison crumbled and fell.
The dungeon was flooded with light and all the bolts and bars and manacles became dust.
I was no longer a servant or surf or a slave.
There was for me no more master in all the wide world not even in infinite space.
I was free free to think to express my thoughts free to live my own ideal free to live for myself
and those I loved free to use all my own faculties all my senses free to spread imaginations wings.
Free to investigate to guess and dream and hope free to judge and determine for myself
free to reject all ignorant and cruel creeds all the inspired books that savages have produced
and all the barbarious legends of the past free from popes and priests free from the called and
the set apart free from the sanctified mistakes and holy lies free from the fear of eternal pain
free from the winged monsters of the night free from the devils ghosts and gods for the first
time I was free there were no prohibited places in all the realms of thought no air no space where
fancy could not spread her painted wings no chains for my limbs no lashes for my back no fires for
my flesh no masters frown or threat no following and other steps no need to bow or cringe or crawl
or utter lying words I was free I stood erect and fearlessly joyously faced all worlds and that was
by Robert J. Ingersoll Robert J. Ingersoll yeah okay and it was Glenda Jordan who I saw on Neil
show and she quoted that and I was a fucking puddle on the floor by the time she was done it was like
someone was in my brain oh Robert J. Ingersoll I've got goosebumps oh he wrote this book
some mistakes of Moses and it is like not popular enough like it was you know he's
oh but like well if that came out of his brain I need to read that book oh he's it's just that is
so beautiful that is so beautiful that is such a that gave me goosebumps that is like isn't that just
oh my god yeah there's no god oh my Neil deGrasse Tyson thank you for giving me this scientific
method no and when Stacy when Stacy sent it to me I was reading it like for the first time again
because the first time she read it so I didn't get to see it in all its glory so I was reading it
going oh my god and then Stacy reminded me she said you saw Glenda Jordan on Neil's show at
the beginning of the year and she shared it and you messaged me and when she shared it you said
it brought you to tears I went back to her episode read the transcript to find it for you oh that's
what my daughter does for me she's my memory you two are so we're two pieces of pod yes one day I
want to like go drink oh we're gonna hug you we should all get dinner without David we should
put them on FaceTime we'll have them on FaceTime at the table with us yeah I'll be over here you
know like it's funny like in the pre in the pre message group we're talking about like organizing
this group and and you guys were like oh there's a tornado we're like trying to like you know
batten down the hatches and all that stuff and I'm like what pizza do I want for when I'm really
I sent him a picture of our sky like literally rolling in black and he sent me a picture of
just like the sun shining the birds tweeting yeah yeah that's different yeah okay I'm gonna
I'm gonna be right back I didn't really need to go to the toilet I'm not going to last
he's gonna go you're here Sydney yes good thing I'm here to professionally lead us forward
every time I say I have to go to the washroom Dave says to me the restroom no everything I say
that's Canadian the whole time he's correcting me we we say parkade he's like what the fuck is
the parkade I'm like will you park cars it's a parking garage like well that's not what we call it
well and to be fair Dave and I are from the same area in Arkansas that's not even American
that's just southern country people oh my god that's just everything I say he's correcting me
and the other day I said I really want to get some Nashville t-shirts and post them to my grandson's
he's like you post things on facebook you mail things from the post office I go then why is it
called the fucking post office Dave huh brother and sister we are like you why is it called a
bathroom when there's usually not a bath in it unless I said that I said that to him I came back
from the washroom and I went you know what's interesting I was able to wash my hands I wasn't
able to rest there was no sofa for me to lay down on and there was no bath and it's like off
yeah yeah we found out that he went to the rival high school to mine so every once in a while I
have to remind myself I'm like he's he's the enemy he's not a friend yeah yeah but whenever I just
wanted to stop talking I just put my hand over his face so what is what is something if you had to
I'm so glad I got you here Sydney
if you had been there that would have been really weird if you just left you guys sitting here
oh what is something different in say uh evangelical or maybe there's a different word for it in
Canada what's the a different experience that you've learned from very strictly religious people in
Canada versus America is there a big difference or well I was at a dinner last night that you were
supposed to be at I'm sorry sorry guys my next drink is loggable and loggable and 16 I'm drinking
a whiskey okay all right um this lady told us last night that uh she was married to someone
who was Christian and she wrecked him as far as her in-laws were concerned and now he's atheist
but when she was a teenager she went to stay with some Pentecostals and I went oh well that's what
I was raised oh my god no not the same in the south nope the lady was like okay it's Wednesday
we're going to church and she was like I beg your pardon yeah we're going to church and she goes um
okay and then the the lady said to her are you going to wash your face and she went no and she
goes you're gonna wear makeup and she said yes and then um then she said to her well are you
going to wear those pants and the and the lady goes well either these are my shorts that's all
oh oh no heavens no we have to go to Walmart and she said she bought her three full length denim
skirts yes for the whole time she was there welcome and she was there two weeks she was there for two
weeks so she went to church obviously oh I love the balloons where they come from where did that happen
I was weird wait did that happen on the other stream that happened on another stream that you were
you were yes yes it did happen I think it's like got something to do with your Elgato like
app or something when they were with Pete did I say a magic word or something you probably did
all the denim skirts but anyway I went I'm sitting there going oh no oh no no no no no
yeah that's not Pentecostal in Canada no Canada and and I'm gonna say this when I was still a
little religious kid and I went to Canada I went to an Anglican church and maybe I don't I don't
want a stereotype I don't know if all Anglicans are like this but it was the very first time I'd
ever heard the preacher say the word fuck in the pulpit oh I can't even believe you I was shocked
so he was like giving a sermon and everyone was you know nodding along as you do and then he's
like and I told him fuck you Satan I said go fuck yourself and my mom my poor mom
I was probably 13 and I was in Vancouver we were we would have been we so we took a road
trip from Niagara Falls up through I want to say we were I don't know you're in Ontario probably
I was gonna say we went to Ontario and then we went to Montreal oh yeah we lived there for a while
I was gonna say but I don't remember what order we went to those places in but it was in the beginning
of the trip yeah and and everybody was just like amen amen and we could not believe it I'd never
heard such yeah I'm still shocked yeah we we wouldn't have heard that but Anglican we never
thought they were really safe I was gonna say are they even christians no no they're fake christians
they're like the Methodists because we all know they're real ones and fake ones yes yep it's I
I did you guys believe that the Catholic Church was real like a catholic church but it weren't
going to have to compute what I'm saying I'm drunk but like they were not saved no they were not
yeah we were the only ones who were saved we were the chosen ones we could never figure it out
because
that's what's going on okay I'm gonna leave myself over here because I'm looking this way
and it's triggering me and I'm not looking this way so I'm not trying to be like this is just
like calm down you're gonna make me vomit yeah I have but that's it's super interesting though
the Pentecostals are so different in Canada than in America I'm not surprised at all and I was like
that sounds more like Amish to me because yeah oh you should see our Amish
you need to go on an Amish tour like it was very conspiratory yeah yeah like the like
Pentecostals here are so strict that like I can literally spot them in public
by fiance Vince did not grow up religious and I'll be like look over there those are Pentecostals
and he's like how do you know and I'm like look at the hair look at the skirts and he's like
you're right oh my gosh and so now it's not to the point where like he'll he'll point at people
and be like are those Pentecostals and I'm like they are great job Pentecostals in Canada have
big hair the women have big hair and the like it's like picture I don't know like Texas
yeah so I know that American Pentecostals they're not allowed to grow there they're not allowed
to cut their hair if they're women because the idea is that they take that hair to heaven with
them to wash the feet of Jesus in the afterlife which I'm like they are his feet well and I'm also
like you can take your hair but you can't take anything else like I can take my hair but I can't
take my birds like I don't understand what I can't take I don't know um but that's the idea and let
me just let me just actually I need to get this in as well as Sydney you got engaged just recently
so congratulations thank you but you and like half an hour later you still jumped on a live
stream because you're like no I'm committed to my live stream I just got engaged but like that's
awesome yeah I was I got engaged but I still had to do the skeptic haven live stream I didn't want
to leave him hanging I was one of the co-hosts so I got engaged very surprised did not know what's
gonna happen and then but he's used to that he's very used to that he's used to like oh so he's
gotta get on the internet again and talk about it's kind of like my husband yep it's on brand
yep very on brand there was a point when I was doing a lot and he's just like so what shows you
have this week what's your schedule I feel like so I have it on the fridge but yep exactly supportive
yeah yeah it was a good time it was a good day that's awesome
so typing so what um so regarding your quotes Stacey does it still does this like bring you
peace yeah um in thinking like that essentially when we die there's nothing does that like
like the the concept behind that do you do you find relief in like that it could just be
it's just over and like the life is precious for what we have
like I kind of like when someone asked me when this is how I talk about it but when someone says
like where do we go when we die I say we probably go to the same place a flame goes when you blow
out a candle it's just like no one thinks like where does the flame go well the flame's not there
like yeah that's so true um when I was start like in the middle of deconstructing not really
I guess not really realizing that's what I was doing but I was getting closer and closer to
like going off that cliff but I was like oh too far I'm gonna go to hell so I'm scared um
and my husband he he wasn't like really a Christian or anything but he supported me and
being a Christian um and so I was like he was a really safe person for me to talk to about all
these questions I was having and um just one morning he just came upstairs to heat up his
coffee and I like hounded him in the kitchen I was just my brain was just going like a million
miles an hour I was just like oh my gosh if I keep if I keep digging and pulling at this thread
it's all gonna come apart but if I'm wrong I'm gonna go to hell and ah and he was just like
he could not compute someone actually believing in a literal hell like he's just like I don't
think there's a hell but I was like but I do and I'm so scared because that's like the one sin
that you can't be forgiven for is blasphemy of the Holy Spirit and I'm like being blasphemous right now
and so he was like making his way back down the stairs to get back to work and he was um at the
landing and he's like oh you know what maybe this will help you I don't know but I saw this quote on
Twitter this morning and he's like let me just grab my phone so we pulled out his phone and he
went through his feet and found it and he just read it to me um standing there and it was like
this epiphany happened where I was in the part of that quote that made the most like just got me as
wait there I have no concept of a life before I was born I have no recollection if we have been
a part of God's plan since the foundations of the earth the beginning of time why don't I have
any kind of memory or sensation of of my life or or being with God or something before being
born and it was just like in that moment I was just like Brian you have no idea what you just did for
me um holy crap okay and I I just realized this is the only life we have I don't think there's a
hell I and it just that was one my belief and that fear of hell just completely was just gone in a
moment um have you um yeah oh sorry I didn't know I was gonna ask if you've ever been under anesthesia
before yes yeah and I think we might have talked about that because I have been and it's like
you're just it's like in four seconds it happens just like boom boom boom and you're out and
you have no idea you don't even dream at least I don't right right that was the first time I ever
had an idea of true nothingness yeah I couldn't quite imagine it or describe it but once you're
put under anesthesia and you truly understand what it is to be off to not exist because I think
even when you say nothing to a Christian they think or they say so you're just like staring
into a black abyss you're like no that's still something you're still applying something in
consciousness and it's even less of a thing than that yeah definitely a big thing that I always I
often like people say like what so you just think we came from nothing oh I don't I don't even know
what like I I've asked them like can you describe nothing like just what do we even have an example
anywhere of nothing like what is nothing like I don't even understand what you mean by fucking
nothing like people like well you know the big bang you know everything was it's like yeah but
that was like a small infinitely dense point that's still something and there's obviously
like there were things going on that like created that to kind of expand you know we don't we don't
have answers to all this stuff but it's like that I I used to say this I used to say oh yeah Atheism
that believes that nothing collide with nothing to create like everything and it's just like
that's not what that's not what it means at all I think we had such a misconception misconception
of what being an atheist was what a non-believer was they were so looked down on they looked like
they're filthy rags and like all just all that lingo and it's it worked for such a long time
yep it really really works so nothing to live for it because I'm like oh my god I have I feel
like I have more to live for now than I did as a Christian um obviously I still have my my kids
and my husband and my family and those were important to me then they're still important to
me now but I just feel like this life is so precious and I just had that realization um after
hearing that quote and then no longer being a Christian and and not living like I'm living
forever I'm gonna go to heaven and I'm gonna have eternity it's like okay this is gonna end I don't
know when and I just have I just felt like it was so fragile and like such a gift and yeah
and I ended up putting that quote on my phone as my as my wallpaper for like two or three months
just like where my stuff like it's all gonna be okay yeah yeah and I also think there's
there's a sadness in thinking about how some people are so focused on the afterlife that
they don't even know for sure is coming that they don't enjoy their only life because that's what
makes me sad is there there one it concerns me when I'm like when people ask if you're an atheist
why don't you you know rape, murder, steal and I'm like if that's the only thing keeping you
from raping and murdering and stealing is the fact that God exists please stay a Christian please
it's it's it's like I love what Ricky Gervais says it's like I do rape and murder and steal as much
as I want to which is not at all well actually I do steal I do steal I steal a little bit from
Woolworth's the shopping sale because they stole six years of my life and also they
recording record profits while it while price gouging everyone so like I think it's fine to
steal from Woolworth's you said you heard it here first deep drinks podcast steal from Woolworth's
okay there's their shopping centers in Australia the headlines tomorrow it's easy I'm not talking
about like I'm not talking about like armed robbery I'm talking about like scanning some you know
some mushrooms as if they're onions you know like yeah well and I think I think there's one
too much but also too I think it's really sad when somebody's sitting there going the next life
is going to be great the next life is going to be great and their current life is passing them by
and all they can talk about is how the next life is going to be great we were so guilty of that
you can make both lives great you can make both of them great you don't have to save all the fun
stuff for later you can make both of them you can have a good time now and then also if you have
that afterlife have that good life you won't have one so please have fun now please but unless it
involves raping and murdering and pillaging and stealing yeah don't do that but like I think Matt
Delhonte said it great he said uh using this life as a doormat to wipe your feet on to walk into the
afterlife that's essentially like I see it in so many of my friends and family it's like it's like
they kind of like their life is the church and they sacrifice so much for the church they get
they do get a lot from the church they get community and a bunch of other things but
but it's like when I love church even when some friends who are still in church
like kind of deconstructed their faith a little bit they're like man I want to like travel I want
to like date people I want to like do I want to like have like enjoy life not just like drugs and
sex and money and well you know like what you'd imagine like a deconstructing christian does but
like like I became like much more interested in like animals you know and like I care about animals
or I care about you know like it's just it became important to me to enjoy this life that we have
because I wanted to try pot so oh yeah yeah so Stacy tell us that story that's a great story
sorry which one which one you just outed yourself I wanted to try meth no oh god no
you want to try pot right it's underrated I'm from Arkansas just trust me underrated
overrated whatever I'm from Arkansas I don't know the difference
but so you tried pop for the first time how old were you when you tried pot for the first time
38 oh wow wait you're older than 38 wait she's nearly 40 I had no idea when we when I come to
Nashville it'll be for my 40th birthday in too much I had no idea I assumed you were like maybe
three years older than me how old you are but thank you um I mean Sydney Sydney sorry yeah 32
I just turned 32 like two weeks yeah yeah this is like this is kind of bullshit like you guys
all look younger than you are like they like how old are you again today I've forgotten but I was
fucking blown away how are you yeah I was 60 in March that's nuts like you guys have good genes
like yeah thanks to the Murphy side of the family not the McFarlane's I'm not even gonna apologize to
my mother which is funny because Seth McFarlane is like he looks like a 12 year old in like a
60 year old body so that's a Murphy in there somewhere yeah but um yeah so you tried pot for
the first time was it like did you like deconstruct and knew like I'm gonna try some pot like were
you yeah I was like literally did she okay she was okay I was there she asked her husband permission
and you yeah and me we were in the same room she's like can I try pot and I'm like I don't care
actually I actually went to the dispensary and got some gummies for them one time it's legal in
Canada guys it's legal yeah yeah yeah I have a plan you know yeah there's a deal of a dog
it's completely legal and I was like hey it's legal I want to try because I because she was
such a good teenager oh my god this child was good like all her friends are partying she's
hanging out with me like watching friends yeah I called I called Stacey at like two in the morning
one night it was like one in the morning like it was one in the morning and like it would like
having a deep and meaningful Brian like is there for a while he leaves the room and then I'm just
hearing her like yeah because she was high she's like I'm eating crackers
and I was like
so good I love this we were on the phone for so long I was like oh my god at 2 30 in the morning I got
a good one yeah yeah yeah yeah that's what have you um have you have either one of you ever tried
shrooms no no Sydney has an amazing shroom story can you we got we got three minutes the next
guest can you quickly long story short shrooms I went so long story short I was a republican
christian tried shrooms woke up a liberal atheist to the end that's literally what happened like
my brain was like here's a question and I was like shrooms apparently a really long time ago
yeah I was like that's a really great question I should write that down and then my brain was
like here's another really good question and I was like these are really good questions and my
brain's like yeah girl you don't like what are you doing you don't believe in god what's your
like come on like this isn't come on like yeah and then the next morning you need to be on our show
yes and you need to be on my show if I have yes I feel yes I've been meaning to reach out to you
me too yeah and I just I guess I just haven't gotten around to it like I want you guys on my show
okay and same same sees okay cool yeah and now that I know D that you're close enough to like
eat drink be merry and I'm gonna invite you over because you I have a whole year yeah yeah
mary lied mary lied um who's that comedian who said what's harder what's easier to believe
that a that the the messiah was conceived of a virgin from god or that a 16 year old lied
and you're like oh my god I don't know and I we heard she was as young as 13 too so that
was even grosser that I believe 100% you know in Arkansas it's pretty normal though I'm gonna
be honest with you yeah look at Loretta Lynn where was she come yeah is there some sites where
like people get married at like 16 but the parents permission and stuff that's that's kind of yeah
yeah I think Tennessee well I got married at 17 so there's that wild up there in Canada wild
yeah it's cold okay I know buddies you're just wrapping the that's probably that's marriage in
Canada isn't you just get in the same sleeping bag that's like and then you're married as long as
you're there for two years that's legal yeah that's great oh my god
sour you know I don't actually have it I don't know where it's going
no no no this is something else a video that I was going to show I don't have it but I've got the
other one but it's kind of a segue I've got the segue clip all right let's let's play the
segue clip we'll bring in the next guest are you guys staying on are you guys jumping
stay on for a bit or what do you feel Stace I think I can stay on for a little bit
awesome okay well I'll stay till 9 15 and then I need to get out there and check on Dave
yeah no what time is that now it's 15 minutes okay cool all right let's bring in the next guest
let's go
subscribe
welcome dr kill oh my god
oh my god now I see it
subscribe everyone yes Hanukkah Samach one and all oh my goodness this is an awesome
Yesterday was Hanukkah, so more like my special my special
are you Jewish? No, I am not Jewish. I am a Jewish nationalist.
But guys, oh, hang on a sec. I'm gonna this this just feels
wrong. This just feels wrong. Let me I found the clip. Okay,
let me just let me just quickly show the Kip Davis introduction,
which is the old old version of David Bowman. You just show it.
Let's just we need to see.
Oh my god.
That's so good. That's a Christian band. And that's the best Christian band.
You bosses are going to pay by Christian band. That's sick.
Which Christian band? Trouble. They were they were big in the in the late 70s and the in the 1980s.
Oh my god. Yeah, and they used to they used to sell that at my local Christian bookstore.
So is it okay? Did your did your Christian bookstore have like recommendations?
Like if you like Britney Spears, you'd love like Castle of Queens or whatever,
like their Christian answer to and it was nothing. It was nothing at all the same.
They just didn't want you to listen to secular music.
Pretty much, pretty much. So at my my my best friend worked at at our local Christian bookstore.
So I got I got a heads up on all the all the great new stuff at our Christian bookstore as well.
In addition to to Trouble, they carried Kansas because lead guitarist lead singer.
No, I know not lead lead guitarist of Kansas, Kerry Livgren actually became a born again Christian
and released a solo project in the 1980s. So that was that was enough for for for the local shop to
to start selling Kansas. Yeah, they're still going to hell, but we'll sell their music anyway.
Yeah, exactly. So David, so I have to say and congratulations on your 200 cheers to that.
Yeah, one 104 skins. We're getting up to 200. We will get to 200.
Oh, we got we got over 200 up. Yeah, yeah. So there's actually, I think you've been on since
like I was canceled. It's like to like destroy your channel. Yeah. Yeah, no, I know. So and I
missed you very obviously to like you always bring I don't even care about your scholarship.
Your scholarship is amazing. But the drinks that you bring the drinks that you bring
what are you drinking today? It's not so exciting this evening. I'm drinking
an eggnog latte. Well, that's cool. Actually sounds really good. But I also because it's you
man and because we're celebrating your your four skins, I decided that I would I would finish the
bottle tonight. Oh, there we go. I got that for your stream. I know. I know. Make it from the
barrel. That's my next pour. I've got some tasty beers down there. But when I start to feel dizzy,
I'll get on to the beers. But and I've got check this out. Look how much water I bring.
Oh, yeah. Good plan. Are you are you streaming in a diaper?
I've had a bathroom break already. So you've actually got something very special
for us today. And it's it's a bit of a it's a bit of a bit different. We're all premier.
We're making a joke that Derek was going to quote himself. But you're quoting yourself. But
but it's like a world premiere of a book, right? Yes. Cool. Yes. Let's do you know what? I'm going
to find a figure out a way to like make you the the. There you go. There we go. And I'll remove
that ever poor poor Sidney's face. And you can give us like the can tell us a little bit about
the book and then jump into it. I made an online course with with Derek Lambert
called Israelite religions facts on the ground and propaganda in the Bible.
And this this sort of happened in while we were while I was in Washington State filming the course.
I was talking to Josh on the phone and I told him I'm like I've got like, you know,
120 pages of notes. There's like over 60,000 words here. He's like,
why don't you just write a book? And I'm like, why don't I just write a book? So that's what
I'm doing now. I've I've gone back and and started reworking all of my course notes into
into a book. But it's it's essentially meant for a total rewrite. It's expanded and there's a
whole bunch of additional material in there. But I thought that because it's all I'm thinking about
right now, I thought I would I thought I would I would share. So if you if you will allow me
to break into story time, I'm going to read the introduction to to chapter four.
And what is your book titled at the moment? Because the working title is presently propaganda
and rituals, religions of ancient Israel in the Bible. Oh, juicy. The title. Yeah. So the title of
chapter four is the map is the place. I had about 30 minutes before catching my flight. So I wandered
into a new stand in the International Departures Lounge at YVR, the Vancouver International
Airport. It was October 2006. And I just recently started my PhD at the University of Manchester
with a young family at home. It was impossible to make the full time move to the UK. So I traveled
back and forth for extended periods of supervision with my advisor, the holder of the Rylans Chair
of Biblical Criticism and Exegesis, Professor George J. Brooke. Young PhD students don't often
have a lot of expendable cash, even less so with three small children to feed. I was just browsing,
but the cover of Jan Martel's Life of Pi caught my eye. The 2002 winner of the Man Booker Prize
had been recommended to me some months earlier by a colleague in the department where I taught.
So facing down yet another transcontinental transatlantic flight in a couple of nights of
sleepless jet lag, I justified the 24 Canadian dollars spent and exorbitant expense in my world.
I can't say that Martel's novel changed my life, but as a budding Biblical scholar, it certainly
changed my perspective and it has helped to shape my outlook on reading ancient literature ever since.
Most people are much more familiar with the popular film adaptation in 2012. While the film is
excellent and beautifully made, it also lacks the philosophical density that made such an
important contribution to my intellectual journey through this novel. If you're unfamiliar with it,
then I apologize for the many spoilers ahead. Life of Pi is the story of a young Indian boy,
Pi Patel, whose father owns a zoo but circumstances in India in the 1970s prompt the Patel family to
immigrate to Canada. They sell the zoo animals to interested parties in North America and board
a Japanese cargo ship along with them as caretakers in exchange for their transport. On the journey
through the Indian Ocean, the ship is caught in a fierce typhoon. It begins to take on water,
chaos erupts on board, and is exacerbated by the presence of dozens of large zoo animals.
Language and cultural barriers rendered impossible communication between the Indian animal caretakers
and the predominantly Southeast Asian crew. The ship is tossed violently through the sea and
eventually sinks with every soul still left on board. Pi Patel is the lone survivor.
Pi has lost his entire family in the disaster and discovers himself stranded in a lifeboat
with a lame zebra that had fallen from the ship into the craft. He is alarmed by the presence
also on the boat of a hungry hyena which proves to be a constant and dangerous nuisance.
The next day he rescues an orangutan from a floating cluster of bananas that he knows
from the zoo. This well-trained and empathetic primate is affectionately called orange juice
and Pi is consoled and relieved by her companionship. After some days, the hyena kills first, the zebra,
and then when the orangutan holds her ground between the hyena and Pi, the hyena kills the
orangutan. Pi is enraged by this, believing he's left alone in the lifeboat with the famished,
dangerous animal that he has just killed his friend, but then is a start to discover another
passenger in the dinghy bath until this moment had been cowering under the taut tarpaulin,
a 200 kilogram Bengal tiger named Richard Parker. So for 227 days, Pi and Richard Parker are alone
on a 10 meter life raft adrift in the Pacific Ocean. After a devastating near-miss of rescue by a
distant passing freighter, the harrowing of ordeal of survival at sea with a man-eating tiger and a
strange discovery of a carnivorous island populated by nothing but meerkats, Pi ends up washing a
shore on the coast of Mexico. Richard Parker disappears into the jungle and Pi is rescued
by locals. The novel is narrated by the author who meets Pi as an adult. Pi has promised him a
story that will make him, the author, believe in God. The first third of the book is about
Pi's idyllic childhood and his quizzical pursuit of religion. After plumbing the depths of the
three prominent faiths in his native India, he resolves to be simultaneously a Hindu,
a Christian, and a Muslim. At one point in the narrative during Pi's religious journey,
he struggles to come to grips with the brutality of Christianity's central tenant. The crucifixion
of the Christ, Jesus, is a story of horror that he cannot reconcile. While expressing his frustration
with the divine violence to a local priest, he asks him for another story, one that he can better
understand. The priest cannot provide one. The author who has been listening to Pi's own account
of his astonishing ordeal at sea, likewise has a difficult time making sense of the story of
his survival. It sounds simply too fantastic to be true and this brings the elaborate tale to a
jarring climax. After Pi's rescue, the Japanese shipping company who owned the fated freighter
called the Tsimsum had sent insurance investigators to speak to the lone survivor of the shipwreck
They likewise found the truth of his story beyond belief. Pi retrieves a copy of the report they
wrote, including a transcript of their interview, and hands it over to the author. In the transcript,
the investigators are incredulous about Pi's account. I know what you want. You want a story
that won't surprise you, that will confirm what you already know, that won't make you see higher
or further or differently. You want a flat story and a mobile story. You want a dry,
you want dry, yeastless factuality. You want a story without animals. Yes, without tigers or
orangutans. That's right, without hyenas or zebras, without them, without meerkats or monguses. We
don't want them without giraffes or hippopotamuses. We will plug our ears with our fingers. So I'm right.
You want a story without animals. We want a story without animals that will explain the syncing
of the Tsimsum. In the film adaptation, the investigators ask for a story that won't make
us look like fools, a simpler story for our report, one our company can understand,
a story we can all believe. So Pi tells them another story. Now, it would be inappropriate for me to
reveal anything about what Pi said to the investigators, the simpler story that lies
behind his horrifically traumatic ordeal at the high seas between the Indian and the Pacific Oceans.
You're just going to have to read the book for yourself, as you should, dear reader,
to discover what prompted the young man to invent such a fantastic tale
to compensate for the nightmare of what actually happened. In the film after Pi has revealed the
contents of the report to the author, he asks him this question. I told you two stories about what
happened on the ocean. Neither explains what caused the syncing of the ship, and no one can prove
which story is true and which one is not. In both stories, the ship sinks, my family dies,
and I suffer. So which story do you prefer? Which story do you prefer? Which story is true?
In the novel, when the Japanese investigators tell Pi that they prefer the story with the tiger,
he responds, so it goes with God. At one point in their investigation, he says to them,
don't bully me with your politeness. Love is hard to believe. Ask any lover. Life is hard
to believe. Ask any scientist. God is hard to believe. Ask any believer. What is your problem
with hard to believe? In the end, the report filed by the investigator reads, the story of
sole survivor, Mr. Piscine Molitor Patel, Indian citizen, is an astounding story of courage and
endurance in the face of extraordinarily difficult and tragic circumstances. In the experience of
this investigator, his story is unparalleled in the history of shipwrecks. Very few castaways
can claim to have survived so long at sea as Mr. Patel and none in the company of an adult Bengal
tiger. So the topic of this chapter, the final chapter in this background section, the name of
this section is called the known world. The topic of this chapter is the Hebrew Bible,
the Old Testament. At this point, you were undoubtedly puzzled, what on earth does
Yamartel's novel have to do with this book? What does it have to do with the Hebrew Bible?
Before delving into the finer details, in our study of Israelite religions,
it is necessary to cover some points about the Hebrew Bible and view of the three crucial
assumptions of historical criticism that we touched on in the last chapter. First,
ancient texts are best understood when they are set within their own culture and language and
against a relevant religious, political and economic backdrop. Second, when we read history,
we assume that the same causes and effects which govern our world have also been active at all times
and in all places. Third, when reading ancient accounts of history, our analyses should start
from a skeptical disposition. We are fortunate to have access to huge amounts of archaeological
and historical data from other contemporary cultures which help us to understand better
the religions of ancient Israel. While there are important material discoveries in Israel and
Palestine that increase our knowledge of this topic, the Hebrew Bible remains the best resource.
But this is problematic, since, as we have already come to see, many of the Hebrew Bible texts are
late embellishments which do not clearly and accurately describe the real world
that we discover through archaeology. The comparative data are extremely useful for contextualizing
much of what is in the Bible. But, much like Pai Patel's story of his actual ordeal at sea,
the biblical texts are an idealized lens through which we see mostly distortions.
Our temptation at the outset is to make this hard distinction between myth and truth.
The Bible can't be true for its fantasy, talking animals, divine encounters,
unexplainable natural phenomena, errors of fact and history. We are like the Japanese
insurance investigators in life of Pai, but even they manage to grasp the intrinsic value
in Pai's tale of Richard Parker. Take another look at the final sentence in their report.
Very few castaways can claim to have survived so long at sea as Mr. Patel
and none in the company of an adult Bengal tiger. None. There is no acceptance of his
invented story as anything more than it is. A coping mechanism to help him grapple with
the tragic reality. No one has survived so long at sea in the company of an adult
Bengal tiger, no one, including Mr. Pai Patel. But for Pai, the tiger is real,
because it helps him to make sense of what he endured. To come to grips with his own regrettable
part in a survival at all cost predicament, it's just a better story. For Pai, for the
writers of the Hebrew Bible, the map is the place. Wow. I can't wait to read that
because that is incredible. Thank you. And just as all that happened, my beautiful wife
popped into the room, so she's been here to join us with our little son.
Unfortunately, he didn't... Let's see the real star. There we go.
Oh, thank you. Cut this. I just had a nice time. I grabbed you something a little bit
celebratory. Oh, okay. Two seconds. We'll get back to your book in a sec. I didn't know this was
happening. This is fun. Kim, have you ever heard about Kurt Vonnegut and his...
Oh, there's a book by Kurt Vonnegut. It's one of my favorites, but the title is escaping me
right now about the optometrist who becomes unstuck in time. I can't believe I forgot the
title of this movie. I talk about this book. I talk about it all the time. But it was revealed
that that story, Slaughterhouse 5, it was revealed that that story was his coping mechanism on how
to talk about the bombing of Dresden. And that's like what I was thinking about when you were
talking about coping mechanisms and how you can invent this story in order to
cope with your part in horrible things. And I just wasn't sure if you'd ever heard
that about Slaughterhouse 5 or if you'd ever read Slaughterhouse 5.
Yeah, I had heard that. And I'm pretty sure I read Slaughterhouse 5 in high school.
Yeah. That's when I last read it too, I think. It's been a long time. Yeah.
So, but it's, I mean, this is so I, you already had Derek from MythVision on talking about
first Enoch. And his entire YouTube channel is sort of geared in this direction. But this is
something that I often find is a driver in my own work and in my own life. And that is that
while I no longer believe the Bible as the word of God, there is still a, what's the word I'm
looking for? There is a level of truth in the text if you understand how to approach it within
an ancient cultural perspective. The temptation for, in particular the temptation for atheists,
for activists online, is to just keep jabbing away at the text of the Bible
to show how stupid it is, how worthless it is. Maybe one of the, one of the more wonderful
things about coming to the point where you no longer have to believe everything in there
is then coming to understand how valuable these texts not only were, but still can be.
From a metaphorical perspective, yeah, from like an Aesop's Fables perspective,
there's a lot to be learned there. I try to tell people that all the time. I'm like,
no, I don't think they're true stories, but I understand what they're trying to tell me through
that story. And I've always thought that the Bible was supposed to be Aesop's Fables. And then
somewhere along the line, what we now know as an evangelical went, no, no, it's all true. And
everyone was like, no, Bob, I don't think it's all, and he's like, no, it's all true. And I'm
starting my own church. And then like, he was just so forceful about it, nobody told him he was
wrong. And now we have Christianity. I always thought that it was like a storybook that was
supposed to teach us things that just got way out of hand, way out of hand. And now here we are,
you know, here we are. Hold on one second, David, I just want to take a moment to thank Patrick
for $99.99. Thank you, Patrick. You are the bomb. And then also Aaron Adair.
I don't want to miss out a chance to shout them out.
And thank you for shouting out the family. Amy actually just brought me in something,
and I've been eyeing it off since she did. But is it a gift? Is it a gift? Is it for me?
It is just to celebrate episode 100. Something very special.
Oh, my God. How did you feel that we didn't have money for this?
Take my choice. Wow. With the likes of Patrick and Aaron, you do.
Oh, my gosh. It's not focusing. Next focus. There it is.
Wow. That's amazing. Wow. Beautiful. Thank you. That's so nice. That wasn't plain.
I didn't know that. Congrats, Ben. Oh, thank you. Wow. I don't know where we had the budget for
this, but thank you so much. Oh, and we've got a sugar cookie business. And did you save up for
this? Guys, I just love you all. This is just really great.
And thank you for being quiet while we talk to Dr. Kip. That's why I gave him a cracker.
Oh, thank you. Wow. Well, sorry to hijack your thought. No, this was important.
So, Dr. Kip, when does your book come out? Or is it still in the process?
Well, I'm working on it, right? So, I have, it's, you know, it's a bear back.
I think it's like, it's like 17 chapters and I've finished. I've gotten through four so far.
That's awesome. Wow. That's awesome. My hope. How many books do you have at this point?
I looked it up once. So, I have written, I have, I published my dissertation, which is up there.
What was your dissertation on? It was, I worked on the Densey Scrolls and
I particularly, this was pretty fun. I particularly focused on a text that I'm sure nobody's ever
heard of before called the Apocryphon of Jeremiah, which is, it's like a new,
a different sort of version of stories about Jeremiah. Parts of it are very similar to the
Bible. It's really fragmentary. So, you know, there's lots of debate and discussion and that was
a substantial part of my work was piecing together how I think all the pieces fit.
But then within this, this, this text, there's one part where Jeremiah basically goes
into a, an apocalyptic vision or prophecy, very similar to like what you would read
in the book of Daniel, but, you know, much more narrowly focused on the, those terrible
Hasmonean priests, the Hasmonean priesthood. The neat thing about the Apocryphon of Jeremiah
is that it survives in like five, five separate copies. And there are, there are textual differences
that you can track between all the copies. And the second part of, of my work in these
manuscripts was then trying to decide, trying to discern, you know, the development of this text
in a fairly short period of time. We're talking about less than a hundred years.
And then to see how other texts were then using the same sorts of ideas, you can, you can trace it
by, by looking at, at just the structure and the language that then gets repeated in, in other
texts. It was, it was interesting. Were any of the differences like glaring, you know, how like in
some translations of the Bible, it's like, no, we hate gay people. And in others, it's like, no,
they just meant pedophiles. Like, are there any, where you're just like, wow, that's a totally
different book. Yeah. Well, so one of the things that happens, the most, what I think is the latest
version of this text is actually pretty dramatically different. And it's, it's completely restructured
this end times prophecy, which originally had had a focus on, I have to see if I can get this right
here. It had its focus on, on this very corrupt priesthood. And then, you know, the, the presumably,
the, it sort of breaks off at the end, but presumably, the writers and the collectors of
the Dead Sea Scrolls are the heroes of the story who kind of come in as the righteous generation at
the end. But then what you see in, in the reworking is, is like a shift of the focus
onto even a narrower segment of the group. So it's no longer just, you know, this, this community.
It's now, this group that we're going to identify as the, the, the, yeah, the Bene Hasedak, the, the
sons of Tzadok. So one version is like, they're not that important. And the other version is like,
you should worship these people. So sort of, it's, it's like, it's like narrowing the, the chosen
ones, right? Interesting. Of course, you're not supposed to worship any of them. You're only
supposed to worship Yahweh, right? But, but yeah, it's, and what, yeah, one of the other interesting
differences too is that, you know, there's this, within the book of Daniel, there is this
490 year prophecy in, in Daniel chapter nine. It's divided into various periods of time,
according to Jubilees. Within the, the, the older version, it's, it's calculated this,
according, it's, it's worked through the first 390 years. And then the last 100 years in the
revised version, it's, it's, it's the same period of time, but then it's reorganized everything
to, to focus on different elements within the history that that is trying to narrate. And this
is, so I'll just say this at the outset. So this is part of what within early Judaism was very,
very popular. This type of literature that we call apocalyptic literature stems from an apocalyptic
worldview. We tend to think of, of apocalyptic as, as future telling, but in actual fact,
an apocalyptic worldview and apocalyptic texts have a lot more to do with actual history
than they do the future. So they're all, one of the common features is that they pretend to have
been written in the distant past. You know, the book of Daniel, the, the visions of Daniel were
written in the mid second century, but they all pretend like they were, you know, written by Daniel,
looking forward, which is why they're so precise, right? But we see the same thing in, in the book
of Enoch, you see the same thing in the book of Jubilees, you see the same thing in, in the apocryphon
of Jeremiah, Jeremiah was looking forward, right? So, but within all these texts, it's all about
the idea within an apocalyptic worldview is that God controls everything.
He's mapped out all of time from the very beginning to the very end. And it's all part
of this very elaborate plan. So God is always in control. And we're, even though things suck
right now, relax. This is part of the plan. And in very, very soon, the end is coming.
And God's going to, God's going to proclaim victory. Interesting. And it's a book of revelation,
right? I was going to say, and you said it was 491 years old. And how long are we supposed to wait?
Oh, so the, I mean, the text itself. So is that what you're asking? Or like the, the, when it was
written and they, they surmised that he was coming back soon. Right. So I should say to you, the 490
years is a, is a way of calculating from the time of the Babylonian exile up to the point when,
you know, the writers believe that the last days are coming and the kingdom of God is established.
So that's the important feature. Most of these texts come from around 150 BC.
I was going to say, if you ask the man who is down on the corner in my neighbourhood every day,
every day, if you ask the guy with the little, the little sign out there, every single day.
I love that you describe him like he's just like, oh yeah, we know that guy. Like he's the,
the guy with the sign. Yeah. I feel like we all do know that guy in a weird way.
Yeah, we do. We do. If it's, if it's the guy I'm thinking of, yeah.
Okay. So we're going to bring on our next guest. But feel free to stay everyone and let's bring on,
he is beast, brainy, handsome, ripped. And we're about to bring him on. Let's do this.
I thought I told you to subscribe.
You can subscribe. You can subscribe. You can subscribe. You can subscribe.
Hey, Dr. Ben. Welcome. Dr. Ben. How's it going? What do you do?
I worked today. It was Friday, I guess. I don't know what day or year it is anymore.
Wait, it doesn't matter. It's your Friday. Is this your Friday?
Yes. I'm off. Surprisingly, I'm off for the next three days, which is like unheard of
in residency ever. Like I've been working like 70 to 80 hour weeks on the regular. So
it's, it's been absolute chaos. Yeah, it's.
Do you feel like you've aged a lot in the last like year or so?
Probably. I don't, I don't even know anymore. Like I don't, I don't know what is happening.
I've like dissociated from reality and now I'm back into the world of people and it's weird.
It's, it's a weird time. It's a good time, but a weird time.
I'm going to move this around because it's triggering me again. We get to be on the,
why isn't it working? Dr. Ben, are you on days or nights right now?
I'm on the emergency department. So I'm at their, I'm at their mercy, but it's actually,
you know, it's hilarious when the emergency department is like a break from what I have
been doing, which that's, I mean, you ask anybody in residency, like, and it's always going to be
your own service is going to be the worst because the expectations are the highest from your own
faculty and your own peers. And like, because that's what you're trying, like what you're
learning to do, right? So anytime I'm in family medicine, it's very high stakes. Anytime I'm on
the medicine floor run by family medicine, high stakes. Anytime I'm on pediatrics, high stakes.
Anytime I'm on labor and delivery, high stakes, because those are all things that I'm going to
be doing actively all the time. But then emergency department, it's like very low stakes.
Interesting. Yeah, it's just because like, that's not going to be my job. Right. Whereas if I was
an emergency medicine resident, that would be very high stakes because that's the job, like,
that's your own faculty and your own program. So it's like, yeah, so it's like, I'm not saying
that emergency medicine is easy. I'm not saying that it's an, it's an easy thing to do. But
the standard for me as family medicine is not the same as an emergency medicine resident,
whereas like, if they came to family medicine, they would be off service. So it's like, we know
that that's not your skill set. Yeah, it's like, we know it's not your skill set. You're not trying
to make this your skill set. So it's, you're judged differently. So what you're saying is,
I should not go to the emergency room. I should just book with my family doctor.
Well, I think, unless you're dying, you should, that is what you should do.
But yeah, I think there's a lot of like, unfair criticism going around to all different
fields. And it's just, it's just very, very different skill sets. Like something,
especially in family medicine that is very highly judged, is your ability to be
versatile and handle like, anything that comes at you, because we treat anything that's not
surgical. Basically it is our wheelhouse. But if you cannot communicate well,
like just get out of family medicine, like we are judged so highly on communication,
everybody should be. But like, we're the most, us and psychiatry are probably the most highly
judged on our communication skills. Interesting. And well, because, because a lot of it's rapport
building and it's long term care. And if you can't provide that environment for people,
then you're kind of useless in family medicine. And I feel bad because before the stream started,
I was telling David about how I was going to fire my doctor, who's a family practice
gentleman, because he's a terrible communicator. And you should. And you should do that. Because
yeah, that's the expectation that you are going into family medicine and you're going to be
a good communicator. That is part of the benchmark. Yeah, I've already chosen.
I've already like held back from calling you because I've got a bit of hypochondria about like
a rash or like my friends, my friends can call me as long as they know I'm not giving you actual
advice. What if it's like, what if it's like, what if it's like I need like my prostate check,
can I be like checking it myself and be describing when I'm feeling like this is a bit,
it's a bit solid here. It's a bit long. I mean, it's weird, but I would
I'd also give you the evidence that says you don't need to do that. So
okay. Awesome. Awesome. Don't send him a picture because that's a crime. Don't do that. Please
don't. Please don't. That's weird. I do get people that send me weird pictures. I'm like, you know,
it's fine, but it's yeah. I'm not always in the mindset to be doing medicine. For you,
I will say that's not fine. That is unacceptable. Don't do that. Don't contact your future.
Don't please don't. No, it's there. Okay. So I guess this is a rant that I'll go on and
this is probably actually relevant to everybody else here. Your rants are the best. So I'm here
for it. Well, okay. And I love this. Let me just let me just I promise I'm not here to bitch. So
I'll let me just let me just put a pin on this. You said you don't remember what you're talking
about in the group chat. Is this what you're talking about? Or are we got a section like if
you got something to talk about as well because like I don't know did I have I just don't remember
if I was given an assigned topic or if I'm just oh I just said bring a quote or a like you've been
working a lot like bring a quote or an idea or a concept that means something to you. We're doing
Ben's. We're doing Ben's rants tonight. I love it. Ben's rants are great. Let's okay. So here's my
topic of the night then and it is parasocial relationships and the internet atheist community
because okay and I'm going to sound very harsh but I'm also very tired. So I love I love everybody
in our community. I love you all. I love having interactions in the side chats like I love I
love having the space for that and like when when I have the spoons or when anybody here has the
spoons it's great like we'll often take ourselves into side chat and we'll start engaging with
people. We'll reach out to people and want to have those discussions or if we're on a show
where it's an appropriate time to have those discussions we love that. However there's a
frequent issue with people where they'll send emails or they'll send private messages outside
of a show context and I'm sure I'm sure our our PhDs in the community also deal with this like
they'll get questions that expect you to provide like hours of work or like resources and all of
this to answer that people could probably Google and we're not saying that we don't want to do
things like that and I'm sure it ends up becoming a lot of work for us because we want to help out
but at the same time like that's a lot of time and a lot of energy spending that we probably don't
need to do so like probably the better the better thing to do if you have a question that you really
want somebody on a show to answer is either a like if there's a show that they're on where you
can call in that's a great option if you can super chat a question that's a great way because if you
can compensate them for the time that they're giving like for the work or like you know finding a
way to ask them the question and say like hey could you do it like would you want to do a show about
this question and let them create their own space to do it and address it for multiple people at
the same time that's probably a better way to do it as well if they know it's a high demand topic
and they get multiple messages like saying like hey I would you consider doing a show on this
maybe they'll do that and then at least they can get the benefit of growing their channel and answering
it for multiple people but I just like want to extend that thought of like
try to be careful about overstepping the boundary between chat and like content creators because
it can be a lot of work so you're saying that David should dedicate an episode of his podcast
to his prostate and if he does that well you'll join and you'll answer I'm just saying yeah
no but like oftentimes it's David's my number to be a public thing versus like yeah because
namely a big one that I get is that people will message me privately about some transfer but
they're trying to debunk on Twitter or something oh yes I don't want to have that conversation
in private like because I think that if I'm going to if I'm going to be having this discussion
it's going to be where everybody is held accountable and where all of my efforts are going to be
noticed outside of this conversation yes like valuable yeah I actually refuse to have like
debates with people online unless it's like a live stream because I don't want what I've noticed or
recorded doesn't matter but like what I've noticed is when I want to have conversations with like
my friends on Facebook and they would argue with me their their claims were so outrageous and insane
and as soon as I bring them into a setting where they would be accountable for their actions like
when when like oh hang on let's let's like people can look back at what you said all of a sudden
their text becomes super reasonable it becomes super like like calm and collected and it's like
and it's super frustrating so I don't want to waste my time with that I don't have time to be arguing
with the randoms online when I can like when there needs to be some like uh some responsibility
around those things but but also like I get a lot of random messages as well but my messages
I'm usually happy when someone messages me and says like you know hey Dave I love your podcast
I'm like hey like thank you thank you so much I really appreciate that but what I've noticed and
tell me if you guys have gotten any of this it's like the fifth eye of Jupiter and the angel of
Saturn just told me that the owl of the moonlight has just like you know like and you're like oh my
god like someone who's like clearly going through like a psychotic religious episode who's like
messaging you like to tell you about that the the end of the world is coming or like that you
know Joe Biden is really the antichrist or something or just like something like random
like that and you're like oh man I just I just like just like northern or like screenshot yeah I don't
get those I I mostly get transphobes um of people telling me that if I just knew Jesus I wouldn't
be trans um or I get people that are are honestly like good people that are part of our community
that just have overstepped in a debate themselves and don't know where to go with it and so then
they tag me in um which I don't often have the energy for currently yeah um or or or I'll get
some and and like and I I open myself up to like my friends with like medical questions because like
I I know you like and if I know you and we know that we have a like a friendly relationship where
you know that I'm not gonna give you like advice that I think is gonna be harmful um it's like if
I have people that I don't know at all and have like never met asking me like medical advice about
themselves or their families and like I honestly cannot give a good answer because like I don't
I don't know you yeah and like I can't make any assessment at all whatsoever
like the only thing I can say is talk to your doctor because it's not me and like that's all
honestly the only thing I can say as it's just a very weird it's a very weird boundary and I and
I guess like for for the audience kind of where I'm getting out with this like even if like we've
had interactions inside chat it's like there's a very set time we put into our schedule to do that
and then outside of that energy level to oftentimes just need to be left alone yes and then and then
we go back to our scheduled time that we've set aside for that effort yeah now I gotta be honest
with you guys I have I'm used to like for 15 years getting feedback and messages about my stand up
I would much prefer the questions you guys are talking about than the shit people say to female
comedians on the internet I'm just gonna be like ever since I've been so funny like literally
ever posting atheist content I've gotten nothing but the nicest most welcoming most inviting
messages to the point where I was like suspicious at first I was like why is everybody meeting so
nice like why is nobody calling me a horror in the comments I don't understand how this is going
um so I can't relate to people asking my opinion on things because they just don't but I will say
I much prefer getting those like the stars are aligning and things like that messages than like
to end my own life because I'm a female comic I don't know it's maybe it's a different experience
like anything that I used to get on reddit and have like multiple notifications it was not
going to be a good day now it is now it's a great day say my my experience is deserving in a different
direction um because I spend so much time uh working with uh with the bible and with uh with
with you know uh uh breaking out and and and revealing the the very human non-divine side of
the bible and also because uh within my own within my own work with um with like uh Jewish
antiquities uh with uh with with forgeries antiquity forgeries and with antiquity markets
a lot of my work tends to be very highly critical of the state of israel and how they
have politicized so much of the archaeology so lots of the people who who gravitate to my channel
know you know it's it's yucky but yeah there's unfortunately a high number of like white supremacists
and and neo-nazis and and guys who will who will will drop stuff on on my channel thinking I'm
you know right right there in there oh no it's gross it's terrible yes oh no that would be
rough where they're like you know you know how it is and you're like no I don't know how it is
yeah you know how they are that's what are you talking about please please unsubscribe yeah yeah
there's so many it's it's ridiculous there's so many people I remember I used to do uh street
of pessimology on amegal before when amegal was a thing and I ran into this guy who informed me that
like the jewish people were the synagogue of satan and the um and that the bible was written
about four four and about white people and Adam and Eve were the first white people and everyone
else was a mongrel race and the worst part about street of pessimology is you don't push back so I'm
sitting there going okay okay like slight little nods the whole time like okay so if I was to show
you evidence that I guess the bible wasn't written about white people four white people would that
change your mind like that's like that's as far as I can go with pushing back and um but uh but yeah
it was and then that eventually I put that video out and um some people gave some critiques on it and
the um and he sent his whole like uh bit shoot um community after me with his little white supremacist
gang of like pseudoscience believes the earth is flat alien lizard overlord Q and on people and
it was wild seriously wild time have you have you ever okay another question for all of you guys
have you ever had a conversation with people this this is what happens to me all the time 24 7 and I
think it's because I just am very friendly um have you ever been having a totally normal conversation
with somebody that just takes a turn without warning and you realize you've been talking to
somebody unhinged for quite some time oh that happens to me all the time I mean well I mean
just in general I used to go to church right yeah yeah well like so this is and like and I don't mean
to demean like I know I make a lot of jokes about being from the south but this happens to me the
most when I'm here in the south when I'm in Tennessee when I'm in Arkansas you're having a
conversation maybe like somebody opens the conversation with like oh have you seen the
Barbie movie oh that's a great movie yeah blah blah blah it was so fun and I saw this movie and I saw
that movie and then they're like yeah and you know George Floyd I just still think there's you
know questions to be asked about that situation you're like no okay talking about transphobia Ben
and um and I actually messaged you this and you were talking about this but this is the same thing
while I was talking we had a family member over on my wife's side that I'd never met before no one
had ever met before we kind of had them over and we're having a barbecue and we're chilling outside
having a fire and I was um and someone asked one of my family members said oh what's Obamacare
and I said oh Obamacare is like the affordable care act well I try to explain it to them
and this person off in the distance um said Obama and I went yeah yeah Obama Obamacare
over and they went Obama again and I went yeah yeah yeah and then they go and I quote do you know
his uh what did she say uh he's a man and I went what what and they go yeah he's a man
and I was like yeah yeah yeah Barack Obama like no no Michelle Obama's a man and I was like what
and I was like what are you talking about and then like like then went like this insane conspiracy
level stuff like there's and I was just like wait wait I was like wait so you've seen photos of them
as a man it's like yeah I was like could those photos be photoshopped no they couldn't be photoshopped
it's like why couldn't they be photoshopped it's like just just because they couldn't be photoshopped
okay like like I'm like I'm like so confused I've never heard of this and I messaged Ben like Ben
like what the fuck like I've run to this type of transphobe and what do you say to me you said
like oh you've got transvestigators like what is it transvestigators you're like you've got them
in your family like wow yeah oh this is like a whole group there's some interesting people um
that are transphobes on the internet and and it's funny people that don't routinely engage with them
might be caught off guard by some of the weird shit that happens in the gender critical community
but yeah that that's one of the weirder things and it's so common and it's it's actually one of the
more funny things because it's so unhinged and so ridiculous because the whole point is they'll
take cis celebrities and they will just find all these weird random reasons why this person is
obviously trans like like the thing that like what Justin Bieber's actually a trans man
I can see that I can see that I don't know but it's like they'll take people that are clearly
cis people and they'll make the dumbest thing they'll they'll like take these pictures and like
zoom in on their hands and like their index fingers like this long in relation to their
ring finger there for their trans and you're like it's so bizarre because I said I asked like I was
like why I was like why is Michelle's trans like I didn't even ask where their kids came from like
what what did Barack get pregnant like I'm so confused and I'm like so so I'm like so I'm like
why and they're like well they're trying to bring trans and everything I'm like they're trying
I'm like so why is she secretly trans why is like I'm happy to like engage in your worldview for a
second but it makes no fucking sense they're trying to bring transgenderism which I know is like not
not a good term but like they're trying to bring that into everything but they're like but they're
like doing it secretly like this makes no fucking sense like I'm like I'm like I'm like I'm like I
can blow my mind like I like my brain breaks like I just can't handle the stupid like and the same
person by the way not to blast I haven't said names but those blasts out said said um said that um
she was a teacher she said why can't we uh get why can't we show kids information on bitchew
why do we have to go through public um information on government websites I'm like
bitchewed like the same website where like my white nationalist like white like like friend
came from like the one who was like the earth's flat and the bible's river white people like really
this is the sources you want to go to and now I'm in a rant like oh man like I just well and the best
part about those types of people is you say things like are you sure that picture of Michelle Obama
couldn't be photoshopped and they're like no that's not photoshopped and then you're like
so we agree that men have been on the moon and they're like no that's photoshopped
and you're like I don't what's the like what's the standard for what we believe is photoshopped
and what we don't I'm confused I don't understand Ben I have to ask like um as a trans person do
you like get get affected by this stuff anymore like does it still bother you when someone's
like transphobic or you just like yes I mean it does but it's like it's these arguments that
people have um they're just tiring at this point it's like yeah it's not even like I'm not necessarily
as enraged anymore as I am just like bored like I'm bored of the same stupid arguments every time
none of them are new is it like going to like a bathroom stall and you see like
you know some like dumb ass has written something on the wall and you're like oh that's annoying is
it like that level because like these people are like that level of like brain dead like yeah like
it's the same thing like like the amount of effort it takes to debunk any of these things is minimal
like it's the same arguments like just recycled over and over and and like the biggest and easiest
way to debunk any transphobic argument is just read the article they post because so often
it directly contradicts the thing that they're claiming so it's just annoying that you have to
keep like arguing gets the same stupid argument and inevitably and this is like the same thing
that you see with arguments like about the bible from like creationists or other like any any
Christians basically like the fact is like they'll all come up with these arguments as if it's their
own organic idea and if it's like this new groundbreaking thing and it isn't like it's
something that you've heard eight thousand times stuff for a hundred yeah it's the same stuff
like this isn't new like we've thought about this in great detail we've investigated this in great
detail and people just don't understand like a big kicker for me it's like like um oh they're
doing surgery they're doing genital surgery on children and it's just such a dishonest argument
because like they they love to use words that can be interpreted in different ways and then
not specify what content like exactly yeah well like like they use the word children you're like
okay but what age what age of child which number one we're not doing any genital surgeries on
trans minors at all that's not accepted by any medical organization and two if like you say the
word child some people might think of a toddler and some people might think of a 16 year old and
these are totally different populations of people like arguably you could have a 16 year old that
is independent enough to have autonomy and have consent to their own body yeah can you guys hear
i can hear that i think that's my smart speaker it just kicked on
there we go okay um but yeah like like you can get but you can get like a 16 like if we're debating
top surgery for 16 year olds which is often when a transphobes says we oppose surgery for minors
they're framing it to make you think that they're talking about genital surgeries on toddlers
when in actuality the case they're referring to is top surgery on a 16 year old which is are
very very different cases like and i and i think everybody will say there's a lot of gray area of
should a 16 year old have bodily autonomy this kind of thing and like there are a lot of
differing schools of thought and a lot of differing uh situations like the fact is that these people
are claiming that you should not have top surgery at age 16 because you're too young to make your
own decisions but simultaneously say you should have full medical autonomy uh to carry a pregnancy
to term as a nine year old like because you can make medical decisions for your own baby even if
you cannot medically make decisions for your own self based on your age which is absolutely wild
do you know i we got to bring out a next guest but do you know i really like the way and i know a
lot of people don't like destiny but i do like some of the things he says and one of the things he's
destiny stephen vanell says is he when he talks to conservatives about um uh trans medical issues
he says like i would never want the government to come in between the conversation between me my
my um son or my daughter or my doctor and like have say in that conversation and then immediately
gets conservatives like yeah yeah you're right actually i don't actually don't think that's a
good idea and i think that's a really tactical way to have those conversations with conservatives
is like do you want the government to come in you've got to like you've got to be tactical
do you want the government to come in and like have a say in what you can you and your your
family what you just saw what's best with your family um let's bring in the next guest and uh guys
let me just say that the um the the skits get a little bit more hinge unhinged from here um
so it started off with me politely asking everyone to subscribe and uh now we're up to this
so welcome ricky captain dad
and uh i don't just quickly i don't think we should be murdering uh or drowning our um
people who don't subscribe to deep drinks i do i disagree yeah i think it's totally fair i firmly
stand behind that i do criminal if you don't subscribe to the channel you're committing a
crime somewhere i don't know where you wouldn't believe how many people i talk you want to believe
how many people i talk to about like airing the skit of me murdering like drowning pretending
pretending to drown the camera like i talk to so many people including sydney like do you
think it's okay and we're gonna get cancelled again like it's a dark it's a too dark of a
humor like at like two o'clock in the morning you were like i just got a can i just share this with
you can i just yeah yeah it's even how did you film that that was just do pro my boss is go pro
and i was like there's more to come there's more to come so just just hold your thoughts
i love it i really do ricky thank you so much for coming on captain dad pool the tiktok sensation
and youtube star um it doesn't really amazing content what is your quote idea or concept you
want to talk about and i'm just moving myself so uh before i share the quote uh i want to kind
of set the stage a little bit um when you told me david that you wanted you want this uh an
inspirational heads up i've been hanging out backstage and then the sauce is hitting me so
if i stutter a bit and see kind of incoherent yeah that's what we want i want the last ones
to come on so the sauce is hitting me but anyway um when you said is there an inspirational quote
that i knew immediately um there's a quote that's been an inspiration to my like whole world view
for a very long time um and it's by a guy don't bring it up yet this guy it's by a guy named bill
ballard uh or bullard bill board sorry he um he fought in uh in pearl harbor and after pearl harbor
he worked in the oil fields because he wanted to put himself through college could because
he wanted to become a college professor uh but then world war two happened and he volunteered to
fight in that he couldn't be drafted like the draft was going on at the time he couldn't be
drafted because he had already served but he volunteered uh to go and serve to fight any
but he became a pilot and he flew in over 50 missions he was shot down in the beaches of
normandy uh and he was a p o w for like like he was shot down and he survived he was a p o w for
about a year um and he was eventually released and after he was released he wrote a book uh the
book was called uh tight turns um and in this book he has this quote do you have it can you bring it
up yeah if you can't no worry i'll there we go no worse opinion is really the lowest form of human
knowledge it requires no accountability no understanding the highest form of knowledge
is empathy for requires us to suspend our egos and live in another person's world it requires
profound purpose larger than the self kind of understanding it requires right requires profound
purpose larger than the self kind so whenever you hear someone say that's just my opinion man
like on on what grounds where are you getting this opinion from what how are you qualifying
this opinion they don't it's just that's just my opinion man well i'm curious about that last
couple of words the self kind of understanding i'm wondering like what does in your opinion what does
that mean i'm not sure exactly again this is like where i'm like i pause yeah yeah this is
like 45 language i'm not exactly sure is it like self kind or the self kind of understanding like
do you see what i'm saying is it like because i feel like there's yeah honestly i'm not sure no
no i think it requires profound purpose larger than the self kind of understanding
so okay like the understanding yeah yeah yeah gotta gotta i don't know why just hearing use
repeat it made it make more sense to me than everybody else repeating it ricky i that means
that that i've been having you know um i've been having a lot of conversations with testifier
apologetics um you know publicly privately and stuff and um he's a friend i like him he's a
he's a guy he's content yeah conscious so i know that there will get some mixed opinions here in
the audience um but essentially like what i argue is um is like as a non-expert and the only expert
here on bible stuff i guess is dr kill i guess no ricky you know you have some qualifications
as well but but like in regards to like proper like bible like big time daddy bible scholarship
like i have no fucking idea i have to just like appeal to consensus and this is the the
the conversation i was having with with eric it's eric right oh my gosh yeah eric just
right yeah is like is like i have like if i'm going to challenge consensus that says like two
thessalonians for example is like not written by paul which is like the consensus opinion
overwhelming consensus opinion i should might might add then like on what merit on what
how on earth do i like that's like me going into like me like going up to a med school
like like to dr bendon been like actually this is this virus is you know like and like explaining
what i think like something is it's like on what grounds and this is the problem that i have it's
like like like it people say like it's maybe it's an appeal to authority i don't think it is like
because the authority is actually the authority of what we're talking about like how do i i would
actually have to be the appeal to authority in this instance are those who say well i'm going to
adopt this non-consensus view because of this scholar who holds it right that's the actual
appeal to to authority so in this instance where you're you know in the conversation with eric
he's the one who's appealing to authority saying it's okay for me to think that paul wrote it's
actually funny because this scholar said so if i and eric if you're watching this and i'm getting
these wrong i apologize i'm very lucky to but but eric but but but the the skull that he did bring
up was a philosopher of religion that was his expertise he wasn't like a like a bible scholar
who studied this so it's like you know i mean like i know that like it works within your
worldview and stuff but like it feels like opinion like what you're going back to what you're saying
ricky well that's that's the thing if i can interject with like that yeah that's how this
appeals to scholarship like um if you want to understand what's actually going on in the
biblical texts you have to remove yourself from from being the reader and try to understand what's
happening from the writer's perspective uh what happens too often with all these apologists is
they're trying to insert their own interpretation into uh the biblical texts they're not actually
removing themselves they're inserting themselves it's the complete opposite that's why you have
like scholars like dr kipp over here and so many others who are like no it doesn't matter what i what
i think it doesn't matter at all this is what the biblical authors are trying to say they're writing
in their own context they're writing to a specific specific audience to convey a specific message and
it doesn't matter who i am i'm 2000 years removed who the fuck am i it doesn't matter what matters
well who are they jesus are sort of returned and everything so we're living enough to be able to
remove yourself from if you don't understand yeah sorry no no no sorry i should apologize i'm drunk
and rambling sydney please i this is the part where i step in hello everyone i'm i'm going back i'm
going for totally all right so everybody did you see the barbie movie um i didn't actually
you didn't okay well i love the barbie movie i thought it was really fantastic i plan on it
i just i haven't gotten to yet yeah i cried at least once but i can't promise you well if you
weren't uh a young woman at the same time that i was maybe but i you know i think i might have cried
um but i but i do have to say i i find that as i get older i cry a lot yeah in movie
i played during guardians of the galaxy three yeah oh god did i fall i balled in that really
yeah oh yeah there was a set of shit in the world yeah that was crazy dr ven once last time you
cried during the movie i cried during barbie i cried during barbie i cried during barbie
yep i'm not gonna lie i'm not gonna say well i think there's a thing though i feel like these
other two people in the room would not necessarily cry during barbie because it wouldn't evoke the
same things in them that it did in us yes um it's it there's a lot of a lot of trauma that was relived
in in that movie um yeah yeah yep yep but but like in a in a way that made me appreciate who i am
today if that makes sense it made me feel like it was kind of a headache yeah yeah it was cathartic
it was like i felt seen i felt recognized but yeah yeah it's like i think it was a good movie especially
for showing cis men like what it's like to be raised and socialized to be female like and that's
because people don't understand and that and that's something that like people have told me that i have
male privilege because i'm a trans man but that's not true i was raised to be a woman right and like
that's some trauma that you will never easily get over yeah yep i did i did get offended at how
ripped you were that that nut stream where you ripped your shirt off and i was like motherfucker
i'm not that ripped though
i actually got the the privilege of hanging out with dr ben recently and i'm not gonna put any
like details out there don't worry uh but like um dr ben got like told us about some of the struggles
he faces as being a trans man like or a trans man is some of the things he has to do um that you
wouldn't really think about and i was like wow that sounds like a lot of effort a lot of struggle
that sucks like i i couldn't imagine having to do that as just like a part of your daily routine
so that's that's where that empathy comes in what is it is uh i think shannon q said like
having to justify your existence to every single fucking person yep yeah super super annoying yeah
yeah absolutely that's the thing let me let me take the mic for a second yeah um as a as a
straight white man myself um as a i know i'm a decent looking straight white man i have a
college education i'm an army veteran i stand as a pinnacle of privilege okay with the exception
of being an atheist like if i was an evangelical christian i would be conquering unstoppable
right unstoppable yeah also a month of these but so from that was that and hazy ipa one of my
favorite goat black ops i love hazy's yeah but since i'm since i'm on that level on that
perspective i have to look at everybody else and be like you don't have what i have you can't just
go into a supermarket and act like you own the fucking place like i can i can do that you can't
i can go into any bed or any into the men's bathroom and be totally comfortable
not everybody can do that so you can go for a walk after dark exactly i don't have to put my keys
in between my fingers when i go to my car i don't have to do that yeah so you have to like move
yourself and realize that's where empathy comes in put yourself in the person who has to do that
or put yourself in the perspective of the person who has to do that yeah yeah and like
that's where you have to like oh shit my class my privilege needs to recognize the struggle of
everybody else yeah and one of the most interesting no no no one of the most interesting things i've
ever heard was a guy that i know talking about how being a father of a daughter helped him understand
because not because oh i love her more you know like that not not in the way that we would think
like oh it's my daughter therefore i want her to be safer but because when he would start when she
would start to hang out with guys and he would panic he'd be like why am i so worried she'll
hang out with a man oh that's interesting like now i my panic that i think of when she hangs out with
a guy should show me the panic that i should have for women's safety in general and it was just very
interesting to hear that part of the conversation where sometimes it just takes thinking about why
it is that you react to things in certain ways to understand oh that's why they reacted this
all the time they they react in this way it's a personal encounter with the issue for some people
to to realize didn't like um what was it dick cheney his his daughter came out as lesbian
and like he was like very anti homosexuality and then his daughter came out as lesbian suddenly he
like changed tunes and i'm right about that uh let me google that i think you're right it sounds
like it doesn't matter because it sounds right like it's like that is like such a classic cliche
of like someone yeah being anti you know like the guest i had on um a few days ago kyla she
was a fundamentalist until her brother came out as gay and the church just totally ostracized him
and now she's a different she's a christian which is a different type of christian but like that's
right she was killed right it's just so cliche
yeah marry cheney's gay yeah i was trying to that's why i don't have memory but you know
but this is why the barbie movie was so powerful because it flips the script and puts men in the
position that women were already in and so women are saying yes this is putting words to something
that i've been trying to communicate for my whole life and nobody understood me and i was gaslit
constantly and just told i was the problem and then you have men that were outraged by this movie
because they're like how how dare you put men in this position and like that's the point we want
you to be enraged about it we want you to think it's unfair because it is and we're not saying that
that should be the order of things but we want people to understand that nobody should feel that
way and like it just takes maybe putting you in that mindset to think oh i should stand against
this for all people yes yes and i think that same exact attitude is the only way that so many of us
especially in our community can communicate with other people like for example separation of church
and state people are like oh so you're like you're just worried about having god involved god
involved god involved and i'm like no i want separation of all religions from things that are
like rules that are being made by the government because as soon as you tell them that also protects
you from a law they get it as soon as you're like separation of church and state also doesn't let
muslims make the rules here or jewish people make the rules here it definitely not christians
either but like when i say separation of church and state i'm not saying take god out of it which
i am saying that but like i'm not only targeting god you know like definitely take god out of it
like definitely a hundred percent you got out of it but i'm saying anybody from any religion should
be protected from other religions there should be a separation between what you do in church
and but they never understand until you say okay so if we like say we get another muslim president
because that's so many people still think that obama is muslim oh yeah that's right and he's
watched his trans right right with a muslim president with a trans wife thank you so much
oh man oh you're gonna you're gonna be cool then with them proposing laws according to their
and we'll know we'll know let me let me share something a little more relevant to my the
code i shared and to my own personal spirits when i was growing up i had a my my best friend
he died for medical conditions oh um but um he was a huge fan of the legend of zelda
new games like we're both big gamers and we played yeah we played zelda ocarina of time like together
i would call him and ask like what do you do with the water temple
dude yeah what the fuck sorry we i didn't pump breaks you a quick i know you're taking a hop
i've got a channel where me and our friend are a hundred percenting zelda ocarina of time right now
youtube.com has stripy like yeah yeah dude i love that that's what i'm talking about how many attacks
yeah yeah okay keep going anyway um but one day i was complaining to him about link because link
is left-handed y'all didn't know and i was like why why did they make link left-handed that's weird
and he was like well i'm left-handed that's why i like him so much he wields his sword with his left
hand and his shield with his right hand i was like that's totally backward he was like yeah but i like
that that that makes it more relevant to me and i was like oh yeah i think i was like 10 or 12 at
this age i was like oh okay that makes sense i i get how you you connect with link more because
he's left-handed i start to think like how many video character video game characters can you
think of that are left-handed none fucking none link is the only one and you only know that because
i just told you link is left-handed go fucking look and so now i'm like oh that he was able to
like connect with that character because he's the only character in like every video game ever
fucking made every movie ever fucking made that he can relate to as someone who's left-handed
so now fast forward how many gay people can can connect to a gay character how many trans people
can connect to a trans character as a straight white guy i can connect with every fucking character
that's ever been fucking made in every fucking video game in every fucking movie that's right
right and as a big titty female i too can relate to a lot of video game characters right when i
walk around in my metal lingerie in my lap hell yeah hell yeah model combat baby but it's it's
actually interesting because um i was actually really stoked on the grand theft auto six trailer
not to talk about video games the whole time but like it starts with a female lead and you're like
fuck yeah like this is really cool and they're not like like you know and there's the recent um the
recent controversy not controversy but there's one streamer went ballistic because in the new
starfield game by elder scrolls i don't know by elder scrolls oh my gosh uh the guys who make
Elder Scrolls forgot what it is uh but first up sorry you could choose like male female or
non-binary that's like that's like this and this guy went on this huge brand and it's just like
oh i can't believe you could choose non-binary i'm trying to be i'm trying to exit all this
shit and have an imaginary adventure and it's just like but think about how many people like
who are playing this game who are like maybe on the fence or like maybe like they're not sure about
their identity and they want to play as a certain like ben when we were playing when we had our um
episode of deep drinks you're talking about you'd always play as the female characters right like
um so that was you right because i had to oh i play as the males and i when i still thought i was
female and i was like this like i would basically masquerade as a dude on these online games i was
like can this be forever can i just yeah yeah so sorry sorry yeah yeah i gotta make something
yeah that's how i this is one of the reasons why i learned i was trans but it's funny because like
that dude like literally has nothing to do with it you don't have to choose the non-binary character
like you don't have to play as that character you can make the character however you want to make
the character it's just more obvious because i'm mad that it's just an option yeah yep yeah that's
what pisses me off that it's an option that's your privilege showing yeah and it's like sorry
just quickly it's like a world war two game it's like they got feet they got like female
characters and it's just like it's like this is sort of the unrealistic and it's like as you like
like you run up the wall and like jump off like a building and like dive into like a thing it's like
this is so unrealistic why is it female characters in world war two game it's like oh but this is
the same thing with with this general aerial and the live action disney remake of the mermaid
they made her a black uh mermaid like like i'm she's also black like a latte black like
no it's like she's a what are you mad she's a mermaid what are you pissed off about
yeah that's the unrealistic part that aerial wouldn't be black yeah that's the unrealistic part
oh wow that's so fucking tight that triggers this grab can sing
yeah yeah no it's not that big it's real no i was just gonna say like one when when gay
marriage was first legalized in the united states and you know evangelicals freaked out
i was like do you think they think they have to get gay married is that what this is about
like you know that they don't like they don't have to get me married if they don't want to
it's like this bizarre a world like what's next we all move to france it's like what what the
fuck like what's this like slippery slope and like oblivion like this makes no sense like like
it's always so bizarre yeah yeah can i can i address the trolley comments about the barbie
barbie movie um no i mean yes hold on so there is there is a trans actress in the barbie movie
and to claim that it has to have a queer couple in order to be progressive is not an appropriate
comment because the whole point is like the whole movie is a it's a satire of cis heteronormative
culture and isn't alan gay in the barbie movie as well i think there might be i i haven't seen a
barbie i didn't realize i don't know i don't know like the whole point is yeah we're allowing gay
people to exist the whole point is it's a social commentary and it is satire pointing out the
problems in cis heteronormative society so like not having queer people doesn't which it does have
queer people like the they have cast members that are queer people like not having gay characters
does not mean as not a progressive film because it's not pointing out problems in queer society
it's pointing out problems in normalizing like as cis heteronormative exclusive culture so like i
think maybe you're missing the point of the social commentary i don't think they've seen barbie i think
they're just upset i don't think they've seen the movie yeah maybe that's my friend man man
witch is um let me just give you a story about man witch man witch was a friend of mine in high
school who pulled out my pencil case and i said to him don't write anything sacrilegious on the
man i'm having a really bad day and it was like right as i became a christian yeah pencil case
in high school i heard that he wrote and he wrote jesus rules the coc and i went to christian average
center so he but he was saying jesus or jesus loves the cock jesus loves the coc and um i punched
him in the face and i gave him a little spit on his cheek and um he went to the he ended up getting
taken to the the office and i was in the next room crying about how bad i was as he's like no no i
provoked him he i shouldn't have provoked him he punched me because i provoked him and uh yeah he's
one of my one of my best friends um i think he's just being being silly and uh was just trying to
keep you grounded mate yeah thanks thank you thank you man witch um also here's the same person who
i got a friend request on myspace from someone called man witch and um i was like oh cool man
witch like i know someone called man with like i like man witch was like a like a term we used in
high school and i accepted them and then they posted porn all over my wall and i had to delete
and then so yeah great friends great friends since uh since high school days so um but uh
but yeah we have our next guest and um i want to apologize again for the next clip that i'm
going to show but as we bring on hanny let's do this so remember to subscribe to deep drinks
oh i've been they should have just subscribed i mean it's just it's so easy to subscribe it's just
a click of the button i mean why didn't they subscribe
there's about there's some dark humor for you i've murdered the the audience for not subscribing
but uh hanny welcome critical faculty how you're doing you're moving house right here
i'm moving house and therefore i'm just drinking water today
oh i can hear a bit of a feedback okay i've expected that so i've prepared something earlier
let me know if this is and thank you thank you everyone for staying by the way i hope you guys
are enjoying this as much as i am i'm definitely getting very drunk um and uh ricky i hope you're
all the same seems yeah awesome awesome okay if you get my bottle is empty it's all it wasn't
wanted to begin with though so ben said i'm here i'm what are we saying in the group chat i'm here
i said i'm here i'm clear and i have beer but also while we're talking about our drinks i am
going to do i'm going to do a shot here because um i have to honor my my uh hamster that passed away
across the rainbow bridge right um so i got it but i wanted to show off the tequila that i have uh
this is nice kagito yeah this is expensive pebbles to pebbles pebbles to pebbles fucking pebbles
man losing in pet it's always really hard that's and see here that's the thing is we have 12 and
that's going to be a lot of sadness that's going to be i think about that all the time no 12 pets
no i don't have 12 no i we have 12 pets and i think all the time about how like i just set myself up
for 12 funerals and that's really upsetting no and most of these pets are going to live decades yeah
yeah i i you know i picked an animal that has a lifespan of like one to two years so i i knew
it was gonna happen i didn't expect it to happen so soon so i was upset by it pebbles is it was a
great pet but i'm looking at getting a cat sometime soon that will last me longer um if you want a
pet to last forever get a parrot i was gonna say don't talk to sidney we'll just convince you
like we've had we've had birds and well i had a bird in the past like as a kid but i'm looking for
a lower maintenance pet yeah doesn't it come why i was from 80 hours a week that's not much that's
like yeah in america that's nothing i actually have a lot of religious trauma connected to my
old pet hamster so oh wow because when okay let's hi do you need to hear this yeah so i haven't
been in a while you're quickly so i had a my brother and i had hamsters when i was like 12
i think or well i guess we got them we were we were 10 or 11 and my hamster was already two and
a half three years old that's a really old hamster i know right like he was always really old and uh
i was uh i i went it was it was summer holidays and i went over to a buddy's house
um and he had a he had a Ouija board and we were playing i didn't know what the what the hell
this was about oh that's when you started locking metal music from the Ouija board demons like probably
it probably just completely fucked me up but you know i started i started playing with the with
the Ouija board it was super fun um you know until it got a little bit dark and it was less fun
and then uh later that day my hamster died and in my mind i was i you know correlation is causation
right i was convinced yeah that you know this was my fault because i was i was consorting
with demons and i had this i had this this terrible uh like emotional breakdown and i
bawled my head off and and you know talking to my parents about all you know the the the
terrible thing that i had done by you know engaging the occult which resulted in my hamster's
death and you know they certainly did nothing to uh to dispel me of that thought were they like yep
that sounds about right yeah that sounds right that's how it happens um no animals die when you
when you engage with you when you use the Ouija board or when you masturbate those are the two
things that's definitely what killed my hamster i'm telling you i masturbate thanks you much
ben oh god look at how man you masturbation killing animals you can every time you masturbate god
kills a puppy that's like the or an or a small little animal right and that's like i'm not gonna
stop anytime soon right let me let let's just let's just i want to direct the conversation to
hanny hanny you have brought a quote a um we can we can we can move on to debauchery and fun topics
and like randomness in a second but hanny i want to give you the floor what have you brought um that
uh that is like a quote something that's inspirational something that's um mean something
to you around religion philosophy and science right well i first of all it's very difficult to
as a sober person to come into a room full of slushed people so it's always uh
he's sitting inside that's sitting inside i'm totally sober are you sober or brilliant okay well
he's like oh i'm going to bring my original ideas i'm not gonna quote any person as such i
want to i want to bring to the fold what i'm trying to achieve uh by starting critical faculty
some three years ago and what is i'm trying to say there's a lot of channels at the moment
being opening up let me just sorry budding sorry hanny is an ex muslim an ex christian okay like
that's just like he does his episodes in arabic as well so like cool keep going yeah well i was
born to an egyptian muslim father who left islam and a christian irish mother who's also left
christianity so but so i didn't go to one religion after the other it's kind of it was an open home
with a lot of philosophy and a lot of religion and i can choose what i wanted and it was more
experimental rather than being a devout just to see what the what the fuss is all about
but you know i ended up you know finding that man made interesting stories though because i'm
i'm a very avid believer that religion is is very valuable or was very valuable at some
points when the tools of epistemology were quite poor this is how people understood the word around
them it's just stupid now to continue using the same tools that they had 2000 years ago but it was
useful at the time for whatever reason it just for now it's it's not it's not working and it's
causing a lot of trouble so my my position is that that's why i don't like the the burning of the
quran's you know and i could i understand it i understand some people have traumas and this
is how they express themselves but i think if we're gonna going to be engaged in intellectual
conversation it is going it's not going to be useful to to do it that way because to me it's
such a valuable document it's it's almost a biography of humanity of how we uh our worries
and our fears or our ignorances and it's so important for me it's a document that i'll keep
reflecting on to understand how we used to think in order to to move on from from there and therefore
i've started critical faculty in arabic in english thanks ben and uh and i wanted to start
a conversation because the arabic world i don't think the problem is religion a lot of people
are convinced religion is the is the root of all evil i don't think so it's ignorance is the root
of all evil ignorance uh bread religion and therefore it's not getting rid of religion really
is getting rid of ignorance and eventually uh mythological thinking and magical thinking
will dissipate on in its own time because you can't also do that suddenly it leaves a vacuum
and it's a it's a spiritual vacuum that a lot of people don't know what to do with themselves after
the disappearance of religion so you have to fill that vacuum and anchor people
you know on solid grounds with science and logic and lots of other things so when they leave
then they sort of land safely on their feet
yeah that's that's a really great take that's a really fantastic take
yeah that's okay awesome never thought about it like we just delete my segment entirely because
i can't i can't follow that that was really that was yeah henny i that was like wild man like i i feel
like um i feel like if you've told me that on our stream that i've i've i've i've been too drunk
right now to remember but that's that's brilliant man like because it's it's true right like you
fix ignorance you you generally will fix most of most uh of religion at least look i have actually
i actually have no problem with someone being religious it's it's it's fundamentalism that
i have a huge issue yeah if someone has like a personal god and i pray to them or they have
like rituals that make them feel happy like whatever like i don't give a shit it's when
they like start infringing on other people's rights or when they start like it starts to
cause like negative attributions in their life that i have a problem with and that's even separate to
like me me personally thinking about like where does truth come from like i don't give a shit
but like well i give a shit about where truth comes from but you know you don't know what i mean
just to give you an idea i was in tiktok the other day and there's like a lot of arabic there's
atheism in the arab world is quite prevalent at the moment everybody's outspoken this is a lot
really not good yes i would not have guessed it's huge at the moment but also for the wrong
reasons because the the the broadcast i was in was calling religious people to be mentally ill
and i was i was so upset by it because you see once you come to this understanding you have a more
of a compassionate approach to this these people are they need they need compassion and they need
understanding i don't think they're stupid my IQ hasn't gone up because of religion is exactly the
same i was just wrong they're just wrong that's all they're they're not evil they're not horrible
people they're just wrong and and and also this is not factually true dsm 5 it's the new categorization
of mental illnesses and mental illness has to be something that's prevalent and supposed to
stop you from living life normally and if it doesn't do that then it's not a mental illness so it's
not even not factually true so this is where i need to bring signs to the conversation because i
think it's eventually going to it's going to change people mind it's a it's a bit slower
but i believe slower things i'm a i'm a bottom up person i've never been a top down
it's a bit slower but it's it's stand the test of time so can can i put something out there
at this point um just because so i you know in the process of writing this
this book on israelite religions i've had to go back and think carefully through
this whole question of religion again and um i guess i'll just share something else here this is
from my my introduction which i've titled cutting the grass around the giant space penis um
um so in thinking about religion did i personally like you did cutting the grass around the giant
space okay all right so i personally like the idea of religion the idea of religion that through
ritual story devotion to something intangible or bigger than yourself imagine forces people
relentlessly seek to improve themselves and their circumstances in the world like religion is super
dangerous but in part because it's also super super interesting and useful and i i feel like so
often we we throw i we throw the baby out with the bath water and and that's what i hear haney
saying here you know yeah the problem is ignorance yes right it's not religion and you know what i
think i've sort of traced the evolution of humanity and rich we are ritualistic animals
you know that smoke and we look at smoking it's not just the the addiction to nicotine it's
addiction to the the bringing the lighter taking out the cigarette taking a time out you know this
we're hanging out parking lot with your buddies right exactly right exactly right so what you can
do yeah it's the same kid exactly right so what you want to do is replace the rituals with something
that is not attached to supernatural so we can say we've got challenges coming our way right now
our planet our house isn't is in danger can we get together and that's of course bigger than
ourselves and it's actually has you know realistic um application in life and we can do it that way
yeah i i love your take because it's very direct but it's also very empathetic it's you're not
what i like about what you're saying is your i don't feel like you're choosing a side but i also
don't feel like you are going easy on anybody necessarily you're not saying like oh this isn't
harmful or that isn't a problem you're saying the root of these problems are different than what
we're blaming what you're claiming these harmful things are is not what they are and it gives a
sense of empathy that i think is missing and a lot of deconstruction content and a lot of of
um content from people who are non-religious is this idea that it's like they're not mentally ill
or maybe they're not whatever it is you're you're calling them they're simply following what um
evolution has made them do evolution has dictated that they would essentially be drawn to these ideas
and i think that's it's empathetic and it makes me pause and think more and want to look into it more
and it also makes me want to understand people a lot more than say for example if i was just an
ex-christian saying no christians are awful they're dumb they're idiots they're ignorant it makes me
want to say wow that's a great point maybe i should chill out a little bit maybe i should listen a
little bit more maybe i should research a little bit more um and i i like that i i respect that
that's one of the things that drives me crazy about some of the takes coming from my fellow
edgy and internet atheists is they're like oh religion is just a tool to control people like
it didn't start that way it eventually became that way and was like it became a tool and was
weaponized but it did not start that way like you're eliminating the nuance you're eliminating
the empathy you you're like there's so much more to it than that and it drives me crazy when they
say things like that there it goes as well as when you add a very very prevalent biological fact
we actually we evolved to to believe we evolved to to to have faith and that's called the the uh the
type one error or the false negative the rustling in the tree example of of the ancient people trying
to reach for some fruit they hear some sounds coming from behind the trees and they have two
options to go there and risk their lives or to believe that there is something there it's about
to eat them devour them if they go there so they choose very pragmatically may i say because the
lack of epistemological tools to find out what's the source of the of the sound to to choose to
believe that there's something out there to eat them and therefore the the birth of
asienticity there's an agent always behind things that nothing just happened everything
happens for a reason and and we we were sort of we follow that pattern it saved us we are literally
the offspring of those who fled have fled anybody who's done any type of critical thinking at the
time would have been eaten alive and would have not bred and and therefore it's prevalent religion
and believing without evidence is such a it's a it's a big thing uh and the last thing i want to
add is uh you've got the the brain it's about 3.7 billion years in the making ever since living
organism of stardust and only in the last two million years the prefrontal lobe cortex has
started to evolve and get bigger and that's responsible of the all the logical functions
it's such a new area we take emotions in first and then we try to rationalize emotions
we're we're still early in our evolution yeah have you ever read the book why we believe in
gods by j. anderson thompson yes i love that book it's a wonderful book it's a quick read
but one of my favorite things is that he he very much like you're talking about he approaches the
idea that believing in gods has actually been evolutionarily beneficial for a while and like
he he examines all the ways that humans have actually benefited from believing in a higher
power or a god or godlike beings or the ways that we have mentally and physically benefited from
feeling as though we're watched by something that cares about us all the time even when we're alone
um and i just think like i was going to recommend that book to you but if you've read it like you
know it's such a good book it's very again it it does nothing but instill a sense of empathy and
curiosity in whoever reads it yeah i mean i was listening to you guys were we're starting to
conversation about transgenderism and and and these sort of new ones um emerging issues of in
our current life and uh there's a very interesting conversation between ben Shapiro and neil degras
tyson which was very very interesting that was a very interesting because um neil degras
i loved neil degras tyson steak really really nuanced the other guys like just okay well we did
not evolve to to to to know the truth we evolved to survive and live and and live with quality
if people are going to choose and they're not hurting anyone to do things that will make them
feel happy and they will eventually then contribute positively in the society they live in
let's celebrate that why are we stopping in our way and say you're not exactly what i
expect you to be i want you to be that way because this is how what i'm used to this is just
and it needs to change really quickly absolutely yeah i really like that conversation with neil
and um and uh ben Shapiro you know like look i'm gonna say this in fact get crucified by a
lot of people but i actually respect um ben Shapiro as a thinker i think he's wrong for 99% of the
stuff he says but like i think he actually thinks about things he's just fundamentally something
going on in the bottom there but if you fix that bottom part like i think his thoughts would arrive
at a rational conclusion but watch this conversation with alex the corner because it's just the most
recent one these you know i'm like 20 minutes into that and i'm like that i'm like i'm loving
it so much already so like yeah yeah um although i will say he humiliated himself with his take on
the song wop he just oh he absolutely yeah yeah what was that about he's like he's he's
he's an intelligent person like ben Shapiro is an absolutely intelligent person the problem is
he has so much bias for what he believes that he's willing to throw away all all
reputation of intelligence for that bias that he has yes and like if if he could just honestly
follow the evidence where it leads and take an honest approach like he he'd be great he could
be unstoppable like absolutely it just he is holding himself back and that is really frustrating
yes yes what's even more frustrating is he has a sister and she also has a youtube channel so you
know that's also and she's also like similarly very brilliant it's very intelligent like i think they
they could do so much good for the world if they would just let go of some of the things that
yeah he didn't instead try to be team rocket they could do
that's perfect though but i don't think that ben and um his sister abby are um necessarily bad
faith actors i think they really believe what they believe but one person who i think is just like
drenched in bigotry and just like puts out content is that fuckhead matt welch like he is like
he was like interviewed about like trans uh trans stuff and he was like
what do you say it's like 25 percent of the population was trans and you're like
how do you not know this you just the documentary on like like this very topic and you're like
orders of magnitude out like you this is bizarre like this is like this you should be like ostracized
for this like you should be like i'm not a fan of public vlogging but maybe in this case like that's
that's all i'm saying like i mean like this is like fuck and even so it's like okay so 25 percent is
trans who cares what yeah but it's just like that's yeah exactly but it's just like this the way that
like uh who's it um uh with ted uh and what is the name like tucker carlson we're like tucker
carlson stuff talk about it it's like it's like your kids gonna catch the trans and they're going
to catch us like at your school and like half of the kids like pretend to be like like cats or
something like this is not like it's so bizarre like the way that they're blown it out of proportion
and then like for matt welch to do an entire documentary and then be like you know what this
is like sweeping the nation and it's like well not even the nation in the world and it's like it's
just besides you see the you know when uh tucker carlson or no no uh bitch beer like for the daily
wire they wanted to make a video a movie about lady ballers is the name um and they it's a movie
about how men like became women to infiltrate women's sports right for that whole thing
originally they wanted it to be a documentary uh and they realized they had to get their actors to
actually go on hormone pills for like a year and they had to get like therapists to sign off on it
and they were like oh we couldn't do all that so they ended up making it like a total fiction movie
and he said this on camera on on interview he's like yeah we couldn't we couldn't do all this stuff
so we ended up making it fiction so their point was so hard you watch the trailer it's like a guy
choked slamming a woman into the ground it's like it's they're like we couldn't find enough actual
evidence to support what we're trying to say so instead we just made it all up but the point still
stands exactly yeah that's what they do yeah well remember they made like a movie about hunter
laptop like oh they made a whole ass movie
i just don't understand why it's that important it's like sorry i need to as a non-american
i need to be like like your guys she does whack like we don't have any you would like like honey like
i don't know you'd have to agree right like we're all like looking at america like you guys okay
so in all in all fairness okay so like looking at my future um in the field of medicine
like so i have a fairly like unique degree like for the rest of the world like i have a
do as opposed to an md with their licensed equally in the us but um i think australia and
news d lind will both license us d os and i'm like you know what take me
come to australia yeah yeah for sure maybe i'll end up there in a few years we'll find out well
it'll be it'll be pitchy to abandoned i mean i think i heard some news about robber deniro
and somebody else a couple of celebrities said they'll leave the us of trump was elected again
and i thought we shouldn't know this is this is a this is a country that was was was founded on
such fantastic beautiful constitution and thoughts and the founding fathers were like way
advanced way ahead of their time you know like like intellectuals proper intellectuals well for
their time for their time preface preface preface enormous pieces of shit but yeah
but that's humanity and you just look at the eyes of you know one of the most wonderful
is intelligent people 90 percent of these writings were rubbish yeah exactly yeah it's just it's wild
because like you're getting physicians to leave these areas that need it the most but it's because
they're not allowed to practice medicine like you have the states that are outlawing abortion
and you're like well okay i guess i can't practice here because i'd because i'm going to go to prison
for doing the best thing for a person to save their life and nobody cares because like going
with every other conversation we've had tonight like all nuance is lost in the conversation and like
once all nuance is lost like you can't have a discussion with anybody period well yeah you know
skeptic like when he came on the on the channel like he he was talking about how he's like partner
had an ectomic is it ectopic ectopic currency ectopic ectopic and they were they found out
that it was it was like not viable and everything like but if they waited three days they would have
had to move states like they have to go out of state just to get like it fixed because even though
it was not viable because it was considered like an abortion or something at that stage like it was
like it's deadly ectopic and it's just it's just bizarre that like these like i guess um umbrella
um yeah so it's like on the one hand like you want to stay and and you think about it you want to
provide health care for these people but like you have no ability to do so and so yeah of course
doctors are going to move to the places where it's allowed and so you're just getting more health
inequity and that's what's going to come from it all of them are going to move to
australia new zealand and canada because they're allowed to practice there what i love about america
is that when you go to america when you go to american schools they say our country was founded
because we wanted religious freedom and the other in the other countries they would not allow us to
worship so we left and we started our own country for religious freedom but if you ask the other
countries we left they're like y'all were crazy you were literally insane you were psychotic and we
had to chase you out so you moved to an island where we didn't think anybody else lived and then
you guys just wiped everybody out who was living there and started your own cult like that's what
happened you were trying to start a cult we didn't want it we asked you to leave and then you planted
a flag on a beach and said religious freedom ricky is like seething because like he's in a
soldier is coming out and he's like ah f*** i'm glad for this guy i'm fine for you i'm good over here
man no the funny thing you read you read more into like the american revolution and it's like
on the one hand you're taught you're taught these very specific things about what went down and then
you learn about what really happened you're like oh these people were actually like very childish as
well like that like don't get me wrong there there were wrong actions on both sides of the
equation like there's a there's a lot going on but you're like you look into it you're like
hold on a sec like this is a very odd perspective to take like as the colonists like
that targeted the wealthy people and like okay yeah you kind of deserved it a little bit and
you kind of acted a little bit irrationally but i i hope that in the future someone looks back at
this panel and be like look at those immoral savages like because like society's gotten so much better
that like the stuff that we're talking about we're seeing this immoral i hope it's getting better
yeah um i have a i have an extra special an extra special thing uh that i that that that wasn't planned
i drunkenly messaged uh the person so um no one knows this person so don't get too excited
but um a while ago um i sent a message to my younger brother and i said um hey man it'd be
really awesome to do uh well i sent him this let me just let me just show you um what i'm what i'm
about to uh show you so i i sent him this tiktok randomly okay let's look at it okay
okay we're back again with another pack of divorced dads can anyone hear that see what we get here
oh yes oh fleck oh no old buddy in the original series this is called drinking buddy um
i'm a divorced dad so i already feel attacked some of them are five dollars some of them are
five dollars no receipt this one's a fifty dollar gift card so uh it's actually pretty good the armory
zen now zen's a good card if you pair it with speed machine and day drinking i think it is
yeah anyways hold on to this one as well barbecue brush okay last card come on
please let me pull the house for god's sake here we go house
oh holographic midlife crisis again midlife crisis everyone has one of these but a holographic version
so that's so i said that i was like man wouldn't it be sick to do this for like apologetics like
have like christian apologetics in this in this thing and he um randomly in random in the in the
mail he sends me this he sends me he sends me a picture of atlas as a pokemon card and it's
actually shiny i'm not sure if you can see that and it's a pokemon right um and uh and he actually
sent me a pack a booster pack of apologetic uh chris apologetic booster pack and i'd like to
welcome my younger brother for the first time he's actually it's like you know how the you know
how the iphone models get like you know that there's like a three g and then it goes to like the four
the iphone four and it was like thinner and like better looking that's kind of how i describe my
younger brother so here's my younger brother leo mcdonald's the nice intro younger thinner like
like just like it's like the internals work better like he's just like healthier in every way um
i could see it yeah it's yeah yeah yeah totally his face it's just like squished in like a little bit
like any yeah i'm using some webcast software so i'm very drunk i'm i'm very drunk you know
david i i think i think you have a baby face david i think you could you could pass for a younger
brother what do you mean you make an argument when you run into leo i think you have such a
baby face yeah fuck's sake this is like leo was did you tell your like girlfriend or something
that i was the younger brother for like the longest time i can't remember you were telling
someone that i was long though that i was the youngest brother um yeah anyway anyway thanks
for jumping on with no notice at all we're gonna open these this pack of cards and i have no idea
what's in this we're gonna find out in real time and um dr ben and ricky have left um just just
just briefly as they go get a drink but i'm going to uh gonna cut the top off if they're offensive
in any way um i apologize i'm pretty uh uneducated yeah this the thing is leo's not in this like
leo's just like hey um like i am ready for it i'm ready he's kind of like like god like oh yeah
like i think about that sometimes like he's like he's not like he was in the i've got your first
preach ever i could show everyone now it's more cringe than david's um so i might have
passed these up already oh no these look these are all holographic i haven't actually looked at
what they say though hang on a sec sorry guys a full holographic deck that's amazing oh my god
leo these look amazing help me you don't have a holographic jollo sting because if you do i'm
gonna lose it i'm gonna lose it so the first one i've got is um is this one
rebuke accountability oh no so this one is um zealot power rebuke when someone challenges
a fact action or direct quote that you have made you can play this card to rebuke them
then negate any further acts of blasphemy against you and your kin and then i can quote
i'll label anything that questions my faith a blasphemy this is actually great leo because
remember when you were rebuked by um by a friend of ours in a church can you tell that story quickly
oh yeah so he kept making like snide comments or insults against me and i i told him uh in kind of
non-certain terms but maybe a little rude to stop and then he rebuked me for it yeah and uh
like he said uh like i rebuked that in the name of jesus christ and then he turned to
his friend and goes see that's how you do it that's how you do it okay so the next one and i'm
this these these look amazing man um this is the blind face faith fallacy and uh oh sorry oh wow
there we go wow and it says um play this card uh follow a power of faith play this card whenever
you feel challenged and such or vulnerable in your beliefs by deferring to this card the player
can choose to avoid any critical thinking uh i don't need evidence i just have faith
you know people would buy these people can you make your can you make your your camera big so
that we can see them better yeah yeah yeah yeah okay that's a good idea um um let me just uh
you you need to call someone about this there we go yeah okay so let me do let me do this first
one again so this is ladies and gentlemen saw it here first that was actually a barbecue
accountability that's amazing that is amazing that's awesome on the back of it the back of it is that's
so good that's so good oh yeah i'm like i was so impressed with him right and this is that's the
he's like yeah yeah yeah yes yeah oh i hit my head so and this is the uh come on catch it yeah
there we go there we go oh yeah all the graphic and everything that's awesome i'm not sure how we
did that mage i think you should commercialize this this is brilliant yeah i think these need to go
up for sale on your channel man yeah yeah well leo and i have actually talked about that but like
this is the next one is the true the true fear of god uh let me go
so god okay
this card increased your the four horsemen consequences of divine judgment
zealot power so i'll try and read that um play this card to decrease your worldly connection by
one and add plus one to your willful sacrifice you can only play this card if you have your
failed high school history class i got the reminder that humanities um frailty and the
consequences of divine judgment that's so good i can't believe this isn't a real yeah i know this
needs to be leo leo get on to like come on man let's partner up buddy let's let's do this come on let's
leo works at walrus leo works at walrus and earlier in the stream i was telling everyone
words so
okay this is amazing um this one this one's perfectly oh i haven't seen these by the way
slavery wasn't like real slavery oh no you can play this card when your opponent um states
the research facts let me just let me read it sorry you can play this card when your
opponent states the research facts and poses an argument that is above your knowledge then you
can derail the argument by providing an inconsistent quote as a response quote slavery in the bible
times was like being uh live in chef with free housing it's amazing that you like you're not in
this sphere but like you've got it like so far you've got it like down for a professional basketball
player right here it's just like being a professional basketball player yeah it's so good just
you're like a live in chef like you're like a um this one is cherry picked scripture
look i just want to see the shiny like how did you get it like it's pretty good my god
that's awesome um when playing this card you can construct an idea using an amount or portion of
scripture religious texts and or and such or doctrine this idea can be presented as an evidence
based fact the bible like a puzzle and i'm the only one putting the pieces wherever i want so it's
hey that's that's fun listen this is just as i say this is just good early jewish scripture exegesis
i can't believe that like what it is we've got kip who's a bible scholar who's actually here like
he's choosing the places where the uh what that what you studied in school that you were placing
everything's around so the old see yeah hold on you're talking yeah yeah yeah you're doing that
but the correct way lio you you type all this up yeah a little help from you
that's awesome these are so good so good you made the cards you did all this yourself
yeah there was a few reference images like kind of copeland and then the slavery one
used like an outline because this is really fucking good it really is it really is like immaculate
like i'm i'm genuinely impressed i've never met you before but this is like this is really good
i'm impressed this is the best i've seen them as well ricky's ricky's ready to get another divorce
oh i am like honestly like it was just like three like like literally i sent it to him and then
like three weeks later he's like hey man like i get this like mail like this message in the
mail like this letter in the mail i'm open i'm like what the fuck it's a pack of cards i'm like
this is so good like i didn't tell you you just did all this shit out of nowhere with like
but i really like go like it i really should you should you should commercialize it as soon
as possible because this broadcast is going to be seen and you're going to be like alfred wallis
and and um and uh you know the evolution goes his name darwin when he discovered evolution
and then alfred wallis so shit i better publish my book before yeah yeah yeah so this is this is
going to be taken i tell you going to be like those twins on the social network i don't yeah exactly
yeah that's right let's not be the let's not be the twins leo let's let's let's um let's uh do this
and like comment comment down below if you buy a pack of holograph please um okay uh let me just
quite intoxicated let me just remind everyone um apologetics echo chamber this one's called
oh my gosh
that sounds actually like such a perfect image that is you've got a strict echo only
when this um when this card comes into play it creates an echo chamber force field any doubt
for words spoken inside the chamber will be transferred and received as an amen or hallelujah
quote we've got a strict echo only policy outside voices need not apply
oh i just saw dry sarcasm i love the dry sarcasm yeah this is this is ready i'm very drunk but
i'm having the greatest time um the art is amazing okay i'm actually asked if it's ai generated
yeah leo actually ai generated so i don't even care i can't actually had um but it all like
it's so good those people i stole from like a stock image but then i kind of ran a generation
over them so they were less identifiable i love it background completely you did a great job yeah
yeah for sure this is a good choice i want more i'm so glad he came on this is like i would have
been like oh leo is so mate i was just talking about you the whole time when everyone else could
tell you how you're amazing you are okay i love the rest of you guys but this is the best part of
the stream oh wait wait let me hear you know if it really is we only got 22 viewers we need to help
those numbers um
so choose one person use this card to quote deliver this person from an inflection of your choice
the chosen person may exclaim out loud i am delivered and they do they gain one plus charisma
quote i'm not gay no more i am delivered i don't like men's no more i said i like women
do you remember leo that was meant to be my dnd character my character was meant to be
gays no more that was i totally forgot that of my characters dungeons and dragons like like my
i play like a drunken dwarf and his whole character was supposed to be that he's gays no more
and he's trying to make an effort to show that he's not gays no more show us the card again david
show us the card again because i i do love the the lilac suits that's like real oh yeah that's
that's like real like if you've seen interviews with him he talks about it in um interviews
in interviews and stuff and like i i don't know what his sexual orientation is but like he
he gives off very not straight vibes this is what i'll say but not to say that isn't anything but like
yeah but like i was watching the uh the the gray glock dean odal uh biblical cosmology
debate on the weekend while i was making dinner and had the opportunity to tell my 19 year old son
what deliverance ministry is yeah what is so he was so let's talk about deliverance ministry for
a sec we've got one more card that i want to talk about deliverance ministry for a second that's okay
so that's i mean i mean that's what it's it's all about uh it's all about exercising demons and
evil spirits out of and and i think mostly out of actually out of christians i know um
you know it i went to a baptist church uh growing up so so we didn't i'm really sorry we didn't
yeah i know we didn't we didn't engage the crazy like you like you pentecostals did at least not
nearly as frequently but but there was one there was one instance of like a and we had an exorcism
in our church once um and it was you know a member of our church i'm fairly convinced that you know
all of this is about just just getting the demons out of all you christians who for some reason
uh it's amazing that they're getting infected with yeah demons get them
sorry christians got the most demons yeah that was a tuesday about rustic pentecostals did all
like a special music exactly right ricky so you were like a full you were full pentecostal um
yeah i was a charismatic pentecostal yeah oh yeah we did speaking in tongues
healings casting out demons we did all that shit leo would you feel comfortable telling
your story about your one experience trying to turn your baptist church into a like a pentecostal
church or would you not feel comfortable talking about that did i have an experience doing that
like yeah yeah so well let me let me tell you like i'll give you an over so at one stage so i came
down to blacked it out it was i came down seriously with my mom i moved up with my dad
i came down to visit leo and i came to the church and i i i got to speak at leo's small group leo
was running a small group and i got to speak at the small group and i said um so in the bible
verse blah blah blah and everyone turned over in their bible and i was like oh my god these people
are like on fire for god like my i i struggle really hard to get people to bring their bibles
even to a church service and these guys are like straight to the scripture and then at the end
i led some intercessory prayer for the community and everyone was like where i'm used to like
everyone like screaming like i command the devil takes his like his books and leaves right so like
i'm like wow this is interesting like leo's church is very much more bible orientated my church is
very much more casting the demons out of the area yeah more more performative so leo one night
decides to run a um run a um night where he does a bunch of this prayer are you comfortable talking
if not we can just do those but just a small group night um i'm not sure if it's the one
you're referring to but like i would put on like a reggie dabs preach um from planet shakers that
i had purchased and then um oh and then reggie dabs that the he's like a um really popular preacher
yeah it was really charismatic like really charismatic and he used a lot of metaphors
and um i just took so many notes and then i'd like i kind of like i guess kind of preach to the small
group almost afterwards trying to get everyone to talk about the notes almost like a oh shit there
he is and then i let everyone in like a i got worship music playing and try to get people to
pray out loud um but like it's i don't know it's kind of like trying to get them to have more
confidence almost because i was trying to like no just just just pray loud just you can whisper
whatever i just kind of try to guide them to be louder and louder and louder eventually um
kind of change the culture of the small group to be like that where everyone was starting to pray
out loud and starting to speak in tongues in the future oh wow it's just more great wow that's what
you're referring to that's yeah but didn't it didn't end in like really bad like didn't everyone
like leave the room and like run off into the bush and like you got banned from like
doing all this stuff again because they thought they were demons or something like i can't remember
the so it's a juicy part of this the small group was basically it was run by me and the
pastor's son who was my age and we're both teenagers um like 13 14 teenagers no like like
it's nuts and um well i had a key to the church and um it was like the old church leader was
transitioning to a new one uh like a new church leader like pastor and they gave the old one gave
us a key thinking that we had an adult with us because the pastor's son um was like it's the
pastor's son they thought they were involved but no it was just me and the pastor's son and then no
one was adult and um so i basically the small group kept going to the point where um one day
we i go there and i said i'm gonna turn up a couple hours early to pray and um while we're praying
for two hours i we blasted the music for some reason and everyone else started turning up
early because they heard i was going early to pray and then like it starts getting dark the music is
the loudest possible and it starts uh everyone starts feeling weird and then the music
just stops and does all this skidding like and then goes back to the music and yeah everyone
starts getting scared and they start thinking of like there's demons or something um this this girl
in the group starts seeing like eyes or something over the church and everyone's like outside and
they're not going in and then this one girl ran past running towards the traffic of the road and i
like jesus chases her and caught her and started getting real crazy and my my solution to that was
to when i caught this girl was to start yelling out prayers and tongues and then uh and then
everyone else kind of surrounded us and it culminates in in calling my youth pastor who then came and
then that's that was the last day of the small group because when he arrived the music stopped
having problems and like you know like all these different things you think oh that's a coincidence
right but like in the moment i'm thinking the devil yeah yeah the devil was affecting the music
until the authority figure came and then suddenly everything felt of course a couple of questions
Leo a couple of questions what age group and have they changed the the church locks after that
because you yeah but they took the keys back you know what they took the keys back and then
the small group uh got cancelled for a time being and then they it came back under this
elderly woman um who turned it into more of a bible study and no one really uh it was it was a
completely different thing at that point and yeah it kind of died off so how old were you then
how old were you i'm pretty sure 16 maybe 17 i remember sorry this is just like family stuff
i remember leo came to planet shaker's conference and he's just like he spent like a thousand bucks
like here's his teenager and he's like i saved up all year and he spent a thousand bucks on like
planet shaker merch he like bought like random dvds of people and stuff like remember i got like
the john jump of the dvd sets i got like multiple thousand bucks on the white wow like john was
john bavarian um yeah yeah yeah i was i was a i gave my heart to god at that planet shaker's event
and that's why i got the redgie dabs davidie yeah wow if i ever give the chance i will
sport and you kick john bavarian you get your heart back we need to do a deep dive into that
all right guys let's we're gonna end the stream but let me just show this last card um yeah which is
amazing it's and this is becoming popular again what oh yeah
yes so extremist power research play this card only when you have come prepared with research
you can make a statement about any topic as long as you provide 72 plus hours of evidence
so that's amazing because every time you talk to a flat earther like watch this five hour
documentary you're like fuck me like any statement you make must be taken seriously
in the flat earth club we think globe is just another word for conspiracy that's amazing
that's hilarious that's so good thank you so much for sending me these cards leo that's
that's great and thank you everyone for coming out this has been an absolute blast and thank you
for the huge super chats that um everyone has been sending like they're like we're in a recession
i'm not a i'm not a i'm not a man with a lot of money at the moment um but and i understand that
everyone else isn't so i really appreciate the um the support and uh this has been an amazing episode
and thank you all for coming out is there anything
that's the longest surely like if it wasn't the longest either dr kill or ricky we have got the
that's definitely no we never we never went this long yeah this this is this is long but um i had
a little cushion on my on my um and your cushion so yes i'm actually comfortable um but thank you
you guys for coming out it's been an absolute blast um and uh i got one last clip to show everyone
one last skit so let's do this or these
hello oh good evening officer what can i do for you
no no i don't know who that is no i they oh that yeah i know that person they actually weren't
subscribed to date drinks difference podcast so take us podcast on the internet
no you know you'd be you're subscribed to do you're not subscribed to date drinks
date drinks podcast
um
