Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcast, the deepest podcast on the internet in the entire
world.
Today we're discussing Jesus' Mythicism.
Was Jesus a historical figure or was he a mythological figure or something in between?
My guest today is Elliot Saxon who is a content creator behind Brave New History which focuses
on early Christian history, narcissism, Islam, and the formation of these ideas.
We will look at Mythicism as I just mentioned and discuss whether or not Jesus is mythological
or historical.
Welcome my guest, Elliot Saxon.
Hello, hello, thank you for having me.
So this is a controversial subject, but it shouldn't be, but there's definitely two
camps on the internet and when I asked the audience, it seems to be quite split in the
middle of the Deep Drinks audience.
So before we jump into it, let's talk about what we're drinking.
What are we drinking today?
I'm drinking black coffee with ice.
Yeah.
You're drinking hot coffee?
I'm drinking hot coffee, but mine is like just a like coffee with soy milk.
So.
Okay.
That's my favorite, favorite type of coffee, besides maybe iced coffee, but yeah, it's
good.
It's good stuff.
So you have a channel called Brave New History.
Can you tell us a little bit about it?
Yeah.
It's a history of religion.
A lot of it is, oh yeah, there it is right there.
So there we see Nasta Koran, I collaborate with him a lot.
Free masonry here and there.
Oh, and there's Dr. Litwa right there.
We're actually talking about, well, I thought I was, yeah, we're actually talking about
another interview coming up, which would be cool.
But yeah, Christian Origins, a lot about speculating into the origins of Islam and possible Gnostic
origins of it, which is pretty interesting.
That's wild to me to think that there could be Gnostic Origins to Islam.
I mean, I'm getting blown away by the Gnostic Origins of Christianity.
So you know.
Well, yeah, I mean, that's one idea is Gnostic Origins.
But then again, like as Litwa says, like Gnosticism is such a slippery term that either River
City Film.
His River City Films is one of the members, so I always try to make sure I bring up their
members comments.
If you don't want to become a member, just click the Join button that really helps out
this channel.
I do want to quickly mention as well that this isn't just a regular old stream.
This is a exciting stream because it's kind of the preface to something that I've been
wanting to do for a long time, and it's going to be a new thing on Deep Drinks.
Thank you, yourself, and Godless Engineer will be doing the first Deep Drinks debate.
So we're going to be launching that next week, is it?
So this is going to be super exciting.
So I'm going to press, I'm going to share the screen right now.
Here's Deep Drinks, and I'm about to press the Save button.
And now we'll reload.
And we should see it pop up, hopefully.
Boom!
We have did Jesus exist historically?
So we've had Godless Engineer John Gleason on the channel before to talk about this
very subject.
And so he gave a very strong position for Mythosystems, so if you're interested in that, go check
out that episode.
And today, you come down on the historical side of things, so we'll be discussing that.
And then we'll bring it all together for a Deep Drinks debate.
So this will be a really exciting one.
So make sure you subscribe, smash that Like button, it helps the algorithm.
And yeah, very excited.
Very, very excited.
Yeah.
And hopefully, tonight, I'll share my Mythosystems finishing move here, to which there's no
defense.
So it doesn't matter if he knows what it is, because there's no defense to it.
It's a slam dunk.
You know, I'll turn and start live on air.
Let me try to tell the historicity.
Cool, cool.
So I thought we could put a good place to start is we could actually like do a steel
man of the historical Jesus, Jesus as history.
And then we could attack that position.
And then we could do a steel man of Jesus as mythological.
And then we could attack that position.
And so I was hoping we could do a bit of both.
Yeah.
What do you think?
A good idea?
No, yeah, for sure.
And just as I was, you know, thinking about, you know, doing a debate with historicists
with mythosists, it would be funny if you have certain certain phrases that would set
off.
Now you have to take a drink.
Right.
The historicist appeals to lost writings, to a lost sayings tradition.
Take a drink.
Right.
Yeah.
If mythosist accuses historicists of being ad hoc, then take a drink.
But I was, I was, I'm still trying to work out the gimmick of that, but it would be pretty
funny to like get a little shot every time the audience like says great point or something
and like, like, it's like, it's like a tag team.
I don't know, but can't get too messy, obviously, but, but yeah, I'm thinking of some ideas.
Anyone has any ideas?
I'll post them in the comments down below, but so Jesus as history.
So give us the best steelman version of Jesus as a historical living, breathing, breathing
person.
Give us the steelman of that from your perspective.
So I would say the best argument for historicity is that it's just the simplest answer that
there was a real guy who started it.
So when you're talking about, you know, other things like, well, there's a lot of themes
from mystery cults and, you know, they're bringing off, bringing traditions together.
There's syncretism, which is true, but I think the simplest explanation is there was a real
guy that was at the core of it.
I think that's the best argument for historicity.
It's nice and simple.
And then mythicists will be howling, I'm sure, in the audience when I say this, but there
is independent attestation for Jesus, multiple independent sources.
So there's the dideke, which means the teaching, and it's like an instruction manual.
Some people consider it a canon early on, short book, and it's very different from what
we see in the Gospels and the Pauline epistles.
And so I would say that's independent because it seems non-Pauline, that there's a separate
tradition it's pulling from, right?
We have Josephus.
A lot of people say, well, he's not independent, but he's darn close, right?
And there's so much parallel.
Maybe somebody is taking from the other, which is a way to counter that, but we have Josephus.
Clearly we have, I mean, I think every mythicist will say that the authentic Pauline epistles
are legit.
And that's, I mean, that describes a real Jesus.
I mean, there's certain, like, one day we'll meet him up in the sky.
That seems a little bit out there, right?
But yeah, there are, you know, several verses that talk about an historical Jesus.
Captain Cole just became a member, I believe.
Thank you so much, Captain Cole.
I really appreciate your support.
Yeah, so to me, it's like, it's really, to me, it's like we have the Pauline letters,
and they're the first things that we have, right?
And I'm going to give you the two-year-olds kind of, explain it to me like I'm two.
I'm going to try and restate it.
So we have the Pauline letters, the letters written by Paul, to the churches.
And then after that, so they were written first, and then after that, we have the Gospels,
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, which retell the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus.
I can see the desire for someone to say it's myth, which is, to me, is the thing that makes
me a bit, what's the word, weary, like I'm a bit like, this would be really nice for
atheists and skeptics to say it's all myth.
It'd be really nice for them because it solves a lot of issues.
And God was an engineer, and I got into that back and forth, and we very much disagreed,
but we're still friends and everything's good.
But so, yeah, so to me, Gospels, so what is, so do you think the Gospels are historically
reliable, even though they mention things like miracles and resurrections, and how do you get
around that?
Yeah, you really can't.
They're not terribly historical.
You wouldn't rely on them independently as history.
So the parts that are attested to in Josephus, that he was crucified, he was ordered to die
by Pontius Pilate, right?
Those are historical, but yeah, it's hard to get history out of the Gospels.
You could say that things in common with all four might be more likely to be historical,
but then they probably just borrowed all of it from, they all just kept them in the mark
and stuff, right?
Well, John doesn't use Mark, does he?
Well, that's a matter of debate, if John knows Mark at all.
I'm inclined to say yes, because, but yeah, but it's debatable.
Meredith has brought up a good point.
Sounds like a witness testimony.
It must be true.
Yes, just like every other religion.
Absolutely.
It was written down.
It must be true.
So it is interesting, though, because you're saying that the Gospels can't be relied on for history.
They're the main source that we use to kind of talk about what Jesus lived and did in his life,
and that to me causes a bit of a problem, and I'm just trying to play devil's advocate here.
How do we rectify that?
Where are you getting the historicity of Jesus from, if not from the Gospels?
Well, yeah, so that is a good point that I'm kind of maybe sympathetic to the
Methodist position in that regard, because it's like, well, he didn't walk on water.
There's no like miraculous catch of fish, right?
Though, so what I would say, in addition to, you know, other sources, right?
Josephus among them.
Like if it's a testetune, Josephus, it's pretty solid.
But the authentic Pauline epistles.
So even in, like when we're a Methodist appealing to the authentic Pauline epistles to try to say,
well, that verse is interpolated and, you know, probably something, you know,
there's some redactions here, right?
That he's still talking about a church that already exists.
He's late to the game in it, right?
There's Peter and James and John that are head of the church.
So to me, like when we're doing a debate on Methodism versus Historicism,
it's like, yeah, there we go.
Like the Methodist has created like a Ninja Warrior course that they want you to go through
and say, what about this?
And what about this?
And what about this that Paul says, right?
And what about what is it?
First Clement and the Ascension of Isaiah.
But it doesn't matter because Paul attests to a pre-Pauline church.
And there's no, there's nothing about them getting visions and relying solely on visions,
right?
So I think it's kind of, that's the end of the story, right?
Historical, but by his account, right?
But then, I mean, there's the verses that are contested by Methodists, right?
So there's one that sounds bad.
So it's like kind of where a lot of anti-Semitism comes from.
But the Jews killed Jesus just like the prophets, right?
So Paul says that in 1 Thessalonians.
And Methodists have to be, have to say that's not legit, right?
Because at least with on the history of, the historicity of Jesus, he's crucified in like
another realm, right?
Like another heaven, right?
So kind of to your question, yeah, I mean, the Gospels, I mean, it's kind of everybody's
on their own in terms of how to get history from it.
But we can look at Josephus, for example, like there's a lot of other people that are
sighted, but he's early.
And then Pauline epistles.
It is, so if you could like sum up like the, so the best piece of evidence is this is the
most easiest explanation, right?
What is, if you could give like another two pieces of like evidence that you would say
really solidify, what would be the next two best pieces of evidence that solidify a historical Jesus?
Yeah, so let's see.
And I know that I'm giving, I know that I'm giving Godless Engineering just amazing
points to prepare and attack you on.
So, but, you know, it'll be a fun debate.
But yeah, I mean, I guess there's there's one like a like a critical there's an idea
in biblical criticism that if somebody says something that's a bit off and original, right?
So there's certain sayings, which the mythicists are not, they don't like the sayings traditions
thing, because among other things that it kind of like it's game over at that point,
if it's true, so they have to be against it.
But like there's the millstone saying where it's better for someone to like have a millstone
hung on their neck and thrown into the water.
That's attested to in 1st Clement, which interestingly on the historicity of Jesus,
they say is early, which to me is plausible.
And so there's a sayings tradition and then there's there's Q that that has to be early,
perhaps earlier than Paul.
So what they all share in common like,
yeah, hit the like button, everybody.
But yeah, the same.
I'm popping off messages that I am listening at the same time.
But yeah, so so you say Q.
Yeah, or sayings traditions generally that they're like, so the mythicist position
would say that everything or a lot of things are old, which they are all Testament.
And they put it in the mouth of Jesus or put actions that he's doing,
have Jesus doing them.
But there's the millstone saying there's not really anything like that in the Old Testament.
And it just appears out of nowhere, right?
And it's the concept is then the concept that then that leads credence to a historical Jesus
because it's put on the mouth of Jesus.
Essentially, yeah, that it's it's an unusual thing to say we don't have anybody saying it.
Before he does or before it's put into his mouth.
So it kind of makes you think maybe at least there's an early tradition that's associated with him.
Right.
So maybe it's not like the Gospels or acts where that tradition kind of comes up later
that there's a lot of time in between for different traditions to kind of blend together.
So we have Godless engineer in the chat writing down notes, I'm sure,
to for the debate that's coming up, which is going to this.
I'm so so excited to start doing debates on this channel.
It's going to be awesome.
So still meaning the historical account of Jesus is is it's easiest explanation.
We've got specific sayings that are attributed to Jesus that we just don't know where they've come
from kind of thing.
And is there anything else that's like it like stand out like you mentioned Josephus.
Is that good evidence for a historical Jesus?
Yeah.
Okay.
Why is that?
I don't know much about Josephus.
So he was a Jewish priest or rabbi, I guess you could say.
He was commissioned by Rome to write history.
And so you would think that his testimony would be a little bit hostile since he's not a Christian.
And yeah, we we get a lot of history from him.
I mean, it's generally reliable.
There's certain certain things that we kind of scratch your head about.
But yeah, it's generally legit as far as okay.
So if we were to then attack so we've moved from the steelman now to the attacking of Jesus as a historical figure.
What would you say if you had to attack the position of a historical Jesus not not necessarily
giving credence to a minimal mythos position or mythological position?
Well, I guess it would be technically.
But let's just say you're just attacking the idea that Jesus historically existed.
What would you say?
Yeah.
So being on the mythos side is just a little bit more fun because it's like you can just kind of make up.
Like, I mean, that sounds bad, but like just like poking holes in the whole thing can be like,
well, where's the coinage?
You should have coins printed off him.
He didn't write a text text himself.
The yeah, but how would we how would we I guess attack the idea that Jesus is historical?
Well, it's not moving on to not not moving on to Jesus myth myth, the Jesus myth theory yet,
but just Jesus like how do we attack that position?
Like what would be untrue?
What would we have to discover to be true untrue for in order for us to question the historicity of Jesus?
Well, yeah.
So I think lack of evidence where maybe some might expect it.
So like Gospel of Jesus, for example, or coinage.
I mean, maybe we want to expect coins.
I know like it's been brought up previously that you have hostile attestation.
So like somebody going off on Jesus saying how he's dumb and and terrible.
He's a charlatan, right?
So if you have something like that, that would be that would be good.
But we don't see anything like that, right?
So we don't have like the the transcript of the Sanhedrin
that sentence into or allegedly I had something to do with this.
So is that is that is that would that be the best way to like attack the position?
Like is there anything else we can use to like attack the historicity of Jesus?
Like to me when I think of like I am I am currently a Jesus historicist.
I don't know what that really means.
And that's mainly because and this is the same thing I brought up with
GE when I was on his channel is because I haven't looked into it enough.
It's not something I'm super interested in, but I'm also a little bit interested.
But I just I tend to just point to consult a consensus scholarship.
And there's definitely some problems that GE pointed that out.
You know, people like Michael Kona like losing jobs because they
they disagree with the statement of faith or something.
So yeah, I definitely see that.
But but just as a default for me, I usually try to point to consensus scholarship
if I don't know enough about the area.
And this is why it's exciting to have people like yourself on and GE on to come
to debate this subject because maybe I will find enough information to sway my opinion.
But so when it comes to when it comes to Jesus's history myself,
if I was to try and steal men like attack the position of Jesus being historical,
I would say things like, you know, it just seems convenient that there are all these
like apocalyptic preachers of the time.
It just seems like I could imagine that the stories of all these apocalyptic preachers
preachers running around, get kind of mashed together into one.
And then the surviving kind of cults out of all of these kind of groups kind of.
I mean, you've got like if you I just look at like society today and I see like,
you've got like Hillsong, right?
And Hillsong is a mega church huge all over the world like crazy, right?
And then out of Hillsong came, we're not necessarily out of Hillsong, but like the most
there's a new groups like Bethel that kind of came out of that that era,
which is like trying to be a bit more spiritual.
But and then Hillsong kind of attaches this roots back to AOG,
Assemblies of God Pentecostal Church and Assembly is a God Pentecostal Church,
come back from the Pentecostal movements.
And so like you can you can draw it all back and like the stroke,
there's millions of little churches everywhere around.
But like eventually people just go to the one that's the best.
And maybe that's where Jesus came from.
Maybe that the idea of Jesus is the bunch of apocalyptic preachers.
There's stories about them written, you know, healing people and things like that.
And then it all just gets mashed together.
That's how I would probably attack the Jesus history position myself.
Do you have any thoughts on that?
Yeah, I mean, so kind of like a lot of people do, it's a little bit of a scale, right?
So that the, you know, the Jesus, we see like the miracle walking on water, right?
Most people really don't necessarily believe that that happened, right?
But then purely made up, right, is on the other side of things, right?
There was never a person named Jesus that actually lived, right?
That's the other end.
So I mean, as far as syncretism, which is kind of mashing things together,
that certainly took place.
There were those apocalyptic preachers, which I mean, when times are crazy,
right, the crazies come out, right?
And they're talking about the end of the world, which a lot of people are drawn to
that concept of Jesus, which I don't know, it could be.
And are we conflating multiple, you know, in like the legendary Jesus,
are we conflating multiple people together?
It could be, right?
Where I know, like for example, in the Gospel of John,
there's the miraculous drought of fish of the 153 fish, if you remember that,
and they count the fish, there's 153.
Pythagoras did a strikingly similar miracle before Jesus did that, right?
So they're kind of saying, yeah, yeah, so, and then 153 is the number of the fish,
right, within ancient, because I mean, I don't want to bore everybody, but
we have, like we're forming a cross, right?
So we're, you bring in two circles, right, the Vesica Pisces, right?
And then so it'll be lengthwise and widthwise, that it'll kind of form our cross, right?
And then it'll be, I believe, 265, it's a close approximation.
It's not, it doesn't form like a real number, right?
And then 153 the other way, right?
So for that reason, it was said to be the number of the fish, 153.
And then in Pythagoras' version, he did, they don't say what the number is,
but he says, if I guess the number, will you let them go?
No, will you give them to me?
And then he gets, he guesses the number and then they say, well,
what do you want us to do with the fish?
And he says, put them back and they all survive.
And that's the miracle.
Okay.
So, I mean, just like he's being equated with Moses, right?
So like the walking on water, Jesus kind of does it better, right?
He's walking on the water.
Yeah, we are, we are doing that.
There's a lot of, you know, syncretism going on.
But yeah, I mean, wanting to do it better, right?
Like we have Memesis, right?
With appealing to the Bacchai, right?
Like so with Paul, he's kind of like, oh, you like, because Paul is
everybody to everyone to try to convert people, right?
He's like, oh, you like the Bacchai?
Well, you'd never believe that Jesus, when I first met him,
he quoted the Bacchai to me, right?
So it's kind of, it's like anything to win people over,
which I think is the Pauline church, is the Pauline way to do things,
because he's just trying to grow it by any means necessary.
So if we could move on to Jesus' mythological, how would you steelman that?
And I know GE is very excited to hear how you steelman this position,
because I think it'll do well for him in the debate.
Yeah, I mean, I was maybe most impressed with the whole,
you know, they're not a fan of the Deutero Pauline epistles,
the ones that are not seen as legit, right?
So like those, but they also have to be, because like First Timothy straight up says
he was ordered killed under Pontius Pilate, so that gives up the game.
So you have to be, but saying like the authentic Pauline epistles,
there's not a lot of specifics, really, like this happened and this happened, right?
So you can kind of see how they're like, well, it's just this nebulous thing that
what's even going on, right?
So I'm kind of sympathetic to, I can see how you can read it that way,
and say, well, the baby there wasn't going to start Jesus at all, right?
And then kind of going into the whole like lack of documents for the first and second century,
like, well, we don't know, right?
There's just, there's not a whole lot.
So I'm kind of sympathetic to that.
So do you, if you, if you had to be a myth, if like you have this magic box, let's pretend you
have this like magic box, and you can ask it questions, and it will tell you whether or not
you're mistaken about something, and whether or not something's true, and you ask it, you know,
was Jesus historical, and it says no, and it won't give you any more information.
What, and but you just knew that Jesus was in some way mythological,
what would be the best, or like, how would you, what type of mythicist, I guess, would you be?
Would you be the type of mythicist that says everything that was written in the Gospels
was about something that happened in the celestial realm, or would you be someone that just says,
it's all bullshit made up by the Catholic Church to take out pennies?
Like, what would you, how would you, what would you, what would be the type of mythicist that you would be?
What would you, what would be the type of mythicist that you would be?
Well, yeah, it would be, it'd be tricky. I don't know if like real person with mythology
grafted down, that would still be historicist, so I couldn't pick that.
Well, I'll grant you that you can have some guy named Jesus, but let's say like 95% of your stuff is,
is not accurate, not 99%.
Yeah, I mean, and then at that point, how do we gauge the percentages on that?
Like, he had like a big church, right, or a big following.
Then we're kind of back to straight up historicism again.
But I, well, so there's like what I think would be cool to be true, and then what I think would
actually be true, like, I like the idea of mystery called origins to Christianity.
Like, that's probably my favorite conspiracy version, right?
But I don't think it's legit, right, it's, it's really neat to speculate on.
So I would maybe choose that one just because it's so cool, right, that we could just kind of say
like, it's made up like,
like a legend to bring people, to initiate people into our, into our cult.
But in terms of something that I would defend as actually being true,
yeah, I guess, maybe a Jesus that's wildly different.
Like, Zealot Jesus, I don't know if that would count as mythicists.
I haven't read that book, is that book by, who is, who's that book?
Uh, Lena Einhorn, what is it called, the Jesus mystery?
Yeah, is that, is that, what can give us some time to that book quickly?
Yeah, so there's some kind of quirky things going on in acts,
which everybody is going to say, well, yeah, that's so late.
But when is the dating of acts?
I haven't actually looked into that.
Um, I think it's like mid second century.
I might be.
Okay, damn.
You're kind of on a look now.
I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, you keep explaining.
Oh, sure.
So there's this, um, Egyptian that leads a revolt, right, um, against Rome.
And then he runs off into the, the wilderness and he's never seen from again.
And then there's this interesting part where a Roman soldier comes up to Paul and says,
you're not that Egyptian that led a revolt sometime ago, are you?
Right.
And he's like, no, I'm a Roman citizen.
And that's the end.
But it's such a weird thing to say that kind of makes you wonder what is the author trying
to say there, right?
Yeah, it looks like the acts was written in between 70 and 90 CE by Luke looks like.
Well, um, so I think that might be like a more conservative source.
Um, so like people don't, so people will generally say that Luke and acts have the same
author, but they don't say that Luke actually wrote acts.
It's just attributed to him.
And we have, we have reason to think that acts is much later than Luke.
Hmm.
All right.
Um, so, uh, have you read?
So what do you read?
Have you read?
So what, what Jesus myth is this literature?
Have you read, um, or I know that you're halfway through, um, the, uh, the, on the
history of history of Jesus?
Yeah.
I mean, that's it.
I mean, what, I don't know.
I'm curious what else is there?
That's all I know of is on the history of Jesus.
Oh, there's, um, David Fitzgerald, right?
Um, which, um, his mythicism is, is a bit different.
It's, I think he, like, um,
Yeah.
But isn't, isn't, uh, doesn't he come to an agnostic, um, position, um,
like at the end of that, like solidly mythicist, but with this, it's like, um,
on the history of Jesus is kind of dealing with the,
it's kind of, it's dealing with the historical Jesus, right?
And what would that would be like?
And then kind of taking that off the table where, uh, David Fitzgerald is, is kind of
showing how these are all myths and these have been done before and these are repeated.
So this is probably not legit.
So it's kind of like, um, our,
how do we honestly, like the conservative Christian idea of Jesus probably is not the case.
Um, but, uh, on the history of Jesus is kind of a little bit more harsh, I guess we could say.
Um, uh, Papa Aaron Coulson, who's the Pope of Deep Drinks, uh, the highest here on Patreon.
I'm somewhere in the camp of acts being written around 115 CE.
That's interesting.
I'd like to learn more about that.
Why do you think that Aaron, if you could type in the chat?
It is, um, and in regards to, in regards to the historicity, do you have any book recommendations?
Um, I know that Bart Ehrman has a book on the history of Jesus.
I mean, there's not a lot as far as I know.
I know Bart Ehrman, he had, what's his book?
But yeah, he has one and that's all I'm aware.
There's some like, um, really old books on the historicity, but they're not terribly,
um, they're a little bit conservative in what they're trying to defend.
Um, but yeah, it's, um, people don't really touch on the subject because it's just kind of like,
come on, like there's no
structure, like historical structure behind Jesus.
That's, that's just crazy, right?
People just kind of don't really respond to, to mythicism.
So I just posted the links to them all in the chat.
Godless Engineer and Caitlyn have pointed out that, uh, did Jesus exist as the book?
And it's not peer reviewed, uh, and the, on the historicity of Jesus is, um, definitely some
fiery comments tonight.
Um, I want to, I want to, I want to remind everyone that, um, that we try to discuss
all types of ideas with all types of people in here.
I don't, I don't, um, don't advocate for the beliefs or perspectives of anyone.
I think sometimes you have to have ideas that, um, that, uh, that can be, um, deep drinks
isn't a safe space.
If anyone wants to read the full disclaimer that we have here, um, you can read it.
I'll put it down the bottom deep drinks podcast trials for deep conversations about deep topics.
This can include harmful and dogmatic ideologies discussed responsibly.
And you can go to the disclaimer link to, um, read more about that.
But in regards to, um, having conversations about whether or not Jesus existed and
everyone seems to be getting fired up about that.
Um, this, yeah, this is, um, this is what we do.
Um, here we have, uh, conversations from different perspectives.
So, and I'm, and I mean, everyone needs to go check out the Godless Engineer episode
because he'll give a really good, um, perspective on, um, Jesus mythicism and the
debate will be great.
I'm sure.
Uh, so maybe we should do some shots between each, um, it's just a shot of a vodka or
something between each thing.
So if you could, so if we, if we could like the historical account of, um, the mythological
account of Jesus, uh, how do we, like, if you could wrap it up as like these, this is
how you would still man that.
What would you say?
Like, if you could give like an elevator pitch to a steel man, um, yeah, um, I mean,
I would go with the, I mean, your strongest case is the, uh, authentic Pauline epistles
that, uh, they're just vague, you know, um, when they talk about the, uh, the ministry
of Jesus, there, there's not a lot there, right?
And I would go with that.
I think that's your strongest way to, to do it.
And that's really what the, on the history of history of Jesus does.
Um, and then what a lot of mythicists will do, we'll say, like, to defeat the historical Jesus,
they'll keep on attacking the, the legendary Jesus, right?
Yeah.
Like, so it's like, um, oh, come on.
There's the, the hero myth and he's, he satisfies so many aspects of the hero myth.
So how could he be historical, but then we'd have to return to, yeah, but we both agreed
from the outset that that wasn't the Jesus that was historical, right?
But like, I think we just kind of keep on returning to that.
Like, yeah.
But so, so you're saying it's like a, uh, we, the both, both parties are kind of talking
about two separate things.
Is that what you're kind of saying?
Like, like the, the mythicists are defending one thing and the historicity,
historicists are defending another.
Like the historicists aren't saying that, like, Jesus literally walked on water,
et cetera, et cetera, but they're saying that he's a real person.
And the myth, mythicists are saying, well, uh, there's all these, you know, hero, it's like,
um, sorry, I got my brain to do something funny.
A problem when having a stroke, when I had, uh, Dr. Josh on, he mentioned that,
that, you know, King David is like, um, likely a historical figure.
However, everything's been like heavily spun.
So it's like, you know, it's always like David, the reigning king that comes in and stuff.
And so, so, yeah.
So are you saying that sometimes the history, uh, the mythicists attack that position,
attack the position that, well, this is a hero narrative.
So therefore it's all kind of bullshit.
And then, then the historicist says, well, yeah, there's like hero narratives in there
because we've, we've kind of, um, we've mythologized.
We've kind of legend made this character legendary, uh, bigger than life and miraculous
and all these things when really likely there's somewhere in, in between in the middle is where
probably the truth lies that there probably was some guy, he probably didn't do,
he probably had some profound teachings.
He probably had a big following and, but he probably didn't do the miracles that are attributed to him.
Is that kind of where you would lie and where you see the argument?
Yeah.
And I would be even more generous and say it's more on the bear history side of things where
like even, um, you know, some of the mundane claims like, uh,
being born in Bethlehem, right?
It might not even be the case, right?
And so, yeah, that, I mean, there is a historical kernel to which everything is
kind of all the rumor and speculation has kind of been grafted on to, right?
Is the historical claim, but, um, but yeah, I mean, your question was,
how would we steal man mythicism?
Like, what's the best mythicist argument, right?
Um, I, you know, I think
Yeah, the epistles, um,
I don't know.
I'm trying to be
Yeah.
I don't know.
I'm trying to be fair and come up with what's the best
like stealing all the epistles that, oh, it's just so vague.
I would just maybe belabor that.
I think it was maybe the best strategy to go.
Mm-hmm.
What about if we could steal man the position that the Gospels are talking about a,
like a celestial realm rather than like an earthly realm?
I don't think you can.
Um, and I don't think that's the case being made.
Mm-hmm.
Um, in, on the history of the city of Jesus, that they would just say it's like whole cloth,
nothing, uh, you can't do anything with it, right?
So, I mean, I would say you likely can, but it's really tricky on how you can kind of pull
historicity out of it, right?
And because, I mean, they have Jesus, he's walking, walking around, you can put like,
you can touch him, you can eat with him, right?
He's clearly on the earth.
Um, so, I mean, if you were to put too much historicity in that, like, it would just be
game, like, you know, like he's clearly portrayed as walking around being a human being on earth.
Mm-hmm.
So, I mean, it's kind of game over if you accept, uh, you know, the historicity of the Gospels really.
Mm-hmm.
Okay.
Um, so, all right, well, that's, so that's, that's, okay.
So, you don't have like a really solid steelman, um, but, um, how for the, well, at least for
that, but how would you attack mythicism?
And I'm sure this part's easy because you're not a mythosist, right?
And, uh, so how would you, what, what would you say are like some of the, and I'm going
to throw some questions at you that, um, that I've had from my mythosist friends, but how would
you attack, um, Jesus mythosism?
And guys, please, like, chill out a little bit in the comments, otherwise I will mute you if
you're being disruptive, but, um, so, yeah.
So, how would you steelman, uh, how would you attack the mythosist position?
Um, yeah, that kind of, as we're, like, if we're going to do the, on the historicity of Jesus,
and then we're constructing Bayes Theorem, which is essentially, it's unlikely that
a historical Jesus existed, is what we're saying, that we, in order to do that, we have to accept
so many unlikely things, wildly crazy unlikely, to get to that Jesus is unlikely, right?
Um, like I've said, um, uh, mystery called origins for Christianity, nobody, nobody
thinks that, right?
You have to take interpretations of scripture that nobody does, right?
Even though they're plausible, like I can, I can see the, these interpretations, right?
But at the end of the day, nobody agrees with that, right?
And, um, you, I mean, you have to reject Q, and you have to say all these scholars,
they don't know what they're talking about.
Bart Ehrman, uh, Dennis McDonald, um, Dr. Litwa, right?
They don't know what they're talking about, like, clearly they do, like, they're the most,
like, they're the biggest deals in the world, but you have to, you have to say that, right?
But like, there's, so, I mean, like, so, the most prominent scholars in the world,
think your idea, I mean, not, I mean, that'll sound a lot like, um, what, what, uh,
what's the phrase, uh, argument from prestige, right?
But I mean, these are, these are a lot of unlikely positions, right?
So the interpolation, right?
What would you say to, what would you say to someone who says that, like, the, yes,
it's the consensus, like, at the moment, it's consensus scholarship that Jesus was historical,
but that kind of, it kind of has to be, because, uh, otherwise, like, the, these,
you know, academic institutions would, would shut down, um, their, like, like, these people
will be removed from their positions if they said, yes, I believe I'm a, um, uh, mythosist,
like, um, what do you say to that there is some form of a bias in the, um, like, it's too far out
there. You know what I mean? Um, yeah, I'm sympathetic to that. Um, I mean, so, like,
you could have, like, retired, uh, professors that really don't have, uh, you know, any skin
in the game anymore that could come out and say I'm a mythosist, but we don't really see that.
Um, but I mean, yeah, I mean, especially with, like, the, like, Mike Lacona, he comes and he
said, like, what does he say, walking on water wasn't real or something like that?
Uh, so what do you say? Uh, like, Mike, you mentioned Mike Lacona, right? Oh, he, I think he
rejected the, he, he stated that the, the, um, people rising from the dead, um, the zombies
that weren't really technically zombies because I think zombies have to be brought to life with
voodoo or something, but, um, but technically like the dead rising from the grave and going
through Jerusalem, he said that that was a legendary account. It wasn't historical and he got,
he lost his job for that. Um, and Godless engineer who, um, has just said that Thomas Thompson,
uh, was fired from the university he founded for espousing mythosism. Uh, so, yeah.
And yeah, Mike Lacona was fired for saying zombies, um, might have not really come out of
the graves. Yeah. I mean, that's wild to me. Like it's a university. It's like, wait,
so like zombies don't exist. Like, and this is like fired. Like, this isn't, I mean,
was he working for like AI answers in Genesis or was this like a proper universe? Like that
seems wild to me that that would happen. Um, well, I mean, I would say maybe neither. Like if,
like a lot of these statements of faith are just a little bit, uh, weird, um, that you have, like,
you have to be like, uh, like a millennialist or, I mean, just like, it's just weird. Like,
you should be open to everything. Like that's the purpose is, that's the purpose of higher
education. Right. So yeah, I, I, I get that criticism where, um,
but I mean, that, yeah, no, I mean, yeah, I mean, I think that's probably a good point.
There, there is something that, uh, that Barrowman says that I've heard him say and he says that
he doesn't have much, uh, he doesn't put any credence to the mythos position and, um, and he's
but he says, but if you do want to, um, to, to make this like something that's like actually
taken seriously is you need to have, you need to start getting things peer reviewed and things
like that. And I think that's what, what Bridget Carrier is doing and, uh, and things like that.
Um, but, um, what would you say to someone who said that Paul is there on the independent source?
So like, and except for the Q document, which is hypothetical, or maybe actually,
could you give us a quick introduction, give us a, give us an introduction on what is Q,
but for those of us, um, without such big brains, what does Q mean? What is Q? What is Q?
Yeah. So, um, uh, Q, um, is a, is a figure from Star Trek that, uh, wasn't a mystic and, uh,
he created a source for the Gospels. He went back in time. Um, then there's the alternative
view on Q with it, which is called the Farer hypothesis, um, that so Q is German for, uh,
I think in German means source, because when we're talking about, um, the Bible,
we have to be fancy, you know, and use other languages. So there's, there's in the Bible,
there's Mark, which is generally believed to be the first gospel. And then there's bits that are
common. That's not in Mark, but it's in Luke and Matthew. And so we're just like, that's weird
that it just seems like copy paste. And we're just like, how did that come to be? That maybe
they're using another source, right? And so, um, you know, some people speculate, and I'm
sure like the chat will go wild when I say, uh, Papias, um, for all our, our mythos friends that
there's the, uh, what is it? Expositions on the sayings of our Lord, right? Which is believed
to be like an early sayings tradition. Um, okay. And so it's, so that's might be the
Q source or might be, there might be several independent Q sources,
primarily Jesus's sayings. That's right. Q's part of the common material found in the gospel of
Matthew and Luke and is not in the gospel of Mark. Yeah. So that's a good way to summarize it.
And then thank you.
I really appreciate that. Q's, I'll just read it out for those who might be listening at home.
Q sources, a hypothetically written collection, a collection of primary Jesus sayings. Q's part
of the common material found in the gospels of Matthew and Luke, but not in the gospel of Mark.
Yeah. And we don't have it. So this is something that, that I noticed, uh, GE points out a lot is
we don't actually have it. It's hypothetical. It's like, um, what did, did, was it, someone said
something funny about it earlier? And I can't remember. Was it maybe it was you, but it was
someone posted something funny on one of the, uh, on maybe YouTube. Um, I'll just try and find it.
But yeah, it's, it's, um, it's, it's hypothetical, right? But, but is it like, it's hypothetical,
but is it still justified? Like it can be hypothetical and justified, but is it, um,
Yeah. Well, I guess it depends on who you ask now. So it's the consensus within, um,
the scholarship that Q is legit. And, you know, maybe we'll find it, right? And so we've seen
stuff similar to Q that is not Q, like the gospel of Thomas, which is another thing's, uh, gospel,
which is just like stories of, you know, um, conversations or just simple quips that Jesus
said. Um, and, um, you know, my, my son loves the song, the Lady Gaga song, right? Uh,
put your hands, hands, hands above your head, head, head, like Jesus said, right? So Lady Gaga
has her sayings tradition with, uh, but, um, which let's see. So the gospel of Thomas. Um, and then,
um, it would seem that Paul is tapping into some sayings traditions because he kind of
quotes them throughout the epistles sometimes. But so it's, I mean, I see it even. So,
so what people will, what people say is that Luke took from Matthew and added his own stuff,
right? And that's how you account for Q. That's like, that's, uh, that's like the
Methodist position that there wasn't Q, there wasn't an early sayings, um, gospel, which you
kind of have to say that to be a Methodist, because if there's early independent, uh, gospel,
um, that would date like before Q. Oh, look at that. Yeah. That it kind of gives up the game
for Methodism. I have to say that Q is legit. And so here if we're, so we're looking at that. So
Mark is really tiny. And then we have Luke and Matthew. And then, um, one reason, another reason
to think that that Q is legit is just the stories that occur only in Luke, but not in Matthew.
Yep. Lady Gaga is legit. We have that in the, in the chat. Yeah. Absolutely. And, um, so Luke
is like, like the good Samaritan that's only in Luke, um, the foolish rich man who
he's going to build up this barn to store all his vast wealth, but then he dies
that night. Um, what else? The prodigal son. I think that's only in Luke. Um, so it's kind of like,
along the same themes of like being hospitable, right? And like, um, humble. And then so Matthew
has a lot of the stuff with like the kingdom. So it seems that they're, they're telling their own
story that this is unique to them and that they're using another source, which is an argument, um,
in favor of Q. Interesting. Um, I have a few more questions around that, but I do want to take
a quick moment to, um, shout out a few things. And the first thing is something that I showed
you before we started, and I'm so excited about it. Guys, in two days, we have the slavery panel
coming back to do some apologetic, like to crush some apologetics. And I made what is probably
the funniest thing I'll ever make, uh, in my life. Um, it is the trailer for panel two of the
slavery panel. So let's watch it.
So, yeah, I mean, I love that so much. So, um,
it must have taken forever, uh, to call it with them, right?
How many tasted that? Oh yeah, I got them. I, I flew them all in, you know, and we got them,
you know, but, um, no, it's, uh, I thought it was really funny. Um, so we have, uh, if, if those
who are interested, we actually produce this really big panel and you can go to deepdrinks.com
slash slavery and you can download a PDF and the PDF is what we'll be going through. Um, it's 28 pages
of sources for everything. And we, and it's just wild. So we have the, the slavery apologetics
for those who missed, um, the actual live stream. And we actually categorize each and every one of
the arguments into, into little sections. And then we give, uh, let me just zoom out and then we give
like what you might hear when you're talking to someone who says it's not real slavery.
It wasn't race-based. It was only temporary, blah, blah, blah. And we're going to be going
through this, the panel will be going through this whole list and just pulling apart each one
of these categories. And then at the end of the document, we actually have the quotes from each
person. This is what Jordan Peterson said. This is what Ben Shapiro, Frank Turrick, um, William
Lynn Craig, Mike Winger, um, John McCrae, uh, Alan Parr, Paul Copen, and so on. Doug Wilson,
J. Warner Wallace, Answers and Genesis, the Southern Baptist Seminary, uh, the H.C.S.B. Study
Bible. Like we really did our homework. And then if they delete those videos, because I imagine that,
um, they should hang their heads in shame and walk and walk away with their tail between the legs
after what these guys did to them last time, we actually have the arguments, um, all stated here
where, where, like the, the, um, the links. So people, people know when we've cited them if
the, if the videos get deleted. So this PDF is available to download. Just go and fill in your
details, um, and it'll get emailed to you. And yeah, so if you guys want to check out that stream,
it's going to be in two days. It's going to be wild. It's going to be a lot more fun this time,
lot less academic and a lot more, um, uh, I guess, um, feisty is all you, is all, is the word
I'll use. And of course, if you want to support this channel, you can join. I've seen a couple
of new members. Thank you so much. And you can support us over on Patreon as well. That, um,
means a lot. And of course, if you like, uh, if you like Elliot's, um, content, he's got his channel
Brave, uh, New History, which, um, he's got 644 subscribers. Let's see if we can get that number
up if you like his content. So we're going to, I mean, uh, we're going to postpone the debate
until it's at least 4,000, right? So we're going to sit, we're going to sit there, right? And me and
John aren't going to say anything. Um, but, uh, just, just, just like, just watch it, um, over
and over again. So, and, and of course, like all you fiery people who are just like getting angry
at Elliot, and then there are people who I'm sure will be angry at, um, GE. You can let out your anger
and come along to the first deep drinks debate, which will be really, really cool. Uh, so make
sure you come along to that. Uh, can we see some of the fiery comments?
I mean, no, look, I honestly, it'll, it'll, uh, it's not necessary. Let's just save it. Let's just
save it for the, uh, let's, let's, it's essentially when you'll say something, they'll say, that's
not true. Or that's not the, not, that's not what Memphis has to say. And like, um, I mean, I could
sit here arguing with you all day, but I'm trying to, trying to, you know, conduct an interview
as well. So we'll, we will drop into some Q&A actually. So it'd be a good idea if you guys
have some questions, throw some well recent questions in the chat, um, not a tax, not Elliot,
you're, um, you don't know anything, but like, you can say that as long as it's super kind of
with high money. So, and, uh, yeah. And check, check those questions in and I'll make sure to
read them, but I just do want to touch on a few last things before we round up the interview.
And we were going to do some slides, but I don't think we have time.
I was going to give down the game, my whole game thing and everything, but, you know,
so, um, so what do you think about, so could you touch a little bit more about like the first
century mystery cults and like how we do have some things that have come over from Zoroastrianism
or at least appear to, what do you think about that? Like, what doesn't that lend, uh, credence to
the idea that the, that Jesus was kind of mythological rather than historical that
we see this, this idea, these ideas developing? Uh, yes and no. So, um, I do, so I did a presentation
on my channel about both reasons to believe that Christianity has mystery cult origins and then
also why not. And of course, though, why not kind of putting the cold water on everything is much
less popular than the why, you know, but, um, no, there's a whole bunch of Zoroastrian influence
on Christianity. So like hell, demons, which we get a bit of that in Judaism, right? With, uh,
like the, the later we start to see a little bit of demons, um, the whole, um, savior
or Messiah thing. So that is a Zoroastrian concept where, um, a descendant of Zoroaster
is going to be the savior, right? So we see that in, um, Islam, the Mahdi is going to be a descendant
of Muhammad and we see that the Messiah is going to be a descendant of David, right? So that theme
reoccurs. Um, and then what other themes do we see, um, in Zoroastrianism and Christianity?
Demons are a huge thing that's not really present so much in Judaism. So yeah, I mean, that's legit
and like they did have rituals just like, um, the Yom Kippur ritual, opening up the Holy of Holies
and sprinkling blood on the Ark of the Covenant. That was only for the High Priest and only that
one day. So you could kind of see maybe there's a, um, a mystery cult thing going on there, but
really Judaism's or astringism don't lend themselves well to mystery cults and that like
it was well known what they were doing and what the ritual was that it wasn't a secret. It was
this common knowledge and the scripture was known by everybody, right? So it's, there wasn't really
a secret. So I mean, um, there is, um, there was a sect of Christianity, right? The Julian tradition
that, which is J-E-U has nothing to do with like, uh, Judaism. Well, I mean, it does, but
that's not where the name comes from. It's like, it's believed to be the real name of God.
It was J-E-U. Um, and that is straight up looks a whole lot like a mystery cult, but that's quite
late. Um, so we can't really talk about, uh, mystery cult origins with it. But, um, hopefully that
answers the question. Have you, um, what are your thoughts on, um, on the historicity of Jesus
or Chikariah?
Well, not to offend anybody, although there's a lot of broad statements
which are just not the case, right? Just like all mystery cults, like this is kind of in the
beginning, uh, do X. Like the main person of the mystery cult is always the Son of God. We
know that's not the case, like with Mithras. Um,
I mean, it can be argue, like, like Demeter, I don't know, maybe, like we don't know definitively,
but like a lot of sweeping statements. And what is it like? I can't come up with that they all,
they're all, or often born of a virgin, right? Um, and then there's the whole, um,
Isaiah 53, that there's a strong messianic prophecy tradition in Judaism. Um, there's just
not with Isaiah 53. It's just not, um, and they quote the Targama Jonathan.
That is something that I am interested in talking about because, um, it's interesting because
one of the big things that, you know, I kind of learned leaving Christianity is, you know,
the Jewish perspective of Isaiah 53 is it's not prophesying in Messiah. It's not prophesying
Jesus or it's not prophesying Jesus. It's talking about Israel. Uh, but then, and so I thought that
was definitely the, um, I thought that was like the, the, the case. Um, uh, but, but yeah. Um,
but, um, we just had a super chat. Can we get a clear answer if you've read on the
Historicity of Jesus? Thank you, Aaron Coulson. Yeah. I mean, I've read through it, but not
like every word in it. Um, but I mean, you stand it? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's, so I mean,
um, if I could sum it up like there's the ascension of Isaiah, they're really into that,
Inanna, um, which is that we, we get the idea of, um, somebody descending and they're more and
more humiliated. That's kind of where Isaiah 53 comes in. Um, and then we're, we talk a lot about
like how we can't trust these sources, then it's all about, um, the, uh, the Paulina pistols.
Um, what else? Um, but yeah, did, did, um, so GE just commented, uh, you need to show evidence of
Isaiah 53 not being a messiah prophecy. So don't we have, don't we have like, don't the Jewish, uh,
the Jews don't accept that as a messiah prophecy, right? Well, I mean, I don't think
I think it's miss, miss Yannick. So that's another thing that it's like, or about Jesus,
I can't remember. The system of the burden of proof really, like if that is the pillar of your
argument, you need to show that it's true, not you can't disprove that it's not true,
right? Or you can't disprove that it is true. But so yeah, I mean, all you'd have to look at the
Targum of Jonathan, um, which is, is like a translation where they kind of bring in the
that so apologists will selectively quote from it to make it look like it's a messianic prophecy.
Yeah. Right. So I mean, this has been done to death. Like, um, this is kind of like, uh,
tovia singers career, right? And you can go to any Jewish scholar and they can, or any, um,
uh, synagogue, they'll have the Targums, um, on the wall or on the shelves, like you can
pull it out and read it. You can, you can read Isaiah, just read Isaiah 50 through 55, right?
Um, and then you'll, it'll be clear to you that they're talking about Israel,
not a, uh, celestial being that's going to come to earth and, um, and die. And then, but then,
okay, so, and here's my, here's my other thing with Isaiah 53. Let's, okay, let's seed the point
that is messianic, right? They're talking about an earthly guy there. They're talking about,
like, uh, he's going to be like deformed. He's going to be, um, I have a hard knock life. He's
going to be very human, right? He's going to like, they're placing him in like earthly terms, right?
He's not like an angel in, in heaven. So I mean, it's almost like we can construct a,
you know, that superhero pushing a button meme on what, what are we doing with Isaiah 53? Either
way, it's just kind of, are you going to follow it or not, right? And then you would follow it to,
like, um, like earthly, right? If you, if that's your interpretation of it, just like, um,
but, but yeah, that's, yeah, because like, yeah, there's the other problem as well. You see that,
to me, when I read Isaiah 53 from, I wear my God glasses, my, my, my New Testament glasses,
I can see Jesus all through it. However, um, in, from what I understand, the, um, the suffering
servant, um, in, in the other parts of Isaiah, uh, in references, um,
uh, Israel, the suffering servant is not Messiah. And also, I don't even think it is,
like it's, I don't even think that technically it is talking about, um, the Messiah, because the
Messiah wasn't, look, I'm talking about my, this is becoming too Joe Rogan ask for my liking,
where we're just kind of speculating on, um, on stuff. Um, well, at least from my, my perspective,
but yeah, it just seems to me, to me, I was actually taken aback when I did read part of,
and I haven't gotten all the way through it. Um, and I cut, because I only had a week to prepare
when GE came on the channel. Um, and so I was kind of speeding through, um, listening to on the
hystericity. And, um, I was kind of shocked to actually, uh, hear about, hear that. And I'll be
interested to, to kind of, um, to get GE's perspective on that when, I guess, uh, during the
debate, um, we can have a Q and A at the end and I can kind of, um, bring that up. But, um,
yeah, so, so do you, so you, I guess, I imagine that you don't accept Isaiah 53 as being a,
like a messianic, um, scripture or a scripture about Jesus. You see it as Israel.
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Cool. Um, so, um, just, just as we kind of wrap up this interview, um,
and, um, I wanted to ask you a little bit about your journey. So you mentioned that you were
once a Christian. Are you a Christian now? I mean, I wouldn't describe myself as, as Christian.
Yeah. Did, um, was there anything, was there anything that you kind of found in your,
in your research that, that got you to kind of deconstruct your faith or was it completely
separate and not really relevant? No, yeah, absolutely. So I grew up, uh, evangelical Christian.
So there's the evangelical free church, uh, which is based here in Minnesota in the United States
and, um, very conservative. Like, so it'd be, uh, the gospels were written by eyewitnesses, right? And, um,
um,
Trinitarian, I mean, I mean, I mean, that's not that unusual, but, uh, yeah, very conservative.
And then I was just kind of learning apologetics and I was just kind of surprised as I learned
more that it's, it's such weak sauce, right? That nobody thinks that these are written by the,
by eyewitnesses. Nobody thinks that. There's no reason to think that.
Well, I mean, there is, but there's no good reason to think it. Yeah. And, um, what else? I remember,
um, you know,
Faith Elliott, you're gonna have faith that were written, you're gonna have faith that were written
by the right sources, right? There you go. And then that's another thing. Like, why? Like, it doesn't
even say it. Like, and just like, just like these, um, like when we're talking about, uh, inerrancy
and we're like, that's not even a biblical thing, right? Where does it say that the Bible is
an inherent? Like, why is that? Yeah. And I actually posed this question to Megan Lewis,
right? She's a Christian and, um, but she's like a fun Christian. She's a very progressive Christian.
And she says, um, and I said, you know, well, where in the Bible does it say that you're supposed to
write down the words of Jesus and, and pull all into one big cannon and then use that to argue
about abortion rights? Like, where does it say that in, and she's like, it doesn't. And I'm like,
yeah. So, and I was like, is it, but isn't it interesting that, you know, God, according to the
very text that it's that we read, like God gave us the Holy Spirit. What if it was not God's plan
that we were to write down anything? What if God wanted us to only witness with the Holy Spirit?
What if it, and then she was like, oh, that's a good point. And I was like, what if it could even
be the devil? It could have even been the devil's plan to write the Bible, right? Like, you could,
you could make an argument, like how you could make an argument that, that it was all the devil's
plan that God wanted us to use the Holy Spirit to witness to people. It even says a clearest day
in the Bible, the Holy Spirit is the inner witness. So it's like, um, yeah, I don't know. Like, I've
always, I've always ponder that, but then people will come back with, uh, the, the verse and revelations,
right? And, and pretend that that may, like that talks about everything, uh, not a jottle
tittle will be changed or something like that. And, but they, they, they kind of project that back
onto the whole Bible and New Testament and New Testament. Yeah. Yeah. What's the irony of that
is revelation was among the last books to be added to the canon. And so it's kind of funny to say
if anybody adds or subtracts from this book, like that's what you're doing when you add
revelation to the canon. Yeah. Yeah. And then I, this is a bit of a, and then, and then the, and
then that didn't really work very well. And then Christianity was like all divided and stuff. And
then, um, you know, 600 years later, um, Muhammad's like, you know what, I'm going to write something
that's like the final perfect. I'm going to make it very clear that nothing can ever be added to
this, nothing. And then we have Islam. It's like the last testament. You know, that's a joke. But
yeah, you can see how, you can see how, um, the, the formulation of that thought, right? In, in,
in, um, Near Eastern religions where it's like, it's like, we have the autism and Jesus comes
and say, okay, now this is it. This is like the final, you know, Dan's coming. This is the final
thing. And then, you know, with them, with Islam, the same thing. This is, this cannot be changed.
This is, this is exactly what God said. Like it's not even, it's word for word. God's, uh,
spoke in Arabic, like, you know, so, um, yeah. So it's interesting. You see that kind of develop.
And it's like, if we just have something that can't be changed, everything will be fine.
But then obviously society changes and then, and, um, yeah. Yeah. Um, okay. So I've got some
questions for you. Uh, and, um, if someone's got some questions, throw it, tag me in the chat.
But, um, these are questions I ask a lot of people. Um, but I'll throw in a new one. Um,
what would it take for you to accept mythicism? That's a good question.
Um, I guess I convincing argument, which I mean, that's, that's cheating to say, but, um,
because that's like, um, circular. Um,
like when someone says, like God did it for reasons sufficient to him, it's like, okay.
Um, I'd have to be,
so I mean this, I don't think I'd be convinced by this, um, you know, cosmic sperm bank,
you know, Jesus existing in, in a higher plane thing on different levels of heaven.
Um, I don't know, early
hostile testimony saying he's made up. Um, like Paul, you're crazy. Like, you know,
like maybe something like that. I don't know. Like what would be a good, I mean,
like, uh, you'd have to overcome significant, uh,
like with, uh, first, that's alone in, right? Chapter, uh, one and two, like where they're
talking about, um, um, the whole thing about Jesus's death. Um,
um, I have to come with a something quite convincing about all that's interpolated.
Um, where, you know, from what's on the, in the history of history of Jesus is
kind of weak sauce to me. Um, and the scholarly overwhelming scholarly opinion is that it's
not interpolated. Um, but I don't know, like that would, I mean, if you kind of get rid of every
reference in the Pauline epistles, I mean, that would be a good argument.
Hmm. Um, everyone knows that atheists become atheists because they love to sin.
What was the sin you left your faith for?
Uh, well, actually it's, it's the opposite way around. I mean, a lot of people think that, uh,
it's, so people join Christianity because they want, they don't want to be accountable to their
sin. So they have Jesus die for them. So if you believe that you have Jesus dying for your sins,
that's because you don't want to be accountable to your sins, but I want to be accountable to
my sins. So I'll, I'll just say that's okay. Like I, I can, I can do it. Right. Um,
no, I'm just, I'm just joking. Um, what's my favorite sin? Um, I don't believe in sin. Like,
so I'm a little bit, um, sympathetic to narcissism, where I believe like in virtue and vice,
not sin per se.
Um, my favorite sin is coffee and cause is that a sin? I don't know. X, X Mormon. Yeah.
So it was definitely was well, you know, that's another thing with all lds thing that, uh, strong
drink, um, in the word of wisdom, that was hard liquor. Like this whole new interpretation that
that's coffee and tea, that's made up. Uh, Joseph Smith Jr. He loved tea. So, okay. So much pot.
Yeah. So what would be your sin of choice? Well, so like, I'm already said, I don't believe in sin,
but, um, yeah, but like hypothetically, um, I don't know what are, what are some sins? Um,
lost, uh, lying, stealing, uh, uh, I guess, um, drinking too much alcohol, um, not having faith
is a sin, like questioning. Um, uh, what would be the name of that sin? Um,
I don't know, because you could say like you're doubting Thomas or something, right? Like it
could also be that like, I'm just being doubting Thomas. Um, um, um, let's see, what is my favorite
sin? Um, Meredith's favorite sin is, uh, coveting her neighbor's slaves and have a slave. So
Oh yeah, coveting your neighbors, but it's not slaves. It's coveting your neighbor's
wife, isn't it? Yeah, it's just, I think she was making a joke because it's property coveting
your neighbors, like, but coveting your neighbors. Yeah. I don't think that she was saying that, um,
Meredith was saying that it was, uh, like her favorite one, but it just, she just mentioned it.
Got it. Ah, geez. Yeah, I wish, wish I, um, could come up with something good. What's a good
sin that I enjoy? Um,
if you don't have, you don't have one. How about, um, vengeance? That would, that's maybe
a good idea. Awesome. Awesome. Ben just, his mind says Elliot. Uh, okay. And, um,
here's a question I'd like to ask, and I think it's, um, and it might be interesting because
you've, you know, it sounds like you've done some research. Um, what is the most plausibly
true religion that you don't believe in? So let's see. So to get a plausible religion, you need to
like as few claims as possible, right? Because like the more claims, the more improbable it becomes.
Um, so you'd have to have like a bare bones religion. I would say like kind of like I said, I'm,
I like narcissism in that it, like it avoids like the problem of evil, like knowing how
everything would turn out. Like they don't even say creation, right? It's emanation.
And there's no claims about God that it's just, it's unknowable. You just did, like that's,
that's where it ends. It's unknowable. And like did, did the monad, did it know how all this would
turn out? We don't know, right? And it's all emanated. And why do bad things happen? Well,
because we're farther away from the monad. And then you have to get closer. You have to escape
all this and get, get back. So I think that's probably the most like intellectual religion
when it was trying to overcome all these ideas. So that's what I would maybe go along with. And
it kind of, I mean, all people say this apologist stuff. I'm a Gnostic apologist. Well, it corresponds
with science, right? With the big bang that it all just kind of exists, started existing, right?
And we'll maybe know nothing about how it existed. So I would just say probably Gnosticism.
Interesting. I think you're the first person who's chosen that. A lot of people take the,
the, the easy answer. I would say it's Buddhism because it doesn't, you can have a Buddhism
without a God. Yeah, I was thinking about Buddhism. Yeah. Yeah. It is, it is, it is interesting to
think about. Well, I'm super excited for this debate because everyone seems pissed off in the
chat, in the chat. So it's going to be, it's going to be really interesting. It's obviously
getting people quite worked up. So come along to the debate. Did Jesus exist, exist historically?
But before then, we have the amazing Slavery Number Two panel, where we're going to be doing
deep dive into the apologetics and pulling it apart. Before we show the trailer for that again,
as we end out the show, is there anything else you wanted to kind of mention, Elliot,
or shout out anything that you're currently doing? Or you got a new video you're working on?
Yeah, we're kind of doing a lot of stuff. Let's see. This Sunday, we'll be talking
about a practice that's Gnostic deity. If you're familiar with it, pretty interesting,
he is the head of the rooster, got some legs that are serpent legs. So we're doing that.
Let's see, we're doing, I'm going to start a series on Mithraism, on its origins. And yeah,
it'll be neat. So yeah, check out my channel if you like. And yeah, we're going to take on a few
projects. Awesome. Well, I'm super excited to see where your channel kind of goes.
Super excited for the debate. And thanks for coming out, everyone. It's been really awesome to do a
stream this time of day. I hope it's not too late for everyone. And I'll see everyone in a couple
days for the slavery panel. And we're going to end on that trailer. Thanks for coming out, guys. Bye.
