I need to ask because I've kind of stayed on the fringes of this.
But this seems to be like a beef between yourself and no, actually,
not even between yourself, between many between scholarship,
between scholarship and one Amon Hillman.
I think. Yes. Yes.
As far as I understand,
Amon Hillman is crazy.
He runs Channel Lady, he comes across like that.
He comes across like that.
I remember the only thing I knew about Amon
is he had a channel.
I was really excited to watch an episode with yourself and
and Amon together and you both jumped in.
And before he could, you could even really talk.
He said that, I quote, I think you're full of kip
and I'm going to expose you.
And it was just meant to be a friendly conversation.
And it was I was so shocked.
And then after that, he's like smelling his shirt,
binding his nails. I was like, is this guy on drugs?
I took screenshots and I sent it to some of the people who were on the panel.
I was like, I think he was on drugs.
You left the conversation.
Yeah, you look as you're like, it's the one and only time I've ever done that.
Yeah. So I was like, whoa, so that's the only only information I had of Amon.
And then all of a sudden my dad reaches out and he's like,
have you heard of Amon Hillman?
I'm like, oh, my God.
And it's because he went on that that that that popular person's YouTube channel.
I didn't actually watch the interview.
Danny Jones. Oh, yeah.
But in the in the background, in the background,
I'm just hearing a lot of whispers that seems to be a war on the on the rising.
Could you just give us a recap? What's happening?
So I don't know if anything's happening.
I mean, Amon Hillman made made this
appearance on on the Danny Jones podcast.
They got like 350,000 views in a week, right?
And he says all sorts of crazy garbage, which is his whole thing.
His whole thing is that.
So he's a he's a classicist,
which means that that he has done his training in in Greek literature.
And I believe he specialized in medical texts.
And there's tons and tons of them, right?
Like the the the corpus of Greek literature is vast, like it's huge.
So I don't like I don't begrudge classicists for getting lost in it.
I just wish they would stay there,
which is something that a number of them don't do.
And he's one of them.
So he's got this idiotic idea
that the Septuagint, which is the Greek translation of the Hebrew Bible,
which may have been composed as early as like 250 BCE.
His idea is that the text was originally Greek,
that the Septuagint was the original text
and that the Hebrew Bible, as we have it, was based on
manuscripts that were retroverted or back translated
from Greek into Hebrew, which is patented nonsense.
And I mean, it's easy to show, right?
Like that was the whole point that one and only appearance
that I had with him on the Gnostic conformance show
like a year ago, it was supposed to be his his 100 K
sub celebration, the one that you were talking about,
the one and only show I showed I showed up on with him.
We were supposed to discuss this issue,
which came first, the Septuagint or the Hebrew text.
And yeah, so he was super rude and condescending and and, you know, said a bunch.
It was like a bra, like it was a bra up.
Like it like I'm not one to, you know, I've, you know,
I have family members and, you know, history of drug abuse and things like that.
Like I'm not pointing the finger or saying that anyone's a bad person.
But like I very much got like this guy's high vibes from it.
He might not have been.
He definitely might not have been, but he's just the way it was very sporadic,
very aggressive.
And then he was just he was pacing back and forth, chewing his nails, sniffing his shirt
multiple times within like a few minutes.
And I was just like, what's going on here?
Like anyone? Yeah.
Yeah. And he wasn't listening either, right?
Like this is the thing that that this is the thing that ticks me off.
Is he's not again, let me just let me just say he might not have been on drugs.
And so I'm just putting it out there.
We kick. I don't know.
He was just being he was being a douche, whether he was high or not.
And he was, yeah, that's that's right.
So and then he I found out that he doesn't even know
like his Greek is great as well.
Even then, like he's got these weird because he's he's immersed in these medical texts.
He's transposing, you know, the you know,
how words will take on meanings in certain contexts.
Like it this happens in any language, right?
Yeah. So I say, like, I'm flying down the road.
Sure. Yeah.
You know, I'm driving, I'm flying in the road, people.
Exactly. I think a really good example of this is
if you've ever read like a legal document, right?
It uses English words that don't mean the same thing as they do in in conversation.
Yeah. So he's immersed in these medical texts.
And then he's taking the meanings of words
that appear in these medical texts and applying those to everything.
So, for example, where the the word the Greek word for
anointed one, which is the the Hebrew word,
Mashiach is Christos, which is this is the word from which we get Christ.
It's Jesus, the Messiah, right, Jesus, the anointed one.
So the it comes from a verb that means to rub
or to apply some sort of ritual
implement on your on your body.
So like it's a it's an appropriate word to use for translating
something like Mashiach, which means anointed one.
But within these Greek medical texts,
it means to to apply some sort of drugs to the eyes
to achieve this this for healing or for enlightenment or something, right?
So he takes that meaning, transposes that into these
Hellenistic Jewish texts of like the New Testament
and then back into the the Septuagint and goes,
well, Jesus was a drug pusher.
And I'm like, no, he wasn't like it's just it's not.
So but I found out in this stream that he doesn't
like he doesn't know any other ancient like he probably knows some Latin, too.
He knows Latin, he knows Greek, he knows nothing about Hebrew,
nothing about Aramaic, nothing about any Semitic or any other
ancient Eastern language. And when it comes to making
textual comparisons between the Greek text of the Septuagint
and the Hebrew Bible texts and trying to and if you're in the process
of determining which one of these was original in the translation,
it's pretty damn important to know both languages.
And if you don't, you can't make that judgment.
I happen to know both languages and I happen to understand
why the many, many, many reasons why
we are absolutely certain that the Septuagint is a translation
of these Greek originals.
So yeah, so that was.
Is it is it kind of the case of when you're a screwdriver,
everything's a screw like you just kind of like he's immersed in the medical text
immersed in Greek stuff and he's starting to see these little like
connections here and there and he draws one of those.
Have you seen that there's a meme of like a million
like like lines between different things on the wall and the guys like,
I found it's I don't I'm explaining them mean mean poorly, but it's like
you can't point to one specific thing.
You have to take the huge amount of what I might say cherry pick resources
to kind of find the what he's kind of getting.
Is that no, I think that's that's a pretty good.
That's a pretty good analogy.
I think I think probably pretty similar to what he's doing.
So yeah, so I mean, Dan made a couple of
because because Hillman absolutely he absolutely hates me.
He absolutely hates Dan.
So Dan did Dan did a couple of of his short little video responses
to Hillman's nonsense.
And then and I had actually when I first saw this this interview,
I had I had suggest I had suggested to
the the Diablo critics group that maybe this is something we wanted to take a look
at for our new episode.
But then Dan went ahead and and and you know, he said no.
No, well, he just went ahead and made made his own.
Oh, yeah. So I'm like, oh, I'll just make mine, then we'll do something else.
So don't worry about it.
I have I have something planned so much to talk about.
So anyways, that's yeah.
I mean, it's one of those it's one of those things that, you know, you get
someone, I don't know, like he goes on Joe Rogan and says that, like,
like mushrooms come from my or something just absolutely out there.
You know, I mean, and then everyone will be like, whoa, like, I can't believe it.
Like mushrooms come from this guy's like they'll have some, you know,
some like bizarre theory, and that's what we'll get attention, especially
people use big words or or engaging in kind of areas that that they try to
they explain to their audience, but in a way that their audience
isn't equipped to kind of correctly discern, like they're not they don't
have the training to know whether or not someone's pulling the wool over their
eyes or anything.
We actually have a comment from Pat Launga.
Here we go again with Dr.
Davis acting like a shield for big academia
and keeping down the groundbreaking research of someone like Hillman.
Open up your eyes, people that give Davis.
And we also have a five dollar super chat.
Thank you for the five dollar super chat from Milwaukee, Atheist.
We picked up a book from Hillman like six months ago.
Lots of claims and not a single citation.
That is a figure.
