To prove that people on the internet will argue about literally anything,
here's a picture of a metaphysically necessary truth.
Everything that begins to exist has a cause.
And I said, begins to is slipped in there because it would refute God's
sophistry.
Yeah.
What are your thoughts on like an argument like that, like everything that
begins to exist as a cause?
Like somebody's a classic.
Yeah, it's special pleading to the highest degree, which you pointed out.
You're changing even the verbiage of the argument to make an exception for the
thing that's already an exception.
Our God is outside of space and time.
Oh, then that's the same thing as nothing.
The same thing is nothing.
It also means he can't be impactful in this world because as soon as he
interacts or interferes with this world, we can, we can see that we can
measure that difference.
You know, when God killed of his own volition in action, no soldiers needed.
When he throws stones down from heaven, he's no longer outside of space and time.
When he takes a life on purpose to help his army get a victory.
When he sends a deceiving spirit, when he confuses everyone and makes them
blind so that they can't win their battle, like all of these times that God
interacts, even sending Jesus, guess what?
God's no longer outside of space and time.
If he is there, he has to stay there.
The second he interacts, you can't do this anymore.
And so again, I think that those arguments, the fallacy is of course special
pleading because you can do the same thing with any other term.
You can do the same thing with the universe.
You know, this is the whole conversation with infinite regress and
did the universe come from nothing?
And all of these straw men that they try to put in the mouth of an atheist.
And I'm no expert, but I do know that whatever you can say about God, you
could just say about the universe and you've made it one order of complexity
less.
So if you're talking about Occam's razor, if you really want to be logical, like
then be logical, we know we can follow a timeline 13.8 billion years.
We don't know what happened before that.
If there's a before that, we don't know if universes beget universes.
If this is some kind of a cycle, we can only measure to a point.
And after that, the honest thing to say is, I don't know, if you're going to
make the argument that it had to come from something, then so does God.
Well, not God.
He's outside of that.
Why?
And there is no why, except that you want him to be the first cause because
that answers your weird, creepy little apologetic tactic.
And it simply doesn't work.
I think they get the most attention because you can dress them up like
the, you know, William Lane Craig's column is it's simple with its premises.
But when you actually hear him explain it, he's using so many philosophical
terms and really impressive language that you feel like, how do I, how do I
fight this?
How can I break this down?
But all he is saying is, my God is the one exception.
And it's like, that's not an answer that doesn't answer anything.
And I actually saw that one.
I don't have Twitter or Facebook or anything, but I saw that because Cameron
posted it on his community board on YouTube.
And I didn't react to it because I don't want to go crazy every day.
But I thought how disingenuous to not post the argument in full, to not be
correct with the verbiage, you know, to even do it in a way to like rile people
up, like, what's your point?
How is this God's love?
Yeah.
What are you doing here?
It just, it's all so disingenuous to me that, um, I don't have this burden.
As an atheist content creator, I don't owe God anything.
But if you're a Christian apologist or a content creator for God, do you not
really need to check yourself on if you're doing more for the kingdom than
less and how you're utilizing your time and what you're doing with your ad
revenue?
Like, and I know that's an unfair position for me who isn't held to the same
standard, but I think it's insane what a, and I don't know Cameron and I, I'm
not saying anything about him in particular, but as a sounding board here,
really, or a jumping off point of how do any of these apologists justify these
quips, these riling up atheists, you know, he said other things that are
downright just horrible about atheists.
And like first Peter says to give a kind account.
Is this you giving a kind account?
Is this you showing God's love?
I just, I think that they, the fact that they're not held to this higher standard,
or that they don't hold themselves to it, or that people don't expect,
Christians don't expect it is another problem within itself.
We do not see lives changed.
We do not see a piece that surpasses understanding.
My Christian commenters are the, some of the nastiest things I've ever heard.
And yes, other Christians would say they don't represent anyone, but if, if they
have the light of Christ in them, should they ever even be able to type these
things?
I, it just blows my mind at what point do you say there is a standard of what
it should look like to be a Christian, and we simply don't see it.
And I just went somewhere completely different than you were going with a
Kalam argument or a first cause argument, but it all ties together because I see
those posts all the time.
And it's like, what are you doing?
How like, I have a standard for how I conduct myself online than this.
What is going on?
Yeah, I was arguing, then this is my fault.
I shouldn't argue with people on Twitter and I don't know why I did.
But there's like one Christian was like literally calling me a dumbass and, and
something like that.
And I was like, do you, I was like, what gospel are you reading?
I was like, cause I, I like know the gospel where it says like to turn the
other cheek and he's like, what, Christian is just supposed to bend
her over and take it.
And I'm like, yes, explicitly.
Yes.
Like I read the gospels where like, one of them was like stoned and then
celebrated the fact, I think it was acts, celebrated the fact that he was like worthy
of being persecuted for Christ.
I read the Bible that says pray for those who persecute you.
If I say something foolish, I'm a fool, but Christians aren't allowed to call
someone a fool, you know, it's right there in Matthew.
Like, and I can't, and it's even funny to me how many Christians actually use
that word fool with me.
It's like, but you're actually doing the thing.
New Testament in context, Jesus himself is saying not to do, and the punishment,
by the way, the second part of that verse, and I don't want to over speak
because I can't recall right now.
I'm pretty sure it's like hell, right?
We'll be in dangers of the fires of hell.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And so it's hilarious to me how much they don't take this seriously to an extent.
And again, not all Christians, obviously there's Christians living really
wonderful lives and trying to be as Christ like as possible.
And we're hearing from probably a silent majority.
So I want to be as fair as possible.
But the fact that anyone could actually say the sinner's prayer or go to church
and read their Bible and profess a belief in Jesus Christ and then not represent
anything of what we're supposed to see from the witness of the Holy Spirit that
has come upon them, it's fascinating to me because it's it's it's proof.
Like I don't want to be the person that says if you don't act like a Christian,
you're not a Christian.
But the very fact Christians can act non-Christian is unbiblical.
Where is the new creation?
Where is the piece that surpasses it all?
Like it's at some point you have to say the promises that were made to what would
happen to you internally as a believer with the witness of the Holy Spirit.
They're simply not true.
And this is something that I've been building a lot more of a case around in
my more recent videos.
And I'm going to be making a big video as kind of a challenge.
I've been told I've I've been trying to bring all my comments and I like data.
And I'm gathering how many times since I started my channel, a Christian in all
sincerity has said, I'm praying for you.
And right now I'm somewhere around like 1300 good meaning Christians with the
witness of the Holy Spirit have promised that they're indeed praying for me,
yet alone, everyone in my life, yet alone, you know, everything else,
thousands of people.
So they're meeting all the criteria.
This is God's will.
He doesn't want me to be lost.
This is the video I'm putting out.
I'm already ruining it.
Seeing it live here on Deep Drinks.
But they're meeting all the criteria.
Two or three are gathered.
How about 2000?
Okay.
That should be good for God, right?
In terms of how we should pray praying in his will, because we don't want to pray
outside as well.
Jesus says at least three times, he wishes for none to be lost.
That's me.
He doesn't want me to be lost.
They're praying sincerely.
They're praying often without ceasing all the things they're telling me they're
doing.
And here I am.
So either every single one of them is a liar and they're not actually praying
issue or God isn't doing what he said issue.
There is no getting around it.
Have clear verses about the power of prayer ask and receive.
I've put all these verses on prayer together, making sure that you meet each of
them, because sometimes they have different requirements for what you would
expect, but it's that simple.
And here I am.
Like what, what is their answer to this?
I should be saved.
There's, there's no getting around it.
So it's that kind of thing.
Again, with the peace that Christians should have with the witness of the Holy
Spirit, where we don't have 30,000 denominations, you simply refute the Bible
itself when you look at the hard data.
I remember I went onto a discord once and I was, I, uh, it was a Christian
discord that I got invited to.
So I, I came along and I said, Hey, I went into the chat and I said, Hey, I'm
going to be in the voice room and I, I'm an atheist.
If anyone wants to ask me questions about why I don't believe in God, you're
welcome to come along.
And, um, turns out like it was only pretty much atheists in the room because
they all got invited to this Christian channel as well.
And we're just waiting for a Christian to rock up.
And then this Christian lady rocks up and then like, I just kept using the
Socratic method and asking questions and got to the point where they were like
essentially screaming at me and.
You have a heart in heart and I'm going to pray for you.
What's your name?
Uh, Dave McDonald.
And trust me when I tell you one day you will pay for that.
And that's your warning.
And that's all I'm going to say.
Thank you for the threat.
I'm sure you're going to duck out now.
I'm not threatening you.
Who is I'm just saying who is what you're doing wrong.
Who's threatening me?
You don't want to believe who's threatening me.
Who's threatening me?
I'm, I'm just saying you either go to hell or you go to heaven.
Whoa.
Oh, your God kind of sounds like a mafia boss.
That sounds kind of cruel, right?
Why are you even on here?
It's on my other YouTube channel somewhere.
But what's funny is at the end, they were saying that they'll pray for me and
I'll know that God is real because like of the experience that I'm going to have.
And I said, I said, awesome, like I was a great.
And I actually said, I'm going to put this in my calendar.
I said, how long do you need for this miracle to happen?
Because she said soon, I said, how long do you need this miracle to happen?
That'll convince me because if it does convince me, great.
Like, I, if there is a God, I want to know about it.
You know what I mean?
Like, I don't want to like, if the earth is fine, I want to know about it.
Tell me the evidence.
You know, this is like my, my take on all of these things.
Uh, anyway, I put in the, um, I put it in my calendar for a year's time.
I said, sure, I got a year, a year for this miracle for this thing to happen.
It's going to happen soon.
So a year's way more than like it needs to be.
And I went to, and then I got this like thing, message that person and tell them
if the prayer worked like a year later.
Yeah.
Oh, I'm blocked.
I'm like, I got blocked like so.
