I recently had coffee with a close Christian friend of mine, Ben. Ben and I met in
ministry college 10 years prior, and we've remained good friends ever since. We would
normally discuss what's going on in our lives, give each other advice, or discuss some deep
philosophical questions. This one day, however, the conversation got onto a religion. Ben was
still a Christian, but I had left the faith at this stage, and obviously we had different
perspectives on things. Atheists are closed-minded, Ben said. I don't care about anything that can't
be measured in a test tube. Disagreeing, I asked Ben if we could test his idea.
I asked him a series of questions. Ben, do you believe that it's possible that God created the
universe? Yes, of course, he said. Great, so do I. I believe it's possible. I'm just unconvinced of
any of the evidence so far. Ben seemed to understand that we moved on to the next question. Ben,
do you think it's possible that something else created the universe, that it wasn't God?
With hesitation, Ben said, well, yeah, I guess it's possible. I then went on to my last question.
Ben, do you think it's possible that nothing created us, that the universe just was?
No, he burst out. Something had to have created us. It makes no sense that we just came from nothing
or that we just existed. Well, I said to Ben, that's where we differ. I am not convinced of that,
but I also admit that it's a possibility. We had to have come from something Ben explained.
Maybe we came from the same place you believe God came from. In other words,
if you can say that God just was, can't we say the same thing about the universe?
We were both finding the conversation interesting and Ben took a big sip of coffee.
Where do you think we go when we die? Ben asked. I'm not sure, I said, but probably the same place
of flame goes when you blow out a candle, or maybe to the same place that we were for the
13.8 billion years before our existence. Couldn't it be possible that we just ceased to exist?
What about the Bible, Ben said? What about the miracles and the events that happened in the Bible?
Well, the Bible is a big conversation. Some things are probably historical and some things aren't.
But furthermore, I fathomed to understand a God who would part the Red Sea to save his people,
but keep the gates of Auschwitz locked. Ben was used to some of my harsh one-liners,
and brushed it off and moved on to his next question. What about spiritual experiences, he said?
Well, many people have experiences from mutually exclusive religions. If those experiences aren't
evidence of those religions, why are your experiences evidence of your religion? And
furthermore, people accept optical illusions as just something that our brain can do. Is it possible
that spiritual experiences are just emotional illusions? What do you believe, Ben asked? Do
you want to believe in God? Of course I want to believe in God. If God is true, I want to believe
as many true things and as little false things as possible. It was a heartbreaking experience to
investigate my deeply held beliefs, but it was the morality that was taught to me in church that made
me realize that it was the right thing to do. I was taught that no matter what, truth was the most
important thing, and I realized to be intellectually honest, I had to investigate the evidence with
unbiased eyes. I'll be lying if I remember how the conversation went from there, but at one stage,
Ben asked me to define atheism, as he was under the perception that it meant that I knew that there
was no God. Of course I didn't know that. My perspective of atheism is just by its definition,
lacking theism without belief. I think of atheism as the proposition of not being convinced yet
of the existence of God or gods. The same way Ben feels about a God he doesn't believe in,
is how I feel about all gods. Although the conversation probably looked ugly from an outside
perspective, Ben and I both enjoyed the conversation, both walked away learning something about
each other. Ben is still a Christian, and I'm still unconvinced of the evidence for God. However,
I think it's important to remember that a rational person should always change their
perspective for sufficient reason, and just because we disagree, doesn't mean we can't
still be friends and have interesting conversations.
