Today, my guest is Dee, the Stacey's Mum in Stacey's Mum's podcast.
She hid her non-belief of the existence of God for 30 plus years and today, we're going
to hear a little bit about her journey.
Welcome, Dee, to Stacey's Mum's podcast.
I mean, welcome, Dee, from the Stacey's Mum's podcast to Deep Drinks podcast.
Oh, I was going to say, did I take over your podcast?
I'll be totally welcome, too.
Well, oh, hello, everybody.
We have some awesome people here, Pragmatic Crystal, Tom, who's my very inappropriate
friend, Dr. Cheryl, Aaron Coulson, the Stacey's Mum's podcast is here.
It's so great to see everyone.
We know a little bit about each other, Dee, but I don't think I've ever had a full overview
of your journey and that's what we're going to do here today.
But first, before we do that, what are we drinking?
Well, I think I might be your first guest with two drinks.
I think you are.
You might be.
Yeah.
So starting out with a beautiful Savignon Blanc from, ah, look at that, look at that.
You got the exact same one.
From New Zealand.
Yep.
One says lighter.
What does that mean?
Oh, what the heck is that?
Cool and fragrant.
Oh, that looks interesting.
That's not available here.
I have never seen that here.
But this is the very first Savignon Blanc I ever tried.
And it's the one that turned me on to Savignon Blancs.
And yeah, so it's from, it's a Kiwi Savignon Blanc.
And this is something that I drink all the time, not necessarily, not necessarily this
particular brand.
I do drink it, but I drink a lot of ginger, ginger is my very favorite flavor of kombucha.
And I just drink this all the time just because it's good for me.
So I'm, I'm going, so when I pick up the peach colored cup, that's what I'm drinking.
And when I pick up my year on the wine with Jimmy and Matt glass, that's awesome.
That's my Savignon Blanc.
So well, I actually asked Amy to get kombucha and she forgot.
So after I screamed at her for about five or six minutes.
Oh yeah.
Sure.
I came out last night and I was like, do you have kombucha?
Cause I forgot to get kombucha and then she's like, I'll get kombucha.
So anyway, but she's at the store right now getting some nappies for us on Atlas and she's
like, I can get kombucha.
So bring it in.
Perfect.
So mine's in transit, but that's what we do.
One of my heroes in life is my sister in La Naomi.
She makes kombucha.
So I haven't, I haven't made it that far in life yet, but I live with my daughter and
my son-in-law and I don't think there's anywhere here in the house.
I don't think we have room to make kombucha.
So one day when I finally have my own home again, maybe I'll make kombucha.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, she's here.
She's here.
She's here.
She's in the chat.
Who?
Sorry.
Naomi King.
That's my sister-in-law who makes her home.
She's like my hero.
Yeah.
She's here.
Do you know that like I came out the other day and I was like, I told Amy two things.
I go through phases of getting really into things at one stage.
I had like 60 plus plants, chili plants, no, not 60 plus, 60 plus species of chili plants
in my backyard.
Oh yeah.
You were making hot sauce.
300 actual plants.
It was not.
We live in like, our block is like meters from the fence, like it like from our house
to our fence.
It was silly.
I didn't even walk anyway.
But now I came out the other day and I was like, I told Amy two things.
I was like, one, I'm going to start collecting ancient coins.
She's like, why?
Why?
And I was just like, because it's cool.
Why did you do that?
Like, you know how Jesus said, who's on that coin?
And then it's a hero.
Oh yeah.
Give back to Nero.
What is Nero?
Or was it?
Give back to Caesar.
Render under Caesar.
That which is Caesar.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Imagine having all those coins.
That'd be so cool.
Like, I don't know.
Yeah.
And then the other thing is I wanted to start making my own mead, like old fashioned.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I've never even tasted mead, but it's like, that's such a, just a cool drink to make berries.
That's something that is right up my brother and sister-in-law's alley too.
So yeah, you need to get over here and visit.
That's, that's, I definitely need to.
Yeah.
Well, I often like to start the conversation about deconstruction with the question, what
kind of Christian were you?
When you were a Christian, were you die hard?
Did you speak in tongues?
Were you, did you believe you had a relationship with Jesus?
Like what type of Christian were you?
That's what I was taught.
So I was taught to say when people would say, so are you religious?
We were taught to say, no, I'm not religious.
Even Satan is religious.
I have a relationship with Jesus.
That's what we were taught to say.
Like saying that we were religious was an insult.
No, we weren't, we weren't religious because even Satan was religious.
So the word religion was something that we didn't say.
We were saying we didn't have like, we used to say, I used to say Christianity wasn't
a religion.
It's a relationship.
That's exactly right.
That's exactly right.
It's a relationship.
Yeah.
So I was taught to say, and we said it, and then, well, what denomination are you?
And we were very proud to say, well, we're non-denominational, but really we were Pentecostal.
You got the point.
We were close.
We were, our non-denomination was as Pentecostal as you can get.
So holy rollers, rolling in the aisles, crazy hands in the air, speaking in tongues, the
church services that went for hours and hours and hours.
Like the churches that were scheduled, like we're in at nine and we're out by 10, 15,
our pastors made fun of those kind of churches because you cannot control the Holy Spirit.
You don't control anything.
You let the spirit lead and there was just no such thing as a schedule.
So the longer the better, as far as people were concerned, and as long as the spirit
wanted the service to go on, that's how long the service went on.
It was crazy and I hated it.
I hated how long the services were.
I hated how long the services were.
I know.
The praise and worship was just like pure and utter torture for me.
Oh, my God.
It was brutal.
Just brutal.
Absolutely brutal.
I would try to get there late for praise and worship.
And if I got there and they were still singing the clapping songs, I was like, oh, my God.
Because if I got there and they were singing the slow songs, that was great because then
I knew we were getting close to at least sitting down.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, my God.
The standing was brutal.
Anyway.
Yeah, the standing was just awful.
And we would get chastised for sitting down at a lot of the services.
I remember one church we went to, we actually got yelled at for sitting down.
One guy said, there will be no lawn chairs in heaven.
You will not sit down in heaven.
It's like, oh, my God, you make it sound so amazing.
Yeah.
Woo.
Yeah.
It was like, can I bring one?
Like, I don't know.
We had this, we had this group in church, I've told this story a bunch of times, but I call
them the Bethelers.
Everything was Bethel.
Every other church fell short.
They weren't good enough, et cetera, et cetera.
And I remember one of them talking, one of the youth talking about like, oh, we went
to a Bethel conference that came to Brisbane and they just started the night with three
hours of worship.
And I'm like, oh, yeah, Christian, I'm like, kill me now.
I can worship in my car while myself like, I'll have long worship sessions.
Sure.
I'll pray and worship and lie down and stuff.
But like in the congregate, like I don't, I don't, I didn't understand it.
Yeah, I didn't understand it at all.
No, my daughter loved it, as you've probably heard her say in many of her interviews.
That was her favorite part.
I just hated it.
I hated it.
I never liked it.
Oh, that's not good.
So, no.
So, so, okay, two things.
First is the time that Stacey came on Deep Drinks podcast.
We're having technical difficulties because of the internet.
And today we're also having technical difficulties from my end.
But what happened was they told, they also told me that every street in the neighborhood
besides theirs had lost power, so they might just disappear at a random time.
So, I hope that's not what's happened.
Oh, no, it looks like...
Okay.
We all, we all lost the internet here.
I told you, we should have said at the beginning, we didn't have power outages here in the neighborhood.
So, that was scary.
We're good?
Yeah, nobody's online.
Okay, good.
Okay, get behind me, Satan, to Tom.
So, we have a super chat.
I'd normally leave these for the end, but this isn't a question.
This is just a statement.
Thank you for a $20 super chat from Patrick.
Oh, okay.
Do you know who that is?
You're my favorite people.
Thank you so much.
Patrick is my brother from another mother.
I get these amazing long audio messages from Patrick.
And I just saved them all.
Oh, yes, he's amazing.
Time to have a...
Because he's so encouraging and so nice and talks a lot about...
I want to say hi to Kip.
He says he's leaving.
He'll come back much later.
Hey, Kip.
Oh, hey, Kip.
Glad you're here and sorry you got to leave, but hi.
Okay, so...
So, back to before Satan tried to pull down the stream.
Oh, God.
Yeah, I was going to say, Satan would love us if he was real.
So, yeah, well, we're out.
So, we're talking about like you hated the...
I hated it all.
When I was a kid, my mom would take us to tent revival meetings
that would just go late into the night.
And I was fascinated as a little kid to see all the crazy stuff going on
because I saw crazy stuff, people falling out in the spirit,
laying all over the place and the crazy preachers.
I remember so many...
I don't want to name any just in case they're still alive.
I don't want to get in trouble.
But anyway, I just saw a lot of crazy stuff.
But the other thing that I witnessed as a child was there was times
when my mom was a crazy Christian and we're going to church like Mad.
And then I saw her what we would call backslidden and not going to church.
And it was just so back and forth and on and off.
And it was just...
I don't know.
Nothing was ever consistent.
So it was hard for me to truly sink my teeth in and just see consistency.
So I had a lot of inconsistency in my childhood.
I didn't have a great childhood.
I really didn't.
I don't know how deep we're going to go here.
But I had a lot of really awful things happen in my childhood
at the hands of the adults that were in charge of me.
A lot of really awful things.
I think I don't think this is the place to really go into that.
But the worst things you can imagine happen to me.
Abandonment, abuse, a lot of really not good things happened.
So I witnessed my mom.
At one point we lived in a big townhouse with a lot of the Jesus people.
And so I was put through...
What's it called?
What's it called when they cast demons out of you?
I've lost the word.
So far, but I know what you mean.
Oh, like the priest did it to the woman, the exorcism, an exorcism.
I was put through an exorcism as a nine-year-old and that was traumatic.
All I remember is just laying on the floor and having all these adults around me
and just praying in tongues and screaming and yelling and just...
Yeah, it was just...
It was traumatic.
Whoa, okay.
Whoa, can we...
So when you say you went through an exorcism,
the types of exorcisms that kind of we do in my church
if the spirit called us to pray for someone and then it just kind of happened,
was this like an organized thing?
This just happened and it was in the townhouse we lived in
and I don't even know what brought it on.
I have no idea, but...
Did you have any physical manifestations like were you shaking or anything like that?
I just remember just laying there and adults just saying,
okay, what do you see in your head now?
What pictures are you seeing?
What do you see anything?
And I don't even remember too much.
Just laying there and it went on for quite some time and just...
I was just scared and I hadn't...
This was when my mom had...
I had just come...
She had came and this is getting deep.
A dickling.
Yeah.
Like a big sip.
Yeah, actually I'm going to.
I have two siblings, a brother and a sister and we had been not with her for a year or more
and she had come and taken us.
My sister and I were on our way to school.
We were walking to school and she'd come and literally snatched us off the street with a man I didn't know
and threw us into the car and then got us to direct her to where we were living at the time
and we went and got my little brother from the apartment we were staying in and snatched him
and then she zipped us off to the next province over
and that's when we ended up in this townhouse with all these Jesus people
and that's where the exorcism was performed on me.
So who kidnapped you?
My mother and her then boyfriend who I'd never met before.
You never met the boyfriend?
No, I'd never met the boyfriend before.
She was with a man that I didn't know and that was the beginning of all just a few more crazy years.
She didn't stay with him for very long.
She went on to another boyfriend and it was a fun childhood.
I had some, I've got a lot of stories but anyway.
Just going through like a traumatic exorcism like that or an exorcism at that age is wild.
I had a friend, she was the children's pastor at the old church I went to
and I remember she posted on Facebook about her daughter age five or six had a dream
and the dream was Satan and God were running circles around her in the dream
and they were saying pick me, pick me, pick me, pick me.
Oh my God.
And she woke up and she asked her mom what is this and she was like oh
and her mom was like oh well that's God calling you to a life of following him.
But when I read that I was like that's pretty traumatic.
Like imagine as a kid you're trying to work out what the world's all about.
You're getting told that for yourself you have demons in you that need to come out
that are controlling you, that there's the powers of Satan and the powers of God
and Satan is very good at tricking people and so you've got to be careful.
It's terrifying.
It gives me goosebumps.
It's like I hate it.
This was the same year I believe Jesus Christ Superstar came out.
I'm old.
I was born next month so this is 1973 and then I think the next year Jesus Christ
Superstar came out if I'm not mistaken because I was born in 64 so I was 1973
this happened.
I was nine and then yeah so yeah and then it was like a year or two later my mom
wasn't an on fire Christian and she was with someone else and we didn't go to
church so we had a couple years of no church and God not being mentioned at all.
She was living a different lifestyle and then a couple years after that was back
actually she started sending us to church on the Sunday school bus and that was a
Pentecostal church and we were getting just sent off to Sunday school because she
was going out on Saturday night staying up late and just wanted us out of the
house on Sunday mornings and so like not a lot of consistency is what I'm saying
you know so I just felt I don't know it just never felt consistent so there
wasn't like there was ever a real it just never felt really really real but I
always always always had the indoctrination of hell so the only thing that ever
kept me between the guardrails was a fear of hell so throughout my entire
childhood and teenagehood I was a pretty good kid I was pretty good I didn't
party I didn't drink I didn't do drugs I ended up quite young having a boyfriend
and I did get pregnant at 17 and I did marry him and so that was my biggest
sin was premarital sex and then I married him and we had a stillborn child and we
stayed married and then I had my two children that I have now and hang on the
camera is just that's not good hopefully she comes back
oh you're back okay we're having a real issue here it's every time it's
same with this is happening Stacey as well yeah and the sound oh sorry Stacey's
helping thanks days um so I gotta take a shot every time we lose lose you D that's
the rules now thank you you'll never lose me David I'm yours so consistently the
only thing that was ever consistent for me in my brain was the fear of hell
that's it that's it I don't know why I can't explain it so all I knew was I
believed in hell and I believe that if I wasn't perfect I'd go to hell that's it
mm-hmm so I just tried everything to just do my best to be perfect because if I
died when I went to sleep or I went got into a car my biggest fear was when I
would go have surgery if something happened during surgery that I'd go to
hell it was I had this fear of hell and my big my the biggest thing was I would
bargain with this God that I didn't believe in and be like I'm so sorry I
don't believe in you but I can't help it I'm so sorry I don't even know why I'm
talking to you I don't believe in you but oh my god I'm like but I'm just so
scared it was so weird mm-hmm it was just so weird and I answered so many altar
calls trying to rededicate my life and just like I'm really trying like you know
I'm trying if you're there you know I'm trying like you you've got to help me
there's there's got to be a way for you to prove to me that you're there and I
don't think there's anything wrong with me asking you if you're actually there
and you do truly love me there's got to be a way for you to prove because you are
seeing how this is eating me alive I'm trying to do everything I'm trying to be
the perfect wife the perfect mother the person and every so often I would just
have like a breakdown and fall apart and I had a couple of breakdowns in my life
and people would be like what the fuck is wrong with her like she's not behaving
like herself they had no idea I had this inner battle going on and it was like I
just want to be perfect so when I die I don't go to hell that was my biggest thing
I don't want to go to hell and I was like publicly I was like this stringent Christian
and it was so weird because I had a couple of friends over the years one in
particular I'm thinking of right now and it was within the last decade and she
used to take me out for lunch and she would sit across the table from me and
she was this sweet lady who her her husband was a deacon in their church
and they were some denomination that we wouldn't have thought was even saved
they were really progressive I don't know like Lutheran or something but she
would sit across the table for me and she'd just say I just want you to know
that your faith has just helped me grow to be a better Christian you are such an
inspiration to me I just want you to know that you have made me a better
Christian and I would sit there smiling at her thinking oh my god I am such a
phony I am such a fake oh my god I don't even believe in how the fuck have I
helped this woman become a better Christian I am such a fake I'm going to go
to hell I'm going to go to hell because I'm such a fake I was just dying inside
because I hadn't believed since my daughter was five because I had here's how
here's when I stopped believing for real we lived here in the town that we live
now I went to an evangelists week-long meetings and this one night he said
come back tomorrow night expecting your miracle medical miracles are going to
happen and if you believe it's going to happen so I believed my eyesight was
going to be healed because I I've worn glasses since I was nine years old
and yeah right and and I knew that I knew that God was going to heal me because
I I just believed I just knew okay if that's all it takes I just have to believe
God okay so we drove from the town we live in here 40 minutes south to where the
meetings were taking place and I just knew oh okay if we're going to this
healing thing I'm going to come home and I'm not going to need glasses anymore
and I just believed I just knew this is it and because that's when I was a real
believer and I went to the meetings that night and I went out for prayer and
nothing happened that was the night I stopped believing and we were driving
home my I didn't drive at the time I didn't I didn't have my license but we were
my mom was driving home and I just remember sitting in the backseat with
my kids and I was devastated I was just I was crying I had tears just flowing
down my face and I was like this is all crap none of this is real because I had so
much faith I was so excited the whole day I just knew that I was going to be able
to see without glasses I'd be able to go swimming in the lake and not have to wear
glasses because I don't swim or anything because once I take these glasses off
David I can't see I don't go swimming there's a lot of things I don't do
because I can't even get contact lenses my astigmatism is so bad contact lenses
don't even fit for me I can't get laser surgery because I have such dry eye so I
have to wear glasses all the time and my lenses cost $500 a piece so it is so
expensive for me to get glasses so that's when I knew and here I was
Stacy was five so I was only 25 years old and I knew no one that I could talk to
I was just like because we were taught if if you're not healed from something it's
because you didn't have enough faith and I knew that wasn't true because I knew I
had enough faith I had believed I believed no one could tell me it was a
faith issue no one could tell me that always bothered me too because Jesus says
that faith is size of a mustard seed that's exactly what I said yeah that's
right that's right it's I remember when I was a new Christian very new Christian
a friend of mine his mum was suffering from cancer asked me to pray terminal
cancer asked me to pray for her I did I was just like that's a wrap like she's
good now like I actually was like that naive to believe that we prayed God said
if we ask for bread he's not gonna give us a stone that's right much more than
you know how Heavenly Father cares for us yeah and then if you know a few months
later or a few weeks later I hadn't heard from him for a while call him up
just hang out with my family at the moment because my mum died yeah I was
actually shocked standing in the McDonald's car park I was shocked we'll
hang there after church or something and I was like what and I'm so glad I didn't
suggest this but part of me was like should we pray over her body like what
can we like raise her from the dead because like I was so confused yes why we
prayed for something the Bible clearly says that if you pray for healings and
stuff it will happen it was very confusing it was it was very confusing
and when I asked pastors and stuff about what didn't happen or why anything
didn't happen they would say you know what we can ask him when we get there
exactly like fucking answer like that forever okay so I have so many people
that say to me but you are like the most strongest Christian I know how can you
say you weren't a believer Stacy and I interviewed Sydney Davis junior junior
junior recently and she made me realize why she made me realize why are you losing
oh hey gonna take a shot every time we lose Stacy I've got a drink
I mean I'm not Stacy oh my gosh D every time we lose D I've got a drink
well I'm bad enough at misspeaking but when I drink it's even worse
I'm just trying to get you drunk
well you know what I realize this latter version is 25% 25% less alcohol you're
drinking water you're just drinking okay so having issues around here because
we've had power outages and stuff so I apologize everyone but it's okay see
that's what I do I apologize I'm Canadian too so I'm sorry I'm sorry sorry okay
okay so what was I saying oh yeah Sydney Davis junior junior she said that
when she was deconstructing that's when she came on so powerful like posting
more scriptures on Facebook and she came on with her like so I realized like
that's how I was oh wow and I was like that like I was like I was like that's
horrible but I think I was trying to convince myself but behind closed doors
I was saying to Stacy I was tiptoeing to Stacy so when you pray do you really
believe your prayers are heard and they're going to be answered trying to
find a crack in the armor and she said oh yeah yeah I do okay and I tiptoe back
and I did that more than once and I remember the last couple of years in my
last marriage to my my good husband not the husband I've done a show on who's
dead and was a monster but my good husband we're not married now and it's not
because he wasn't good but I said to him we're still friends he's a sweetheart I
said to him a few times I don't I don't really believe in God and then he would
be like you can't say that you can't say that we're Christian I'd say okay and I
would retreat back into my shell I did try with people that I trusted but I
didn't have anyone that I could really go to and say I don't believe in God I
really had no one and I remember there I only met one man who said he was an
atheist and he was actually the landlord of the last house I rented in the last
house I lived in with my last husband and he sat on the couch and very
confidently said I'm an atheist and I looked at him and went but he just looks
normal and he's a really nice man he rented us a house that he could have got
oh my god $4,000 a month for and because he liked me so much I put an ad on
Craigslist that we needed a house and it was we were in extenuating circumstances
he gave it to us for like $800 a month just because and it was fully furnished
fully furnished and we were in such a bad way at that time yeah and he said
pictures of the house because I have a house you can rent and he sent this
pictures of the executive home and I went I I'm sorry we're not going to be
able to afford this and he goes oh no no I'm sure we could work something out and
I went oh my god no no no and I just went I don't know this guy he's never going
to know he's never going to meet me and I typed out exactly what was going on in
our life and he got halfway through my email and he was crying he said and he
went to his wife he said you have to see this you have to read this and he's like
no you have to come over here it was on Vancouver Island he's like you have to
come over here and meet us we want to rent you our home and he gave us this
executive home for $850 an atheist did this for us the kindest thing anyone had
ever done for us now if I could have told him I would have but I couldn't I just
couldn't he was always with my husband we were always together went you know but
I just looked at him wow he's so nice and he's so normal I wish I could open up
but my husband was always there that's the only atheist I'd ever met and he was
so nice it's it's amazing how those little moments like make a such a huge
difference too yeah like I had an experience where we had a staff party
when I worked at Woolworth's at this place called the Villa which is this dirty
old RSL style club in Australia I don't know if you know any of those words it's
kind of like a bar slash club and a bunch of the guys afterwards went out to
like other clubs and I followed along I was like yeah I'll be I'm part of a group
anyway that word apparently got got around that I went clubbing and I was
like hanging out at home and I live with stoners and they were all smoking weed
and and and I felt like you know I was feeling really miserable and bad that I
had a couple of drinks when I was out so I drove to church was just off the road
and I went there during the lunch break and I walk in the door and one of my
friends there actually it was Colin the first person I ever interviewed on this
podcast okay I was a big night the other night I was like what he's like I heard
you went out clubbing and I was like and I was like couldn't even remember what
I was like what I didn't even like put together that I want what's coming I was
just like hanging out with and I was like oh I was like yeah but it's not what you
think he's like I'm sure it is and then the associate passes next to him and he's
like looking at me like you went clubbing then the associate passes wife comes in
and said how's your big night the other night and like everyone was so judgmental
and I sat there eating my sushi and I was like this sucks eating lunch with the
the staff and then I come back home I thought so I was coming to church to
feel lifted up and to feel encouraged and like look oh yeah that doesn't happen
and I came back to my my stoner friends I'm sitting on the couch as they're
passing a bong around the room and they're all like don't listen to them Dave
you're awesome man like don't worry about it like like you're great like you do
so many good things I'm like yeah yeah and it's just like and you know I once
age I actually thought of that as like the tool of the devil the atheists or the
the stoners were the ones who were encouraging and my church friends you
know there's no way to to falsify any of this stuff so it's just this is one of
those things yeah yeah yeah so can I can we back up just a little bit when you
whatever you want your show you're the guest when you were a Christian
like a believing Christian I'll say were you one of the people rolling up up and
down the aisles did you speak in tongues did you I spoke in tongues but what I
did I started as a very small child and I mimicked my mom so I don't remember
anyone laying hands on me and praying for me to get the gift of it I just
remember I started mimicking my mom and I just learned recently that that's
common that most people just sound like their parents when they're brought up
in it so yeah so I don't remember the first experience I don't remember any
of that so I just mimicked my mom and yeah so I did that no I did not roll in
the aisles no I did not do any of the crazy things I always was very
embarrassed I was always scared to bring people to church when I went to
churches that did those crazy things I was super nervous that weird things were
going to happen yeah I was did you ever like would you say you like did you
ever feel the presence of God did you ever have a relationship with God I'm
trying to kind of work out if you were kind of coming along for the ride and
trying to try to fit in but never kind of did yeah I really tried I really
tried I tried to do all the right things hoping that it eventually I would
feel it I just felt like if I did all the right things eventually if God was
there he would reward me with the feelings if that makes sense but do they
do they and I never came like you never really know I never really felt like it
was real I really tried I I really tried I tried to instead of conforming to the
world I tried to conform to the church like you know how they say don't act like
the world I really tried to act like the church done it here we go guys
it a possible this is actually really good not when you drink it as fast as I'm
drinking it I'm gonna get a hammer not on that water wine you're not oh it's still
five seven drinks and I reckon I'll finish the bottle oh maybe not I will see
I'll try it depends how many times you disconnect you're not even you don't
even have power problems you're just pressing the the exit button and then
I'm not doing anything I'm just sitting here Stacey's in the background she's
just hacking you at the computer and yeah yeah she's so that's interesting so I
think if I remember correctly Stacey was the type of Christian who was feeling it
feeling it and was very much he was the one I would sit back and be like
Irma Gerd I want to do this I wanted I want yeah and I remember my son always
saying to me I'm really sorry I'm not like Stacey and if I said it once I said
it a hundred times I said to him that's nobody like Stacey Stacey's the weird
one I'm more like you I said don't apologize for not being like Stacey I
don't even understand Stacey and I said to him so many times you're like me and
I remember Stacey's telling me when I when I finally came out to her her
saying to me I could never understand why you would say Lance I'm more like you
than you realize and now that we've had all of our talks she's like that makes
more sense now why you would always say Lance I'm more like you because I was
and we have had so many talks now and she's that's why you would do this and
that's why you would say that I'm like yeah because I just I just lived so long
in what Durante calls the prayer closet I've just called it the closet oh my god
when she finally came out and told me I don't believe in God I'm like oh my god
thank God what I mean how many parents how many kids tell their Christian
parents yeah I don't believe in God anymore and their parents are like
overjoyed that was me well that's yeah that's that's such a pinnacle moment
in both your stories I guess yeah have a super chat another thank you from Stacey
it's actually from Harrison thank you Harrison she's not lying
so I've heard this from Stacey's perspective but can you lead us through
what happened from your perspective so Stacey's on fire Christian York at this
stage closeted what for what 30 plus years like going to church still and
and and no I wasn't going to church I'm going to church for years okay I would
go every once in a while I my husband and I had owned a business actually we
owned a couple of businesses that we had to work on Sundays which was so yeah
occasionally I would come to church if I could I'd show I'm kind of slinking and
and then sit there and I'd keep my head down I put my head down in my lap and
kind of look all holy and spiritual like oh I'm totally getting into this and
Stacey'd be up there like you know and occasionally I'd stand there and put my
hands up and try to look all like I'm not bored out of my mind and anyway
but okay so I moved here to where we live now a few months before Stacey and
Brian did okay and I loved it because there was nobody here my mom was living
here but my mom again was not going to church and she used whatever reason to
not go my mom my mom is on again off again all the time and she used the
excuse well church is just a warehouse for Christians they're not really
following the Lord the way they should and it's just meh meh meh meh and every
time my mom would go to a church she would turn everybody off because she's
got this SOS pad personality it's very abrasive so she just turned everybody
off anyway so she just stopped going to church all together if my mom can't
lead the church she doesn't want to go she's just that kind of a personality so
she wasn't going to church here so I moved here her husband was dying of cancer
and I came and help because my mom has had physical issues he was dying of
cancer so I came to kind of help look after her kind of help look after him
and when I wasn't needed there I was kind of like living my own life here it was
awesome and then Stacy and Brian bought a house here and I was not happy that
they were moving here because I finally was coming into my own I was separated
filed for divorce and I was I had freedom here and I had my own life and then
Stacy says can you go look at some houses for us we're gonna move there and
I was like yay cool yay that's so funny because that's not what I would have
imagined knowing what your relationship is like oh so close like we're close but
I didn't want and I want you to can you start looking at churches for us can you
go yay nope they all suck and it was during COVID oh right she was sending me
to like underground churches that were sneakily meeting oh Stacy that's
naughty that is naughty it was kind of now it makes for fun stories but it was
oh my god could you know the churches that were meeting they were anti-vax
they were like you don't have to wear a mask if you come here because COVID is a
conspiracy and yeah okay so anyway Stacy didn't believe in that though like I
mean she her husband has a brain I'm not I'm not saying that we should bring back
public fogging but maybe if we started anti-vaxxers maybe it would send a message
to the rest of the conspiracy theorist people the very first guy I dated when
my divorce was final he was not great but he did say something funny we were
driving by a park one day and they were having a public protest he's like I just
want to gas them all and then vaccinate them all and then when they wake up say
you're all vaccinated I was like okay that's great yeah I have a fantasy of
running around with like a little needle with vaccines and just jabbing back
back to back to back to yeah anyways so I wasn't thrilled that they were moving
here because I was really enjoying my newfound freedom of just I had a I had
coffee shops I went to I was like people were just I was just being myself with
no strings attached I was just being me and then Stacy and Brian were moving
here and she wanted me to check out churches and I was like oh crap
so there's that so I went to a few churches and I literally I sat I actually
made her go to churches she did I'm laughing so hard and we can laugh now
but at the time there was one church I sat in the back row David I wept I wept
not for the right reasons I imagine for the right reasons was touching your heart
yeah I wept I sat there and cried and the pastor and his wife came over like oh my
goodness like they thought I was crying because I was but I sat there and cried
because I was like oh my god what am I gonna do I hate my life I'm gonna have
to start going to church I won't have an excuse I don't own businesses I can't
what the fuck am I gonna do right anyway so then Stacy got here and she
started deconstructing unbeknownst to me and lost interest in finding a church
and isn't that interesting though because it seems to have happened when she
couldn't attend church with the worship and all that right yeah yeah I wonder
how many people deconstruct those very same reasons I think a lot but so what
happened was my divorce was going through and I started I started dating
and did you lose me again I think it's about to go oh boy okay I'll click back
on if you lose me okay oh yep there we go well thanks everyone thank you
pragmatic crystal for shouting out the patron your support from everyone keeps
this show running and super chats I really appreciate it and oh sorry I'm
gonna drink my these back you're gonna change the show to D drinks D drinks
that's it well we both doing shots now like big sips every time yeah that's
okay so I started dating and I don't think at that point Stacy can correct me
if I'm wrong but I don't think Stacy when I started dating Walter no she hadn't
deconstructed yet no she hadn't she hadn't she hadn't because because because
that's when this is funny this is a good story she was taking her boys to a
church after-school church she was homeschooling because she didn't want
them going to school she was homeschooling and she was taking them to
an after-school thing and we're going to pick them up after and while we're
driving she's talking about how there's so many Christians are hypocrites and I
just I just can't stand so many Christians are just hypocrites and she's
going on and on and on and I'm thinking oh my god she knows I slept with
Walter first time I slept with anybody since I wasn't married yeah and I really
liked Walter and I was like oh my god she's talking about me I started feeling
like oh my god so she's driving down the road and we're going to get the boys
and she's going on and on and on about hypocrites and how hypocrites I mean
Christians and how hypocritical they are so I go this is what I did okay I went
she's driving there and I'm in the past and I went Stacey I'm having sex and she
goes what I really drove off the road David it was hilarious so that she has
to roll down the window and stick her head out the window to breathe it was
I wish I could live that moment over and over and over and we need to make a movie
or something and good so then she pulls into the parking lot of the church to
pick up the kids it was amazing I love this moment so much and she's like she
has the window rolled down and she's breathing she's taking a deep breath and
I'm just like she's like half a ventilating almost yes I go are you disappointed
in me and she's like she looks at me and then she goes back out the window and
they go are you disappointed in me and she looks at me again and she's like oh my god
and then she and I go Stacey are you disappointed in me and she's like she
looks at me get I guess she's picturing me having sex or something I don't know
yeah yeah yeah and then she's like okay this is so weird because just the other
day Brian says to me I really hope your mom doesn't think she has to get married
to have sex I hope she just dates and has sex and she goes oh no my mom would
never do that that's so good that's such a funny story
it was so good anyways so she goes in to get the boys she brings them back out
we have to drive in silence because the boys are now in the back seat and
every so often she's driving and she's just looking at me and I'm just like
and we can't say anything so then she drops me off back at my car or something
and I go home apparently she goes home it's only like three thirty or four in
the afternoon she walks in the house Brian's doing renovations on the kitchen
she just walks in the house goes to the counter or the kitchen
cabinet gets a wine glass out goes to the fridge pulls out the wine pours
herself some wine slams it down slams back the wine and Brian's just working
on the kitchen and she slams back the wine and he goes so what's going on
and she's like my mom's having sex and you know what he says
well good for mommy that's so good that's so good
oh my god I love that story so much Joe it reminds me when I grew up in church
culture and when someone when you when someone was like gay or whatever
you're like you gay like it was like it was like you whisper it like like how
like how older folks go I heard they're going to therapy like therapy is so like
scary and this generation is like oh I went to therapist but I remember
talking to a friend who had never been involved in church before and they were
telling me like we're talking about sex or something and they said like oh I
like this I said oh I said so wait so would you consider yourself like
bisexual or like pansexual and he said what's pansexual and I said I think it's
like where you're not necessarily attracted to both sexes but you're this
could be wrong but but you're attracted to like I guess the person despite their
gender or sex and he said yeah that's it I went okay cool and then we just kind of
continue on the conversation and it was like it was so weird it was like him
just describing his favorite flavor of ice cream it was just like oh yeah I like
I like chocolate and I like vanilla and that was it I was so used to it being like
a dun dun dun like yeah you're you're a gay like you're you're in your lesbian
like it was it was so refreshing actually it was just like such a little deal
it's so cool like he hadn't even considered it like he hadn't even
said oh yeah must be like it was and I was like damn this is what not growing up
in purity culture looks like yeah I have to ask you though yeah because you I
guess you had post marital sex and premarital sex which is better premarital
sex or post marital sex sex is just great because I I always say to I always
say to Amy that there was because we didn't have sex before we were married
sorry we didn't have penis and vagina sex before marriage oh yeah okay I'm glad
you clarified that yeah because we did lots of other stuff I watched your whole
two shows you did the whole sex panel you need to have older women on the next
one yeah yeah good idea yeah and the but the thing is I didn't state like it was
Stacy said David this is when Brian plugs his ear talking about sex in front of
Brian all the time he's like so that's so good so I lost my chance of thought
Amy oh yeah we did a lot yeah but I always found that like the stuff that we
weren't supposed to be doing like right because we weren't supposed to be kind
of hooking up a little bit like making out and other stuff shaking each other's
hands and whatever else you do that was like almost a little bit more interesting
because you're kind of like you're supposed to be doing it and I was like kind of bummed
that we I can't I'm glad I'm glad we waited and everything like it was it's cute
it's part of our story but at the same time like that that was really fun we
should have like enjoyed that more as well yeah I'm so glad that that we actually
match as well like imagine if you did wait till you're married and then you just
both you're like clashing teeth and you just both yeah feeling it and okay so in
last marriage with the really nice man we waited till we were married big mistake
we were not compatible okay and we were like living it was like living with
my best friend we might as well just been roommates we were married 18 years and
our sex life was pretty much non-existent so wow we got along so well we still do
we still love each other every text message your phone call we have still
ends with love you love you too always love you but we would have been better
off is just best friends was it all romantic stuff or was it just the sexual
chemistry like could you guys go on an amazing date and then when you guys there
was no hand-holding no nothing we're just besties yeah yeah yeah interesting so
so how do you go from how does Stacy and you go from drinking like Stacy slamming
wine up here we go another big drink oh what is everyone else drinking alright
D is back okay drinking what what you said how did you and Stacy go from
drinking how did um Stacey and you and yourself go from like how does Stacy go
from oh my god my mom's having sex shock to eventually Stacy confessing to you
that she's no longer a okay this and then okay so when I first started dating I
said to her I was kind of feeling around and I said to her you know I'm on the
dating sites and there really isn't any Christian guys on the dating site I
didn't want to date Christians and what's interesting is even when she started
dating when she was a teenager I said don't date Christians Christians are
weird do not date Christians do not date guys in church and she was like yeah I
agree so even back then she should include in I wasn't a Christian she didn't
but anyway so she was actually deconstructing even back then and because
she said to me well don't date Christians then right so she was even
kind of tiptoeing around the subject of deconstructing she just wasn't coming
right out and saying something now she did say to me I'm kind of questioning my
beliefs right now but you know I do this every couple of years and it's okay
I'll come back and she's right she did do this every couple of years but this time
she tugged that thread and just kept tugging and that's what happened and
she did every couple of years she would start to question whether she believed
any of it but what she would normally do is immerse herself in sermons she would
just find a bunch of sermons to listen to online and just saturate herself with
sermons this time she didn't do that so that's what happened but that's a very
human response I think I think even 80s will do it I remember Tom watched one of
my discussions with a Christian and I'm very on deep drinks I try to be very open
with the conversation I try not to like push back to heart and the other
conversation he would message me like oh it was so infuriating I gotta go watch
Hitchens or Dawkins like slam some Christians for a little while because that
was so annoying to listen to and I think that's a very normal yeah yeah yeah so
so so then when she finally told you that she no longer believed what was your
response literally finally oh my god I haven't believed in X amount of years it's
been so hard for me yay and she just sat there what yeah that's what I said I
haven't believed in so long I've had nobody to talk to okay yay I'm happy and
it was in a coffee shop a place here is in a coffee shop I always imagined it
was your house no no because I was I think I was how sitting at the time yeah I
was how sitting yeah I was how sitting so she called me up and said can we meet
for coffee tomorrow and we met at a coffee shop here and we did and she started
kind of rambling and just tripping over her words and I said well you just get
to the point like what is going on and she said okay I don't think I believe in
God anymore and I went oh that's awesome yeah and I was just like the floodgates
finally after all this time I had someone close to me well like the closest person
in my entire life that she's the last person I would have thought the last person
I would have thought would ever ever say those words I don't believe in God like
the literally the last person on the face of the earth that I ever thought would
have said that like oh my goodness I was so overjoyed I will never say that
a recording of that conversation because what do you guys talk about after that
but do you talk about like are the holes in the Bible or Bart Ehrman says this or
like do you remember it okay I don't know maybe it's time for Stacey to come down
Stacey to come down bring a chair because she was going to come in near the near
the end she could because my memory literally my memories like Swiss cheese
oh it was amazing though I just remember being so happy David just imagine all those
years of me being like oh my god and then I could just tell her everything like
holy shit now I can be myself and I can swear
there we go
I can swear
oh yeah this chair is there
okay for this day so you've got to do a few shots
yep you got to do some shots
you got to do some shots because it's cut out so much
yeah
yay
okay and here is my other half
oh my gosh
oh and she said she has no sense of things to talk about
hi
oh I'm trying to think
oh it's just a blur for me
what kinds of things what did we talk about
okay after I said that oh my god
we talked about
hi
I've been watching like
I know
everyone's seen me like so much but
it was just it was so
liberating because I like I said in the chat I thought I was going to shock you
but you shocked me
yeah
and
we just
how I started it was I just wanted to
tell her about
everything that I had learned because I wanted
I had been learning so much for a couple of months
and I wanted to just give you like all the facts that I had come across
and for me it was factual
yeah
what were those facts you remember what those were
yeah it was it was like the Noah's Ark myth
oh I forgot about like
yeah that's a big one
that was definitely a big one for me it was that
and
we just we just kept talking and she's like well how do you feel about this now
how do you feel like all these really big topic issues and
and we got to like the heart of a lot of
really controversial things like
lgbtq like that is one thing
oh yeah because I had been in the closet about
being okay with all of that
yeah she and she oh yeah and I
I said you were a closet atheist and a closet ally
yeah
many people who are closet allies that's amazing
yeah I wouldn't even say she was
no I wasn't in the closet about that I was really open about it but
I had to be so
she was like a covert
yeah yeah and
so that I said to her I was like well I've always
because of the church I felt like I had to almost almost like
suppress that to be a good Christian I had to suppress
yeah yeah and I think
it was just that cognitive dissonance yes
and so we we talked about that
and I was like honestly I don't think there's anything wrong with it
but I was finally free to say all those things
and we finally like oh my gosh yeah doesn't it feel good
oh this feels so good and I remember we walked through the mall
right after that and we like we just
normally walk through the mall whatever
but I remember we were like we were like holding arms
and we're just like oh my god this feels incredible
like what's happening right now
whole being born again
yeah and that's how it felt so yeah
we were kind of like on this cloud nine and I had told my husband
the night before everything and
which is which is unusual because usually I would tell
my mom everything first yeah I had actually told my husband everything first
and so she was the second person I had come
and told it to and so
can I just compliment like I just imagine Brian
for such a long
oh my god oh my god oh hang on
here we go I'm gonna drink
okay it's like a sailor
fragment crystal yeah
I see the issue it says
your version of chrome has a bug that causes
virtual backgrounds
and the thing to crash so I might have to update my chrome
okay okay well um
yeah so I just imagine Brian
for so much of his like live with married life
just smiling and nodding through like stuff that he doesn't
necessarily oh yeah
yeah I'm just so awesome it's so
I mean Brian is the only of unconditional
love yeah yeah
yeah he's on my phone
yeah that's great
wow so you guys
describe it almost like a
like a born again experience but I guess the opposite
the way I describe it
for myself was like it was really scary
and confrontational and and heartbreaking like
I really hated losing a lot
of what I lost but at the same time it was like
stepping out into an alien planet that felt familiar but was
different so it's like I would look at
evolution and like learn about evolution of the big bang
and I'd be like wait this really happened like what
like I could pick up a fossil in my hand and I'm like this
is he 16 million years old or like I could look at
you know we had a dog a beagle and we got his
um his uh his nuts cut off um
dissects and I just thought 3.4
billion years of evolution his like line has
and we just cut him off because we didn't want him to deal with the
the uh the humping of cushions or
so I'm like that is wild to me like that
3.4 billion years or have a 3.5 however long it is
of this one like genome
that's just successfully grown all the way into our beagle
and we're just like let's get his nuts cut off it I just
it was it almost
it almost became not the cutting off the nuts but it almost became
you know like a big like
like learning about the world became like a big thing
uh we have a little super chat from the pope
Oh Aaron I saw Aaron
Aaron Coulson $20 thank you
Stacy on your recent 1500 subscriber stream
felt confident enough to express that she supports
our women's rights to choose uh also being
like watching Stacy's journey since she told you
that she doesn't okay okay
I watch every single interview
my daughter does if she does it live
but she doesn't even watch them if it's live I watch
them if they're not done live
the minute they're released
I watch them I share them
I rewatch them I am
the proudest it's like she
as far as I'm concerned she should have a star
on the walk of fame that's how proud I am
no I brag about her everywhere
and she has said
that she wanted to be famous
literally but she didn't want to be a movie star
that's what's so weird she's ever since she was
tiny I want to be famous but I don't want to be in the movies
I'm like well how are you going to do that I don't know
and she's doing it for
good reason now so I'm just
so proud Aaron I am so proud of her
I brag about her everywhere what's it been like watching my journey
it's been like watching her become famous
I just love it I'm proud I'm the proudest mommy
ever you've never
I brag about her everywhere
so it's been amazing it's also probably been
super weird to just like no but like
see me doing it in this context
it hasn't been weird though
no no I'm sorry
to me okay it was a relief for me
I guess it would have been weird if I still believed
because I just took that
I took that sigh of relief
and we've just got we've just it's been like gangbusters
oh that's true it has been yeah if I
it would be weird for me it would have been weird
and yeah you yeah
I just took a sigh of relief and here we are because we've talked so much about like
oh there was like with you that
oh there was this side there was this side I was like oh yeah
oh yeah I think it's been more weird for her
to yeah I think
I don't know it's been wonderful it's been amazing
and yes well I'm
I'm really glad we have you here say because maybe you could help
because I want to move into a section where we talk a little bit about advice
because I've had people reach out to me numerous times
but most recently I had this really long discord
DM from someone basically saying that they fear
about losing their family
but they also don't want to live
they want to live authentically
they don't want to live unauthentically
they want to live authentically and they can't
they don't know what to do and that's a big problem that I had
with a lot of
Amy's family is Amy wasn't ready to I guess come out
to her family and but I felt like
really like it was affecting our relationship because I couldn't be myself
I couldn't be like I learned this really cool new thing
or I did this cool thing on my channel but before we get into the
advice section let me just shout out
your channel the states
you can see Amy in eyes
yeah that's awesome why are we so dark
in that episode I don't know you didn't have your new lights
maybe I don't know
any time
any time but coming up
more importantly is you guys have a happy birthday stream
tomorrow
so you're turning 20 and 30
is that right well if he's turning 20
that would mean I was 40
okay so
Stacy turned 40 last week
and I already spilled the beans I'm turning 60
in March
yep so we're doing a joint live stream tomorrow so together we're 100
oh that's crazy
we have 100 years
between us so I gave birth to Stacy just a couple
weeks before I turned 20 I was still technically 19
but that's what you do when you're Christian
you just push babies out
yeah
we have some friends that have many children
many children
okay before we move on
I want to say something though
this has been awesome
I don't want it to seem like though it's been all sunshine lollipops and rainbows
she has a brother
I've mentioned him a couple of times
and he is not in our lives anymore
at the moment I'm not saying that's forever
but he
his reality is his reality
and sometimes his reality doesn't match up
with our reality
and his memory is
he was made to feel guilty for not going to church
we don't remember that but
he's upset with us now for not being Christian
ah okay so alright
because I wanted to ask you about this
because it's my understanding that he's not a Christian right
technically no
but what would he say he's a Christian
he would say he would
he would say he believes in God
so since coming out
you guys have lost
a family member essentially
how did that first happen
if you don't mind me prying
I was really excited to share this with my brother
I was like oh
maybe we'll actually connect in this way
my brother and I
I don't know we just were looking for a way to
part of Stacy's deconstruction when she first left
Charismatic Christianity
and he was really happy about that
because he never believed in the Charismania
the craziness of it and we connected in that way
and he's like I never believed in any of that
and I was like yeah I'm realizing that
he's crazy he's like yeah that's what I was saying when I was like 14
and I'm like I'm realizing that now
and then when
so then when I actually deconverted completely I was really excited to share that with him
and so I thought we would really connect in that way
and then at first it seemed like
we were kind of coming to terms
with that together and then after a while
he just kind of turned and was angry
so it was a very strange response
that I wasn't expecting
so anyway so yeah
so it's not all great
I'm a happy person by nature
so am I
yeah and so
when I'm on shows
and stuff like I'm a very energetic person
but not that's been one thing that's been kind of
behind the scenes has been kind of like
rough to just kind of be like
okay I have lost someone that's close to me
and he hasn't been very kind about it but I'm not letting
I'm also realizing I can put up that boundary sometimes
yeah so
so how long has it been
I guess since you guys have had contact
the last time I had contact was in October
but before that it was last February
so about a year
when you ask does he give an answer
of why things are shaky or is it complicated
I don't really know he just sends
the odd unkind message
so we just said we're not interested
I just put up boundaries
yeah well I can't think of
anyone more perfect to answer these questions
because you've had
the extremes I guess of both situations
so what would you say
to someone who's afraid of living
they want to live an authentic life but
they no longer believe and they know it would affect
let's just hypothetically say we know
it will affect their family
I think being authentic is definitely
the way to be
but also know that boundaries are okay
because I think in the church you're told
oh you have to forgive how many times are you told to forgive in the church
70 times a day
and so obviously
I'm not saying don't forgive but also
have those boundaries and that's an okay
thing to have
so I have
boundaries I'm not
you look like
guys I think I'm just throwing a cheat code for this
when you're confessing that you no longer believe ask them for the forgiveness that you no longer believe
because then they have to right because otherwise they're not a Christian
I was like what is that look you're like wait
I just found the cheat code so that's what you do
ask forgiveness that you no longer believe
that's great
I think you can forgive the person but you don't
that doesn't mean you have to have the back in your life
so I have no resentment
I'm not having any animosity but it's also like
I need to have those boundaries that doesn't mean you get to have
access to my life at all
at all times just because we're related
if every interaction leaves you feeling like
oh no there's two versions
we're back
if every interaction leaves you feeling like absolute shit
that's toxic it doesn't matter who it is
and I was saying
a lot of times people will say
with parents
it's totally acceptable to have those boundaries
with parents who have not been good parents
I was saying
I feel guilty for not feeling guilty
and it's my son
I said it's not often talked about with other relationships
to have those boundaries so it's like you can have
parents who might not be great but like
there's other relationships in your life and it's
it goes both ways
so anyways
so I have thoughts on
so I have thoughts on coming out it's funny
because when we decided
we didn't decide to necessarily come out
what happened is Colin
first guest on Deep Drinks
he wanted to support the channel
so he's like I sent your podcast to everybody
and I was like oh my gosh
and I told
we're in this like backyard kiddie pool that we bought
and I told Amy I was like
do you want me to tell him to take it down
and she's like no whatever and then all of a sudden
I get a message from my sister in law saying oh my god
Deep Drinks and I was like
and she goes it's amazing queen
because I always say yeah that's queen to her
and she goes it's amazing and I was like
and she's like why didn't you tell us I don't really want to
I know that a lot of the content would conflict with a lot of your ideas
a lot of the other members weren't necessarily supportive
they weren't aggressive but
what I really found was before that
when they had the inklings that we were no longer Christian
it was very much worse
it was like confrontational
it was little like things
that were slipped in I remember doing yard work
or work with someone in the family and they would say stuff like
God's really gifted the German people
with craft for building tools
and I've had these tools like everything was about God
and then when I finally came to
a whole discussion about
whether or not Michelle Obama is trans
which was a conversation I actually had
I remember that
one of the questions they asked me was do you believe in the devil
and then at the end of that conversation
they were like well there you go
we believe the devil is using
transgender ideology to teach the kids
but at the end of that conversation
because I was just upfront and honest
although half the family left the room and it was me arguing with a few people
we hugged it out at the end
things were okay and I think knowing
what I was at was actually
probably better than
dragging them through the mud for so long
like they're not knowing but in saying that
we had many moments of tears
when we're being very ambiguous of frustration
of anger of fear
so
what I really want to say is
when you first deconstruct
it's a shock to people
that love and care for you
it was a shock for you Stacey
when you found out your mum was having sex
not because of any other reason
but it probably shifted your perspective of her identity
which then affected your identity
it's like finding out your neighbour is a murderer
oh it's exactly like that
exactly like that
I didn't mean it like that
but it's
so the advice is
let them be as angry and aggressive
give them a year to just get it all out
prostitise you, ask questions back
tell them like oh so they found
okay and then ask them questions about that
eventually but after a year
or however long you want it to be 6 weeks, 6 months
draw a line and say look I'm not willing to let you
prostitise to me anymore
if you want to talk to have a conversation or you want to tell them about something
you're going to have to
I'm not comfortable in these areas, I'm comfortable in these areas
I think that's a pretty fair approach because
you need to expect that people are going to be kind of shocked
and all for a little while
and if you can just embrace that period
and let them ask questions and let them
tell you about things and you just sit there and
be calm and collected, it's very hard
especially if you're a new angry atheist but I think
that's a good way to approach everything
sorry
my brother didn't prostitize to me
or as he just
his message to me was put me on your podcast
and I was like
it was just super aggressive
you talked about me put me on your show
it was like
no
okay so
Seth
latest
the thinking atheist
what just happened to it, it's called
letter to a Christian spouse, everybody should go watch it
it's amazing
it's not just to a Christian spouse
it doesn't matter what the title of this is
it's not just to a Christian spouse
it's not just to a Christian spouse
it's not just to a Christian spouse
it's not only members and friends
of atheists
it is amazing
I posted it on my Facebook
it is so good, he is just the kindest man
I totally loved this guy
the thinking atheist letter to a Christian spouse
watch that. It is so good. And you could all post it on your
page or send it to someone in your family who may be still be
a it's just so good and so kind and thoughtful. And it's
amazing. Yeah. So yeah, he it's it's just really good.
If my mom's watching, here's the one with a really nice voice
that you said has a really nice voice. Yeah, Sylvia, there are
two people with really nice voices on your podcast, Seth
Andrews and read nice wonder. Oh, well now. Durante, wait,
she hasn't. Durante. She's gonna. Durante is coming. Oh my
goodness. She's gonna love Durante. Anyway. Oh, right.
Isn't she? Yeah. I call Crystal the on the present. She's
everywhere. She's amazing. She's literally everywhere. I don't
know how I think she's like 20 people. We love you. What
would you give what advice would you give to your younger
closeted self? Would you have come out earlier? Yes. Yes, I
would have number one to Hi, Sylvia to number one to save my
daughter so much anxiety and so much stress. I would do that for
her. And number two, to say it to salvage the relationship with
my son, what's going on right now? Because even though I didn't
put pressure on him to not be accused of it right now, I think
it might have I think it might have helped because she put the
pressure on herself to be perfect. And then he put the pressure
on himself to be like me to be like Stacy. So I would do it
just for my my kids. And how would you do it? Let's say you
stop believing because it's usually like a very gradual
process, right? Okay, good question. What I would have
done. I wish I would have just I tried a couple of times to
break away from my mother, but I did it the wrong way. And
people just thought I was losing my mind. Literally, people
just thought I oh, she's having a nervous breakdown or
something. She's just losing it. I just didn't know how to break
away from my mother. And I did try a couple of times. And then I
just yeah, my mother was a very controlling, domineering.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I just needed to break away from my mother a
lot sooner than I did. And I felt some kind of sense of
responsibility, I think as the oldest child to hang in there
with her, my brother and my sister were a lot smarter in
that area, they were able to get away from her. And I just felt
like, well, I'm the last one standing, I got to hang in there.
And I didn't, I didn't have to she didn't deserve what she
didn't deserve my loyalty. And I really felt like I owed it to
her. And I don't know why. It's just my personality. I'm a
born people pleaser. Christian or not Christian. I'm a nice
person to my own detriment sometimes. Yeah, she's very
manipulative, my mother. Yeah.
So
coming out so like coming out to like Stacy, like how would you
do that if you were to like tell her? Oh, yeah. Oh, wouldn't
you tell me? I'm having sex.
No, you should have known. But I was so on the cusp. I was like,
I was right there. Yeah, that conversation that I had with you
in the car, like you guys, I was upstairs howling. But that was
when I told you now. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But that was my kind of
like, I don't think I believe I like that was my sort of like, I
am so close to not believing I don't like, I'm holding on by a
thread right now. Yeah. And that was my way of being like,
saying how I don't think Christians are arts. I was
thinking they're hypocritical and that is enough. And I was just
like, okay, so if you were actually like in the, okay, so
if I had said that when you were living in Surrey, and going to
church, and you were like, I didn't have my hands up then.
No, no, but no, but if I was in a reform chair, no, but if I
know, but if I've got you right in the thick of when you were
Oh, I would have been. I don't know. I would have been like,
wait, what? I would have investigated because I'm a very
I'm the kind of person that like if someone changes something, I
want to be like, wait, what did they find out? Because I found
out sex was really good.
And that's when Stacy started having sex with Brian.
No, but I'm saying because even I have a friend and she and I are
like, we're friends on Instagram and we're acquaintances in
person. Yeah. And she was a very strong Christian and she
started posting her deconstruction on Instagram. Right.
It grabbed me enough that I started following her posts.
Okay, because I'm like, what is she finding out what? And I was
like, almost wanting to debunk it. Okay. And I was like, wait,
this is making sense. So her deconstruction started kind of
like, okay, like picking away at me. So like, if you would have
said something to me, I would have been like, hold on. Okay, I
need to investigate this. But at the same time, I'm almost glad
she didn't tell me because everyone convinces us of having
the exact same mind. That's true. And if she would have come out
first, everyone would have said, oh, you're just doing it
because your mom. Yeah. That's true. And my husband is so
sweet. Yes. And so he was the person I was going to. Yeah,
that's kind of like saying so many people accuse her of doing
things just because I do it all happened the way it should.
And so when I finally did come out, he said to me, Brian, my
husband, he said to me, he's like, I am so like, he was just so
impressed because he's like, you came to all of this completely
on your own, you were not like influenced by a single person.
And it's true. He's like, it's not like I started hanging out
with a new friend that was like, hey, like, I've just
deconverted. And actually, I became an atheist on my own too.
I just couldn't. Yeah. And he was like, he's like, this was all
your critical thinking, your rational everything. And so it
was just in that way, it was really cool because that's
awesome. And I'm actually really glad. Like, yeah, I don't
I'm glad that you I'm not glad that you had to do this for so
long. Yeah. But the fact that people have always just thought
we have the same brain and we we have the same opinion because
we're close. I'm glad that I did this completely. Like someone
will get mad at me, David, and stop talking to her and vice
versa. Yeah, seriously. Yeah, that's wild. Yeah, it's crazy. So
it's I'm just kind of like happy that it was a separate thing.
Yeah. Yeah, that's true. So yeah, it happened. I just wish
so I'm I have some exclusive footage of Stacy worshipping
and I'm going to show I'm kidding. Oh, my God. The video
I took. No, no, I'm not going to show it. I don't care.
Stacy was still a couple of wines the other night and sent
myself in Durante video video. Oh, my God, she's doing her
worshipping.
I don't care. Now that you said it, I feel like the audience
Oh, they love that. Show it. Okay, should we show it? Should
we show some videos of I'm
explained. I wasn't drunk. She was it. I wasn't drunk. You got to
give the back story. Show it like halfway in the middle.
Because I've got to get it first. Hang on. Let me. Okay. So you
tell the story. Last week, we had Durante on and on Skepta
Kalen, because David and I are co hosts and we had Durante on
who's in the chat. Hi, Durante. And we were talking about the
the song Healer from the song. Yeah. And I had it stuck in my
head like, like the rest of the week. And I want you had our
song stuck in your head. I don't know if it was that song.
No, I had healers stuck in my head. So I went up to the
Google in my living room and I was like, Hey, Google, play
Healer. And it started playing the wrong song. And so I was like,
play it. And I was like, wait, this isn't the song. And then
it started playing another song. And I was like, wait, I know
this song. It ended up not being the right song. It got me
right into like the worship. And then I was like showing how I
used to worship. Yeah. Okay, it was so good. You don't have to
show the whole thing. You could just show like, I'll just show
it. It's so good. I was like, Oh my god, I'm it is unlisted on
my channel. Are you sure? Like, I don't want anyone to see this.
You can't show this at the moment. I might not be able to play
the full audio because Oh, if you want to just like, you can
mute it, show it with no sounds. This is okay. You can
bring it through. This is for research. There I said, okay,
research. But doing it, bring it through. I was like, this isn't
the song.
This is so for our patrons.
That was the hands out.
Right.
She's also had one. And then there's the
I've never heard this song. See, I never went to worship. You
can mute it. It'll get copyrighted. And then there's
the hall. Oh, there's the point. You have the point. I would
put my hand on my chest and point that I was too afraid to
run today. I'm having flashbacks. That's how I would know
that's literally how I would like worship in church. And this
way, you'll see this way.
Look at my face. I know. I think that I think what's amazing
is you're like, you kind of like point out that you kind of
miss worship because
do you miss this? And she said yes, out of missing. I went
yes. I like that was and she didn't like worship. I hated it.
I really did. Hang on. But we got
Yes. Thank you, Aaron. Hand on the heart means you really I
did. I like I really, I really meant it. Like I was just like
there. Well, I didn't like it.
Let me just share. So we got the video of D how you used to
worship.
Oh, yeah.
We do. We do. This is so fun. And then I sent them. Yes.
Okay, nitty, you and I could have worshiped together. Watch
this. So I sent him. This is how my mom used to worship.
Okay, all right. Here we go. Okay, I love it.
I'm crazy. Here's me. I thought she was just being super
holy. And I was thinking, Oh, fuck, let this be over. I was not
I was like, let's just keep going. Because I love it. Holy
Spirit speak to me. We were very opposite. Oh, my God, I'm so
bored. Okay, I'm done. Okay.
So good. It's so good. I'm so glad we could show that. This is
what this is what we talk about. Maybe I would have snuck
out my God, ice cream. Oh, my God. Oh, Michael Beverly, thank
you. We got you a super chat. I miss worship until I discover
techno and party favors realizing that going to club was
better than church was a feeling. Thank you so much.
Can I tell you that like right after that video, I went out
to the bar. Oh, yeah, she did. For my birthday home and baby
sat and she went out to the bar. That's so good. And she parted
with a guy who's like older than me. He's like 70. Yeah. How
did that happen? Oh, he's a friend. I'm like friend of all
here. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah, cool. My birthday. Anyway, sorry,
we're just like, yeah. Um, everyone make sure you come and
check out the birthday stream tomorrow. We're gonna be what
time is it going to be for me? It's 10am. Okay, 4pm Pacific
time. 4 to 7 with lots of fun guests and some are surprised
that we don't even know. Awesome. Yeah. Cool. Well, that's
gonna be exciting. So make sure you go over to the Stacy's
Bombs podcast and subscribe, send an emoji of one of your
favorite drinks, whether it's a martini or a coffee or whatever
and then you guys will know that you come from deep. Thank you
so much for coming on D and Stacy. Is there any last advice
you would give to folks who are maybe deconstructed and then
we can end the show there.
If you're in the closet, just come out. It's worth it. Just
don't be scared. Reach out. Just even if it's online, reach
out to one of us. Just all these people in the chat, they all
care. Durante is amazing. This is amazing. We're all amazing.
I wouldn't call me that. He's a bit. No, I'm kidding. Nitty's
amazing. Hang out with Nitty. Just found out we have the same
worship style. So there's that. So there's that. Yeah. No,
honestly and truly all kidding aside, as scary as it might
feel when your life is too short. Life is too short and I
wish I could get some of it back.
I actually have a question. Another question. When you
deconstructed, did that affect your worldview in regards to
like how important, like how you wanted to live your life? For
me, uh, uh-oh, are you going? Bye.
What?
Um, I'll, I'll, I'll finish. What a great way to end.
Hello.
Yeah. So, um, so worldview. Oh, life. Yes. Well, for Stacy,
she's like, oh my God, there isn't an afterlife. Um, so I need
to really enjoy all this and then she got this. Oh my God,
if something happens to my kids, this is it, right? Um,
I was just always scared of hell. When I finally just last
year stopped believing in hell, because even when I
deconstructed, I was still scared of hell. I just stopped
in hell like last May. That's it. I'm just don't believe in
hell anymore. Every so often, it still kind of creeps in a
little bit. I'm not going to lie. I'm not going to lie. It
takes a long time for that pathway to make a new pathway.
Yeah. So, yeah. It's funny because it did for me for such
a long time as well and, but recently I found myself loving
the mythology around hell. So I get like excited, like I'm
about to play a video game or something like, oh, like, wouldn't
it be epic? Like, I don't know, but, uh, but I know that a
lot of people, even atheists of many years, like, don't,
like, never get over this before. Yeah. It's, it, yeah. Other
than that, no, I just, I'm, I'm sad that I'm, I'm, I'm sad
that I'm turning 60 because I really have a lot less life
ahead of me than Stacy does. And I'm sad about that. So
that's about it. But yeah, that's true. Um, but some, there's
so many, you can live so much in such a short amount of time
if you're trying. Yeah. Yeah. Like, I remember, I remember
when I, before we deconstructed, I said to Amy, I was reading
the love wins or whatever the book and it was about heaven
and hell. And I was like, what if there is no heaven and hell?
And she's like, I don't like that. I don't like that thought.
I don't like that thought. And then a few days later, she's
like, if there is no heaven and hell, I want to make the most
of this life. And I was like, yeah. Yeah. We went traveling
and we did things, you know. Yeah. Um, yeah. Well, thank you
guys so much for coming on. I really appreciate it. It's
been a blast. We love you so much. We love you. You're a
wonderful family and your mom and we just think you're
fantastic. Oh, thank you. I really appreciate that. You know
we love you. Love you too. Well, uh, I'll see you all next
week. Next week we have, um, MindShift on branded from
MindShift. Amazing. Love you. See you later guys. See you
tomorrow. Have a great day. Tomorrow.
