Welcome, everyone, to Deep Drinks Podcast. We're back, baby. Today we have a very special
guest. His name is Matt Dillahunty. He has lovers. He has haters. I would say he's one
of, if not the most influential atheists in the world at the moment. He's about a lot
of likes of Jordan Peterson, Ray Comfort, Michael Kona, Michael Egner, Psy10BurtonKate,
and many more. They're just a few of my favorites. He's hosted thousands of calling shows today.
Joining me over is Matt Dillahunty. Thanks for coming on.
My pleasure. How are you doing?
Really, really good. It's good to be back. We took a little hiatus after some stream drama
that we were talking about previously. Yes, we're back ready to rock and roll,
live the past behind us, and here drinking ice tea with you. How are you doing?
I'm okay. I had some, for those who don't know, hi, I'm just me. But I had a couple of health
issues over the last few years, including a triple bypass open heart surgery, and I'm diabetic. We
had to make some adjustments to my meds, and I had to cancel a convention. I didn't get to go to
BajaCon, and I was supposed to be the guest speaker on the Black Non-Believers cruise,
but I had to cancel that. So basically, I'm not doing any big traveling for the rest of the year,
but I feel pretty good. And I think we've got the changes to my meds mostly sorted out.
So yeah, I feel all right.
Well, I will say that over, since seeing you had those health problems and stuff,
you're looking really healthy. I don't know if you've changed your diet or exercising something,
but you're looking fit. Yes. I'm sitting here looking at the fact that I didn't shave. So
for those of those who don't know, in addition to all the other stuff that I do in the atheist,
secular, humanist, skeptic communities, Arden and I also keep and breed reptiles.
And because we keep and breed reptiles, that means we also keep and breed rats and mice
as well, and dubia roaches, et cetera. And so every day, there's something new going on. Literally,
this morning, we hatched our first two crested geckos ever. We've hatched quite a few snakes,
and there's like 38 more eggs in the incubator downstairs. But my day alternates between me
sitting down and doing prep work for podcasts and stuff like that, and then going out and working
with the rats and everything. Plus, we just also got a black and white Argentine tegu that was a
rescue from somebody who was moving to Florida where they're illegal. And I'm like, man, I'm
doing a podcast. I haven't shaved that, you know, I look rough. Rugged, rugged, you know,
that's that you got a rugged look on. I like it. I am all rugged. So we're drinking iced tea, right?
Have you got an iced tea with you? I didn't even check before we started.
I have this monstrous icy. So these glasses used to exist like at Pizza Hut when I was a kid.
These were the default Pizza Hut glasses, and I loved them. So I just bought a bunch of them.
Oh, man, wasn't Pizza Hut a treat back in the day? It was, yeah. Oh, jeez. That plays in the
like in the ice cream and just like I loved it. So I made, I said to my wife, I said,
hey, I gotta make iced tea. What tea can I use? Because she has about 1000 teas. And she said
any. So I made one with English breakfast. You have iced tea that's English breakfast tea?
And she said, no, she goes, no, no, that's the one that you probably couldn't have used. And I
was just like, so I tasted it. Let me taste it now, actually. It's probably awful. Yeah,
it's not very nice. So then she made me one, which is much better.
That doesn't look like green tea. Where, where, where the hell are you, David?
I'm in the Sunshine Coast in Australia. Okay, well, that's fair. So the first time,
for example, the first time I went to the UK, there was pretty much nobody who had,
who served iced tea and I drink a lot of iced tea and not sweet. No, no, sweet tea is not tea.
But and so I was there like 98, 99 and nobody had iced tea. And I went back
many years later and everybody had iced tea. And I was like, I have, I have changed England.
The first time I was there, I was working for Dell and I was working on motherboards
Celestica UK and people I was sitting there and I was, I was asking for iced tea and
literally somebody asked me, why would you go to all the trouble to brew something and
then make it cold? And I was like, beer? Exactly. Yeah, exactly. Like almost every alcoholic beverage.
Yeah. Yeah. Wow. So do you, are you, do you drink like alcohol? Or is that something you don't?
I do on occasion. I don't, I don't really liked, I drink a lot when I was in the Navy.
And I have alcoholics in my family. I, I'm definitely not an alcoholic because
it's really easy for me to, to drink or not drink. I generally like my brain when it's working. I
didn't used to, I didn't like to be drunk or high around other people. I mean, I've done
plenty of drugs, but it's more of a, hey, nobody's going to be around. So this weekend, you know,
we're going to do shrooms or acid or whatever else. But it's, I prefer my brain when it's
working right now. Lately, because of my diabetic neuropathy, I use, I use a lot of
medical marijuana to, to ease my diabetic brain. So I'm, I'm, if I'm not on a podcast or a show,
I'm high. And if I'm on a podcast or show, I'm definitely not. So hence the iced tea. But I love
well, you know, bourbon. Yeah, I've got, I've had a few guests who, who only smoke and they,
they won't drink. And not that this is a show we have to get, like this, we have sober guests on
all the time and stuff. But, but yeah, like we don't have, well, like weed isn't legal in Australia,
not even for, it's very hard to get still. So, so until that happens, I can't, you know, we,
when it does happen, I might smoke someone's stream and, or at least before, before stream
and then have a panic attack, deep, deep herbs or whatever it's called. But, but we can, everyone
can watch me have a panic attack because that's what happens to me every time I do it. But
that's what happened to me. So like, I tried marijuana when I was a teenager and didn't
really do much for me. And I didn't really care for it. And I just never really did it again.
And then probably five or six years ago, I was dating somebody and I wasn't sleeping. My, my
diabetic nerve pain and stuff was, I was getting like an hour and a half to maybe two and a half
hours of sleep a night. And finally, she's like, here, try this, you'll sleep. And I tried it and
I slept and I was like, okay, cool, I will, what I'll do is I'll do my whole day sober. And then
an hour, two before it's time for me to go to bed, I'll, you know, eat a gummy or whatever
else and I will sleep like a baby. And it worked out well. Yeah, I think I'm going to look at that
personally because I'm the same issues. I can't sleep sometimes. But, but it's just some, sometimes
it just hits me funny. Like, I don't know if it's a strand or something, but it just hits me funny.
And it feels like the volume of life gets turned up for days. Like it's, it's, it's like, right,
like I'm walking down the street and like, ah, birds, ah, like everything's just so loud,
which is, which is not the experience a lot of people have. So I got a fun brain.
Yeah. I have a question for you. And we normally wait till the end to ask this question. But
okay, I thought I'd ask it at the start. So we can dive right into it. And I want you to really,
I want you to really give this a, like give this, give this, give this some thought and give this
like an answer. Let's say you had this magic genie that popped out of, or something because
your magic genie would be hard. But for some reason, you knew that one of the world's religions
were true, objectively true. One of the world's theistic religions were true.
You just knew one of them was true, one of the major ones. And you had to guess which one was
true. You had to put your bets, I guess, on one. Which religion is the most plausibly true to you?
Just for clarity. Yeah. Are we asking, are we asking which one I would prefer to be true?
Or which one I think is most likely most plausibly true? Yeah.
Well, you asked it at the beginning of the show and you want me to think about it. So maybe I
think about it for the whole show and then answer it at the end. Yeah. Okay. We can do that for
sure. We can do that. It's a tough question. And let me tell you why it's brilliant. Because
you can ask a Christian as well. What's the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe
in is the question that I normally ask. And I think it's actually interesting because it
gets people to think about, I guess, the merits of like, how do we know what we truly know? And
that's one of the things I wanted to talk to you about. Because, and first of all, let me just say
you are probably the one of the most influential people in my deconstruction. Do you remember
that someone made that four hour compilation of you, like arguing people on various talk shows?
Do you remember that one? I don't tend to watch compilations of me. Okay. I don't tend to watch
me. I used to I don't know why anybody's watching me, but I'm not trying to ruin your show. I used to
drink some scotch and I would play Starcraft 2 and I would watch that I listened to that four hour
like video on repeat for ages when I was deconstructing my faith. And, you know, I've
heard a lot of your arguments. But one of the things that really, you know, and they probably
change over time, but one of the things that really stood out to me is you have this ability to,
I guess, make logic reasoning fun. And you have this ability to kind of like, I guess, cut through
the philosophy and just talk about things as if they're just literally very simple
questions. And sometimes they're complex questions and you'll bring it down. You saw this when you
talked to Jordan Peterson, I think. So I'm wondering if you could touch a little bit on
like your approach to epistemology. Like, how do we know what we truly know? How do you,
how do we, where do we start from? Where do we, and how do we, I guess, build a case for a consistent
worldview? Yeah, I think a good chunk of my foundations in epistemology. I mean, obviously,
I've talked about it many times, being a huge proponent of David Hume and what leads into
modern skepticism, being distinct from ancient Greek skepticism. Matter of fact, if anybody wants to
know the difference or understand the difference between ancient Greek skepticism and modern
skepticism, I'd recommend listening to A.C. Grayling. As a matter of fact, at QED,
I'm not going to remember which year, but it was the QED that I was at. So if you find the QED,
I was at. A.C. Grayling, I sat down to an interview with him, but he also gave a great talk
on the history of skepticism and covering the difference. For me, David Hume,
you know, even for people who don't care about philosophy or don't care about epistemology,
that's one to at least read the cliff notes on to get the basics of this. That was the beginnings,
and then you get to Karl Popper's falsifiability as a key cornerstone of what makes a hypothesis
testable. I'm self-taught. I don't have a credit hour in anything or a degree in anything. And so
the process that I had to go through to help me understand things, and I'm a reasonably smart
person and a quick learner, but that made it much easier for me to explain complex subjects
to other people. I've always said, if I don't have any expertise in anything, but if I did,
it might be in taking complex situations and making them approachable. And so for me, when it
comes down to epistemology, it's Hume's, one of Hume's many axioms is the wise man proportions
his belief to the evidence. And I just rewrite that to remove any gender reference to it. The
wise person has a confidence level that is proportional to the evidence itself for that claim.
And I watch people, and what I did was I took stock of everything I believed when I got to the
point where I was like, oh, I clearly can't be a biblically literate Christian. And by that,
I mean, I can't take the Bible literally, not that I can't read it. But once I realized that
wasn't the case, it was a process of, okay, what, what do I believe it? And if I had moral positions
because of my religion, finding whether or not those moral positions were still true and finding
a foundation for that was probably the next search. So I kind of went from, how do I tell
whether or not this is true? And I was active at least in the modern skeptic community. But
early on, you know, when we go like the amazing meeting with James or Andy and everybody,
there were there were plenty of theists who fancied themselves skeptics. And I know somebody's
already pissed off. I don't know what language restrictions I have on here, but no, no, no
language. You can swear as much as you want. I'm Australian. Fuckening. So I know somebody's mad
that I said fancied themselves skeptics. I'm not saying they weren't skeptics. I'm not the litmus
test for skepticism. But when you open a skeptic conference with a talk that says, Hey, some people
here are religious, and we'd rather you guys just avoid those conversations. That's about the time
that I was sitting here saying, Hey, maybe maybe the skeptic community's got a ways to go as well.
I'm disappointed that the atheist community isn't skeptical enough. I'm disappointed that
the skeptical community isn't atheistic enough. And as I was, the process that I would run through
is after I figured out, Hey, do I don't have a good reason to believe this? So number one is
understand the the value of a validly structured logical argument. Just
learn syllogisms, learn syllogistic forms, look at Aristotle and his band of Mary logicians and
how they're taking a major premise, a minor premise and a connecting term. It's always that
simple. And when they were able to catalog all 256 different potential syllogistic forms and show
which of them are valid. And by valid, it means if you put true premises in, the conclusion must
also be true. And the second important thing to remember is that because we know that a valid
structure is one where true premises lead to true conclusions, that it doesn't matter if the premises
are true. It does. But I mean, not for this. What matters is do you accept them? Because if you
accept, if you're convinced that the premises are true, you have no grounds to object to the
conclusion. And that's what we call someone being irrational or being unreasonable, they are not
consistent with the basics of reason. And so this is one of the reasons why logical arguments like
reductio ad absurdums, where you assume a premise which you don't believe or that you want to test
or reject, you assume it's true, and you see what conclusion that leads to, like, Okay, if this will
assume that the sky, that the moon is made of green cheese, what conclusion do we go to? You
construct a syllogism that gets down to a conclusion that you know is false. And now you know that
that that premise that you assumed is unreliable. That's the beginnings. The next most important
thing is to realize that a fallacious argument in structure does not mean the conclusion is false.
That would be the fallacy fallacy that because there's a fallacy, this is false. No, that's
not how it works. A fallacious argument means you have no way to tell whether the conclusion is true
or false. That's the beginnings of that, getting used to recognizing logical fallacies and seeing,
oh, can I construct an argument for what my position is? Do I have good reason? After that,
it's digging into broader principles like, you know, epistemology and the philosophy of science,
where, as I mentioned, Karl Popper's notions of falsifiability, a hypothesis that isn't testable
is useless. And a hypothesis that isn't falsifiable isn't testable. Falsifiable just means
there is in principle some way to show this is false. I'm getting ready to do a video
probably next week, because I got in an argument on Facebook with an individual who posted a meme
that said deism is unfalsifiable, but theism is falsifiable. And I decided, okay, I disagree with
this person, but I'm going to entertain this. And so I went to ask them, okay, how would you
falsify theism? And their response was to say, well, it'll take a while, but you can go through each
one of the gods and show that they're false. And after I stopped laughing for like five minutes,
I tried to explain to this individual that, first of all, that's preposterous.
You have to have both falsifiability in principle and in practice. There's no way you could go
through every potential god and show that they're all false. But second of all, you're assuming that
you could show that they're all false. But also, you're only talking about the gods that people
have proposed. And we know some of those are unfalsifiable. You haven't even begun to talk
about the gods that people haven't proposed yet. Presumably, some of those are likely to be
unfalsifiable. So in the set of gods that make up theism or in the set theism, there are subsets
of pockets of gods where some of them are falsifiable and some of they're not. If any god in the set
of theism is unfalsifiable, then the set is unfalsifiable because there's nothing, there's at
least one item in there that can't be shown to be false. And so I won't go into the whole video.
The guy was actually talking about something else, but was so sloppy in how he talked about it,
that he's sitting here claiming theism is falsifiable. And I'm like, how? I don't see it.
Yeah, I lose so many friends when I get onto Facebook arguments. I try to keep my arguments
with Twitter. That's why I'm so spicy there sometimes. But I'm trying not to do that. I think
it's good for my mental health. But to be honest, so are you saying that like, so we could have this
idea of the Christian God, right? Let's just use the Christian God. And the Christian God could
exist. It's unfalsifiable whether or not the Christian God does exist. But the things written
about that Christian God may be false. Is that what you're, is that what you're kind of getting at?
Like, like, we can't falsify that the Christian God does exist. There could be a Christian God,
but maybe, and maybe the things written about him are inconsistent and are wrong and are,
you know, false in some way. But there could be a God outside of that that actually does exist.
Well, so we start talking about Christian, the Christian God, you're no longer talking about
theism. You're talking about one item within the set of theist. And, and so if you want to say,
this version of Christianity is falsifiable, falsifiable, I'm fine with that. Just show me,
define the version, show me, you know, how you falsified it. That's fine. It's only, I'm only
talking about the broad set of theism, which includes every different version of theism. So
earlier, at the beginning of the show, when you said, Hey, of all the theistic religions that are
out there, which one are you, do you think is most likely to be true? Or most probably true?
First of all, and I'm still thinking, I think I have an answer for you, but we'll hold off for a
while. Because I don't know all the possible theistic God. So I can only analyze the ones I've
heard about or the pop into my head. Generally speaking, like right now, I may change my mind
for the end of the show, but right now I'm leaning towards Judaism. And the reason for that is that
Islam and Christianity are extensions to that. And so they violate Occam's razor by,
that's not true. They don't violate Occam's razor. They violate a principle of parsimony,
which is often referred to as Occam's razor, because you've got Judaism, and now you're
adding things to it, which further cause it makes it less probable, I would say.
Yeah, it's like saying, which is more probable that I could pull an airplane out of my butt,
or that I could pull a pink glittered airplane with the McDonald's logo on it out of my butt.
The fact that we've added extra factors make it less probable.
Yeah, it's like, it's like, if Christianity is silly, Mormonism is extra silly. You know, it's
adding some spice to the mix. So can you tell, like, trust me as I kind of lead you down this
path, but can you explain a little bit just about what kind of Christian were you? Were you
the type of Christian that spoke in tongues? When you were a Christian, did you feel what you
called then the Holy Spirit? Can you just give us a couple of minutes just to explain why you
were a Christian, why you believed the time? Yeah, sure. My father and his family were Southern
Baptists. My mom was raised predominantly Catholic, although there was a mix in there,
and my dad's brother was a medical missionary. He was a medical doctor. He's retired now,
but he went off to Thailand to do his missions and everything else. He,
my uncle, basically helped lead my mom, who had been raised Catholic,
to convert to be a Protestant Southern Baptist Christian. And they got active in the church.
They had me. Cool. Around the age of five, we were at a revival at
Gashland Baptist Church in Kansas City, Gladstone, Missouri, and I walked down the aisle at the age
of five and accepted Jesus into my heart. My mom and dad had questions at the time about whether
this could be real, could a five-year-old actually understand this, stuff like that,
and they never really talked about that. It cropped up later when they found out I was an
atheist, said, oh, maybe you weren't ever really said or whatever else, which is just absolute
bullshit. Because from the time I was five until I was a teenager, I just believed and went to
church with my parents and lived life, you know, whatever. When I got to be a teenager, I got a
little more active in the church because we moved, and that's where my friends were. And,
but also I enjoyed it. And I started realizing that I couldn't have understood this stuff when I was
a five-year-old. If I'm just beginning to understand it now, then I'm, you know, 12, 13, et cetera.
And so I would get saved again or rededicate my life type thing. I was active in church Sunday
morning, Sunday night, Monday night was visitation, Wednesday night services, Thursday night, I think
was youth group. There were weekend mission trips. I was in church camp, camp Windermere,
Lake of the Ozarks in the summer, which if you've seen the movie Jesus Camp, it's a little like that,
but less political and more fun. But similar stuff. I did not speak in tongues. Generally
speaking, the Southern Baptist community don't speak in tongues and look on it a little dubious,
but I also went to Pentecostal churches on rare occasions, basically for concerts, like they
would have Petra or Carmen come down and do concerts at those churches. And so we'd go to that.
I have a hard time remembering exactly what I believe, because I was exposed to science,
and I definitely accepted evolution, but I don't think I spent any time thinking about
how the Genesis account and evolution were reconciled. I don't think I, it's one of those
things where it's like, you're just like, whatever, I've got my, as Seth Andrews would call them,
I've got my God glasses on. And so I see things in a way that has to make sense all the time.
And so our youth group, and I'm still friends with some of the people in my former youth group,
it was very manipulative. It didn't feel it at the time. I mean, it doesn't feel like you're
being manipulated if they're like, God would be disappointed in you. When it's just a fact,
if the Bible's true, God would be disappointed in the fact that, you know, I had lustful thoughts
or whatever else. And we were, we were an active, fun group. And absolutely there, I was, my mom was
convinced that God was going to make me a preacher, because when I told her I wanted to be a disc jockey,
she said, no, God's already told me what you're going to be. And you know,
I'm right, you kind of are a preacher, just for the different side.
Yeah, I don't give her credit for being right, because I don't think it's what she meant,
but sure. I'm an atheist evangelist, you can call it however you want.
Mainly a skeptic and secular humanist evangelist, more than anything.
But I did all that, and I sincerely believed and was very active, and there were people there
outside of my parents who genuinely thought that I was going to be a preacher or minister or some
stripe. And this is borne out, there's a debate that I did, if you want, you can go Google it.
I debated my glaucoma at the Austin Baptist Church, and at that debate on the resurrection,
a deacon from my former church when I was a teenager, and the parents of one of my best friends,
and I think one other person flew down from Missouri, where they all lived and where I grew up,
to attend this debate. And if you fast forward to the Q&A, there's a gentleman that stands up
during the Q&A, and he says, hey, you may not remember me, my name's so-and-so, I was a deacon
at your church, we all thought you were going to go on to great things for the Lord. What happened?
And I've talked about it many times, my brain immediately wanted me to say, I went on to great
things, just not for the Lord. But instead, I gave him the actual answer that goes through my path
from when he knew me, to when I was able to stand up on stage and reject the claims that
there's any good reason to believe in the resurrection of Christ. And so that was basically
my Southern Baptist notions in a nutshell.
Did you have, would you say, I'm going to use the right comfort line? Did you have a relationship
with Jesus? Like, did you feel like you did at least? Yeah, oh yeah. And I felt standing there at
church and singing and participating. It was, you know, you'd feel elation and euphoria on occasion,
and you get goosebumps and all this. And when everybody around you is saying, ah, yes, that's
the Holy Spirit. Well, then that's what it is, especially if you're a kid, if you're a 12 or
13 year old and you're like, what's this feeling? And you don't know anything about the way music
impacts people, the way rhythmic speech impacts people, the way how wonderful it is, even if it's
not true, to believe that you are special in the eyes of some creator, that there's somebody out
there who knows the answers, you don't know and has got your back and has a plan for your life,
all of those things. You feel that. And so yeah, I felt what at the time I would have described
as the Holy Spirit. And then later, I learned that similar, not identical, similar feelings
can be achieved through listening to secular music, looking at secular art, taking drugs,
having sex, eating really good meals, all of these things that give us dopamine hits in our brain.
I remember is like, I remember sitting down and listening to one of Tori Amos's albums and just
being almost in a state of rapture that I would have experienced at, you know, like a really robust,
you know, like church concert type thing. So yeah, I was convinced that I that I was experiencing
the Holy Spirit right up until I had more plausible explanations. And I could not
draw a distinction between here's what I feel in church. Here's what I feel when I'm off
doing secular things that the church would disapprove of. These are similar feelings,
they're both good. How on earth could I say that one of them is magical, that it comes from a God
when the Oh, are the other ones from the devil? Then why do I feel just this positive? And why
is it about positive messages? But I was quite shocked, actually, I interviewed my wife on
this channel, and I asked her in it, would you can see yourself Christian? And it was the first
time she said no. And it's an it's a really old episode, something like 100 views, but some or
something a couple hundred views. But but she said that she would experience the same feelings that
she did at church at musicals. So she loved Wicked, she loves the Book of Mormon, she like
she's seen a lot of musicals, maybe not the Book of Mormon, like she loved it, but not as much as
like some of the other ones she'd obsessed with musicals, that she's crazy. Like I love her to
death, but she's crazy in regards to musicals. And she would feel the same thing at musicals.
And it's hanging out with me and Arden, we do a lot of music. Oh, yeah, yeah, it's, I've slowly
been getting into it. She she she she listens to me talk about philosophy or religion or whatever.
And so I was like, I need to put in some effort with these musicals. And I've started to really
enjoy them. We just saw Mullen Rouge, it was fantastic. All you need to do is watch the Book of
Mormon, Family Opera, and and let those kind of soak in for a little while. And you'll be hooked.
Okay, you know, I've seen the metal band Nemo, Nemo, Nemo, do a rendition of Phantom of the Opera.
And that was, that was fantastic. Did not lie if I saw it on YouTube, but but it was that I'd
love that part. But so something before I lose my chain of thought.
Oh, so sorry. When you see what I had, I was part of a Pentecostal church. So I saw like I had a friend
writhing on the floor, digging his feet into the grass, putting his hands out in like a cross
shape and eyes looking back and and essentially like having visions for
hours as we like all stood around him praying, laughing. The group of us, all of us, like pulling
the mattresses out of the youth camp all praying for each other, me running around as a new Christian
pretending to paint the blood of Jesus on the walls, like it was a very spiritual-esque thing.
And I remember looking at my friend on the floor and looking at all these, you know,
youth these 15, 16 year olds, 14 year olds crying. It was a Jesus camp kind of thing.
And I said to myself, I said, I can never deny this. I can never deny what's happening in this
room. I can never deny what's happening down near the baptism pool. I can never deny what's
happening out here. I can never deny this. And I don't, I don't deny it. But I just don't
ascribe the same, I believe it happened. I just don't ascribe the same
reasoning for why it happened, right? Like I think you've said about numerous times. It's like
people can have spiritual experiences. You can feel these feelings, but it doesn't necessarily
mean that coming from a God or something in the spirit realm, or I don't even know what the spirit
realm is. But I wanted to kind of touch a little bit about on this a little bit. I wanted to touch
on the dichotomy of like understanding something intellectually. And I guess, and this is going
to make me sound very pseudosciency sloppy, but understanding something from an emotional standpoint.
So when you were five years old and you went down to the altar, you may not have been able to
rationalize things on an intellectual level, but, and I'm playing devil's advocate here,
but you may have been experiencing something in your quote unquote spirit. Now,
you don't believe in a spirit, I'm sure I don't believe in a spirit, but
there was some something in you that was kind of leading you to go down the front there. Do you
put my question? Sorry, I'm getting there. Do you put any weight into that, that perspective?
And just to just to just before I before, so just I'm trying to get my thoughts out, sorry, but
for the longest time, I was so convinced of my faith that I would have died for it. If someone
held a gun to my head, I would have died for my faith. I was very convinced that Christianity was
true. I am now probably, I'm now not convinced that Christianity is true. I'm not convinced that
there is a God. I would say I'm less confident because I wouldn't die for my disbelief. I could
say what was the purpose of God, but do you ever worry that you're like one day you'll
enter into this new kind of perspective and you'd be like, oh, shit, how do I not see all this
stuff that I didn't see before? There is a God or those things are like, what I'm trying to get at
is like, is there a different way to view the world that you that you're ever worried that you
would just kind of stumble upon and go, oh, this like kind of demolishes these notions, this intellectual
perspective that I've been kind of pursuing. I hope that made sense.
I mean, kind of because it started off with a, you know, do you put any weight on these things?
And I do in the sense that it helps me understand how and why I used to believe and how other people
believe so that maybe I can hopefully talk to them. One of the most frustrating things on the
show is when I ask a question and nobody gets anywhere near the answer to that, but they try
to answer other things that they think I was talking about. But do I think there's some,
do I think it's likely that somewhere down the road, I'll get a completely different
perspective that, oh, how did I see this before and there is a God? No, I don't think that's
likely at all. Just like, if there were God, and certainly, you know, I can't, there may be some
God out there that doesn't match with anything we know or understand. But generally, starting
with the God of classical theism and going to the theistic gods beyond that, if one of those
gods exists, the world that we inhabit looks nothing like the world we would expect if that
God were here. So it's not just a matter of, oh, I've been missing this piece of information,
especially since I've spent 20 years now, give or take, asking people, hey, what's your reason
for believing? Can you give me a reason? Can you provide some evidence? Nobody has a valid and
sound argument. Nobody has evidence to warrant this. Nobody is able to adequately describe
in a rational way the foundations of their belief. And you're seeing more and more of this,
the God-botherers are, well, you know, God, you know, the Lord works in mysterious ways or,
like I watched on yesterday's Skeptok, John Gleeson and Josh Bollin were on there,
and they had a caller who called in who is not a fundamentalist, biblical, literalist Christian.
He has instead invented his own God. He has no way to test if this God is real, and yet he's,
oh, it's a lifelong search to try to discover who God is. And I'm like, shouldn't you find a way to
show that God is before you start talking about who God is? And why is it, you know, when they
were talking about the Bible sanctioning advocating for slavery, he's fully acknowledged, yes, the
Bible does this and it's wrong, but that's because that part isn't about what God thinks, that's about
what the ancient Israelites thought, and they got it wrong. Okay, cool. How do you tell the difference
when you read the Bible between what was written by the Israelites that they got wrong and what
was actually matches God's mind? He doesn't know. He doesn't have any way to do that. It's just a
constant search. And I'm like, you are basically saying if something in the Bible disagrees with
what I think God thinks, it's wrong, which means you are now putting yourself as the one who is
necessarily correct about God. That makes no sense to me because when the Bible says something that
is, you know, there are plenty of things that are prone to interpretation. I always have my
Bible study thing open. I'll grab a random verse just by clicking over on the other screen.
Boom, boom, boom, boom. So, Song of Solomon 6-4, Thou art beautiful, O my love, as tears
a comely as Jerusalem, terrible as an army with banners. You can take that, I guess it's more
fun when you click on Song of Solomon because you're more in the realm of poetry, and you can talk
about how there's a deeper meaning there, how, you know, armies with banners, maybe that means a
particularly vicious army, and rather than, you know, it can look as a beautiful thing to you on
this side of it, but maybe it's a terrible thing if it's the army marching toward you, whatever.
You can infuse that with a lot of different ideas. When the Bible says if a man lies with another
man as he lies with a woman, they've committed abomination and they're deserving of death by
stoning. There's not a way to spend that. When the Bible says you shall buy your slaves from the
people, from the heathen that surround you, that you can beat them as long as they don't die within
a couple days. You don't get to say that's metaphor. You don't get to say that's, you know, an analogy.
And so, if people are looking at this as the caller was and saying, you know, I'm a Christian
and I have my own version of Christianity based on what I think about God, and that's okay, and
that's all right with me. Josh, to his credit, was praising the guy for doing that and talking about
how we need more Christians like that. And I would say certainly I'm happier to have a world
populated with wishy-washy, I'm going to make my own shit up Christians than to have a world full
of Westboro Baptist Church. Yeah, the map pals and the West, yeah. But they're not more rational.
They are in fact less rational. Because Westboro Baptist Church is looking at the plain reading
of the text and saying, here's what it actually says and here's what it means. And when God says
this, he means it. This other person is, I'm going to reject whatever parts I want and accept
whatever parts I want. I have no method or mechanism. I have no criteria for determining
whether or not my beliefs are real. I have no criteria for determining, and he acknowledged this,
even if there is a God and I'm sitting here going, how can you say that you believe there's a God,
but you don't have any way of showing whether or not a God exists? I mean, it's bizarre. And I've had,
you know, even on Sunday show, there were other callers that did similar things where it's like
hey, God is both a real agent and a metaphor. No, that's not how it works. God isn't a square
and a circle. Those things are mutually exclusive. You may have an analogy of metaphors about God,
but God isn't both. Yeah. So those people who've done that, they are further departed from reason
while, with respect to their theology, while being viewed as more reasonable with respect
to their humanity, because they're definitely nicer people than Westboro Baptist Church. But
it's not like Westboro Baptist Church folks are the irrational ones. They're not. They're just
following what the book says. Dr. Josh was saying that he was he's actually quite concerned because
because a lot of his work has proven to a lot of people that slavery is in the Bible. And so
there are some people like, okay, so let's bring back slavery. And you're like, no, no, that's not
the message. That's not that's not what we're seeing. Like, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's
horrific. And this is actually something, something you brought up. But remind me, I was recently on
MythVision to tell my story through three Bible verses that anyone should go, look,
watch the video, subscribe to MythVision, but three Bible, Bible problems. And one of the
things for me is I had a friend I met in ministry college, he was closeted for 45 years. He was,
he was, he's always been gay. And when we tried to investigate, you know, homosexuality in the
Bible, I would come up to people and say, Hey, I'm reading the New Testament. And it says that
women shall not speak in church. And it says that will be, they'll have to cover their hair in prayer
and things like that. And they would say, that's just for a time. And I'd say, okay, and then give
me the apologetics around it. And I would go, but it says later on, like we go into, but it says
later on, like, you know, but the woman was to see first, that's why. And, you know, and it gives
the reasoning, which is still valid today. And then I say, so were the laws against homosexuals was,
was that just for, for a time? And they would say, no, that wasn't for a time. And I said,
why? And they said, because it's a moral issue. I'm like, wait, what? Like, so it was so confusing.
So like that, for me, that was a, that was one of the things that started to, to break with the
Bibles and heresy is like, we were picking and choosing in my denomination of Christianity,
what was true and what was kind of false. And we're just kind of picking and choosing. And
so I think I remember, I remember you saying, I quoted it actually down here. I think it was,
you said somewhere that, so there were 45,000 denominations of Christianity. And you said that
everyone has a different perspective sitting in the pews. And reminded me of, we had a staff member
when I was, I went, I went and said the name, we had a staff member when I was
employed at the church as a youth pastor. And they said that they wouldn't sing,
do you know the song, blessed be your name? I'm blessed be the name of the Lord. You know that
song? I don't, I can't sing. That one doesn't ring as much of a bell. It's possible that I'm
saying it, but it's not, it's not clicking. But they wouldn't sing the part that says,
he gives and takes away, he gives and takes away, blessed be the name of the Lord, he gives and
takes away. They wouldn't sing that part because they said, no, God doesn't take away. They were
like, they didn't like that idea of, but I'm like, but it's a, it's a scripture in Job. It's a,
it's a, they're quoting the Bible. Like it's not like, this isn't like, they're just making this up.
This is in the Bible, like that we read from the pulpit. Like, and it was just interesting that
even a staff member was like, I won't sing those lyrics because I don't believe that, that represents
the God I worship. And it was just like, okay, interesting. So what do you think about, and
just to, just to, again, I'm just playing devil's advocate, but just to push a little bit back on
the idea of this, this internal God, this, this feeling, this, this thing that, that we can't,
I guess, intellectualize as some people would say, frustratingly, what do you think of the idea of,
I think it's a Buddhist text where it says that it's like, you know, the idea of God is like a
bunch of blind people touching an elephant. And they touch the, you know, one person, one religion
is touching the trunk and they're describing, oh, it's hard and pointy, one, oh, not the trunk,
sorry, the whole, the tusks and one person's touching the trunk and saying it's long and floppy,
one person's touching the legs and they're all describing different parts of this God, or this
thing, or this, or some, some intellectual, some, some truth of the universe, but they're
all describing it differently. What, what do you say to someone who may have that kind of
perspective of God, the spirit realm, or, or something like that?
Well, you know, I've heard that many times, and you can, you can do things like that and say,
oh, well, this is just different people trying to describe the same thing. But until you demonstrate,
that the thing that they're describing is actually real, you haven't accomplished a thing.
And all you're doing is saying, hey, I have no way of actually addressing
this, I have no way of proving it to anybody, but I'm going to say that they're all right.
Every single one of them are right, just in different ways. That's not the way right works,
that's not the way truth works. And the God of Christianity, compared to the God of, or the
gods of Hinduism, or all these others, they are incompatible. And so if you took all the things
that were incompatible about those beliefs, like you've made a list of all the characteristics of
all those gods, when you remove the things that are incompatible, because those things must be
wrong, list all the religions where you think somebody's there trying to describe this elephant,
and they'll say, oh, it's like this, okay, if that is in conflict with what somebody else says,
then it's wrong. You know, or you have no way of telling which one of them is right.
So get rid of all the things that everybody says about the various gods, because those
things are now not true, or not verifiably true. What's left? And more than what's left is, how
can you demonstrate that what's left points to something true? If there was an elephant in the
room, and a bunch of blind people were touching it, they could figure out that it was an elephant,
and they could come to agreement on it. They could walk around and share their experiences
and say, touch here. It's a terrible analogy, because it makes it seem like blind people are
incapable of using reason or are particularly stupid. And in reality, what you have going on
there is, there's a whole bunch of people. I want to find the statement, because it's one of my
favorites. Let me Google. No worries. I think it's more like an explanation of trying and
failing to describe something unseen, that thing that made you go down the front when you're five
years old. And once again, I'm playing devil's advocate. I don't believe this, because I know
people are going to call me an idiot. But I'm just saying, I'm just trying really hard to
paint the best picture I can for someone who believes in spiritual realms and things like that.
So there's a quote from Oscar Wilde that says, religion is like a blind man looking in a black
room for a black cat that isn't there and finding it. I have never heard that. That is brilliant.
There's an extension of that, that is the black cat analogy. Philosophy is like being in a dark
room and looking for a black cat. Metaphysics is like being in a dark room and looking for a black
cat that isn't there. Theology is like being in a dark room and looking for a black cat that
isn't there and shouting, I found it. Science is like being in a dark room, looking for a black
cat while using a flashlight. And social science is like being in a dark room, suspecting from the
beginning that there's a black cat somewhere and emerging from the room with scratches on the forearm
as vindication. So, okay, just before we jump off this subject, why do you think so many cultures
around the world have independently believed that it was a black cat? Because human beings are
incredibly similar. We have similar brains. We face similar problems. We're going to come up
with similar solutions. If person A hadn't invented the wheel, somebody was going to invent the wheel.
But similarly, if somebody hadn't invented a God, somebody else was going to because we make the
same mistakes in thinking. We look around and when we get to the point where we don't have an
explanation, we give up. And our frustration with not knowing outweighs our dedication to the truth.
Instead of saying, we should keep looking until we have an answer, we say, you know what? I've
looked enough. This is the best answer I've got, so I'm going to go with it. Because in practical
situations, that's what is likely to happen. And it's probably the right thing to happen.
You've got to make a decision. You need to decide, hey, how am I going to invest my money? Which
concert am I going to go to? Which doctor am I going to listen to? At some point, you've got to
make a decision. Well, you don't ever have to make a decision about a God or a chupacabra or
fairies or pixies or any of those things. Because you should always be saying, until there's good
reason for me to believe it, I can't. It's not like a choice. It's not like I can say, oh,
I guess I'll just run with it. But the problems that humans face are similar. We face fears of
the unknown, fears of death and dying. We face fears of being alone. Those three things probably
are the cornerstone of the vast majority of religious ideas, that there's somebody who
does know, does care, and isn't going to leave you alone. And it's our propensity for seeing agency
and believing that we're unlikely to be wrong. You take that, and then you start teaching it
to the young. Because the young must rely on the wisdom and knowledge of the elders. If you
took all the babies born today out of the hospital and dumped them on an island, they'd be dead in
a week, maybe a month for some incredibly hardy ones. You take a bunch of two-year-olds, dump
them on an island. They're not going to survive either. We learn very quickly that we need to
rely on the wisdom of those who came before. And generally speaking, it's awesome. It works great.
My dad knows amazing shit and has taught me so much in my life. And it's just been incredibly
useful. But that also means that when my dad teaches me that Jesus is real and loves me and
died for my sins and that I must do this, this, and this in order to be saved, well, it's just so.
I mean, when I had questions that my dad and mom couldn't answer, we would go to the preacher.
Because that's the person who's the expert. Well, in the entire history of the world,
I have yet to find a single clergy person who is an actual demonstrable expert on a God. They are
certainly, in many cases, experts on the holy books and experts on what people say and think about
gods. But they can't demonstrate a scintilla of expertise on the actual subject that they pretend
to be experts about. And that is, what is God? What does God think? There's no way to demonstrate
that expertise. Would you, if you had a young child, would you teach them about Santa Claus?
If I had a kid, would I teach them about Santa Claus?
This is curiosity. Maybe. Yeah. This is something that I would, I'd talk over.
Hey, Arden, if we have kids, do you want to teach them about Santa Claus or not?
I don't fucking know either.
Oh, by the way, I love, Arden has become one of my favorite people. I love her to death.
Yeah, I love her too. She finished up, evidently, Dave's show is done. Yeah. And so she's hanging
out here until we're done here. The thing is, I can see both sides of it. There are people who are
like, oh, you know, it's a bit of good fun. I know, I know this. If we did do the Santa Claus thing,
if the two of us came to an agreement and said, yeah, we'll go ahead and do the Santa Claus thing,
I would be encouraging my child to test reality, ask questions. And the second my kid started,
I'm always going to be honest with them in the sense of if you ask me a question,
I'm going to tell you the truth. And so maybe my kid wouldn't believe in Santa Claus very long.
I think there's some value in teaching kids how to evaluate claims in reality. You know,
how do we know that dinosaurs are real? But angels probably aren't. Or why are we convinced
dinosaurs are real? And we are not convinced that angels are real, even if they are, those sorts of
things. And so getting them to ask us such questions, I think there's some value in that
skepticism. But I've heard from a number of people who feel betrayed, who when they found out that
the truth about Santa Claus, they felt betrayed, they felt lied to, they felt like they couldn't
trust their parents anymore. And while I understand how some people can be traumatized by that and
feel bad, I didn't feel that way. But you know what, it might be a very good thing to teach kids
that they can't simply, they can generally trust the people who love them and have been around
longer, but they can't always trust. And when it turns out mom and daddy might have not been telling
the truth or might not have been correct about Santa Claus, maybe the truth is that daddy and
daddy or mommy and mommy are wrong about Jesus as well. It's funny. I'm not sure either. But
I like the idea that we did, we have a newborn seven month old Atlas. And I wonder if when he
gets a baby, it was like, we talked to him like, we've heard of this idea of Santa Claus. We've
heard this idea of a Santa Claus. Like how can we like always give him the tools? How can we
determine if this is true or not? Like, so it's almost like giving him the, how can we trip him
up when he comes down the chimney? How can we, how, what, what, what, what can we do to, you know,
all the meat and cookies? How do you know Santa really ate those cookies? You know, I, I don't
know. I mean, maybe we're taking, taking all the fun out of it. But let me just quickly shout out,
guys, go subscribe to the line. You guys do an amazing job. You're on there all the time and,
and Arden's on there all the time. It is such a cool channel. Make sure you go subscribe over
there. Links are in the description, of course. And if you like content like this, this is a
deep drinks podcast. We have drinks with guests, a drink of their choice coming up next week. We
have the amazing Dr. Robin Wall should talk about early Christian literature, which would be super
interesting. And, you know, we've got a lot of cool stuff in here. Arden's been on here before.
So yeah, make sure you subscribe. Slap the subscribe button. It really does help the algorithm.
And of course, Matt has a Patreon linked below and I have a Patreon link below if you want to
support. Yes, give me money. Yes, 100%. I'm absolutely the worst at that. So I've been,
you know, I've been the president of organizations and I'm great at fundraising for other people.
Like Mandisa came on on Wednesday and they got like, you know, $2,100 and Darryl Ray comes on and we
raised $40,000 nearly for for recovering from religion.org. I forget to mention my Patreon.
I forget to to I'm on shows. Jimmy, Jimmy Snow runs the line and Arden is mainly my producer.
And both of them, I'm sure would love to slap me about the neck and shoulders on numerous
occasions for not doing what I can to get people to contribute and donate. Jimmy's great at it.
I just, I suck at it. But you know, and then give me money. I have health issues. I need,
I need health care. Now I live in America. You have to, you have to understand why you're rich.
Like mortgage your house, send us all your money. Like you have to turn into a meme.
Like, because I promise I'll use it for good. There's, it's funny. I won't just buy snakes with it,
although a good chunk of it did go. Yeah, it's true that, hey, they might relieve your stress.
So I actually run the numbers for what it was costing me to run, to run deep drinks.
And I had so many descriptions to AI art, AI writing, AI text. $467 a month. This was,
it was called, and I was like, holy crap. I was like, how did it get so expensive?
Like I'm, I'm in the red, like big time. So I cut that right down. But man, yeah, it was
all right. Give David money. No, give us both. I can't say all your money.
But steal your grandmother's purse and take all the money, put it in your bank account and send
it to us. Oh my God, you're going to get demonetized. Our, our call in studio that we used for the line
actually two weeks ago on Sunday, Arden and I were doing the Sunday show. And like at a quarter
to six, it just shut off. And it's because you prepay for the minutes and every minute that
somebody's on hold, it's using stuff. And we have like six lines open. And so I think it's
it's like five or $600 a month just to be able to take calls. And so that's the bare minimum
that we got to get before anybody makes a penny on anything. And it isn't, but it's worth it.
It's some, it's amazing how, how much it can cost. And at the same time, you can also run it,
you can't run it, but like the channels, you know, it's easy to jump on streaming,
ask for free and just produce something. But, but there's a lot of stuff goes in between scenes.
I've got a game for us, Matt. I know you're a gamer. So Shannon Q played this game and she came
on Thomas Westbrook play this game when they came on. And this is the first one we brought it back
in like over 50 episodes, more, more 50, 60 episodes. Okay, so it's the rapid fire checkmate
atheist Q&A. Okay, so I'm going to time your checkmate atheist Q&A. Yeah. Okay. So what I'm
going to do is I have 13 questions that are the most it's the checkmate atheist questions, right?
It's like, it's the cliches of the cliches, right? Something that you have had a million times.
You need to answer it as fast as possible. And you'll be timed. And when we get to the end,
it's got to make sense. You can't just like say no, or yes, or maybe you can't, but whatever.
And then I guess the audience will decide who's answered them best and who's got the best time.
And I think, you know, I won't give the times away yet, but I will, I want to see how you go.
So, okay, before we start, I have questions. Yeah. If I need a clarification on the question,
is that going to happen? Or we just take the question as written and do your best?
Just take the question as written. Yeah. Okay. You can ask a clarifying question,
but it goes out of your time. So you just need to, there's silly questions.
And how many are there? Silly answers if you want. 13.
13 questions. Yeah. And we're competing both for best answer and best time.
Yeah. I'm ready, Bridgekeeper. Ask me the questions. Okay, here we go.
And they can be short. Remember, they can be short and snappy. These are silly questions. Okay.
Ready, set, go. You say you don't believe in God. How do you explain sunsets?
Sunsets are what happens when the earth turns and the sun is on the other side of the earth.
Where do you get your morals from? I get my morals from an understanding of both empathy and the
causal relationship between my actions and the consequences that it has on all the rest of us
and wanting a better world. Why do you hate God? Well, I don't hate God in the sense that
I am mad at somebody who's real, but I despise the character of God in many situations because
he's an abominable being who is immoral and gross. Don't seashells on the top of mountains
prove Noah's Ark? No, seashells on the top of mountains don't prove Noah's Ark,
but they might lean that direction. What about the second law of thermodynamics?
What about the second law of thermodynamics? Do you even know what it is?
If we came from monkeys, why are there still monkeys? Because monkeys are fun.
What if you're wrong? If I'm wrong, then I'm wrong, but somebody's got to demonstrate to me
before I have good reason to think I'm wrong. You just have to have faith. You just don't.
Where are the transitional fossils? They are everywhere. Every single being is a
transitional form between what came before and what comes after. Evolution is just a theory.
And so is gravity and germ theory or disease and every other scientific theory, which doesn't
mean it's a hunch or something we pulled out of our ass. Relating to the Big Bang theory,
where did the exploding star come from? It wasn't a star that exploded in Big Bang cosmology. It was
a singularity that seemingly always existed or possibly came from a multiverse we don't know.
These are all real, by the way. Why have we found only one Lucy when we have found
more than one of everything else? I don't know. Maybe we haven't looked enough.
The Bible says that true Christians will be hated and persecuted by the world.
Doesn't your content prove this point? No. The notion that real Christians will be
hated and persecuted by the world could show that you're a true Christian or it could just
be that you're an asshole who has a persecution complex. Awesome. Two minutes and 10 seconds.
Well done. You won. You've beaten the score. So Shannon was two minutes, 38 seconds.
And Thomas was four minutes and 40 seconds. But we were drinking Long Island, essentially
Long Island iced teas when he was last. And that's why you drink iced tea instead of alcohol.
You're a little bit quicker. Okay. We're going to wrap up the show just quickly.
But I want to, well, when I say just quickly, I want, I got three big questions and I asked
these questions to the likes of, you know, we have Christians on the show. We have people from
all walks of life. And I think I asked these same ones when I first interviewed Michael Jones of
Inspiring Philosophy. And so I want to ask you and see and we can contrast the answers.
I have three questions. So first of all, I'll tell them all to you and then we can do it through
one at a time. By the way, I like Michael. We debated. I like Michael. We disagree on
other things and we butted heads on other things, but I still genuinely like him. So I'm glad to
hear you. Yeah. I'm same. I think how did I, I've had him on twice and every time he chooses
whiskey and then I have a Satanist who wants to come on, who wants to drink tea and scones.
So I've got the Satanist, 10 scones, got the Christian Apologist, straight whiskey. So it's
amazing dichotomy here. But I introduced him as, what is it? He's the least wrong.
As far as he's wrong, but he's the least wrong. He's definitely one of my favorite apologists.
Although I tell you this, when I find him to be wrong, he's really wrong.
It's, but you've kind of got to be to maintain that.
He has so many haters. I feel sorry for how many haters he has. And, uh, and, uh,
which is why I'm not one of them. Oh, that's good. I didn't mind. Okay. So these are the
questions. Um, what is the best argument for the existence of God? What is the worst argument for
the existence of God and what is the best argument against the existence of God?
Okay. The last one, the last one's the easier one. And that is, um, some version of the argument
from divine hiddenness or the argument from inconsistent revelation. Basically, God is the
all time world champion of hide and seek. And the fact that different people are, are apparently
getting different conflicting revelations from God. Uh, those are the best reasons to believe
that the proposition is actually false, not just that we can't conclude is true.
When it comes to the best arguments for God or against God, or, I'm sorry, for God and the
worst argument for God, I think that some version of a first cause argument is probably the strongest.
Um, and just for clarity, lest anybody think otherwise, when I say the strongest argument
for God, I'm still talking about the smartest village idiot. Um, the, amongst the worst arguments for
God, I gotta, I gotta cheat and, and put it in two categories because personal revelation
could be very convincing for the individual, but it's useless to everybody else. So telling me
about your personal revelation is the worst thing you can do to convince me of a God.
And it's, I mean, it's, I can't think of anything worse to try to convince me other than, uh, to
pretend that you know what's going on in my mind better than I do. Um, everybody who tries that
comes out really terrible. But in the, in the, if we exclude personal revelation, we talk about,
um, just making an argument for God, then presuppositional arguments are the worst
because if you're going to presuppose God, there's no reason for you to construct an argument.
If, if you're going to presuppose God, just fucking presuppose him and be done with it.
You don't need to say, God is necessary for a presupposition for us to have morals or
logic or anything. No, that's all bullshit. If you're going to presuppose God, just say,
hey, I just presuppose God and now I'll know that I don't need to spend any time talking to you.
Do you, do you think just, just to pivot quickly, do you think side 10 burden,
Kate, and those guys are like bad faith actors? Do you think that they're being deliberately
dishonest? No, um, I, there are very few people who I've debated who I think were deliberately
dishonest. Um, so Si's not allowed to debate anymore because he had some, he did something
sexual and it got him like kicked out of church. Um, this was several years ago.
Yeah, yeah, right. My, my issue with Si, sorry, um, is he's a presuppositionalist who doesn't
understand it. He's basically been cribbing Greg Bonson and other people who actually have a
better grip on the philosophy. And so Si basically worked up a script, which is why it's, it was easy
for me to pre-write my rebuttal to his script. Um, I've debated fantastic, fantastic, by the way.
Yeah. Thanks. I debated Ray Comfort and interacted with him many times. Um, there are people who are
like, Oh, raise a liar. Yes, raise a liar. Ray's been proven to be a liar, but that doesn't mean
he's lying about what he believes and why he's convinced of it. And you know, when you, I spent
20 years, more than 20 years as a fundamentalist Southern Baptist Christian, I believed many,
if not most of the same things that Ray and the others did. I don't think that this requires
any dishonesty on their part when they're explaining what they believe. But for example,
Aaron, Ron, I've had a back and forth disagreement on many occasions. He's one of my best friends.
We love each other dearly. We're both big snake people. Um, we talk about snakes all the time.
Matter of fact, probably more than we do about anything else. Aaron believes that Ray is lying
about evolution because Aaron has personally corrected him. And so have others on,
on this point. And so he's like, he's been corrected so many times, he must be lying.
And I'm like, no, you have attempted to correct him many different times. He's never acknowledged
the correction because he doesn't believe that you're correct. And so you, instead of including
that he's lying, the only conclusion I can come up with is that he's just wrong, that he does not
understand evolution. He does not believe it. He genuinely thinks it's a fairy tale for adults.
It wouldn't matter to him if every scientist on the planet stood up all at the same time and said,
Ray evolution is true and you're an idiot. He has flatly said that the existence of God
for him, you would be, it would be easier for you to convince him that his wife does not exist
than it would be that God does not exist. And while I take that as just blatant hyperbole,
it is certainly a testament to how convinced he seems to be. But at the end of the day,
I don't have to assume that any of them are dishonest. That said, there are people who I
am convinced are dishonest. I just haven't debated any of them that I'm aware of.
So this is what I was getting at before is I think that, and poorly I might add, I always
can think better than I can talk. But the one of the things is, I think Ray is probably,
like you say, probably believes what he believes, but he, like he says, he believes more than his
wife existing. So I think that's not an intellectual belief. I think that's something
else going on inside. And I think that for me, okay, when I, what I was getting at before with
the internal subjective kind of truth versus objective, tangible science, epistemology kind
of stuff is for me, I have to actually take off my God helmet. I came to the belief that
in order for me to investigate the claim about God, I couldn't, I couldn't presuppose or assume
that there was a God. And I was terrified to take off that faith helmet and look at the evidence.
So, but what I would do, like mentally, what I would do is I go, okay, I'm going to take
off this. I'm not going to assume anything. I'm not going to assume I'm going to try and remove
as much bias as possible, my religious beliefs, my upbringing, my nationality, all of that. I'm
just going to look at the evidence. And it was very scary to do that. But then afterwards I would,
I would see stuff that I wouldn't normally see. And then I would put the hat back on and go,
okay, I'm still a Christian. I'm still, you know, but that was interesting. I noticed cracks in that,
in my foundation that I didn't normally notice. And I think that's what's happening with Ray is
Ray's got this God helmet on. He's got this God, these God glasses, this God hat on that he just
refuses to take off. And I don't think that you can ever, I don't think anyone could ever convince
him because he's got that hat on. I think as soon as he took that hat off, and dare to peek under
the rug, he would see those cracks. And I just think that it's a, it's a, there's a famous quote,
what is it? Oh, was it a book breaking the spell? I think that is a perfect, the term breaking the
spell is like a perfect like, like Saul with it, like Paul with his, his shells fell from his eyes
or whatever. It's like, it's like that. It's like, you see something when you, when you first see it,
you're like, oh, I can't unsee it. And some people are just blocked off from that, I think.
Let's give us some super chats as we wrap up. Thank you, everyone who has super chat.
Thanks to MythVision. Shout out to Matt and Dave, five months of member. Thank you so much.
I'm Derek, absolutely one of my favorite people. We have Bond Servant. I would like to ask Matt,
this is Emmanuel from Texas. I used to, to call for how long am I banned from your show?
I have new argument. Okay, I don't know. I mean, if we ban you from the show,
it's not a suspension, it's a ban. Now, I will say that there are going to be exceptions. For
example, you might be able to send in an email and say, oh my gosh, I've realized that
what I was doing or what I was saying or whatever else is problematic. I've changed or I will change
or whatever. And, you know, then Jimmy can unban you or you can get a new phone number and call
in and pretend to be somebody else. And that would, and if it turns out, while I don't recommend
doing that, because I want people to be honest, if you were to get a different phone number,
call in with a different name and still end up banned, there's probably an issue with you.
Okay. Roger, Mello, thank you for the 20 super chat. How to overcome fear of death,
your opinion on stoicism. Thanks a bunch from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Well, hello.
So, on the fear of death, I'm going to presume that it's more about the fear of
being dead or what comes after death. Because the fear of dying, I don't know how to get over that.
I don't have any fear of being dead, but I have lots of fears about how it might happen.
You know, I would not want it to be painful and things like that. I also have big fears about
dementia and things that make me not me fundamentally changing my mind and all that.
So, if it's about a fear of hell, then, as I've said before, I wonder why people are afraid only
of the hells that they've been indoctrinated into and not hells that they weren't indoctrinated into.
And so, how much time do you spend worrying about a hell that you didn't use to believe in?
And which hell should I avoid? And which heaven should I seek? There's no clear path to
make a decision about that. And so, it puts you in a position of worrying about something
that you have no hope of resolving and coming to an understanding of.
And so, once I realized I hadn't spent any time worrying about some other religion's hell
or trying to get into some other religion's heaven, my concerns about a hell faded away.
And now, the only fear, death fears that are left for me are about the process of dying,
what it's going to do to me and how it's going to impact other people.
When I went in for open heart surgery, my brother and Arden were both there.
They were both more worried. I was not. You can ask them. I was laughing and joking. I
wasn't nervous. We had found that I'd had heart attacks. We'd found that there was probably my
heart. I was in the place where you go to get this fixed. They were going to knock me out,
slice my chest open, crack it open, harvest a vein from my leg, and fix me up. And I was either
going to regain consciousness and start recovering or I was just going to be ceased to exist. There's
nothing I could do about it. And for whatever reason, I may be a little weird. We've had discussions
before about whether or not I fall somewhere on the autism spectrum. Who knows? I've never been
tested, don't care. But what I do know is if I find that I'm worrying about something that I have no
good way to fix or address, I have the capacity to push it out of my mind because not because I'm
really good at rationalizing or avoiding issues. It's because there's enough other stuff in reality
for me to worry about. So I just push off the ones I can't do anything about. And I'm going to skip
your stoicism question because I genuinely don't know enough to really do a worthy assessment of
stoicism here. Next time Matt's on David Trinks, it'll be, why is, is Matt weird? And that'll be
the whole topic of discussion. That'd be a quick discussion. Matt's weird. Thank you, Nitty, for
sending out Super Chat. I love your work. Great to have you here. And after a staffer came back.
Awesome. So I have two, two personal questions for you. And guys, we're going to close the
Super Chats. But thank you so much for the Super Chats. Two questions. You're kind of the face,
become the face of, of online atheism for better or for worse. You, how does that, how does that,
how does that, what do you enjoy, I guess, and what do you not like about essentially your popularity?
Like, so some of the things I don't like, and anybody who comes in and hangs out my Twitch
stream learns really quickly what I don't like. I don't being, I don't like being asked what's your
favorite ex. I don't like being given unsolicited advice, be it medical advice or anything else.
If I, I don't want backseat gamers or anything. If I don't ask for an opinion, people offering
opinions to me. I just, just a matter of fact, tend to get a fairly rough response from me.
Because I find it incredibly rude to just march in and think, oh, I'm just going to give
Matt some advice, especially, especially health advice. You're not a doctor and you're not my
doctor. And if you were a doctor and you were giving medical advice, you'd be in violation of
your oath. So every time somebody comes in to give random, you know, unsolicited medical advice and
noise of crap on me, there are people who are, are incredibly curious about my life to where,
if we, if we post a picture of the snakes or the geckos, because we just had a couple geckos this
morning, or if I'm doing a video and I'm standing in front of a bookshelf, all of a sudden comments
will start pouring in about the books on the bookshelf and what it's like they're trying to do
a deep dive into what happened in Matt's brain and oh, there's that book. And does that mean you're
such a, look, I have a Bible, a Quran, I have a book by Rush Limbaugh, back from when I was a ditto
head, but also have books that I've always disagreed with that are there. If you think that you can
take a snapshot of my, a shelf in my library and psychoanalyze me, you're weirder than I am. And I
don't really need to think to do with you. Those are the things that are, that are weird about,
about the, I'm not famous, but with the notoriety of, of being a prominent figure in the movement.
There are a lot of great things too. I've been very fortunate to get to travel, to meet a bunch
of people, to engage in debates, to go to conventions, to hear a lot of people's stories on
their transition out, to work with fabulous organizations like recoveringfromreligion.org,
the psychotherapy project, Black non-believers, the Florida free thought community has been
phenomenal. It's just so much. And I was warned early on, when I, when I first started getting
involved with the atheist community of Austin, somebody, I was doing everything. I was in the
librarian, the president, the host of the show, is this, this is, and somebody's like, oh my God,
you're gonna, don't do too much, you're gonna burn out, you're gonna burn out. I'm very
good at managing me and my downtime. I'm very good at making sure that I take the time I need
to recover. And I saw somebody in chat earlier asking about my mental health and why I'm not
insane after having dealt with so many people. I try to remember every time somebody sees me,
it's the, it's somebody's first time being introduced to me and being introduced to atheism
and skepticism and humanism. I'm not always going to get it right, but I'm going to try to keep that
in my mind and do better. Am I occasionally a prick? Yeah. Am I arrogant? Yeah. Am I loud and
yelly and frustrated on occasion? Yeah, you bet. And I dare anybody to spend 18 years doing live
call-in shows with some of the dumbest potential arguments ever and not lose your shit on occasion.
But I've also frequently been patient and I, I, I'm genuinely care and I'm working to make the
world better. So I'm okay with it. That is, that, that is one criticism when I show like family and
friends who don't care about atheism or something. They'll be like, he's so angry. He comes across
with some anger. I'm like, no, no, I'm just showing you the best of, I'm just showing you the one
that's like all the angry atheists, you know, like to, to, to, to watch. But, but all these
questions I was reading it before, the rapid fire checkmen atheists, almost 90% of them came from
like episodes with like either you or, or Aaron Ra or something or just, just questions that have
been thrown to you throughout the year. So when you get asked for like the 50th time, you know,
that year, what if you're wrong? Like it's, I can't imagine. I, I'm surprised you don't have
other health issues. Like, I don't know how you survive it. You have to be honest.
Well, my blood pressure, you need to have like a, you need to have some, some like,
you need to take like medication as part of the, I'm going to take some medication as soon as we're
done with this podcast. Awesome. Well, actually, one quick question. Is it true that, that Jordan
Peterson won't debate you anymore? Well, it seems to be true. Basically, while we were since,
while we were finishing up on stage, he said he'd be happy to have another conversation with me.
And then the second the debate was over, he bolted off the stage went and locked himself in his
dressing room. And what I was told is that his manager publicist, whoever basically said you
should never do another event with that guy. And so I haven't heard anything from Jordan Peterson
since that night. You were incredibly polite and reasonable. It's, it's actually,
I think, I didn't, I don't think that did any favors for him to be honest,
not, especially when he said, you can't quit smoking without a, without a mystical experience.
I just, I mean, he might, I think he had to, like, I think he would have to
reword that or something. Like he, I don't know why he says something so silly, but
it was strange. And literally, I think before I even went to bed that night, I called Sam Eris
or, or I probably didn't call him. I probably emailed him either that night or the very next day
to let him know basically what happened. Here's where you can watch it, because I knew that Sam
was going to be doing an event with Jordan within a month of what I did. And I think their event
went really well. But I think probably the thing I'm proudest of, and I had really good help from
a friend, Ozam Andes Ramsey, who many of you know, a philosopher that I've had on podcasts and stuff
before, he was there at that event and asked one of the best questions during the Q&A. And it really
led to some clarity. He's exceptionally good at, at, at being able to ask the right question that
directs the conversation towards the linchpin that you need to pull. And Jordan Peterson,
Peterson is an exceptionally strange person. We had dinner before the event and he was,
he was only eating meat, because that's his daughter's kick. Yeah, the lion died or whatever.
And literally, when I say he was only eating meat, it was the, the food they ordered was,
I want a steak. I want it cooked on a grill that has been freshly cleaned. So there's nothing else.
I want it cooked with salt and nothing else, no vegetables, no nothing. Just bring me out this
slab of meat. And yeah, it was, it was weird. But you know, what are you gonna do? Oh, jays.
You don't want to do another 90 minutes on veganism? No, I'm kidding. Last question.
No, and, and by well, I'm going to take the comment that I was just about to make
and not make it because Alex O'Connor has already been raked over the coals and somewhat unfairly
and somewhat fairly for him abandoning veganism. Because when you built when you know, I am going
to say it, when you build a little pseudo cult based on your ideology on veganism, and get them to
repeatedly trash me, even when I was mostly vegan and supportive of it. I don't have a lot of empathy
when the vegan community decides to rip you to shreds when you give it up.
All right. Well, there's some drama for this stream. But yeah, but some,
yeah, but yeah, I mean, look, there's one stage where I was an outspoken,
well, I was vegan-ish and I'm still a vegetarian, but I'm vegan-ish and atheist. All I need to do
is join CrossFit and I'll be the most insufferable person to enter a room. If you're an ex-smoker,
you're already there. Yeah, yeah, I am an ex-smoker. There we go. There we go. Yeah,
most insufferable. I was trying very hard. I just, I just didn't want to crossfit.
That's a joke, everyone. Don't get angry at me. So last question. You've done countless shows.
You've talked to many people. What is the one piece of advice that you could offer someone who
may be deconstructing? The one thing that you feel like is a common thing that people go through.
What would you offer them? My deconstruction was long and perhaps a little different.
The number one piece of advice I give anybody on that path is to contact recoveringfromreligion.org
so that you don't have to do it all on your own. There are people there that can direct you with
resources. But at the end of the day, the mere fact that you are willing to do something that
most other people aren't, which is to reevaluate your beliefs in the light of evidence and trying
to get a better understanding of the truth, if you come through that, no matter what you believe
after that, you did a good job just by addressing it. Even if you end up with the wrong answer,
you were doing something that most other people don't. So cut yourself some slack. And if there's
a God that will not understand that you have been an intellectually honest individual evaluating
those claims and not come out with a ringing endorsement of that God, then that God is a
stupid, immoral monster that is undeserving of irrespect anyway.
Wow. You actually said something very similar at the start there to what I was told when I was
still a Christian at the Brisbane Science and Faith Talk at the Brisbane Science Festival
by AC Grayling when I was getting his book signed. I told him I was deconstructing and he said,
I take my hat off to you. It's hard to do that. A lot of people don't do that. And
that was one of the most impactful things that I think I had in my deconstruction.
Thank you so much, Matt, for coming on. This has been an amazing episode with broken record
numbers, I think, in this one. Make sure you subscribe, people. This is a fun show. I promise
we have a good time here. And with that said, make sure you go subscribe to the line as well.
Check out Matt's Patreon, check out my Patreon, and we'll see you guys later.
