If you make a decision, and you make a rule, Then you make us find jobs to be more than you'd want to be more.
Come on, people, let me hear you say.
You bastard, you're gonna pay!
That was unexpected. I did not know that was coming.
When did you cut out that and decide to do that?
I know. It's been a little while. I've used it a couple of times.
You know what? My wife thought it was so hilarious that she had me then print out a picture of one of her work colleagues and make a sign for her when she teaches classes online.
We don't normally pick on random people, but he threw some hands first at Dr. Francis Capullo.
I didn't understand. I'm screwing up this whole intro.
Is he like a Christian scholar? Like an apologist almost.
I thought he was like a secular scholar.
I thought when I first saw him too, the first video I ever saw was his review of Michael Jones' Exodus documentary.
He introduced himself as an Egyptologist.
I thought it was funny, in part because he was making fun of Michael Jones, which is always funny.
I hope Michael's watching.
I love Michael.
He gets so much hate from both sides. He's like, what do I do?
That's what I thought initially at first too, but then after a while he would say, when I would turn on stuff that he did, I'm like, what?
He is a died-in-the-wall Christian apologist.
He went to Ted's, which is Trinity Evangelical Divinity School, which is like a super conservative evangelical seminary.
Anyways, we're here for other stuff, right?
Yes, we are, but I want to hear about it.
I want to do show and tell first because the reason we started a couple minutes later is because, you know, Kip's just like, have you seen this?
And I was like, ah!
But before we do that, what are we drinking?
Oh, well, I have this.
Yeah, I've got one of those. I have a tall glass of water, but I have...
Oh, yours is much...
Much smaller.
Mine is from our last episode.
See, mine is not.
Mine was... this was my Christmas present from my oldest son.
He gets me the same thing every year, and that's fine.
He can just keep doing that.
So we're drinking Nica from the barrel, which is a very, very fine single malt.
I believe it's a blend, actually.
Yeah, it's a blend, but it's 51%, so it's pretty gutsy.
Yeah, that's probably going to knock me out before the...
It's a great...
And actually, we're doing this at like 1pm, and I got up really early.
I stayed up late last night, and so I actually can...
I don't have to work after this, so I can indulge a bit more than I normally would.
So before we jump into the case for Christ, and we put forward the case for critical scholarship,
let's do show and tell. What have you brought today?
Yeah, so I... because I just assumed you had seen it,
because I've been showing pictures of this all over the internet.
So you and I have a mutual friend by the name of Captain Dadpool.
I don't think he's here this evening.
He said he might pop in if he managed to stay awake,
but it's pretty late on the East Coast for a dad with piles of little kids in his house.
But our friend Captain Dadpool, way back in...
It was like October and November, said to me...
He said, I make knives.
Can I make one for you?
And I was like, yeah, that sounds cool.
And then he filmed some super cool video of him taking the knife out of the forge,
and it's blazing with fire, and he sticks it in the water.
It was super cool. He sent me videos of him making it.
I was like, wow, that's neat.
And then he asked me, shortly before Christmas,
he's like, what's your favorite manuscript from the Dead Sea Scrolls?
And so I told him there's this manuscript of the War Scroll called 4Q491.
He was like, OK, cool.
And then he shipped this knife to me,
and it took forever to get here to Canada.
But then in, I think it was like the second or third week of January,
I got a notice from the post office that it had arrived,
and a customs bill to go with it,
which I did not for a second mind-paying, as you will soon see.
And then I opened it up.
And first of all, I'll show you, because so Ricky,
Captain Dapool also made me this lovely custom stand for my knife.
And this is it.
How awesome is that?
That is so awesome.
I'm going to zoom in here on the handle.
I don't know if you can see it very clearly.
Is that script?
It's Hebrew script.
So it's actually script from the War Scroll from 4Q491
that he embedded into the handle there.
That is so cool.
He told me it's made out of this super high-grade steel.
He said you can beat the hell out of it.
You will barely ever have to sharpen it.
He said it will rust pretty quickly,
so I have to keep it clean and dry.
But I've been using this every day.
It's my new kitchen knife.
That is so awesome.
So there's one more part of the story
that I'm pretty sure Captain Dapool won't mind my sharing.
My friend, our mutual friend, Dr. Dan McClellan,
when he saw the knife that I was posting all over the place,
he was like, wow, that's amazing.
So he asked me a little bit more about it.
I told him where it came from.
So he actually reached out to Captain Dapool
and has now commissioned him to make a knife
for a good friend of his.
Dan gravitates in circles that I can only dream of.
So one of his very good friends is Joe McCale from Community.
So he's commissioned Captain Dapool to make a knife for him.
No way. That is so cool.
I know.
Because I'm never shy about taking credit.
I'll take some credit for that as well.
That is really cool.
And Captain Dapool is actually coming on this channel.
We're discussing this morning.
He's coming back on.
We're going to be discussing the Trinity.
It's going to be fun.
Yeah, because I never saw it as a problem.
And I see a lot of people arguing about it.
I'm like, why are people arguing about it?
And then I asked Captain Dapool and Ricky and he gave me the explainer
and I was like, oh, this is interesting.
So yeah, we're going to dive into it.
But just before we start, again, I've said this a couple of times now,
but I've got to mention this to you.
We talk a lot privately.
When we're having a bubble bath, we'll video each other.
But I was talking to a family member and they were talking to a member
of the first punk band, the first commercial punk band in Australia.
And the conversation somehow got onto the Dead Sea Scrolls.
I have no idea why, right?
Wow.
That's very punk.
The Scrolls of Punk Band.
Yeah, they are.
And I said, and they said, oh, turns out the Dead Sea Scrolls.
So this is the person telling me this, that the band member told them this,
that turns out the Dead Sea Scrolls are fake or they're fraudulent.
And I lost my mind.
I was like, I can't believe because I think what's happened is the person has seen
your work or the work you did in the documentary.
And then it blew my mind because I was like, that's the guy I was just telling you about.
No, that's Kip.
That's the guy on my podcast.
I was like, oh, and it was such a weird meeting of worlds that I was like, yeah, yeah, this
is what I've been talking about this whole time.
It's not the whole Dead Sea Scrolls.
It's like a fraction of a fraction of a fraction on the antiquities market.
But yeah, it opened the door to a really interesting conversation.
Oh, that's awesome.
That's awesome, man.
But that is something I find I now have to clarify quite a bit.
People, there are hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of authentic Dead Sea Scrolls.
The ones that were discovered between 1940s, 1947 and 53.
Those are all real.
It's just this select few, which is actually, I mean, it's like 80 fragments that came on
to, excuse me, antiquities markets close to 2002 and then thereafter.
Sorry, I'm looking at the chat and Shannon Q is disparaging my hockey taste.
I messaged Shannon Q the other day, and I hope this is okay to mention Shannon, but
I messaged her the other day and was like, I just got a Coke from McDonald's and I was
like, I don't want to just drink Coke by itself.
I was like, I'm going to put some rum in it.
And then as soon as I did that, I was like, that reminds me of Shannon Q and I sent her
voice messages.
I'm like, I don't know if that's an insult or a compliment, but yeah, the last time I
think I drunk run was with Shannon Q on deep drinks.
So it's been a while.
So Shannon Q and I don't agree about much.
I don't actually know.
We probably agree about a lot of things, but one thing that we are absolutely united
in, and I hope you, we are absolutely united in this.
And that is that the Edmonton Oilers fucking suck.
So, oh, I probably, it's probably too early to say that, isn't it?
No, it's not.
It's what everyone is saying.
No, now it's true.
That's all good.
It's all good.
So the Edmonton Oilers, everyone, they're, they fucking suck.
Well, I don't know what you guys are talking about over here in Kangaroo Land.
We don't even have an ice hockey.
I don't think we might.
It's very small because we don't have any ice hockey rinks, but let's jump into it.
So Kip, those who don't know who you are, you're a Hebrew Bible scholar, a philologist.
I hope I said that right.
Dead Sea Scrolls expert.
You did.
Cool.
And you're an expert in ancient scrabble practices.
You have a PhD in Religion and Theology from Manchester University and you're on the team.
University of Manchester.
University of Manchester, sorry.
And you had scrabbled the four trees in the Dead Sea Scrolls and Tiffany Market.
How are you saying that wrong the whole time?
Anyway.
Oh, I don't know.
I haven't noticed.
I probably didn't and was super polite, but now I'm done being polite.
Yeah, great.
I hope we're past that stage and we can be rude to each other.
So let's do a recap of the first two episodes.
So this isn't the first episode in a series.
We actually did two episodes way back seven months ago where we were like, let's open
like an old apologetics book and discover what is what gems inside.
A higher inside.
And we found a lot of coal.
But we've been going through it chapter by chapter.
And they've been really interesting because it opens the door for a bigger, a larger exploration
of the Ancient Near East, of Israel, of the time of Jesus, Palestine or what kind of stuff.
So let's do a recap of the first two episodes.
So the first episode was, can the biographies of Jesus be trusted?
Yes, that was the first episode.
And we discovered.
Absolutely.
They're like newspapers.
It's just, you know, it's the difference between like the New York Times and the New York Post.
It's just, no, no, of course not.
No, we know we've discovered that these are not proper biographies.
These are theological works.
And they were written, you know, long after the life of Jesus.
And they don't actually have any interest in, excuse me, they don't actually have any interest in history.
The Gospels are much more concerned about painting a picture of Jesus.
That's going to be useful and meaningful and provide depth to the readers.
You know, as something else, they're not even, they're not even independent either.
One of the things that we know for a fact is that Mark was the first Gospel written.
And then Luke and Matthew basically just rewrote Mark.
So in fact, a friend of mine, Camille Gregor, who does some work, he's a classicist and he does a little bit of work.
He dabbles in New Testament.
He's written a few pretty good papers.
Something that he's talking about quite a bit more recently is making the case that both Matthew and Luke are actually resensions of Mark.
They're basically, it's the same story, basically.
Just, you know, massaged, developed, abridged and expanded in various places and to various ends.
So, yeah, no, the Gospels cannot be trusted as biographies or as historical writings.
I'll say one other thing about that, though, that I do think that a careful eye can tease out a couple of features of potential historical realities from the Gospels.
But that's a lot more work and it's not the sort of thing that just a casual, you're going to be able to do just through a casual read.
And of course, we go right, we have much further into this on the other two episodes, but one thing we kind of discovered was, what discovered we talked about was the Gospels are anonymous.
We don't know who wrote them.
The names Matthew, Mark, Luke and John were attributed to them way later.
You said there was a 0% chance that the disciples Matthew, Mark, Luke and John were the ones who wrote them.
You said, absolutely not possible.
I think so.
They were written in Greek, Jesus spoke in Aramaic.
And something that Dr. Matthew Munger pointed out was that if I was to go over to Norway and also sit in a church with him and he was to translate for me, he wouldn't be translating, he'd be interpreting.
He'd be saying, well, they're saying basically this and he's whispering in my ear in English what they're saying in Norwegian.
And that would be the case of what would be happening, translating something that Jesus was saying in Aramaic into Greek and then we've taken that Greek translating into English.
And now earliest manuscripts are what, like a couple hundred years later, when you get full manuscripts out, we get small little fragments and stuff that we went over.
But I have a quick question about that.
Before you ask your question, let's get real here, David.
If you were in a church with Matt Munger, he wouldn't be translating or interpreting anything.
He'd be drinking this fine, smooth Japanese whiskey.
Does he like Japanese whiskey?
The very first time that he and I had this stuff was at a whiskey bar in Oslo together.
You think you told that story?
I think I might have mentioned that.
But my question was, do we know where the Gospels were written?
Not Judea.
So they were written not in Palestine or Judea.
Most likely Rome, but there's various ideas about where they come from.
But scholars are by and large agreed that they did not come from Palestine.
Interesting.
Cool.
And the second episode, we looked at, and I guess this will go through the criteria,
but we're looking at the criteria for testing the eyewitness evidence.
Do the biographies, I love how he uses the word biographies.
We've already determined they're not biographies, but do the biographies of Jesus stand up to scrutiny.
And just something I want to say that I forgot to mention before was just because they don't meet the criteria for a biography
and therefore can't be trusted as a biography.
It doesn't mean it didn't happen, but then you're moving into a realm of faith, not history.
You're having to rely on your personal internal emotions, not history.
Very true.
Which is fine, do whatever you want, but here we're talking about the scholarship and the history.
So episode two, testing the eyewitness evidence.
So maybe setting this up a little bit, like what Lee Strobel's book purports to be.
Lee Strobel was a journalist with the Chicago Tribune who became a Christian and a pastor of a large church in the Chicago area.
And he wrote this book where he basically takes his journalistic instincts and expertise and attempts to test the gospel story of Jesus in an effort to see if he can determine whether or not it's authentic or true.
So in chapter two, he lays out these eight criteria that are used to determine historicity and facticity in the gospels.
And we spent like a whole, yeah, we spent like a whole episode basically going over what these are.
So I'm not going to rehash the whole thing.
I'll just mention them here.
The first is the intention test where he asks the question if they were crafted narratives or if they were just historical reports of what had actually happened.
Of course, they're crafted narratives.
The second was the ability tests.
And the ability test was were the people who purport to be eyewitnesses of Jesus, were they capable of even writing the gospels and of course, no, they were not.
There were some Aramaic speaking low level peasants or they were of a lower social standing which wouldn't have afforded them opportunity to learn how to read and write.
Certainly not read and write Greek.
Maybe some Aramaic or some Hebrew, but almost certainly not Greek and definitely not both.
The third was the character test.
You know, were these people of great integrity who wrote these gospels?
I mean, how would we even know?
It's such a stupid question.
The consistency test.
Is there too much consistency or too much inconsistency between these four gospels which eliminate the possibility that they're ahistorical?
And of course, you know, struggle comes out on the, you know, the porridge isn't too hot.
It's not too cold.
It's just right.
There's just enough consistency, but also an expected amount of inconsistency that you would see in any sort of historical reportage, right?
So, fifth is the bias test.
So, the bias test basically says that as the question of whether the authors of the gospels were invested, whether they had an agenda or something, you know, at work, which was leading their conclusions.
They absolutely did.
The sixth is the cover up test.
What is the cover up test?
Oh, this is, so this is basically, the cover up test is basically the criterion of embarrassment, which states that there's, you know, there's embarrassing details in the gospel that if these were invented, nobody would invent, you know, would invent these embarrassing or unexpected situations.
So obviously this, this must have happened.
Seven is the corroboration test.
And I have no idea what this is because in my notes, all I have is.
That's right.
That's right.
I don't even know what that is, people.
We went over it in the last episode.
It's not good though.
I don't think it's good.
And then finally, the adverse witness test.
Excuse me.
So, the adverse witness test is, is basically like, what's the, what's the word I'm looking for, like opponent testimony.
There were, are there, are there counter narratives to the gospel?
Are there counter, counter points from opponents of the church that, that preserves some, some sense of the historical Jesus?
And of course, they're, they're drawing all of this stuff out of these reported, you know, the, the, the reported opposition of, you know, the, the opponents to the church.
And these are, I mean, this is just when you, when you look at, you know, like, like when you look at the ways in which the gospels portray the, the, the Pharisees, or when they, they talk about what took place in the Sanhedrin.
It's patently obvious to somebody who has some historical grounding that, yeah, this was all stuff written to denigrate these, these Jewish institutions.
So that's the, yeah, that, that's the, the eight tests that, that Strabo goes through with, with Craig Blomberg on, in order to determine the historic.
They all, like absolutely fail in my opinion.
What's not even like, I'm squinting.
It's like, they all, I'm not even trying to be biased here.
It's like, it's like, they really just don't, they don't do what they say.
What he says they do.
There's, there's no.
Yeah.
So we're now off to chapter three, which I thought we were way further ahead.
I know.
I can't believe we only did two chapters.
And, and we probably should have been farther, but then the next time I was on your show, we broke the internet and it.
Yeah, that's the, we don't talk about that.
No, we won't, we won't talk about that episode.
So anyways, after a long time.
Yeah.
We're finally back.
We're finally talking about chapter three in the case for Christ, which is called the documentary evidence.
Can you guess what that's all about, David?
Evidence from a documentary, I guess.
Did you release a documentary alongside of it?
I'm not sure why it's called documentary evidence, actually.
Well, because it's evidence drawn from documents.
So not, not, not, you know, documentaries, but documents.
So these are basically the chapter is set up to review the manuscript evidence for the New Testament.
Let me just actually, maybe if I just pull up and read a little bit from the chapter here to set it up.
So people know what's going on.
Obtaining secret corporate memos is one thing, verifying their authenticity is another.
Before a journalist can publish their contents or a prosecutor can admit documents as evidence in a trial.
Steps must be taken to make sure they're genuine.
So this is basically what he follows through with, with the stories or with the Gospels.
He says there's, there's significant questions and they're equally relevant in examining the New Testament.
When I hold the Bible in my hands and I love this part because this is, this is just ripped right out of the, the great apologist,
Josh McDowell, I say great in this, in the sense of, you know, he's been around for a long time and everybody knows who he is.
But this is something that, that Josh McDowell, this was part of his whole, his whole presentation is he would, he would say,
you know, I had certainty that I could hold a Bible in my hands and trust that it was the same Bible that was, you know, written by Jesus.
Yeah, that Jesus.
I mean, I mean, Lee Strobel is basically just riffing off of Josh McDowell here.
He says, when I hold a Bible in my hands, essentially I'm holding copies of ancient historical records.
The original manuscripts of the biographies of Jesus, Matthew, Mark, Luke and John and all the other books of the Old and New Testaments have long ago crumbled into dust.
So how can I be sure that these modern day versions, the end products of countless copying throughout the ages bear any resemblance to what the authors originally wrote?
In addition, how can I tell if these four biographies are telling the whole story?
What if there are other biographies, Jesus, that have been censored because the early church didn't like the image that of Jesus they portrayed?
How could I have confidence that church politics haven't squelched biographies of Jesus that were every bit as accurate as the four that we finally included in the New Testament?
So Lee Strobel wrote this book way back in the, like the 19, was it the early 1990s, I think?
I think it was 1998.
So, but Lee Strobel obviously wrote this book long before Bart Ehrman wrote his two books, his scholarly work, Forgery and Counter Forgery, and then his popular work based on Forgery and Counter Forgery,
the extremely popular bestseller forged, where he basically demonstrates from the manuscript evidence all these things.
Yes, the four biographies aren't telling the whole stories.
Yes, there were other biographies of Jesus, and yes, there is tons of censorship going on throughout the manuscripts of the New Testament.
So maybe if Ehrman had published this book before 1998, then Lee would have just skipped this chapter, but somehow I doubt it.
Yeah, because it's my understanding that we don't have any originals at all.
The best we have is copies of copies of copies, and we can see very clearly where some have been forged, right?
Absolutely. Well, yeah, I don't know about, let's not use the word forged in this sense, because that's a much more complicated question.
But we can certainly see where we have tons of manuscript evidence, which shows that the scribes who copied these manuscripts were also invested in their contents and would make changes to them.
We also see from the manuscripts themselves evidence of their transition, their transmission from earlier source documents into something that now more closely resembles the New Testament.
So, yeah. Now, the way Strobel sets up each of the chapters in his books, each chapter is the contents of an interview that he conducted with an expert in various fields.
And I have to say right at the outset that one of the things that does pain me about this book is that the expert that he interviewed for chapter three is the late great Bruce M. Metzger, who was arguably the greatest, if not one of the greatest, if not the greatest textual critics of the New Testament.
He was a brilliant, brilliant scholar. And I think he would be troubled by some of the ways that he is presented in this chapter on the manuscripts.
So, where do we want to go with this?
Well, what do you remember? Do you have notes on what was talked about in that chapter?
I do. I have a couple of things that I've highlighted. First of all, so Strobel starts with this claim with this point that the New Testament manuscripts are copies of copies of copies.
I'll just read a little bit of this here. He says, I'll be honest with you. I said to Metzger, when I first found out that there was no surviving originals of the New Testament, I was really skeptical.
I thought, if all we have are copies of copies of copies, how can I have any confidence in the New Testament we have today that the New Testament we have today bears any resemblance whatsoever to what was originally written?
How do you respond to this? So, Metzger goes through and basically talks about how we evaluate manuscripts and weigh the evidence from them.
While we have many copies of copies of copies of the New Testament documents, scholars, textual critics are also able to carefully analyze their contents and group them to within families to show that certain manuscripts belong together.
And through this procedure are pretty confident about being able to reconstruct at least the earliest stages of a number of the New Testament documents that we have for some of the earliest stages of those.
At least as they appeared in the second century. So, at one point here, I'll just read something that Metzger says, and I think this is important.
He says, we have copies of the New Testament commencing within a couple generations from the writing of the originals, whereas in the case of other ancient texts, maybe five, eight or 10 centuries elapsed between the original and the earliest surviving copies.
Now, I know for a fact what Metzger is getting at is basically, if you consider all the individual documents of everything in the New Testament as representative of the New Testament together, then we have this enormous amount of material, thousands and thousands of manuscripts.
And the earliest of them are within generations, decades of when they purport to have been written, or when scholars think that they were written. And this gap is much tighter than it is for other ancient works such as Homer's Iliad and the Odyssey and the writings of Plato.
And things like that. Our manuscript copies of those tend to be much later. Now, I do believe that since this book was published, that gap has shrunk quite a bit with more recent manuscript discoveries.
But I do have a note here, and I think it's important to point something out. In my note here, I said, I don't know that there is much controversy regarding the stability of the text that we have, which date to the mid-second century at best.
The issue is with how much or how little we actually know of the Gospels prior to the third century. So how much do we know about the picture of the Gospels prior to the year 200, basically?
The massive number of differences within individual manuscripts can be traced back to a more or less stable set of copies. But problematically, these also illustrate precisely how substantial changes could occur in generations prior.
So basically, what I'm getting at here is that, yes, from the manuscripts we have, we can show that there is a textual stability that the text of the New Testament by the point of our earliest dated copies has already started to settle in to the forms that we have them now.
Well, not entirely, but they certainly started to settle in more clearly to the forms that we have them now. But problematically, the earliest copies that we have all date back to the second century.
So in the next section, they talk about the number of New Testament manuscripts that we have. Lee Strobel asks, he says, with regard to the first century historian Josephus, we have nine, sorry, where is this here?
Yeah, he says, when you talk about a great multiplicity of manuscripts, how does that contrast with other ancient books that are routinely accepted by scholars as being reliable? So he goes through the numbers, right? And you know, there's not a lot.
And Strobel says these numbers were surprising. There is but the thinnest thread of manuscripts connecting these ancient works to the modern world. By comparison, I asked, how many New Testament Greek manuscripts are in existence today?
Metzger's eyes got wide. More than 5,000 have been catalogued. His voice with enthusiasm. His voice going up an octave. That was a mountain of manuscripts compared to the ant hills of Tacitus and Josephus.
So now this is something I want to, yeah, no, go ahead and then I want to get it.
Let's say, can I ask you a question?
Yeah.
Did Josephus ever claim to walk on water or raise the dead in Jerusalem from the graves or that die and rise again?
So now, Josephus certainly made some claims that we would accept as a historical. More famously, in one section, like Josephus, the antiquities of the Jews, which is Josephus' magnum opus is really, it's an exhaustive history of the Jewish people starting in Adam.
Right?
Yeah, the first Jewish person.
Yeah, it's the first Jewish person and tracing this all the way forward to the Roman invasion of Jerusalem and the destruction of the Jerusalem temple.
Now, in the final book, in book 20, there's a section towards the end where Josephus rehearses a long catalog of events that took place leading up to the destruction of the temple, which were signposts that the temple was doomed to destruction.
He's, you know, a religious Jew. He's writing as a religious Jewish person. He believes that the temple was destroyed by, you know, in part by divine mandate and, you know, he's providing evidence for this.
Now, some of the stuff, like, you know, he's like, you know, there was a cow that gave birth to a rabbit and the rabbit gave birth to a pig and, of course, none of this ever happened.
Right?
So let's be clear here. Josephus makes some absolutely outlandish claims that no historian accepts.
Well, there we go.
There we go.
I didn't know that.
Yeah, so I'll just mention one more thing. One of the things that Josephus also reports is that in the third century, when Alexander the Great was going on his campaign,
sweeping across the Mediterranean, when he arrived in Jerusalem, Josephus tells us that the priests who were in charge of the city basically opened the gates and let Alexander and his army in.
And then they went and grabbed, they happened to have a scroll of the book of Daniel standing by and they pulled it out and opened it up for Alexander and showed him, you know, all the prophecies that Daniel made of Alexander the Great.
So that's before Daniel was written, which is interesting.
That never happened. It did not happen. And yes, critical scholars are in agreement that all those prophecies of Alexander were written after the fact long after Alexander was dead.
So my point is, yeah, there's fantastical stuff that you'll find in Josephus.
It's not quite to the level or the frequency. I don't think that you will discover in the Gospels. However, it's a good, it's a good plan, Jason Rawlins.
So it may be not with the frequency, but it's definitely in there. Now importantly, historians and scholars know how to handle this stuff.
We don't just look and go, Josephus reported it, it must have happened.
Because Josephus gets a lot of stuff. No, go ahead.
Sorry, I keep trying to apologize. I was assuming you were going to say, oh, Josephus doesn't record anything bizarre.
But what's interesting is you say that, but I guess the point is no, well, I won't say no, but the majority of people who look at the text historians don't go, aha, therefore it happened.
Exactly. And there's a very good reason why there are so many copies of New Testament documents and so few copies of most everything else.
And the reason for that is because the Roman church was basically in charge of Empire-wide manuscript production during the late stages of the Roman Empire and then into the Middle Ages, sorry, into the medieval period.
The reason there's so many copies is because scribes were occupied with copying the New Testament to the detriment of all these other ancient works.
So in many ways, it's a bit of a tragedy that we have so many copies of the New Testament and so few copies of everything else.
Yeah, that's actually a good point. I have a question. So the disciples were told to go and preach the gospel to all the lands.
Keep in mind, the disciples were told this. So Jesus is in a 12, right?
The old people have grown very far, but do we have any gospels written in Mandarin or ancient Chinese?
Do we have any gospels written from different languages that are early, like before, like 500?
That's all in that tiny little dot. If you pull up a world map, it's like a dot of where all of it comes from.
So I wanted to show you some stuff here.
Protaining especially to this question of manuscripts. Manuscripts is kind of my thing.
So if you can give me some screen share abilities here, do I have it?
All right. You love the screen share?
I just sit back and I just get a whiskey and I just absorb.
All right. I'm going to introduce you, David, to the center for the study of New Testament manuscripts.
There it is. So this is a project to basically digitize all manuscripts of the New Testament.
And the really amazing thing about the... I better not do that again.
Once I was on a stream and I went to hit stop screen share and I actually hit leave studio by mistake.
Have we been over this website? Has like chose all the manuscripts?
Yeah. But I think it's... I definitely think it's worthwhile going over this again.
So I'm going to show you this. You can go over and look for yourself.
I'm just trying to find it right.
Okay. Good.
Oh, here we are. This one here and I'll show you this.
You've stopped. Yeah. Okay. Cool.
There we go. Okay.
So here you see a couple of things you can search by keyword or verse.
You can just punch in a verse from the New Testament and I'll pull up all the manuscripts that they have digitized with those passages.
But I want you to pay close attention here as I scroll down to some of these limiters, some of these filters that they have here.
So as you all notice, you can just choose to look at only papyrus manuscript or you can look at magiskool or miniskool.
So these are later manuscripts written on vellum.
You can look at lectionaries, which are special manuscripts used for worship and for services.
And you can restrict them to various contents.
You can just do searches for the bug of acts or the Catholic epistles or the Pauline epistles.
Now, notice here, David, I think the really important one, you'll notice you can search by selected dates.
Now, when I hit century, notice it says start, select one.
What's the first option there?
It's not showing up, but...
Oh, probably because it's not showing the...
I probably have to share the entire screen.
Maybe let me do that.
I can see it's just not the... when you click on it, nothing happened.
Yeah, hold on a sec.
Let me try it this way.
See if you can see it this way.
The entire screen.
And then...
Okay, so if I go here, can you see it now?
Yeah, we started the second century.
The second century.
Now, why is that significant?
Well, because Jesus lived a long time before that.
So Jesus and the apostles and most of the texts from the New Testament purport to have come from the first century.
And I have no option to click to look at first century manuscripts because there are none.
All right, now, if I do a search just for all second century manuscripts, this is what I get.
Okay, I've got P32, P46, P46 again, P52, P66, P66 again, P77, P90, P98, P103, P104.
And that's it.
I think that's grown since we did this last.
Do you think so?
I think it actually has, yeah.
Maybe they've split up somewhere.
You know what one of the issues there is?
One of these, Rolves 963, is actually a Septigent manuscript.
So what we didn't do, that's probably the other thing we didn't do was hit that button.
Gospels.
There we go.
Here we go.
P52, P66, P77, P90, P103, P104.
That's it.
That's all of them.
Now, I'll show you this one because it's, is this the one?
No, it's the other one.
Just a sec here.
There's two P66s.
There it is.
Now, this is a remarkable manuscript.
But this is really, really unusual.
We actually have a copy of a mostly intact codex, a little booklet dating to the end of the 2nd century.
So this dates to about 200.
And this is the Gospel of John.
But easily, one of the most remarkable manuscripts that we have of the New Testament.
But I think the important point here to take away is that in terms of our manuscript evidence, it needs to be weighed.
Yes, Straubel can make the claim that, yeah, we have all these manuscripts, 5000, which date back to within, you know, generations of the life of Jesus.
Sure, but not all of them, right?
Just this tiny, tiny little handful.
And yes, we have one of them that looks like this and it's, you know, just the Gospel of John.
Oh, and it dates to 200.
But most of them, sorry, most of them look like this, right?
Most of them look like this.
Just a couple of fragments.
Written on both sides, probably from a codex or a book of some kind.
But we have extremely limited information on how big this book is, what its contents were.
We have no idea what's going on before or after what's happening on this fragment.
Now, I will show you one more thing and then we'll move on because this is one that gets brought up in the chapter as well.
So this is easily the most famous New Testament manuscript fragment.
It's possibly the most famous biblical manuscript fragment.
This is known as P52.
I actually have, I probably showed this before.
Did I show you my P52 puzzle?
It's pretty cool.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I'm sick of you not showing me all your show and tell stuff.
Let me get your puzzle because that's...
Because I used to go, the P52 is otherwise known as the John Rylans Papyrus.
And it's called that because it is at the Rylans library at the University of Manchester, which is where I went to school.
And in the gift shop, they sell...
I recognize it but it's been so long.
It's so cool though because let me open it up and show you.
Oh, really? I thought, oh no.
I thought for sure, oh, never mind.
I don't want to show you my jigsaw puzzle.
So, because I thought for sure, I could have sworn that it actually had the recto and the verso.
But it's not a two-sided puzzle.
Oh, now I'm disappointed.
Now I feel like I've misled everybody.
I should go.
I'm sorry.
I'll leave everyone.
It's still so cool.
Hey, you bring the knife.
I need to have some cool show and tell stuff.
I mean, the puzzle's cool too, right?
Even though it's not, it is still pretty cool.
What a niche market for that puzzle.
You're probably one of 12 in the world who has that, including like...
No, I'm pretty sure most of my friends...
Yeah, that's so good.
In the field have it.
So, let me just...
Now, they talk a little bit about this particular manuscript in the chapter.
So, just...
Yeah, he's got a section here called The Scrap That Changed History.
Of the entire New Testament, I said, what is the earliest portion that we possess today?
Metzger didn't have to ponder the answer.
That would be a fragment of the Gospel of John containing material from chapter 18.
It has five verses, three on one side, two on the other,
and it measures about two and a half by three and a half inches, he said.
Then they talk about its discovery.
And then he asks about how early it's dated.
And Metzger says it originated between AD 100 to 150.
Lots of other prominent paleographers.
A paleographer is somebody who studies script types in ancient manuscripts as a means to date them.
He says other prominent paleographers like Sir Frederick Kenyon, Sir Harold Bell, Adolf Deisman,
W.H.P. Hatch, Ulrich Wilkin, and others have agreed with his assessment.
Deisman was convinced that it goes back at least to the reign of Emperor Hadrian,
which is AD 117 to 138, or even Emperor Trajan, which is AD 98 to 117.
And then he goes on to say that these conclusions were able to influence generations of scholars
who scoffed at this Gospel's reliability.
Now, importantly, one of the things that we know right off the bat here,
when it comes to this little fragment, and I'll show it again here.
Let me just bring it up.
I mean, how can you suggest to me, David,
maybe one of the problems of making an argument of Gospel reliability from this single piece of papyrus
that has a total of one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, 14 lines on Tuesday.
Well, as a paleographer and textual critic myself, I would say...
That's why I'm asking.
I would say that it's such a small piece that we're kind of making a very large assumption from a small piece of evidence.
This would be like finding one wooden plank and saying, this was the Ark of Noah.
The Titanic, or the Ark of Noah, yeah.
Exactly, right?
So, no, exactly.
Now, so this fragment comes from John chapter 18, which is the story.
It's Jesus appearing before Pilate.
I mean, we don't even know, like I showed you P66 earlier.
We don't even know.
Was P52 a copy of the entire Gospel of John, even?
Or was it just a copy of, like, the passion story?
We don't know.
Was this story of Jesus' trial part of another text, even, and not the Gospel of John?
And that just brings to mind, maybe I'll hold off on this.
No, I'll talk about this now.
So, something that has happened in the intervening time since you and I streamed last about this topic is the publication of a new manuscript fragment.
A pretty exciting one.
I think it's P5775.
Let me just look this up.
How can you trust it if it wasn't King James Bible?
That's all I have to say.
Where was I?
Sorry, I mean, how have you not told us?
How has no one told me about this fragment?
What do you mean?
So, I don't know, man.
But let's talk about this.
I'd love to pull up some pictures for you.
Maybe it's P5575.
So, very recently, it was just shortly before Christmas, this fragment from what's called the Oxyrincus collection at the Bodmer.
Yes, thank you, the governor.
P stands for Papyrus.
So, there's this huge collection over at the University of Oxford of Papyrus fragments that were dug out of basically the garbage heap at this Egyptian site called Oxyrincus.
It's loaded with material, not just New Testament documents, but all sorts of different types of texts, different Greek classical texts, documents themselves like letters and receipts.
So, Michael Holmes, and somebody else, I don't remember the other guy's name, but I used to work for Michael Holmes.
He is affiliated with the Museum of the Bible.
But Michael Holmes and a colleague of his published this small fragment, which contains a handful of lines of Greek text on it.
And they have dated it to basically the second half of the first century.
So, between 150 to 200 CE, maybe into the second century.
But it's clearly among this group, right, of these very, very old manuscripts of the New Testament from the second century.
What's really exciting about this fragment is it doesn't preserve a text from the New Testament that we recognize.
So, it is a version of a parable that Jesus taught.
It bears some similarities to another text that we know called the Gospel of Thomas.
But it's not quite the Gospel of Thomas either.
It looks like it's something in between Matthew, Luke, Gospel of Thomas, and it dates all the way back to the second century.
It could potentially be the oldest New Testament manuscript.
One of the oldest New Testament manuscripts, if not the oldest New Testament manuscripts, and it's not even the New Testament.
Jason Rowland mentioned that someone who told me this, I think it was Rowland Faith Walsh.
I do remember that, but I thought that was way later.
I thought that was in like 400s. You're saying it's early. You're saying it's 150 to 200.
This particular one, which was just published, is very, very early, yes.
Right.
Do we have any photos of that one?
We do. Let me see if I can. Let me try another search here. Let's try p5575.
I always get the numbers mixed up, especially because, oh, here we go.
Yes. So, the sayings of Jesus Papyrus, pOxy5575. Let's just look at some images here.
Where was this filmed?
So, in Oxyrincus, this massive garbage dump.
Wow. Let me just pull up this picture here. This is just an...
Oh, it's Wesley Huff's Instagram. I don't like it.
No, I shouldn't say that. I should be nice.
Let me see. Let's see if I can pull this one up.
This is on Twitter. This will work better. Here we go.
So, yeah, let me share my screen.
While you're doing that, I actually asked before what everyone was drinking,
and we have a smorgasbord of drinks.
Oh, everybody's not drinking Japanese whiskey.
They're getting high.
We also have sayings of Jesus Papyrus, water, jason tea, musky mule,
from cats, water, coffee. A lot of people aren't drinking with us.
So, a lot of people are drinking water, kombucha. That's cool.
And someone, I saw it before, is drinking water whilst on a treadmill,
which makes me feel horrible.
It makes me feel like...
Let's do this stream on the treadmill.
On a stairmaster?
On a stairmaster.
So, you see that, right?
And here, this is actually a very nice, concise description,
a newly published Papyrus Fragment containing parts of 17-19 lines
of sayings of Jesus that reflect features also known from the Gospels,
Matthew, Luke and Thomas.
So, this happened right around, just right before,
or right after, I'm sorry.
We did our last streams on this.
This is an exciting manuscript for a couple of reasons.
On the one hand, like I said, it's one of our oldest New Testament manuscripts.
It's not even a New Testament manuscript, really.
One of our earliest pieces of early Christian writing,
and it's this weird...
It's like this interesting amalgamation of gospel traditions
that doesn't belong to any one gospel.
So, that's pretty cool.
The other thing that I think is very interesting about this particular manuscript
is that it very...
The closest text that it does compare to is the Gospel of Thomas.
Scholars generally agree that the Gospel of Thomas
that we, as we know it, is a second century text,
late second century.
I think it's conventionally dated usually to the 180s.
But scholars have also argued, I think, pretty persuasively
that there are pockets of traditions and sayings within the Gospel of Thomas
that actually date all the way back to maybe even the first century.
Some of this stuff was actually contemporary with the four canonical gospels.
Now here, we have a manuscript that is just as old, older,
than manuscript copies that we have of several of the other gospels.
It's older than any copy that we have of the Gospel of Matthew or Luke,
and certainly Mark, right?
And it looks like it's kind of got some Thomas-y sort of stuff in it.
That's pretty cool, I think.
So it helps to flesh out this picture, right?
And I think is really illustrative of part of the problem that I've been
really trying to get at here when it comes to evaluating the manuscripts, right?
It's the second century.
Everything that we know about the New Testament from a manuscript perspective
gets you back to the second century.
And now we have to include this because, I mean, because why not?
Like you have to, it's part of the data.
Yeah, that's true.
I have a couple of questions.
The first question is, well, first there's a great comment from Simone.
Thomas Truth, this must be going wild.
The first comment, the first question is, let me say them both
because I'm going to forget because I'm a bit drunk,
but what is the Gospel of Thomas about?
Like what can you explain that?
And secondly, is what about the argument that says that,
look, the gospels and a bunch of this stuff wasn't written down for ages.
We know that, but the church survived and the church thrived
because it was the true church.
Let's even forget the true church to say it survived
because there were so many people who were transformed by this message
and that's what matters.
And they eventually wrote down their creeds and, yeah,
so therefore it's reliable in some way in that it's still affecting people today
and still doing its thing today.
So first, the Gospel of Thomas.
That second question, you'll probably have to try and ask it again
because I'm not entirely sure.
Maybe I'll tackle that first.
So I think, I mean, I've said this a couple of times
and in a couple of places before that Christianity,
as we know it, early Christianity from the first, second century.
So this is like Paul's Christianity.
We know Christianity predominantly from the writings of Paul.
Paul was writing between like 50 and 70 CE.
I think the book of Hebrews, you can date back to kind of around that time as well.
And then you have like the gospels and just about everything else,
sort of at the end of the first century.
But all of this stuff, it's all Greek literature
and all of it reflects what's going on in the Greek Christian church.
So these are the churches outside of Palestine, Judea.
These are the churches that Paul and his colleagues have been busy planting
as missionaries across the Roman Empire, right?
Paul makes a pretty strong point throughout his writings
that his gospel is for the Gentiles.
And one of the major points in a lot of Paul's writings
is the contention that exists between him
and the early establishment of Christians in the Jerusalem church.
So these were the Aramaic speaking first followers of Jesus
who set up camp in Jerusalem, right?
This was for all intents and purposes a Jewish sect at this point.
The first Christians who were in Jerusalem
were effectively basically just practicing a form of Judaism
with the conviction that Jesus was the expected Messiah
who had died and been resurrected.
Now, importantly, we know nothing about this church.
We know nothing about the adherents except what Paul tells us.
That's it.
And importantly, this church, this first early Christian movement,
this sect of Judaism,
it disappeared when the Romans destroyed the city in 70.
And it's gone, which is why the Christianity that survived
was Paul's Christianity.
The Greek speaking Christianity from the empire, right?
So what we're already talking about is something that's a step removed
from Jesus and his followers.
It's already a step removed from them.
So that's kind of what we're talking about.
And these are the manuscripts that we have.
They come from this world.
So I make that point, I guess,
just to reinforce how complex this picture is,
how much information we don't have.
And with regards to whether or not there's some truth
to the message of Christianity on the basis of the fact that it did survive,
whether this is some sort of sign of its reliability as an historian,
I just look back on that and I go, well, that's history.
History works like this.
History is just a series of recurring accidents over and over and over again.
You can't predict what's going to happen.
Unless you're Daniel.
That kills me.
Sorry.
Oh, Gospel of Thomas.
What is the Gospel of Thomas?
I'll be quick with this.
So this is a, it's a gospel.
It's called the sayings of Jesus as they were recorded by his disciple,
Thomas Didimus, the twin.
They're the secret sayings of Jesus.
And it is, it is just a, it's just that it's a collection of sayings.
So it's not like, it's not like the other four Gospels,
which, which is like a running narrative, right?
It's just sayings of Jesus.
And it's, it's been thought that, although I think this is probably not the case anymore,
but early on, so scholars have hypothesized about the existence of a source for lots of the material
that's in common between Matthew and Luke, but doesn't exist in Mark.
Scholars have called that Q and suggested that,
that both Matthew and Luke are drawing from the same common source.
And early on, it was thought that that source, that hypothetical source was a sayings gospel.
And they traced a bunch of the stuff, the sayings in Q, or sorry, the sayings in Thomas also back to the sayings gospel.
So there's some thought among early Christian scholars that the Gospels might have started just as that,
as collected sayings of Jesus.
The followers of Jesus started just, you know, putting together things that they remembered him saying.
And then, you know, this, this collection of sayings grew to include certainly a whole bunch of sayings that they just made up
and attributed to Jesus, and eventually, you know, developed into this narrative with a beginning
and his travelogue through in and around Galilee and then down to the Decapolis and into Jerusalem.
So like, the Gospel of Thomas then has suggested to some that it takes sort of this,
maybe it's exemplary of this primitive form of, you know, a pre-gospel, which was just comprised of sayings of Jesus.
So, and it just, it goes like that, you know, Jesus said this, Jesus said this, Jesus said this.
From beginning to end, it's just this collection of sayings.
A number of the sayings are clearly drawn from either the other Gospels or from a common source that the other Gospels have,
but then some of them are like wild.
The character of the Gospel of Thomas is, is, it's been called a Gnostic Gospel.
So it's, it's part of this, this movement, this early Christian movement, which, which seems to have, have taught that there was, you know,
part of becoming a true Christian was attaining this secret knowledge is very, it's very wooey spiritually.
Eventually the physical is, is wicked and evil and to be overcome and truth and light and harmony all exists in the spiritual world, right?
I, I love learning about the Gnostics and other sects of Christianity.
So is the Gospel, the Gospel of Thomas, isn't the Gospel that has the giant talking cross?
The giant cross? No, that's the Gospel of Peter.
Yeah. So what, I ran a question. What's your favorite non conon, conon, conon, non non?
Oh my God. I'm very, here we go.
We're not moving on until you can say it.
What's your favorite non canonical Gospel?
Oh, I did it.
I still don't even know if that was right.
This whiskey is like fucking me up to be honest.
Oh, it doesn't take much, does it?
No, it doesn't. This is wild.
Oh, my favorite non cononical Gospel.
Hmm.
So the, well, actually, I like,
Give me a recommendation because I want to read one. I haven't read one.
So give me a recommendation.
So you should, you should read the Gospel of Peter and you should also read the Gospel of Barnabas.
And now I might be getting, I, this is starting to go to my head too.
And so I might be, I might be mixing these up.
But one of the, one of the, one of them in particular,
you definitely should read because it is outrageously anti-Semitic.
And like this is, it's thought that this is potentially one of the reasons why, you know,
it was very, very popular for a long time.
But it's thought that, that maybe this is one of the reasons why it just didn't,
didn't make the cut for, for the, the festival letter of Athanasius that he wrote in,
in, was it 350 or 380 AD, which is, you know, the, the, the official stamping of the, you know,
these are, these are the canonical texts.
But it's, it's thought that maybe one of, maybe the reason why it didn't make it in was because it is like wildly anti-Semitic.
But yeah, it's, it's a wild read.
So yeah, definitely those two.
And you should also, you should read the Gospel of Thomas too because the Gospel of Thomas is rightfully considered,
if not in whole, certainly portions of it contemporary with stuff that's taken with stuff that is recorded in the four canonical Gospels.
Um, yeah.
Wow.
Okay.
So, wow, that was a hell of a tangent, wasn't it?
That was.
At least strobel, guys.
Time is back to the documentary evidence.
Oh, yeah.
Where the hell was I?
Well, that's great.
This is, this is what we do.
Yeah.
Okay.
Actually, maybe before we do that, we usually do super chats to the end, but this one's kind of in line with what we're talking about Aaron Colson,
the Pope of deep drinks, who maybe stepping down, what is stepping down next month.
Dun dun dun dun dun.
I don't know if that's the first time I mentioned it, but as the Pope, so the seat will be open, but we'll talk about that later.
But Aaron Colson has a super chat.
Two dollars.
Thank you so much.
How does the P5575 affect the Q theory?
Oh, it's a, it's a, it's a good question.
Hold on a second.
I just have to, I'll, I'll answer it in just one second here.
I reckon the person found it just wants to sin, to be honest.
Uh, probably, probably.
But, um, yeah, you know how it goes, right?
Sorry.
Um, yeah, it's, it's a good question.
And, um, I, I'm probably not the right person, uh, to answer that question.
Um, because I, I am not, uh, I'm not really familiar enough with, uh, Q to say one way or another.
But as on the basis of the stuff that I've read it, because that was, of course, one
of the, one of the, the questions that was raised when this was first published was,
is this Q?
Um, and I believe that everybody has, you know, it was come out and said, no, this is definitely
not Q.
Um, so I will say it doesn't have any direct impact on the theory of Q itself.
Although I think it potentially lends some traction, uh, to how Q reflects our ideas about
development of the Gospels.
So I think what P5575 does for us is it provides us a, a, an example, a, a, a real life tangible
manuscript copy of, excuse me, gospel traditions, uh, that were circulating on their way to
being included within or turning into a gospel.
Does that make any sense?
Yeah.
Did you, uh, so, and I was just, I wanted to, uh, if, if Aaron Carlson is going to step
down, I would like to, can I make a nomination?
Uh, well, it's, it's like the highest tier on patron.
So if you want to nominate them, well, I, I want to, can you, uh, can you, uh, try and
get, uh, Papa, Papa emeritus?
Yeah.
That was actually the, that was the, the, the theme I was going with originally, the
anti-pop, uh, we had card, we had cardinals and stuff.
You know, to my patrons, I, um, I am getting some, um, animations and stuff done, uh, for
the, the tears.
So, you know, thank you for your patience.
So, uh, but yeah, join the patron, by the way, everyone, um, because I've got some
questions coming up.
Here's, here's the moment where we, where we pause and just say, God damn, how much do
we love ghost?
Oh, right?
Oh, it's just that one song, man.
That square hammer is just, it's just hit me so differently.
Like it's just, it's a good song.
Uh, did you listen to the, the new album?
Came out in, uh, in the fall?
Oh my God.
It's just so good, David.
Oh man.
I just, um, thumbs up for ghost chat.
Let's hear it.
If anyone hasn't heard, it's kind of like metalheads don't consider it metal in a
way.
Like a lot of people say it's not real metal.
Nope.
But yeah, but I like it.
Whatever it is, I like it.
It's just remarkable.
It's, it's cool.
Go.
I've been so square hammer.
It's really good.
Um, they have a, but, but it's even, there, there are so like, it's not even just like
that.
I mean, it's a square hammer is a killer killer song, but they have so many.
There are like, what's the, what's the, what's you dive into the, uh, into the ghost rabbit
hole?
It's, it's, it's practically endless.
They actually have a, one of my favorite songs, uh, by ghost is actually called Bible.
Um, it's, it's, um, but, uh, yeah, they do, uh, and they do an amazing, I don't know if
you've heard this, is that, have any of you guys heard their, uh, their cover of missionary
man?
I don't know if I have.
Do you know that?
Do you know that song by the rhythmics?
I think it was originally by the rhythmics, but, uh, oh, so good.
So, uh, man, uh, look at that.
Even, even, even the metal theologian says he's going to be with ghost.
Yeah, it's good.
That's good.
Metal theologian, tell us a little bit about yourself because that's an interesting, uh,
dichotomy in your, in your name there.
We actually have a, um, metal theologian does, uh, does semi regular, uh, you know,
regular, uh, tours of his own record collection on his channel.
You should check it out.
Sometimes pretty great.
Oh yeah.
Cool.
We have a $20.
Thanks.
Oh, yeah.
But that's, thank you so much for the $20.
That's, that's amazing.
Um, grumpy old man said, how can you tell where they were written?
Uh, yeah.
That's a good question.
So, um, and, and now this is, uh, so the reason I guess I take it, uh, as I said,
uh, the gospels, none of the gospels were written in, uh, Palestine or Judea.
Uh, the reason this is what scholars posit is that the gospels were all written in
Greek.
Um, and based on what we, what we think we know about the first Christians being this,
this Jewish sect basically in the first century in Jerusalem, it, it's very, very improbable
that anyone of them would have, you know, circulated their, their literature about Jesus
in Greek if they even could.
Um, so that's, that's, and, and there's, there's, there's some of the stuff, some of the stuff
I don't know really well because not a New Testament scholar, but, uh, um, as I understand
it, you know, there's, there's, there's bits within, within the text themselves in terms
of, of some of the geography.
Um, there's tells that indicate that, uh, that these probably don't come, uh, from Judea.
So, so all, all that to say, that's how they, that's how most scholars are pretty certain
they weren't written there.
Um, the, the question as to where they were written remains pretty wide open being on
that.
Could you touch a little bit because you mentioned that, uh, in one of the last streams, uh, that
we had, even though the Gospels were written in Greek, if they were originally written
in Aramaic or some of the language, there would be tells in the Greek.
The Greeks were a translation and you don't have them.
Can you tell us a little bit about that?
So we actually, so one of the things that we, we do have, uh, this is one of the, and
this is controversial, not, not every scholar, uh, buys into this, but I, I think it's relatively
compelling.
Uh, it's like, um, you know how, how our friend, uh, Dr. Motte, uh, Matthew Monger was,
was telling you about, uh, about translation in that, that stream that you did earlier
and he talked about, um, um, you know, he would, he would be interpreting for you.
Right.
Uh, one of the things also that, uh, that you would discover, like we can tell in particular
you, you can, you can usually tell, uh, when it comes to the ancient works, especially
you can see indications within the language, uh, that suggest this was translated from
another language, right?
Like we see this, the, the, the Septuagint, this is the Greek translation of the Hebrew
Bible.
Um, when you read the Septuagint, you encounter all sorts of, um, constructions which are
grammatically fine in Greek, but maybe a little odd, but then you, you look at that compared
to the Hebrew and you understand, Oh, well, it's, you know, somebody who's more familiar
with the Hebrew language is translating this into Greek.
Maybe the Greek isn't so strong that they can, you know, just do it like that, right?
So they, it's, it's, it's like there's, there's like these, these, these, um, it's almost
like scoring, like, like, uh, like, like marks that make their way through, um, which show
that, that this was, this was translated from Hebrew or Aramaic.
In the Gospels themselves, there are a handful of, uh, of places where scholars think that
they have, they can detect, um, and it's, it's almost entirely, uh, sayings of Jesus.
Uh, in a handful of the sayings of Jesus, there are indicators within the way that the
Greek construction was formed that suggest this was translated out of Aramaic.
Um, you know, the way that the, the way that, that the, uh, the Greek writer is using a
prepositional phrase or, or the way that, um, sorry, I'm speaking grammar gobbledygook
now.
I'm sorry.
But, but, but you're saying it is translated from Aramaic?
Not the Gospels.
Oh yeah.
There's just a small handful of, uh, like a couple of sayings of Jesus that bear telltale
marks.
This, this lines up with what you were saying before about the, the, the, the, the, the,
there probably was this earlier maybe sayings tradition around, uh, Jesus and then the rest
got paddled out.
Right.
Hundreds, like a hundred years later.
So, and they're the, and, and as far as I'm aware too, and again, this is not something
that, that I'm, this is not my, this is not my, as Josh would say, this is not my area
of expertise.
I want to throw something at you.
I'll make up wild claims.
Why can't he do it?
You notice he's not saying it as much anymore.
So, uh, yeah.
But anyways, um, uh, god damn it.
No, it's the, um, I, I, I do have, sorry, sorry, guys, I'm, we're both at the very drunk
level.
Well, I'm very drunk.
Um, look, I haven't drank that much.
I don't drink that much anymore.
I mean, deep drinks has ruined my appetite for booze, but I say not much, I still probably
drink once a week, but if deep drinks isn't on, but, um, so I have a question and this
is, this is very tangential to what we're talking about, but, uh, I have this issue
with apologetics at the moment that I'm thinking through.
I mean, having a lot of discussions, I had a discussion with a Christian and an atheist
from, um, the Divide on my channel recently about the word this generation will not pass
away until they see all these things happen, right?
Oh, right.
Uh, and the, and, um, Bill, the Christian was, he's, he's got a background in the classics
and he bring out a very compelling argument for why that generation didn't mean how we
read it in English.
And we get the same thing with, you know, Matthew and Luke's genealogies where they say, well,
this is actually in the, in the gospel of Luke.
It's actually Mary's bloodline, wink, wink, nudge, nudge, but, but, but then when you
actually read the English, it says, you know, Joseph, it says it's Joseph's grandfather
or whatever, or that was them.
So what I, the issue I have with apologetics is if what they're saying is true, and this
is where I want you to weigh in, if what they're saying is true, shouldn't the Bible in English
say it like that?
Like, shouldn't it translate it like that?
So for example, with this generation will not pass away until it's the, all these things
happen.
And then you talk to an apologist and you're like, that doesn't make sense.
They go, ah, this generation actually means a race of people.
The Jewish people will not pass away until all these things happen, right?
Well, then I go, okay.
So you're saying the English translation of the Bible is wrong for English years.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, you just need to understand the context of generation.
Why?
Why do I need to understand the context of the generation?
Because the understanding I have is a translation of the Bible is supposed to make it easy
for you to understand the original context of the scriptures.
So what I'm asking is, let's say the apologists are right, let's just grant the apologists
are right for some, for, for these, for these problems, these, uh,
They could be right.
Bible.
Right.
Why not?
They could be.
Yeah.
So in that case, wouldn't Bible translators, shouldn't Bible translators, assuming they're
right, shouldn't Bible translators then translate those words, how the apologists are saying
it?
So for example, this race should not pass away.
Wouldn't that be the case?
Or is that, is that going to, because like this, this seems like the biggest problem
in apologetics.
And if, and depending on how you answer, I may or may not make a video about this because
this, this is before it goes, yeah.
Apologists essentially saying that the Bible is lying in English, in English.
Before it goes away.
Do you want to grab Simone's, Simone's, uh, uh, chat there and throw that up on the screen?
Uh, this, there we go.
Yeah.
Well, this one had door.
Yeah.
It's the same thing.
Yeah.
It's the same thing.
The door has that.
So that's the, that's the Hebrew for, uh, this generation.
How do I, um, so, uh, if I think what you're, I, so you're making, you're making an important
point here.
And I actually think, um, so I watched, it took me like two days to watch, uh, a stream
that, are you familiar with this guy?
He's, he's, I, I've only started seeing fairly recently, but he does some good stuff.
Isn't he?
It's Michael Beverly.
Have you seen, uh, some of his stuff, um, better with faces.
He's got a, he's got a beard, a white beard, um, so he did, uh, but I, it's a glorious
beard.
Yes.
Um, so I, I bring this up because.
Because he, he had on, um, uh, Rob Rowe from Sentinel apologetics and, uh, on his, uh,
on his last, his last, uh, his last live stream, I don't, uh, but, uh, Rob Rowe from Sentinel
apologetics gets very upset at me because I constantly refer to him as the Deepak Chopra
of Christian apologetics.
Uh, the reason I call him the Deepak Chopra of Christian apologetics is because he's,
he's like, uh, his, he's a bright, bright guy.
Um, I mean, he writes his own, he's, he's, he's an untrained, uh, layman who reads for
raciously, uh, through his enormous collection of books that he has, you know, over on the
evil empire of biblical studies, platform, logos, biblical software.
That's, I'm sorry, I'm never mind that.
So he's got this large collection of books that he's, he's put together and he reads
for raciously and he's, he's so intensely interested in this stuff that he writes his
own commentaries.
He's got like a, a 600 page document, his own commentary that he's written on the book
of Daniel or he's done another one on, I don't know, I think it's the gospel of Mark.
I'm not sure, but, uh, bright, bright guy.
Um, he does something in the sciences like professionally, I think, but this is kind
of like he, he's, this is sort of his approach is, is that he, he, he takes this, it's a
very, uh, deep pack Chopra II kind of approach to, you know, the, the science of the texts
and the science of the scholarship and trying to fuse that with, um, the, the mysticism
of his faith, um, it's, it's amusing, but he, he went on with Michael Beverly a couple
of days ago on Michael Beverly's channel and they had a five and a half hour conversation.
It took me like two days or three days to watch it, right?
It was ridiculous, but Michael Beverly, I think rightly made this point because this
is something that you encounter, right?
When you, this is what Christian apologetics is.
It's this, uh, it's that meme from the, uh, um, the dumb and dumber movie.
That's the one.
There you go.
Five and a half hours.
Yeah.
I'm just, I'm just, I'm just saying.
It's that meme from that, Christian apologetics is that meme from that, that movie, dumb and
dumber, right?
So, so you're telling me there's a chance.
Um, you know, it is, it is, uh, leaping through, uh, hoop after hoop after hoop, uh, connecting,
you know, a series of, of dots on the basis of the flimsiest of, of, of, of historical
value, and then suggesting this is the explanation for the thing that can't be explained.
Um, and, and this is, you know, this is why when, when you encounter, I think just about
any Christian apologist, when you raise an objection, uh, they always have an answer.
Right.
Well, you know, it, uh, if you, if you collate this calendar on the basis of, of, of, of
this model that they were using back in the, in the Bronze Age, then you can, then, then
this accounts for this discrepancy and, and, you know, these sorts of things.
So, um, in this, in this stream, uh, Michael Beverly, this is what Rob's doing, right?
He's, he's connecting dots and he's, oh, if you read this, this brilliant, uh, you know,
fourth century Christian father, and you combine what he wrote with, you know, something that,
uh, J. R. R. Tolkien said in the Lord of the Rings, and then you connect that to, you know,
Augustine and then back to Calvin.
And, and if you look at this all through the lens of what it says in the, uh, in, in the
Cyra Hexapla text of, you know, the book of Jeremiah, then you, then you understand,
you know, you have the answer and is going through, uh, this sort of approach with Michael
Beverly. And at one point, uh, Michael, this goes like, whoa, like, that's fine for you.
You're a bright guy, but what about the, you know, the 99.9% of people aren't going to get this?
It's not clear, right? It's, it's not simple. It's not straightforward, uh, because, because the,
uh, because from, from a, a logical approach to the data, you can't make it fit.
So you have to jump through the hoops and you have to connect the dots in these bizarre,
you know, careening ways all across your page.
Hmm. It becomes nonsense to, to people. And, you know, I don't, I think, um,
that's a very roundabout way of, of kind of answering your, your question or your point
that, yeah, like that, that's why the text doesn't say, you know, uh, what was it instead of this
generation? Yeah. Well, that, we actually, we did a whole stream on it with, um, this guy,
oh, it automatically tags, well, that's cool. Um, I drew the skeptic, Bill, the Christian,
and, um, Bill has a, he's a, um, he's got a PhD in classics and he knew his stuff, like he,
you really feel about this stuff. And, uh, he had a theory different from every,
like it's his own theory kind of thing. Well, I think it is. Uh, but at the end of the conversation,
I said, like, why is it so complicated? Like, if God had a message for humanity,
right? But, but, but he's, but he's, I think, correct me if I'm wrong, a bit drunk, but he said
someone correct me, go, go and watch it for an hour and come back and tell me. Um,
he said, uh, it's not complicated. And I said, but it is, we just spent, like, like, I'm thinking,
like, we just spent an hour and a half, like, do sing it out. And I didn't even push back really
very hard on a lot of the points because it's the first time I'm hearing them. Um,
but it was a great conversation. It was actually part two of conversation. The first one was on,
uh, their channel, The Divide. Um, but it was, it was, it was one of those conversations where,
like, it was actually really enjoyable even though we disagreed. Like, it's, it's like,
I imagine what it would be like talking to Christopher Hitchens where you could argue with
him and still be enjoyable by the end of, end of the conversation. It was good. It was, I really
appreciate it. And I'm really appreciate them coming on. Um, well, I actually have this one
quite, I, sorry to pivot it again. So before we, like, let me just, let me just say this because
I think, I think this is, this is the key here, right? Like, here's the problem. Uh, religion,
in particular, ancient religion is complicated. It's super complicated and it's super complex
and it is difficult to understand. But one of the reasons for that is because it's not
particularly logical. Like, it has to be in order to make sure all the dots connect.
So it, uh, and, and for, like, for my money, um, that's where, you know, that's where religion fails.
It, it can't, it can't address- What would Christian Kip say?
What would Christian Kip say? Um, well, Christian, Christian Kip would, when I was last a Christian,
I would, I, well, maybe not when I was last a Christian, but there was a, like, there was a time
in my life when I used to do just what, what, like Rob Rowan, your, your, your friend Bill
are doing, where I was like, well, you, you've just got to read, you just got to read two centuries
of, of early church fathers in order to understand what's going on here. Um, and, and because it,
because I was able to take the time and had the wherewithal to make the sense of it, it seemed to
me like, well, this is, you know, once you get there, it should be easy for everybody else,
but it's just not. Right? I, you know, I came to realize my, my parents and my friends don't care
about all of this stuff. Right? It's so true. I just don't. Pat, Pat Lowender said,
$2, I've seen less massaging and then she had superala. Is that referencing the conversation with
a, I hope, I hope, I don't know. I'm not actually sure. I hope, I hope you're drinking Japanese whiskey,
Pat. I really want to connect with Pat. It's, I keep seeing him around and I'm like, oh, that's,
so I've never actually, I don't think I've had a conversation with him, but, um,
so I actually had, uh, this, this, this comment written down, um, a long time ago
in one of the, because what I did is I went back into, I've got so many Google docs that just say
Kip Davis, cause he'd been on the show so many times and I've got like all the notes of the
things I'm going to ask you. And one of the things was, um, when I interviewed Eric Manning
from Testify Apologetics, um, I think he's an all sort of author, uh, he, he said that, um,
I don't think he's an author. Oh, no. Maybe, maybe not. I don't think so. Um, I'll ask him.
Yeah. Yeah. It's good. Like, he's like, I'm friends with him. Um, we definitely don't see
that, but that's, that's actually, I like, I like friends like that. Um, but anyway, he,
uh, when we having a conversation either on Facebook or maybe he said this in a video or
maybe I can't remember. It's a long time since I've written this down or maybe, um, when he was
on Deep Drinks, he said, philosophers and biblical scholars give a reasoned defense for their claims.
So therefore they too are apologists of some sort. Everyone is an apologist. Just, um, do
your best to avoid being a bad one. Stop letting people use the word apologist as a slur. I think
that might have been a tweet, actually. Um, yeah, this is, I've, I've heard Eric say, uh, this sort
of thing pretty frequently before. Um, so, uh, oh, that's, that's right. Philosophers and biblical
scholars give a reasoned defense for their claims. So therefore they too are apologists of
some sort. Everyone is an apologist. Just do your best to avoid being a bad one. Stop letting
people use the word apologist as a slur. Well, in the first place, uh, let's be clear about what the
word means, right? Apologist is, is a, so it is, it is developed from the, from the Greek word
apologia, which basically means defense. So you have arrived in an idea. You have to, you have to
provide a rationale for the idea that you've arrived at is, is the notion here. And I, and this is just
simply not, um, how we should be doing history. It's just not. Um, so biblical scholars, I don't
care about philosophers, um, but, uh, certainly biblical scholars. Uh, when it comes to biblical
scholarship, one of the things that, um, you know, people, people like me, people like Dan
McClellan, like Jennifer Bird, like Matt Munger, like, uh, Robert Cargill over at Excavator and, uh,
the dude on, uh, Religion for Breakfast and Josh. Oh, he's great. Like the Religion for Breakfast
guy? Yeah. Or Josh Bowen. Oh, both. Yeah, he's, he's, yeah, he's, he's, he's, he's, really? You're a
big fan of Josh Bowen. Huge fan. Huge fan. I keep wanting to get a signed book and they keep
on sending it. They never send, but, um, I can't get rid of that guy. I just, he's following me.
Who's that? Who's that dude? Uh, uh, let's talk Religion. He's also brilliant. He's so brilliant.
Oh, um, and another guy, Justin Sledge from Esoterica. Let's just talk about our favorite
people on the internet. Right. But, so these guys, Bart Ehrman, uh, like, take your pick. Like,
all of these, there's this, this array of biblical scholars who are doing their best to promote
uh, biblical scholarship. Andrew Mark Henry. Thank you, Vishanti. Uh, who are doing their
best to promote biblical scholarship in public spaces? That's what I, I think that I'm trying to do.
So we, we get labeled as, you know, critics or enemies of the Bible or as atheists or as skeptics.
Um, and inherent within that label is this idea that we are somehow against, um, a certain
thought or presentation or, you know, we're, we're somehow, we're somehow against Christianity.
Um, but what always gets missed in this discussion is that maybe not every single one of us, but I,
I would suspect the vast majority of us didn't start doing this because we just wanted to take
a dump on Christianity. That wasn't the goal from the start, right? Like, I started my university
education because I love Jesus and because I wanted to help people who love Jesus to know
their Bibles better. That's where I started. And I know that, uh, like my, my good friends,
Josh, well, I don't know. Oh, that's just wrong guy. That's just wrong guy. But like, I know,
you know, Jennifer Bird, Matt Munger, uh, Bart Ehrman, um, we all started in that same place.
We love the Bible. We love Jesus. We wanted to, to help people understand the truth of the Bible,
the truth of Christianity. So like on my, uh, it was like second week at university
when I took my first course with, uh, Professor Peter Flint and he informed me that, uh, you know,
Noah probably didn't exist and there was no global flood. I was absolutely devastated by
disinformation, like it was just, it was, it was world changing. It was not welcome. It is not
something that we went looking for. Um, critical scholars are critical scholars because of the
evidence. Most critical scholars of the Bible started from a place of faith, of being determined
to demonstrate the, uh, the viability and the truth of the Bible. And in the process of that,
made discoveries about the Bible that were quite different from, uh, from, from where we started,
right? Like it just, uh, it, this is, this is, this is how I, I, this is what frustrates me,
I think about, about people like, like Eric Manning and, and this idea that we're all just doing
the same thing from different sides. No, we're not. The fact of the matter is that there are,
that most critical scholars are Christians and Jews who are still, you know, deeply committed,
worshiping Christians and Jews. And they have arrived at their historical conclusions because
of the evidence. And that's the difference between critical scholars and apologists.
Apologists do whatever they can to find workarounds of the evidence that they can't avoid.
That's why, uh, inspiring philosophy, Michael Jones made, you know, a one and a half hour
documentary about the Exodus, which basically posits, there were Semitic people who lived in
Egypt, the end. Like the, yeah. And, and it's looking for, for loopholes and it's looking for,
for the, the most, you know, the, the most remote of possibilities, right?
What if the one genealogy in Luke is actually Mary's genealogy and the other genealogy in Matthew
is actually Joseph's genealogy? Our work is done. Does it say that in the text? Is it even implied?
No. So I, I guess, I don't know. That's, I'm probably drinking too much too, but no, no,
that, that was all brilliant. The thing for me is like, I've heard people say to me in person,
you just want to rule out the supernatural or you will never accept the supernatural. I'm like,
and, and honestly, like honest to, to God, Yahweh, uh, what's the, um, Allah, Neil deGrasse Tyson
word, like all of them, right? Like, I swear, if I, like, I, I can put myself in, this is how I
started first investigating my, my, uh, my Christian worldview is I removed my Christian
helmet and I tried to look at the evidence. I trained myself to look at the evidence,
not even trying not to even like, I'm not even a male anymore. I'm not even a white man. I'm not
even like, I'm trying to remove as much as I possibly can. Like I'm looking at it, like I'm
training myself really hard to look at it. So if someone says to me, like, all right, let's,
let's posit also the supernatural, I can do that. I can look at the evidence and go like,
okay, what are the odds that this is like also supernatural or maybe that God preserved his
word or something. And like, I do that. And it really bothers me when people say,
you just want to, you just want a naturalistic explanation. Like, I don't, I just want an
explanation that works. And it seems like the naturalistic explanation works. And it seems
like the supernatural one doesn't. And you have to do these mental gymnastics. And it's obvious
why you don't accept the natural explanation because you're, you're going to church every
Sunday, your family's religious, like you've grown up in the tradition is very important to you. You
have a very intact worldview. And then you get involved in these communities of apologists who
all come together and they, they all support each other and they love each other. And they're
like, we're going to find a way to stand up for the word of God. And you start there and you
keep learning more and more and more. And then all of a sudden, you're in this like, bizarro
worldview. Like you, you see in Seinfeld, right? Like, I'm sure you said so, but it's like,
bizarro worldview with bizarro Jerry and bizarro George and like everyone, like,
nothing, like that's the top of Christianity that's left over. It's like, this isn't Jesus. This
isn't like, wait, I haven't seen the documentary by Michael Jones. And again, he's a friend. But
like, are you saying that it comes down to a few Samaritans living in Egypt?
So yeah, right? Like, I mean, that's, that's basically it. Like,
Make the extra story. That's incredible.
Whoa. Oh my God.
So yeah, it's, it's, it's, it's the way we don't do, we don't do history when, when we're exploring
any other topic this way. Right? That's, that's the big difference. Like we don't, I, I mean,
I just told you, Josephus talks about, you know, a cow giving birth to a rabbit giving birth to a
pig. I don't look at that and go, Oh, well, I don't know. I mean, Joseph wrote it down. He was there.
He was in Jerusalem at the time this happened. So I, I'll say he was a, he was a first hand
witness. Like he was a contender. You know, I, I, my, my mom, she's been watching Deep Drinks.
And she, she said, Emma, she's, she's probably watching right now. She said that she can't
believe that she used to believe, like she, she thinks back to just like talking donkeys.
She's like, well, I believe in talking donkeys. And she's like, this is even, or even like,
I thought about it. I'm like, wait, so like the serpent in the garden of even Eden was talking,
but like, but then it's like, but they, they couldn't physically talk. They don't, they don't
have the, the ability with that. Yeah, they can't make the physical body couldn't talk.
They don't have lips. And they're like, oh, it's just like, so, so then all of a sudden you have
to, the serpent in the garden of Eden isn't a serpent. It's something else. And then all the
Christian art is wrong. And it's like, yeah, yeah. Here's my, here's my mom. I'm here. It's great to
see you. Hey, Sylvia. Hey, man. I don't want this to get away, but you just got some mad love.
Yeah, from Dr. Cheryl Lyle. You've just given the largest super chat we've ever had on Deep Drinks
podcast. Excellent show tonight. Gentlemen, I can listen to Dr. Kip all day, $100. That means the
world to us, to my family and to Deep Drinks at the moment. That means the world to us. We're
on one wage. And what's the old joke that I've been saying, Kip, it's not deep drinks anymore.
It's shallow drinks. Cause I can't afford shallow drinks. I can't afford, I can't actually afford
a lot of the drinks that I guess want. So I have a substantial lot that David's last bottle of
Japanese whiskey. And also, I don't know if people watch it to watch for like the exact same drink,
but Dr. Cheryl, that is super amazing. I'm going to message you after this. I really appreciate
that. That's like overwhelming, a huge amount of money. Thank you so much. I really appreciate
you. Jason Roland's also sent a five-wheeled super chat. You guys are never gonna get through this
fucking bug. No. Thank you for the five-wheeled super chat.
What are these days, though? Well, I do actually want to say, so how far are we through chapter
three? We could probably leave chapter three alone now. We've probably effectively put to bed.
I hope everybody is clear on the idea that the manuscript evidence has to be weighed with some
exceptional care. Yeah, there's piles of manuscript, but very few of them go back nearly as early as
most people think that they do. They're super fragmentary, and they actually paint a picture
of a developing text. I think that's all I have to say about that. Like, you know...
Yeah, I think that makes a lot of sense. You have to, I want you to grab that one from
what your pastor didn't tell you there, just because I want to give a shout out to Zach Miller,
who is a friend of mine who runs this YouTube channel. There you go. I didn't see what he
posted before, but oh, thanks, buddy. But yeah, he's a good dude. He does...
So, Zach is a student of biblical studies, and he has on scholars on his channel,
and has some pretty great interviews about various topics related to the Bible.
So, we're getting a lot of shout outs today from different channels. What the pastor
didn't tell you? Go check out that channel. I'll be doing that on my Twitter right now.
And look, he wears... That's a picture of him, so he dresses up like Moses in his videos,
which is amazing. So, yeah. So, it's good. So, I think we are through Chapter 3.
Like, I'm probably... I don't know. Where do you want to go from here? And how much of this do you...
I think what we do, because it seems to be... Everyone, I need you to comment to tell me
even correct, but it seems to be that these books, these chapters, it's less about pulling
apart the chapter, and it's more about where the conversation then leads to from the chapter,
because these random tangents that we've been on have been really enjoyable for me,
and I hope everyone else is liking it as well. Please tell me if you are liking these longer
streams with Kip, where we're just bantering and talking about stuff, because we could continue
the series on. We could move into Chapter 4 or something and continue until we get to the ones
that we don't care about. So, I'll say one thing here about what I have in my notes.
I think I mentioned this to you before. There was a lot in Chapter 3 just because I'm a
manuscript guy, and that's what I do. For Chapters 4, 5, and 6, I have a couple of things,
but not a lot. And then, because I just can't... I don't know how much of this I can do.
I spent a fair bit of time in Chapter 10, and that got us through Old Testament prophecy.
I don't know how much I can handle the several chapters that he's written about,
the resurrection of Jesus. But I guess we can take it as it goes, right?
So, maybe if we're going to do this again, maybe let's focus. We could probably get through a few
Chapters next time. Okay. We've only managed to do one. Oh, no. We can do a few Chapters next time,
maybe. Do people want more of this? Yeah, do people want more of this? Do you want us to keep
doing this? People are saying that they do, and there's a lot of viewers here. David, continue
to get $100 super chats if I come on and talk about... Or if I do this from time to time.
Okay. I think what we do... You know what I think we do? I think we just plan... Because we've had
longer streams in this with me and you, and I was planning for this one to be longer as well,
but let's just hit out... Let's just play on a longer stream and we'll choose a really good
drink and we'll just... Okay. Maybe a cheaper drink next time, right?
Tash and Pop, or whatever they call it. Yeah, we can goon wine, goon sake wine, or... No. Yeah, we
can substitute. We don't have to drink the exact same thing. I try and do things.
But yeah, I'd be keen for that. My friend Zach Miller desperately wants a
Falk face. You should sell them. You'll probably get sued, but you'll get sued.
So, yeah. Yeah, sorry. You were saying I got distracted. So type one in the chat if you want
more of this. Pragmatic Crystal, I'll shut your DM on Discord, by the way. I really want to connect
with you about some stuff. One, one, one, one, one. Yeah, so people seem to enjoy this.
People are okay with this. Okay. I'm also going to put out a poll to see what time people like
these, because this is a later stream and people seem to enjoy it. How many people are watching?
74. Oh, that's pretty good. Good job, people. That's a huge, huge, huge for us at the moment.
Nice. Nice. Well, okay. Well, what we'll do is we'll wrap up the show.
Let me just shout out your stuff real quickly. Can I, can it, before, before we do this,
can I, can I just, just kind of say one thing to tease it? Because I've been pretty excited about
this. So one, I mean, one of the things that's coming up in a future show
that people can look forward to is that when David decided he wanted to do this,
when we talked it through and we agreed about doing this, I don't do audio books very often,
but I found, I found a free version of the audio book of this. And I was doing, I was traveling
at the time. So I thought, well, the best thing I could do is, is just download this audio book
into my phone and plug it into my car for when I'm driving. So I found like an old
audio book version, because I think my audio book version was different than yours, right, David?
I think you said... Yeah, I got the audible version, like the update. I think I got the
updated version of the books too, so... Yeah, because I think you said Lee Strobel is the,
is the reader, right? It's up here because I was really listening to it. I think so.
Yeah, sure. So they got a, the audio book, the audio book version of mine,
they hired, they hired like a professional actor. And I'm sorry, I'm so excited about this.
So I threw it on in the car when I was driving and this professional actor does voices.
Oh no. So, because they're interviews with all these different people. I just realized,
yeah, okay. What did you just realize? I thought you were saying that it was actually
that, like the person who, is it someone acting as if they're that person?
Yes. Okay, keep going. That's so bad.
So yes, he does, the actor does voices for all the, all the people throughout the book. And
I like, I almost drove off the road at one point while I was, while I was listening to it,
because it's, it's so hilarious. But I, I have prepared some clips. So we will,
we will get to those on a future episode, but only if, you know, there's,
so I think I, I, I conservatively set the benchmark for our, our mega stream last month
on Super Bowl Sunday for a billion viewers. So if we, the next time we do this, if we get like,
if we get like two billion viewers, then, then, then I'll play the audio clips. Yeah,
for you guys. Okay. All right. All right. That sounds, that sounds absolutely fantastic.
Share it. Well, two billion viewers.
Let's get two billion, let's get two billion viewers for next time. And also go all, because now two
billion people are watching this one. Let's, let's go over to kids channel and subscribe to kids
channel where you've got this new show. Oh yes. Yeah. No critics. And we are excited. I'm just
there to pull these scores in line, but it's such a good show. It's such a good show. Tell us about
the kid. So, um, my friends, uh, Dr. Jennifer Bird, Dr. Dan McClellan, uh, Dr. Matt Munger,
and that other guy, uh, who likes to, likes to hang around with us, uh, Dr. Josh Bowen.
We are doing a once a month live show on my channel where we will review, uh, bad biblical
scholarship and bad apologetics, and we will take your questions live. So we did our inaugural show
on Super Bowl Sunday. I think it was fantastic. David is helping, very graciously helping me,
um, to produce, uh, the show. He's getting up at like,
I got up at 4 a.m. on a Monday morning. Yeah. Matt Munger, what was it? Matt Munger is up at
like, is it non non PM? It's like light. Yeah, it's like, it's like eight o'clock or nine o'clock PM.
So we have, we've stretched this across 18 time zones between Brisbane and Vancouver, Canada.
Uh, and, and it's, it's epic. We had so much fun, um, in, you know, on, on, on Super Bowl Sunday.
We are going to be doing it again the second Sunday of every month. So I think it's, uh,
the next one will be the 10th of March on my channel. Um, we are still planning on what we
will do next. We started, we started reviewing, uh, a video by Mike Winger, but only got like
five minutes into it. So, so well, we will, we will see how that goes. Um, I might, I'm thinking,
I'm thinking about a couple of things. One of the things we might do is just throw a poll out there,
um, to see what the people want, uh, us to talk about, but, uh, but that will be coming on, uh,
Sunday, the 10th of March at 11 AM Pacific time is two o'clock in the afternoon Eastern.
It's five AM if you live in Brisbane. It's, it's like eight o'clock if you live in Oslo,
but, but come, uh, hang out with us. It's tons of fun. Um, yeah. So I'm, I'm very excited about that.
I've also decided that, uh, I am going to be doing more, uh, more of my own, uh, live shows.
I just went live, uh, just didn't impromptu live, uh, last week.
That's right. You called it surprise. I'm live or something. Yeah.
Yeah. So I'm, I'm going to be doing a few more of those. Uh, my goal right now is to go live once
a week. So, um, yeah, I will probably, I will probably do one next week because I don't have
anything, uh, I don't have anything planned. And then the other big thing, uh, I have a Patreon,
uh, where I, you know, provide early access to my work, uh, to, to my, uh, my videos on
YouTube right now. You can see it right there. I have, uh, an extended, I did a, I did an, an
interview over on data over dogma and they were gracious enough to, uh, to provide me
access for my patrons to the extended interview that we did, which is all about, um, uh, all
about the history of the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls and lots of the intrigue and the
espionage involved with that. It's a wild story. There's great stuff in there. Uh, but that is,
that is a patron exclusive. You can join for as little as $4. I, I think it's, I think it's $4
American a month. Yeah. Um, and I do, I do occasional, I do occasional live meetups there as well
for patrons and something else that I'm working on right now and I have, I have started, I've not
announced this publicly. This is the first time, but I am launching a, so I'm launching a direct
donation page, um, because I'm currently writing a book on, uh, ancient Israelite religions.
This is based on the course that I made for, uh, MVP courses. Um, it's massively expanded
from the course. There you go. Thank you. And updated, but, uh, my hope is to try and get the
book done in the next three months. I'm about half finished, uh, but I need help to, to get it done.
So I will, I will send, I will provide David with, uh, with a link, uh, to the direct donation
page for that. So if you want to, if, if you, uh, enjoy what I do and if you, if you want to support
my work further, there's a couple of great ways to do that. You can either join the patron,
you can direct, you can donate directly to my, uh, my, my GoFundMe for completing the book,
and you can subscribe to my YouTube channel. So, but that's, that's what's going on. Oh,
I'll, oh, one more thing. Um, in terms of upcoming stuff, I will be on Captain, Captain Dad Poole's
channel. Um, we will not be making artisan knives, but I will be on Captain Dad Poole's channel on
Sunday, this coming Sunday at six o'clock PM, uh, to talk about, uh, something that I do,
uh, professionally, which is paleography. So he wanted to do a whole show, uh, with me talking
about, uh, uh, Jewish paleography, what it is, how I do it, uh, what it tells us about the manuscripts,
um, what, and, and how it's useful and all sorts of things like that. So I'm pretty excited about
that. All right. I think that's it, David. That is so much awesome. Come to look forward to,
and of course, I'll shut out, um, deep drinks just quickly coming up in a fight in five days. We have,
uh, Dee Murphy from the Stacey Smalls podcast being a closet atheist for 30 plus years,
which is wild to me. Uh, that's going to be a very interesting story. Once again,
I'm trying very hard not to, not to learn too much about these, um, trying to remove the things in
my memory about Dee, and I'm going to try and go into it fresh. Uh, and of course we have,
uh, Captain Dad Poole, we have, um, oh yeah, so many, so many great guests coming up. I actually
am, uh, a bit too drunk to remember them all, but we have a lot of great guests coming up,
and I'm, I'm, uh, I'm working very hard to, um, get these, uh, these couple of photos done so I
can do it. But if you want to support us on Patreon as well, you can join the Patreon for free
and join the live streams, but then there's also paid versions as well to get you access to behind
the scenes features, uh, including behind the scenes of the documentary that I'm working on,
uh, at the moment about, uh, King James Bible trials, which is, which has been wild. I've got
a stack of books this big and, um, it's been, it's just the more I look into it, the more
I realize I've got to learn before I make the documentary. So, but, uh, and, oh, I guess I'll
be on matters now on March 9th. Oh, go check out matters now on YouTube. I don't even know what
that is. What is that? Well, uh, let's, let's have a look. Um,
it's a show that I'm going to be on. I know that. And they're at like 10,000 subscribers and it's
going to, and I'm going on, it's very low key apparently. It looks, it looks really awesome.
And of course they're, uh, they're talking about Matt Powell, who is just the sweetest of gentlemen.
That's a, that's a, that's a great, oh, look at that doggy.
Oh, and I'm subscribed. Go check out, go check out the, um, the matters now.
Yeah. They have a dog. Something about big dogs, man. Something about dogs in general.
I have no, I have no dogs. There are no dogs in the room.
Thank you. I know. I got a bagel. Thank you. Thank you everyone for coming out. I really
appreciate it. Uh, and, uh, and join the patreon. And if you want to become the pipe of deep drinks,
it's going to be available very soon and you can put your company name up there or do something,
but you'll be the one who blesses all. See you guys later.
Thank you.
