Hey, hey, hey. Welcome to the first episode of 2024 for Deep Drinks. My name is Dave,
and this is an exciting year. This is going to be an exciting time. Everything's always
exciting on this channel. But one thing I do want to mention before we do get started
is if you are a Patreon member or you've checked out the Patreon before, or if you're new to
checking out Patreon, I've redone all the tiers. They've actually dropped the price of all of them,
and so you'll have to, like, if you wear a Patreon, you'll have to sign up for a new tier,
but there's more stuff, it costs less money, and there's also a free tier, which will mean that
if you just don't have the money and you don't want to support the channel, you can still become
part of the community over on Patreon, and you'll be able to join the live streams that we do there
that are less polished than this, and we kind of, you know, talk to each other and have a good
time over there. So go check out Patreon.com slash Deep Drinks if you want to check out the new
tier system. But with that said, I'd like to introduce my guest, Dr. Matthew Philip Munger.
He's an Associate Professor of Near Eastern Languages and Literature at MF Norwegian School
of Theology. Matthew's main research interests are the languages and texts of the ancient Near
East, including Akkadian, Hebrew, Syriac, Aramaic, Ethiopic, and Arabic, and the intersections of
these texts in these languages. Matthew is also the Program Director of the MF Bachelor degree
in Theology, Religion, and Society, and he just told me that after this, he's got to go teach
class on Apocalypses in the Bible. So with that said, I'd like to welcome my guest,
Dr. Matthew Munger. Welcome to Deep Drinks Podcast. Thank you very much, David. Nice to see you.
It's good to see you too. So let me just get the bat up. What are we drinking today?
Yeah, so I can faintly remember that last time we were together, we drank whiskey. I think
it's foggy, and so I haven't really been drinking a lot of alcohol since then. So today we're on
water. I'm still dehydrated from that stream. That was five months ago. I think I'm still a
little tipsy from it, actually. So I went ahead and went fancy. One of my friends a few weeks ago
called me a water snob. That's the first time, and I never knew that was something to be snobby
about. But I've got this Norwegian water. It's called snosa. I like the bottle,
but it's fizzy water. So I'm going to have some fizzy water here today. Oh, wow. I've just got
water out of the fridge, and we have one of those fridge filters that hasn't been changed
like two years, so the water tastes really muddy and gross again. That's what we're doing.
But yeah, that's awesome. So I actually reached out because I saw you were posting on your channel
again. You took a couple of months off when you were doing some stuff. Can you tell us a little
bit about what you've been working on and if you've got any videos that are coming out soon?
Also, people, go subscribe to Biblemonger if you haven't already.
Yeah. So this thing I'm working on right now is I'm continuing my quest to explain how the Bible
is written backwards. But right now what I'm doing is a series on the law, like on biblical law,
where basically I'm just kind of going through some of the pretty standard stuff within the
scholarly field about how biblical law developed within the biblical text and showing how it's both
dependent on itself. So there's different layers, different law codes that show internal
development within the Bible and how it depends on other near Eastern material. So I've got two
videos out there, one comparing the laws within the Bible and then one comparing with the Code of
Hammurabi, which is an earlier law code. And then the one that I actually, I mean, it's done, it's on
my computer. I just need to go through and do some final edits is on the Hittite Law Treaties
or Covenant Treaties that kind of influenced the Book of Deuteronomy. So we'll be looking at that.
I'll hopefully drop it this weekend. And then I'm going to be moving on to looking at the historical
books and looking at the way historical books are written and how they are also looking backwards.
So I mean, this is something that within the secular historical world is like the most obvious
history 101 point is when was history written after the fact? And so I think that's something
that just gets forgotten. And so it's how I always start off when I do a lesson on the history
of the Bible or whatever. It's just like, when do we write histories after the fact? And so we're
going to be, I'm going to spend some time working on that and talking about how scholars view the
construction of the histories in the history of Israel section of the Old Testament.
Yeah. So when you say it's written backwards, it's the idea that things are constantly evolving.
And so there's no like, can you explain a little bit what do you mean by how the Bible is written
backwards? What do you mean by that? Yeah, basically for me, it just means that everything
is looking backwards. So when things are written, they're not written with this,
I guess it would be, it's my way of saying that things aren't inspired, prophetic, looking forward
texts, but they're rather looking backwards at things and making sense of them in their own time.
And so whenever a text is written, it's influenced by the cultures and the, I guess,
the contexts that are around it, but like, even more so, they're influenced by things that have
come before. And so when we look at the biblical material, like a lot of what has been the common
ways of reading it, especially, I guess, within like the more conservative evangelical side of
things has been to say, it all is one big message. And it all points to this one thing or to, you
know, maybe two days, like all points to Jesus or all points to the end times or whatever. And
I think it's my way of looking at it is to say, well, actually, it's all looking backwards,
like the, you know, the stories in Genesis are looking backwards, the stories that were already
written, and they're reinterpreting them, and they're making sense. Like, obviously,
it's a new thing. It's interesting that it's a new thing. It's interesting that the Israelites
are making their own version of this, but that it's more, I think it's more,
I don't want to use like the word correct, but so it's probably, I feel it's a more elegant
explanation of why things are like they are, to say that a group of people said, hey, what can
we do with this material that exists to make it our own, to tell our story. And so again,
like when you're looking at the laws, which I've been doing, it's very, very, very clear that
there are three law courts that show that context changed, and they're looking backwards. And so
that the oldest of them is using ancient Near Eastern laws and says, like, how do we make them
our own? And so they have their kind of their own version of it. But it's some of them are just so
close to the older laws, like from Akkadian context that it's clear that they're using them
in some way, but they're making their own. And then that gets changed, that gets adapted to
new contexts within the Israelite society that like, and again, they're looking backwards to
the older law code and saying, but what do we do now? Like that was made for that situation. But
how do we, how do we do it now that we're this big priesthood and we want to pay our bills and
they're, you know, get to get to eat. So well, we need to up the sacrifices and we get more food.
And, and those are the kind of things that, that make like, it makes most sense to me to talk about
it in that way, as, as these things are growing, based on the authors looking backwards at what's
there and looking around them, but what the context is, rather than thinking that this was
written so that, you know, some future time would do something with it, or that it'll be
meaningful in a future time, like this, it's supposed to be meaningful in the current time.
And it's basing all this on earlier material.
What do you say to someone who may be like a fundamentalist or an evangelical who says that
you're humanizing the text too much and you're taking out too much of God's divine hand?
Like, what do you say to someone who may say that to you?
Yeah, well, I mean, I guess it depends on the, on the context of it. But my, I mean, my
my feeling is that, that those kind of conversations never go well. And that's, that's
what's kind of hard to say anything. But, but what I would say is just that what we're,
what we're talking about is something that, that is written by humans, that, that does exist in
the human realm, that is a physical thing. And that the idea that these are all guided by God
is what has been laid on the text. So it's not me laying on the text, the idea that these things
are human. So the idea that they've been, they've been made by God and that there's like this,
you know, a perfect transmission and everything is, is so, yep, so perfect and holy or whatever,
that those are the ideas that are being added to the, to the, to the text, not what I'm saying.
Yeah, I, I could, I can see that like for a fundamentalist or someone who
holds that view of scripture, it'd be, it's very inconvenient to see it as a collection of books
or to make, take a more intellectual approach to the text rather than to just imagine that it's
perfect. I had a, I had a beer with a Christian friend of mine once and they said, well, you have
to believe in the inerrancy of scripture because otherwise how do you trust anything in the Bible?
And I, and I put it on, I was like, well, do you see what you did there? And like you just said,
you know, truth was, was subject to convenience. Like you're saying that,
you know, we have to believe this, that because of these reasons, not for evidence or reasons or
data, but because it, it, otherwise it'd be too hard. And I think that's a, it's a big issue.
And that's why I appreciate people like yourself, people like Dan McClellan, Data River Dogma,
of course, it's like, you know, presenting the data and not kind of loading it with any type of
theological, as much as possible theological take. And, you know, I really appreciate that. So
guys, go check out your channel because you dropped in that video very shortly,
video number three. So, so I have a question. I mean, I'm working on a documentary. I've been
working on some stuff in the background. And it just occurred to me the other day that you're
a linguist and this is your like jam. This is like the stuff that you like get excited about.
And I've only found myself getting excited about them recently. So I just want to tell me, tell
me more so I can get more excited. But can you, so I'm wondering, so we have the English translation
of the Bible, right? And that, and you know, let's say it's a King James version of the Bible.
And people will tell me that that is the perfect inspired word of God,
which is interesting because it's not even in the original language. So it's like,
well, shouldn't the Greek be a better perfect translation? It's like when
Muslims said the Quran, you have to read the Quran and Arabic. It's like, wouldn't you say the same
thing about the Greek? But it's a few levels removed. So we got like the English version of the Bible
as commissioned by King James in, in talking about just the King James version. And then we have
Coini Greek, which was the New Testament, which was originally written mostly in Coini Greek.
But they usually, they tell stories, a lot of the, well, the Gospels tell the story and teachings of
Jesus, who, as far as we know, didn't speak Greek. And he spoke in Aramaic, which is a different
set of languages. And then, and that Aramaic that we have is, is being written down 40 to
up to 80 years later, after Jesus had died. So we have this like 40, at least 40 year gap of
oral traditions. Correct me if I'm wrong on any of these numbers or dates or languages, but
I just want to kind of start there. Is there any, well, is there, what's the difference between
say Aramaic and Greek? Is that a problem? Like, is that, is that a hard thing to solve? I tried to
use Google translate, Aramaic is not even there. It's a dead language, right? It's not like a language
that's, yeah. So, so like, let's say if I was to translate the term, a dog walked down the road.
And I was, I was writing that in Aramaic, and I wanted to translate that to Greek.
Is that an easy thing to do? Or is it, are the languages similar? Or is it something that actually
you have to use a lot of subjective interpretation? Okay, that was a lot of questions, I think.
Let's unpack it a little. Yeah, unpack. So I think like, okay, we'll do what the linguistic
stuff first, and then I'll talk about the Gospels after. I guess that's, I think it's,
those are, actually in a way, it's two different things for me. But, but let's start with,
let's start with the linguistic question. So when, let's go, go at this a little tangential.
Yeah, yeah, no, no, like, collect my thoughts for me and bring us on. So let's just start with
like that. So what do you call a person who goes to like the, you know, whatever to a meeting
with you, if you don't speak the language, and they, and they help you
translate, what would you call that person in English? Do you know, like, do you know the
term they would, they would call it? Well, I don't know, like a translator, right?
Yeah, or an interpreter. Interpreter. Okay, yeah. And that's like, that's actually a word we use in
English for someone who, who will help you understand what's going on in a situation where
they're speaking another language, you would bring an interpreter. And so, and I think that's
like a really important thing to establish at the beginning is that like, what happens when you
move from one language to another is it's interpreting what's said into, into a new context.
And so like, there, there is no objective translation, like, there's, there's no such thing.
And, and I think that's one of those, one of those things that has become at least,
if people have known this for a very long time, and we've discussed, like, this has been discussed
some within, within academic literature, from the beginning, like, of, of, you know, the modern
academic period, and when we start working with linguistics, is that the idea is that a symbol,
like, words are just symbols, right, they're symbols of ideas or whatever. And they have to
be then transmitted, and then they have to be accepted and interpreted by the, by the receiver.
And, and so there, there is always, even in direct speech in the same language, we might have
different ideas. And that's, that's actually one of the things that I've been reading a little bit
on recently has been from the idea of cognitive science, that they're, again, there's some thinking
people, even speaking the same language, probably have different constructions in their head or
different ideas of what words actually mean. And so individual differences within the same
language, within the same community, are there. And so then as soon as you move to another language,
or even another culture, right, so we know that there's probably things you say in,
in Australia, that I wouldn't necessarily understand what you meant, right. And, and vice
versa. And, and especially if we get down to things that we would say, like, colloquially,
in our local dialect or whatever, like, there are going to be phrases that we would use that are,
that are uninterpretable for someone who, who isn't part of that context. And, and so that's
like, that's one thing, right, there's, there's certain way you talk that is, is communicative,
and, and you would choose also your register based on who you're talking to. So, so like,
all of these things play into this problem of, of what does language do, right. So language is meant
to communicate, but you also choose the way you communicate based on who you're communicating
with and all that kind of stuff. But when we translate, then there are, there are different
ways of thinking about it. And, and so when we're looking at something like Aramaic in Greek,
they're very different structurally, like the way the verbal systems work, the way the syntax
works, so everything works is just different. But that doesn't mean that we can't say things
in, in another language. But it just means you have to sometimes pick different categories
of what you want to say that aren't available in the other language. So when you talk about verbs,
like Greek has a very intricate verb system. And, and the Semitic language is like Aramaic
have a much simpler one. And so you would, you wouldn't be, you're not forced to make the same
decisions in Aramaic as you are in Greek. And, and so that would lead you to probably,
if, if you ask 10 people to translate something, they're going to say it in different ways.
They're going to find different ways of saying it. And, and so that's, you're moving away from what
was actually said, or the intention of it, especially if the person who's speaking Aramaic
is speaking to an Aramaic audience, right? So one of the things like, so I'm, I mean,
I'm functionally bilingual living in Norway. I, I, I moved throughout my day in Norwegian
without any, any hesitation. And I don't, I don't, I don't think about whether I'm speaking Norwegian
or, or English, but transitioning between the two can be a little bit difficult.
And, and it, but it really depends on my audience. And so if I'm speaking to Norwegians,
I use a different register and I use, I speak, I speak differently than I would just talking to
you, who, who's a native speaker, and especially differently than talking to my dad, or, or someone
from, from back home, who, who have a different register, a different dialect. And, and I've
definitely gained like this international English dialect or accent, because I'm so used to speaking
to people that, that probably have some, I don't know, prejudices against a guy that talks like that.
Where my little brother was exaggerating, I'm exaggerating a little bit, but you know, it's
like, it's sometimes, and especially when I'm back home in Virginia, my, my register changes.
And so all that is to say, like there's, there are so many different factors that play into
what happens when we're moving from one language to another, that just make it so intricate that,
that we, we can never assume that what was said, you know, in, say, in Aramaic is exactly what's
written there in Greek. And so this idea of it being an exact representation is just, it's, it's,
yeah, it's, it's ridiculous. And so that, but that for me doesn't matter really, because I think that,
that what we're actually looking at when we're, when we're looking at the Gospels is,
is representations of traditions related to Jesus, not necessarily at Jesus's exact words.
And so I, I don't see why we would need to think that, that all of these things were only passed
down in Aramaic, up until the point when the Gospel writer sits with that source and says,
oh, now I'm going to make it Greek. Like I'm, I, I don't buy into like the mark having been originally
written in Aramaic completely, and then translated to Greek. Is that, is that like a theory that's
out there? Well, it's been, yeah, it's been proposed, it's been discussed in the literature,
and I think it's pretty much, I mean, it's pretty much not, not accepted in mainstream scholarship,
that there, that there's like an older Aramaic version, but there, there's stuff that, that
clearly is Aramaic influence there. And so like we might have had a, you know, a group of Aramaic
speakers that transmitted stuff, and then Greek speakers heard about it and transmitted it to,
and, and whether that was oral or written or whatever, it doesn't really matter because,
you know, when you, when you experience something, you talk about it, and, and even just the telling
of a story is, is in a way translating it into a new context. And so like the telling of something
that happened or something that was said in the context of, you know, hanging out with your friends
or, you know, talking to your parents or sitting in a synagogue or whatever is, is different,
right? And so you're, you're going to tell it in a different way. Like, I mean,
if something, you know, something that happens, you know, to me all the time is I'll find myself
in a situation where I've told a story. And like, maybe I'll tell it, you know, in private, I'll
tell it, and I'll be like really animated and like, it may be cursed a little bit, you know, throw in
all that kind of stuff. But then I'll start to tell this story in a situation where I realize,
I can't tell it like that. Like, you know, work or there'll be another person that enters the room
or, you know, whatever, and you're just going to be like, I was, oh, yeah, so, so then I was,
I was surprised at, you know, change the language, change your mannerisms, you do all that kind of
stuff. And, and so I think it's very, very likely that that what happens when, when these stories
are transmitted over time, that they're, that they're, that they're just adapted to different
contexts, right? And, and so when we're, like, if we're trying to get back to the words that Jesus
said, you know, I find it really, really difficult when we're sitting there with a Greek
Bible, because it's, it's going to be no matter what, it's going to be somebody's interpretation
of that. And that interpretation is going to be just as reliant on the structures of language,
the ideas, the vocabulary that that person has, both the initial receiver of it or the
initial translator of it, whatever, like, all of those things are going to rely on so much on
what's going on inside the heads of the person or people there, that that it's just,
yeah, it's just, it's just silly to go around and argue about whether it was exactly this
that was said. Like, I think, like, one of the things is, you know, even the Lord's Prayer,
right, shows up in Luke and in Matthew, and it's slightly different. And, and that's like, for me,
is a is a really great example of it that that I mean, yes, or probably there was like,
there was this prayer that was associated with Jesus, and, and it was had these basic structures,
but it, it probably wasn't said exactly the same every time, maybe it was said exactly the same
every time, but people didn't hear it the same every time, because they didn't reproduce it the
same. And so that's like, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, so, so going back a little bit,
we have the four Gospels, which tell the story of life, death and resurrection of Jesus,
originally recorded, were originally oral traditions, right? And you say traditions.
I'm trying to throw in too many questions. But first of all, what do you mean by traditions?
And secondly, what do you take on the whole, what is your perspective on the Gospel writers?
Who were they? Were they anonymous? Is that just an atheist talking point? You know, or is it,
is it, is it like, is it something that? Are you, how confident are you that the Matthew,
Mark, Luke and John were actually written by the Gospel authors or not by the, by the disciples?
Sorry. Oh, God, I thought I was going to, wasn't going to bring in too many questions, but that's
all right. Yeah. So what was the first thing you asked? So what do you mean by traditions?
So, oh, yeah. So, what are you, so when I use the word tradition, I'm using it to not
indicate whether they have to be oral or written sources. So I think the, the, I mean, and also
to not be judgmental, I guess, like I, so when I, when you talk about a tradition, you can say,
you can talk about it as something being oral or something being written. You can talk about
as being sayings of someone or stories about them. You can, you can place it in an individual
context or in a collective context. And so it kind of gives this opening for saying that,
that there is something behind it that is being transmitted. And then whether or not they are,
yeah, they're, whether or not they have this kind of packaging that, that limits them to a certain
thing is, is irrelevant, honestly. Like I, I would just say that when we, when we move from a time of
say 30 AD to 70 AD, when these things are actually being written down, then, then something has moved.
And how much of it was made up in 70 AD to, to make the narrative work and to tell the story? How
much of it was, you know, developed over time? How much of it actually goes back to Jesus? Like
that's, that's a completely different thing. But, but there is something that is being transmitted
between people. And that, that's what I would call traditions. So it's, it's just the, the stories,
words, tales, whatever. And, and then it's like, I don't care if they're true or not. They're just,
that's what's being transmitted. It's, it's kind of neutral in that way.
So people might not like that. I mean, I guess like from the, I can hear, I can hear the, the
former fundamentalist in me screaming, like, yeah, but just by saying it's neutral, instead of saying
it's the truth that you're, you're, you're already sinning or whatever. But, but like, yeah, that's,
I'm trying, I'm trying not to, to say that nothing can be true is, is also the thing. Like I don't
like to, I don't like to go too far in that direction either to say that nobody could have
remembered anything and everything's completely made up. Like I think that's, that's a little
silly as well. Like there's, there's probably stuff that, that, that has some, you know,
historical value just in the same way as the stories that we tell about the, you know, the
Civil War, the World War I or two or whatever that, that like, there's, there's probably something
too, a lot of things, but like, it doesn't, it doesn't really matter to me because to get to
your second point, because I think that the Gospels are in literature. And so for me, it's,
I mean, I also think this is a non-negotiable point, honestly, but it's just one that people
usually just hop over, but, but they're literature. It's, it's literature. It's written down. It's,
it's writings. And, and so what those writings are can be discussed, but you can't discuss if
they're writings, right? And, and so I, I mean, I really like, like Robin Pate Walsh's take and,
and the kind of this growing consensus really in, in scholarship that, that we should look at the
Gospel as early Christian writings, right? So it's, it's, that's something different than saying
that these are the eyewitness accounts of the Gospel writers. Like that, that's a very normative
statement. But to say that something is, is, is literature, then that begs the question, well,
who can write such a thing? And, and so, and what, what Robin does, which is really interesting,
is kind of dissect this and say, where in the Roman world do you find this kind of writers? And,
and the answer is you don't find them everywhere, right? And you especially don't find them among
fishermen in the Galilee. And so, like, I think that's, that's, that's a, it's a really strong
argument, because what, like, there's no denying that, that these Gospels that we have are legible,
legible Greek. They, of course, it's varying, varying levels of, of Greek, but like, it's not,
it's, it's not a problem to read the Gospels in Greek. And, and so, like, sure, they're not,
they're not the, they're, like, they, I guess they, they don't reflect, all of them don't
reflect like court level, whatever, high level Greek, but they're, but they're good. And, and
they tell the, they tell the story. And so they're, they must have been written by somebody who was,
was educated and well read in the Greek in a way that at least the any indication that we have
of the Gospels, of the, of the, of the disciples having that kind of education is, is lacking.
So it's, it, I don't personally think that there's any, any argument really for
the traditional writers having been the authors of the, of the Gospels. I think that that's something
that is just so easily explained by the need for connecting writings to tradition and try to try
and strengthen this, the truth claims within the church context. But I mean, especially, you know,
because I come more from the Jewish literature side of things that we see so much pseudopigraphy.
We see so much writing in the name of others or pretending even to be someone else within that
context that it's just like, it, it, you, you don't, like, you didn't have to pretend even to,
to be yourself to, to get away with it. It didn't matter. Like, and so I think there's, for me,
a pretty big, a pretty big problem when we say that something has to, has to be written by this
person or be done in this way in order to accept the arguments we're making about it. And so that's
again why I like to think of the Gospels as literature because, you know, it's, it's only,
and so when you compare the Gospels, like if you take like something like the synoptic problem,
right, of how do we, how do we deal with these Gospels being so similar, but yet some different
and what are the sources and all that, like it's a big problem if you assume that we have four Gospels
written by eyewitnesses. Because why on earth would they copy Mark? No, no, no, it just happened.
Everything happened like that. But then it didn't quite happen like that. But then, and you get all
these negotiations with text that are problematic. If you look at his literature and they're like,
well, obviously, this guy made the scheme that everybody else is using. And then you've got
somebody, you know, filling in the gaps here and changing a little bit. And then you get these
editions and, and it's, and it's all fine. Like, it's, there's, there's no, that you lose nothing
if somebody comes as, well, hey, wait a minute, what if that, and you think, Oh, well, that's even
better explanation for that problem. So, all right, let's go with that. Like, you don't have to say,
but then that eyewitness was stupid or deceptive or whatever. Yeah, cunning. Like, yeah. Yeah. And
you don't need to go into memory studies and try and explain like why their memories would change
over time. And all this kind of stuff. You can just say like, yeah, but they just wrote a different
version, dude, it's fine. Like, yeah. Well, it's, it's actually interesting that you have these stories
that you don't understand, like, in our context, we don't fully understand the, the
the importance of what's being said. So for example, I think Derek, Derek called me up
ranting about this the other day, he was, you know, we're just talking about stuff. And he was just
talking about how in Matthew, I think it is, this is secondhand information from Derek who's
getting it from someone else. So bear with me. But the stole, the stone in Jesus' tomb isn't
rolled away. But there is someone standing there saying, Jesus is not there, then they roll the
stone away, and then Jesus isn't in there. And that's just like, well, whatever, that's just
like, that's different to the other Gospels. But like, who cares? It's a similar thing. There's an
empty tomb. But what someone who Derek is referencing is arguing is that in the Greek world,
someone was made a God when they were, when they were physical, but then they could,
but they could also move through solid objects. That was like a sign that they were a God. So
Matthew is actually like, wink, wink, nudge, nudging to his audience, like, oh, this Jesus
could, is the son of God, or it might be Matthew, could be not the Gospel. And I don't know, I don't
know about that. And I'm probably getting some information wrong. But it was an interesting
kind of idea that we don't actually know, forget about the languages for a second, we don't even
know what like, is really being said unless, well, you probably do, but a lot of people don't.
Like if I say, I was in my car, I was flying down the road, we know what I mean, you know what I
was talking about, I was probably speeding in my car. But if, you know, 1000 years from now,
someone doesn't understand the concept, like what do you mean flying, they had flying cars back
then, like, you know, so, so these things matter. But something I wanted to kind of touch back on
is you mentioned the civil war. And this is I'm going to put on my fundamentals hat, I'm going to
challenge you just briefly. But so the civil war, we probably have, I don't know enough about it,
I don't know anything about American history to be honest, because I grew up in Australia. But
the civil war, I'm sure there are lots of, I'm sure there are a lot of stories of like,
you know, legendary accounts of like, you know, soldiers or doing miraculous things or crazy
stunts or something right in this war. And they may or may not be true, they may be, but some
might be completely false, made up or embellished. But you would never argue that there wasn't a civil
war. So what a Christian might say, and what I might say is a fundamentalist Dave here, I might
say, well, yes, there's muddy details all over the place. But they all tell the story about,
you know, a person born of a virgin, well, Mark doesn't, but born does some miracles, dies,
yeah, ties around resurrects, right, we all, and that's this, that's the point. So what do you
say to someone who says like, well, they all say the same thing. This person died and resurrected
and he's now the son of God. So what do you say to someone who says, yes, all these details might
be muddy, but the main point still stands. And in fact, it's even more, it's even, it's even more
evidence that the main point did actually happen, because they all agree on those points, right.
Well, I mean, so I guess there's a couple of things there, like one thing I wouldn't say that
you can talk about one individual's life at the same level as you would like the civil war,
like, okay, I think we can agree that the Roman Empire happened. And that would be more like
comparable for me to say, you know, so it's like, but that's the thing that happens a lot of times
is that like, you can get into discussions with people about things like that, like, oh, the
memory of the civil war and the memory of Jesus, it must be the same. And it's like, okay, sure, like,
yeah, but, but at the end of the day, like, you have hundreds of thousands of millions of people
that experience the civil war and experience different aspects of it. And so when they tell
a story, those stories are probably going to be relatable for people in other places and be able
to say, yeah, yeah, that was something similar to what happened with me or these, and it's all
relatable. And, and so like, I would say that those kind of legendary tales of people or whatever
are actually more similar to, to the story of Jesus, right, because it would be that, that you
have a similar world, a similar worldview that's going on. And then when people say, hey, this
happened with this guy down in town in Judah or whatever, everybody's like, yeah, cool. I mean,
it's relatable. It makes sense. Like, nobody needs to check the facts, not because everybody agrees
that it happened, but because your worldview accepts that this is something that would have happened.
And, and, and so some of the, you know, the placement of it is all, is all there. But it's
not actually a comparable thing to say that, hey, we remember the civil war. Like, it's more like,
hey, you know, was Abraham Lincoln exactly like every depiction that of him?
Yeah. Was he a vampire hunter?
Right. Was he a vampire hunter? You know, and, and, you know, did he, did he actually win the,
the great war, you know, things like that. But, but what, so, so I think that's like where we,
we tend to get confused. Like we, we just tend to, to try and equate things that, that both
are problematic. And on the one hand, because like, we just have a lot more records of the
civil war than we do of Jesus. And, and so it's like, it's not really, it's not really relatable.
And, and to that, it's just like the individual details of an individual's life is something
very, very different than the broad view that something happened, like in broad terms. And so
that's something I've talked about before that like, one of the biggest problems is, is scope,
right. And so like we, we tend to, as historians, like we look, when we're looking at, at something
that happened in the past, like the bigger the scope, the easier it is to say that it happened.
And so like, we're, I feel, I feel very confident that Egypt had a culture in the past.
Okay. I'm very confident that, that the Babylonians were also had a culture in the past. And, and,
and so I feel very confident as a historian to say that. I also feel very confident to say that
the Egyptians had a very early culture for, for writing and for, say, burying their dead in, in
grand places and that they build pyramids. But when we start to say like, now which king was
when, I feel like even though we have pretty good records from, from some antique sources,
it's already there. It's a bit more difficult to say like, because these sources are reliant on an
understanding of Egyptian history that comes like some, from Herodotus or some, you know,
Greek historian or something like that. And, and so we don't know always whether this king was,
was actually that king. There's some places where we're pretty clear because we have many
sources, like we have inscriptions that name someone. And then we have, you know, they can relate
them to their parents or to their children, we can reconstruct it pretty good. And then we have
other places where we're kind of like, what happened here? Like, what is this, what is this
period intervening period here? Like, what really happened? Who was really there? And so we can end
up with these questions like, okay, okay, what exactly happened during this time? And sometimes
we don't know. And, and that's okay. Like as a historian, your goal isn't to say we know everything,
but it's rather to say what we do know in a structured way. And so like, and the closer
you get to an individual's life and their actual deeds, the less likely we are to, to be getting
it right. And so it's like, you know, take a big old picture and, and it can look really, really
clear, but the more you zoom in, the more pixelated it gets. Yeah. Yeah. It's like, you could say that
a king reigned probably from these two dates. But did he like take a sword, a golden sword and
slaughter 500 men on his own? Like, that story is a bit like out there. So it's like, you know,
even though a couple of people tell it, it's like, what are the chances of someone doing that?
Do they have Moses for doing that first telling that story? Right.
So what, so I'd love to ask, what are some common misunderstandings about translations?
Yeah, I mean, I guess the, the big one is probably the reason we're having this discussion is just
that a translation can be true or right or correct or, or something like that. I think is the, is
the biggest thing out there that, that irks me, you know, that like, I, and this, this happens
also, like, it happens from both ends of the spectrum. Like, you know, you hear a lot of,
of scholars, like they only use the NRSV or whatever, because that's the, the best translation,
like, yeah, okay, sure. It's the, it's the, it's the trend, the, the new revised standard version
is the one that will probably get you closest to the word for word reading of a, of a passage
and help you identify what Greek or Hebrew word is behind what you're reading. Sure. But that
doesn't mean it's the best. Like it, it a lot of times maybe doesn't could like convey the sense
over a phrase or over a, over a whole passage that, that is, is most communicative to the reader.
And so that's why we have other things, you know, like the NIV or the ESV or, you know,
all these other translations. And, and I mean, you can go as far as like the message and the
living by one of these things that are like really paraphrasing everything. Like, I don't
have a problem with that either. Like, because they're, they're trying to say, what's, what's the
sense? And how do you bring that into our context? Because it has to happen somewhere, right? This
contextualization, this interpretation has to happen somewhere. And so like, when you say, well,
Jesus, you know, said this or did that, and people say, Oh, well, you know, if you read it in the
best translation, that's going to be, it's going to be telling you exactly what the Greek says. But
sometimes it's so jarbled and jumbled that you don't understand what really happens.
So like my, I mean, my, my feeling is that one of the things we, we tend to forget is,
is just that, yeah, that, that fact that people do automatically try to make sense of what they're
reading or hearing or stuff like that. And then they're going to be using their cultural clues or
whatever to fill it in. I mean, and that's part of the reason why we study ancient languages when
we study, you know, when you study theology or whatever, you know, traditionally is that, you
know, if you, if you understand Hebrew and Greek and Latin and Syriac and all the, all these languages
that have sources that you're reading, you, you have a better chance of, of kind of filling in
these gaps with, with something that's relatable, but you're still so far removed that you need to
do it critically. Well, let us, let's, let's dive into this little bit with Genesis 11. Let's go
to the start of the Bible. Okay. So I was a young earth creationist at one stage. I believe that
the earth was created in seven literal 24 hour days. It wasn't like super strong on that, but
that's what I was taught. That's why I just generally accepted, which is funny because it
wasn't the sun created like three days. Anyway, we're going to go into that when this is on the
young earth creationist moment, but you know, Genesis 11 says, in the beginning,
God created the heavens and the earth is like the transition that I know. Can you talk about
how that can be translated differently? Yeah. So I mean, this is, this is a fun, a fun thing. And,
and for me, it's especially, it's an especially relevant thing because I, I, I started off my career
in, in, with studying theology and I did Hebrew and Greek first. And then like, I, I was actually,
I was, I was really annoyed by the fact that I didn't learn more. When I did Hebrew and Greek,
and the teachers would kind of say, it is what it is when I would ask questions. And I mean,
we didn't say that back then. But it was also in Norwegian, they said it different. But, you know,
so exactly. That's a really good example of what we've been talking about. Like, what, what,
what I say for this Norwegian phrase, we say that all the time. It, it, that's just what it is.
That's just, but, but like now after this, it is what it is became popular in English that I have
a perfect translation for this phrase that I never could say in English. But I wouldn't have known that,
you know, 20 years ago. So it's, it's funny that I've updated the translation of this experience.
So, and I knew exactly what I was pointing to, but now I have it. Yeah. Anyway, so I had done this.
I had done Hebrew and Greek and all that kind of stuff. And I, and I got inspired to learn more
about linguistics. And that's how I got into linguistics was really just people telling me,
you've got to accept it about grammar. And, and I thought that was just a horrible thing is to go
around saying, we just, we just don't have a good answer for you. And like, and I'm not,
and it wasn't sure whether they didn't have a good answer, whether there was no answer, what, you
know, and so I was like, there's got to be an answer to this. And there was like, oh, linguistics.
And, and I mean, I'll tell you, like, the, probably the most religious experience I've had,
and one of the top three most religious experiences I've had in my life was my first
lecture in linguistics that I went to. And, and this professor, basically, like he gave his
introductory lecture about languages and dialects and change and all that. And he kind of changed
his dialects throughout the thing and moved his way like through Norway and Norwegian dialects
in Sweden and Denmark and did this amazing thing. I sat there like in awe. Like it was, I mean,
it was for me, like watching someone completely inspired by God, you know, doing something.
So it was obviously inspired by, by the Holy Spirit and that's speaking in tongues or whatever.
But, but it was literally, but, but it was like, it was so cool. I wasn't, I mean, so I don't mean
it's serious. I didn't think about God very much at that moment. I was thinking about how awesome
it was. Like, it was just, it was all struck. And it was like, this is so cool. I have to learn
everything about this. And, and so I did linguistics and did all the basics of linguistics
and all that kind of stuff. And then you have to also do some training in specific languages.
That's where the structure is here at the University of Oslo. And so one of the languages I took was
modern Hebrew because I'd done biblical Hebrew. And so we did modern Hebrew as spoken in Israel.
And, and we went through this whole long year of modern Hebrew and, you know, we did our
conversations and all this kind of kind of stuff. And at the end of the year, one of the last
lectures, the teacher said, oh, now we're going to do something fun. We're going to,
we're going to sit down and read some biblical Hebrew and just show you guys that you,
you know how to read biblical Hebrew already and how fun it is. And, and I had already done
years of biblical Hebrew. So I was like, oh, this is going to be easy. But everybody else shows up,
you know, and the first thing we do is read from Genesis one. And, and then you read,
and everybody's like, wait, what? What, what does it say? Oh my, what? And everybody's in shock
because the first word is, is, which means in a beginning. It's, it's indefinite. It's not the
definite in the beginning. And so when, when you, when you read straightforward, you know, it says
in a beginning and everybody's like, wait, what? There's got to be something wrong. It's printed
wrong. And the teacher's like, nope. This is, that's what it says. Like it's, it's an indefinite,
it's an indefinite word. And the room, yeah, it was in shock. Everybody's like, what? And,
and so it, you know, it starts a lot of discussions. And so that was a great moment
to be kind of witnessed people who had spent a year learning Hebrew to, to get there and then
read it and be like, oh my gosh, that's what the verse actually says. And so, and so that's, I mean,
and so that's what it says, right? And when you read straightforward, if you read that word alone,
in the beginning, then it's not in the beginning, it's in a beginning is what it says in it. And so
that is why some people will say, well, you know, the first, first in the Bible is just,
is just wrong in most translations, not in the beginning, but it's in a beginning or something
like that. So that's, and that's, that's, that's the, like, that's the first level of this. So
that's that, I mean, and on a straightforward reading of someone who's reading only that word,
it's, that's how you would translate it. Now, there's, there's a couple of different, like,
this is a really, a really difficult translation issue, actually, when we get into it.
Because there's a couple of different ways you can look at it. And one of the things is that you
can, you have to look at words in the context that they're in, not just isolated. And so this,
this word that's in isolation, that's an indefinite word, if you read it in the context of the entire
phrase, could be imagined as being dependent on the phrase that follows it. And, and then it
wouldn't be just in a beginning, but it would be in the beginning of the creation of the heavens
and the earth, or something like that. And, and so that would be, that's one of the solutions that,
that some scholars come up with, is that it's not in the beginning, but it's in the beginning of
the creation of the heavens and the earth, or in the beginning of God's creating the heavens and
the earth, or when God created the heavens and the earth, and something like that, that they make it
a temporal phrase. So it's explaining the when of the phrases that come after. And, and so that,
that's one way of looking at it. I think most scholars that, that go that way, look to Genesis
2.4, and, and maybe a couple other places, like, because on Genesis 2.4, then it basically says
on, so it says on the day of God's making the heavens and the earth, or something like that.
It uses a different verb for creation, uses a different, but it also uses a different verb
form. And so that's why I'm, I'm not 100% convinced by the temporal clause explanation, like that
in the beginning of God's creating the heavens and the earth, blah, blah, blah. It might be,
it might be like that. But, but honestly, David, there's also a simpler explanation,
because in Hebrew, the problem here is that in Hebrew, you don't have vowels written in the
consonant text, right? You just have the consonants themselves. And the difference between the
definite and the indefinite is only the vowel. And so, like, when you look at the text without
vowels, which we had all the way up until the, the Maserids put it on there and say five, six,
seven hundreds, whatever, that you wouldn't, you wouldn't be able to distinguish the definite
from the indefinite. And so there's no way of, of us actually being certain that the Maserids got
that exactly right by saying that it was like a instead of an, it's a very small detail. You
would think they would, they would have rather corrected it in favor of it reading in the beginning
and not in a beginning or whatever, the more difficult seems like the more difficult way of
reading it. But, but it could just be the difference of like a stroke of a pet, you know. And, and so
I don't feel, I don't feel like it's a very big deal, because I think that it's either way you
look at it like we're, it's, it's, it's, it's part of a, or you have to explain it away somehow,
like it's not, it's not the obvious reading, the obvious reading isn't what you see on the paper.
Yeah. It's interesting though, because we're at verse one of chapter one, a book one of 66 books
of the Bible. Are there any other areas where you think are just, are just like overflowing
with theological perspectives that you don't think the original Hebrew or Greek
or any other language that might be in there that I don't know of is not actually saying?
Like you, you're thinking I can translation? Yeah. Like, like, well, I know, for example,
you know, Jews have the same Old Testament mostly for the most part, but they definitely don't see
Jesus as the Messiah. And so there are some arguments that, that some, some Christian Bibles
are giving you a bit of flair to some of the language of the Old Testament to make it fit Jesus a
little bit better. Yeah. Are there any other examples or do you have examples of that or
that you think that English translations of the Bible are just, are just like being a little dishonest
in some areas? Yeah. Well, I mean, I guess one, gosh, like, it's funny, the only examples like
come to mind are all this Norwegian stuff. Like, I have a, I have a good friend who,
who's named Morton Beckman, who, who's written a lot about this in Norwegian. And actually,
his whole PhD was about how the Norwegian Bible society, like, like, systematically
changed vocabulary to make it more doctrinal and more, more, like, friendly and how things even,
like, you could trace like that the original translators would, would get it like this far
and then the committee, theological committee or whatever would be like, nah, we can't, can't use
that and, and toss stuff out, you know. And, and so like, it's, I think one of the, one of the big
things though that, that kind of, yeah, that, that I see a lot of that I get,
I don't know, I get like frustrated about is there is like words like salvation or saving or,
you know, things like that, that's very much connected to like, soteriology or the, like,
the salvation in the, in the eternal sense is like read into the Old Testament when, when the,
when the words that are being used are more like being helped or, you know, being like, like,
saved from danger, like immediate danger, like there, it's not like the idea of this eternal
salvation is not there at all in the Old Testament and in the way I think we've talked about this
before actually and, and, and a lot of verses that talk about saving smell or taste like they're,
they're that kind of Christian eternal salvation when, when really what's being talked about is
like, I'm about to die, please help me. It's not please save me from eternal torment. No,
don't let that guy kill me. And, and so I think that's like, that's where one of those things
you see it and, and like, I can, I can feel like my, you know, my, I don't know what the,
what do we say, like, feel like, yeah. You do my, you better flip the table over kind of thing.
Like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Like Jesus, oh, have you seen that meme for the, like, Jesus
flipping the tables in the, in the, in the temple? And it's like Jesus doing a back flip off the
temple off the table. Right. It's like, that's the, but anyway. Yeah. So I mean, and there's,
but there's all kinds of things. I mean, and also this stuff like related to things like,
you know, sexuality, things like that, where, where they're often like the words that are used
are, aren't, aren't what our modern usage is. And so it's like, but it's also it's a really hard
thing. Like how do you, how do you talk about sexuality in antiquity when, when, when it was
different? Like when things were seen differently and understood differently and were used differently.
And so like you throw in a word and people will automatically assume that they understand what
it meant, but they don't necessarily know what, what the, what the ancients meant by it.
In Romans one, 26 to 27, I was on Skeptic Haven. I'm a co-host there now. We're talking about,
you know, unnatural, not, you know, women giving up roles that are natural roles for unnatural
roles. And, and Jennifer, Dr. Jennifer Byrd said that there's a skull that she knows of who says
we could consider this like women's essentially putting on strap ons to amily pleasure.
And I lost my mind. I was like, as archeology discovered any of these like ancient dildos,
like it's like, this was so entertaining for me. You can tell my maturity level, but so
well, you really strike me as someone who's, you don't have like a, a dog in this fight in regards
to the atheist or fundamentalist or you're not, you're not like Matt Monger, the, the
super Christian or the super atheist. So you're just a Bible scholar. Well, at a linguist and
someone who really loves these texts. So I want to ask you about this briefly, Isaiah 53.
People, atheists tell me that it has nothing to do with Jesus and the Messiah. And because,
you know, the other areas of the Isaiah, the suffering servant is Israel. And then I have
Christians who say the opposite and, you know, and so what is your take on Isaiah 53?
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, there's, it's in 30 seconds. 30 seconds. No. So I, for me, the whole, the whole
suffering servant thing, it, it, it again, like it's literature and, and it's literature that was
produced a certain period in time. And it has to make sense in that period of time, if it's going
to make sense in general, if it's going to be kept, it's going to be used. And so I don't buy
into anything that, that would say that that that's a prophecy about Jesus or something like that.
I think if anything, the Gospels can use that imagery to depict Jesus in a certain way to make
it into something that, that is, is fulfilled or whatever. So there's just no, there's no,
it doesn't make, I don't, it doesn't make any sense to me. We're talking about, I think we're
talking about, it's Israel. It's like imagery of Israel. And, and this is God's suffering
servant that's been punished and has been redeemed. And, and like, it's, that's, I mean, that, it makes,
it makes perfect sense. And that's a Jewish interpretation that's, that's there. And so I,
like, I don't mind the appropriation of Jewish or appropriation of texts. Like, that's what
Christians do, right? That's the, the Christian, that's what the New Testament is doing is
appropriating the Jewish texts, or they're taking these Jewish texts and, and giving them
a new interpretation. And, and that's fine. But that's, that's what they are, is they're
making a new interpretation of something that, that wasn't problematic until this new interpretation
was thrown in there, that, that was Jesus instead of anything else. Yeah. Yeah. I feel like, I feel
like what would be really interesting, actually, is if we got you and some other linguists and
Bible scholars who actually like do just a full stream on Isaiah 53 and just like talk about the
nuances there, because I think that is something that you could just dive into for ages, because
that's like the linchpin, right, of the Old Testament, that's like big linchpin of the Old
Testament scriptures. But yeah, I mean, for, for a Christian, it's, yeah, yeah, linchpin for,
for, for a Jew. And that's the, like, that's the thing that I think is funny is that there's,
like, we have these passages that, that makes sense when you read, read the Old Testament as,
as the Old Testament, then, or, then you're doing something. I mean, so when I say you're reading
as the Old Testament, you read as a Christian, right? And so when you read the Old Testament,
as, as the Christian Old Testament, then there are going to be things you're like, well, no,
that's important. That's important. That's important. And then if you read it as a, as the
Hebrew Bible or as a Jewish text, then it's going to be completely different things that
are the important moments. And that's, and that's, obviously, that's the interpretive lens that you're
using. But I don't like, I don't think that we can say the original meaning of that text was to be
a prophecy. I think it was appropriate to be a prophecy later. Yeah. There's, there's a lot of
Twitter people who tell me, or there was one Twitter person recently who told me that
I think it was something along the lines of like, Judaism rejects the Old Testament God because
they reject Christianity. Like, and I was like, and so I tweeted back and I said, Christians reject
the Christian God because they reject Mormonism. So it's like, it's, you know, it just doesn't,
it doesn't seem to make sense. Yeah, it's like, Marcien would like a word. Like, that's, yeah,
yeah, exactly. I'm asking them to know that old chestnut. So, so I've been doing a lot of, we've
only got 20 minutes left. So if anyone's got any super chats, or a big question, I've got some
questions from patrons as well, but I don't know if we'll be able to get to them, but we've got
20 minutes because you've got to go teach class on Apocalypse in the Bible. But I wanted to touch
a little bit on the King James Bible and other translations of the Bible. A lot of people,
including, you know, some of my friends and family will say that the King James Bible is the perfect,
ignorant word of God. And as we've already discussed, there's problems there already,
in just like that assumption. But in regards to the manuscripts that the King James used,
and what we have today, what are the differences? Have we discovered earlier manuscripts? Are they,
are they better manuscripts? Like, give us a little bit of an introduction to that.
Yeah, so when it comes to the Old Testament, deal with that first. There's not a huge difference.
The King James Bible uses, probably used the second rabbinic Bible, what we call it, as a source.
And, and while there, I mean, after the Dead Sea Scrolls have been found, we found that there's a
lot more variation to the ancient texts than what they were aware of at that time. I think that,
like, the textual basis of it isn't that different than what we're using. So it's that it's actually
more translation technique and things like that knowledge of the Hebrew language, that sort of
stuff, is what you would see a difference in Hebrew. Now, when we, when we look at the New
Testament, the situation is very different. The text that was used was, was based on, on Erasmus's
edition of the, of the Greek New Testament, which was, I guess, what we call it, the Textus
Receptus, and it was used, it used, I don't know, a few 12th, 11th, 12th century manuscripts as a
source. And, and basically, like, our understanding of, of the earlier traditions is just radically,
radically different now. There are, I guess, there's a few hundred fragments of, of Greek texts now
from, from before the year 1000. Three, probably, I don't know, three, four hundred, something like
that. And, and of those, we have a few, like, complete New Testaments. There's not a lot, like,
and that's the other thing, like, you have to be, you have to be careful that when I painting this
picture, and there's some grand terms that we have all these amazingly old things, but we have
some things that are much, much older than what Erasmus had, or which are the translators of the,
of the King James Bible had. And so what we, what we have is a situation where we went from kind of
having a few manuscripts that were very closely related to having a broad understanding that
there were a lot more manuscripts in antiquity, and that they were more different from each other
than, than what they would have known at that time. And, and so some of the oldest stuff we have
is also the stuff that varies most from the textual basis that they had for the King James Bible.
And, and that's been one of those big discussions, especially more in recent years, like when, when
you have people that, like, go in for the King James only is some, and the, and the kind of the
looking to say that that's the best, the best manuscript or whatever the best basis for translating
the Bible is that being older doesn't necessarily mean better, right? And so we don't have, it doesn't
have to be the best manuscripts just because of the oldest. But at the same time, the fact that,
that we have very few witnesses to this other type of, of manuscript from, from the early period
probably shows that that's something that develops and solidifies at a later time.
And so basically what, what, what you end up with is that we have three or four really,
really, really good witnesses to the New Testament that are early that pretty much all agree that
there are certain things that are just not the same in those later manuscripts that were used
for the King James version. And so, like, what, what has happened since then is that scholars
have kind of developed a, what we call an eclectic edition of the, of the Greek text by kind of sewing
together the best readings of each of the, each of the pieces that we have. And that looks pretty
different than what, what the, what the scholars using the, the translating the King James version
or versions between 1600 and say 1880, they were using completely different texts. And so there's
these guys, Westcott and Hort, who basically in the late 1800s start this tradition of saying here
are the best readings we have. And that kind of continues up to today where we have this,
this scholarly version of the Greek, the New Testament that shows us all the
ancient manuscripts that have each particular reading. And there's thousands and thousands
and thousands and thousands of variations. And, and so, like, what we have now is, is much closer
for any individual phrase to the earliest known version of that phrase, we could say like that.
So, like, each verse, you will find notes that tell you where things are, but sometimes, like,
one verse will not exist in the earliest version that we think existed in any manuscript,
but it's just kind of pieced together from the earliest readings of different phrases from stuff.
And so, like, when it goes that far, I'm also pretty skeptical of that kind of methodology,
actually. So, like, I, I would be more interested in reading what the earliest manuscripts say as a
whole, rather than piecing together what might be the earliest reading of this or that or the other,
because if they were never transmitted altogether, then it doesn't help, like, it doesn't help me
understand what's going on. I'm more interested in kind of what was physically available. But,
but what we have is a much better understanding of how the earliest manuscripts read than,
than they did in the 17, 16, 15, 1600s. And, and I mean, and some of it's not a big deal. I mean,
or a lot of it's not a big deal, right? There's some, some phraseology or there's some, you know,
some, some words that, that probably are synonymous or nearly synonymous or there's grammatical things
and stuff like that. But then there's also some stuff, like, I mean, there's the, the, there's
these two big passages, right, that, that are just, that are not there in, in the earliest
manuscripts. That's the, the end of Mark, right? So Mark, what, nine to chapter 16, nine to 20,
or whatever, which is like the appearance of Jesus after the resurrection. It's like,
it's not there in the earliest ones. And so we, you, you can't find it. And so that makes it a
really interesting thing because it's there in the later ones. And you're asking what, what, how
did this happen? What, what was it? And then there's this, the text and John eight, whatever, where
the, the, the 753 to 853 to 11 or whatever. Yeah. The woman caught in adultery, which, which also
is just isn't there in the, in the earliest set. That is the biggest, that's a, that's a huge thing.
Every Bible says this, every, every Bible movie, every Jesus movie ever seen always has that woman
caught in adultery scene because it's like, it's, it's, it's how we envision Jesus for the, for the
most part. And you say, and that's not in, that's not in the old Testament. I mean, sorry, not in
the original manuscripts, right? Well, original. I mean, what's original? So I don't, it's not in
the oldest manuscripts that we have, right? Yeah. Yeah. And, but do we have, like, do we have, like,
full chapters of those manuscripts, or is it just like a part of this one doesn't include that or a
part like, right? And so this, and this is a, like, this is one of my favorite talking points,
I think. Like, so, I mean, so one of the things that people like to say is, oh, we have 5,800 or
we have 10,000 or we have, you know, whatever, 12,000 manuscripts now of the New Testament. Well,
like, when you, when you actually look at it, like, before the year 1000, I really, I think, like,
we have, like, I think there's like 350 manuscripts that we call it manuscripts of, of the, of the
New Testament. And, and when you, when you look at those, there's like, four that are complete
New Testaments. Like, there's a bunch of Gospels, and by a bunch, maybe like 15 or 20 or something
like that. And then, like, you have some individual letters of Paul, some collections of Paul, some,
some things that are here or there. But like, the vast majority of stuff is, is very fragmentary.
And, and anything prior to the, say, I would say the 300s, the late 300s, early 400s, anything
prior to that is very, very fragmentary. Like, we don't have, we don't have these, like, we don't
have copies. It's just fragments. And some of them are like, itty-bitty fragments.
Like credit card size. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I think 52 is the earliest, right?
Yeah, exactly. Yeah.
And, and, and a lot of them are like that. And so I think it's, it's funny when people throw out the
word manuscript as though it's a really convincing thing, because it's, if it's a really big deal.
Because like, having a few words and being able to say, well, look, these words are almost identical
to what we find in later manuscripts. And then you're like, well, okay, great. Like, it's, it,
you know, that's good. But it, it doesn't help us really navigate the, the intricacies of,
of the transmission of the texts when we just have little tiny bits here and there.
So I'm, I think that like the, you know, the generations past were really
positivistic about that. They were really optimistic about the ability to use methodology
to recreate what the text actually said, where I'm more interested in the texts that were actually
being transmitted and how they, in a way, how they differ, I guess, from me, from each other.
In, in, like, I mean, I think it's, well, I can give you an example, actually. I don't,
I don't do this a lot, but I'll give you an example. I just, like, literally just got this,
this book today, just showed up in my mailbox. And I have an article here that just came out.
And it's actually, it's on Gospel of Thomas. And in, it's your, it's your article. Yeah,
I wrote it, literally. Yeah, nice. Wow. I don't know how to hold it so you can see it. But anyway,
so it's on the Gospel of Thomas. And in this saying, so the book is, is a, is a project that
some of my colleagues did, and I took part in on the Delphic maxim of know thyself, right? And,
and how it shows up in, in antiquity in different texts. And so I wrote on the Gospel of Thomas,
because in the Gospel of Thomas, in the, in saying number three, Jesus says, says,
the kingdom of God is within you. And he who knows himself will know God. Right. And so then it's
like, it's playing on the Delphic maxim, but it's also playing on that, the kingdom of God is within
you, right? And which is then in English often translated as the kingdom of God is among you,
because it's really a problem to say it's within you in like the biblical sense. I guess people
didn't like that. So they wanted it to be it's among you. So that's a theological translation,
right? But, but what I found when I looked at this text is that there's literally only two manuscripts
of the Gospel of Thomas chapter three, ones in Greek and one in Coptic, and they say different
things. And so the one is more kind of like, it's within you and you should, you know, search
yourself and know God. And the other is like, if you, the kingdom of God is within you, and if you
know your, he who knows himself will be known, and we'll find the kingdom. And so then it's this
like reciprocity with God, and that's something we find in Paul, that's more like kind of,
it's not about knowing yourself, and that's where God is, but it's knowing yourself, and then God
knows you, and then it's like, it's a different thing. And, and, and like literally, that we only
have two manuscripts, and they're different. And they're different enough that they say
something interesting about the climate and the context that they're, that they're being used in.
And so like, I think that's, I think that's, that's the whole point of this issue of manuscripts
and, and translation is that like, we, what we have is sometimes just a historical
happenstance, like we, we don't always know
why we have the manuscripts we have, or, or there's no like teleological, like an aim
to the manuscripts for which, which we have access, like there's, they're just, they're,
some of it's just random thrown in the trash in the desert in Egypt, and that's why we have
access to it. Some of them have been sitting on a, you know, in a monastery or whatever,
and we just happen to find it. And so like, we, what we should be interested in, what I think
we should be interested in is, is what the context of these things actually are in the, in the time
they're being used and how people are relating to these specific differences between those
manuscripts and other, other versions, other manuscripts, like what, what does it say about
this manuscript's time and place and use and theology and, and interests, rather than saying,
like, this is the original blah, blah, blah, like, because I don't know if we can ever figure that
out. But it's interesting to know that that John seven to eight thing, it gets put in. Like,
I think that's a super interesting question. Like, what are the earliest contexts we find
this? Why, why is this suddenly included? What is the, you know, what are the contexts where it
was in use? And I think that's a very fun thing to think about, rather than thinking like, oh,
what's, you know, what's original? Yeah. Wow. That Oh, this is so exciting. This is so exciting
talking to you. I've got two questions from patron. And we've, and I'll try, we'll try and get
through both of both questions. But this might be quick one. This is from nitty. Thanks for
supporting some patron nitty. Do you have an accurate verse translation that you hate the most,
or one that you think is always solid? And let's let's let's harsh that always solid part,
because I know you'll never give 100%. But no, but you think it's the most solid.
So I gosh, an inaccurate thing. Again, I, I guess, I guess for me, it's, it's not so much about
the inaccuracy, but it's the, it's the deceptiveness of the ending of Mark being printed as though
it's there. And the various ways that that that different publishers go about trying to,
like, tell the reader that that this, this actually isn't there, but we want it there.
Yeah, yeah. Like, so I think that's probably the thing that gets under my skin the most is
like just looking at these things and like, I'll say to class, like, so if you just like look
at the end of market, they're like, there's no appearance. And they're like, yes, there is,
it's here. And I'm like, what, what, why are you reading? And they're like the same one you are.
And I'm like, crap, like, they did it again, like they snuck it back in and just put the tiniest
of footnotes. And it's in the back end now. And so you actually have to look up on page,
like 1827 and this five print to see it. So yeah, that's, that's definitely an annoying thing for me.
Yeah. Is there any that you just find solid? Like, I know that some people say that certain
things can be like solid that, that Jesus said, because they're like not flattering.
Do you think anything is solid?
A solid, like, I mean, I always liked my, oh God, like, now that I'm put on the spot,
like, I have to make sure I get it right, right? But if I could kind of make the last part of this
interview, only in Hebrew, that would be great. Well, see, that's what I was going to say. Like,
I really like the, the prayer of dedication that Solomon does for the temple in First Kings 8,
right? And, and, and so it's,
it's, so what, it's, yeah, I, I don't want to butcher the thing, but
how is it in, I mean, it's so anyway, and in, in, in English, it's something like the,
you know, the heavens and the highest heavens cannot contain you or, oh Lord, much less this,
this house that I've built for you or something like that. And I guess that's my free translation
from the Hebrew in my head, like, that, but it's just like, it's so beautiful. It's beautiful in
Hebrew. And like, just the idea of it is also amazing. And like, that's something that, like,
now I, now I sound all Christian and stuff, but it's just like, can you say it in Hebrew?
It's, so the, sorry, what did you ask if I can, yeah, can you say it in Hebrew? You said it sounds
beautiful in Hebrew. Can you say it in Hebrew? So the, yeah, the, let me see. So it's, I mean,
no, no, I don't want to butcher. I don't want to get on my case here.
Yeah. Okay. We can, we can leave that. We can leave that one. Yeah. Okay.
So yeah. Okay. Well, I, one last question from Jason Rollins, who's the Archbishop of Deep Drinks.
Soon we're going to have a little cartoon avatar. It's going to be cool. But nice.
One of the Archbishop's of Deep Drinks has said, Jason Rollins, what is your opinion
of the criteria, criterion of Aramaic and for historical Jesus studies? So I think just to
give you a bit of context, I think Jason, Jason is a little bit on the mythic side of things.
Okay. Yeah. That's no problem. So I, the criterion of Aramaism, so saying that,
that when you find things that reflect Aramaic language or whatever, it would be
more likely to be historical related to Jesus, stuff like that, then stuff that's just in pure
beautiful Greek or whatever. And, and so, and I would say, I'm, in certain cases, I'm somewhat
sympathetic to that. Like the, the fact that we have this, like the words of Jesus on the cross,
it's, that's kind of this Aramaic quotation from the Hebrew, from Psalm 22,
the couple of places where like Mark actually uses the, the Aramaic words, I think like,
there's, it's, it seems like there's traditions being passed down that also make it into Greek that,
that are reflecting that there's something happening, like that, but, but like I,
like in general, like to say that stories that are transmitted that are, have more of an Aramaic
flair are more likely to reflect Jesus, like, I don't care, like, if you can make up a story
in Aramaic and transmit it to Greek too. So, like there's, it's, like, I don't find it 100%
convincing, but I do, I do trust the trustworthiness of Greek stories as well, like as, as maybe
reflecting some of the central themes or characters or stuff, like a person who speaks Greek and
witness something and tell, talk about it, can hear a story from somebody and tell it in a better
way in Greek. And like, so I don't think there's like, I don't think it's a super strong thing,
but I do think that the, that some of the sayings that, that reflect Aramaic probably indicate
maybe a stronger, stronger relationship, but that's, that's not really my, my field, but it's,
yeah, it's kind of, yeah, that's where I stand.
Cool. Awesome. Well, thank you so much for coming on. Everyone go check out your channel,
you'll be releasing a new video very shortly. Is there anything else you want to say before
we kind of wrap up? Actually, and I got one last question. What's your class about? Tell us,
give us a little. Yeah, so, so I'm teaching a class with a couple of colleagues and it's called
Apocalypse Now. And what we're doing is we are looking at modern media expressions of, of the
end times, and then studying both like the ways they use older traditions and I mean, of course,
biblical traditions, stuff like that, and the way they do it in similar ways and different ways to,
to antiquity. And so like, we had our opening seminar yesterday and we, we talked to kind of
about the, the framework of what we're doing and we watched this, this Norwegian movie, which is just
an amazing, amazing movie called Manuske, so this was called People in the Sun, and it's kind of
about these Norwegians that go on vacation to the coast and, and then like the end times happen
while they're there and how basically like they can't, they don't understand what's happening
because they're so, you know, such horrible people in a way. It's just, it's a, it's a really funny
good laugh. But, and so today what I'm going to be doing is we're going to go through some of the
background for, for the Apocalypses and the Hebrew Bible. And so we're going to look at
like themes about creation and flood and destruction and New Jerusalem and then looking at Daniel,
especially Daniel seven to twelve with like the four beasts and the four kingdoms and all that
kind of stuff. And yeah, and looking at how these, these things kind of are the, are the prototype
for how, how Apocalypses then develop. And then next week, James Crossley, my, my colleague,
is going to do the New Testament stuff. So I'd talk about, yeah, like Revelation and the, these
kind of how all these things appear. And then we're going to be doing a bunch of classes on
different stuff. Like we'll talk about, we're going to talk about Enoch and, and you know, Jubilees
and then we're actually, I have one, my, I have an American colleague who's a church historian
and he's also from the, yeah, an American colleague from the US. And we're going to talk about rapture
culture. How we both kind of grew up with that, like understanding that if you came home and you
expected people to be there and then nobody was home, you're just like, shit, missed the rapture.
Like it's a, you know, it's a, how ingrained that can be into us. If I look at some of the like left
behind movies and stuff like that. So someone actually asked, I can't find the comment, but
they actually asked in the, in the chat, if there, do you see a difference between people who actually
believe in the Apocalypses in your class and people who don't? Are they like, are they like other
people in there that are like, actually a bit freaked out or are the people who are like,
so nobody seems freaked out, but, but I definitely, I started by asking the class yesterday, I said,
like, introduce yourself and say how you think the world's going to end. And, and people said,
like, yeah, I kind of, I'll go for the religious explanation. Like, I think that's, that's what's
going to happen. Like Jesus come back and everything's, yeah, does that. And, and, you know, when I,
I think they probably son or explode, and that's her, you know, whatever son or son or develop
and, and, and golf us or whatever. And, and, but, you know, that's just as much blind faith in a
way as anything else. Like, I'm not, I'm not really worried about it. But like, I think,
I think it's a religious studies course, but we have a mixed, mixed audience. Some are religious
and some aren't. And, and I think that's just like fine. That's, that's how I like it, actually.
I like that we can be honest and open and talk about these things. But, but like, at this point,
I haven't felt that there's any like real anxiety for, for the end in the classroom. And so I think
that's a good thing. Like, I, I, you know, that, that, that was kind of my worries. Like, if we
have someone that's actually anxious about the end times, then we have to kind of negotiate that as
well. Yeah, of course. Yeah. But yeah, we'll see. Oh, good. Well, I enjoy your class. You got to go
in a couple of minutes. So I'll let you go. But thanks to everyone for checking out the first
episode, episode 101 of Deep Drinks 2024. Let's do this. Peace out.
