වවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවව
ව඀න් වවවච
Welcome to Deep Drinks Podcast, where the drinks are deep and the conversations are deeper.
Watching this was this will be Bundy нет
Welcome everone to Deep Drinks podcast.
Thank you everyone fo showing up.
This is gonna be a fun one!
So normally on Deep Drinks we don't tend to...
We usually have unpare pareesan konferenz
unbias conversations at least I try to be unbiased and try and just, you know, try and see the other side's perspective, but that's not what we're doing today. Today, we're just roasting can have an amount of power because they deserve it. And also talking a little bit about a little bit about some instant drama and some atheist activism. But before we jump into it and before I introduce the guest as always, if you like listening to these podcasts, you can check out deep drinks on all podcasting platforms, and let's get started.
Listen to them on the way to work. It's actually been quite interesting. I've actually been listening to my own podcast because, you know, people have been like, oh, the episode with Dr. Josh is really good. And I'm like, oh, really?
Then I go back to this one. Like this is I forgot everything he said. This is really interesting. So if that's something you want to do, check that out on all podcasting apps.
The other thing is deep drinks podcast is growing really well. And we have a few really interesting upcoming live streams. So next week, we have Holy Humanist talking about leaving Islam and human rights, especially women's rights.
So that's going to be a really interesting and also interview getting very excited about that one. We're drinking red and white wine, which will be good.
And then we also have the big boy return of Michael Jones. We'll be talking about the problem of evil. And we have another guest, secret guest in between these two.
So they're going to be good episodes. And for those who don't know, as we grow in subscribers, when I get to 1,000 subscribers, we can start doing things like super chats.
People can ask questions and which means that and also monetize the channel. And what that means is, well, I can start doing this more as a like a like a full time basis or I can start working towards becoming doing this full time or at least making some revenue office.
But we're going to start with a charity stream. And the charity stream will be a six hour charity stream where we will be doing some fun stuff.
And you can see last week, look at the little thing down the bottom that so many subscribers we have. Bam, we just upgrade up some subscribers.
And I think it's even gone up just this morning from you guys subscribing. So that's really, really, really, really thankful that you guys are turning out and subscribing.
But I wanted to give you guys a taste of something we might be doing if I can get past the line on in the six hour charity stream.
So I'm not sure if anyone knows this, but Kenneth Copeland used to make cowboy movies, and they are the best.
I grew up on them. There's one that goes like 45 minutes. And I think as a group, we need to watch it together.
So I've got a little clip of what you can maybe expect. Here we go.
Let's use this country to our advantage. We can ride a good ways in these streams, and we might come across a buffalo trail.
Why do we want to do that?
Well, Elmer, if those outlaws decide to follow us, it'll make it awful hard for them to pick up a trail.
So I mean, look at that. It's just, it's just the perfect level of cringe. It's just so good.
You can't get better than that.
But without further ado, I want to welcome our guest for today's episode.
So his name is Atheist Junior Ajay.
He's an atheist activist who regularly commentates on creationist Kent Hoven and hate preacher Matt Powell.
He is a YouTube channel with over 6,000 subscribers and is quickly becoming the go-to source for arguments between atheism and theism.
So welcome, Ajay.
Hey, that was a very, very generous description.
So thank you. Thank you for mentioning my sub count.
Oh, well, yeah, you're growing really, you're growing really fast.
And it's not like, you're not just over 6,000. You're like six and a half, is it?
It's like 6,300, you know, not that I keep track.
Do you want, do you go on the app like every day and you're like, well, more subscribers I do.
I mean, yeah, when you start doing YouTube, it is hard considering how many, how the detailed analytics that YouTube gives you, it's hard not to check it.
Yeah, yeah, I do check it a couple of times a day, but you know, I try, I try not to obsess over it too much.
Yeah, yeah, it's one of those things that's like, it becomes like a game because there are so many things that YouTube gives you, the analytics like where people stop watching, et cetera, et cetera.
We can do a whole other stream on content creation, but we're on deep drinks.
So we're drinking today and we're drinking something delicious.
We're drinking, what are we drinking, Ajay? You chose to drink as always?
I'm drinking a giant frozen margarita because I am from San Antonio, which is south Texas.
And we have a huge Hispanic Mexican culture here.
So one of the popular drinks is margaritas and like we have taco cabana here.
So you go to taco cabana and you sit on the patio and you get drunk and you eat tacos.
And that's just like our culture and we get, we eat tacos and get really fat and drink tequila.
That sounds like heaven on earth.
Eating tacos, getting really fat and drink tequila.
Yeah, I made fajitas for dinner yesterday.
I made burritos.
Oh, awesome.
I'm a vegetarian, so like I eat so many beans, like so bean burritos, man.
It's just, anyway, I'm mixing mine.
So I got my bottle of tequila and I think, you know, I'll put one shot in for now, but we got more shots to come.
And I got the old margarita mix and I'll put a mix all together and then we can get started.
So you have been killing it on YouTube, making commentary on Young Earth Creationism, especially Kent Hoven and Matt Powell.
How did you get started?
Well, I joined an anti Kent Hoven Facebook group.
I don't know if you're familiar with it.
There's like one major one run by a fairly controversial individual who Kent Hoven does not like, a former IRS agent named Robert Beatty.
And I started posting on that Facebook group because, you know, I discovered this genre on YouTube of people who made videos debunking Kent Hoven.
So I discovered like his debates against like Aaron Raw, Bill Ludlow and King Crocoduck and all these classic debates, you know, and I instantly got hooked on watching those debates.
But I also sort of started hate watching Kent Hoven and couldn't sort of couldn't stop because he was just so fascinating to me.
And so people like Thunderfoot, you know, he has a playlist called Why Do People Laugh at Creationists, I think.
Oh, it's amazing.
And with some really, really old videos from like 2005 or 2006 that he had done about Kent, they still hold up, you know, the quality is bad, but the arguments are still good.
And, you know, Aaron Raw, obviously, and there was like this channel that is no longer on YouTube of like this, like the skeptic generation or like the skeptic team, something like it was like these two or three people and they did a lot of videos debunking Kent.
And Kent, who said, oh, you know, feel free to, you know, copy my videos, none of them are copyrighted copyright struck a lot of these videos.
That's why that channel is not in YouTube anymore, because CSC did copyright strikes against a lot of these videos.
So I noticed that the genre of YouTube videos that I loved was kind of like dead, like people had moved on to other theists like Ray Comfort or Ken Ham, or, you know, take your pick.
It's Dr. Craig.
Oh, go ahead.
Just to interject there, like, I can see kind of why it's like beating a dead horse.
You're like, when is this horse going to die?
Like this horse is dead.
Like when like his points have been destroyed over and over and over and over and over.
And it's like, at what stage do you just go like, he's a lost cause.
But then I think what you've done is you've made it funny and you've made it.
You know what I mean?
Like it's not, it's not no longer about like trying to convince him or his audience necessarily.
It's more just like, let's watch this train wreck in slow motion.
Yeah, so I had seen like these videos and I, my philosophy with my YouTube channel has been that I try to make videos that I wish other people would make, or I try to make videos that I would want to watch.
Like if I was stuck on a desert island with only my own YouTube channel, would I be able to like enjoy that?
And so I started making these videos just for the Facebook group.
I just found a couple of clips of Kent and just did voiceovers.
They were just these crappy videos I made on my phone and people on there liked them and they said like, hey, why don't you just try uploading this to YouTube and I did.
And then the first video uploaded was like 100 or 200, 300 views and I was like, people are actually watching this, you know, and then it just, it just went from there basically.
Yeah, right.
That's so cool.
I will, I will say that it is definitely true that Kent Hoven's arguments have not changed from like 2005 or earlier.
You know, because truth, truth doesn't change.
Truth doesn't change.
That's what Kent says that truth doesn't change.
But that's not true because science does change.
Science is always being updated.
They're always discovering new things in science.
They're updating their models.
So that's just not true.
But there's a lot of people who like me have a weird fixation of hate watching Kent's videos just to see what he'll say next basically.
And some people feel uncomfortable about that because it's like, well, you're giving him watch time for the algorithm, you're giving him a boost, even if you dislike the videos, it's still boosting his channel.
And people can't comment on the channel because he has this weird amount of filtered words like you can't say the word Jesus.
You can't say the word like like sell or like the word like book.
Like there's a million filtered words and also like Matt Powell deletes any comments that are negative towards Kent.
So what I've been able to do with my video is sort of provide a platform where people can not only see the crazy stuff Kent is saying.
But that algorithmic boost is going towards an atheist channel that they actually want to support.
They can also leave comments in a space where I'm not going to delete them unless they're like anti vaxxer shit or just spam.
And also like, you know, people enjoy the commentary I make.
So I it's like transformative content to where, you know, you're not just having to sit through a Kent video, but you actually have me pausing the video and be like, no Kent, that's bullshit.
And then like doing some stupid can't open voice.
Yeah, it's it's it's truly funny how like how dishonest they can get like what levels they can get to.
I remember when I first found Matt Powell, I was like, wow, like this guy is he must know he's deliberately misrepresenting the information.
There must be something I'm trying to psychoanalyze him like what's going on like why why is he so fixated on this because he knows he must be misrepresenting the information.
So he like he can't he's not that dumb.
I don't think he can't be that dumb.
Surely like he wouldn't know how to turn on the phone if he could if he was that dumb.
I really want to find out.
I really I reckon when he's a bit older will find out what that thing is like he might have something might have something might happen and we'll work out.
Oh, okay.
So he was just competent for this thing or that thing or whatever.
Yeah, but just for people.
So I have a relative who watches this who doesn't know, you know, she's she's older.
She's she's she's not like internet blood sports you kind of people and she would have no idea what we're talking about.
But she likes the podcast and and so I just want to read out some statistics just on creationism in general.
So creationists are people who believe that necessarily don't subscribe to evolution, the theory of evolution or big bang theory cosmology or anything like that.
They believe that got that usually they believe that humans were created just the way they are.
Usually 6,000 years ago sometimes sometimes 6,000 years depending on what religion.
So a few facts in 2013 9% of people in Australia don't believe in evolution.
So that's that's pretty good like this Australia's doing okay.
But in America, in June of 2019, Gallup released their most recent poll of public attitudes on evolution and creationism.
According to the survey, 40% of the sampled US population were creationists.
So almost half the population were creationists.
That is when asked which of the following statements comes closest to your views on the origins of human development.
40% of respondents said God created human beings pretty much in their present form at one time within the last 10,000 years or so.
That is mind boggling to me like that is like I'm in the Texas of Australia pretty much which is like the bumpkin state.
I'm in the more liberal part of the bumpkin state but like yeah that and so I have I run into more people probably than than like someone in Melbourne.
Or Sydney but 40% of the population America believes that doesn't doesn't accept like basic things like evolution or Big Bang cosmology.
It's insane to me and not only that these organizations are fighting really hard to remove like science from basic students textbooks.
They don't want to they don't want kids to learn about evolution in school in public schools in public schools.
So although this is like you know although this is like funny and everything there is actually some some truth some some a deeper kind of somber reason why this is important.
And it's because this kind of thinking is actually rampant in the world and rampant in America.
Yeah, have you have you discovered what part of do you mind telling us what part of America you're in.
I live in Texas.
Yeah, so I live it.
So I live in South Texas.
I live in San Antonio.
It's by the capital which is Austin.
And I will say that when I was in high school which I graduated 2007.
I don't know if that makes people feel young or old but I feel old.
We didn't have evolution in my biology curriculum.
I didn't learn about it.
So like really I didn't really understand anything about evolution until I just I got on YouTube and found channels like Aaron Ron Jackson wheat and gutsy gibbon and you know.
I mean I wouldn't I still like I still like accepted it.
Oh yeah, I actually got to meet Erica in person last year and just that was awesome badass.
I love her animation at the start of her videos too.
Yeah, she is blown up her channel is like I mean if you think my channel is she's like she'll be at 100k in no time seriously yeah yeah and she deserves it like she puts in so much work into a conversation.
It's really good.
But yeah, you're saying the school schooling system.
Yeah, so you know when I was in high school, we had the chairman of education was this fucking diaper gremlin named Ron named Don McLeary.
And he like literally, you know said shit like evolution teaches that spiders came from rocks shit like like Kenovan shit like and he was like a former dentist.
I mean he's done a debate with our and raw which is hilarious.
But you know they had a strong activism campaign to get evolution out of our textbooks which they accomplished you know up until recently, and also whitewashing the history books, changing shit like the Atlantic slave trade to the triangular trade, or you know, trying to take it to the
any mention of historical figures who were not white Christian, you know, was basically it just ridiculous, you know, and so that that's part of the reason that inspired me to make my channel.
Was because I was annoyed that I didn't learn about evolution sooner.
And I would like to try and be somebody who can communicate science to people because I'm, I'm a layman.
I'm a layman.
I'm a layman.
I'm a layman.
I'm a layman.
I'm a layman.
I'm a layman.
I'm a layman.
I'm trying to be somebody who can communicate science to people because I'm, I'm wanting it.
be somebody who can communicate science to people because I'm, I'm a layman.
I don't have it like a fancy degree like Erika or Jackson wheat, you know, I don't have it like a fancy degree like Erica or Jackson wheat, you know, I don't have it like a fancy degree like Erika or Jackson wheat, you know, I don't have it like a fancy degree like Erika or Jackson wheat, you know, I don't have it like a fancy degree like Erika or Jackson wheat, you know, I don't have it like Erika or Jackson wheat, you know, I am just, I am just a guy on YouTube, basically, but I like to think that I can you know, I'm just a guy on YouTube, basically.
mè zhèzăðd ł 알� Grandpa Anur y nè  ceia young.
Ṭi Ṭi Ṭi Ṭi Ṭo nè Ṭi Ṭi Ṭi Ṭi Ṭi Ṭi Ṭi Ṭi
выглядceptions will of zine because I do think part o why that we have accepta
guide
that definition of evolution What's definition of evolution
it's like OK, well, it's the, it's the changes and
� ḏᶦᵃᵃᶕᵍᶜ ᶁᶶᶦᵈ ᶍᶯᵝᵉ, ᶀᶸᶡ ᶄᶂᵍᵗᵅσ ᶀᶜᶔᵈ ᶄᶠᶘᶸᶈ ᶇᶕᶒᶘ� ad
wo wa the description
t
and if we came from monkeys why are there still monkeys you know like that's the thing like you know
like i say that as a joke but i think you know we need to be able to actually answer these type
of questions because if you can engage with people on an intuitive level that's when they can
start to understand thing and understand things about evolution that's actually one thing i will say
i respect about kent hoven is that he is an effective communicator that's part of the reason
why so many people find him compelling is because he talks on a really simple level it's just
everything he says is bullshit yeah and it's it's it's frustrating because because from a surface
level it sounds really it makes a lot of sense like from a surface level like you're like oh yeah
yeah i remember seeing and we're gonna review this later probably if we have time but um i remember
seeing a one of my um friends mum's posted a clip of kent hoven um like a little clip um on facebook
she's not i don't think she's a creationist but the way that he or she probably is but not a young
of creation whatever sorry i digress but he was like talking so well that it made it sound like
you know well god god is the answer like he made a really good case for like god is the gaps
essentially like um you know he's outside of time and like all that kind of um stuff um and she
shared it and i was like she and i thought to myself like she has no idea how dishonest how
immoral how um how much of a con man this person is allegedly i don't want to get sued by mr hoven
but um so before i really want to do a bit of a deep dive into the kent hovened memes and when i
say memes i mean like the definition richard dorkins used in his book like ideas but the i really
want to deep dive into that but to give people a taste so when i was preparing for this interview
i was looking up like compilations i was trying to look up compilations of kent hoven
and his little buddy matt pal it's like batman and robin right um and i was trying to find
compilations and i couldn't i couldn't find really good snappy ones that just quickly and easily
show the problem with this dude so i made one right so i showed a bit of like his conspiratoral
thinking i showed um some of the really hateful things that matt said now this clip that i'm about
to show um content warning if you get triggered by absolutely homophobic disgusting comments turn
off for a few minutes three minutes probably it is absolutely filthy it's disgusting but i think
we need to shine a light on this kind of stuff and and you actually posted one of these clips on twitter
because he wasn't he didn't post it on youtube because he knew he'd get flagged like for it so
um so this this just brings this clip will just bring um just give give you some context for
why i think it's appropriate to just roast the shit out of these two scumbags um on part of
my platform so let's watch this clip it goes for two minutes
tonight whack an atheist we got a good one for you tonight evolution is a religion got some morons just
as evil as these guys i'm gonna name who want to have a new world order now and they don't mind
killing everybody in in their way whether jab them in the arm kill them slowly or whether spray
chemtrails in the sky i think everything from the bible is scientifically accurate and nothing has ever
been proven wrong i believe that all of these drag queens right should be lined up every single one of
them by the power of the united states constitution
go to chemtrails911.com the reality is this stuff they're spraying out is wanting to electrify
considering having your children vaccinated or getting vaccinated yourself for anything blue vaccine
included i would really think twice about that satan is saying to it that well-meaning parents are
destroying their baby's immune system putting over 22 viruses into their system before they are
two richard dawkins may believe in it but it's a belief that he has it's not science and as far as
homosexuality goes you know i believe the bible puts a death penalty on it obviously not by me or by
anybody you know in in in our regular society obviously i believe it's the government's job to execute
criminals and you know i believe that the bible says clearly that homosexuality is a criminal crime
it's a crime it's one of the worst crimes ever the whole purpose of that thing that happened in
las vegas is to take away the gun and if you think what happened in oklahoma is what they're telling
you on the news you are absolutely duped okay one guy did not fire all those rounds all the pictures
they show of the blood the blood is still red that's movie blood they use for movies when the evil
people do some stuff like this and blame this guy watch what happens to his assets i'll bet they
seize everything the guy's got the thing is the bible does say there is a time to hate
uh so what a piece of shit so everyone get the trending hashtag fuck mat pal um going um
aran ra said a lifetime in his book uh the the foundational falses of creationism a lifetime ago
someone said that when fascism comes to america it'll be wrapped in a flag and carrying across that day has come
yeah um and i i don't know if it if it was just me but i i think the video skipped for a second
when it got to matt powell talking about the drag queens thing um but i you know i know what he said
and i found a news article uh that said because matt powell released his uh video um in june of this year
and then one month later in july there was a uh drag queen library story hour in canada where the
where a guy was trying to assault the attendees and hit them with a flagpole
he um he was driving a truck that had canadian flags on the back and he was doing like donuts in the
parking lot and driving around the library and then when the when people came out he like got out of
his truck and was like swinging the flagpole at people trying to hit them and then the cops like
arrested him i'm not saying there's connection but uh when matt powell says oh i think the government
should you know uh shoot these drag queens what he's saying is the implication is to all of his
christian nationalist viewers who are gun owners they know that the government is never actually
going to do this so the implication is you guys need to take matters into your own hands and
you know i think that it is an incitement of violence and uh i take it seriously you know
and i think that he should be banned from youtube for that i think he you know he clearly
has violated uh their hate speech guidelines and you know he could even you know you could even
say that he should be arrested for saying these things i don't know we had a i had a whole conversation
with um with uh star stardust um about this um she's a left leaning um progressive liberal um
but she has got conversation she gets a lot of flak she has conversations with like Richard
Spencer and stuff on her channel um and uh and we had a whole conversation about platforming
i sort of know where i i lean with it but she made a good point in that yeah like probably yeah
he's he seems like he's breaking the terms of youtube surface for sure but her point was
essentially that um that uh i don't know what i point with i don't think she would i don't think
she'd be in favor of what matt pal's doing actually to be honest so i don't know what i was
where i was going with that but um but the the thing is too uh what if he if i'm not sure if the
video cut out for everyone else but the uh he was he essentially said that um that drag that drag
queens who any and i cut out the section just to keep it short who in quote flaunt their bodies
around children should be publicly executed um by firing squad and he thinks that the
US government should do it now um i don't know if you can call that sarcastic terrorism
which is essentially where you aren't actually committing terrorist acts yourself but you're
you're vilifying a group of people um over and over and over again in order that a reasonable outcome would be
um uh violence that group that so i don't know the jury could still be out on whether that is
actually a form of sarcastic terrorism um or whether or not he was just a voicing a really
horrible opinion um anyway um i hope that gives everyone some context about why we're talking
about this um and why why we're also making fun of it because i think um it's something that we
should make make fun of um hashtag fuck matt pal and fuck ken hoven um so you've been whacked off by
ken hoven many times i really want to be whacked off by me by ken hoven uh how do i get whacked off by
ken hoven well um first of all it's whacking off atheist so i just yeah i mean is your is your
channel um a video uh does your channel have a lot of videos that are about atheism uh yeah a little bit
yeah okay well i mean first you have to get on ken's radar um so i think you're getting there
you know your channel is growing um ken ken seems to want to go after channels that have
decent sub counts because you know part of it is that he is he knows that the back and forth is going
to increase his view count because kent is very obsessed with his youtube views not that i think
that there's anything wrong with that but it just annoys me when people are like that and they
act like they're not like it's okay to be concerned with your view count but don't act like you don't
care when you obviously do that's just what irritates me um he's also very obsessed with my
200 000 subscribers he has 200 000 subscribers and me and him get almost exactly the same view
counts on our videos uh which doesn't really make sense i wonder if uh do you think there's a
greater percentage of people who subscribe to him for hate like to hate watch him or people who
actually like his content um this is speculation but yeah i i i think that's mostly christians who watch
i think it's mostly his supporters who watch um i think he just has a lot of subscribers that just
are old subscribers who just don't tune in anymore although i do kind find it kind of odd because
he recently hit 200 000 and then in the past couple weeks or month he's gained like 4 000 subscribers
and i'm just kind of like wondering where from i mean i'm not going to accuse him of buying subs
because i can't prove that but you know the the sub ratio the sub to view count ratio doesn't add up
i mean like i would say that basically all of my subscribers watch the content i put out because
the the sub count i have really matches up with the views sometimes it's more more than the sub count
i have which means that new viewers are discovering it or people are watching the videos more than once
and that is one thing i think i have an advantage over kentus because i think that people can go and
watch my videos more than once i don't think anybody is going to go watch kent hoven's bible study more
than once except for weirdos like me who watch like way too much kent hoven videos but at least i have
sort of an excuse now because i kind of treat it as a job yeah um research so and so kent hoven who
is kent hoven he's he he's like uh can you give us a little rundown who is this man that clears
his throat like all the time that obviously needs lots and lots and just or something
yeah um you know it's like that's a hard question you know it's like asking you know like what is love
you know um baby don't hurt me don't hurt me no more um what is hovened what like what am i like
who like what is reality what is life but uh kent hoven is a man kent hoven is a small man not
not physically but um he's very small in terms of his he's got a napoleon complex so he's extremely
defensive he's narcissistic he's um what's the word uh oh i did a poll on this on my channel
the other day i can't even remember it uh he i'm drawing a blank um he's pretentious he thinks
he's a lot smarter than he is um but if i had to give a biography of him he is a religious preacher
he's a southern baptist um he's a younger creationist who thinks the earth is 6000 years old
in addition to the universe he basically copied all of his beliefs off of other creationists like
walt brown henry morris dwayne gish ken ham uh you know all the all the classics great comfort
very few of his arguments are original he basically is copying the other creationist homework
which is uh a creationist tradition you know i mean he even basically stole his name from
walt brown's organization because walt brown's uh thing is just called creation science and can't
just tack the word evangelism on the end you know uh but you know he's been he he is a sovereign
citizen he's a tax protester he is a anti feminist he's anti lgbt he is a boomer
he is uh a conspiracy theorist he thinks that the oklahoma city bombing was done intentionally
by the government in order to uh bring down heat on the militia groups in the united states and to
promote gun control he thinks 9 11 was an inside job he thinks that chemtrails are really yeah he
thinks the illuminati is real right he thinks that the movie wizard of oz was a coded message for
chemtrails and he thinks that bill clinton wants to start a new world order and reduce the
world's population to one billion um so kent he has a lot of fucked up beliefs but he's basically
just an old shitty person have you seen that um that image of like um the conspiracy theory pyramid
no i have not but yes he is also a convicted criminal he spent nine years in jail for 45 counts
of structuring uh not hold not withholding social security tax from his employees who he claimed
remissionaries um one count of trying to intimidate the irs an irs agent and also yeah it was uh the
structuring and then the social security taxes failure to withhold and then the uh
intimidating irs agent went to jail for nine years can't admit he did anything wrong is physically
incapable of ever admitting that he's made a mistake um is convinced he's innocent
has been three or four times you know none of them are right they left matters
none of that matters but but uh yeah not that matters but um for the average joe but when
you're uh when you have this like pattern of bad behavior um i also heard he's a fan of wrestling
like he really loves like like power bombing or body slamming peeps and stuff yeah yeah he i don't
know about wrestling but yeah he as he got convicted of a he got he received a guilty verdict
for domestic abuse against his third wife Cindy Lincoln and he tried to ask for a retrial and
was denied by the courts and then he is he appealed the verdict now that appeal process has been
going on since last year the reason it's been delayed so long is because of covid 19 because
there have been five murder trials in Lennox alabama in the past year and because Lennox is a very
very small town so they have small courts with limited resources um but i think uh and also
Cindy got a restraining order against him but the gears of justice are turning i'll just say that
you know things are starting to happen uh with Kant and his court stuff after a long long wait
yeah um just mr. bitleg asks a really good question curious is the bible to blame for the
actions i don't think so um but i can't use the bible as a shield kent doesn't he hardly even
really understands the bible i don't i i make a joke about this to my friend mark sony but i
say that i'm a better christian than kent is you definitely are uh so um i think though what
happens when you have when you start engaging in science denial or i'll call reality denial when
you have to start making the bible fit things i think i think that could be a could be part of the
reason why this is all this is all happening i think if you have to believe science is a liar
sometimes then why not with the gravity and the earth being flat and 9 11 and all that stuff like
it'll it all plays into itself and i got sent this um this by p barns but i didn't actually open
up with p barns but i've got it here but this is the pyramid the conspiracy chart so um have you
ever seen this before no i have not so right at the bottom here you've got ground in reality
and then you've got some conspiracies that um things that actually happen so you got mk ultra yeah
that's a massive that that is some crazy shit mk yeah yeah and then you got the speculation line
so we have questions about your foes roswell free bit britney um and then you have like crop
circles which is iniquity iniquity false but mostly harmless lockness monster bigfoot then you
start moving to dangerous and that's like anti-vaxxers covid 19 made in a lab 5g chem trails essential
oils qe illnesses global warming is a hoax jet fuel doesn't melt steel beams so and then you
pass the anti-semitic point of no return which is the world is ruled by supreme shadow elites
once you believe um you believe one you usually believe the most get help so that's like pizza
gate the moon landing was fake illuminati q and on the deep state new world auto bill gates
market shipping holocaust denial so i was i'm actually wondering do you know if it's a holocaust
denial because i wouldn't i wouldn't i was trying to look that up yesterday i couldn't couldn't find
anything about it i would say no but kent is anti-semitic so kent kent um
just in a recent video was promoting the book um oh god um what's the
fuck i can't think of the name of it um
um me google this real quick uh so he was promoting the protocols of the elders of zion so
and that is like the classic anti-semitic book it's all bullshit but um
you know kent well i link i link every book in the description but i will not be linking this one
yeah um yeah so like that book basically also forth rike of the rich um so the protocols of
the elders of zion is a conspiracy book that was used by the nazis and was taught in german schools
when hitler was in charge to teach people that jews run the world in an evil jewish conspiracy
and all of the world's problems are because of this jewish conspiracy but all of the facts in the book
were bullshit um and you know kent as recently as like a few weeks ago was saying oh do we
do we show that book do we show that book in a video when he was talking about how how bad hitler
is and i left a comment saying you can't say that you how bad hitler is and then promote this book
in the same video you can't do that yeah the the when we're in my wife and i went to berlin and we
did a tour with the um with a tour of like a bike tour through berlin and we went to the the
memorial for the murder jews of europe and we went to like a bunch plate the bell and wall and all that and
one thing they pointed out when i was there i don't know i haven't verified this but
they burnt the origin of species um when the nazis burnt to the book burning they burnt the origin of
species exactly right so to the which is which is mind boggling when you when you have people like
matt pal and ken hoven batman and robin um but the evil side of them um saying things like
evolution is the reason why the holocaust happened like evolution and darlin is the reason why the
holocaust happened and you're like what they literally the the nazis had god with us on their
bell buckles um michael granado might correct me there but i've heard that before and um in mine comp
you know um hitler said i believe i'm doing the job of the almighty creator when i'm exterminating the
jew like i i don't understand how matt pal and ken hoven can can say that this is an evolutionary
so matt marco granado said yes they did good whoo he's marco granado for everyone who doesn't
know make sure you go check out his channel as well he's an expert in um world war two um philosophy
science he's a great dude yeah and i think michael asked a question to me in the chat um it said
do you think i'm assuming he's talking about hoven do you think his belief is sincere like maybe
started off as believer but now it's more as a more of an act so i've been asked this question a whole
bunch um and usually when people ask me that it's more of do you think that hoven actually believes
the shit he says and uh to answer that question it's sort of easier if you split up the things that
he says into two categories so you have on one category you have the religious claims like the claims
about younger creationism like universe is 6000 years old no his flood happened um like eat like
moses existed uh you know fossils were caused by the flood uh hydro plate theory we're gonna judgment
day shit like that um we can't says that stuff he believes that stuff 100 he believes it's true
when it comes to kent saying shit like oh you believe it came from a rock uh or
do you think uh do you think you're related to a strawberry like that's kent knows that
shit isn't true or when he says that oh uh you know earth was in a dot you couldn't
converse the bowling ball into a dot and we're much less the whole earth kent knows that it's a
religion a religion he knows that scientists cosmologists say that the earth wasn't there
right when the big bang started he knows that what they say it didn't form until billions of
years later so when he says stuff like well you couldn't compress the whole earth into a dot
when he says shit like you came from rock that's just kent making fun of evolutionist atheists
that's just him making fun of people he knows that shit isn't true he will never admit that
but he knows it's not true because kent likes calling people stupid and mocking people
so the religious stuff kent 100 percent believes that once kent decides that something's true
it's true in his mind also um some of the stuff he'll claim about science like uh you know
in his mind that's true but when he says something that is done in a way to mock other people
i think kent knows that that stuff is wrong but just doesn't care because making fun of people is more
important so that's the way i would answer that question the religious stuff i do think he sincerely
believes it um i you know listening to you man i i just feel like you're being you're being dishonest
i think i'm on kent's side now um i agree with big bad mama she says uh aj you just want your
religion to be taught in public schools um she makes a good point i think my videos need to be shown
in public schools at least uh an hour and a half to three hours a day like there should be a class
period each day where my videos are shown it should be like a clockwork orange where the kids eyes are
like like forced open um so they can't look away and um yeah you know i want to indoctrinate people's
children you know yeah the um the the awesome religion of evolution um i i actually so i don't
know if you know this um aj but we're actually both doing experiments right now so we've got some
liquid here um i'm i'm gonna do a refill but okay but uh we might find life we'll just spontaneously
evolve in this cup and start talking to us so we can keep looking at it i don't know if it's uh
if it's gonna evolve but there are merely billions of particles maybe of water in this so
we're actually running billions of experiments at once right that's something i learned from big bad mama
you know um you mentioned compilation videos of kent and i do have videos like that on my channel
i don't really make them anymore but i do have videos on there um i don't know if you know if you
are still looking for some of those but big dad mama you know i have encouraged to
you know make videos and you know basically i i like to encourage people to be do youtube
because it's fun you know and you know you never know and if it's good content people will watch it
you know and i have um i have i'm in the the lucky enough position to where if i see somebody
who make a video that i like i can post it on my community tab and send people over there and
then the like see the view count go up to like a thousand views you know and i think that's really
awesome you know and i like to help people out like that um so is this a it's just a call to action so
maybe we can if anyone's uh wants to maybe this is this is the reason to start a youtube channel
hashtag fuck matt pal hashtag fuck kent hoven if you want to promote a video we can both
try and share it for you if it's cool um we we got to do it we got to get this this thing going
bring the attention to him he wants it yeah i i will say you know i started off doing youtube i
did everything on my phone i made all my videos on my phone the audio was shit production quality
was not very good but um people still watched it and people like the videos um i do think that you need
a pretty a fairly varied skill set um if you're going to be on youtube and be on camera
and not everybody's comfortable being on camera like i still you know feel like i could get a lot
better because i'm i i think i'm fairly awkward on camera you know like i like i like these weird
facial twitches or like i'll just like like like you know start making weird noises or like groaning
or just doing weird voices uh but i think i'm getting better you know yeah that's why i
make my webcam really small that's the same as me i uh i i um i always say um there's so many things
i want to get better at and um and one of the things that i remember one of the first videos
i did was i was trying to be a lot more serious when i first started my youtube channel that's
not the deep drink channel it's my main channel linked in the description um youtube.com
slash david mcdonald whitey but the i i remember i was trying to make a video on buddhism and i was
trying to talk about the story of kiss of katami and there's a book right there next to the statue of
shiva and i literally walked in to frame picked the book up sat down looked at the camera and said
i want to tell you a story and that shot of me reshooting that 25 times 25 times i was not
happy with 25 other no one cares like it's got like 200 views the video is garbage but like i was i
was i was trying so hard at the start and i was so awkward and i bumped something or i you know it's
it's um and it's very confronting um when you first start especially showing yourself it's like
ooh vulnerable yeah honestly that's why i really don't do prerecorded videos i do everything
livestreamed because if i'm going to do a prerecorded video with a script then i feel like i have
to try and memorize the lines i'm gonna say and like be looking at the camera and i have a horrible
memory um and i just end up recording the same i do i end up doing the same take like 35 times
and it's just not fun for me so that's why i for me i i feel like i just like doing live
content better because instead of having like a script i can just have like notes and then
you know i'm i'm sure you've seen like some of my videos where i'll just i'll play like an
entire can't open video like you can't say that i'm misrepresenting because i play the whole
fucking thing um and i'll pause it and i know what i'm gonna say and i don't try to pretend like
i'm not reading from my notes but i feel like if as long as my notes are good and i am saying them
in a way that's topical and um like not fumbling over my words too much because the thing i really
struggle with is the the ums and i also say you know constantly yeah when i don't even want to say
right okay right right right yeah yes like i am the type of person to where yeah if i am thinking
about what i'm gonna say i don't just like blurt something out i'll just like take a really long
time to get a thought out and i know it's very aggravating to watch because i'll watch my own
videos sometimes and i'll just be like dude just fucking spit it out you moron
yeah and so it's oh we can be our our harshest critics hey um well you know that's why i i the advice
i give to people who who are going to start doing youtube is to watch your own videos back
you know and you want your videos to be watchable because if you want to turn it off after like
30 seconds then there's probably a reason for that yeah um yeah we have some really interesting
comments so um p barn said uh ken hoven if we evolved from apes and why can't i funnel thousands of
dollars in an attempt to hide my income hey um you you might be an ape you know um but i'm not i
mean i've met some people who who uh who you know convince me of course they were all black
um man i remember being convinced by ken hoven just by his product back in the day funny to look
back why i'm ridiculous epistemology so um welcome me out of the i hey look i was one i once had
i once borrowed my friends answers and genesis devotees right if you're a former christian we've
all been there like it's it happens yeah um you were saying that like you know a lot of ken
hoven's fans they're not really gonna have their minds changed but i will say that i had i did get
a comment from people i have gotten some similar comments are very rare but i had a person leave
a comment that told me that they were a christian and they were planning on driving down to dinosaur
adventure land to stay there and then they saw my videos and then they cancelled the trip they
decided not to oh wow that's cool and your what's cool is your your friends with um with kent's um
syndy kent's ex-wife um yeah and and it's really cool like she's she's a um she's a christian but
you don't you know that's that's totally all good um and you know you're not trying to convert
or or de-convert or anything like you're just friends and but you both have this like you both
trying to talk about the issues uh your camera has just gone a bit funny is that um temporary yeah
yeah i've been my my camera does that sometimes i've been having a little bit of issues i hope that's
okay if i have it all for a second i'm just tinkering with some settings okay yeah i'll have it
afterwards yeah well actually it might be a good time to um to actually move over to this this uh
this list of this tier map that i um tier list that i've created so i'll add that to the stream
so we have some classic um kenthoven memes right so like just things that he says
um and i want to rank them with you and i was hoping that you could help me help me help me find
a slot for these these bad absolutely i am always willing to help people find where to stick
things in the right slot okay awesome that's great um so i guess um so we got s which is the top
tier a b c d everyone knows what a t list is um where do you think cosmic evolution lands
when he starts talking about cosmic evolution so um how are we how are we grading it yeah like
what is the ranking supposed to be like best meme like funniest meme like i think yeah i guess it's
just like um most iconic i think we'll go with iconic because okay because like uh you know some
things you know people might not have heard of but some are just like this is this is definitely
bigger um you know i will say one idea i've had kicking around was doing like a top five worst
kenthoven arguments yeah that if you if you wanted um if if you wanted me to come on and
help you with that one i'll be more than happy to come on your channel and do that but where will
we put cosmic evolution in regards to like a classic an iconic like how iconic it is for kenthoven
like when you think kenthoven you think see i would say when it comes to iconic i would think of
not necessarily cosmic but six types of evolution so while that's one of the six types um i would
probably put it high because the six types is kent's most iconic meme so i'd probably put it
up in a or b but all right yeah i mean you got it okay that's the og okay awesome awesome uh we
have um i'm going to just remove the banner just briefly um um we have come on down a bonus
for adventure land uh he's classic one liner i mean yeah i will say yeah see because he says
that to everybody you know it's not it doesn't make you special you know you're not special yeah um
evolution is the dumbest religion i'll go i would put that in s tier yeah that that is like that's
like his like main talking point that's like his um that's like the funniest thing he says because
it's almost like because he's projecting a little bit right he's is he like insecure about his religion
like his why is he saying that like is he why like i don't get it well why is he saying that
it's obviously religion i was uh i was watching uh a video of his earlier and he was saying like
oh oh the big bang it's dumb it's retarded it's religious it's like okay well does that mean you
think that things are religious are dumb and retarded yeah like is religion bad yeah it is if
it's not christianity and also like atheism is a religion to ken so you know i guess like i have
two religions or maybe more you know you're a polytheist you worship evolution uh darwin um
atheism um what else time chance geological timescale uh is that like the geological column
yeah geological column so he's like um i was gonna say column or strata but i was like
i'll go with geological timescale where he's like um how do we how do we um tell the age of the rocks
and it's like we check the fossils or how do you tell the age of the fossils or you check the rocks and
i'd go a tier for that one okay all right yeah all right a tier a tier um oh this one's good
life from rocks if you believe your grand great grandfather was a rock
that is an iconic ken hoven horrible misrepresentation so i would put that in s for shitty tier
yeah shitty tier for sure uh whale dicks and i got a little photo of godless engineer in that one
because um yeah so i'm thinking either d for dicks or s tier for how iconic is uh let's go
d for dicks keep okay that's just funny d for dicks but this is funny yeah um dogs don't
produce non dogs he's that's like ss tier easily okay awesome uh whack an atheist he loves
wacking off atheists um that's fairly newer so b is looking a little lonely why don't we slap
that in b tier like a b cup um clearing throat uh um yes you put that in c i don't want to think
about that so so much flow so much flow me is through it ever and here's iconic quote i'm squeaky
clean um i'm not sure if this was the first time you went to jail or if it's his current mishaps um
that that was more recent so that was when kent got arrested and bailed out of jail and you could
see the bail bond paper on the internet with his signature on it but he also said i didn't get
arrested i'm squeaky hoven squeaky hoven i'm wacking off atheists
oh man i don't know just the um to kill him but i'm and i just get so happy hearing the kent
hoven voice and the um and the so where would squeaky clean go i will say just for for you know
you've made a big letter f with these with these images i'm almost sad to mess with that so
i say put it in s tier just to not interfere with the giant f for failure
failure awesome awesome that evolved great okay and i'll put back on the banner but um as
everyone knows if you didn't catch the start um once we get to a thousand subscribers we're doing
a charity stream where we'll be watching hopefully hopefully we're watching a cowboy movie with
coplan so that's what we're at last week and now we've bumped up this week and i think we're
even at some more already so thanks everyone who subscribed if you like this kind of content
so yeah thank you um so uh i was hoping a j that we could kind of wrap up this interview by watching
a um watching a video on kent hoven and just commenting on it and maybe even along with
matpal as well but see how we go with time um yeah i i do want to make sure i answer any questions
that i've missed from the chat i see one i don't know if there's any other ones but um yeah let's answer
that let's answer that one which one is the p barns so i um but can you read it out uh do you
think there is a point where repeated debates with kent becomes a false economy king croc and
debates become little cringy and kind of worked in kent's favor so i'm curious as to how this person
means um false economy i because aren't really had a discussion with kent and then he had a video
exchange debate with kent where they sort of exchange videos and it turned into a huge cluster
but i loved that debate series he got so confused hey it's like aron's like he started doing
episode two when we weren't even like he's like he just those are some of my favorite youtube videos
ever the discussion video is okay it's very dated you know and it's it's all right but i love like i
go back and watch those aron raw videos any day you know even the kent videos i think are hilarious
like him putting up him putting a fucking crying baby's face over aron's face like
i can't i can't help but laugh at it so i would disagree in terms of these two debaters because
i think they had nothing but great debates with kent but i do think that there's some truth to what
you're saying um because you know there are some people who you know who i think have lost debates
to ken ovan i'm not i won't name names um of course i'm to know against kent i've won both of my debates
against him um i destroyed him in the last debate but there are people who i think have lost against
ken ken is not an easy person to debate against he's very experienced he is very uh difficult to
debate because he will wear you down he'll gish gallop he's mentally exhausting to go up against
and i do think that there have been situations where i've seen people you know perform worse i've also
seen debaters go up against kent more than once where they've improved a ton like uh david emory in his
last debate i thought did much better um uh yeah so it just i guess it just depends on the person
you know but ultimately ultimately my my opinion is nobody should debate kent no one should debate kent
we should all stop but if it's if people are going to debate kent if they have to do it well then i think
you should do it the right way you should go and prepared should know your arguments and know
his rhetoric and know how to beat the best way to beat kent in a debate you know
that's my opinion yeah i i um i i kind of want to debate kent but i just i just need to work out
how because it wouldn't be a debate like for me it would just be a meme it would just be
it would just be creating another internet meme like it'd be it'd be trying to piss him off a little bit
but i can i bet but in regards to like proper debates like people who actually know what they're talking
about who actually care um yeah i don't i don't know how i feel about feel about i do like um
you see i was listening to the king croc adak the beautiful destruction of kent hoven king croc
croc episode that was fantastic like to me that just like that that that debate was
amazing to me because he he kind of attacked kent in areas that he in the cosmic evolution he didn't
he didn't talk about evolution he just talked about big bang cosmology and how we can know
light from stars is you know x amount of x amount of way and stuff well kent was desperate to talk
about evolution in those debates he wanted to so badly he was pivoting real bad just um
i just a shout out and i'll put up a link in the description if anyone wants wants to
read this book it's a fantastic book uh arun rah he'd be a dream dream guest on the deep drinks
podcast um it's he's almost impossible to get in contact with though but um he uh this book is
fantastic i was really listening to the audible version last night it is um just it just goes over the
the controversy why it matters it goes over the foundational falses of creationism and i know
aj that you recommend this book as well so and you can see why a little posted notes at the top
here um but um yeah it's it's it's really fantastic um you get you get lovely quotes and they're
like um christians were like it's okay to lie if you're lying for jesus or we know that the
fossil record says x but we need to teach the kids that says y because it's important um yeah i was
able to do uh interview with aran um luckily but he is a very busy man um but yeah you know he was
a big inspiration for me it still is you know for why i started my channel and for for some of the
videos i do um so yeah you know great great book i i recommend the audiobook i feel i yeah the
audiobook is great on audible i feel like um you know i grow chilies i used to have like 50
different species of chilies in my backyard and as we know aran raha loves chilies i feel like if he
came on i'd have to incorporate chilies into it somewhere where we like almost like a hot ones
kind of thing where we're going up in different ranks of chilies but um but that's a dream interview
we'll get there one day i hope um but um uh yeah it's a great book great book great great guy um uh
uh yeah chilies baby back
there's um that's all that you said of the simpsons uh the uh there was an episode of the Austin
powers oh yeah true there was an episode of the simpsons um where they apparently ken hoven um you
know do you know the one it's like yeah yeah um i got my degree from christian tech uh yeah i've
got a degree in truthology from christian tech yeah that is ken hoven yeah yeah another thing um
before we jump into the video just one last thing i wanted to mention um is so there was this
there was he used to have this do you remember his little experiment that he used to run um he used
to have this like competition he would he would give anyone 250 grand if they could prove evolution
yeah do you remember that yes so so he got he i'm sure he got this idea from james randy if anyone
doesn't know who james randy is um james randy is um was he passed away a few years ago great man
and he would fight through their science he took down urigela um yeah um uh some preachers who were
obviously um uh listening to things in their ear and stuff yep to get his is great dude and he had
this competition for ages for years like 35 years or maybe longer i don't know it was a long time
where he would offer a million dollars to anyone that could prove anything supernatural and both
parties would agree to the terms beforehand and then they would run the experiments um and there's
heaps of them you can go on a little bit of pd page and you can see heaps of them and every time
none of the um no one could prove the supernatural exists under their own testing conditions so they
go yep i'm a medium i can do this and then you know um he would say okay well if you could do this
does that mean you could do x y z and they go yep and they go okay let's put in a testing
environment and they would test every time it would fail every single time mediums where they
wouldn't or they wouldn't show up yeah or they wouldn't show up yeah or they would refuse to um
do it you know um and it went for ages so ken thought i'm pretty sure he had to have got the
idea from that he said prove to me that evolution uh is prove and he'd say well you know 250 000
anyone who can prove that evolution is true but the problem is when you actually looked at the
requirements for what you needed to do to prove evolution was true they were ridiculous so this
is a great example of of what we're going to go into which is surface level um oh yeah that sounds
interesting yeah no one can prove evolution is true but when you look into the details like
we were with this video it it's all bad news so time this is the first first thing you needed
to prove to prove evolution was true time space and matter came into existence by themselves
i don't know who thinks that at all planets and stars formed from space dust okay so like the
words the the you can see how he's gotten out here with everything matter created life by itself
so the word created there is like you know a problem early life forms learned to reproduce
themselves okay that maybe you could prove that one major changes occur between these
diverse life forms fish change to amphibians amphibians change to reptiles and reptiles change
to birds or mammals but the first point no one can prove that they came into existence by themselves
that's not something that you can prove that's impossible and that's not even part of evolution
at all the first 123 the first three things of the five do not have anything to do with evolution
yeah so um it's interesting that you brought up brought up james randy because the a big
distinction between ken's offer and james is any any potential person like uh any mystic or
i forget the word you used for those those people who mediums mediums uh any potential medium who
wanted to take the challenge james randy would allow them to see the check to check the bank
account number to see that the money was actually there to see that the offer was legitimate ken
hoban never did anything like that he would never let people know like the bank account number
or what bank it was or who was offering the money never he said that he had 10 judges who
would judge any entrance any um you know submissions he did he just said that they were scientists he
never said who they were uh they obviously never existed and another thing about those stipulations
is you also have to had to prove that god couldn't have done it like it's like uh okay like so you have
to presuppose that god exists already yeah and you know he like arin said that you have to
presuppose that god exists and since god has unlimited magic that means that it was just a
dis ingenuous bait and switch scam you know yeah it was just a show oh look nobody took
hoban's challenge so evolution must be false yeah okay let's um before we before i get too drunk
let's watch this um this video together and we can commentate on it all right um so just let me
know when you want to pause things um i'm just going to skip forward to the part where ken's talking
so are you familiar with this clip you probably sure that where did god come from yeah yeah so just
let us know when you want to mention anything or i'll stop when i think we should stop let's do the
minute we're supposed to do one question at a time which one would you like that was part of the format
for the debate so which which i want you to fill in the story of the rest of the beginning of the universe
god spiritual matter impact on material matter okay so two questions all right go ahead all right your
question where did god come from assumes that you're thinking of the wrong obviously it displays
that you're thinking of the wrong god because the god of the bible is not affected by time space or
matter if he's if he's affected by time space or matter he's not god time space and matter is
what we call a continuum all of them have to come into existence at the same instant because
they just stop there there's so much there's so much you'd have to dig into to this whole
stream could have just been about this video but there's so much you have to dig into there
everyone just said that is um yeah like wouldn't this be the same case for every god wouldn't this
be the same case for like the flying spaghetti monster or anything aren't you just like creating
this amorphous idea in your head and then projecting it in something that you excuse me that you can
never reach yeah he's just making these claims but he doesn't substantiate them he doesn't say why
this would be not the biblical god and you know it you know you don't separate time and space when
talking about big bang cosmology it's spacetime so you have something called the fabric of spacetime
and really we don't know if the universe is eternal if time is infinite or if time started when
the big bang happened when cosmic expansion started we really don't know so you can't say
that time and space have to come into existence at the same time because that's just when the big
bang happened that's just for us it's time starting but that's just on our human understanding
and matter didn't come into existence at that same time because when uh you know shortly after the
big bang it first started it was the entire universe was way way too hot for atomic nuclei like
protons and neutrons to be able to coalesce and form atomic bonds so without that you don't have any
solids you don't have any gas you don't have any liquids you don't have matter until many like
hundreds of thousands of years later when the universe cooled down and then you can have these
atomic nuclei forming and having electrical charges and bonds and then you get stuff like gases and
space dust forming solar nebula forming stars forming planets then you get matter it's not
instantly when the big bang starts well evolution's ways are above our ways and also i'm just
checking the experiment nope no life is formed so unfortunately it's looking like kent's uh kent might
have might might be on point with this one he might be accurate anyway let's keep watching there
but no space where would you put it if there were matter and space but no time when would you put it
you cannot have time space or matter independently they have to come into existence simultaneously
the bible answers that in 10 that's cute when he tries to use logic like when he tries to like make
things fit words i mean i'll i'll tell you where you could put it kent beginning or time god created
the heaven their space and the earth there's matter so you have time space matter created a
trinity of trinity's there just you know time is past present future space has length width height
matter has solid liquid gas you have a trinity of trinity's created instantaneously and the god who created
them has to be outside of them if he's never wind that just a little bit like when he started doing
the trinity's part yeah her time god created the heaven her space and the earth there's matter
so you have time space matter created a trinity of trinity's there just you know time is past present
future space has length width height matter has solid liquid gas you have a trinity of trinity's
created instantaneously and the god who created them has to be outside of them if he's limited
by time he's not god the guy who created this computer is not in the computer he's not running
around and they're changing the numbers on the screen okay but so but the thing is he believes
that so there's not a man in the computer running around changing numbers on the screen right but
he also believes that god did need to come into the computer in the form of his son so so god needed
to send himself down to sacrifice himself to himself to serve as a loophole for rules that he
created that he can't circumvent yeah not to mention the fact that god appeared to actual humans
multiple times in the old testament he appeared as a pillar of smoke by day in a volcano by night
when he was when moses was you know going following the pillar of smoke to eventually climb
up the mountain and get the tent commandments and he appeared as a burning bush so i don't see
how that's not god being affected by matter or affecting matter you know he appeared in the clouds
he appeared you know he was like mufasa and the lion king you know
someone asked a very important question is that a space tie i can't tell because this video is
240p but if it is that's amazing the god who created this universe is outside of the universe
he's above it beyond it in it through it he's he's unaffected by it just i need to stop
really quickly this is something i get into with the um with the muslims when i debate them on
tiktok as well is they will they will say that we need to be created by something we need to be
created we need to be created something need a little creator let's keep saying this and i say who
created god and they said well god just was and i say why don't you just cut out the middle man and
say we just were the universe just was like why do you need to add a third third thing he's like
because it makes no sense well nothing makes sense when you get to that level of like that level of like
foundational like reality like nothing makes sense nothing makes sense like
when you when you go like to us when it's like oh yeah before big bang there was no time what like
that makes nothing you're not talking about like regular like day to day like stuff anymore you're
talking about like really complex like unworldly by definition but like in like conceptualizations
of like this bizarre and very different like scenarios like you're not something you need to
be created that makes no sense like to try and project our it's like saying like well doesn't god
need a mobile phone how's he gonna call talk to people what are you talking about like you just
you're projecting what you're where we are now back to like billions of years like um and you know
foundational elements of how things started well if god doesn't exist if he exists outside of
reality and not within our reality then he doesn't exist in our reality
yeah that's a good point so for the concept that a spiritual force cannot have any effect
on a material body well then i guess you'd have to explain to me things like emotions and love
and hatred and envy and jealousy and rationality
i mean that's easy yeah i can explain emotions emotions are
caused often by hormones uh and love we know is something that is caused specifically by
i think a hormone called oxytocin we know feelings of happiness and elatedness euphoria
caused by dopamine and serotonin uh and you know love is basically something that is
part of an evolutionary mechanism so evolution has encouraged living organisms on earth
you know something that darwin called favored races the organisms that have survived that are
living today that you need to reproduce you need to live you need to survive long enough
to reproduce preferably more than once and pass on your genes and keep the species alive so
that is going to manifest itself in humans because we're a little bit more complex than
a lot of animal species who will basically just have sex and just get the job done you know we
uh have emotions and love is basically a biological function that causes two people to mate it
involves or or to um become mates part of it is pheromones part of it is uh you know not i mean
maybe there's part of it that can't be explained by science but it's not explained by god either and i mean
it's not it's also like it's not you're right like we have these emotions but it's not just all
about biological like you know if you know like if two people um uh are in love they might
they're not just mating for procreation like they're doing it for fun as well and in fact sometimes
when one partner doesn't want to um have have sex in the other part of part of it does they might
just whack them off and you know and we know kent loves to whack off atheists so it's like
these things you do that to people you love you whack them off if they're not in the mood to
do more than whack them off you know so and another great example of um of uh chemistry is
now that we're you know 90 minutes into an interview i'm talking about whacking off too much
and i've had um and that's because i've been affected by this um margarita this this the
chemistry in this margarita has affected my brain so much that uh so much so that um i'm now talking
about kent whacking off hate this too much my grandfather is like david what sorry we better end
this soon but yeah just just hit play i mean if your brain is just a random collection of chemicals
that form by chance over billions of years how on earth can you trust your own reasoning processes
and the thoughts that you you think okay so um let me guess that you can answer that your question
yeah well um i don't think that it's simply a random collection of chemicals we know based on
evolution that we have a brain that you could say is structured in three layers so we have the
internal smallest layer is something that's called a retellian cortex that takes care of your most basic
unconscious functions like breathing while you're asleep keeping your heart beating your blood pumping
maybe even like blinking or producing saliva and you know releasing stomach acid stuff that you
don't even think about our most base level functions but stuff that we need to do to keep
ourselves alive and then you sort of have another layer wrapped around that um that is uh
i forget the name of that one but and then we have a third layer that is like our neocortex
where you have higher level thinking you have emotions you have memories being stored um you have
things that that the higher level brain tissue the neurons that allow us to do things like playing
the piano having conversations like you and me are having right now build computers you know do
advance things that other animals simply can't do so it's not random it mat it correlates with
evolution because we know that there was a time when there was no mammals on the earth there was
none there was reptiles and then we had something called the reptile mammal transition and we had
cow lizards and we had lizard dogs we have fossils to show this like this happened
the reptile mammal transition is very well documented so it it makes sense like it follows
that if human beings evolved along this pattern that we would have a reptilian brain wrapped in
sort of a mammal brain and then that wrapped in the brain of something like homo sapiens sapiens like
wise men who have a higher level function than other mammals who are not as intelligent as we are
so i don't think it's random it's not chance it's like when kent says that evolution is
is chance natural selection isn't chance it's not random chance that an animal in a cold environment
that has thicker fur will have a better survival chance than one that has
short fur that's not random chance that's totally logical and it makes sense
you just want to blim a little bit that's that's really interesting yeah i didn't know i didn't i never
conceptualized that with like the lizard brain you know when people say lizard brain i never
conceptualized it like that i'm gonna i'm gonna have to look into some things that's that's really
interesting um wow okay let's finish this clip
i'd come from is assuming a limited god and that's your problem the god that i worship is not
limited by time spacer matter if i could fit the infinite god in my three pound brain he would not
be worth worshiping that's for certain so that's the god that i worship thank you
that seems like a cop out in my opinion but just to uh finish what i was saying a second ago
so you have we have the reptilian or primal brain so it's called the triune brain uh so that's
called the basal ganglia and then we the the layer outside of that is called the paleo mammalian
or emotional brain which is the limbic system that's what i couldn't take out and then after that is the
neo mammalian or the new mammal brain or rational brain which is the neocortex so yeah um but yeah
like why why couldn't we have a god that we could understand wouldn't that be much better if god
had specific rules for us to follow or else we're going to burn in hell
i would want to be able to commune that god to communicate clearly what those rules are i don't
want to i want to be able to understand i think that's a cop out you know that god works in mysterious ways
well fuck that yeah and it's also it's also frustrating because like they'll say that we need
um we need that we need people god wants us to have faith right because if we didn't if we
if he just showed us himself um if he just appeared my gosh this sorry this to kill is really
affecting me obviously um if he just if he just showed i haven't eaten anything today either and
it's like it was 10 a.m when i started 11 a.m where um if he if he just showed us if he just appeared
to us right um we could still reject him like satan did right but they'll say like no if he appears
to us everyone will just believe him or whatever it's like no well satan rejected god like you can still
reject god even if he was like 100% there in the room right like you you don't need to have faith
like faith isn't required for rejection or acceptance um it's the it's it's kind of the
argument of divine hiddenness um that um it's matt mattel hunty's favorite i'm pretty sure yeah i just
find that's so bizarre though that if i could understand my god he wouldn't be worth worshiping
okay that's weird you're weird kent and your suit your suit is ugly you're not ron burgundy
nah it slaps he's got his drips it's a hoven drips hoven drips
um so i'm gonna we're gonna wrap up now because i promise you we wouldn't go over 90 minutes and we have by a minute 30 sorry um but
um if everyone wants to go over to aj's channel atheis junior and check out yourself like if you've enjoyed
any of this commentary um he does it all the time um on his youtube channel it's awesome go check it out
he's making constantly making content keeping him up to date um especially with what's going on with
kent at the moment um he's court cases everything like that he's also got another video coming out with pola
jea soon um that's that's going to be an exciting one um and uh yeah so everyone go make sure you go check out
atheis juniors channel yeah thank you so much you know this is a lot of fun so thank you for inviting me on
um and i know i can tend to ramble a lot sometimes but uh i enjoyed it you know thank you for
giving me the opportunity to come on here and just uh blab you know that was it's it's been fantastic i've
really enjoyed this interview it's a it's uh it's something that you just see a smile on my face
the whole time because if it's anything i love it's um it's ripping on bad faith actors and kent hoven is
a bad faith actor um in my opinion um so one just to end uh normally i'll put the outro video on
now um but i really really want to be whacked off by kent hoven and uh i sent him this video 53 times
to his emails to his facebook to his twitter to his um his staff's emails like i tried everything
like every time he released a video i posted the links in the youtube 53 times i sent it to him um
and he never responded and at this time i was trying to be a lot more reasonable um a lot more
calm and collected until i found out the stuff i've found out now um so we're going to end
i'm going to play that video uh as we we head off so uh but but before we do that aj is any last words
you want to say i will say um just make a video titled uh the three best evidences for evolution
and um you know maybe uh you know maybe we could maybe i could re upload one of your videos
and then kent will see it because kent literally watches every video come out with
so maybe we might be able to take a clip a clip from this and uh and send to um as well
i will feel free to clip anything of this that you like uh also we've got to check uh has life evolved
oh maybe look aj man i might be on kent's side now life hasn't evolved in this cup so and there's
billions of experiments happening um uh i don't know what to do you know another one bites the dust
okay well thanks everyone for coming out thanks for cheering in and we're going to end
with my video um asking i'm talking about kent hoven's evidences for young earth creationism
so see everyone bye okay so kent hoven just released his six evidences for young earth creationism
and i'm really excited to check this out because i'm working on a video at the moment
where i'm asking for creationists to give evidence for creationism not just against evolution
or against our current understanding of biology or genetic continental drift or anything like that
i want evidence for creationism kent hoven has been in this game for a while he's one of the most
popular young earth creationists that has ever existed so i'm imagining his evidence should be
quite strong for creationism so let's go i think the very best evidence of what some people call a
young earth is god said he did it in six days and nothing died until adam sin and jesus said that was
the beginning of the creation so the best evidence of a young earth is the bible the bible certainly
the dates in genesis five and genesis 11 so his number one evidence is the bible and i want to leave
this evidence for the last part of the video and i want to check out all these other evidences first
the population of the earth today is growing but if you do the math and go backwards in time
you can make everybody on the planet from eight people getting off and always are 4500 years ago
been here for millions of years why aren't there a whole lot more people
population is a great indicator that man has not been here for millions of years so that argument
isn't actually an argument for creationism per se is an argument against population statistics
and our current understanding of how long humans have been on this earth which is about 300 000 years
so just to explain further if evolution was proven to be completely false
that would not add any credence to creationism creationism doesn't just win by default you need
to give evidence for creationism and how we build theories and science to be start with a hypothesis
then we test that hypothesis under certain conditions and we then build a novel testable
predictions and run those predictions through peer reviewed studies placebo controlled trials
double blind experiments and the more novel the prediction is if we test it and it comes true
the higher likelihood that that is an accurate representation of a universe you look at the
genetic load that's increasing in the gene pool of people you say wow this can't have been going on
for a long time once again he's using this argument genetic load to say this can't be
happening for a long time so that's an argument against evolution not necessarily for creationism
you can look at the sun the sun is burning up its fuel source obviously it's burning and it's shrinking
because of its burning up its fuel and it is not only shrinking it is throwing off five million
tons a second it's losing weight well if your son's been losing weight for billions of years
if you get back in time in your imagination the sun would be much heavier making gravity stronger
sucking all the planets in so once again that's not an argument for creationism that's an
argument against billions of years well you look at the moon the moon's going around the earth but
the moon's getting further away from the earth okay well that means it used to be closer if once
again this is arguments against an old earth this is an arguments for young earth creationism and i
thought this was six evidences of young earth creationism i'm a bit confused and look at the earth
itself the earth is spinning but it slows down many young earth creationists actually accept a flat
earth model instead of the model that we currently accept in science so a lot of young
earth creations would actually disagree with you here can't but to me the very best evidence that
the earth is six thousand years old is exactly what god he's the guy who did it okay so we haven't
actually seen any evidence for creationism except for the bible everything else is just an attempt
to try and pull apart our current understanding of billions of years evolution biology natural
selection tectonic plates etc it's not necessarily an argument for creationism it's just an argument
against an old earth so the only arguments he actually gave for creationism was the bible so
let's address his one piece of evidence for creationism the bible now i'm confused why you
chose the bible and not the kesh temple hymn written in two thousand five hundred and sixty bc or the
epic of gilgamesh written two thousand one hundred and fifty bc or the rig vader written between
fifteen hundred and two thousand one hundred bce these are much older texts than the bible and
they talk about god and the creation account genesis was written in six hundred five hundred bce
when israel was in captivity by the babelonians another thing is if we take the bible literally
we run into all sorts of problems so for example genesis also has a talking snake which unless
they change a lot physiologically would be quite hard for a snake to do kent hoven also produced
a book called what on earth is about to happen for heaven's sake a dissertation on end times according
to the holy bible now i want to highlight the word there about see if we take a literal interpretation
of the bible as kent hoven does we can do some pretty interesting maths that kind of show the
silliness of the whole endeavor so genesis twenty two seventeen says that abraham's descendants will
outnumber the stars in the sky if we take a poetic license for this verse which you could with
all the six day creation account you would get to just the stars that you could see in the sky
but let's take a literal interpretation as kent hovened is taking with the other parts of the
bible in the universe we have approximately 200 billion trillion stars our current rate of growth
although it is slowing is 81 million people per year so before the end can come abraham's descendants
must outnumber the stars in the sky because that's what god promised abraham if you take a
literal interpretation to the bible and based on our current population growth rates we would need
to quadrillion 469 trillion 135 billion 800 million years before the end will come now i haven't
read kent hoven's books but i believe that he's probably playing fast and loose with the term
about to happen the other problem with kent hoven's argument is the bible has been disproven at least
from a scientific perspective you can check my video here for some of the history and contradictions
that we find in the bible however none of this is a problem if you don't subscribe to the bible as a
literal perfect text and many creationists don't do that so if you are a creationist and you do want
to marry up the scientific evidence we have for the universe with your faith some links in the description
as always thanks for checking out the video guys and i'll see you next time
