Welcome to Deep Drinks Podcast, let's do this.
Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcast, I'm Dave McDonald and this is where the
conversations are deep and the drinks are deeper. Today my guest is Dr. Joshua Bowen,
a huge friend of the show, everyone knows him, but for those who don't, he's a serialogist,
Hebrew Bible scholar, author and good friend of the show. Earlier in the life, a Dr. Josh served
as a chaplain in the United States Air Force, a pastor, as well as a pastor. And now Josh spends
most of his time helping people have historically accurate conversations about the Near East and
the Hebrew Bible. His most recent work is an extensive update to his book on slavery.
He to talk about it is my friend Dr. Josh Bowen. Welcome. Thank you for having me back.
I'm loving your new bow tie. This is amazing image of Derek Talk of you and
Kip in production. I looked at it and I was like, so you got Dr. Josh looks like Bill
Nye the science guy because he's a serialogist guy. And then Dr. Kip Davis looks like a pirate.
He's got the goatee and the bandana. And I was just like, this is so great. I love the image
so much. It's like one of my favorites. No, but both of you guys will be on a show here soon
talking about creation and apology. And that'll be really good as well. But Dr. Josh, thank you
again so much for coming on. And thank you. What are we drinking today?
I'm going way out on the edge having coffee and I have it in my badass coffee mug.
What does it say with this? Do you ever watch?
Why am I blanking on the name of the show? Arrested Development?
No, I haven't. And his name is Franklin. And that's one of the lines. He says,
they're never going to let you in the country club with that thing. I don't want no part of your
tired ass country club, you freak bitch. Sorry. That's great. So we're talking about slavery again.
The first question I have is why? This subject just exists, doesn't it? And we did a panel where
we demolished the subject. But of course, it didn't do what I hoped, which was to end the
conversation for good. I actually have a meme with Bill Murray in Groundhog Day.
He's standing there and he says, well, you know, it's Groundhog Day again, but I've got it at the
top. It says, well, we're talking about slavery again. It's so, I mean, do you ever think you'd
be the slavery guy? You've become essentially like the guy that just talks about, like,
because you've read a book on it, now like, you just get pulled into this conversation,
like, is your psyche okay? Like, constantly. But this is, it's this terrible, horrible,
vicious cycle, because this is why I keep talking about it. Because, like, I did a
podcast episode on the Canadian atheist yesterday, I think. And if you haven't
listened to that, everybody go check that out. It was a great show. But, like, I really did think
that the first time that I would, that I talked to an apologist about this,
point out the past, just here you go, look, this is what it says, and that they would, they would go,
oh my gosh, like, once they got to the point where they were like, it really does say slavery,
that they would say, well, like, I gotta rethink this whole way that I interpret,
you know, the Bible. No, what they're doing is they're going,
damn, maybe slavery isn't so bad. Maybe we need to think of ways that we can incorporate slavery
into our theology. So, yeah, that's why this keeps coming up.
That's, it's, that, that is like, scary to me, that's at that level where, because this isn't a,
you know, the Bible could still, you know, condone, endorse slavery from a theological
perspective and still be the words of God, maybe, you know, you could even find a way to, you know,
when your lovely wife, Megan, was on the show, I asked her about things like,
sorry, you can hear my beagle barking, but I bet like, LGBT rights and things like that,
and she has a very different perspective than, I guess, a fundamentalist Christian.
But, but, but it's like, so it's like, there are ways to interpret, and Megan's a Christian,
so it's like, there are ways to interpret, well, at least last time I checked,
but there are ways to interpret the Bible to, to make it so it's not like
inspired, like perfectly inspired word of God, right? Even if, even if it is, right, like somebody
actually emailed me a couple days ago and asked that very question, like, look, I know you're not
a Christian, but I know you used to be, what, how would you, how would you understand, like, what,
what do you think if you were a Christian, if you could put yourself back in that mindset,
what would your best explain, how would you understand the slavery problem? And I don't think
that this, you know, like solves the issue, I think there are problems with it, but the position
that I would probably take is, look, like, God operates within the time, right? And he, he,
he condescends to people, and that, like, it doesn't say anything about, you know, the,
like, nobody, I'm not an ethicist, right? So, but in my opinion, like nobody should be going
back and saying, those terrible Neo Assyrians, you know, those horrible Neo Babylonians, they
weren't as morally sophisticated as I am, right? Like, we should be saying, thank God, or thank Frank,
or whatever, you know, that, that we have as a, as a, as a culture, as a, as a, as a species,
like, we have advanced in our understanding of morality, like we've, we've been able to stand
on the shoulders of people that had come before, we'd watched, we've watched horrible, atrocious
things happen in our past, and we've gone, damn, can't do that again, right? And, and we should say,
it sucks that people had to live that way. And, and, but we, like, I, I don't think it's the right
thing to do. And like, I, again, not my field, I'm sure somebody can make arguments about this,
but just the way that I see this, like, we should not be going back and trying to say,
horrible, horrible human beings, I wouldn't have done that, because I think bullshit,
that you would have, you'd have done all that stuff, right? Like, I mean, on the whole, what,
what societies did, I think you would have, you know, I think you would have done the same sorts
of things. And I, and so I just, like, that's not my game, right? That's not what I, that's
not what I think is the right thing. I don't think we should be condemning the Sumerian,
you know, Sumerian culture. I think we should be condemning, you know,
Canadians, you know, Syrian culture, Babylonian culture. I don't think we should be condemning,
you know, people, ancient Israelite culture, early Christianity, like, that's not the point.
The point is to be able to say, okay, look, these are ancient texts,
and they can be and are obviously, for many, many people, sacred texts, and that's okay.
We just have to be wise about how we use them. Like Gilgamesh is a really important story,
and I think it's, like, it means a lot to me. And I think that that's okay. I think that's good.
It's just how we interpret it is really important. And I think learning how to come to ancient texts
and to say, yeah, I think this can be inspired by a deity. It's just I don't have to slavishly
interpret it the way that a fundamentalist does, right? I can, I can, I can nuance that,
and I can say, so to bring it back to my point, if I went back to Christianity,
or to Judaism, like, not back to Judaism, but if I went to Judaism, like, I would probably
understand this in the way of, okay, look, like God works within the framework of the people and
the cultures that he's, that he's interacting with. And, and, and so he uses imperfect beings,
and he gives them what he thinks they can handle, and then he moves them out of it.
And, like, I don't think we should be judging that. I think, though, it's important that we
don't say, okay, snapshot, here's a set of laws that, you know, that, that, that, that Hammurabi
put down, you know, in the 18th century. Well, this is what we should be living by. And let's
just go line by line and re-institute all this stuff, you know, horrible patriarchy and everything.
Like, no. And I don't think we should do that with the middle Assyrian laws. I don't think we
should do that with Neo Babylonian laws. I don't think we should do that with the laws of the Hebrew
Bible. I think that, like, think about, and I'll shut up, but, like, think about what Judaism has
done. And I'm not a, obviously not an expert on, like, Talmudic or rabbinic sources. But, like,
think about what the rabbis have done over the years. They've, they've worked with the text,
and they thought about it in relation to their time and their culture. And they've said, let's,
let's wrestle with this. Let's, let's debate about it. Let's think about it. How can it apply here?
And I think that's a beautiful thing. And so anyway, I just, that the danger is when you drive
your stake in the ground and you say, my interpretation, based on this ancient text,
we have to live just this way, according to my very fundamentalist, literalist interpretation.
And so do you. And I'm good. They're going to be violent consequences, ultimately, I think.
If that's not, you know, adhere to. So anyway, that's my three cents that you didn't really ask for.
But I, no, no, I love your three cents. Give us all the cents. But I think that
I actually agree for the most part, but I would actually word it a little differently personally,
which might see how this sits with you. I still look at the past, the genocide of slavery and
all that stuff and say they were immoral. They're atrocious. They're horrible. But I'm hoping that
someone looks at myself, deep drinks, everything that we're doing now and says the same thing in
the future. I hope society progresses. I hope there are things that I'm doing right now that
would be considered immoral in the future. It's just I'm just I haven't recognized that because
society will hopefully become more fairer and fairer in the future. So that's how I
this is like, we are now in the perfect state of morality. Sure. Sure. And to new ones like,
oh, sorry, David, go ahead. Sorry. Well, I was just going to say like it's a journey. So like,
and this is one thing I also want to point out is we had Nuri Khan talking about the ethics of
myself and Nuri to talk about the ethics of Islam the other day. And it's really hard to talk about
that and not come across as like Islamophobic, because we essentially are being Islamophobic
in some ways in that we're kind of critiquing the ethics that are in the Quran with our modern
lenses. But it's the but the thing I guess to remember is the people under those ideologies
are the ones that are being affected. And it's just like, it's this it's this tight rope of like,
you know, for example, to go into the Islam thing, it's like, well, I want to make sure
that society is fair for women because of my moral perspective. And then that conflicts with
some of the things in some religions, and then you critique those religions, but then you don't
want to be you don't want to like, you know, religions very sacred to people, you don't want
to like, sure, it's this, it's a very hard, of course. Yeah, sorry, I interrupt, I kind of interrupt.
I believe me, I interrupted you. I just I think like a really, probably not a terribly
contentious example of this would be like spanking, right, or beating with a switch or
something like that. Like, you know, when I was growing up, it was we were starting to like,
work out of that, right? But my dad's generation, very much, you know, go break a switch off the
tree or whatever. But like, no, no one, in my opinion, no one should look back at my dad when
he spanked me. And, and connect what we now think is immoral behavior with an immoral person.
And I think those are very different things. Because I think that my dad thought he was doing
the right thing. And based on his cultural context, based on what he understood about
morality, he thought he was doing the right thing. Does that mean that it was the right thing?
No. But I think we have to draw the distinction. And I think where people maybe go awry here.
And I'm sure that I have been guilty of this, like, you know, this is not like,
what is it, like virtue signaling or something, right? I'm not definitely not trying to do that.
I think you're perfect, like, open those eyes and I go.
But I just think that we need to be able to say yes. You know, first Samuel 15, right, if we're
understanding that passage in this fundamentalist way, that is, that is an act that we bet not
repeat, right? That is genocide. It's horrible. Like that is that that as we understand it today,
immoral action. But I think then trying to tie that back to a people, right? First of all,
like, probably not a historical event, right? So like trying to cast dispersions on a group of
ancient people because of a text that has a theological point to it. Bad idea, right? But I
think being able to draw the distinction between, look, you read through the proverbs and it says,
if you don't beat your son with or beat your child with a wooden rod, you hate them, right?
Yeah. And and to say, man, what a group of immoral people. No, miss me with that shit,
right? As Joe Bain would say. No, it's it's it's yeah, we now know, because of our experiences,
and I swear I'll shut up, but like because of our experiences and what we've had the privilege to
learn and to understand. Yeah, that's not good, right? So we should leave that behind. But that
doesn't mean that we should demonize the people that didn't understand that, right? I just I
think it's a it's a much more nuanced thing that we need to anyway. Yeah, this is no,
don't apologize. It's um, exactly what we do. But it's um, you're just hitting the nail on the head
so clearly. And it's it's this, um, it's this, it's this, um, you, I'm gonna, I'm just gonna, I'm
gonna go on a rant. I'm not gonna go on another rant, but I really appreciate you, Josh. That's
great. I think that people can see where you're coming from. We have a, we have a, um, a chat
from, I don't know, bring up chats, but I'll bring it up from Vishanti. As a Jew, I appreciate
Josh's understanding of our relationship with the Torah constantly evolves and adapts over time,
turn it and turn it again, as I say, just say. And that's great. That's that's really, that's
really awesome. Somebody made a comment. Sorry, I just have to somebody made a comment on Club
House recently. Um, and they said something like, and look, like here in the Talmud, you know,
one rabbi says this, but then there's this other rabbi that says something completely
different. There's no continuity. And I was just like, yeah, it's tell me you don't understand
how the Talmud works without telling me you don't understand how the Talmud works. I am
obviously not a Talmudic expert, but it's just like, Oh my God, like that's how it functions.
Like, anyway, well, it's, it's one of those things where, and maybe I think the frustration,
I guess, a lot of, where a lot of atheists are coming from is, or people who, I guess, are
critical of these texts is, is that they're presented, I guess, at least in the West,
at least in the churches that I've been part of as like the perfect Word of God, like these were
instructions from God. And when you view it that way, that, that even though God wasn't working
in the time that, you know, there's verses that say that, you know, God's laws never change.
Or, you know, like, when you, when you view it like that, things have to become a conspiracy,
like Adam and Eve has to become, sorry, evolution has to become a conspiracy because
obviously Adam and Eve existed 6,000 years ago. You know, the, you know, I've had conversations
with Christians who posit that maybe all the genocide was just to the Nephilim. So like these
groups of people were like Nephilim, like half fallen angels, like, so like there, and it becomes
this, like, it becomes this thing where I just got to the stage once when I was like,
I kind of got offended on God's behalf. I'm not convinced of God's existence, but it's like,
if you believe the creator of the universe, in one breath you're saying there is this all-powerful,
all-knowing, amazing creator of the universe who has this really important message for society,
and for everyone on earth, and he's, he knows everything, so he's the best way that he could
think of to instill this message onto people's hearts is not to just give it to them when they're
born, like, you know, that I know these are my hands, I could know the whole Torah if I want to,
but to put it in like a book that then gets translated and translated again, and then has like
verses that fit for like a certain group, and like it just seems like juvenile, and it seems like
insulting to God, it's like, it's like you're teasing God, like, I often say that, like, if you,
if you think that like the global flood was like a real thing, that God needed to kill every animal
because of man's sin, like, you kind of dissing God, like, it's kind of saying like God wasn't
smart enough to just be able to create a better environment, like, and I don't know, like, it's
just, it just, it's, it's, it actually makes God to be very small, I find, again, I don't believe in
God, but yeah. I think that's why, I think that's why I'm very emphatic, that the work that I do
in these contexts is almost exclusively, not completely, I suppose, there are some nuances
to that, but for the most part, particularly when it comes to like moral issues, my work is against
fundamentalist evangelicals, and the reason that that's the case is because the only group that I
know of that's trying to like slavishly hold to, when it's the only group that has people in it,
maybe that, maybe that's the way to say that, the only group that has people in it that says
things like, hey, we should still have slavery, right, like, I don't know of any other, I don't
have any other religious group that's doing that. I mean, like, I'm not like a religion expert,
so maybe there are, but like, in my day-to-day encounters, and these are people that I, like,
a lot of these people, I love dearly, right, people in my family, people on social media that I
engage with, I mean, there's some of these people, like, they're kind, sounds weird, they're kind,
loving people, but their interpretive approach to the text, it like, logically takes them
necessarily, if they follow it through, down these paths, and they follow it through, and they go,
well, I mean, a lot of them will go, well, I mean, it goes against my intuitions, I hear that a lot,
it goes against my intuitions, but I mean, the Bible says it, so, and that's where I think it
becomes really problematic, so anyway, when I talk about this, this guy, I guess it's good to
couch it on this, that's why when I talk about something like slavery, I'm not trying to come
down on any age group of people at all, what I'm doing is I'm saying to a modern group of people
that has this very particular interpretive approach, hey, don't do that, right, let that text
do what it's supposed to do, supposed is not the right word, maybe, but
think about it differently. Think about this differently, please, right, because allow your
moral intuitions, not an ethicist, and I keep saying that, but allow your moral intuitions
to have a much greater influence on you, right, let it tell you things like, man, even though my
interpretive approach has taken me down this path where I either have to say I'm understanding this
incorrectly through my interpretive model, or slavery's good, go with the former, right, think
maybe my interpretive model needs to be tweaked a little bit, don't default to, I guess, slavery's
okay. Yeah, it's funny that you bring that up, because I'm doing a video with Derek tomorrow,
we're recording it, and it's going to be, I guess, my story, it'll be for his channel,
it'll be like my story, but told through three Bible verses that gave me trouble when I was
deconstructing. Oh, awesome. Through that, and just spoiler alert for anyone, a big one for me was
when you're in ministry college, you've got to read through the Bible, or at least we did,
and you kind of do it so fast, because you just try and, you've got so many assignments, and so
you just, you don't really pick up everything. After ministry college, I tried to read the
New Testament again, and it was the first time I, like, sat down and read it properly, I think,
from start to finish, and I got to 1 Timothy, I think it was, 1 Timothy 3, maybe, where it says
that women and adults have authority over men, and I was like, oh yeah, I know the apologetics
to this, that was for a time, that was not for now, that was because the women were separate
from the men, and they just reached over the aisle and talk, and so I knew the apologetics,
I'm like, okay, cool, so like, obviously, ignore what this part says. At the same time,
one of my friends was closeted for 45 years, one of my friends from ministry college was a gay man,
closeted, never had a partner, never had any type of relationship, and was seriously struggling with
this, and I was like, I came to someone in church, I came to a lady, I said, hey, what about this
verse? I was like, why was that for a time, but the homosexuality laws are not for a time,
and then she gave me the apologetics explaining, but then I kept reading in that verse, and it says,
for Eve was deceived first, and that's the reason, and it says, but women will be saved
through childbearing if they remain in the faith, and I was like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa,
pump and break, and I was like, it gives the reason, the reason isn't because they're like
hanging, and that reason's still valid, Eve was still deceived first now, as she was,
as they, you know, the concept was back then, so it was very confusing, I was like, hang on,
and then I realized like, if I'm reading this correctly, I disagree with it, I don't think
women should be subservient to men, I don't think women should not have the right to speak in church,
I don't think, and then I thought to myself, if I don't agree with this, I need to either correct
myself, or I need to work out why I don't agree with this, because something's going on, and I was
honest enough with myself to kind of work that out, and that's what I imagine you're hoping for
with your, with people who have the correct context of the Hebrew Bible, with some of these laws.
Is that right? Yeah, yeah, and I saw Vishanti put a super chat up, and actually I thought that was
is really, probably a really good way to sort of address this, if not off topic, oh sorry,
you should probably read it. Oh, it's okay, if not off topic, I asked Dr. Josh to explain the
flood as a polemic against other A&E flood stories. This is like, this is, thank you Vishanti, this
is a perfect example of understanding ancient texts in their context, right? This is a way, for
any fundamentalist listening to this, here is a way that you can still hold the text as sacred
and even inspired by God, and not think that the earth is literally 6,000 years old and flooded
globally, right? Texts do things, and if you go to like myth vision, for example, he's doing a whole
series on Genesis 1 through 11, he's been working through it, of course I have a whole chapter in
the second volume of the atheist handbook to the Old Testament on this particular topic,
but Genesis 1 through 11, the primeval history, contains and is in and of itself in a long stretch
a polemic against earlier and contemporary Babylonian myths, right? And the flood tradition
in Genesis 6 through 9, it's not, this is where people go arrive, the title of my chapter is
Did the Old Testament Plage Your Eyes, or something like that, right? Because that's what a lot of,
I think atheists and skeptics like, which we're going to believe in, that one, yep, the first one
you picked up. Oh, sorry. Yeah, number two. I got a whole stack of me. Thank you.
But like people think, you know, they'll say things like Bronze Age goat herders, right? Or all
they were, you know, so dumb or whatever, like nonsense, right? The people that are writing
and editing these texts are like, like the brilliant people, they're incredibly creative and
imaginative. And they're thinking things through and doing things with these stories. So this story
about the flood, about the gods creating humans, and the humans are doing work, and they get really,
really loud, and they, and the gods like can't sleep, the particular one God and little can't
sleep. And so he decides to reduce humanity's numbers through like a plague and through this,
and a fan, all these things. And then he finally decides, you know what, it's not working because
somebody's helping the humans. I'm going to send a flood. And, and there's a God that still helps.
Enki helps the, or Aya in the Akkadian, helps humanity. And this one family or this, you know,
this one guy's wife survives the flood, right? With the animals. This tradition, it's found in
the story of Atrahasis from the Obablonian period, the early second millennium BCE. And in the story
of Gilgamesh, tablet 11 from the late second millennium BCE. This story, very well known to the
writers of the Hebrew Bible, at least this section of Genesis, said, we're going to use this story
and turn it on its head. So if you read, and I just challenge everybody to go do it, go Google,
or pick up the book by Benjamin Foster before the Muses, and read the story of Atrahasis,
right? And, and go read Benjamin Foster's new translation of the Epic of Gilgamesh and read
tablet 11. But again, you can get it all, I'm sure, just like Google it. I'm sure it'll come up in
translation. But read the story about the flood, and then go read the Genesis account, and there's
one thing that will stand out to you. I guess two things. One, you will see it's the same goddamn
story, right? You'll be like, oh my gosh, like, it's the same story, even sends out birds to figure
out when the, you know, the waters have gone down. But the thing that will stand out to you,
if you pay close attention, is the reason for the flood. And the reason for the flood in Atrahasis
and Gilgamesh is that humanity gets so numerous that they start making so much noise, and the
gods just can't take it, and they send a flood, and the god Enlil is said to have done a foolish
and a wicked thing. He acted rashly, right? And the other god, Aya, has to like come to the rescue.
Genesis, and I'll land with this, Genesis six through nine, particularly Genesis six, one to seven,
and five through seven in particular, makes it abundantly clear that humanity, not Yahweh, is
guilty, and the reason that the flood was sent, because every imagination of their hearts was
only wicked continually, right? Like it's them, and Yahweh is completely justified in sending
the flood. So they're turning the story on its head as a polemic and saying, yeah, your god acted
irrationally, your god acted wickedly, but Yahweh was completely just in sending the flood. And so
understanding the theological point behind the story allows you to say, look, there didn't have
to be an actual flood. This doesn't have to be history, right? We don't have to go dig down and
find a silt layer or something. I don't know what geologists would find, but whatever, like a flood
layer. We're not to find that. We can just say that God is using, through the inspiration,
if they're inspiring these writers to make the theological point, Yahweh was actually good
when he brought about this flood, right? God, Yahweh doesn't do evil things like the other deities.
Yahweh does good things. Anyway, sorry, that was a really long one.
Aren't there seashells at the top of mountains? Had explained that, Dr. Josh.
Checkmate atheists, checkmate. Isn't that one of Ken Hoven's? By the way, where is your
Ken Hoven? I haven't seen not Ken Hoven for a long time on TikTok, and that was my favorite.
Yeah, I haven't been on TikTok in a while.
I did do a short little thing with Apologyia today on that video that released,
a little Ken Hoven thing. Apologyia took a clip from our Deep Drinks episode and put it on Apologyia
Live, and I'm like, I've made it, Mom. I'm finally on it. I've made it on Apologyia Live. I've made it.
Oh, that's awesome. Like, I've technically been on Apologyia Live. Yeah. Congratulations.
Come full circle. That's awesome. So, getting into your book. So, I've read your book back when it
was the first edition, which this is the first edition. I'm looking forward to getting a, I'll
have to get a, I'll have to find a wedding assignment copy of the second edition. Definitely. It is,
first of all, Props to Megan. She designed the first cover and designed the second cover. Let me
just show it. This is the new version of the book, and first of all, it's available for pre-order
right now. Links are in the description. You can go check it out and pre-order this.
Can I just point out real quick, do you see, everybody see up there that little orange number
one new release thing? That is specifically because of you guys. When, so the more, can you scroll down,
actually, it should say it a little bit lower. Yeah, those numbers right there, sorry, up a little
bit, right there, under product details. That number, number 46 in atheism, number 85 in, I can't
read it, but Christian and Bible history and culture, 420 in Christian and Bible history.
The more pre-orders that that book gets, the lower those numbers go, which means Amazon,
in the algorithm goes, Oh, this is really popular. We got to push this out to more people.
And so it really does make a big difference. I know there are a lot of people out there
that are looking to get the paperback. And obviously, I really appreciate that.
We always try and you can only put the Kindle up for pre-order. And so like, obviously, I don't
want to, I don't know if you're going to, if you're going to buy the paperback, like, don't
please don't like go out and also buy the Kindle. But so tempted though, I'm so tempted.
But it really does, it really does boost those numbers. And of course, buying it once it comes
out also boosts those numbers. But there's something with the atheist handbook, like,
the numbers went way, way up because a bunch of people pre-ordered it. And so anyway, if you
are planning on getting the Kindle or, you know, we try to, all of our books, no matter how long
they get, we are whatever, we always price them at $9.99 so that they're affordable. And I said
this on the podcast and then I'll shut up. But if these books always end up on pirated
or like pirate sites, all of our books are there now.
Oh, no, you made it.
Yeah, yeah. And I said this on the podcast on the Canadian Ace Podcast. Like, I'm off two minds
about it. And so is Megan. Like, we want people obviously to have access to this information.
That's why we write it. And so like, I don't lie awake at night going, oh my gosh, we lost,
you know, money or whatever. But it, on the other hand, like it is a stream of income.
And so, yeah, but we do say to sort of strike a balance there. If people really can't afford
to buy the book, Kindle or whatever, email us. And we will send you a, like a secured PDF version
so you can have it for free. And people do take us up on that. Like, particularly with the Sumerian,
the Learn to Read Ancient Sumerian book, like it's, I think it's $30. So it's, you know, it's,
it's one of our, I think it is our most expensive book. It's because of the content.
Or maybe it's $25, I can't remember. But, you know, there are a lot of people that just can't
afford it. And so we end up sending PDFs to them. So, for real, for real, someone said, yes, absolutely
for real. You do so much for the community. I know, I won't go into detail, but I know
of times where people have struggled with financially and you guys have given hundreds of
dollars to support members of the community. You support myself on Patreon, which is, like,
incredible. You guys are, you guys are one of the 12 original,
for the disciples of DeepShrink. Yeah. So, you know, if there's anyone to support,
it's Dr. Josh. And I'm going to buy the Kindle version, even though I don't have a Kindle,
but then even though you sent me the PDF, but I want to support you. And I've got to get,
when the hardcover comes out, it's going to be right there on my shelf with Dr. Josh Books.
I've got a whole stack of Richard Dawkins books, because this place was selling all of them for,
like, all these second hand ones for, like, $20, so I just got the whole collection.
That's amazing.
And the next biggest collection, probably Hitchens and then you, so eventually.
Nice, nice.
But so, yeah, what did you add to this one? I know that you said, you told me that you wrote a whole
new first chapter. Yeah. So, the original book, I don't remember exactly, but, like,
it ends up being somewhere around 200, 250 pages, something like that, the first book.
This one, it's like 702. It tops out at or something. That's the Kindle, the Kindle page
I think, yeah. The bibliography, I think, I looked at it like 55 pages of bibliography.
So, the point of the book has always been to provide the reader
with a resource if they want to talk to primarily a fundamentalist evangelical
about slavery and to say, look, yeah, that apology of video that went up today,
there is a really, really popular Frank Turrick video that we responded to.
And actually, you may have played some of it in our panel, one of our panels,
but it's the one where he has, like, his, like, six things or whatever that he runs through in his
debate with Sam Harris. And they're all nonsense, right? And the point of the book is to,
hate to use the term arm, but to arm the reader with the ability to respond to those apologetic
arguments, those bad apologetic arguments. So, the first book did that. And then, like,
two years later, I realized, oh, my gosh, like, apologists are just throwing
everything they can up against the wall to see what sticks, right? And so, what I decided to do
was all the new research that I ended up doing, because this became, like, one of my things that
I just read everything about. I don't know if you can see it behind me. If people want to, like,
zoom in, or over here, you'll just see ancient Near Eastern law and slavery. It's just everywhere.
But the viewer can probably do it. The viewer can probably zoom in. But, like, yeah, I mean,
yeah, it's, you can see it, maybe. But anyway, just tons and tons of stuff about ancient Near Eastern
law and slavery. So, anything that comes out. In fact, this is, like, hot off the press,
2023 publication. Oh, this damn thing was, like, 140 bucks or something. But it has an article by
the Assyriologist, Seth Richardson, which was really, really important to get. And it's got
some other stuff in here that was really important. And I wanted to get it in the book.
Whoa. And sorry, it'll bother me if it's out of alignment behind me. But, like,
there was another book on, from the city of AMR on debt and indebtedness, but it had a section
on slavery that I really wanted to be able to cite in the book. That dumb thing was, like,
120 books. Like, academic books are very, very pricey. And so it's like, it's, it's like the
only thing that I spend my money on. But it's worth it, because I think what ends up happening in
these situations is that the reader can rest assured that if it's not in that bibliography,
you know, like, whenever you pick up an academic book, one of the nice things about a new publication
coming out is you can flip to the bibliography and say, what has come out, you know, sit up to
this point. And if they're good, you can pretty much know that all the major stuff that's come
out that says anything about this is probably in there. And I really try to do that. Okay. So
that's the point. And a friend of mine, Tom Rabbit, if, if you're familiar with him, he's on YouTube.
He has a channel where he, he put up a lot of dark Dawkins videos.
Oh, I love that. That makes one in the world.
But he did a debate recently on slavery. And he, what he said was, I'm gonna, he got my book.
And he said, I'm going to read and, and do this whole argument, just reading the first 32 pages.
He said, that's all the further I got. And that's really all I need to win this debate.
Which is really kind of nice. Yeah, the arrogance of him is amazing. It's, I, I, I love his,
um, yeah, we could go, we could do a whole segment on Dawkins, but oh, no, that was, that was Tom
Rabbit that said that. Tom Rabbit said, yeah, yeah, he said, I'm going to use Dr. Josh's book.
And I'm only going to need, I only need the first 32 pages to win this debate
and show that the Old Testament and their slavery. So anyway, that's the way the book is designed. So
okay. So I added a chapter on ancient Near Eastern law. And the reason that I did that,
besides the fact that there's an entire appendix that goes through,
how does it, it's probably like 200, 250 pages of every ancient Near Eastern law and a whole host
of different texts, contracts, administrative texts, literature, letters, all kinds of stuff
in translation that talk about slavery. So every law that deals with slavery and then a whole bunch
of other texts that deal with it in translation with commentary, including everything in the
Hebrew Bible that talks about slavery in the legal sections. Because I'm going through all of that
ancient Near Eastern law, what I wanted to do was sort of situate what ancient Near Eastern law
collections are for the reader. So I give a, like an overview of their contents, what they date to,
what they look like. And then I have a whole discussion in the chapter of what they were.
And the reason that I do that, besides just that introductory purpose, is because there's an
apologetic argument out there right now that says, if everybody's familiar with the laws of Hammurabi,
it's this big steely with this thing on top. And it's, it's like two meters tall, and it contains
282 laws from the 18th century BCE by, put down by King Hammurabi. And it's like, where we get
a lot of this eye for an eye tooth for a tooth, you know, language that people, people are familiar
with, amongst other things. And the question, you know, people thought originally, well, here,
you know, if this happens, then you should do this. And if that happens, then do this. Well,
they thought, well, these must just be like the laws of the land, right? And Hammurabi is promulgating
the laws. Well, a serial just have determined, you know, over the past like 70 years. It's probably
now what was going on. It's probably a lot more nuanced than that. And so there's, there's been
this movement away from them being like, laws that judges would go, okay, yeah. So your ox got,
you know, wandered in and so and so's field and ate from their vineyard. Okay, hang on a second.
Law of Hammurabi. Okay, it says here in law, you know, 215, that you're supposed to pay him back
double. Okay, so that bang the gavel, that's what's going to happen here. Like they weren't used that
way. Oh, that's how, that's how I imagine even the like the Old Testament, it's like unruly child,
bring him to the edge of town and stone them. Like I thought it was like, thus says the law kind of
thing. So, so this is this, thank you, it was a beautiful segue. So, so what what a serial just
have determined is like at least some of these law collections, many of these law collections
are maybe for propagandistic purposes, they're definitely scribal exercises, like there's this
whole other range that they fall into. Do they reflect law? Do they not reflect how law was
practiced? Like all these things are up for debate. So, okay, as you pointed out, if you go to the
Old Testament, go to the Hebrew Bible, you'll see like in Leviticus 25, that really famous slavery
chapter that has this really famous slavery section in there, it opens with like, and like,
you know, the Lord said or Yahweh said to, you know, they say this under the children of Israel,
right? So, I mean, it's, it's the way that it's set up in the narrative is these laws are coming
from Yahweh, right? They're, they're being handed down at Mount Sinai. So, in the narrative, they're
clearly intended to be this type of authoritative law, they're meant to be exactly that, right?
This is how you're supposed to do stuff, right? But because if we step out of the narrative,
and we say, okay, let's, let's look at this from a historical critical standpoint,
you know, what, what is this? Like, first of all, historically, critically, like,
Leviticus 25 is part of the holiness code, which is probably much, much later during the Persian
period, for example, right? So, later, much later in the, in the 1st millennium, certainly not back
at a Mount Sinai event in the late 2nd millennium. So, there's a difference between those two. The
problem is, an apologist, very cleverly, apologists have been saying, whoa, whoa, whoa, you know,
you're going to Leviticus 25, 44 to 46 and say, that's true male and female slaves,
whom you may have, you may take them from the nations around you, from them, you may buy slaves.
Yeah, yeah. But these aren't actually laws, Josh. I mean, don't you know anything about the ancient
Near East? These aren't normative legislation, right? These are scribal exercises. They're
wisdom literature. Haven't you read John Walton? And you're like,
you can't have it both ways, right? You can't say, look, thus says Yahweh, from my fundamental
Evangelical point of view, this is handed down on Mount Sinai and, you know, in the 2nd millennium,
and it's not handed down by Yahweh. It's, you know, later scribal exercises. You can't have both.
And so, that's what that 1st chapter sort of lays out, it's trying to deal with
at the end, that apologetic argument. What do you think of, and, you know, I know that you're
friendly, at least friendly, you're friends with Michael Jones, I'm friends with Michael Jones as
well. I think he's, I think he's a great guy. I just don't think he's right. I don't think he's
right. I just think he's the least wrong. Anyway, like out of apologies. But he points out, he
thinks that, well, he, I think he, I think he subscribes to the idea that the, like, the, the
parts about slavery, or more specifically, I think the parts in like Numbers 15, where it's like,
take the Virgin girls for yourself, they weren't commands from God, they were commands from Moses,
and he was kind of acting, it was kind of, it was kind of used to kind of show that Moses was kind
of, to show where Moses was kind of at, to show like, like he's, like he was, he was going above
and beyond what the Lord commanded. What do you think about that in regards to those verses?
It's unfortunately not in keeping with Numbers 31, right? So, I mean, if you look at later in the
chapter, like God is commanding, divvying up of those, like of those, the plunder, right? So,
you're having to read a lot into Moses saying, have you spared these people?
Like, the only thing that it might get you, and it doesn't, in my opinion, but in under a best
case scenario, if I grant that it's Moses going above and beyond, the only thing that it gets you
is him killing more people than maybe he should have, right? It has nothing to do, because if you
read their Deuteronomy 20, the standard rules for warfare are, is it inside of the land of Canaan?
Is it inside of the Promised Land that's being given? Kill them all, right? Are they far away
from Canaan? Are they outside of the land? One of two options. You go off from a vassal treaty,
you off from Shalom, and anybody who wants to read this Deuteronomy 20, 10 to 14, 10 to 14,
10 to 15, something like that. Off from a vassal treaty, if they accept, hooray for them, they get
to stay in their city, the people get to stay in their city, and you get to make them forced labor.
Whenever you want to do like a big building project, like Solomon did in First Kings 5,
you can just, Corvette labor, you got them, right? That's best case scenario for the city.
And again, this is all just standard operating procedure in the ancient Near East. Like,
there's nothing weird about this. There's nothing like crazy about it. It's, it's,
as an ancient Near Eastern text, you'd be like, yep, makes sense, right? It's how they did things.
And if, however, the city closed up its gates, put up a fight, then you emasculate the city,
right? Kill all the men, women, children, cattle, all become plunder for you. Perfect.
Numbers 31 is perfectly in keeping with the marching orders in Deuteronomy 20.
Best case scenario for that argument is Moses says, hey, you didn't kill enough people. You
need to kill more people, right? But the whole thing about taking them as plunder,
not perfectly in keeping with Deuteronomy 20.
Well, because I don't have the, the scholarly background that you have, my critique of that
is, again, was to kind of point out that it makes God out. It's like kind of teasing God because,
because like my understanding was that Moses didn't enter the promised land because he struck the
rock rather than spoke to it. So he did something as, as horrible as not following in order to the
tea. But yet, like, if I was gone, I'm like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, if it was really the
case that like you shouldn't be genociding people, I think that there should have been brought up as
like, hey, hey, hey, hey, like, I know that like, you didn't follow my orders to the tea. But the
real reason you're entering the promised land is because you're raping and pillaging, bro. Like,
I thought like that, to me kind of paints God to be like, oh, I'm not too worried about that.
But this other thing that you did, not following my instructions perfectly when hitting the rock,
that, sorry, I'm not giving you anything I promised you. Like, yeah, it just,
that's how I, that's how I deal with it. But I can't remember what he said, but you can go watch
the episode and, and, and check out what we said we said there. So yeah, it's good. And
just, just quickly, I do want to mention just sorry to interrupt, but we, we, we messed up today's
schedule. That was my fault. And we messed up through the week schedule, both, I think it was
my fault as well, both times. But we, we actually get having you on just to do a recorded interview
because I'm, as people, as my Patreon supporters, you are one of them. No, I'm working on a
documentary with Dr. Kip Davis. And you'll probably show up in that maybe in some of, maybe
another one. But if you want to see the raw interviews on Patreon, this one specifically,
the origins of Judaism, it's just like a, it's a recorded high quality interview with
just the raw interview and the clips will be taken and used in a documentary. But what's,
what I'm doing is just say thanks to everyone who's like, cause Patreon has been popping off.
Just say thanks to everyone. Every tier can access it. It's not just so even if things like
two bucks is like the smallest, like the lowest tier you can get. So if you want to see these
interviews before they go, get put into a documentary and the ones with Dr. Josh, it's
available. Nice. The raw interviews are available. Yeah. So I just wanted to say that to promote
to the fact that you're coming on again to talk about this stuff in more depth.
Do you mind if I share my screen? Just because I feel like it's probably, I haven't done this
yet with anybody. So you're the first. So yeah, it should be up there. So this is the table of
context, the table of contents for appendix. As you can see where it starts, page 358.
So what I did is I just went through and like, this is again, after the conclusion. And by the way,
Vishanti read through this very graciously and gave me some really great comments and gave me
some really great comments. So thank you Vishanti. But this is where I just put all of the laws
and a bunch of texts that have anything to do with slavery. So, and I've organized them based on
topics here, slave sale. These are all laws or texts that have anything to do with sale of a slave.
Laws about debt service, laws about physical treatment of slaves, slave marriage, as slave
as a husband, slave as a wife or other like a concubine. So once you can see,
and then to give you an idea, I'll just go through the first one here. So this is the,
this is laws of Ornama. This is from the third millennium and they're in chronological order
within their sections. So here's the actual law in translation. And then here's my commentary
on that particular law. So it explains what the law is doing. It gives,
you know, obviously it cites. Here's Miguel Seville's, you know, some of his comments on it,
but you can see. And then here is a purchase, like a contract. So Baranam Tara has purchased
from Orgira. The gardener, one blind slave, Baranam Tara has paid 15 shackles of silver
for Orgira. The gardener has the purchase price for him. And then I explain some of the nuances
of that, like what is a blind slave? Here's the Sumerian word. It's taking you to eight.
And so anyway, I just sort of go through all these things. So if you're, if you're talking to
somebody and they're like, Oh, no, the, like, look, the, the Old Testament. Hey, let me zoom in here.
You know, the look, the Old Testament in Exodus 21, 16 says you're not allowed to
kidnap people. You can be like, Oh, okay, kidnapping. All right, well here, here are all the laws.
Oh, whoa, this is so handy. So I did this. And then I thought there's a whole section on battery laws.
And so I thought, you know what, I've already done the work on battery laws.
So I'm going to make a second appendix. And I'm going to go through all the laws on battery.
So I organize them in two ways.
From each law collection, oh, here it is, from each law collection.
So all the laws on battery, because the question is, sorry, let me put this in context.
I will often hear apologists like Mike Winger say things like,
Oh my gosh, like, if they do something as little, as small, as insignificant, as knocking out an
eye or a tooth, something just, something just that small. Well, sorry, like, it's not a small
thing. Right. So here all the, here are all the laws about battery. So here's how it, based on
how they appear in the text, based on their, on their severity, right, in their individual
collections. So you could see beating a man's pregnant daughter so that she dies as the most
severe, fracturing a bone with a weapon, breaking a nose with fists, but not the weapon destroying
an eye destroying a tooth that's really high, right? These are all really high down to,
you know, slave beating a man, slave grudging a mistress. So this is the ancient Near East,
including the Bible, right? This is like, that's right. So these are all the laws.
Is this every law regarding this that you could find? Yep. Yep. So you can see
laws of Ornama, laws of Upadeshtar, laws of Ashnuna, laws of Hammurabi, the Hittite laws.
So then you get down to the biblical laws, right? And here are all the biblical laws
that deal with battery. And what I do is I lay them out.
So here they are in translation. And then at the end, I explain how it is that I ranked them,
because the first section is ranking them based on severity. Like, how can you tell,
like, we want to know which are the most severe things? What did they consider the most egregious
and what did they consider the least egregious? So some of these things are really straightforward,
like death, right? Most severe, 30 shekels for this one, 15 shekels for this one. Like,
you could, those are things that you can place in order, but other stuff like beatings, right?
Like, where does that go? Is that higher than 30 shekels? Is it lower? So what I did
is after I ranked them, I explained how I ranked them in some maybe boring detail.
But like here, first, the death of a fetus would almost certainly result,
well, actually, let's see. Let me just read the first paragraph. As we face certain challenges
when attempting to arrange the various offenses into relative order of severity,
aside from being unable to rank laws that are only partially preserved, like Laws of Oranama 31,
it can be difficult to determine at times what the writer considered more or less severe relative
to other penalties, particularly when there was not a monetary value assigned. For example, oops,
it is easy to see that the act of fracturing a nose with a weapon in Laws of Oranama 18
is considered a more severe offense than breaking a nose without a weapon in 19.
As the former results in a 60 shekel fine while the latter only incurs a 40. But then,
like, how do you figure out other stuff? So anyway, I go through all that and then I explain
what it means. So I swear I'll stop here in a second, but I'm just excited about this appendix
because it's really cool. No, this is super exciting. Like just to have, I mean, it's just
fascinating to like be able to have like such a solid work with such a strong appendix. That's
incredible. You've done people have been like people are saying like you're doing so much work.
Keep Davis, I'm not sure if you saw, but I put up one stop shop slavery and sex sexual violence.
There's a thing was the other one. Oh, no, I lost it. Someone else was someone else putting
it out. I think it was Dr. Cheryl, then Dr. Josh did some work incredible. Yeah, it really is.
But like here, like this is this is sort of the whole point. So I have this chart,
which shows all the significant battery laws. It's hard to see obviously here, but like based
on laws of Oranama is this column, the British chart, and it just shows most severe up here,
least severe down here. And you can just see the patterns. So like one of the patterns is looking
at damage to the face, you know, these types of things are breaking a bone. So most severe up here,
and it gets less severe as you go down. And you can just see in this chart, they're all very severe.
So that's the that's the first half. That's where I'll stop. The second half of the battery is I
organize them based on the actual group body part that was damaged or the victim. So instead of
sticking with just all the ones in the singular law collection, I say, give me all the laws about
hitting a pregnant free woman. So here they are in their chronological order.
And you can see the severity of each one. And then I have a discussion about it.
And then at the end, which it would take me a minute to get down there.
I have analysis. Yeah, here we go.
Where I say, okay, when you when you do this comparison, here's what we end up finding out
about how the different law collections deal with the same offense. So anyway,
incredible, incredible. One last thing is I based on all of that data,
at least the one from the First Appendix, Appendix A, I put another new chapter in,
which is this guy.
Sorry if this is boring for everybody.
So comparative analysis, ancient Near Eastern versus Old Testament laws. So again,
like the introduction, we shouldn't be basing our morality on a 2000 year old book.
Yeah. And then the apology says, yes, I realize that some of the laws in the Old Testament
were not God's ideal. But one thing is for sure, God's commands were so much more
just and morally progressive than all the other nations at the time.
Were they though? So I go through and do comparative analysis on all of the places
in Appendix A where there is overlap between what we see in the ancient Near Eastern law
collections and what we see in the Hebrew Bible. And I have a nifty chart for each one.
So here it just shows you all the laws concerning slave sale and the comparative data.
And then I give brief analysis of each one. And then the comparative analysis at the end
of that section, I can get to it. Yeah, here we go. When we examine, here's what we find out.
And so I do one, and there's a chart for each one. So debt service, same thing,
here are the laws about debt service. So anyway, this is one of the other
chapters that's new and unique to this. Oh my God. So when will this be out,
like the physical version? So it's slated to go out August 18th, but we pushed it out just to
make sure we wouldn't miss it. The proof, we ordered the proof. It's like the PDFs uploaded
to Kindle. We're ready to push the go button. But we wanted to get the actual proofs so we
could hold the physical copy in our hand and flip through it and make sure there wasn't anything
that was weird. That should come tomorrow. So I'm going to try to take the rest of the week to look
at it. And maybe this weekend, no promises, everybody, but maybe it'll be up by this weekend.
So, well, guys, yeah, don't, if you're debating whether or not to send a super chat,
or send or go by the book, go purchase the book. Just help Josh out. Let's get this to,
let's get this to number one in every category. Thank you. No, maybe not every category, right?
Not in the world, but every category in Christian Bible history and Christian Bible
history and culture. I did want to say there was one more thing that I put in there that wasn't in
the first one, one more chapter. And I beefed up all the other chapters just so it's clear. There's
nothing that's strictly, there's no like the same chapter. Every chapter has something new in it,
updates. But I put a chapter in the first atheist handbook to the Old Testament
about slavery. And one of the things, the short section that I added in there included
the slavery in the New Testament, early Christianity, and the Antebellum South.
And I decided I was going to make that its own chapter in this book and beef it up.
And so it's the same, like the same overarching argument, just with more behind it. So like I
actually have a lot more research that went into it. So a lot more bibliographic citations,
but also like I'm putting a whole bunch of like law, let's think about the Antebellum South.
I put like laws in there in full, weird spellings and everything, you know, from the 1800s or from
the 1700s. But the actual laws that talk about what happens if you beat a slave, you abuse him,
and what are the punishments and all that stuff. So yeah, I'm actually really excited,
even about the things that are just enhanced. I think there's a lot of good stuff in there.
I always thought it was a good book, but this looks like you've just taken up a
notch, like 10 notches, like this looks like epic. I have a question though, and this is partly,
so I did some maths yesterday, not yesterday, the other day when I was preparing for the
conversation we'll be having with Derek tomorrow. But I tried to work out how much 50 shekels was
in today's money. And because women, if there's that verse in DeRomey 22, that if someone
rapes a woman, the stream just got demonetised, great. But as soon as, if that happens, then the
rapist must give 50 shekels of silver to the husband and then he can't divorce her.
And we won't go into that in detail, because obviously everyone knows it's pretty gross,
and pretty horrible. But let's say that 50 shekels, according to what I could work out,
was about $480 USD. Is that about right? And also, that needs to be contextualised,
because that had been a lot of money back then, was that not much money, or how poor were people
when the ancient Near East around this time? Yeah, so okay. Very complicated question in some
regards, because obviously the ancient Near East is a 3,000 year period, so the value of
shekel goes up and down. And I'm obviously not an economist, and an ancient economist is even
greater subspecialty, and there are people that dedicate their lives to it, like John Steinkeller
sits up there at Harvard, and just goes through economic texts, and it's probably like,
but he's brilliant at it, right? And there are books on the shelf behind me that are a testament to
that. But it's safe to say, I think, that on average, someone working steadily might make
10 shekels of silver a year. Oh, okay. So it's a pretty hefty sum, which is why when you read
through the battery laws, it'll say like, you knock out somebody's eye 60 shekels of silver,
six years, like six years of work, right? So that but that that has to all be taken into account,
because when you think about the price of a slave, 30 shekels of silver, somewhere between like, it
bounces, right? You know, some some slaves that are, God, I hate even saying stuff like this,
sorry, but like slaves that are considered of lower quality, 10, 15 shekels for sale,
normal slave might be 25, 30 shekels, right? But this is why this is sort of where you get this
stuff in Exodus 21, 2032, where it says, if a goring ox, a known goring ox scores a slave,
the owner must pay 30 shekels of silver to the master, right? It's like, it's like the price of
a slave is probably what that is. So it's not that it's a, it's not that it's a small amount,
right? It's a pretty, it's a pretty hefty sum. But again, it's, it's because
the value of that daughter has now been deflated to the to the father, right?
Yeah.
Which is often the meaning that that Hebrew word on that's that's used that like you have
deflowered her, you have defiled her. It's also like this idea of you've devalued her through
sexual intercourse. We've brought down her value socially, which again, justifiably horrendous
to our ears. But again, let's make sure that we maintain that distinction when we think about
the ancient world. So anyway, what Josh is saying is he condemns every ancient person as immoral.
No, if anyone who missed the start, that was a funny joke. That was a humor. So I have a question
about you mentioned that there were, there's that the chapter that you put the ancient Near East
laws with the Bible laws, are there examples where the Bible does worse? Are there examples
where that you can give that the Bible does better? And can you give us a couple of quick
examples about some of these laws? Sure. So there are some obvious places where and these are
passages where it's like over the top, the Bible does better, the Hebrew Bible does better.
Fortunately, unfortunately, I don't know, it's just depends on your point of view,
they tend to be in more utopian idealistic sections. So like in Deuteronomy 15, it talks about
if you have a debt slave, he serves for six years, he goes free in the seventh. In Exodus 21,
that debt slave is just released, right? But in Deuteronomy 15, the law has been developed,
and it says you don't just set them free, you have to give them all kinds of provisions when
they go. Now, the reason behind that is because in Deuteronomy, Israel is being set up as
the head over top of its vassals, the foreign nations that are around. So they're supposed
to be the ones in power, they're supposed to be the ones giving money as loans, not taking money,
needing to borrow money. And so you don't want a nation of poor people. So the goal is to keep
slaves from falling into debt servitude again. Obviously, from an economic standpoint, that's
like a head scratcher. How's that going to work, right? They've just worked, they've got to pay
off that debt, now you're given a bunch of stuff. The text is very clear that God is saying,
I will provide for you supernaturally to make up for that. So it's utopian, right? It's idealistic.
The same is true in Leviticus 25. Don't take Israelite as debt slaves anymore. You're not even
allowed to do that anymore. You have to keep them as hired workers. But it's also in the same place
where it says, let the land life fallow for an entire year. And the people are like,
how are we going to do that? What are we going to eat? And God says, I will supernaturally provide
for you, right? So again, it's in this utopian context. So certainly that, if that actually
were to play out supernatural provision and everything, that would obviously be much better,
right? But sort of in less utopian sections, there are places where it's not as good, right,
from our modern vantage point. So for example, in the laws of Hammurabi, I think it's somewhere
between 115 and 117, I always get them mixed up. But it talks about if a person goes into debt
servitude, they serve for three years and are released in the fourth. So in three years,
they pay off the debt, principal interest, anything. In the Hebrew Bible, Exodus 21,
Deuteronomy 15, it takes six years, not three, right? So they have to serve for six years and
they're released in the seventh. So like in that sense, we would say, oh, well, that's worse.
There's a quote, 20 bucks says I won't be able to find it off the top of my head, but it's in the
book. But it's basically, it's in this amazing magisterial volume by Jackson talking about the
Covenant Code of Exodus 21. But he basically says, look, and he uses the term apologists,
which is rare in academic work. But he basically says, look, apologists will try to do what I
just did and talk about like Deuteronomy 15 and Leviticus 25. He said, and there are places that
you can go and you can say, yeah, look, look how much better it is. The problem is, and I talk about
this in detail in the book, the problem is you can, you can do it the other way as well,
like I just did. And that's just one example. The thing is making these types of comparisons,
you just have to be so, so careful making them. Because on the whole, it's a wash, right? When
you kind of get down to the bottom, they're all kind of doing the same thing. Like Bruce Wells,
Raymond Westbrook, and again, I talk about this in the first chapter.
But there's an ancient Near Eastern mindset that sort of permeates the law collections. And while
they might have slight variations here and there, people are basically thinking the same way about
the situations that they're going to deal with, like an ox goreng who is known to gore and isn't
penned up. That shows up everywhere, right? So they're thinking about the same types of laws
to deal with. They're, they're thinking about adjudicating them in similar ways. The penalties
are often the same type, right? So if you, like if you kill a pregnant, you strike a pregnant
woman who is either a free daughter or betrothed or married, right? Same penalty pretty much across
the board. Hit a slave, same penalty sort of across the board. It might be like the same type
of penalty. The monetary value might go up or down, like if you do it to a slave, you know,
but the same thing is true of rape, the same thing is true of adultery. Like there's just this
consistency among the collections. And that's what you see in, in this book is like everything's
sort of just on par with, you know, ups and downs here and there. But on the whole, it's just,
it's what you would expect from an ancient Near Eastern text.
Yeah. And that makes sense. Is there, is there, I know that we, I don't know how much you went
into this in, in the book, but in the Antebellum South, do we have record of like people using the
Bible to justify the slave trade? So I, well, I didn't want to make it clear to the reader. My,
my research and presentation of the Antebellum South is strictly, it's very narrow. It's strictly
on the laws in the Antebellum South. So in the colonial period, post-revolution, leading up to
the Antebellum South, I'm looking at the laws that were on the books about slavery. So there's
obviously a whole other discussion about what actually happened, which is obviously a very
important discussion, one that we all need to keep in the front of our minds when we think about
this topic. And there's also a very broad discussion that we could talk about theologically
in the abolitionist movement, you know, and in like Southern preachers who are trying to, you
know, talk about that. Like there was a whole big debate, I think even, certainly there were papers
like written during this period, if I'm, again, not my area of expertise, but if I'm, if I'm
remembering that correctly, there was like a whole big back and forth about this. So I don't,
I don't deal with that. However, what I will say is that there are, there are references in the
laws themselves to things like no good Christian would do X, right? It's, it's not befitting a
Christian to abuse a slave or to kill a slave, right? And that should, like that should resonate
with us maybe on two levels. One, it seems like they're thinking maybe in the same way that
if someone, if someone who is a Christian would come up to me and say like, you effin, you know,
whatever, I might say that's not very Christlike, right? Are you sure you're a Christian? It's not
really Christian behavior because there's sort of this stereotypical thing that we've sort of
learned and it's apparently it's shifting with younger Christians today, but whatever, that,
you know, Christians don't use a lot of curse words, right? That's, that's how I grew up and,
you know, whatever, but maybe it's different now. I'm learning. But it seems like in the mind of
the writer, they're associating Christianity with like doing in some ways loving, caring things.
Now, what they considered to be loving and caring could be very, very different, right? But at least
there was this, like this concept of a good Christian wouldn't do something that bad.
However, and I'd say more importantly, and I do talk about this in the chapter,
we need to keep it in mind because a lot of the, and I've said this in other places,
a lot of the arguments that can be made, apologetic arguments that can be made in defense
of slave laws in the Hebrew Bible,
they can be made for the laws in the Antebellum South too. Yeah.
So we want to be really careful. And again, I'm not arguing that there's like one-to-one
correspondence. That's not the point. And like nobody should be like, the point is not to go
and be like, aha, look, I found this distinction here where this is race-based and this is
ethnically based. And like, that's not the point. The point is that there's attention
in the laws in the Antebellum South that they're wrestling with, that they're justifying their
slave laws, utilizing this, you know, wrestling with it in the same way that you see in the
Hebrew Bible. And if you make apologetic arguments for it so that you can say that it was moral by
our standards, a lot of times it's an argument that you can make for laws in the Antebellum South.
So we need to keep that in mind. I don't like to go into this topic too much because it pisses
everyone off, but no matter what side you're on. But you see the same thing over back in
marketing. So I view things through branding and the association people have in their mind.
And you see this a lot with animal rights activism. You'll see a lot of people will
not like animal suffering. So they'll opt for like a grass-fed beef or something. They're
sanitizing the process of like animals being killed for taste pleasure or for food or whatever.
How many bacon sandwiches does someone need to survive? Probably not many. Bacon's obviously more
of a taste thing, but we'll justify it. And the branding around that is you see all the branding
and it's usually far from reality. And even still pigs probably don't want to die
if you give them the choice to be killed. But what people do is it's the same thing. It's like,
well, I want to know that it's like trying to be good within this what someone would consider
immoral framework. Eating things, like killing an animal for taste pleasure. But I want to make sure
it's well, they'll justify it in different ways. And this is why I want to bring it up because
everyone will argue in the comments. But this is a similar thing. I've heard someone say,
I think it was Dawkins even saying that he might, he may have been a slave owner back in the day,
but he might have been a reluctant one that like, everyone's doing it. And if he had the
money and needed to provide for his family, but he'd probably be nice to his slaves. That's
just probably the reality of like, where he'd be at. And I guess that's what this is. Is that kind
of what you're saying? This is doing the, the slavery laws are kind of, of the influence of
kind of like pointing out like, like the, the trying to, I guess, massage the, the morality of
it. So it's like, well, you know, the slavery, but you know, be nice to your slaves, be kind to
your slaves. And then there are groups of people saying, no, there shouldn't even be slaves. Is
that, am I on the right? Yeah, yeah. And like the tension that lawmakers seem to have felt and
what they described is, well, we assume slaves, right? We assume the social institution of slavery
and masters have to be able to physically beat their slaves. How else are you going to motivate
them? Right? That's what they're thinking. How is she going to motivate them? But we don't want
that the slaves are humans, right? Like, we don't want the slaves to be abused. Is the other,
that's the other side of that, that tension that they're, that they're dealing with. So we don't
want it to be abused. We certainly don't want it to be murdered. So they have humanity. We want to
protect that, but we also have to protect the right of the master to beat them. What to do?
Hmm. Exodus 21, 20 to 21, if a man beats his male or female slave with a wooden rod and they die
immediately, he's to be punished, probably killed. But if he survives a day or two, he's not to be
punished because they are his silver, right? They're his money. Masters got to be able to beat him,
but not abuse or kill him. How do we deal with it? And you see this in the Proverbs, right? I know
I talk about this. Proverbs 29, 19, right? Like, slaves are not, like, motivated by words alone,
right? They'll hear but not understand. Like, what does that mean? Right? Yeah. Yeah. What do you
think about, this is going right back, and I guess we'll start to wrap up and answer some super
charts, but going right back to the start, like, what do you think of the idea of, like, people
trying to be moral in their own worldview? So I give an example. When I was a Christian fundamentalist,
we had this person who was more fundamentalist than he was the person I actually handed the
youth ministry over to when I got removed from the position. And he said it's not loving to tell,
to accept someone with a homosexual lifestyle, because he believed that that homosexual lifestyle
was going to send them to hell. And that's not love to tell them about the tell them that they're
loved and it's fine and everything, but you should be condemning their actions, because otherwise,
they're going to hell. So it's in a weird way that the horrendous belief system of
eternal damnation for loving someone, which is just such an hilariously stupid concept,
is if you subscribe to that, and you subscribe that if, you know, if they just hold out and they
just remain celibate, or like, I guess, try and pray the gateway for whatever, or just fake it
till you make it, which we had someone, by the way, we had someone in our, in our church who he
used to go, he used to say, I know someone who prayed and now they're married with kids. And
it's like, well, you know, a few years later, that person, they got divorced and then that person's
in a gay gay, in a homosexual relationship, and they're happy. But the reason they could never,
he never wanted to have sex with his wife. And so there's people who try and fake it that make it.
But so you can see how that person's like trying to under their worldview, they're like,
they're almost choosing the moral things like to do. And like, how do you think that that is like,
is rampant amongst the slavery, the genocide, the, you know, even, you know, the genocide,
we need to wipe out this entire nation as an example. It's not that they're trying to do evil,
let's think that they're on the side of right, everyone thinks we're on the side of right.
Yeah, I mean, I think that was a bit of a ramble. I don't really give you a question.
It's a, it's a, it's a very, very, I think it's a very, very complicated
question. So let me take it out of something that's controversial and put it into something,
maybe that's less. By the way, all LGBT folks, oh, I'm wearing my shirt today. All LGBT folks are
welcome here. Fuck that noise. I love you all. You know, if you read through royal inscriptions
from the middle of Syrian period. And actually, I, I talk about this in that.
I don't know if I've showed you this book before. I'm going to, guys, I'm going to, after the stream,
there's a link in the description with like recommended resources for that, for people
to suggest the books. I'm going to add all the books that Dr. Josh has brought up in that list.
So you can check that out. That's an edited volume, misusing scripture. What are evangelicals
doing at the Bible? And I have a contribution in there and it's called, your eyes shall not pity
them and violence and genocide and morality for evangelicals. And like I talk about middle of
Syrian texts that talk about, you know, that the king is essentially saying, yeah, I'm like doing
battle with these, these foreigners that are close by in the south. And I'm doing it because they
were evil and rebellious. And they were bellowed against the God, my God, Asher, right? And Asher
told me that I needed to go do this, right? Well, like, let's let's assume for a second.
King really thinks this King really writes this. There's a difference between the propagandistic
text that a king puts out and the message that the people hear and believe, right? And so,
like, I suspect that there are lots of cases where texts were generated in such a way to motivate and
control people, right, for power purposes. And the people that were the recipients of that text,
the audience for that text, were motivated in such a way that they did think they were doing the right
thing. That doesn't mean that their behavior was not egregious or immoral, right?
Like, that's why this is such a complicated topic. And I'm not an ethicist. So I don't want to, I try
to be very precise about the things that I say. And I'm sure that somebody that works in the
philosophy of ethics could come and just dismantle what I'm saying. That's absolutely fine. I defer
to them every day. But I guess my point is that I think that, again, a father in 1955,
who loves his son, reads proverbs and thinks this doesn't feel great. But I need to do this,
or I don't love my son, right? I don't think it's fair to say what an immoral guy he really
was just a wicked person. Like, I don't think that's the case.
And I'll land with this. I had a friend, very, very good friend of mine.
And I remember saying to him, like asking him genuinely, we're going through school. And I said,
I'd de-converted by this point. And I said, hey, like,
obviously, by this point, I've been de-converted long enough that I was like, yeah, there's
nothing wrong with anybody that's in the LGBTQ community, right? Whereas years before,
I definitely would have thought there was something wrong, right? Because I was a
fundamentalist evangelical. And I asked him, I said, because he was still sort of not in
a fundamentalist camp at an evangelical camp. And I said, like, what are your thoughts on
like homosexuality? And he went, and you immediately, like his head dropped,
you could tell that what he was getting ready to say did not sit right with his intuitions,
right, his moral intuitions. And he said,
Bible seems to say that it's a sin, right? And that to me,
was like, you could think about it either way, right? Yeah. But what it said to me was,
he recognizes something is afoot, right? Something is amiss here. But he's very reluctantly,
but because of his, you know, what he thinks is true, he's going with the logical entailments.
That come from his belief, even if he doesn't like it. And again, bad things about that,
good things about that says that he have a sensitive heart, you know, says that he's
thinking these things through. But in the end, he's like, damn, I don't like this. But
so I think that's very different from that guy that Skyler fiction and I interviewed.
And Skyler said, is it moral for God to command the ending of existence of a small youngster?
And the guy said, yeah, it's more than moral, I would do it if God commanded me to do it. Yeah.
And Skyler said, you would do that thing if God commanded you. And the guy said, yeah, oh yeah.
Like, there's a difference between my friend and the
and yeah, oh yeah. Yeah, this is a different vibe. Yeah. And there's, I think there's a,
I think we need to think about those people differently. And not those people, but like,
sorry, like, I think I was the most people. Yeah, I mean, like, I was, I always described
myself as I was the kindest, most loving bigot you would ever meet.
Dude, uh, so were you, were you bigoted towards the LGBT community? Oh, yeah.
You've talked about, I don't know if you've talked about this, but about your personal
stuff. I don't know if you're happy to talk about that at all, but how have you developed,
how have you developed in that way? It's very interesting. I mean, obviously,
once, once I left fundamentalist evangelical Christianity, it was like the burden was lifted
from a, from a, I don't know, like a logical cognitive standpoint. The problem was,
for me, that even though I knew it was no longer wrong or a sin or anything like that, and that
these were like, look, folks, I'm queer, right? So like, like, it, it, it, it allowed even me to
be able to start thinking these things through for myself without this burden of sin, right?
The, the difficulty for me, and I'm sure that lots of fundamentalist evangelicals that have
de-converted have, have struggled with this is that you have, particularly if you were a fundamentalist
for a very long time, and I was two and a half decades into it, um, you have what I have come
to call like habituated tendencies. A professor of mine used to refer to things like that,
habituated tendencies, and I'm sure there's a much more technical term for it, but like your
central nervous system or whatever thinks about and feels ways and responds to certain stimuli
in a certain way. And I remember even following for like, probably like a year, uh, and I don't
have the greatest memories that could have been two years, I'm not sure. But like, even when I would
go over to a friend's house who was part of the LGBTQ community, like I'd be, I'd be obviously very
happy to see them and, but there'd be this like, this feeling that you still had that was like,
like it felt wrong. Yeah. Even though you knew it's not, it's like your body's still
I don't know, still there. And so you'd have to say like, I'd actually feel uncomfortable.
And I'd have to say to myself, come on, there's nothing wrong with this. All right, there's
nothing wrong with this. So yeah, it was, it was tough. Um, very much move past that, but
that's great. So did you, did you discover like, um, did you discover in your process of
un-bigot-fying yourself that you found like everyone attractive or was there something
that you always just kind of knew and you just kind of pushed it down? Or is it?
Probably more the, the latter. Um, I can, I can remember certain times where I thought,
uh, it, and, and I don't have the greatest of memories because of my MS, but there are still
certain, you know, sort of key moments that I remember thinking, I, you know, I, I shouldn't
like seeing that, right? You know, I shouldn't have that feeling. Um, and yeah. So I mean, uh,
it was very freeing ultimately to be able to like find beauty in places where there actually
is beauty, right? And to not have to like stuff that down and say that's bad. Um, so
I have a, um, I have a very complicated history, uh, around sexual identity. I would consider
myself mostly straight. I say mostly straight because there's been moments where I'm like,
like, when I remember being a kid, we're like, oh, that, that was one of the removalists came
around. I was like, why, why don't I keep looking at him? Why don't I keep looking at him? But like,
for the most part, I'm pretty straight. But, um, but, uh, but I have a very complicated and it
goes into my OCD and maybe I'll tell the story one day, but, um, but there was a very, I'll tell
the story one day, but it's a very complicated history. But let's just say that I know the,
I think it's probably what drives me to be, um, try and, um, give people like community
a more of a voice because I think that people don't understand the, um, the, I guess the,
the process of, um, of just trying to be accepted by society and stuff like that. And I was the
same. I had like, I had friends who were, um, who were, I'd, who I had suspicions were maybe, um,
gay and I'd always be like, I'd go around the house and like, I'd have thoughts that I wouldn't
normally have. Like, well, I wonder if they're depressed in this room about their lifestyle
or something like just like a weed. And I knew those that we call them intrusive thoughts and
psychology just like random thoughts are popping. And I'm like, where did that come from? Like,
why do I, I don't have any problem with this person. Like I, and I'm just like imagining
myself in that position, like being attracted to someone with the same sex and feeling closeted
or scared and then feeling, and it's like, it's, it's, it's, it's internal homophobia or something,
something going, it's some bias that I'll be brought up with. And, um, and, uh, yeah, I mean,
um, there's funny story and my dad, my dad isn't homophobic, um, at least, um, as far as he, as
far as like, uh, he's, he's not homophobic, but he definitely has some homophobic characteristics.
My, um, my roommate used to paint my nails. She, um, she would go, I'm painting your nails and
she'd call it Kenny's, uh, Kennedy, her name is what we call a Kenny, Kenny's, um, Kenny's spa.
And she would love painting like my toenails with like pink polka dots and stuff.
Right. Right. Right. I'll just let, I'll just let her eventually. And I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll just
had a laugh on it, whatever. I go around dad's house one time and he's just like points to my,
I was wearing thongs. He puts my fingers gay, gay, gay, like as a joke. And I was just like,
I was like, what? I don't care. But like, just stuff like that, like he's joking around. He's
not being, he's not actually being homophobic. Well, he probably is, but he's not, there's no
malice there. Um, is what I'm trying to get across. But like stuff like that, even, you know,
you pick up on those little things and like, and that's why I try and do my best to try and
expose society to people of all different groups. And there is so much
unconscious bigotry. Right. And, and it's, it supports the bigoted structure.
And I mean, like we all, I think we all wrestle with it. And obviously, you know,
the thing that we're talking about the LGBTQ community, obviously that's true. But I mean,
it's, it's pervasive throughout all, like we, we all struggle with this in various ways, right?
Some have, people have like greater or lesser ableists, you know, unconscious tendencies. And
like anyway, the point is that I think that it's, it was very important, like you, as you said there,
like, even though there might not have been conscious, malicious, intentional,
that's not all that matters. And, and, and I think we need to, the most, and we can probably
do super chats because I could probably talk about this, but it's an important topic, obviously.
But like, I think we all need to use our own social capital
to try to help people realize that it's not enough that they're not,
that they're not consciously, overtly, maliciously racist. Right. But that they also pay attention to
the things that they don't even recognize that they're doing that perpetuate the system
of racism that exists. So anyway, I just want to end by not end, but in this part before we
go to the super chats, and I'm sorry we're going over a little bit, but there's, there's a quote
that I really resonate with by Mark Twain, and it's about traveling. But I think this is, I try
and bring this in, this is why I try and bring different perspectives into deep drinks as well,
because I think it's really hard to hate someone, even subconsciously, if you know them and know
their story a bit more. But the quote is, travel is fatal to prejudice, bigotry, and narrow-mindedness,
and many of our people need it solely on these accounts, broad, wholesome,
chattel views of men, also humankind, and things cannot be acquired by vegetating in one little
corner of, of the earth, all of one's lifetime. That quote was so meaningful to me the first
time I read it, because when I got back from Syria, I spent several weeks in an archaeological
dig, I think it was probably like more than a month in Syria, and walking the streets of Aleppo
every week, walking through Damascus, like it was the first time that I had really encountered
like a, like a foreign place. You know, I'd, I'd been to Mexico, obviously, but there's,
there's so much consistency and overlap, but like being in Syria was like for me,
and I remember coming back just to, I had deconstructed already, it was the first year
that I had deconstructed, and it was such a meaningful trip to me, because I came back like
a different person. Yeah, I wish I could, as part of, be part of monitoring as well, is,
is seeing like other mythologies, and went to Scotland, and heard stories about fairies, and
were in Japan, and saw people doing Buddhist ceremonies, and I'm thinking, all these people
really believe what they believe, and played a role in, in my thought. Anyway, on to the superchats.
So, Gero Mid, thank you for this final super chat. This book, book appendix is swollen,
it needs to remove stat. Great super chat, that was awesome. Thank you. Hi, Gero Mid. Seth Andrews
is going to be doing the audio version. We're starting to work on it together now, and I told him,
we're going to work something out for the audiobook, because reading that appendix,
it's not something that I think the listener, I think the listener would very quickly be like,
yeah, stop. You have downloadable PDFs along with them, and you can just read your commentary.
Yeah. Yeah, cool. Heng Fa Shi, also a patron, patrons, thank you for that 10 dollar super chat.
Out of curiosity, where did the people defeated in battle or killed in conquest go as far as the
afterlife, afterlife is concerned? Where is there a domain for them in the seven levels?
So, I can really only answer that question from inside the narrative,
and I don't think the narrative is going to speak to it.
First, the concept of the afterlife in the Hebrew Bible, if that's what we're talking about,
in the Hebrew Bible is obviously not univocal, but for the most part, the idea of Shaol,
like the grave, is it's sort of in keeping in general with the ancient Near Eastern thought
on the afterlife, which is just sort of, at best, dull, boring, you know, like you read the
Kohelet, and it's like it's better to be a living dog than a dead lion, right? So, the afterlife is
it's not a horrible place, it's not like it's torturous or anything, it's just sort of like
somewhere between non-existence and boredom, right? In the ancient Near Eastern thought,
in general, it's like it's a place that dust gathers on the doorbolt,
you know, and people's food is dust, and like it's just...
Is it? I've heard Dr. Badermann talk about, maybe this was the in-between one,
but it's like being at a train station, like waiting for a train that never comes, it's like
not uncomfortable, but it's kind of boring, but it's not really happening.
That's right, that's a good analogy, that's a good analogy, but it doesn't mean that,
because like if you read through several places in the Hebrew Bible, it's like an unconscious
thing, right? You don't have... There's not a thinking side of it. However, you do have stories
about like, you know, Samuel coming back, right? Being raised and talking to Saul, and he has memories
of who Saul is and why he's bothering me and blah, blah, blah. So, like there's not univocality,
but as... So then, if taking that concept and extending it out, I don't think the writer has in
mind or the narrative has in mind where to the enemies go. I mean, I think just the normal fate
of all people is where they went, because that wasn't the concern of the narrative.
It's a good question. I've heard that Dr. Matthew Munger, who drank way too much whiskey last time
he was on... I'm not sure if anyone's seen the recent short, but that was me actually,
big drink, but he was just as drunk. But anyway, he talks about how there's no eternal soul in
the Old Testament. You subscribe to that idea.
Yeah, I mean, obviously Matthew Munger is a very, very sharp guy. I haven't thought about...
Like, I'd have to think about that. Again, I don't think there's univocality.
So I think, like, the idea of Samuel would probably be like an outlier in that, the fact that
like the narrative has him coming back and having memories is like if that's an outlier.
But yeah, I mean, he sounds like he's thought about that in greater depth.
You should roast him, and then I'll get you guys on for a debate.
Okay, another one, $10 super chat from Hang for Sheet. Thank you so much. We often
hear all about the people, all about how people are just of their times, but we can also often
find abolitionist voices like Lafayette versus G Walsh Sash Jefferson. Is there anything like
that going on in the ancient Near East, etc.? Sort of. So like if you read through Job, Job 31,
15, you know, Job is, of course, the whole book of Job is about him essentially defending himself
and saying, I am righteous. I have not done stuff wrong. So that sort of crosses the path of his
treatment of slaves, the slaves that he owned as a very wealthy person. And he basically says like,
you know, I've never mistreated, I've never denied justice to my slaves. And he goes so far as to
say in verse 15, like they were both born in our mother's wombs, right? So like we have this common
place that we come from. So like that's a, that's obviously a good thing. So I would say that like
there's always, not always,
there's very often the concern for the slaves humanity.
Often this is a debt slave that the concern is for less for a chattel slave,
but still like you do seem to see, even with chattel, chattel slaves, there still is concern
for the humanity of the individual. Maybe they wouldn't have put it in those terms. But
yeah, I don't know if that, there do seem to be,
there's always concern for the vulnerable. It's one of the things that kings do. Kings
look out for the vulnerable in the society. And so like that's an, that's an important thing.
It's not going to be to the extent that we would like, obviously,
because there is still slavery, right? But that is, that is something that resonated with them
as the concern for the vulnerable, the orphan, the widow, the foreigner, right? And at times the slave.
Okay. One of my favorite people who's been traveling a lot recently hasn't been able to
see the show, but a friend of mine, Dr. Cheryl, this has been a great show tonight. I'm a lesbian
in a loving relationship with a beautiful woman. The day I came out, life had meaning completely
for the first time. Thank you for your vulnerability. Thank you for your vulnerability.
Yeah. That's, that's, there's comments like that. I really appreciate comments like that,
like seeing people just, it's important to see, I think, people in happy, healthy relationships
and just coming to terms with who they are. I think it's super important.
Yeah. I mean, just, just if for no other reason than to normalize it further.
Because, I mean, think about it even, sorry, I'm not definitely not trying to pick on your dad
at all, but like that comment of gay, gay, gay, right? Like it's a pejorative, right? Even though
it's meant to ingest, it's still the reason that it's funny to him is because it's, it's, it's a
pejorative. I'm taking the word back. I'm saying like, I'm like, oh, this dinner's hell gay.
So I'm using gay now as a positive thing. I don't know if it'll work, but I'm trying to like,
trying to spin that, but keep going.
But I, like, I think, I think it's very important for us
to normalize, obviously not just things in the LGBTQ community, although it's obviously very,
very important. But I mean, just on the whole, and that doesn't, that doesn't just, and I'll
shut up, but like that doesn't just involve, you know, taking back phrases or normalizing
phrases or whatever that are positive. But it also means like pointing out to people,
I'll give one quick example and then I'll be quiet. Online this week, I was in a conversation
and there was a woman that blocked a man and he was trying to get her to unblock him because
it was making things uncomfortable, like difficult for him to get into rooms or whatever.
And he said, well, why did you block me? And she said, well, the other day or whatever,
he, he commented on her picture and said, oh, you look so beautiful in that picture.
And she said, it was just really creepy to me.
In that moment, I'm sure that his pride was hurt. I'm sure that he thought, I meant that in a positive
way. I'm sure all of those things are true in his mind. It just doesn't matter. To her, it didn't
matter. The correct response, the only response in my opinion to that is, I am so sorry. I did not
mean it that way, but I completely understand how it came across that way. I will make sure that I
do not do that again. Was that his response? Of course not. He got angry at her. He said she
was making a mountain out of a molehill that, oh, oh, so I can't even compliment women now.
Work left. I mean, yeah, exactly. And she ended up having to defend how it felt.
And I, and I, I, I commented on it. I said, you know, you could just apologize and move on here.
And I think that's important. And that's not like, I'm not a confrontational person,
as people might pick up here. But those are things that are necessary, I think, in many
circumstances. Again, to use our social capital to be able to do that stuff. Anyway, I know that
I do it obviously perfectly. But I think a lot of people don't understand what it's like to be,
I guess, a lady on the internet. Because like, like, you can see it in gaming communities,
like you'll be playing a game. And as soon as like a girl enters the chat, everyone just changes,
like, you know, and like, just, it's just, they just deal with it constantly. Like it's just,
you just, it's so frustrating. And when we had the sexy education
panel on here, Amy, my wife was one of the people. And she was nervous about coming on.
She doesn't normally talk about that stuff. But she knows it's important. But she, and so she
wanted to come on. And why I asked her to come on. And she said, yes, she didn't want to come on.
So, and everyone, a lot of people want to run. And that morning, after I put out the promotion,
she had like a new follower on her Instagram. And that made her read, and it was a guy and the guy
was like, jacked, like Jack, dude, in a full drive. And it made her feel really uncomfortable. Like,
she felt, she doesn't know if it was coincidence. She doesn't know. But for some reason, she just
thought, Oh, no, like, there's this person who's entered my world, I would not care. Like, I get
I get to get about 10, like, hot chicks, adding me a day, they're all scams, like they're all,
whatever, I don't think too much too of it. But like, for Amy, she had a very different
response to seeing this person now following her account. And she's like, I put photos of,
you know, our son at the sub, I put, you know, and it was it was like, she was really concerned
about it. And I was like, what are you worried about? Like, they're not coming to the house,
like, you know, but it's very, it's a different, it's a different way that people not just I'm
being very drawing a line between genocide, but it's very different people have different responses
to different things. I used to forcibly hug my little sister. And then I got pulled up by one
of my cousins, because I used to make the joke like, give us a hug. And, and I was like, no,
she actually doesn't like being hugged, like it makes her uncomfortable. So and I was like, oh,
okay, so now I know I asked for a hug. And she says, no, no, I didn't give her a hug. But there's
just things like that. Like, I don't, you don't know where people are at, you don't know how
people are at. So just, you know, just apologize if you make a mistake. And yeah, and if you own
someone as a slave, and they don't want to be owned as a slave, then just go, look, I was wrong
Tony was a slave. I'm sorry. And then just let them go. That's the message
to round it all back. I don't need alcohol to be ridiculous.
I got one last question I want to ask. And it wasn't a super chat, but it's a question that I
had back my mind. And also, Fatih said, I think more people would be pansexual or
panoramic or queer. In one way or another, if the stigma wasn't there, because it's so easy
to see puting everyone. Yes, I agree. But they also had a really good comment. So the punishment
were paid in work. Did they have a prison system? Or was it or was it just slavery and execution?
Were there prisons in the engineering? There were, yeah.
And you could see some of them in the book of Jeremiah, you have sort of a prison
set up. It's not the way, like it's not the prison system that we would think of today,
right? But there's a house for a place for detaining people.
But yeah, I mean, like the point, I talk about this in the book, but like the point of slaves,
more recent work in that book by that article by Seth Richardson that I pointed out earlier.
He talks about how slaves, at least in the old Babylonian period in the early 2nd millennium,
their main purpose wasn't their labor. They were used for labor, but they were
blanking on the word. They were fungibles, right? They were used as like credit.
They were movable property. And so like taking out a loan, you need like some sort of collateral,
you need a pledge to go over here, like send your slave, send your slave. And
so obviously, I'm not in any way saying that makes it good or better or anything like that.
I'm just saying that, in fact, in some ways, that's worse, right? But the purpose of slavery,
I think, was very much economic. And so again, like debt servitude was a way that people did
try to ruque slaves, masters, creditors did recoup their losses. And often that ended with
a person that entered into debt slavery originally being sold into chattel slavery,
if the debt didn't get paid off. So I mean, yeah, there were prisons, or like there were those
types of institutions. In fact, like we have Sumerian literary texts about prisons.
But yeah, their use, like I don't have a ton of research into prisons. So forgive me for not
having that information on top of my head, but yeah, next book. But yes, this slavery was definitely
there in a lot of ways just to pay off, to make sure debts got paid off or they could be used as
credit. Awesome. Well, not awesome, but thank you for answering me. So guys, I want people in,
if you've gone and pre-ordered this book, comment down below and let us know if you've
pre-ordered it and let us know what you think when you do actually get it. Comment down below,
I'd really love to hear how many people get this book, because drive these numbers up.
Of course, in coming up soon, I got, hang on, let me just go quick, quick, quick typing,
McDonald. So coming up, we have some really awesome, really awesome episodes. We have the
minimal myth, a Jesus myth with Dr. Keith Davis, that's sure to frustrate certain groups of people,
but it'll be a good conversation. Creation myths in the Hebrew Bible, which will be,
we apologize, Dr. Keith and Dr. Josh and myself. You like how I'm just adding myself to these,
so I've got like, getting clout. Yeah, yeah, that's good. We have Dr. Robin Walsh,
talking about... That's going to be amazing. Yeah, that's going to be a good one. And of course,
Matt Delhonte, which will be an amazing stream. I haven't had, yeah, it's, he's probably played
the largest role in my deconstruction, so it's coming up on Deep Drinks. And lastly,
I did want to quickly shout out, if you want another podcast to listen to, and you just,
you love this kind of stuff, Bart Ehrman has an amazing podcast, and your wife, Megan Lewis,
is the co-host, and of Miss Quoting Jesus podcast. It is, it's just, it's really good.
Where's an episode with other slavery in the Bible? You're on this one, right? Oh, yeah.
So go back, Goofball. Yeah, I was in the ancient, you're really sending me the Bible.
But let me find one with your amazing wife. There she is. Approaches to say, look, there's no
content. And it's, it's really good. I love it. It's so concise, it's quick, it's enjoyable. I
watch them before I go to sleep sometimes. Doing good for others. But yeah, so I gotta be honest,
like, and you know this, but everybody else needs to know this. I feel like I'm
smart-ish. Megan blows me out of the water with her brain. So, uh, yeah, watching her,
because like New Testament is not her field, but the research that she does for these podcasts
and the questions that she brings to the table are like.
Yeah, she's amazing. She, I need to get her on again, because, um, because I think, um, I just
like to, to catch up with her and just pick her brain some more. But, but, um, but she's, she
mentioned also I'm feeling that she doesn't read novels anymore, because she's had children,
she just gets too distracted. She's got ADD, right? Is that right? Or ADD or something?
And she just gets absorbed into these. So I imagine that if she's got to do research on
the New Testament, she does the research, like she will just like pull all those nuts and bolts
out and just work it all out. So the questions she asks are fantastic, like really some of the best,
I think, as, as a host. Um, so yeah, they chose very, very well. They did. Well, um, thank you so
much for coming on, uh, Dr. Josh, we, where you will see you soon on the panel and as, as well in
the, um, in the video recording. Um, so thank you so much for coming on. Is there anything you want
to say before we leave? Oh, no, just thank you for having me on. I appreciate it. And thank you
for everybody for grabbing a copy. Oh, cool. See you later, guys.
