Welcome, everyone, to the fifthiest episode of Deep Drinks Podcast.
This podcast is lit on God, no cap.
So this episode, we're going to be doing a bookshelf tour, but I want everyone to make
sure you subscribe and make sure that, and there's also, if you want to support this
channel financially, you can become a member and also check out our Patreon page.
We have a couple of really cool things coming up.
The first thing, the first major thing we have coming up is in April, we have the purity
culture panel.
Purity culture, horror stories.
Guys, this is going to be a badass episode.
We have two of my favorite people in the world.
One knows Neil, he's a badass content creator who makes content about religion, history,
mythology, psychedelics, and early Christianity.
He goes by Gnostic Informant on YouTube, and Derek, the host of the wildly popular Myth
Vision podcast, where he interviews experts on religion, mythology, philosophy, and everything
in between.
Welcome, Derek and Gnostic Informant, welcome to the show.
We threw this thing at the last minute, I apologize for that, I didn't realize it was
going to be the fifth episode of Deep Drinks, and I was like, damn, we've got here way
quicker than I thought we were going to get here.
We've just been grinding here over in Deep Drinks, and yeah, so thanks guys for coming
on.
This is going to be an awesome episode.
My pleasure.
You're doing great, dude.
You're crushing it, crushing it.
Dude, you are really, I think you're just now going to start seeding the fruits of your
labors.
It's coming, and our goal is to get you full time doing this, man.
Well, that's also my goal, so that's great to hear.
Thanks guys.
We have this little group chat where we send each other memes and encourage each other and
stuff, and you guys have been such an encouraging force in my life.
But today, before we get into it, everyone's just really excited to hear about what our
favorite books are in all these different categories.
So I want to read out what we've got, what we've kind of got.
So I've asked everyone to bring in their favorite, I'm not going to say favorite because it's
going to be, it's really hard to kind of pinpoint that, right?
But a good book, a good religious text outside of the Bible, a hidden gem that's a non-popular
book and text that everyone should know about, one overview book, so like a book that kind
of explains a topic and has a lot of resources, one early church writing, and one book on
deconstruction or helping someone deconstruct their faith.
The favorite book in the Bible, that's going to be interesting to hear what everyone's
is.
A novel, a current favorite, one book that shaped you, and the book that you believe
everyone should read.
So but first off, we have a super chat, best book on Dionysus.
Oh.
I got to go to the supers and thank you for the super chat, Yakov.
I got the answer to that question.
Yeah, you would have a better answer on Dionysus than I would.
So the original, if you want to go back to the ancients, Euripides bacci is the one,
that's the play that was preserved, but in the fifth century of the common era, a man
named Nones of Panopolis wrote in even more grand and larger tales called the Dionysica.
This is like taking Euripides bacci and blowing it up into it.
Look how big it is.
And by the way, this particular version has 48 translators working on this.
Wow.
I just knew Neil was going to bring some like some whack, like some some amazing stuff.
Like, I'll be honest, right?
I have never really been a big fan of history.
Like I've found it boring.
I've never really found it interesting.
I started getting interested in history when I started watching MythVision because of early
Christianity, and I was like, oh, this is this is interesting.
Hated Roman.
I had a friend who always talked about Roman history, got so bored by Roman history until
I started watching Nostra Conformance recent video on I've got what it was actually called.
But I was tech, like I was texting him so many meals stop replying to my text because
I was just like, holy crap, this is so good.
This is amazing.
This is like, it is really like, so I want to plug out Neil's channel before we go any
further.
Neil, you have an amazing video that's just recently come out.
What is that?
You have not seen this video.
It's five hours ago.
I love.
Yeah, let me just let me just let me just show you that you have offered wine and
cake.
He shall have offered wine and cakes.
Now, every coup for whom such things are done shall have an existence among the living
ones, and he shall never perish.
But you shall have being like unto that of the holy God.
This idea of a bodily resurrection, you're exactly right.
And I think the comparison is very apt between Jesus and Osiris.
And it's also not just a bodily resurrection.
It's a seasonal yearly resurrection.
It goes with the cycles of the seasons for those people who might be upset.
Oh, how dare you say that Jesus comes from Osiris?
I'll say that we're all working with the same matter of this earth.
We're all working with the same seasonality love, which is such a massive
concept in the Egyptians use the word love all the time.
But love, you know, mare is the word for love.
Mareut, how does one understand this?
Worse, it's not divinized.
It's not something that can grow.
She's dropping.
And move about on its own.
It's just making you think like, wait a minute, what's going on here?
Didn't you say that that Ryan was even watching as Derek?
Yes, your wife, your wife, like, is your wife anything like mine?
Like where she probably watches like one tenth like she like doesn't even care about it.
Yeah, I didn't even care about it.
And this morning at breakfast, such a nerd, I usually wake up, right?
I check all notifications.
I try to just at least get my eyes on my emails and go, OK, I know what I need to
like look at stuff, but then I'm like, all right, what's this?
And then Neil will sometimes like, dude, share this out, bro.
Share this out because you know, I'm all about trying to promote.
I'm promoting the community and like Neil will hire me and stuff too.
Like we help each other out.
Neil will be like, yo, I'm paying you to make a thumbnail, you know.
And then Neil will be like, yo, what do you need edited?
And all like we have to work back and forth.
Right. So yeah.
So he'll be like, share this out.
Sometimes I'll watch his videos and I'm like, that's good.
But it doesn't like grab me by the Cajones.
OK, like like this morning, I'm cooking my eggs and my cheese and my slice of my
tomato and I'm like and my wife's like, what the hell are you listening to?
Because sometimes she's like, can you lower the volume?
I'm not really here.
She's like, what is this?
And I'm like, listen, God's are having sex with themselves in their own hand.
They're jacking off in the earth and creating other divinities, which
didn't create humanity and stuff.
And she's like, if this was taught in school, I would be all over it.
She made a comment about ISIS where like right at the beginning, early on,
Dr. Cooney is like, oh, Cyrus, she gathers his body parts and like my wife
related in a weird way.
And this was her words.
I didn't say it, but she was like, ISIS can't find Osiris's penis.
This is what Dr. Cooney says, right?
So she has to let it all this is like.
And then all of a sudden she's fabricating a penis to procreate from Osiris.
And my wife was like, she's like, I could see myself doing that for you.
Like, like she wanted to hear more of it.
Like, it's my wife's a little pervy.
You know what I mean?
The Egyptian actually believed that and corn would grow during the spring time.
That was a Osiris having an erection.
That's why I said in the private chat, Neil, I said, Neil says, my book is
longer than your book.
And I said, that's what she said.
I was joking around in the chat, but we were having a book measuring contest today.
See, everything is a euphemism, right?
Of something sexual.
That's that's what you start noticing.
We're horrible people.
Actually, they say the next generation is going to be worse.
It's like, dude, have you not read some of the literature?
Yeah, I call bullshit on that.
I don't think the worst I think the generations generally get better.
But that got it got age restricted.
All I was doing was reading text from age.
It's bad.
Well, were you reading one comf?
Was that the problem?
Was it?
But it's like the modern day porn would be equivalent to what they're
what they're writing, the imagery in some of these texts, like Marshall
from the first century and a couple other people from the ancient Greek world.
They're really, really writing some some graphic stuff.
Like they were that's what they were doing, you know.
Well, guys, I am I know we're going to have the best time, but we've all
got busy schedules and I know that we're going to this could just go on forever.
But so firstly, I want to mention to everyone we're doing a giveaway.
OK, and this is the 50th episode of Deep Drinks.
So at the end of this episode, I'm giving away a $50 Amazon gift card
so you can spend it on buying some of these books that were that way.
This is my gift back to the community.
You guys did not know this.
Yeah, OK, so all you need to do to enter, share this video out
and then do hashtag 50 Deep Drinks in the chat.
And then it'll pop up and you'll go into the draw.
And then at the end of the episode, you have a chance to win
in the fifth year of Amazon gift card to buy the books that we are suggesting
that you buy today. Also, each book will be linked and they'll be able to
it'll support the channel because there'll be Amazon affiliate links.
So I'll be running back doing that.
So, guys, let's talk about the first book and this book is
this is your we won't say favorite.
Well, let's say we got people asking how do they so they're not
they don't need a hashtag just in the comment section, right?
You're saying on social media.
Oh, no, no, hashtag in the chat.
Sorry. Yeah, hashtag in the chat.
Yeah, but you can also hashtag it if you share it out and that'll make sure
that I know that you shared it out, which would be really good.
But where do they need to share it?
Facebook, Twitter, Facebook, Twitter, wherever to your mom's
prayer group to like wherever you want to share the video.
That's totally cool.
So just share the video out and do hashtag 50 deep drinks.
And then you have a chance to win the fifty dollar Amazon gift card.
So and we have a super chat as well.
When are you getting the G.I.
and M.B. documentary and the book on the search for the real Jesus?
We look forward to a collaboration, collaboration for something like that.
We have all that footage that we you and I have a plans.
It's going to happen during this year.
We're going to have to figure something out together.
It's like go through all the footage and put something together
because there's a there's enough there to do to make something with it.
Yeah, the course thing.
Remember, we had the idea of maybe doing a course with it.
But we might as well just throw in some a nice amazing banger video for it.
So like I I don't know.
We're going to have to talk about that, how we want to do this.
And we still haven't had time in light of all the courses we're currently
editing and stuff we're doing, but we have so much footage.
Me and Neil, let me tease them, Neil.
Let's tease them just to give them this this super
chatter, what they deserve for helping support deep drinks.
We went into the Valley of Gehenna.
OK, as the law says, a lot of people think that this is where the bodies
were thrown from the war.
If you go and talk to Dan McClellan, he'll say that's a myth.
But either way, let's just say that that isn't a myth and that they threw
these bodies down here into this Valley.
Me, Neil and my queen of myth vision, Ryan, went at night.
It was spooky.
I'm not going to lie.
This was spooky.
We're down there and this is some it is not like this safe, safe place.
OK, I'm not saying there aren't places that are safe, but man, this is
it is some crazy stuff going on, even in Israel.
We're going down there and we're seeing caves.
There's two.
There's twos everywhere.
So it's like going back into a time machine.
It was weird and it's all at night.
And I grew up in the city.
I've never seen anything like this before.
There's just new dude.
But the point about that Super Chat is the book.
Yeah, there's I'm we're going to have to do books at some point.
Like there's just no way out.
Yeah, 100 percent.
Thank you so much for the Super Chat.
I really appreciate it.
And guys, yes, thank you for hashtagging 50 deep drinks.
We have 11 entries so far.
Keep them up because the you might have a chance to win if you feel
that was on gift card.
So let's get into this, guys.
Let's get into this.
So the very first category is one religious text outside of the Bible.
And I guess we'll who goes first, I guess I'll go first.
I'll go first because I'm on the top and then we'll go back the other way
the next time. OK, my choice is the bug of our Gita.
That's good one, dude.
I have this. Yeah.
Look, I have it here.
Yeah, it's version is you.
Yeah, it's so good.
It's it's I really I really I really appreciate like really, really appreciate it.
I'm not a Hindu at all, but I told the story.
I think last time when you came on, Neil,
the first time I read this, I was in Bali.
It's a Hindu island and I was drunk poolside.
My wife's next to me drinking like cocktail is like techno going
and I'm listening to my headphones and you still hear the techno over
my headphones and I'm listening to this like ancient spiritual epic
from, you know, this for from the fourth century B.C.
And I get to I get to chapter nine and I'm like having this like experience
and I'll just read a little bit of it.
I am the ritual and the sacrifice.
I am the true medicine and the mantrum.
I am offering and the fire which consumes it.
I'm the one on whom it is offered.
I'm the father and mother of this universe and its grandfather, too.
I'm its entire support.
I'm the sum of all knowledge, the purifier, the syllable om.
I am the sacred scripture, the rig, the rig,
Yaju and the Samavadas.
I'm the goal of life, the Lord's support of all the inner witness,
the abode of all.
I am the only refuge, the only true friend.
I'm the beginning, the staying and the end of creation.
I'm the womb and the eternal seed.
And I'm like, did I just fucking pull open like
psalms or like a virus or something?
Like, holy shit.
And this has been 400 years before Jesus was a kick in.
You know, like that it's crazy.
So this really blew my mind.
And and, you know, it's one of those things where, you know, I'm a non-theist.
I don't necessarily have a belief in a God,
but definitely when I read some of these old religious texts,
I get this like warm feeling and this one definitely for me.
And that was that was testament to me that
that it's not just Christianly thanking me, those warm feelings.
So for me, that's that's that's this that's this book for me.
And it's really good, really, really interesting.
I actually want to read it again because I just love it.
And I have a little bit of a vintage.
You know, that that's actually a section out of a larger piece of literature
called this right now, Bartha.
Yes. It's like, it's like, it's like, it reminds me
when I read, I haven't read this whole thing yet, but I've read through it,
like bits and pieces.
It's a lot like Greek mythology.
It's like different gods going to war against each other.
It's really similar to Greek mythology in that way.
But that section, they for some reason, the the the the book that you're holding,
that is like the section that everybody thought was like
the divine words of Krishna himself coming.
Yeah, that was like the special part of the text that everyone focused on.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, it's it's it's kind of like I also live in Australia,
we have the oldest living culture in the world, 60,000 years.
We estimate that aboriginals have been living in the communities in Australia.
And I had no nothing about that like religious beliefs or practices
like hardly anything.
And then you even got like, you know, the non-Abrahamic faiths in India.
Like I like when I first started learning about them, I'm like,
Holy shit, like there is just so like the Abrahamic religions are a blip,
like a drop in the bucket compared to the religious thought
of which we have documentation for all over the world.
Right. And then you think about like, what don't we have documentation for?
How like a human human species has been around for hundreds of thousands of years.
How how has thought changed?
You know, it's it's incredible to me.
Like to me, it's inspiring, amazing.
Yeah, I love that.
Got some great people in the chat, by the way, David, just just to keep an eye
on these wonderful people that are showing up, just to keep that in mind.
I look, you want me to go second here?
Yeah, let's go second.
So I was before we did this, I was asking me and Neil did a little video call
and I was like, bro, some of this stuff, I'm not sure what to pick here.
So I'm just throwing up the entire series of the Greek epics.
Oh, right. Good idea.
So the Iliad, the Iliad, the Odyssey and Virgil, the Aeneid.
Definitely, those are definitely religious texts, dude.
Well, they connect to what you want to do.
Well, someone might say, that's mythology.
No, no, no, no, no.
The Greeks thought these were holy texts about.
Yes.
I love this and it connects to your whole, you know,
going to the Indian side, because Proto Indo European material
has definitely crept into what we see in the Greek world.
And so there is like some type of connection here.
I don't know how much genealogical connection, but I would imagine
some way, shape or form, there's an overlap in the material.
But for me, I guess right now, what I'm excited about is just throwing it out there.
Two things, why I love it and I connect to it, kind of like you get a warm,
fuzzy feeling, David, is thinking about Odysseus as a warrior king
who goes to fight in the Trojan War.
My dad was a green brain, the special forces.
So he would leave his love, my mother, his children.
You know, I kind of look at myself in a way like Telemachus when I read the story.
And and then he comes back, you know,
I'm not sure if he's going to make it back in one time.
My dad was in battle.
He was jumping out of an airplane.
Something happened or jumping through a window.
I can't remember there.
We're dropping off the top of a roof into combative situation,
but he broke a rib and it punctured his lung.
We didn't know we got this panicking phone call thinking he might die.
So like I'm wondering if my father's not going to make it home.
So like there's a sense in which when I read this story,
it actually reflects my own experience.
And so I'm like, hold on.
I know what it's like to have a warrior for a dad like Telemachus.
Yeah. And in the Iliad,
there the way it's written or should I say composed by Homer and translated,
because I can't obviously I haven't read the Greek or anything.
But like the translation, I have the same one as you, by the way, Derek,
the translation you have with those collection.
That's probably the best one out there.
But like they capture the the like the feeling of the battlefield
where there's like a soldier who runs up and then a spear flies through his chest
and they're like, the soldier started to see darkness creep into his vision
like he's dying, but like I'm reading this and I'm just like, damn,
this is like some some real heavy shit right here.
Like this is not like this.
This is this was probably intense to for people to hear the bards perform this.
Because that's how that's how they used to that's how the people didn't read it
as much as they heard a bar play it with an instrument and sing it.
That's how Homer was portrayed.
You know what I mean?
But so I've linked that in the description or not in the description
in the chat and that is an Amazon affiliate link.
If you click on it, you'll support this channel.
But Constellation Pegasus and I'll do that for every book, by the way.
Constellation Pegasus asked a great super chat.
Thank you so much.
The Greeks considered those books.
Derek showed religious.
Let me show you.
Let me just to illustrate to you how important the Iliad was.
Apparently this is this might be not this might not be true.
But this story does illustrate how important the Iliad was.
The there was a rumor that Alexander the Great kept a copy of the Iliad under his pillow.
And it was it was personally annotated and had writings in there in the margin
by Aristotle, his tutor.
So just like whoa, that image of Alexander the Great.
The world's most powerful man just conquered the east
and he's sleeping with the Iliad under his pillow.
You guys get me so pumped up because I haven't read the Iliad or the I'm read
any of this stuff. I'm so new to history.
So you guys get me so pumped up to learn about this.
I love that.
And it's not only in what Neil's saying there and I'll be brief
because we got to get to Neil's book is even the way that they would like
when they would copy this material or when they would go about trying to use references,
they were very careful about making sure it stayed and remained in that archaic Greek form.
So they used this book as the teaching book for those who would learn Greek.
You had to go back to the older form of Greek to learn how to write in Coine or Attic
or whatever the Greek might be at the time as Greek evolved.
So educated people like the gospel authors.
And we'll get into some stuff as time goes by.
Needed to know at least I would suggest the Homer's Iliad and the Odyssey.
But there's even a case to be made that the Gospel of Mark may know Latin
and may have read Virgil's Iliad, which is also propagandistic,
but religious for the Roman Empire.
They are trying to spell their genealogy.
Well, like in a way that comes out of the Roman Virgil wants you to know
in the beginning of the Iliad that this is this is a this is a third installment.
He wants you to he wants you to think, OK, the Trojan Wars ended.
Odysseus did his thing.
Now this new character will not new character.
He's actually mentioned a character I mentioned in the Odyssey and Iliad and needs.
He's going to go to Italy now.
And this is the third story.
And so the other story of Carthage and Dido and all that.
So it is it is basically saying like in the same sense where a new Batman movie
will come out and it will like draw upon the other Batman's that came before it.
That's what Virgil is doing with Homer.
He's just coming along and say they're creating a foundation myth to their
to that why Rome is going to be the one and they're just borrowing it
from the earlier Greek narratives to do such.
And we see the same thing in biblical authors.
Yeah, they're hard.
Physicians and stuff.
But I was going to say I heard this really like
this horrible atheist philosopher wrote this quote denying the New
Testament use of Greek sources is like saying that he revival was written
without borrowing from Egypt, Assyria, Babylon, Persia and Greece.
A fairy tale is time to face the music and acknowledge the truth.
I mean, what a quote.
I mean, just it does it.
Can that guy even instantiate necessary?
So that was my dirty.
That was great.
That's actually a great quote there.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, sure.
I'm glad you aren't before me, Derek, because I'm going to draw upon what you just did.
So you have these writers.
So we have I was going to go with like the Orphic hymns and kind of just be boring.
And so, yeah, these are Orphic hymns.
People people recited these hymns and it lets them in sense.
And they know that that's how they had there.
But I'm going to go a little deeper because Derek's talking about Homer and
and Virgil and also in the same time as Virgil, you have Ovid and Ovid's
writing what's called the fasty, which is the it's the prescribed monthly
festivals of the Roman calendar.
So these religious festivals that would come along.
And he Ovid got famous for writing all these love poems.
He was a poet.
And then he got when he got super famous, he put together the metamorphosis.
That's what I had.
I just pulled that up the show.
And the morphosis is kind of like what Virgil does is Ovid's looking
around at all these all these local myths all across the newly found Roman empire.
This is a newly found empire.
Augustus is inheriting the work of Pompey and his adopted father and Sulla.
This has all been going on for the last century.
Rome's conquering the Mediterranean.
So they're they're writing these myths in Latin.
These are Greek stories from Phoenicia, the Adonis myth of Venus and Adonis,
which is a separate myth from Cyprus.
You got these Phrygian Addis myths.
And he's putting it all to one spot for the people in Latin to read.
That's Ovid's metamorphosis.
So this was a big deal.
And according to Mary Beard, people had copies of this stuff in the temples in in Rome.
And they would they would recite these poems in the temples as like kind of like
how Columbus has these different epigrams and hymns that people in Alexandria would read in Greek.
Like it's that's how religion was done before the Christianity.
People would read like they listen and recite epigrams and hymns, orphic hymns,
stuff like that.
And everybody can tell you need Jesus right now.
You really need Jesus.
But that's just fascinating, though, because it's like they're they're always
changing and retelling myths that came before them.
You just like that's just how shit was done.
You know, yeah.
That's awesome.
So I put those two.
So the metamorphosis and fasty in the chat.
So if anyone wants those links, they're just there.
We'll actually circle back around.
So do you want to now Nostik, Neil, do you want to like do your hidden jam?
So this is the next popular text that everyone should know about.
So I am a huge fan of Walter Birket.
And I also he's got the book called Greek Religion,
which he's pretty famous for.
But the hidden gem that I chose is the ancient mystery cults by Walter Birket.
Oh, it might not be a totally hidden gem.
Like there might be some scholars in the chat might know what that is.
But it's not a household title.
It's not like it's not like not like the Iliad or something.
So yeah, I thought I thought I thought I'm never I'm never ahead of it.
Good.
Good.
At least I got you a hidden agenda.
Good.
Yeah, well, this is going to spend all my pocket money or this this this stream.
Like it has like some images in the like of like these mosaics and frescoes
that are, you know, in Pompey and in Rome and stuff.
And like as he goes through all the different rituals
and different rites of Isis and Serapis and Addis, Mithra, all that goes.
It goes goes deep.
So so is it like what is it specifically about?
Is it about the ancient mystery cults?
Is that the new fad was mystery religions?
These were like local initiation, centered around initiation.
So, for example, the Eucharist or baptism, for example, those are initiation rites.
So you might not everybody agrees that Christianity is a mystery cult per se.
But like you can you can define those things in particular
as something a mystery religion would do.
So in like Appalachus, Golden Ass, Appalachus gets initiated
into the cult of Isis by dipping his head into the water seven times.
So there's different.
So mystery religions have different rites, depending on where it is and where you
those in the mysteries, they had their own thing.
All these different mystery cults, the mysteries of Addis and Fregia.
Sometimes if you get you become a unique priest
and you literally castrate yourself, like there was always a mystery.
This is all in here. All this is in here.
That's so interesting.
I get blown away.
Like I'm getting blown away.
Every time I talk to you, I get so blown away.
Max connects to his latest video.
I mean, Egypt is like the mother of all of this stuff.
It is. It is.
Oh, it's just I mean, it takes its own flavor and takes on a life of its own.
But it's it you can think the Osiris cult.
It's like when I see the way I'm starting to see it
just from my amateur brain.
The way I see is Egypt is the OG.
Say that again.
Amateur amateur brain.
Egypt is the OG on the block.
The Mediterranean world, they're all doing.
Religion is the thing to do.
Religion is culture.
Like with the way we look at music and film today, Hollywood,
like that's religion been the ancient religion was culture.
Culture was religion.
But Egypt is the OG on the block.
They've been doing this for a thousand years.
Like they know how they know how to us.
You know how to make sure you go to the afterlife.
They know all the secrets.
Egypt, they everyone's looking to Egypt for secret knowledge.
Right. Ever since like so they've been writing stuff down ever since
after the Great Flood, that's when like that's that's many years,
you know, straight, verbal flood.
I can't even take you serious.
Max, good luck out. Good luck.
Yeah, go, Neil, go, Neil.
Thank you. Thank you, Max, for the super chat.
OK, Derek, what's your my my little nugget hidden gem?
Your hidden gem.
There's a lot of stuff.
And I was like, not sure exactly what to do with this one.
But I went with Ronald Handel reading Genesis.
Oh, wow. Oh, 10 methods.
Ronald Handel is like the guy on Genesis.
I mean, there's plenty of guys that are good at this.
But I really enjoy his his how he writes on this and he's very detailed.
So if you're looking for something on Genesis, 10 methods, Ronald Handel,
that's where it's at.
You're going to find out you're going to find out real quickly
what they're doing, what they're trying to do by writing Genesis with Ronald Handel.
And so I don't want to get too far into it, because honestly,
people need to people really need to get the book.
But it is dealing with the mythology in which they're using,
but they're writing against it.
So while they're writing against it, you can see how they're absorbing
the Babylonian earlier mythology.
And actually, somebody's in the chat, the Bible was written backwards.
His first video goes into the creation myth
in which Genesis is riffing off of so that guy.
I know that guy.
I was he teased that he had some announcement to make and he wouldn't tell me.
I was like, what is it? What is it?
And then he just post because I was hoping it was going to be a YouTube channel,
but I didn't want to like say it in case it wasn't it.
And I'm just so stoked.
Go guys, go subscribe to the Bible was written backwards.
Dr. Matthew Monga, it's amazing.
We we have we have a bigot in the chat right now.
You too, by hat size.
I mean, can you really?
I mean, we need to we need to deal with this person
at some point during the stream.
Oh, Dr. David Folk has amazing breasts.
Constellation Pegasus.
I've got a book on Chaldean magic by Frank Frank.
Coice Lernamont.
Lernamont, I need to get I need to get read.
Anyone heard of this book?
No, let's heard of the Chaldean oracles
that's translated by Thomas Taylor, but no, not the Chaldean magic.
Sounds interesting.
Yeah, that's something Neil really would cover.
I mean, it was all over the magic and mystery and those Chaldeans, man.
Just like the Egyptians, their OGs, they're they've been around.
Yeah. Yeah.
So is it I think it's I think I found the link Chaldean magic
and its origin development that looks interesting.
I'll link that as well.
If you if anyone wants to check out if anyone wants to check out
Constellation Pegasus's book, I'll link that in the chat as well.
But.
OK, where are we up to?
You were on you were up to me.
OK, my hidden gem.
So I have a bit of a story behind this one.
I was in Byron Bay with a family and we were walking along
and I was in a bookstore and I was like, you know, just looking at
all the different books and I was like, oh, this is cool.
And there's this one tiny little book that was worth seventy five dollars.
And I was like, what the fuck is this book doing at seventy five dollars?
It was a little book.
And I was like, what?
And in his price tag threw me off.
It was like hidden. So I pulled it out.
I was like, the price tag threw me off.
And I was like, what is this?
I only looked at it because of how expensive it was.
And I did read I Googled it or did some research.
And I was like, this is the perfect book for me.
And for for months, I've been thinking to myself, man, if only I'd love
to interview the author one day, it'd be absolutely fantastic.
Like, but I don't think it will ever happen one night.
For some reason, I had a little bit of courage, maybe because we had the panel
coming up and I had a bunch of PhDs coming on and made the channel look like
it wasn't just me, you know, screaming into the camera by myself.
You know, it looked like it looked, you know, impressive.
So I emailed them and he said, I'm down.
Let's do I'm let's do a whiskey sour.
And I'm like, oh, my gosh.
So this book here, it's called The Thing About Religion by Professor David Morgan.
You can see it's a painting of Cersei on the cover.
That's nice. Nice.
And you see all my little tags in here.
It's the introduction to the material study of religion.
And to me, it just it just it just so like it just
like it answered so many of my questions about like why or why we have
yeah, that's my page.
That's all good. I don't even know what that what was in there for.
But I had so many questions for me and like it really blew me away.
Like it made me not mind to blow away everyone.
But for me, it really blew me away.
And David, David Morgan is actually coming on the channel.
So I just want to shameless plug.
I've got him coming on the channel with drinking whiskey
sours and he's a professor of religious studies with secondary appointment
in the Department of Arts, History and Visual Arts at Duke University.
So that's going to be an awesome episode in 13 days.
But I this book have to recommend it.
Really, I'm going to have to check that out.
It's a good one. It's good. It's really good.
Cool. Oh, awesome.
I guess we'll go swing swing back to me.
Thanks, everyone, for your amazing comments.
I'm trying to read them in between talking about.
Thank you so much.
The best overview book.
So I guess I'll start.
So my favorite book is
the History of Philosophy by A.C. Grayling.
This is a beast, as you can tell.
And what I've done is and my friends, my friends saw me do this
and he said, you couldn't pay me enough to do this.
We're just very different people.
But in here, I've written.
So you've got like different tags, right?
So you've got miscellaneous history, story,
slash analogy and famous idea.
And then in the side, and you can see, I listened to the audio version
and then I go through and I reread it and put in the tags for each section.
So then I can go to say, you know,
philosophers of the 19th century and then just go, bam, like, here's an idea.
I can, you know, go to Hume and I can go straight to one of these like main points,
one of these quotes and like, bam.
And it's just I find it fascinating.
So for me, I struggle to understand when I'm reading just like
by myself, like just reading like like a normal person.
So I like to listen to the audio version and then I put bookmarks in
because that's the best way that I learn.
And then I go back through the actual physical book and I reread them
with the broader context.
So that helps me to learn.
So that's what I've been doing with this one.
And it's just it's every time we go away on holidays,
I try and bring this one and just and I've got all my bookmarks in the app
and I just like put more stickers in, more stickers in, more stickers in.
And Amy is, you know, poolside or doing something fun.
And I'm just right.
Yeah. So yeah, that's my that's my overview book on any subject.
So that's that's my one.
OK, Derek, what's your back my way?
OK, she's on the screen for a second.
All right.
I have this thing right now, a secret crush with Yahweh.
And so I would recommend Daniel McClellan's book here.
If you're getting an introduction.
Yeah, you want an introduction to the God that we see within the Hebrew Bible
that we call Yahweh. This is a good, a good introduction.
In fact, while we were in Israel, Neil, we saw the standing stone
that was within the the Israelite Museum or the Israel Museum.
And that standing stone was Yahweh, Yahweh's image that represents him.
And Daniel's book, if like for me, I'm wanting to like get my head wrapped
around the sky because too often to my interactions online,
what we find with Christians and those that are wanting to like tell everyone
you need to believe this is true.
He really rose from the dead the whole nine.
Like you find that oftentimes they're not recognizing the ancient Near Eastern deity here.
They're not getting down into the corporeal deity that we're talking about
here called Yahweh or El or whoever.
And this is such a great introduction.
I really think it's it's more than an introduction.
You've got to know some things as you dive in.
But he goes into the science behind perception
and how the ancients would have probably viewed and understood their deity and such.
And then I in an interview I did with him.
He actually teased me that his dissertation he did.
He presents Yahweh as a potential man from antiquity.
No, dude, imagine this and I try you can you can stop sharing now.
But I hope people will go and get a copy of this.
It's free if you don't want the paperback or the hardback.
I was just about to post that link.
If you if you can't afford to support Dan on his work,
he's put it for free on his link tree.
So you can go check it out.
Dan is.
Without a doubt.
Yeah, holy shit.
Like I just can't even words kind of he's just he's the man.
I got a panel on the bell on.
I watch everything. Yeah, dude.
He's he's dropping those shorts and engaging with the most cringe stuff online.
You got to give people like that credit one thing.
And I'll shut up.
I was explaining this book to my brother-in-law one.
And I said, now imagine three, four thousand years ago,
a warrior of his tribe was named Juan,
somewhere in Arabia, northern Arabia.
Who knows their desert dwellers and they combat, right?
And this dude was just a beast.
I tried to make it personal by calling him one to make a point.
Don't know anybody four thousand years ago named Juan.
But anyway, so he ends up being a badass in his tribe.
And his tribe venerates, but he dies of victorious death in battle.
He's a man of war, OK?
He's a man of war, as the God of the Hebrew Bible says, I am I am a man of war.
And these tribes venerate him,
even put a tombstone, a standing stone, let's say, that represents Juan.
And Juan evolves over time
to the point where people in the 21st century are saying,
Juan is outside space and time and controls all fabric of reality
because their philosophy has evolved. Right.
So now Juan, this man who once was just like you and me,
the Mormons might be onto something here, just saying,
ends up becoming the God and creator of all substance, like all existence.
Wild. That's so wild.
In fact, to answer Digital Hammurabi's presuppositional argument,
it is one that we owe credit for all of the existence and truth
and any claims that we ever make.
So our foundation is built on one.
All right, that is the kind of perception I tried to paint to my brother-in-law.
And he was just like, you're kidding.
Holy smokes.
So it made him think, like, you should go check out the book.
There's my book.
Awesome. That's great.
Now, my choice for overview was just quick, quick,
just quick super chat before you say that, Neil. Please do.
I have a Bible.
Anyone was that a Bible?
Anyone read the book?
Has anyone read the Bible?
Anyone heard of that?
No, what is that?
No, I haven't heard of the Bible.
Oh, thank you.
Well, actually, to be like a nerd or like us, you know, like to like,
well, actually one of those needs is the Biblio take us that were in the Greek world.
You had Diodorus of Sycholus, who wrote a Biblio take about the ancient
pagan gods like Dionysus and Diana.
And then you have the Biblio take of Apollodorus of Rhodes,
who sort of takes Hesiod's myth and sort of like compresses it.
So Bibles were already a thing before the Christian Bible.
I just.
You always have.
You always have a fascinating answer.
That's amazing.
Which Bible?
I don't. I've never heard of a book.
Yeah, never. Yeah.
This means library.
Biblio take it.
Yeah.
Awesome.
OK, yeah, Neil, what is that like button?
You know, like button people and guys,
just a reminder, if you do hashtag 50, what was it?
If you do hashtag 50, 50 deep drinks.
Yeah, that's it.
You go in the chance to win a fifty dollar
Amazon gift card, my thanks to you for tuning in and super chatting and helping
this channel grow and make sure you share and do hashtag 50 deep drinks for a
chance to win a fifty dollar Amazon gift card so you can buy some of these amazing
books. Neil, what is your book?
Mary Beards, Religions of Rome.
Hands down. I didn't even think about this.
She's a beast.
It was going to be between between Alexander to Actium.
That was another one.
That's a big chunky book about the world, the Mediterranean world between Alexander.
They're great and up until the time of Augustus.
But I wanted to go with the religious texts.
And this is my favorite is like 90 percent of the sources I use for my videos
is probably from something in here.
And she just wow.
This is if you if you if you're like a big fan of ancient religions,
you have to have this.
Just you have to.
Oh, man.
There's no way around.
And by the way, she is huge.
And what I mean is like big name, popular documentaries.
They're obviously only having her on, judging her by cup size.
But, you know, you know, obviously,
no, I actually really help you live that down.
Like he's the rest of his career is fucked.
These really help me my deconversion.
Not not that they're like counter-apologetic books,
but they demonstrate that all these religions that these Romans are taking
part of are very they're the way religion is done.
There's only certain things that religious people do.
There's so much overlap between all these religions.
And this book, these books really show that they really are.
You're touching something so important now.
I mean, we're dealing with the same.
And Karakuni says it, we're dealing with the same elements, the same material
substance for which all these religions are coming out of to pretend that one is
unique and all the others are not like they're all unique.
If you want to be if you want to be the glass half full and act like one special,
they're all special.
Yeah, like or they're all not.
OK, so however you want to look at it, but not one over all of the others, right?
So there's like it one might get favored by certain groups and whatever.
It might adapt and change better.
It might have something better about it in a political situation, whatever.
But like I love what Mary Beard does there as you're describing.
And I emailed her and I told you I was going to try and get it for the show.
So you mean they could interview her.
I used to be she's too big.
She told me she's like I don't do interviews anymore.
She's like a documentary scholar like this is big TV and good for her.
Maybe one day I'm not going to give up on one day.
Hey, boys.
Wait, let's let's documentary.
Are you kidding me?
Like, I've got you know, we've got backgrounds and we can do this.
Let's make a documentary.
Why don't we make a documentary week?
It's just I can actually bring something.
I can bring something to the table with that, at least I can.
I can bring in the editing, the post production, the production.
Like that's why it's good.
Yeah, yeah, we got a lot of scholars that we can do a little snippets of,
like get their takes, get their like cut to them.
Sit talking about their their thing that they had their PhD on.
And like you can put together a nice piece with the yeah, you know.
I think.
I think so.
So what Nils get in the next book?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
OK, so the next one is this is early church writing, right?
This one is my favorite.
And your UCBS, let me guess.
You see that was I was thinking about going with this with the not the church
history book with the leading up to the preparation for the gospel,
because it's so deep in the what Eusebius thinks of Christianity.
But I actually went with this.
Hippolytus,
reputation of all in this.
Where have I heard that from before?
I brought it up in the last time I went live with you.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
In this text, Hippolytus is refuting all the Christian heresies of all these,
you know, no scenes and carpal creations and
Simonians and all these different Sethians, Valentinians.
And he's describing them all and he's trying to refute them.
But I can't help it.
The more he talks with them, the more I like them.
So he actually actually backfired on this guy.
He tried to make you try to refute these Christians.
But he's making me like them the more I read about them.
That's why this is such a good book.
Damn, he's refuting all the heresies.
But really, he's making someone like me.
I guess maybe people back then didn't thought he was,
you know, you know, maybe they thought his arguments were convincing.
But I'm like, who are these Christians?
They seem pretty cool.
Why can't we have Christians like that today?
Right. You know, that's an interesting.
Yeah, I didn't think about that for early church writing.
I almost was thinking of the
Contra Kelsus or Kelsus, you know, in what he says.
But that's not an early church writing.
That's that's kind of a refutation against them.
Right. You're going with the church father himself.
For me, for me, this is going to sound weird the way I'm painting this.
Because I almost went with papias because I love his exaggerated narratives
about Judas's death.
He bloated to the size of a wagon.
His eye sockets had pus coming out of him.
He had he had a semen coming out of his junk on me like like it's vivid.
Right. And he preferred oral tradition over like writing.
And so he liked when people told stories.
For me, this is a different way in which I'm trying to get into the early church
fathers. This is Resurrection and Reception in Early Christianity by Richard C.
Miller that I just recently read.
This let me just tell you why this goes to the church fathers.
It's not an early church father writing, but he highlights Justin Martyr's apology.
Right. So he wants to show in this book and I think it's solid.
And I'll paint it a little apologetic as to why I think this is good here.
OK.
He points out that Justin Martyr in his apology compares the Jesus movement,
the Christ cult, to the sons of Zeus cults.
Yeah. And he says, we believe in the Greek,
nothing different than what you are teaching and believing about your sons of Zeus.
And then he even gets into the whole of Mercury's called the Logos.
Like, if you keep going and Justin Martyr's passage into like,
what do you guys, you guys talk about Mercury is he's like the Logos.
We have Jesus.
What's the why are you making fun of us?
Well, this is what is very interesting about that Justin Martyr.
And I could have just said the apology by Justin Martyr.
But the problem is, is it goes all over the place.
And this actually is highlighting something significant to the Greek world.
And he's saying, if you notice in there in the list that he gives
with a Slepius and Dionysus and Zeus and all of the stuff,
he points out in Hercules, he points out that there's eyewitnesses.
Justin Martyr says, you know how you guys have eyewitnesses for the Caesars
having apotheosis and becoming gods?
Well, we have the same thing.
And so the whole point of this book is to show you all the way from Justin Martyr,
early church fathers back into the New Testament literature,
you're dealing with a topos of legend and mythology.
This is they're they're making it up.
The Ascension narrative of Jesus is similar to Romulus.
The the empty tomb is the missing body trope.
And chapter two in this, he goes through hundreds of missing bodies in the Greek
world and all of their narratives signify, oh, they became a god.
So when a person's body is going missing,
that meant they became a god.
So.
Resurrect.
That's that's super interesting.
Yeah, because it's it's if you were looking at genre.
OK, and you were looking at whatever music, whatever.
And this song sounds similar to some heavy metal song that you like tool.
OK, you hear someone in their rock sound similar to the to the band tool.
Yeah.
And then someone comes along and tries to tell you like, no, no, no, this is hip hop.
It sounds it looks even the lyrics like all of this.
This is what you brought up with Michael Jones, right?
Yes, it's the same walks like a duck talks like a duck.
It's the trope is legendary.
It's mythological.
It's within the trope and the bigger scheme of the Greco-Roman world.
The impact on Christians was far greater from the Roman Empire and from the
Mediterranean world than the Christians were to them.
It wasn't till three, four centuries later that Christianity even becomes
really influential in any respectable way.
So pretending that they had like the they are the ones making the impact.
That's like saying that Sargon's birth narrative copied Moses,
where we know the Assyrians and the Babylonians conquered and ruled this small
minority people. Right. No.
The reason Moses was found in a basket in a river is because they were ruled by
people who had a king who literally in their narratives had been in a basket and what not.
So it is so direction of influence is also in Romulus and Remus get put in a basket.
There's like a basket trope on all these different myths and Romulus and Remus
have the same thing, you know,
Dr. Josh Digital Hammurabi.
He talked about that when he came on Deep Drinks first time, like that the story
of like, I'm going to screw this up, but essentially the Epic of Gilgamesh is like
this narrative of like, you know, moving towards civilization.
And then you've got and then the Abrahamic religion is all about moving away
from what is that? Oh, is that in there as well?
That's that one I already showed you.
Ronald Hindle goes over that within his work.
Yeah. Fantastic stuff.
One of the polemic is that the difference is what matters sometimes.
Yeah, it's like they're they're responding to something that they're trying to flip.
It's it's not it's not like actual history.
It's like it's like it's like a this is our story.
You know, like, yeah, it's different.
Just just before I talk about my book, I wanted to chat.
GP GP, sorry.
Asked, is there any good recommendations for gay
relationships in the ancient world?
I do want to just shout this book out.
It's called Christianity, Social Tolerance and Homosexuality.
It's by John Boswell.
It is apparently like I looked at all the reviews for this.
He's a very scholarly, but a lot of
a lot of gay Christians have read that and then, you know, found themselves a lot
more comfortable with their sexual identity.
But I'm only just a little bit the way through this, but I've heard really good
reviews about it. So I've linked there.
Do you guys have any resources for what's interesting in the in the in the ancient
Greek world, they don't have a word for gay.
Just love. It's just man to man or two women.
There's no they didn't say I love you boys.
There's no gauge.
There's just people who love each other.
Like, so you have representation.
Like I mentioned, Opens Metamorphosis.
You have Apollo and I can.
This is why I have a relationship.
You have Zeus and Ganymaid.
It takes him as his cup bearer and he's in love with them.
He thinks he's the most beautiful boy in the whole world.
And so there's representation in the Greek world.
They just don't call. They don't they don't label it.
That's why I don't want to get caught up in this.
But I wonder if our categories are harmful
rather than it being more fluid.
And I think that's what the LGBTQ plus
community is trying to do in terms of saying we're all humans and there's various.
There's 50 shades of gray, baby.
I mean, like, like my point is, is there's so much nuance and we've created categories.
Oh, you only like these people.
Like people loved everybody and it was totally normal.
Yeah. And for those who are part of the
patron and you should become part of patron if you can afford to support this
channel, because I'm doing my best to create some good content over there.
But I did interview Pepe, Julian or Zimmer, but the interviewer was
distraught because of internet things.
He's a trans man. You'll know him from the why you gay
clip online. You are gay.
It's like a famous instant meme.
But he we talked about we only got about 20 minutes in.
But it's on the patron and do not have to censor anything yet.
So Uganda is creating a new bill at the moment where if you're gay, you can
where you're so currently it's illegal to be gay, like to practice homosexuality.
But now they're trying to extend it so that if Pepe is a trans man and if you
have to, if you just appear to be
transgender or you don't conform to binary rules, you can go to prison for up to
20, 10 years, sorry.
So he's been arrested a bunch of times.
He's an LGBT activist.
We had to hide a lot of his stuff and censor things anyway.
But the part of the interview is there.
But the reason I bring this up is because Uganda used to have tribes with
third gender. They had a famously bisexual king who he did rape his servants,
but he raped men and women.
So hey, equality, right?
But the not not a good dude, but he was famously and openly bisexual.
Uganda didn't have an issue with homosexuality until colonial colonialism
and especially until evangelicalism came into and started influencing Uganda.
And now a lot of the Ugandan people like we don't want homosexuality here,
but it's like, hey, back in the day, like 200 years ago, no one had an issue with
homosexuality. There were there were third genders in certain tribes that
didn't stuff like that. So yeah, it's wild.
When I was doing the recess in political, the politicalization, if you will,
of this and so yeah.
So Constellation Pegasus says I'm tired of this LGBT gay stuff popping up.
I hope that you stop getting tired of it.
This is my honest, like I love seeing Constellation in the chat and super chats.
But like if you're not recognizing the kind of harm, if it's if it's a trigger
to even be bringing this up, then I wonder if there is a bit of
something inside of you that makes you not like this politically speaking or
something, but we really need to spearhead the that resistance to openly talking about
this, because you go into antiquity, the Greek world, you love like the stuff we're
talking about here and things that Neil's bringing up, these mystery cults.
All of these people practiced this stuff very openly and it is not
socially normal.
This is something we're trying to make more socially norm.
So I hope that that is the encouragement to use.
Like, don't get tired of it.
Yeah, people had to hide who they really are.
Yeah, this is because of how they were
treated or how it was a taboo because of, you know, evangelical fundamentalism
running American culture for so long.
And it's like now people are finally allowed to be who they are.
But there still is that leftover group that still exists.
And it's a huge problem still.
I would just say the reason I got this book is because I went halves with my
Christian friend who made a ministry college first, first ever guest on Deep Drinks.
He was closet of 45 years and he was really struggling with depression and
suicidal thoughts, and it was because he just thought that he had nothing after
his parents would pass away.
He's like, what do I have to live for?
And I was like, you can get into a relationship and have a loving, happy life.
And that's why we got this book.
So that's that's part of the reason
why I try to be the best ally that I can be for the LGBT because I know that so
many people are suffering for no good fucking reason.
Stephanie, thank you for the stupid chat.
Stephanie, Jordan, good sources for apocryphal text.
Oh, yeah.
You are the man with that part of one of the questions for later on.
But I might since they're asking for this is my go to
the James Charles worth pseudopigrapha Old Testament text right here.
It's got everything.
It's everything's in here.
It's Old Testament, but there is there is a lot of
there is a lot of Christian era text, too.
So there's like the Jewish orific stuff.
There's the pseudo phylo stuff, a lot of stuff.
So it's a lot of a little bit of everything in here.
A lot of Greek, a lot of Hebrew, stuff like that.
Obviously translated to English, but like it's got all the commentaries on the
bottom from the from the scholars.
A lot of people worked on this.
You know, that's is that in your is that in your book list?
It's it's it's actually you're what you're I think it's your last question.
No, no, not your oh, no, it's the next question.
Two questions from now.
But it was the Bible books want to pick Genesis, but we'll get to that later.
But yeah, it's in the list.
Awesome.
OK, cool. I'll I'll post that when we get to it.
But that's that's that's awesome.
Thank you for the Super Chat and thank you for the Super Chat chat, GPT.
My book, which I just want to make sure we're getting through this,
because I'm just as bad as I'm the worst at getting distracted.
Early early Christian writings.
So for me, it has to be probably the only one I've ever actually read properly.
Is Saint Ignatius of Antioch, the epistles.
And it was this one one quote that I picked up this whole book for.
And I'll just quickly read part of that.
So he's he's on his way to I think it was Rome to be fed to the lions.
He said he said,
I am the wheat of God and let me be ground by the teeth of the wild beasts
that I may be found the pure bread of Christ, rather enticed the beasts that they
may become my tomb and may leave nothing of my body so that when I have fallen
asleep in death, I may be no trouble to anyone.
Then I should truly be a disciple of Christ when the world shall not see my body.
See me as my body.
So it's like, so what are you saying here?
And I missed the start there.
Unfortunately, I perceive you not to show an unreasonable goodwill towards me,
suffer me to become food for the wild beasts.
He's like saying to the Christians, only then will I become a disciple of Jesus
when these these lions have consumed me and eaten my like.
Don't don't try and rescue me.
And I'm like, damn, I like this is a Christian like this is a Christian.
A lot of these early Christians weren't playing around.
They were they were they were they were dropping out of society.
Like what's yeah, they were like they were living in poverty.
They were living on top of pillars for 30 years.
They were saying, I'll I'll go I'll go to the cross.
I'll do it like they were really hardcore about Christianity early on, you know.
100 percent back to me, I guess, one book on deconstructing.
And this book I read every time I need to build up my faith in atheism.
I'm just making clips for the apologists to use.
No, this book really touched me.
And I never thought a book on atheism could have such an impact on like my spirit.
Like, I don't know.
I don't believe we have a spirit, but like whatever that is inside there,
that feeling.
This book, I read this book and I just I don't agree with everything the author
says, his portraits on my wall, though.
I, you know, he says some of the cringe stuff about women and stuff, whatever.
But what he says in this book just blew me away, especially the first half.
God is not great by Christopher Hitchens.
And I'm lucky enough to find this first edition copy in a secondhand bookstore
in Brisbane. It is a fantastic book.
I cannot speak highly enough of it.
And the audio is is available on YouTube for free written read by Christopher
Hitchens with beautiful piano music in between.
I'll post a link. It's amazing.
It's really good. Wow.
For me, that's my book.
Nice. Mine.
No doubt.
Oh, yeah.
Old Testament. OK.
So I was going to go with that one, but then I heard Derek say he's going to do it.
So that's just so you know, this is my choice as well.
But I switch it just so we didn't have the same one.
The reason and in why I love this, it's it's not just like, all right.
So you went with like, you could go with
it's a good you could go with like a Richard Dawkins book or Christopher Hitchens book.
Or you can get like delusion.
Everyone knows about the God delusion.
Or yeah, yeah, yeah.
You could go with like a Daniel C.
Denon or something like breaking the spell and stuff like that.
And that's more scientific and that's cool.
But like, deconversion for me, the way that Josh
goes to the text, that's what I like.
Right. You're dealing with the Bible, right?
So like a lot of people aren't aware of what the Bible is and what is going on in
this literature and what he does so well, being an expert and a scholar who knows
how to comb academic work, whereas like me, me and Neil, we know this probably.
To some degree, we know how to go and search the sources.
Check out what scholars say on this topic.
But like Josh is trained in this and what he has done in this work is he's taken
like the bird in the nest and we're all like little chickens in the nest.
Don't know how to fly on our own.
He he flies.
He picks up all of the good stuff that other academics have said.
Ronald Handel pops up in this a lot.
Other academics throughout the ancient
Eastern literature, Hebrew Bible, whatever, and then he brings it back,
digests it and then kind of helps you to understand what they're saying to show
you how what apologists are saying, what what people who are around here trying to
say, this literally happened or saying, is it the case?
Archaeologically, literary wise, shows you the myths in which they come from,
how this is made.
So without a doubt, the audio version, of course, is there.
You've got it in paperback.
And I might as well tease some people.
I'm going to be using I'm going right here to the chat room.
I'm doing a Genesis series soon.
And it's actually going to be a scripted Genesis series.
So anyone who's here, you've got the inside scoop front row seat here.
I'm doing a scripted Genesis series that Josh sent me where we're going to actually
go into Genesis and show you what's going on.
And I hope to put like really good visuals up and make it nice and sexy.
I asked Josh, I paid for a signed copy of this book because I agree with you.
I feel like if I would have found this book first, I feel like the God is not great
for me is like it's where it landed for me in my deconstruction process.
I feel like if I read this, it'd be the same.
But I asked him, I said, you need to write something for sassy when you sign it.
And Megan and him both sign it, which I ask all authors to do.
So he goes, David, I have a freestyle rap for you.
Tang gang, do the thing.
David Donald is a bit pretty good, right?
Love you, man.
And that's in reference to this time that
Jenna made up a rumor and I did a rap on Tang, which was horrible.
And I called heathen queen a bitch.
And then and then Megan wrote and this this was the most insulting thing I've ever
seen, which was you're an OK bloke for a Kiwi, Megan.
And
and I thought I thought legitimately that she thought I was from New Zealand.
And that's that's so offensive to an Australian and vice versa.
And I was like, Megan, I texted Megan, I'm Australian.
She's like, I know. And I was like, oh, you conniving.
That is the best.
That is the most that that's not even like that that hurts me.
And I was like, so fantastic, Megan.
Yeah, 100 percent. Awesome.
Great book, Neil.
My turn. OK.
So obviously I had to switch mine up from from from Derek's because we had the same
choice and I was just going to go with the easy.
Everyone knows Richard Dawkins, God, delusion.
I was like, well, everyone knows that.
I'm not recommending anything anyone doesn't know.
This is just standard
deconversion texts that people know about.
So I went I went back to the sources like I do.
I go back to the primary sources and I went with arguments of Kelsus,
porphyry and the Emperor Julian against the Christians.
You would. And you would.
It is so good.
And what it does is it highlights that before Christianity became the church
of Rome and became, you know, all of the standard religion of all Europe and base.
Before that happened, there were people who were arguing and making their cases
against Christianity and they were making the same arguments that you hear today
from me and Derek and they they were going at Christianity.
They were throwing everything at it and they were really making good art.
And Kelsus is the best out of these.
I think like he's like, he's like, wait a minute,
you're telling me that this guy resurrected from the dead.
Nobody saw him and he just went to this one girl and then she told everybody and
we're supposed to believe that like, like Kelsus is like really ripping into this thing.
Kelsus is also bringing out like alternative theories as well.
Kelsus is like, well, he might have been the son of a Roman stone.
Is this so there's a lot of really good nuggets in here.
What is it called?
Kelsus, get this one.
So you can get Kelsus separately.
You can get porphyry separately or the emperor.
Arguments of Kelsus.
This has everything all into one.
It's scholar select version.
And so it's all in one spot.
You get all of your early sources of people arguing against Christianity.
And it's good stuff.
You can get it used right now for what it is.
Julian, the emperor was like, what are you guys?
You Alexandrians, you have the greatest gods, Serapis, you have Isis.
You don't need Christianity.
What are you? What's Christianity?
Like, it's really, really, it's a good read.
It's a good read.
Also, also.
OK, I think you go again and we are up to your favorite book in the Bible.
So this will just be an easy one.
So I picked Genesis and the reason I did to I did to
as far as like recommending things, the Old Testament pseudopagor for text for
OK, all of this is you got your jubilee, you got your jasher,
you got all these different.
They're basically like Genesis, but the different tellings of Genesis.
And you have all that stuff in here.
So but Genesis is my pick.
But you know what?
It's just it's so so rich in sources.
It's drawing from all these different Mesopotamian, Egyptian stuff.
It's the first story.
You got your creation, you got your tower or bedbell.
It's the best story, I think.
Yeah, I'm with you.
And I think also it's easy to show anyone who's really willing and open minded
to look at tearing down inerrancy and problems of like doublets and triplets.
There's there's like repetitive narratives that kind of like hold on what
this, you know, the wife of Abraham going to getting sleeping with Pharaoh,
for example, like happens twice and then it happens to Isaac and his wife.
And it's like these this did that really happen?
Like it's easy to show that this probably didn't actually happen.
Well, there's a website that you can go to called answers and Genesis.
And they'll explain how it happens.
But it's also it's not only that I think we appreciate it.
Me and Neil both picked it as a favorite
by a book in the Bible.
Look at how often it is used and reused.
Enoch literally is rewriting it and makes the figure notice it isn't Moses.
They don't want to harp on Moses.
They want Enoch, the one who walked with God and was not an entire Jewish movement.
We would say a complete category of their own Judaism is literally stemming out
of the book of Genesis.
Look at Jubilees, a rewrite of Genesis.
Look at so there's so much, even with Paul, he wants to talk about Genesis.
He goes back to Adam.
He wants to they're all riffing off this book because this book is so important.
I just don't see Deuteronomy being like this whole.
Everybody's so excited about Deuteronomy's law codes and stuff like, no, screw that book.
You know, like, anyway.
That's that's awesome.
Well, mine, mine isn't as interesting as that.
Mine is one, John.
For some reason, I've just always loved this book.
I've got the Bible that I use through ministry college.
You can see my beautiful notes at the front here, writing, writing stuff.
But I just love how poetic it is.
This message, this is the message that we have heard from him and the clergy.
You God is light in him.
There is no darkness at all.
If we claim to have fellowship with him, yet a walk in the darkness, we lie and do
not live by the truth.
But if we walk in the light as he's in the light, we have fellowship with one another
and the blood of Jesus, his son, purifies us from all sin.
I don't know. To me, that's that's even I don't believe it.
Beautiful, like it's in the ethos around that is really cool.
I really liked, I really like one, John.
So that's my pick.
OK, nice.
Good. And well, that's me again.
Snake arm.
Courage.
So and there's no links for that.
Everyone knows where to forget a Bible.
But my book, my favorite novel.
This is my this is the novel.
And this this almost fell into the book that shaped you,
which is coming up.
But Haruki Murakami, Norwegian Wood.
It's a Japanese author.
He deals in like magical realism and stuff like that.
This book doesn't have any magical realism.
It's about teen angst, suicide, sex,
relationships, depression, anxiety.
This book, just something about this book, just just fucking hits you.
Like it's the way it's written amazing.
It just it I this book got me back on to novels like this book.
I think I get I realize you get so much real
world value from novels.
So yeah, that's my recommendation.
Norwegian Wood by Haruki Murakami is a pervert.
If anyone reads Kafka on the Shore, you know, there's a little bit of
erotica in there, a little bit of incest, a little bit of rape.
It's pretty brutal.
So I've been I've been suggesting that book to everyone.
But I mean, since I've reread it, did I
realize how much erotica is in that?
So but anyway, Murakami is fantastic.
And this book is fantastic as well.
The dude gets up every day.
He's like 70 or something.
I don't know how exactly he's old.
He goes for a 12 K run and then he writes for like six hours a day.
He gets up at like four a.m.
writes for four hours, goes for a 12 K run, comes back, does more writing.
He's just like obsessed with writing.
So yeah, really, really cool, dude.
Hurricane Murakami, Norwegian Wood.
Mine is the works of Lucian of Sama Sada.
So much more scully than mine.
Look, in this, I mean, this is the full like tons and tons of the works.
I mean, this is big to write that in the ancient world.
You had to be an OG, OK?
And this was an OG.
And the thing about Lucian and his works is the true story.
He has a section, the true the true history, the true story.
And really it's the whole even the name of the book is a joke.
He's trying to tell you this is true history, but it's not.
It's all BS and like he makes fun of Christians.
He makes fun of everyone, not just Christians, any and every little supernatural claim.
Like in the way he does it today, we may have to our culture like ways where it's
funny to us, but if we try to put ourselves in the shoes of the ancients,
he's ahead of his time.
He's making comedy of people like,
for example, in the Odyssey or the Iliad, one of the figures dies.
I can't remember.
It's it's the warrior who comes back, whose wife cuts his head off.
I can't remember the name of his.
Him he's in Hades Odysseus comes Achilles.
No, not Achilles.
He's beheaded.
Oh, Diomedes, I think it is.
No, no, it's a different guy.
But that's actually something that we'll get into probably at least in passing.
And then in the coming book.
But he like he needs to know, no, no, no, it's tantalus.
Tantalus is dying.
So this isn't the Odyssey.
This is in the Greek world, though.
He's reaching for he wants to reach the food, but it's always out of his reach.
And he can never get the water, even though it's right up to his lips.
He can never just quench his thirst.
And they're like, so why are you?
Why are you needing this food anyway?
You're like a bodyless phantom.
Well, that's my punishment.
And they're like, but like the water and food never is going to enter you anyway.
So like, why are you you don't need it?
You're not a physical human like us.
So he's joking on them.
Like, in a way, he's kind of scientific, like mocking to go like,
dude, you don't have a body.
Why do you need food?
You don't have a it's just going to go right through.
You're like a phantom.
You're you're a shadow.
That reminds you, there's a story of Anaxagoras meeting up with the Orphics
and they're, you know, they're telling the Orphics are like the ancient evangelists
at the time, they're trying to get everybody to convert and, you know,
and Anaxagoras is like, wait a minute.
So you're telling me that if I do this, this and that, I'll have eternal life.
Like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
He's like, so why are you?
Why don't you just kill yourself and go to your eternal heaven?
That's right.
It was just like, whoa, this dude was like a skeptic before anybody.
You know what I mean?
That's what Lucian is.
And he does funny things where there's a mockery of the Jesus story,
where Jesus walks on water and they literally he has a moment where they,
the people, they come out of the water finally and they realize that the group
had cork shoes so that the reason they floated is because their shoes were made
of cork and so like he's mocking them, like they're walking on water stories.
I think it's Lucian.
No, no, that's a different.
It's a different author who also jabs at the Christians and says, like, you
called this the this is not a sea of Galilee.
You guys made that up.
It was never called a sea before you guys came on the scene.
But Lucian, isn't this the first image of Jesus ever ever?
It was this one, right?
It's like Jesus.
Well, that's not the first one, but it's the oldest that we have.
Yeah. And it's like Jesus with a donkey head.
It's like, yeah, it's called the Eleximonus Graffiti.
And it says, Eleximonus worships his God in Latin and make it fun of the Christians.
Yeah. Wow.
Crazy.
So is it mine?
So mine, basically, I picked the Alexander romance.
But the this is where you should get if you're going to instead of buying the Oxford
translation, you might as well just get this.
It's collected ancient Greek novels, B.P.
Reardon, it's got the Alexander Greek romance.
It also has a bunch of Lucian stuff in here, too.
It has it has Appalias is golden ass.
It has it has a B.P.
Reardon, Lucian's treat.
Yes, Lucian's story.
It has Longus's Daphnis and Chloe.
It's got all these ancient Greek novels, but and it also contains the Greek
Alexander romance in here.
So you might as well just get this.
If you're going to get the Alexander Greek romance,
you just have all these other extra books with it.
So this is my pick right here for novels.
Awesome.
Cool. And then it goes back to me again.
Yep. Yep.
No, yeah, yeah.
Yeah. So now we are up to our current favorite.
Yeah, my current favorite.
This is the one that I keep.
I keep pulling back up when I'm reading before I go to sleep a lot.
Current favorite book, Diogenes Lertius, the lives of the imminent philosophers.
Oh, this is a text about the ancient.
It's it's like stories about these ancient Greek
pre-Socratics, Solon, the lawgiver, Pythagoras, Socrates, Epicurus.
And he's just going from from from from from a time period to time period.
Wow, I'm like 600 BC up until, you know, the third century BCE.
And he's writing about all the people and he's putting it all in one spot.
And this is a really good text, by the way.
So this is my current favorite.
I I know I'll be getting that one.
Like that's
that's that's the reason why it's so interesting.
He's telling stories about these ancient
philosophers and a lot of the stories are miracle stories.
For example, in the story of Pythagoras, apparently Pythagoras had the power to
play music that can heal people and he can also speak the language of the animals.
He can talk to like cows and donkeys and birds and he was magical.
Basically, like a lot of it's not just him.
It's like Epicurus, who is a rationalist, even he's doing miracles.
Like what we're all just doing miracles, I guess.
So it's just the way the people told stories about other people usually are legends.
And this is this is no different.
I love it.
Guys, I just want to shout out to make sure you
include hashtag 50 deep drinks in the chat for your chance to win
a 50 dollar Amazon gift card so you can purchase these amazing books.
And if you use the links that I've been posting in chat and I will eventually
update them in the description, you will help support this channel
because they're Amazon affiliate links.
So thank you very much and share this out on social media.
Yeah, share it out, share, share, share and tag me.
I'll make sure to send you
emoji if you share if you share a fun emoji.
OK, so my next my favorite right now book and this changes, right?
Literally monthly, this changes because I'm going into a new scholar.
I'm diving into a new subject.
Well, right now I'm editing this course.
I just finished yesterday with Dennis R.
McDonald, Dennis R.
McDonald's latest greatest book, Synopsis of Epic Tragedy and the Gospels.
It is not like any normal book.
It's not like you read it from beginning to end.
It is a tool book and it has everything almost that he has ever published that is
valuable in comparing New Testament literature with Greek literature.
And he Bible the whole nine.
But he does something no one else does, really capitalizes in showing you what's
going on in the Greek world.
And so I want to read this the first time.
I think I deserve it because, you know, we would never get off the show if we read
from every book that we had.
But in this book, I really do want to read and the way I want to do this,
though, is I want to share my screen and I'm actually going to let everybody see
what I'm looking at here, because this is actually the template I used to edit
the course with.
And so it is for those who aren't able to read through this five, six hundred page
book, this is you're seeing the book here.
But the book's only like 30 bucks on Amazon and it is well worth all of it.
Well worth every penny.
There is a section in the upcoming course that I'm going to be selling when it's
fully up and ready.
It is a lecture number six.
Jesus and Odysseus confront savages who live in caves.
And I want to scroll down here to
this box, OK, to give you a little recap, just just so I'm teasing you,
you see the art here, that's a cyclops on this face.
The one eyed cyclops polyphemus is the name Homer's polyphemus, right?
So this is the cyclops and Odysseus and his crew are the guys on the left who are
like ramming it into his eye to blind him.
Well, the stories are very similar to what you find in the gospels.
Going here, cyclops here, drink wine after you have eaten human flesh because he's
a cannibal, I bring it to you as a libation so that you might take pity on me and
send me homeward, but your mania no longer is tolerable.
Cruel man, how will many other people later come to you since you have not acted
according to custom? Thus I spoke and he took gulped it down and was enormously
delighted as he drank the sweet drink.
He asked me for it again a second time, please give it to me again and tell me
your name, tell me your name.
Then I spoke to him with kind words, his name, nobody is my name.
They call me nobody, mother, father and all my comrades as well.
Anyway, the story continues.
This is all from the Greek Odyssey.
I want to just mention as we're getting into the gospels in Odyssey book 10 and 11,
10 and 11, you have Polyphemus, the Cyclops story going from the crazy land
where the Cyclops eat people cannibals the whole nine to number book 11 is
Cersei the witch.
OK, and in the story, you have this lawless naked cannibal who's crazy,
who's eating people, and you have Cersei who converts or changes through a
potion, soldiers into pigs.
Now I just wanted to paint this.
Check this out.
This is connections.
This is one of the strongest ones.
This is why some of them are less powerful.
This one without a doubt, bro.
You cannot walk away and think there's not something going on.
And let me tease you one more time before we read these parallels.
OK,
that's what is about to be presented this information live on the vision.
Dude, we have scholars.
We look.
See, it's such hot information that Neil's camera.
Neil's camera.
Shit, his shit.
Fuck this, man.
I can't handle the heat.
And it's that high temperature.
OK, that's fucking wild.
So listen to this.
I recently interviewed a series with Allison Delcy Allison, Jr.
from Princeton University, right?
Princeton Theological Seminary.
And he told me when I said history or not in the Gospel of Mark, he said,
I'll tell you what, I don't know what to make of this story with the the demoniac
and the pigs, and I don't even know what to do with it.
He said, I've looked hard into the Hebrew Bible because notice they're trained.
Scholars are trained, right, literally only to look at LXX or Hebrew Bible.
They do not look at this Greek world that I'm telling you you have to look at from
Dennis, I knew the answer.
Dennis said, I don't even know where to look.
I knew exactly where to look.
And it sounds condescending, but I don't give a shit because I'm tired of.
Dennis, Dennis, go ahead and open that door open now.
It's open. It is wide open.
And let me show you the comparison.
Let me show you this.
All right.
This is Odyssey 9 and 10, not 10 and 11.
My bad. 9 and 10.
Odysseus and crew sell to the land of the Cyclops and of Cersei.
Jesus and his disciples sell to the region of the garrisons.
Not right there, bro.
Think about this.
Sell to the land of the garrisons.
Like, dude, the Lake of Galilee is not that big.
We were on it. I mean, it's big for a lake.
You can see all the way across it.
You can see everything.
You got a sell to the land of it.
Like that, bro.
It ain't like that.
So this is clearly riffing off of the earlier Mediterranean sea narratives
that are found in the Odyssey, the Iliad or any other Greek literature.
The Virgil's Iliad, the Aeneid, all of that.
Yeah, you got to sell to this faraway land.
It makes it sound like no, it isn't.
It's it's a lake.
It's like it's like it's not actually it's not even as big as Lake Erie.
I was going to say it's like it's like someone going to the land of Buffalo.
And like the galley is way smaller than Lake Erie.
Yes, this is not like a lot smaller.
On mountains of the Cyclops, innumerable goats grazed Cersei turned soldiers
into wine, a swine, sorry, on the mountain, a large herd of swine grazed.
Odysseus and crew disembarked.
You've got this Greek term here for disembarked.
Jesus and his disciples disembarked.
And the Greek is very similar of them disembarking.
OK, they encountered a savage, lawless giant who lived in a cave.
They encountered a savage, lawless demoniac who lived amongst the caves.
Polyphemus usually was depicted nude in any art you see.
For example, you see up here, he's nude.
OK, and in all the Greek art, he's nude.
The demoniac was nude in the Gospel of Mark.
Cersei recognized Odysseus and asked him not to harm her.
Odysseus, swear me in oath, not to plan another plot to hurt me.
And notice the Greek terms.
He doesn't put them there for any for no reason.
You got to look at the Greek in the New Testament to see why.
But he says not to hurt me.
The giant asked if Odysseus intended to harm him.
Right. This this Cyclops.
The demoniac recognized Jesus and asked him not to harm him.
You, by God, do not torment me.
They beg Jesus, the the the demons.
The giant asked Odysseus his name.
Jesus asked the demoniac his name.
Odysseus answered, nobody is my name.
The demon, the demoniac answered,
Legion is my name.
Many is my name, right?
A large army notice.
Notice they're soldiers, right?
A legion is soldiers.
Cersei turns soldiers into swine.
And in the same narrative, you have swine that the demons the legion are going into.
Anyway, Odysseus subdued the giant with violence and trickery.
Cersei's magic turned Odysseus's soldiers into swine.
Jesus subdued about 2000 demons with his divine power and sent them into the
swine and then drove the swine into the lake.
Polyphemus, the shepherd, called out to his neighbors.
The swine herds called their neighbors in the gospels.
Cyclops came to the site asking about Polyphemus's stolen sheep.
The garrisons came to the site to find out about the swine.
Odysseus and crew disembarked.
Sorry, Jesus and his disciples embarked.
Odysseus told the giant to proclaim that he had blinded him.
You know, tell the people that son of so and so Odysseus is the one who blind you.
Jesus told the hilled demoniac as he got in the boat to proclaim what God
had done for him. Tell them that, you know, God has done this for you.
The giant. Yep.
The giant asked Odysseus now aboard ship to come back.
Hey, come back here, Odysseus.
The demoniac asked Jesus now aboard ship if he could be with him.
And he tells him, no, Odysseus refused the request.
Jesus refused the request.
Odysseus and his crew sailed away.
Jesus and his crew, his disciples, sailed away.
Odysseus awoke during a tempest in the episode immediately following the Cyclops story.
Right after the Cyclops story, Odysseus awoke during a storm on the on the sea.
Jesus awoke during a storm.
Calm the wind and see just before exercising the demoniac.
So rather than it being after
Jesus calms the storm before the authors are reworking the narratives.
Also, any this is any classes will tell you that Odysseus was one of the most
arguably the most famous hero in the Greek world.
Like Odysseus was it.
So it's not this is this is just this is going to sound like silly question.
This is this is pre Christianity, right?
Like this is like 800 years.
Let's say six, seven hundred years.
Yeah, way before.
Bro, listen, this goes back to my earlier point.
I'm going to stop sharing now because I want everybody.
You can't you can't you can't look at the Old Testament and say,
this is prophesying Jesus and then not look at that and say,
like, this isn't like prophesying, but this is like a direct.
You know, what's interesting about that is
Eusebius actually goes that route and says that the Greek world was prophesying
Jesus on top of the Hebrews.
He says, oh, this is not just like some out of left field thing.
There are Christians that were doing this.
And dude, I'm and I'm so this is my favorite book right now because I've never
noticed the things he's describing here.
It turns it into a fiction, right?
So like no matter what you want to do, if you want to try and hunt to see if there's
memory or historical kernel, good luck because they have a reworked a narrative.
If there are historical verisimilitudes, there probably are.
And anyone who's a good writer is going to make a verisimilitude to the reality
of the geography of people at the time of the circumstances that are around this
period, but he shows in this book without a doubt that the Gospels are
literary fictions or mythologies, legends and such that are inventions.
They're narratives.
And if you're not somebody who can handle reading, I hope you will get the book at
least to take the course because we take you through 18 lectures.
Let me I'm doing a plug here.
I'm sorry, but this is like absolutely needed because I'm in love right now.
OK, it starts off Eureka.
I told Dennis sometimes your parallels are over people's heads.
They don't know it.
We need an airplane view of you falling in love with why you started to do what you
did. And he goes into his Eureka moment.
He was driving on a highway.
He tells you this in the introduction.
Reading the Odyssey and the Iliad driving down the highway.
He said, I don't know how the state troopers didn't catch me.
And then realizing after he's been reading the Gospels for years.
Oh, my gosh, something's going on.
So he has a Eureka experience, but he doesn't lecture on it.
He's at college lecturing.
I held off till I could prove what I'm finding here makes the most sense.
And he wrote his first book, of course, and started lecturing on it.
So then we get into Angelica, Nunciations and Luke and Aphrodite's
Annunciation in Chaisis, the empowerment of Jesus and Telemachus when Jesus gets
baptized and he's empowered by the Holy Spirit, a bird or dove flies down.
Athena flies to Telemachus to empower him and tell him you are the son of Odysseus.
Jesus is told by his father in heaven, by the Holy Spirit coming down.
You are my beloved son.
Anyway, Jesus and Telemachus acquire a ship and crew, the empowerment of Telemachus.
Let's see.
Jesus steals a storm like the god Aelis, not like Odysseus.
So he's better than Odysseus.
Jesus and Odysseus confront savages.
Jesus and Apollo staunch hemorrhages.
Remember the woman who had a bleeding condition and was healed?
That ain't the only time a god heals a bleeding condition.
And it's very rare that you find that.
John, the Baptist and Agnominion are both beheaded and the narratives happen at a
feast. There's something going on here because Herod has a great feast.
And anyway, so let's be an MVP course.
Yes, this will be on MVP courses dot com.
And I literally finished editing
yesterday and then I did the commercial this morning before our show to give people
reason to grab a hold.
I did want to shout out your courses.
It's I've signed up for one.
I haven't had a chance to look through it yet.
I think it's this one creating Jesus, why Mark's gospel was forgotten.
Fantastic. Everyone should go.
But I have to say it might all be in vain.
Everything you just said, Derek, because I just checked.
Ancestors and Genesis actually has an answer for this.
Right.
It's just writing.
So you can look through here and it will explain why there are other
religious writings and if they're from God or not.
So sorry.
And I just want to make one point in the chat here.
We IKU study says parallel mania is too fun and sensical to resist.
Right.
So this is the argument that what you're doing is just finding patterns.
Parallel a mania.
OK.
So what I would say and I understand that that's like a common,
I guess you'd say a common like resistance,
almost a poisoning of the well of this position that I'm describing here.
You know, whatever.
There are serious academics,
multiple serious academics who recognize Dennis's work from Robin Faith Walsh,
Richard C. Miller, Richard Carrier, of course, also does see this.
But for those who don't take Richard Carrier serious, I'm telling you,
there are multiple academics that are right now professors in teaching
positions who recognize they don't agree with all of them.
In fact, I'd go so far as to say,
Kip Davis and Matthew Munger, who are in the chat, will say that there are some
of these that are strong, others that may not be as strong.
There are seven criteria within the methodology that Dennis does.
And let me just slam this parallel a mania, one point to make with the seven
criteria, would they have possibly had the material to know?
Well, in order to learn Greek in the first century,
you would have had to have learned Homer's Iliad in the Odyssey.
It was mandatory.
This isn't like to pull in this out of their ass or guessing.
Or this is you had to know this material.
If you were going to be an author who wrote a sophisticated author,
the gospel authors are sophisticated, they would have had to know it.
There's multiple criteria.
The last number seven, just to jump to a conclusion,
because you got to you got to read the book.
It's too many people just throw out parallel a mania or I don't buy it and don't
read his work. Right.
That's a big problem with Dennis's work,
because people are not reading it and at least being fair.
Number seven is are their ancient voices
who actually are doing what we're saying, what we're saying right now.
And Dr. McDonald found in Byzantine literature, what are called Homeric
Homeric, Homeric chintones and what these Christian,
Byzantine Christians were doing were rewriting gospel narratives in Homeric
prose phrases, prose. Yeah.
Yeah. So they were rewriting the story of the demoniac,
which he goes through documents and in here, he had to translate these.
They had never been translated yet.
No, he found he found this like this is real evidence that they were actually
doing this. They were actually doing what Dennis is saying.
So it's not like Dennis found this in 21st century and went, I like this idea.
He did Greek and Byzantine Christians were doing this.
And they rewrote the demoniac story.
They rewrote about the hemorrhage story.
There's many stories they rewrote.
And how do we know when you go to the Odyssey in the Iliad,
the literal Greek phrases from the Odyssey in the Iliad find their way into
the prose that they're writing in gospels.
So they're rewriting the gospels using Homer's Greek,
the actual lines from Homer in the in the Iliad in the Odyssey.
So for those who don't know this work,
my number one suggestion would be read it before you make any statement.
If you don't know what you're talking about, don't talk about it.
That's the honest thing.
But if you really want to have your mind blown, read this work.
This is my number one book right now.
That's why I put so much energy into it right now, because I am.
I am sold that he's on to something that we are not seeing in New Testament studies
like it should.
It's so interesting that we're
all we're all we're all very lucky that we get to look into these ideas and not
be held to a specific perspective with Dogma.
I've got two subjects.
I want to read out sounds like a failed mission of Jesus going to Spain.
Thank you, constellation Pegasus.
And that's actually an important point he makes about the ship.
You can get to Spain on the Mediterranean Sea,
but you can't get to it from this lake and over here in Israel.
Yeah, yeah.
But there is it's so obvious that they're copying and using the larger mythology.
Anyway, that's enough of me.
And by the way, I can use studies.
I'm sorry if I misread you, but I get this all the time, my friend.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I have to I have to combat it.
I have to be like, well, shit, parallel,
I mean, it take it and shove it where the sun don't shine.
You know, we need at least acknowledge some reality here and not just throw out
the parallel, I mean, you know, yeah.
What is Greek Alexander romance?
What's the Greek?
I don't even explain what it is.
I just said it.
There's story of Alexander.
It was written by pseudo.
It's basically it's a text that's ascribed to one of his followers,
Castle Ennis, and scholars think it's a pseudo version of this guy.
So he might the guy might have actually did write something that was that like
morphed over time and like eventually there's like a first century version of
this text that like morphs, it's like a rolling text, if you will.
And it's basically Alexander the Great growing up.
They say he's not the son of Philip in this story.
He's the son of the last Pharaoh, Nectanibo.
Well, so it's propaganda because they're trying to link him to Egypt
because he just built a city, Alexander in Egypt.
So there.
So this is another reason why we know this is written later,
because it's obviously propaganda for the Egyptians say,
Alexander really is one of you.
So this is a legit Egyptian kingdom.
Anyways, long story short, he conquers the whole world.
He performs he is called the son of God.
He goes to the Oracle in the desert of Siwa and Amon says, you are I am your father.
Like like like a Darth Vader moment in there.
So it's really interesting stuff.
And Alexander the Great just this, you know, this interesting cynical,
you know, young king who's conquering the world.
And it's and it was such an impactful story that it gets retold and rewritten
so much so that a form of it is found within the Quran.
Yeah, he's the horned one.
If you look at the coins of Alexander the Great that were in that were in
transition throughout the ancient Greek world, he's got horns on him.
And the horn one is the defender, the defender of the lands.
And you know what's so funny about that for those who are like on the moral
high horse from like the religious background is we know Alexandria.
We know that Alexander the Great, at least,
was definitely plural in his relationships with both men and women.
Yeah.
Think about that.
Think about it historically.
You got this guy that you're kind of using as this like noble king who rules
the world because only God could have done that with him, right?
He must have been a righteous man.
And he was definitely having sex with many men.
Oh, there's a there's a passage in the Greek romance where they compare him and
his his like boyfriend, basically, to Apollo and Hayekin.
They they compare the two like what?
Oh, then then they went to a shrine of Apollo and they saw Hayekin.
And they said, like Alexander is like Apollo and have faced this is like Hayekin.
So they're like, oh, that male on male relationship.
Oh, Alexander had that too.
So you have that that's one of the passages in the town.
I love it. Yeah.
Fantastic.
So, guys, last chance to do the hashtag 50 Deep Drinks.
Share this video out.
Hashtag 50 Deep Drinks have a chance to win an Amazon gift card.
We have 18 entries.
So you have a one in 18 chance at the moment of winning that.
So I'm going to try and speed this up a little bit just so we can be
respected for everyone's time.
But my current favorite is Colt of the Dead, a brief history of Christianity.
Nice. Nice.
And he was I found him because he was a subscribed to Bart Eman's blog
and he was a guest blogger on Bart Eman's blog.
Amazing. Look at the art on this.
I just he he's he's his partner is a graphic designer for Spotify.
And she designed it.
And I was like, it's the best looking book that I have.
And I've been going through it and he's I asked him to come on to Deep Drinks.
So Shameless Plug as well.
He's coming on to Deep Drinks and he said,
quote, I hope you liked Keela.
I think it was more Merkle Merkle, whatever.
So and I bought Worm Souls.
So Kyle Smith is coming on to talk about this book, which is going which is amazing.
It's essentially about the martyrs, early martyrs of Christianity,
how Christianity is a cult of the dead.
Was it Pat Lovinger in the chat earlier, too?
Pat would be all over this.
Oh, really? I didn't he is all over the death and like burial rituals and all
like archaeologically.
It's super interesting.
I and it all started really for me when I read that
Saint Ignatius Ignatius of Antioch, you know, feed me to the lions.
I was like, damn, that's so the martyrs of Christianity is so cool.
Like, it's just, I don't know.
So fantastic book.
Make sure you check that out.
That'll be the episodes live in six days.
So I think it's great.
So my second last book.
So this is the one book that shaped you.
So and I'll drop the link in a second, but
ten types of humans.
So this book is a bit more of a pop, popular
book, but you can see so many things in here.
One part of this book.
So it goes through like ten people's stories.
So like, it'll it'll tell you like it give you a scenario at the start.
Like, what would you do to save your child in a school shooting?
Would you go into this like school shooting and do something?
Like, would you be willing to sacrifice two kids' lives to save your child's life?
Would you be willing to sacrifice a hundred kids' lives to save your child's life?
And then you're like, and it gives you this like this.
You're like, oh, you know, you think you have a perspective, right?
And then he tells a real life story about someone.
And then by the end of it, you're like, fuck, like your whole perspective has changed.
He does that for me.
The biggest one for me was someone who was in a coma and they were like stuck in a coma.
And they worked there was like, I think in a complete vegetable state for like,
I don't know, 15 years or something, and they didn't want to turn off life support.
And they what they did is these
doctors found a way to communicate with this person that was in the
the coma like state and they would ask them things like, OK, when you think of a
tennis ball and then they would like measure the brain activity and go, OK,
you think of a tennis ball, that means yes.
And then and think of a cat, that means no, and they would measure it.
And then they got them to like spell out their name and write questions.
And the person communicated from this 15 year coma or whatever it was and said,
like, I've been in here, I've been stuck, like kill me.
Like this is I don't want to live anymore.
They were stuck completely like able to think but not being able to move their
body or anything. And at the start of the story, you think one way about,
you know, having someone alive or something.
Yeah. And at the end, you're like,
holy, like I definitely think another way.
It's amazing book.
Dude, I have a friend who was in a coma for like 50, 60, 70 days or something like
that, he said he was screaming in his head over and over and could never talk to
tell people he said, I wanted to die.
I just please kill me.
I'm done. Stop.
And he finally woke up from it.
And he said, I remember every moment.
He said, I remember everything and it was the worst.
So I like that's living hell.
I can't imagine.
Can't imagine.
Oh, wait, there's not a second.
That's the third last book.
OK, so that was my two books on to you, Derek, your book that shaped you.
Sharing screen.
Just to show you real quick here, it won't take me long, but this one right here.
No, a day, no pigs would die.
I was a young teenager and this book right here left him like a picture in my mind.
And it always it affected me because it's a little farm kid
who lives on a like a butcher type farm with pigs.
And in one of the cattle in the book, I think what I remember is someone was
choking or giving there was like a birth that had been given or one of the animals
got stuck, something in the throat or whatever.
But the kid is trying to save the life.
And long story short, this pig, he saves this pig's life through all this
tremendous, tremendous effort and doesn't want to kill.
He gets attached to one of the animals and they're like on a farm where this is
what you do, we slaughter pigs, but he doesn't want that.
His heart as a kid and just for life doesn't want to kill this animal.
And as a child, like this had a big imprint
on me in my like growing up and how I viewed the world and things like that.
Like I always thought about my dog that I had named Samson was like another human to me.
And so it wasn't there wasn't like this.
Here's animals and then there's humans.
It was like they have life, too.
And they matter, you know, that kind of thing.
Yeah, that yeah, that's that's actually a big reason why I think
my wife and I are like vegetarians is because we have a very same perspective.
What?
Well, I did an episode with a vegan activist, which I think vegans are the worst
activists for their cause, I think they turn more people away than they.
But
he we looked at the behind the scenes footage that they snuck into from
the sort houses and it's like, holy shit, like even the way that these things are
killed is just horrible, there's truly is a better way.
Not conforming.
OK, so I have my Greek class coming up in 10 minutes.
I'm just going to do my last three if you don't mind.
Yeah, it does do you last three.
Yeah, so the one book that shaped me, this is an interesting one.
And I picked it because when I was still a Christian, I found this book by Manly
P Hall called The Secret Teachings of All Ages.
Now, as far as academically accurate, I wouldn't say it's up there is like peer
review, perfect.
So there's some flaws happening.
There's some questionable ideas floating around.
It's like quasi-nostic religious type stuff.
It's free to freemason.
But does he go deep into this stuff?
And this is like this got me going.
It's got the the wheels rolling, if you will, someone who's a Christian and I'm
reading all this stuff about Osiris, about Dionysus and, you know,
all these different mystery religions stuff.
It's it shaped me.
It did Manly P Hall, Secret Teachings of All Ages.
It's it's fascinating.
It's not like it's not academically perfect, but it's really interesting stuff
because this person Manly P Hall was going deep into this stuff.
He was he was about that.
He was about that.
So that's that one.
The next one is one book I think everyone should read.
And oh, man, do I really stand by this?
Lukens Civil War.
This is from Oxford Translations.
Now, this book is also known as the Farsalia, which is the name of the battle.
It's written in the first century during the time of Nero.
But it's taking place during the time of Caesar and Pompey, the Civil War.
And why do I think everyone should read it?
Everyone watched everyone read this because it's not glorifying.
It's talking about how terrible war is.
It's realistic, the approach, how bad civil war is.
It tears families apart.
People die.
People are set.
Buildings are destroyed.
Temples are destroyed.
Like things just it's not glorifying the war.
It's it's a really eye opening tale of Julius Caesar and Pompey and the,
you know, Brutus is all the characters are in there.
Julia, who's the wife of.
So I forgot which chapter is one of the chapters in this book.
Julia, who is the niece or daughter or no,
it's like his cousin or somebody of Julius Caesar who married Pompey.
So they were Pompey and Caesar were actually
had a marriage that brought their families together.
She died when Caesar was in the war against Gaul.
She comes back in this story as a ghost and like talks to Pompey about the war.
And like, it's such a it's so so well written.
It's honestly a masterpiece, in my opinion.
It's one of my it's one of my favorite books of all time.
So I just picked it because of that.
It's it's really the approach that
Lucan takes is not glorifying war at all.
It's really like downside, like looking down on it, like war is not good.
And it's one of the first of this kind of all time.
So that's my choice for what's your most expensive, my most expensive.
Now, this book right here, when I got it, it was $225, but I got it used.
And it's the Encyclopedia of Ancient Greece.
Huge book, right?
I looked at it now.
It's not as much like 50 bucks right now.
It must be outdated now.
So I thought this was going to be the answer to that question.
Is it by Simon?
It's by Nigel.
Nigel Lucan.
Yeah, it's got all your sources in there.
But this is still worth one hundred ten dollars right now.
And it's the Oxford Oxford classical dictionary.
And this is just got everything you need.
This is like one hundred ten, one hundred ten dollar book right here.
So but yeah, that's probably my most expensive book.
Awesome. I get I'm all used to it.
I look I look for used ones.
Yeah, it had good as good as used.
Yeah.
OK.
Well, Derek, do we want to do you want to say goodbye, Neil?
Or do you want to stick around for a minute?
So I'll just stick around quietly and awesome.
Well, I do want to mention, guys, I said at the start,
go check out Nosconformance channel on YouTube.
Your most recent video is I heard it was asleep.
Thank you. I really appreciate that.
But just go check it out, guys.
It's it's a it's all heard.
It really is.
It was it takes a reason why you are to bring that out of scholars, though.
So you do good.
Thank you for your good video.
Constellation Pegasus, thank you so much for the super chat.
Did anyone cry when they read where the Red Phone Grows book?
I haven't read it.
I haven't read it either.
No, I haven't read it.
I haven't read that also.
OK. Well, I have to read it.
Sounds sad.
Well, you're describing it.
Yeah.
OK, Derek. Yeah.
So we are up to
books that you believe everyone should read and then your most expensive book.
OK.
This this one was like I was kind of I didn't know what to pick ultimately.
But there's a couple I'm going to throw up.
But I mean, if you're forcing me, right?
So both of these I would highly recommend.
And, you know, they're not like academic,
excuse me, meaning they're not like rigorous academic works.
They're they're more popular level.
But if I were to have to pick and you said, Derek, take one of those books down,
I said, damn it, I'd have to take down this one and just go.
Francesca, stop.
You have to.
You have to get your hands on it.
Like this is a picture of God
that I don't think is like most Christians, most believers, period.
Most Jews aren't really aware of or even care to to pay attention to.
And the way she writes is very
you're there with her.
You feel like you're she's stepping in the feet of the God's imprints that are
in this entrance to the temple and they're like huge feet, right?
Walking in, she's barefoot.
She she's very well written.
Like she gets barefoot and walks in there to step into the temple with the God.
And like it's it's powerful.
And this shows God has a physical body.
God has passions, pleasures, hate, love, the whole nine,
just like all the other ancient Near Eastern deities.
So the God of the Bible is a product of his time.
And that that product changes as people and the philosophers that we've heard
countless times get brought up through this interview by Neil showing some stuff,
you bringing up philosophy books, like we have developed all of that over time.
And all that's Johnny come lately stuff that we just want to take the God.
And if Matthew Munger's in the chat, the Bible is written backwards, right?
Like we constantly keep re interjecting this deity into the more contemporary time.
Just to mention the Bible on earth, like this really made me realize
archaeologically, so much of the stories about what happened,
what was going on, this war happening here and this war happening there and the
places, geography, the locations, the battles, we now know archaeologically
nothing was happening at the time that the Bible saying that they're happening.
But we know with good confidence and evidence
archaeologically that they did happen in like the seventh century.
So there were battles or things that were taking place in certain places
in the seventh century, but not 12th and 13th century.
So technically, a lot of this could you could pin that the authors of this literature
are really writing after or around the time of the events that we're seeing
described in these locations, which the Bibles just put in about five,
six hundred years earlier, four to six hundred years,
and really are like seventh century or later material.
So the Bible on earth, it really shows you that the authors are writing stuff
and then trying to push it back into a earlier time, which they're not.
That was that.
Do you want me to continue and just blast into the most?
Yeah.
OK, I do want to say to that that I haven't read the Bible on earth.
It's now on my list and the God in anatomy is on my list as well.
Oh, not on my list.
Sorry. God in anatomy is one of my favorite books ever.
And Francesco is like the dream interview.
If I could get her on the channel one day, that'll be like a dream come true.
I've got to I spent all I bought a signed copy.
I'm just I've been a fan of hers before the book came out.
I've loved her for years.
So yeah, I'm going to get my class.
My my great thanks, Neil.
Thank you so much.
See you. Thank you.
Thank you for helping me celebrate.
OK, so I'm not even I want to make you chuckle here.
I was reading a comment in your comments.
I don't know myth, vision, podcast.
I'm pretty sure that an amazing Bible biblical scholar totally debunked her book.
He didn't even know that anyone had ever suggested that God had a body.
Oh, atheists, I really read that without reading who wrote it.
The troll Christian coming into the chat literally like wrote that.
And then I realized it was Joshua Bowen,
because he's been using digital homerabi earlier.
Oh, he's. Oh my God.
I was like, dude, the guy that he's talking about that supposedly debunked.
Oh, my God, Kip Davis tore this guy up in his own.
Is he the one?
Is he the one?
Which one is he? Is he?
I don't even remember the guy's damn name.
I read it wasn't the he wasn't the one with the lovely breast, was it?
It was the it was.
Wasn't this guy has not read much of anything important in this area?
And Kip had took him to task on every Joel Edmond Anderson.
That's who it is.
But like taking him to task on rudimentary basic Hebrew stuff.
Like, all right, tell me how.
Tell me this. Oh, you're trying to flex on me, man.
Like, it's obvious the guy didn't know.
So he's like trying to like
get away and evade the criticism that's coming from Kip.
But that's like, oh, man.
That was that was fun to watch because we're in a private chat.
And then Matthew Munger says it's almost like somebody with a body
came up with the idea or ideas of God.
Yeah, I would agree.
Yeah. Yeah.
So most expensive book.
Yes.
Sharing my screen.
This is the most expensive book that I've ever had to get.
Right here, Russell Gamirkin's book,
Barosis and Genesis, Manito and Exodus, Hellenistic Histories and the date of the
Pentateuch Library of Hebrew Bible.
And right now it's brand new.
Two hundred and thirty five dollars and twenty cents used.
It's three hundred and thirty two dollars.
I don't know why.
I love how Amazon does that.
It's so funny.
Wow. So what's that about?
So he pretty much is in there's multiple books he's written after this.
What Russell Gamirkin pretty much is trying to say is that
scholars who are saying this stuff is like really, really, really old.
A lot of this isn't as old as he thinks that it is.
He thinks that Genesis is indebted to Greek, the Greek world,
with sons of God and all that kind of stuff that we see having sex with women.
This looks like the demigods of the Greek world.
He believes that he wrote a Plato's Tamaeus and the Genesis creation.
He thinks has some some overlap.
He's written a book where he thinks that some of the laws in the Hebrew Bible that
we see in the law codes are later that only you only see this in like Athenian
laws or you find it in Greek laws.
So like it's not just stuff that you might find from Hammurabi or older law codes,
but some of the stuff he thinks is much newer.
So he's trying to turn over the whole idea that a lot of these law codes are just
really, really old.
And at the end of the day, he thinks that the Hebrew Bible was translated or was
probably compiled and created, give or take a decade or two before the
Septuagint translation of it.
So he thinks that the compilation of the material was was somewhere in the 300s
B.C.
And he's not saying that they didn't grab on to older material,
but he thinks that what we call the Bible and it's putting together and all is
sometime not too far before the LXX translation of the Hebrew Bible was written.
So he has like a radical, what we'd call a minimalist kind of approach to the
Hebrew Bible, even though when I try to pin him down and say, hey, hold on.
So you're saying like, you think all of this material was just written late?
No, no, no, he would say, you're going to find old poetry.
You're going to find stuff that goes back to the eighth century within the
compilation of the text, but he thinks that the compilation of the Bible we have
and a lot of the material that we find within the Bible was much later and not
as old as some of the scholars might think that gives you kind of a nutshell.
This one's focusing on Genesis and Exodus.
His next one goes into Plato and how he sees that seems to be Plato's influence
on the Bible. The last one is Plato's Tamaeus, the creation account that is found
in Plato and Genesis.
He thinks there's definite evidence in his mind, some borrowing going on here.
Yeah. OK, interesting.
Well, to finish off, finish off the book that I believe everyone should read.
This is I apologize, everyone.
This is a very heavy book.
And that's essentially why I asked one to why I think everyone should read it.
It's called The Rape of Nen King.
And it's about what the Japanese soldiers did to the Chinese during
the occupation of Nen King.
Wow.
In a picture, I can't show.
I can't I can't show the imagery.
Well, I probably can, but I just don't want to show any
anything too rough.
Essentially, the author of this committed
suicide because of the stuff that they uncovered, it was so horrific for them.
The
they the there's been a huge
tactic to kind of whitewash for a lot of what happened there.
But essentially, like they would
they they they would like have beheading competitions in Nen King to civilians.
They would like take skulls home.
They would they would cut open pregnant ladies'
bellies after raping them and show them the fetuses as like a joke.
There was a Nazi living in Nen King who would write to Hitler and say,
these fucking people are insane, right?
Like like like and he would actually stop rapes happening in the street.
It was brutal.
And there's lots of images of people who are beheaded and just piles of heads and
shit, but it's it's history.
It's recent history and it's forgotten and it's it's really it really needs to be
kind of spoken about.
Literally, the Nazi was called the Nazi
savior of Nen King because he was he was running around trying to be the moral one.
The Nazi was the moral one in the story.
So that's the big thing that they push in this is because the Japanese at the time
believed that the emperor was essentially God.
So if God's commanding you to do something,
you're not going to not do it.
So that's what I thought that they could do what they did.
So sorry to end on such a brutal book, but I do have a fun one for my most
expensive book, but definitely check out the rape of Nen King.
I just want to say, like, I think if we two things, either we stop thinking God's
exist, this might help us or think everyone is a God, then we're good.
OK, so one or the other needs to happen.
OK, I'm going to switch.
I'm going to get my book down because it's big.
Hang on a sec.
Uh oh.
And I'm going to I'm going to swap cameras.
OK, I don't know if you can hear you're muted.
OK, can you hear me?
I can hear you.
OK, this is a one to one replica of the red.
Book by my parents bought for me.
Wow.
I think it's like three hundred and fifty dollars.
But it's got let me find it.
So it's got all these original artwork in the like his writing in here.
Right.
So this book, am I going through all right?
Oh, yeah, it's coming through.
So this book had like so essentially he tried to go into a subconscious mind
to explain it, so he was a psychologist that was kind of fighting with Freud,
I think, one of the one of them.
And he went into a subconscious and this book was like stuck in his.
Collection, not to be seen by the world for like 50 years.
I'm just hoping.
So he drew these images in what can only be described in a state of like psychosis.
And that it's that he was a mastermind at psychology.
Right.
So he's anyway, so it's got all this.
And then the second half of the book is actually the English that you can actually
read, which if I was ever going to read this book, I would read a pocket version of
something that is a famous book and life size.
Yeah.
Jeez.
Hey, just so that we're on the same page, like the books that I've recommended are
over here and there's some over here, but just to save a headache.
And I guess Josh must have disappeared during his plug for his books and what I said about them.
Yeah, we kind of we all like talk about your book, Josh, and you weren't here.
Yeah, Josh, we we mentioned how amazing, like when you need toilet paper.
Yeah, it's actually what I found fascinating about your book, because I'm
actually going to be doing a series.
I was telling them as well.
So he must have missed it.
He must have he must have missed that I plug both of these.
What I found so interesting is how he took all these scholars, like a plethora
of academics, cherry-picked work that they've done that is related to the point
he's trying to make and then wrote in such a way that dummies like me can like grab
and go, oh, wow.
So he like went and combed the academic arena and came back and then made this
academic work based on academic work that's out there and put it in a popular style.
That's it's really just it's really fringe positions, though.
They're not really like you won't see any of that in like a textbook.
It's all kind of like you have to go digging to find anything that he's saying.
Well, you might find that academic.
Like if we get across the quote, you might find like like I talked about
Ronald Hendel, right, which he points out Ronald Hendel was a joke, everyone.
But like you might find and this is more of a popular level book as well.
But if you go and read Ronald Hendel's work on Genesis, you'll be like, oh, wow.
But you got to like really know what you're looking for and read a lot just to find it.
Whereas Josh did all the reading for us, found what these scholars are trying to say,
got their quotes or or the gist of their arguments, sources that, puts it in here,
boom, and then makes it popular so that people can actually get it.
And that's kind of what we're trying to do with myth vision, right?
He's doing it with the book.
We're trying to do this and chew it and give it to a broader audience and all of that.
But yeah, this is definitely the book that I put this under was my deconversion books.
Yeah, that's what I would.
I would back that as well.
I chose God is not great because that's where that was the book that helped me the most.
But these books are perfect for anyone who even if you're not
deconstructing, they're just they're a fantastic book.
You're interested in the Bible talking about what myth vision does.
I want to shout out your channel before we announce the winner of the giveaway.
So this is a broadcast.
Go check out what you're doing.
I'm editing some shorts for you at the moment.
I'm going to try and short right there at the top on the far line.
Oh, yeah, that's a weird weird dude.
Weird dude.
I don't think I don't think you can instantiate the necessary
preconditions for ultimate ultimacy.
It's definitely you can do that.
But yeah, go subscribe to myth vision.
I mean, everyone here is probably already subscribed to the vision.
I mean, you're you're the man.
And if you want to support us on Patreon, you can check out the Patreon here.
We're doing some cool stuff over there and I'm trying to get David out.
Help David out if you can.
If you're coming from myth vision and you're able, help him out.
Help grow what he's doing because David is he wants to do this full time.
He's got some he's got different ideas than we do.
Right. We need we're the body of atheism.
The arm does one thing and the legs do another.
You know what I'm saying, though, like you're working your butt on David
and you're working a full time job.
We're trying to get to that point, right, where you're.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Like, I'm trying I'm trying really hard to turn this into more than just like
a second full time job that is just a hobby
because it'd be great to be able to just focus more and getting getting
continuing to get more amazing guests, but being able to focus more on producing
content at the moment, I'm stuck for I need I need to edit more, but I don't have
time like I literally it's been it's been crazy.
So I want that time.
So if you can help support this channel, awesome.
You can also become a member on the on YouTube and then you get like stickers
and stuff, your live chat and I can read out your questions more.
Your name stands out regularly, yeah, your name stands out.
So I'll see your comments more likely and something a couple of bucks a month.
So let's do the giveaway, guys.
So we have 18 entries.
So you have an 18 chance to win a 50 dollar Amazon gift card to use to buy
any of the amazing books that we have talked about today.
My thanks to you for subscribing and sharing and being awesome
viewers of the channel and part of the community.
So let's let's do this.
Ready, let's check out down.
Oh, I've clicked the button, but
dude, someone just became a member of your channel.
No way, you won your own game.
Hang on, I've got to re-outdraw that again.
Oh, no, you did not.
And there we go.
Oh, thank you, Miss Mission podcast.
Yes, thank you so much, Derek.
That I really appreciate that, man.
New member of the channel, thank you.
You're the first member.
I'm the first member, man.
I'll create some community posts that might be erotic in nature just for you.
What someone else joins.
So don't join because you might ruin it.
OK, it'll take no time or yeah.
Re-draw. Oh, my gosh.
Here we go.
Hey, Pragmatic Crystal.
Awesome. So good work.
Thank you for sharing and thank you for commenting.
And get in touch with me on Twitter, email David at deepdrinks.com.
And I will send you your gift card.
And I'm still in the house.
Are you still in the house?
So.
Pragmatic, Pragmatic is older.
It's you the whole time, man.
You don't have 50 bucks to give anybody.
I'm sure that I'm sure that that that she if they're not in the car,
if they're not in the they'll get in touch, I'm sure they'll see it.
But thank you so much.
They said, David, keep the 50 bucks and put it back into your channel.
I love your work.
Oh, wow.
Well, thank you so much.
I really appreciate that.
OK, well, I might have to.
I'll just I'll put that into the I'll put that into the another giveaway that we can
give for someone we are going to be doing a a a a thank you live stream,
a 12 hour, maybe not 12, maybe a 10 hour or eight hour live stream coming up to say
thank you for getting to a thousand subscribers.
So maybe I'll just move that over to there.
So thank you so much.
You're amazing member of the community, Pragmatic Crystal.
I really appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you guys so much.
And Derek, with that said, is there anything you want to say before
we finish up this episode?
Don't give up, bro.
Don't stop.
I'm not going to stop.
Keep going. Keep hustling.
Don't stop when you feel like stopping.
That's when you need to not keep going.
Yeah, I'm not going to stop.
I'm I love I love this community.
I love I love everything about it and I love what we're doing here.
So I'm looking forward to saying about not stopping.
I'm really looking forward to a panel coming up.
So we're going to end on that trailer.
So thank you guys for coming out.
Make sure you subscribe, like, notify all that good stuff.
Share it with your mom's Bible group.
Let's do this.
Bye.
