Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcast. My guest today is Dr. Michael Kona, who is the
Professor of New Testament Studies at Houston Christian University. He's a strong Christian
and Apologist who's debated the likes of Bart Ehrman on the Resurrection many times,
including a seven-hour debate. Can you believe we have Michael Kona on Deep Drinks Podcast?
I'm very honored. Welcome, Michael Kona. Hey, thanks, David. Nice to be with you.
So I've always respected you, Mike. I really appreciate the way that you engage with the
religious texts. We hold different conclusions, obviously, but I just really always appreciated
you. And you have a new book that's recently come out. Can you tell us a little bit about that?
Yes, the title is Jesus Contradicted. I did not choose the title. I wanted a different one. I
wanted, let's see, reading the Gospels again for the first time. And what it does is it seeks to
address why there are differences in the Gospels. And it comes at it from the viewpoint of saying
that ancient biographers were taught in their secondary and tertiary education
to vary text through various means of paraphrasing. And we find this. You have classical scholars say
that this is what you find in all of ancient literature through the biographers and historians,
that they use certain compositional devices that are universal amongst historians and biographers.
And so if this is the case, why don't we look at the differences in the Gospels through this lens?
Because ancient biographies and histories have the same sort of differences that you find in the
Gospels. And so if we view the differences in the Gospels through the lens of first-century
biography with these compositional devices in mind, we find that most of the differences can be
accounted for this way. And so this is quite interesting. So rather than harmonizing the
accounts, attempting to harmonize them, which I think sometimes are just ridiculous attempts,
I think it's better just to look at them through the lens of first-century biography.
And when you do this, a whole lot more comes into focus.
Yeah, I actually went to pick up a copy of your book because it was out like a few days ago, right?
Yes, but it's just not available. I went on to the local Christian bookstore called Kuroong.
I don't know if that's international or if it's just an Australian thing. But yeah,
they didn't have it. And then they won't have it for another like three weeks. And I was bummed out
because I wanted to hold it up. It's definitely something that, first of all, I like the title
and I like what the book looks like. But I haven't had a chance to read it, unfortunately. But yeah,
I'm sure it's amazing. The link for that is in the description. So if anyone wants to
check out that book, it's in the description. It's also in the Deep Drinks recommended reading,
so you can check that out. So I've got to ask you, do you want to call you Dr. Mike or Mike is fine?
It doesn't matter. Mike is fine. I'm pretty informal.
Well, so you mentioned you didn't have a drink necessarily in mind. You've been very busy. And
you said that you do like a pina colada. I do. And you do like orange juice. And you said you
might be able to drink orange juice. Did you happen to bring anything? Or did you happen to bring
anything? You know, David, you told me about this. And I don't really, I mean, sometimes I'll keep
some wine in the house. I don't drink that much. I mean, I'll have a couple margaritas a year,
maybe a pina colada, a bottle of eggnog around Christmas, and maybe two bottles of wine during
the course of the year. So no, I didn't have anything. I thought about squeezing a few oranges.
And to be honest with you, I just, I didn't get around to it. I'm sorry. I got myself a virgin
pina colada, because I got to work after this. And I'm sick of it in the middle of the day.
It happens a lot because of this show. But it's funny, actually, because you would expect that
the people that come on, you'd expect their drinks would kind of match up. But it's this weird
thing that's happened with deep drinks, where a lot of the atheists are choosing, like, water,
iced tea. You know, Matt Delahunty, iced tea, genetically modified sceptic, water. And then
I'll get like Michael Jones on. And he's like, straight Scotch, we're just drinking Scotch.
And I'm like, and all the Bible scholars seem to hard liquor. And I'm like, this is,
this is a bizarre world that I was talking to a Satanist. And the Satanist said,
I'd like to come on, but I'm sober. I would like to bring, bring you pop pumpkin scones
that he makes himself and tea. And I'm like, in what world is the Christian apologists
coming on with Scotch? And the Satanist is coming on with pumpkin scones and tea.
Well, I remember Jesus not only drank wine, he made it.
Oh, that's true. That's true. And it's a whole book about it. It's called Hebrews, right?
Yeah, some of my friends too, they don't think drinking alcohol is okay. And they'll say, well,
Jesus made grape juice at that thing. Well, I mean, you think about that story.
The guy in charge of that wedding banquet said, after Jesus created the wine, he said,
you know, most people, they give the best wine first, and then they bring the cheap stuff in
later after everybody's drunk, but you have brought the best in last. Well, really, if they
had some wine, and then now all of a sudden you get grape juice, would you think that that's the
best? No. So it was wine, the kind that you could actually get drunk off. Now, of course,
they say don't get drunk with wine. So that's not saying get drunk. And I've never been drunk in my
life. And I don't want to get drunk. But no, I think the wine Jesus created was alcoholic.
Yeah, that makes, because like, to be honest, it really bothers me a little bit how
how fit and healthy you look. Honest to God, like for your age, what, you're 62?
Is that your 63 in two months or next month? I showed my photo of you to my roommate. And
he's always in his 40s. Well, it bothers me. It bothers me. Like, what are you doing? What are
you eating? Do you exercise regularly? Like, you just look healthy? I do. I exercise between four
and six days a week. I don't do it heavy anymore. Or, you know, I don't go too hard.
I guess I'm just too busy for one plus. As I've gotten older, that energy just does not come back
as quickly as it used to. So I'm not exercising like I did when I was in my 40s and 50s. But
yeah, I tried to stay in shape and eat fairly well. So tell your friend I said, thank you.
Oh, I will. So before we jump into the reliability of the New Testament, I wanted to get a bit of a
background on who you are, like your story. I don't think I've actually heard it before. And
but did you grow up a Christian? Did you have a, did you have a distinct save moment, a
distinct I am a Christian moment of born again experience? Did you have that? Or what is your
journey like? Yes and yes. So, you know, I guess I'm kind of weird in the sense that when I was
seven, eight years old around then, I can remember walking to church with my mom. My mom had left
my dad when I was five. He was not a good guy. And when we were walking to church, I remember
asking her how, you know, how do I get to heaven? And she really didn't know. And she said, well,
you know, if you do more good than bad, you'll get to heaven. And I said, well, what if I do more
bad than good? Because I had a younger sister, I hit her, I pulled her hair, made her cry,
things like that. She said, well, then you'd go to hell to be with the devil forever. And I said,
well, you know, I thought to myself, well, where am I on that balance? You know, and then my mom
remarried and we moved out of the city to Baltimore County. And we started going to church. I had a
good stepdad and started going to a church. And one Sunday, they brought in a Christian magician
and combined the kids Sunday school classes together. And he started to relate the gospel
to magic, like his magic tricks, like he would do these tricks. And I don't remember which ones
he did or how he did this. But, you know, for the first time, I heard the message, well, it's not
what you do that gets you into heaven. It's what Christ did for you, that he took the penalty
of sin upon himself on the cross. And by buying into Jesus program, by becoming his follower,
you can have eternal life. He'll watch out for you. And he gave an invitation. It was a
Presbyterian church. And it was, you know, you don't have that in the Presbyterian church,
but he gave an invitation. And I remember myself and two girls went forward and I thought,
this is exactly what I wanted. And I wondered why everybody else wasn't, but it's like, I didn't
care. It's like, this is what I want. Now, of course, my epistemological processes weren't
fully developed in that time. And I freely acknowledged that I was literally tricked into
the kingdom. But I didn't grow too much spiritually as a teen. I ended up going to a Christian
university. I was a music major. And while there, I just heard a lot of sermons and I got
really excited about the Lord. And I was spending probably an hour a day in Bible study and an
hour a day in prayer and undergrad. And then I decided I wanted to go for a master's degree
and learn how to read the New Testament in Greek. And I was loving it. I was spending hours and
hours and hours studying the New Testament in Greek. And then one day I just asked myself,
how do I know this stuff is really true? I believe I've got a relationship with God,
but I wondered if Muslims and other countries had the same kind of experiences or Hindus or
Buddhists, et cetera. And I thought, how do I know what I believe is true? And someone introduced me
to Gary Habermas, who teaches philosophy and apologetics. And I talked with him and he shared
with me the evidence for the resurrection of Jesus. And it's like, oh, that's cool. Yeah,
I got reassured of my faith. But then later on, I began doubting again. And I realized that, hey,
you know, I believe because he reassured me and what I wanted, what I believed and wanted
to be reassured with. But, you know, if Christianity isn't true, I'm in deep kimchi when
I die if another religion is true. And unless Buddhism or Hinduism is true with reincarnation,
then I'll get many chances to get this thing right. But, you know, this just became a serious
journey for me. So just to kind of wind it up, I ended up doing my doctoral research in the
the question of did Jesus rise from the dead? And to be honest, doing a 20 page
double spaced paper with a few footnotes during grad school was a nightmare for me.
But this just became a passion. And so my doctoral dissertation ended up being well over 500 pages,
single spaced in more than 2000 footnotes. And finally, my doctoral supervisor had to say,
Mike, it's time to shut this thing down. I just wanted to cross every T and dot every I and
check out all the major alternative explanations and to give this thing as honest a look as I
could possibly could. Was I entirely neutral? No. Did I do the best job I could do to be a neutral
and be an objective? Yes. Does everybody believe me on that? No. Do I care? No. I did this
investigation for me and not for anyone else. I did it for me. It's kind of selfish, but that's
what I did because when I die, if God exists, I'm going to be there before an audience of one.
And so that's why I live and what I do what I do now because when I meet that audience of one,
you know, I want to know I want to know that I looked at this thing honestly and is objectively
and as authentically as I could. Wow. So were you part of a or are you part of a
denomination that has like spiritual experiences or like do you speak in tongues that that kind of
stuff? I don't speak in tongues. I'm open to it. I've actually asked God to give me the gift of
tongues. I don't have it. I do believe that some people do get that. I have a friend who,
I mean, I know this guy personally. I've known him for years. I know his character. So I know
when he tells me this, he's being honest and he said one time and he took me to Turkey with him
once and we met with the underground church over there. I went in the year 2000. I believe it was.
And he went before that a couple of times and he told me about one occasion when he was over there
with the underground church and he was praying. The church members all got together. They broke
off and groups of three to pray. And so he was praying with two other Turks. And when it came
time, he prayed, he thought he was praying in English. And when he looked up, when the prayer
was over, he looked up and the two Turks were looking at him with just astonishment. And he
said, why are you looking at me this way? And they said, you just prayed in perfect Turkish.
He says, no, I did not know Turkish. And he said, well, you just prayed in perfect Turkish. To me,
that sounds like the gift of tongues to me. I've experienced seeing people who have used
the gift of prophecy and have just said something about individuals that it's like, I mean,
they could not have possibly known this and yet it happened. So I do believe the gifts of the Spirit
still exist today. Are they abused? Do people like,
you know, are all people who speak in tongues really do they have the gift of tongues?
I don't believe that for a moment, but I do believe that some people have it. And I do believe a lot
of this happens in third world countries and miracles so that the gospel can go out there
and people can see that they don't have opportunities to understand evidence. And I've
heard all kinds of stories from credible sources of miracles and stuff in other countries.
And it leads to like a whole village coming to know Christ. So yeah.
Yeah, wow. I was so a bit of my story, like you don't know much about me, but a bit of my
story is is I was brought up with Christian and went to church and things. And when I moved up
to be with my dad in Queensland here, I've moved up like so I left my mom and moved up with my dad.
I kind of drift away from God for a little bit, but then I got invited to a youth group
and I went there. And at this youth group, there was just like, you know, as a typical youth group
really bad band, you know, very passionate preacher. They did praise and worship at the
end. I was sitting there and I remember sitting there going, well, this is like I believed in God,
but I was like, well, this is intense. And then everyone was praying at the front and
worshiping. And I was just sitting there being like depressed self, like as a teenager. And
someone called me and said, do you want to go up the front? And I said, no. And I said, no,
I don't want to go up the front. And I remember praying to God and saying, God, I'll get right
with you when I'm like 40. Like I've got a life to live, you know, like, you know, I just I don't
have time for this. And then I almost went up when I got up to leave. But there was a there was a
like a girl out the front, I could see looking through the the glass of the of the youth hall.
There was a kid's a kid's ministry event happening in the following building. And so
they had finished and she had come over and are looking through the building at this worship.
And I knew her from school because I used to tease her for being a Christian or at least
try and challenge her beliefs. Even though I was a Christian, it was weird. And she left schools,
partly because of that. She's a great friend of mine now. Her husband was in my wedding party.
Sorry, I'm getting distracted. I'm there. I'm in the, I'm in the, in the youth hall and I'm
deciding I can't leave because then she's going to want to like talk, why are you here? What are
you doing here? All this stuff. So what I'll do is I'll just bury my head in my hands, pretend I'm
not here. And the next thing I know, I felt all these hands on my back and these people were
prophesying over me, telling the things that I didn't think were possible to know. And then
next thing I know, I was looking down in the puddle of tears and I just felt, I felt drunk
for two days afterwards. I felt like a different person. People at school started calling me Captain
Christian because it was such a huge shift in my personality. I went from the depressed guy on my
headphones all the time to like telling people about Jesus and running little Bible studies at
school and all and being really on fire for God. There's a youth group that came up late, a youth
camp that came on about two or three weeks later where I literally saw my friends, like
some of my friends like after getting baptized just caught in a, in, in like what looks like a
vision. Their eyes were just closed and they were just shaking and just like laugh, people were
laughing in the spirit. We had to pick up one of my friends and carry him to the, to the,
to the hall and, you know, like after hours of just being out there in this next to this pool.
So very, a lot of very spiritual things. And I remember looking at these events and saying to
myself, I can never deny this. I can never deny what I'm, what I'm seeing here, what I'm experiencing
here. I can never deny this. But now I don't believe in God. So, so essentially how does that
happen? Well, I don't actually deny the experiences. I think the experiences did happen. I don't know
what the experiences were, but I don't hold to the same conclusions of those experiences for
myself. So that's a bit of, bit of my journey. Like I look at that and go, I don't know what those
experiences were, the same way you might look at like a vision of Mary from a Catholic and go,
I don't know what happened there. They say it happened. I believe that they had this experience,
but I'm not sure I'm convinced it was actually Mary. Do you, do you hold to that perspective?
Yeah, yeah, I do think they had something. And I think maybe not in all of them, but there are
some of them that are very difficult to explain in natural terms. So yeah, I don't know that we
could say it's Mary. And in fact, in one case, the Medjugorje teens or youth, I should say,
that had it, my friend Ken Samples later on went to Croatia and interviewed one of the Seers
and from the Medjugorje group of youth. And of course, this youth was an adult and at the time,
and was still having visions of Mary. And in fact, while he was there, this person had a vision of
Mary, went into a trance, had a vision of Mary. And so Ken asked him afterward, he said, has Mary
ever spoken to you and told you anything? Yes. What did she tell you to read this book? Well,
what's, what's the book? So he wrote it down. And then he later on looked at it and it was a book
promoting the occult Satanism. And it's like, Whoa, well, yeah, maybe he saw something, but maybe
this wasn't Mary. So I just have to, I have to mention, I found this book at a bookstore the
other day. It's called The Book of Truths. Have you heard of this? I have not. Okay,
teachings of Jesus and other celestial spirits revealing the divine love and new birth of the
soul. Okay, so this is this is who 1917 this was written. This is the partial list of authors.
Jesus, Job, John the Apostle, Francis Bacon, Barnabas, Julius Caesar, there's so many Barnabas,
I think I mentioned that bright star. And what's even James the Apostle, James the less,
it's just got a list of like all these people and this guy wrote all these down,
right, these prophecies. But what's the best thing about this book is
Jesus gives a recommendation, a review, he says, this is a quote from Jesus at the back saying,
I implore men to meditate on these great truths and in meditating, believe and when believing,
pray to the Father for the inflowing into their souls of this divine love. And in doing so,
they will experience belief, faith and possession and ownership of that which can never be taken
from them. No, not in all eternity. So Jesus, so Jesus apparently is one of the authors of this
and then recommends it. This is great marketing. I didn't know you could do that. I didn't know
you could say, oh, the spirit realm told me that Jesus is totally cool with this book. That's great.
So I bought it like what is this? It was $20. And I was like, what is this book? And I can't wait to
do a deep dive into it. But so there's some fun ideas out there, aren't there? So
reliability of the New Testament. So there's a lot of different perspectives on this. And
obviously you have a perspective. My first question is, do you think that there are contradictions or
things that can't be reconciled in the New Testament?
Yeah, probably on the surface, at least. So I look at, for example, Matthew.
He has Jesus fleeing to Egypt shortly after being born. And then they end up coming back.
It's probably because he's born. And then he comes back after
Herod Arculouse has died, one of Herod's sons. And then they settle in Nazareth.
But when you read Luke's account, you have Jesus born. And then after the days of purification,
which I think was 40 days, then we find Mary and Joseph in the temple dedicating Jesus.
And then it says after that they went and settled in Nazareth. So the chronology doesn't exactly
work out that way. What happened? I don't know what happened. If I had to bet some money on it,
I would say that Luke probably omitted the flight to Egypt. He didn't find it an important thing to
write for Theophilus. And he just omitted it. We don't expect all ancient biographers to report
everything in a person's life. And that would be it. He just does a clean narrative and just has
one thing linked to the next, which is something that Lucian of Samosata and Quintillion said
was a good thing to do when you're writing a narrative, had these things linked. So
yeah, that would be my guess. That'd be one thing. On another thing, you've got
Matthew reports that Judas hanged himself in acts that says that he fell headlong in his
guts first open. I don't try to harmonize that by saying, well, he hung himself and then the
rope broke and fell down. I mean, that's possible, but it said he fell headlong. So if you're being
hung and the rope breaks, your butt's going to hit first, not your head. Oh, well, he hit his butt,
and then he fell forward and fell headlong. He bounced. Yeah. So Judas was
Brutalicious and he just bounced off his big bum. And that's how it like you could come up with
anything. No, I think it's possible that I think it's very possible that in acts, Luke omits the
hanging. And he talks about something that happened afterward, that he fell headlong.
Maybe when they were burying them, they just pushed them over into this
Gehenna, which was the place where garbage was thrown and all in there tumbled in there
and his guts burst open. We don't know. All we can do is speculate, but that's a possible
contradiction. I take the same approach with the Gospels as I did when I was studying Plutarch's
lives. There are a number of details that appear contradictory and difficult to resolve,
but I know enough through life experiences that there are some things that don't seem
possible like they can be harmonized. But in the end, you find that people were just telling
certain portions of a story and leaving out other things. And had they been a little more
descriptive or inclusive of other details, then these things would work together. So I'm not ready
to say with a lot of the discrepancies amongst Plutarch's lives. And he wrote 48 biographies
that have survived. He wrote more than 60, but 48 have survived. And of those nine of them,
I found, report characters who pretty much lived at the same time. Many of them knew one another
and several of them participated in the same event. So when he tells the same story,
and he tells them differently, Plutarch knows these details. So why are there discrepancies?
Well, there are reasons for these as I discuss in my new book. But some of them may be difficult to
reconcile, but I think had we been there, we might be able to see the difference, how they work
together. So I'm not willing to say that they got it wrong in many cases. I don't know of anything
in the Gospels that I would say they definitely got it wrong. But there are certainly, I would say,
you know, a handful or so of examples in the Gospels that are at least reasonable candidates
for errors. Okay, well, I actually didn't expect you to say that. I thought you would go down the,
because I swear I've heard you in conversation with Bart Ehrman say that you'll phrase it a little
bit differently. You'll say that there may be differences, but not contradictions. Have you
changed your mind on that or am I just remembering differently? I don't know. I mean, we all kind
of change a little in what we think over time as we have more time to research and to allow some of
these things to marinate in our minds. I've given more thought to differences in the Gospels than
probably most people have. I would say so. So yeah, so I probably have said that at times in the past.
And again, I want to be clear where I'm at right now is I'm not necessarily saying that these things
are errors or definite contradictions. They are definitely surface contradictions in some sense.
But whether they are actual contradictions, had we got a fuller report of things, well,
we don't know. We don't know. What do you think about the idea? This is kind of
tangential to what we're talking about. But the idea that the myth of Jesus seems to kind of develop
a bit more over time. When I said the myth, but the story of Jesus. So for example, Mark, which
I'm sure you agree is our earliest Gospel, you don't have the Virgin birth. The original Mark,
you don't have the disciples encounter with the resurrected Jesus. And that's still written 30
years, 30 or 40 years after Jesus had died. So you've got a good chunk of time for these
myths or these ideas. So I won't use myths, but these ideas to develop. And then you can clearly
see it. And then Matthew is a little bit more stuff going on. And by the time he gets to John,
it's like it's making things like, and then they stab Jesus and blood gushed out. He was
definitely dead. Like they're making, like there were things in there that are like, that seem to
be written in to solidify the stories more. Or the myth is kind of, again, the story is kind of
growing. What do you make of that? To be honest with you, I don't see the story growing. And I'll
tell you why. When it comes to the resurrection narratives, before any of the Gospels are written,
you've got Paul. And Paul talks about the resurrection of Jesus and his appearance to others
in individual and in group settings. Paul is definitely talking about a physical bodily
resurrection. I can unpack that if you like at some point. But so what he says about the resurrection
is completely in concert with what the Gospels report. Yeah, Mark doesn't have any of the appearances,
but Mark predicts them. In chapter 14, 20, verse 28, you have Jesus saying that he's predicting
his resurrection. And he says, after I rise, I will go ahead of you to Galilee, and there you
will see me. And so when the angel is talking to the women at the empty tomb, he says, go tell his
disciples in Peter that he is going ahead of them to Galilee. There they will see him just as he
told them. So Mark knows of this appearance. And the Gospel of Mark does end abruptly at chapter
16, verse eight. And so you have scholars saying, well, did Mark intend to end it there? Or was that
not his intent? And then those who say it was not his intent, which is a significant minority
of very good scholars. And they'll say, well, either Mark was unable to complete it for some
reason, maybe he died, maybe he got sick and somehow was unable to, or the ending was lost.
I don't know which one, but I do think that Mark, I am of the opinion that Mark did not
intend to end his Gospel there, because I think it'd be really weird for him to have done so.
Now, those who think that Mark intended to end his Gospel there, if you've got 10 theologians
or scholars who comment on it, you've got 15 different reasons that they give why he may have
that. So there is no majority opinion on why Mark would have ended in such an awkward manner there.
And in terms of the spear and blood and water came out, John may have included that for theological
significance, but you have Quintilian who wrote in the first century and he says,
the executioner was allowed to pierce the crucified. So Percusus in the Latin, he was allowed to
pierce the crucified. So especially if they were trying to expedite death and it was the Passover.
And so I think the story about the Pilate ensuring that they would die the same day is entirely,
entirely plausible, especially because it was a holiday, the major holiday. And even Josephus,
later on in his Jewish War, Book 4, Section 317, he's talking about when the Idomian Jews came
into Jerusalem around the years 67 or 68 and they killed a bunch of the Jews and they would not
allow them to be buried. And Josephus said the Jews in Jerusalem weren't sensed at this because it
had been the custom of the Jews to remove the crucified and give them a proper burial prior
to sunset. So you would expedite to death by breaking the legs. If they saw that Jesus was
already dead as the Gospels report and piercing him in the side would have been something that
would make perfect sense. People said, well, what in what are from? And some have said,
like from the American Medical Association, it's probably the pericardium, the sac around the heart
that would have some fluid in it. But I've talked to an emergency room physician and he said, no,
you'd only get maybe a tablespoon of fluid out if that happened. He thinks that probably in the
beating that Jesus would have taken from the Jewish and Roman soldiers that he would have
probably been punched hard in the chest. It would have caused his lungs to swell. And that's where
the water came from. He said that makes more sense to him. So I'm not a physician. I can't comment on
that. But I don't think just because it has some theological significance that in that sense you
would discount it as a historical detail. Oh, one more thing. When we come to Mark and we read it
through the lens of ancient biography, the picture of Jesus we have of Jesus being God's uniquely
divine son deity is every bit as strong as we have in in John's Gospel. And John's Christology
is every bit as strong as we find in Paul who wrote before any of the Gospels. So you've
got Paul at one end, John at the other as bookends. You've got Matthew, Mark, and Luke in between,
Mark being the earliest Gospel. And I think his Christology is every bit as high as what you find
in Matthew and in John. Well, you know, Mike, I've got a certificate for Christian Ministries and
I don't remember. Sorry, I don't know where that came from. But I haven't heard that
that Mark. I thought Mark, well, Bartome, I think he says this all the time. I'm even probably in
the debates that in Mark, no one really knows who Jesus, like that Jesus is the Son of God, right?
Is that or are you saying that? That's what Bart used to say. More recently, he now says that Mark
presents Jesus as God's uniquely divine son. He just doesn't think that Jesus made such claims.
I'll give you something real quick here. So Plutarch in his life of Alexander, it's the most
quoted passage in all of Plutarch's lives. And he says, look, I'm not writing a history. I'm writing
biography or lives was the word for it back then. Biography as a word did not come until later on.
I'm writing lives, not a history. So don't fault me if I'm not mentioning a bunch of the big
bombastic things that my main character did during their lifetime. What I'm doing is I am
reporting what he said and did that illuminates his character, who he really was.
So and you find other authors saying this as well. So Plutarch's not the one that came up with this,
but he gives us a really good angle and what he's doing with biography. Now, when you read Mark
in that sense, think about this. It opens up by saying, as Isaiah the prophet said, the voice of
one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make straight his paths. Well, now you
think it's Jesus going to make prepare the way for God, but instead it's John the Baptist preparing
the way for Jesus. So who is that saying? Who is Mark saying that Jesus is? He's saying he's the
Lord, he's God. Mark chapter two, Jesus heals a paralytic and forgives his sins. And the Jewish
leadership say, well, that's blasphemy because why only God can forgive sins? Yep. Then Jesus
calms the storm, calms the wind and the waves, which the Old Testament says only God does.
Chapter four, Jesus is, I think that's where he walks on water, which the Old Testament says
that's what God does. Chapter five, Jesus is casting out demons and the Jewish leaders say,
well, that's Satan casting out Satan. And this is where Jesus say, and a house divided itself
cannot stand. If it's Satan casting out Satan, a house divided against itself cannot stand.
He says, look, if you want to rob a strong man, you got to first bind the strong man,
and then you can go into his house and plunder his house of goods. And by that he's saying,
he has bound the strong man who is Satan and now is plundering Satan's kingdom of souls.
Well, what human can bind Satan? Chapter six, he raises the dead, something the Old Testament
says only God does. So all throughout the Gospel of Mark, Jesus says and does those things that
God does. So when you read the Gospels, through the lens of ancient biography, you find that this
is exactly what they're saying. Mark's Christology is no less than what you find in John or in Paul's
writings. He's just illuminating who Jesus is through his words and his deeds. And this
becomes crystal clear when you read the Gospels as ancient biographies.
Well, this is, this is, I'm glad you mentioned this, because this is something that my initial
reaction is I disagree with. And so I'm looking forward to, I'm going to, it's been a long
time since I read the New Testament, I'm going to go back in and I'm going to read it, and I'm going
to try and see, see for myself, because then I'll re-listen to the scriptures you just brought
up and I'll have a look at that. In this book, this new book, I go all through a lot of this stuff.
Oh, is that this book? Yeah. So that's why I say, and a lot of my students have told me this
after they get through with when I teach on the Gospels as ancient biography and understanding
why their differences. And they say, Mike, it's like reading the Gospels for the first time again.
So it's like they'll never read the Gospels in the same way again. And what they also notice
is these compositional and rhetorical devices I mentioned in the book, they start to also see these
in their ordinary everyday conversations that they've been doing this for years.
They've been doing it themselves for years. These aren't unique. It's just, we don't tend to think
that ancient authors did these things or the Gospel authors, but they did.
Okay. Well, going back to just, just reversing a little bit to some of your other points,
but your points that you brought up, it seems, because we have Paul's our first writer,
in the New Testament. Probably. I have a theory that I've just thought up on the spot,
kind of thought about a little bit, but you know, Paul had this experience though on the road after
he was, you know, persecuting Christians. Was he was he killing them as well? I can't remember,
but he was persecuting them. He was persecuting them. And if acts is correct, he was consenting
to their executions. Right. Okay. Which is wild. Even back then, I can imagine that would be on
someone's conscience. So, you know, he has this experience, maybe it's like, I'm trying to come
up with a naturalistic explanation. He has this experience is maybe, you know, a tremendous
experience that, that is, you know, maybe medical in nature or whatever, but he has, but whatever
happens, he's convinced that he's met this Jesus and he's been wrong this whole time,
which causes him to do a huge flip in his, in his ideologies, very much similar to how I
was at church and I became captain Christian. And then he starts to plant churches, you know,
he has disagreements with the people who knew Jesus, but then he starts to plant churches,
and he's the one who kind of starts to grow Christianity the most. And as a result of this,
the church is growing. Yes. Yes. Among the Gentiles. And then, and then among that,
you know, they're like, well, what is this? We need a story. What's the story about Jesus?
We need to know this story. And then, of course, in, in Greek speaking, highly educated gospel
writers create these, what scholars will say, theological works to kind of explain that 30
years, 30, 40, 50 years later. To me, that makes total, that makes total sense in the realm of,
of a naturalistic explanation that you have, like if, like if Paul didn't exist,
there might not have been the Gospels, because it's maybe it was, because it doesn't make sense to me
that 30, 40 years later, we have these Gospels written. Like it seems that that could be a
natural, natural explanation for why, why things happen the way they did, especially because, and
like I want to get your, your take on this, but the gospel authorship, we, we, we don't know who
the gospel writers were. We know that they weren't, that they almost, I've had Bible scholars like
Kip tell me that he's 100% certain that they couldn't have been written by any of the disciples,
and that they had to be written by highly educated Greek writers. Why on earth are people in Greece,
or Greek writers writing this, and not someone who's writing Aramaic, or in Hebrew, or a language that,
you know, why, even if you're taking the words of Jesus that's spoken from his mouth, you're then
having to translate them into a new language, like the first step, the first step is like,
you're missing, you're missing some stuff there, right? So it just, why is that the case? Like,
why do you think that, sorry, what do you think of my theory? Well, you know, you said that scholars
are 100% certain. There are a lot of people who go to the wedding altar being 100% certain, they're
marrying the wrong person. And then later on, they're 100% certain they were wrong, you know,
being 100% certain, you can, a lot of people are that kind of certain when it comes to various
things, but it doesn't mean you're right. I go with the traditional authorship of all four Gospels,
and I'll tell you why. Really? I do. Okay. Now, John, I'm a little bit uncertain of, there's been,
in recent years, people have raised the question about maybe it, like Richard Bochum, and Ben
Witherton and others, but Bochum says it wasn't John the son of Zebedee, it was John the elder,
who was a disciple of Jesus, but a minor disciple of Jesus. I don't find that, I haven't found that
argument. I think it's plausible, but I don't, excuse me. It's not enough to convince me. The
majority of the early church fathers thought it was John the son of Zebedee. Okay. I think Matthew
was a little bit difficult too, and we can discuss that, but in terms of it being Greek, by highly
educated people, sure. Matthew, Mark, and well, we don't know much about Mark, but Matthew and John,
as a tax collector and a fisherman, would not have been highly educated. You don't have to be
highly educated to be a tax collector or a fisherman, but I don't think Matthew put pen to
papyrus, or John did either. Maybe Luke did. Again, we don't know much about Mark. He may or may not
have. Cicero was one of the most highly educated and brilliant people in the whole Roman Empire,
and yet he enlisted the services of a secretary, an immanuensis named Tiro. And on one occasion,
Cicero says, in one of his letters to Tiro, Tiro was sick at the time, and he'd gone back to his
hometown, and Cicero writes him and says, hey, Pompey came over my house and for dinner and asked
me to read something to him that had been working on. And he says, I refuse to do it because without
you, Tiro, my tongue is tied. So Tiro did a whole lot more than just take dictation from Cicero.
He edited and improved what Cicero wrote. When it comes to Paul, Paul was a highly educated Jew.
Yet in three of his letters, he ends it by saying, I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand,
meaning he didn't write the rest of it. He had a secretary. Well, maybe the secretary took
dictation. Well, maybe, but I think there's reason to believe that they did not do it, especially
in one of Paul's letters, the crown jewel of all of his letters, Romans. And in Romans 1622,
it reads, I, Tertius, who wrote this letter, greet you and the Lord. So Tertius names himself,
he's Paul's secretary, his Emanuensis, and he did a whole lot more, we can expect,
than just take dictation, because the quality of Paul's letter to the church at Rome
is head and shoulders above all of the others of Paul's writing. So he probably used a different
secretary there. Now, my point here is this, David, if Cicero and Paul who are highly educated can use
secretaries to write things like letters, well, wouldn't we expect Matthew, Mark and John,
perhaps even Luke, to use a secretary when composing something larger than a letter,
a biography of Jesus? I think that would have been the case. And so what you would have had
would have been these gospel authors, at least Matthew and John, that would have told the story
to the secretary who would have written down these notes and then composed the biography of Jesus,
presented it to Matthew and John for their approval. Maybe they said, oh, you know, no,
you need to include this or you need to change this to this. And then after the final draft,
they had the approval of the traditional authors and then sent them out. And David,
that resolves a whole lot, most of the major objections against the traditional authorship
of the Gospels, if there were secretaries involved. And it just makes perfect sense to me
that they would have used secretaries. We would be surprised that they did not.
Okay. Okay, if the traditional authorship of the Gospels is correct,
then Mark is writing what he remembered Peter, the lead apostle had said.
And John, the majority of scholars don't think John wrote the Gospel of John, but they do think
that either a minor disciple who had traveled with Jesus wrote it, or whoever wrote it,
used one of Jesus' disciples as their primary source. So they're still rooted in eyewitness
testimony. Well, I really wish I could go more into that. I'm only like,
we're like halfway through the interview, and I'm only like one tenth of the way through my notes.
So I'm going to try and... All right, I'll try to get a quicker answer. No, no, no. Long answers are
great. I want, this is what we do here in Deep Drinks, but I just wanted to, there's a lot of
other things I wanted to get to as well. But I just, we have a question from Dr. Cheryl.
Have you read Robin Faith Welsh's book, The Origins of Early Christian? What do you think of it?
I don't buy it. I think she makes a real interesting case, but she takes a lot of
uber skeptical views. Like, for example, she puts Luke in the early second century, which only a
very small minority of scholars, maybe 10% would go that far. And she takes, she adopts a number
of views like that and says, well, this is what scholars think. Well, it is what some scholars
think, but not a lot of scholars. And only those that are out there on the fringe of the theological
left. So, yeah, she says those things. What, what? Sorry, I just, it's funny that you said that,
because one of the criticism, like I was looking at the reviews of your book,
a lot of five-star reviews, and there's a couple of lower reviews. And the reviews,
have you read them on Amazon that say that Mark's gone too far left?
Yeah, the two, the two negative ones on there come from fans of Lydia McGrew and they're just
repeating her, her talking points. She has been a detractor of my work for, for several years now.
So, but if you look at one of them said, oh, Lacona's been going left. And he says that Matthew
displaced or relocated the Sermon on the Mount to the top of the Mount, because
as, as you know, Jesus here is being painted by Matthew as a type of, of New Moses. Folks,
I mean, this is something that New Testament scholars have been saying for years, even evangelical
scholars. So this is not a, a bizarre position. So Matthew is probably the most artistic of all the
Gospels. This, the guy who wrote that is, is, I mean, bless his heart, he probably means well,
I'm sure he means well. I'll just think that, like maybe, well, like, I don't know if this is public,
but before we started, you showed me your big Joe Biden tattoo on your back. You have this big
Joe Biden 2024 tattoo. And I was like, wow, that's, that's very interesting.
No. So I wanted to get your views on skepticism, actually, because
and you know, I just, the viewers know that is not true. That's a joke. That's a, I have to,
yeah, of course, of course, or hopefully that's going to be a clip. We knew it. I am not a Joe
Biden fan. Okay. What are your fans? What are your perspective on Hume? Are you a Hume fan?
That's what I wanted. No, actually, I critique Hume in chapter two of my large book on the
resurrection of Jesus. I think he gets a lot of things wrong. Yeah, of course. That's what, that's
a, well, let me just read one of my favorite quotes. And you can, and we can have a little bit
of a discussion about this. And I'll kind of lay out my thoughts on this, but
it's in Hume on miracles. No testimony is sufficient to establish a miracle unless that
testimony be of such a kind that it's falsehood would be more miraculous than the fact which
it endeavors to establish. When anyone tells me that they saw a dead man restored to life,
I immediately consider with myself whether it'd be more probable that this person should be deceived,
should either deceive or be deceived, or that the fact which he relates should really have happened.
I weigh one miracle against the other and accordance and according to the superiority
which I discover, I pronounce my decision and always reject the greater miracle.
So just taking that, like not all of Hume's work, I know he has some issues with other things,
but just taking that, do you have issues with that methodology? I do. And I think that's just a
poor historical approach. And what's interesting is Hume was a historian, but he was really bad
when it came to these kinds of things. So, you know, I look at this and I say, okay,
let's suppose we have some really good evidence that a miracle occurred. Okay. So
I think we have that with the resurrection of Jesus. But let's just take another thing. Let's say
that you've got a comment or let's say, I gave this example in my debate with Matt Dilla Honey.
Let's say that some Muslim terrorists came in and they said, Lakona, this is while we're debating,
Lakona, you've argued that Islam is false. And so you must die and they behead me right up there
on stage and everybody just flees the auditorium, leaving my headless corpse on the stage. And
everybody flees and the police are called. And an hour later, the police are talking to people
out just outside the church or whatever the auditorium in which I was in. And then I come
walking out of the auditorium, my head's attached, you see scars on my neck. And I'm alive. And I
come up and I say, Hey, Matt, you know, when I was in heaven, I talked to one of your friends who
died a year ago. And that friend shared with me a personal conversation they had with you the day
before they died. And they didn't share it with anyone else, they said, you're the only one they
ever shared it with. And now I'm repeating to you what that person told you. Well, I think
that would present some pretty good evidence. If I'm saying I'm coming back, God sent me back to
give a verification once again, that Christianity is true, that Jesus is the Son of God, follow him.
So I think we'd have some really good evidence at that point. So you say, Well, would you believe
it at that point? And Matt said, I don't know, maybe not. Okay, well, why not? You know, well,
you know, maybe it was magic that you performed of some kind. Okay, well, what if we could rule
out magic? And I asked the same thing of Bart Ehrman too. And he says, No, I don't think that we
could say it's a miracle. I said, Well, what would you call it then? He said, Well, a strange event.
Okay, well, the resurrection of Jesus was a strange event, you don't have to call it a miracle.
But it would still be, I think what most people would call it a miracle. If you have some really
good evidence of something, well, Mike, you don't have that kind of evidence for the resurrection
of Jesus. That's right. I agree. But we've got some pretty good evidence. We've got what enough
that virtually every scholar who studies the subject, no matter how skeptical, except for
the Jesus mythors, but there's not many of those in the world. But even people like Bart Ehrman,
who's an agnostic atheist, just like you, David, and Ehrman and other scholars who have studied
this will say there's no question about it. The disciples and Paul had experiences that they
were convinced were appearances of the risen Jesus to them. And they believed he'd been raised
physically bodily from the dead. Even Ehrman acknowledges that you even have an enemy of the
church who was biased in the opposite direction who came to this conclusion. So now you've got
to look at and these happen now, not everybody, but by a very large majority will agree that some
of these experiences happen with groups, which rules out group hallucinations.
Well, how does a rule act for hallucinations? Okay, hang with me. And I'll get to that.
Now the historian, what is the historian supposed to do? The historian is supposed to come up with
various hypotheses to explain those facts. And the hypothesis that can best explain them
is regarded as what probably occurred. So you look at things. The number one
alternative hypothesis is hallucinations. So when you start to understand what a hallucination is,
it is a false sensory perception. You are seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting, something that is not
actually there, or you get the sense of motion. They're like dreams. So if you fall off,
dream that you're falling, that is a kinesthetic hallucination. When you dream that you're falling
and then you wake up. That's a kinesthetic hallucination. Or you have the sense of touch.
It's when you first got your first cell phone, and you put it on vibrate, and you were sitting in a
class room, and you felt that you were getting a text message, and you picked up your phone,
and you looked at it and said, nobody loves me. It was a false alarm. That was a tactile hallucination.
Well, here's the thing. The people that are most likely to experience a hallucination are people
grieving over the loss of a loved one. And yet, only 7% of them experience a visual hallucination
of that person. And remember, they're reporting that Jesus appeared to them. So we'd be looking
at visual hallucination. So 7%, and yet the reports that we have are unanimous that not 7%,
but 100% of Jesus' disciples believe that they saw him. Moreover, then you've got Paul. Paul
wasn't grieving over Jesus' death. He was glad Jesus was dead. He believed Jesus was a failed
Messiah and a false prophet. So Jesus would have been the last person in the universe that Paul
would have expected to see or wanted to see. Now, what about the groups? Because hallucinations
are private occurrences in the mind of an individual, they have no external reality. So in that sense,
they're like dreams. And I couldn't wake up my wife in the middle of the night and say,
honey, I'm having a dream. I'm in Maui. Go back to sleep. Join me in my dream. And let's have a
free vacation. I couldn't do that. She might go and dream she's in Maui. I might dream I'm in Maui,
but we're not having the same dream. If I have a room filled with, let's say, 500 people and say,
let's all take a sleeping pill and go to sleep and dream we're in Maui. Not everybody's going to
dream they're in Maui. And even those who do dream they're in Maui, we're not going to have the same
kind of dream. That's because dreams are private occurrences in the mind of an individual. They
have no external reality, just like hallucinations. So what about group hysteria? Group hysteria is
auditory in nature, not visual. So that's problematic.
Well, so going back to, because this, because going back to my, my idea is like, we have Paul,
who'd never met the physical Jesus. Well, we don't know that. That's popular to be said,
but we don't know that. Paul was going to Jerusalem during all the major festivals,
the same thing Jesus is going to. And so he had to know why he hated Christianity. So why wouldn't
you? Okay, but I mean, on the road to Damascus, it was like, if the road to Damascus was a
hallucination, well, then you have other there, because if you're going to trust,
yeah, but we have got others who are participating in it.
That was powerful enough to get him to create that hallucination. That thing that he experienced
was powerful enough that he devoted his whole life to Christianity and credit all these churches.
You can, you can very clearly see how if someone has this, has a, that it seems very obvious
to me, there's a few things. Okay, let me, let me run, let me run down. If it was only Paul,
you'd have a point. If it was only Paul, and we didn't have the book of Acts, because the same
book of Acts that talks about his experience as kind of a vision, others were there,
they saw the light, they heard the voice, they just didn't understand what the voice was saying.
It's recalled that they said, okay, so let me just let my argument, it's like historically,
we have a lot of, a lot of apocalyptic preachers in the first century, right? We have numerous
stories of dying and rising gods. No, we don't. Yes, we do. Yeah, like who?
We got a few dying and rising figures. Okay, we got a few dying and rising figures in the eastern,
Near Eastern Mediterranean world, but these are Dionysus. Dionysus. Yeah, but it's very,
very different. These are all very different. In fact, T and D. Well, the Dionysus is tied to the
agricultural cycles as most of them were in the ancient Near Eastern Mediterranean world, but
T and D. Medingar wrote a monograph on this and he said, yeah, we got some, we got three,
maybe as many as five, but he says they're all tied to the agricultural cycles. There's dryness,
that's death, and then you have rain, and that's resurrection, and it happened every year.
He says, okay, so let me let me get my thoughts out. So we have numerous stories. Well, okay,
we have stories of dying and rising gods that you have issued with. We have billions of people
who believe separate deities, even unto death. There's the tragedy of 9-11. You know, those people
weren't going like, oh, I wonder if I'm going to go to meet 72 versions. They really believed
what they believed. There are people who set themselves on fire believing what they believe.
Like there are people who will follow their, what you would consider, false beliefs to death.
They really believe it. And so you have Paul who has this experience. He starts all of these
churches. It just seems quite, when you read the story, the story seems to make sense, and then
all of a sudden you get to Acts 1. And I remember reading this as a kid. He appeared to them for
a period of 40 days and spoke to about the kingdom of God. On one occasion, while he was eating with
them, he gave them this command, do not go to Jerusalem, but wait for the gift of my
Father's promise, which you have heard and you speak for, which you heard me speak about.
For John baptized with water, but in a few days he'll be baptized with the Holy Spirit.
And then later, sorry, oh yeah, but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes to you
and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and all of Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth.
And after this, he was taken up before the very eyes and a cloud hit him from their side.
That one little verse there, you can't tell me that that seems so abrupt and so
what? That doesn't seem like it was just interjected into the text. It doesn't seem
like something that, even as a Christian, I read this and I was like, that sounds strange.
Like that sounds like just all of a sudden this happened. And why would he, it gets to
me because it's like, if Jesus was, if heaven is up there and Jesus is traveling to heaven
and he was traveling at a rate that, you know, that he was heading up towards the clouds,
it's like he's, unless he's sped up faster than speed of light or disappeared and then
reappeared in heaven, he's still traveling to heaven. That's why Jesus hasn't returned yet,
because he hasn't even made it there, because we can see 13.8 billion years into the into the
cosmos. So it's like, unless he just disappeared and then reappeared in heaven, you know, like
the transported. But why would he then lift up? Why would he then drift off into the clouds? Why
wouldn't he just go, bang, I'm going, I'm going to heaven guys and then like just be in heaven.
Why did he take off in a random direction into space and then either then disappear or then
speed up to faster than speed of light to make it to where we can't see, which is where heaven is.
It seems, it seems like a very human idea that was just pushed into the book when we didn't
understand that the world was a spherical, we didn't understand how big space was, we didn't
like it just seems very, the clouds hit him. What do you mean? Like that, it just, to me,
that just, it reeks of human, you know, human hands in that one. You don't think so?
I guess I just don't find that troubling, David. It's like the same author, Luke, when he's
reporting the resurrection of Jesus, he's got two stories in there. He's got the Amaias disciples,
which it says their eyes were kept from recognizing him. And then they recognized him later with the
breaking of the bread and then boom, he disappeared from their sight. And then they're back, they
run to Jerusalem to tell them what had happened. And while they're talking there, boom, Jesus
appears before them, even though like the doors are locked and it's like, okay. So why lift up?
Why go off into the clouds? I don't know. And he could have just disappeared from them or like
did a kazoo on the Flintstones like he did with the Southern stuff, or he could have just lifted
up and gone. I don't know. But it's like, all right, I mean, I can kind of see your point, but
it's not big enough. It just doesn't bother me. Yeah. Okay. So
I was having a conversation with someone on Twitter the other day, I should never do that.
I should never converse with anyone on Twitter. It's a bad thing for me to do.
But they were telling me, they were interjecting to my idea about, it was actually totally
irrelevant, but they were trying to tell me about the truth of Islam. I've read the Quran.
I'm sure you read through the Quran. Not the whole thing, but a lot of it. Yes.
Yeah. Well, I listened to it and I kind of, you know, I wasn't focusing really strongly. I was
gardening or something. So I just replied to this person, Quran 434 is enough for me to
come to the conclusion that the Quran is not divine. But that's all text. And just for anyone
who doesn't know, it says, if you fear high handliness from your wives, remind them of the
teachings of God, then ignore them when you go to bed, then hit them. Most translations say beat.
If they obey you, you have no right to act against them. God is the most high and great.
And this person responds back with, you've got the wrong, you've got the wrong translation.
The real translation sends me a video is tap, tap your wives.
That still doesn't solve the issue for me because I said, I think more highly of your God than you
do. You believe that the all knowing creator of the universe couldn't come up with a better way to
fix marital disputes than for the husband to ignore his wife and then tap her. I think
higher, more highly of your God than you do. But here's the part that you're not going to like, Mike.
I feel the same about Christianity, slavery, infanticide, taking the version girls for yourself.
All these given as commandments from God, that's enough for me to determine that this book is not
divine. Or at least it's got man's hands all through it. What do you say to that?
Yeah, I struggle with some of the stuff in the Old Testament, to be honest with you.
I see how some people try to reconcile those things. And some of them it's like, all right,
that's possible. And others it's like, yeah. So I look at it, I see scripture as having a dual
authorship. And so when the psalmist says of its captors, that he will rejoice at the day
when the babies of the captors are slammed against the walls, their heads are slammed
against the walls and killed. Do I think God was behind that? No. I think the psalmist is talking
about their frustration and their rage at being in captivity and how their captors are talking
about or how their captors are treating them. I look at inspiration a little bit differently
than some Christians do. I look at it as dual authorship that there are certain messages that
God wants communicated. There we can just understand with the psalmist, yeah, we understand why
you're that way. We feel rage at some things too. There's some things that we don't understand.
The infanticide, things like that. Or like in the Old Testament, it talks about the genocide
of their enemies. I do think that Paul Copan and Matthew Flanagan have some decent ways of
addressing that. And the late Michael Heiser even gave it a different spin on it, which I think is
really good and plausible as well. So there are some ways of looking at some of those things. But
yeah, if you were looking at this, that God wanted every word in the Bible exactly as it is. He is
the one that fed these words to the people to write down. Well, then you do have problematic
with some things. Okay. Well, I appreciate you showing the same empathy. A lot of people,
a lot of Christians, don't care about that stuff. They'll point and say that, how dare you
challenge, like, where do you get your morality from? That's the classic one. And I like the whole
conversation about morality. Like the morality to me is not solved. That's why you've got people
debating morality all the time. But when someone says like, where do you get your morality from?
I really like what Dr. Josh Bowen says, where he says, my morality starts from position that owning
another human being as property is wrong. I just, I'm not willing to go into the conversation to
talk, like to look at the weeds of that, because we all agree to that in some way.
Yeah, but does that matter that people really, I mean, people could agree on that, but that
doesn't mean that it's wrong just because people agree on it. I mean, then someone could disagree.
That's getting into the conversation of morality. But there's something that is happening,
that I'm sure you know Dr. Josh Bowen, if you had conversations with him before,
he wrote the, okay, he's a, he's a seriologist and Bible scholar, Hebrew Bible scholar,
and he wrote a book, It Does God Endorse Slavery. And he has like, I think, I think he's got 800
sources, like incredible amounts, like it's the go-to book. And, and he is like, it's very much
like, yes, the Old Testament doesn't endorse slavery, but this is the kind of slavery it was,
et cetera, et cetera. But one thing that he's finding is people will argue with him online.
And when he finally convinces them that, yes, the Bible does actually condone or even endorse
slavery, these people, these Christians are saying, well, I guess slavery is okay.
And that's like a really scary thing. That's like a, that's, that's something that worries me. And
that's, that's what I think. The problem, I think the, the good thing about Christianity is it's
had, it's been, it's kind of been changed. Like it's been, it's evolved for the time a little bit.
That's the problem I see with Islam. I don't think Islam, because Islam in the Quran, it says this is
the, this is words directly from Allah, it cannot be changed. You've got verses like Quran 434,
it's like that, but just there. And I've had a Muslim on deep drinks before that's told me that
there'd be less domestic abuse if Quran 3434 was put into law. I was like, how does more domestic
abuse reduce domestic, like, autonack? It's, it's, it's, it's crazy.
Well, let me say two things if, if, if I'm, if you would allow me on the slavery thing.
I'm not an Old Testament scholar. And so I'm not going to be an expert on this, but
I've heard that a lot of times the slavery that you find talked about in the Old Testament was
different than what you would find in like slavery that you have today, where a person is
actually enslaved. It would be something like they sell themselves into slavery for a few years
in order to pay off debts. So yeah, they're slaves for a few years in that kind of thing.
Now I might be wrong on, on some things, part of that, but I do think that that was kind of part
of it. Another thing I would say is if Jesus rose from the dead, then Christianity is probably
almost certainly true. And so what would we do at the very worst, those texts about slavery
and phantasy in the Old Testament, that those would be religious, political propaganda meant
to justify the acts of a brutal, Israelite king. It would impact how we view the Old Testament
and some of the doctrines about the inspiration of scripture, but it wouldn't undermine actually,
it wouldn't undermine the truth of Christianity if Jesus rose from the dead. So that's how I kind
of look at those things. I appreciate that. There's, we did a, we did a stream with, I brought on
Dr. Samuel Klein, Dr. Jennifer Bird, Dr. Matt, Dr. Kip and Dr. Josh to talk about biblical
slavery. And we went through, I mean, Dr. Josh gave a presentation about the different types,
but there is, there is the, what you're talking about the Hebrew, the Hebrew,
like debt slaves, but there's also chattel slavery, there's also sex slavery. But the way that we
define, you see what, what people, this is getting into the weeds, but the way that the book, because
the Bible doesn't call something rape or, or sexual slavery or something, people will say, well,
it's not, but if you, but what would, in this, he's very explicit saying, what we call it today,
that's what, if you were to bring it back then, that's, that's what those, those things are called.
So, okay. Stealing today is the same as what's stealing back then, but, you know,
yeah. So I wanted to, we're running out of time. I wish we could talk for longer. But
one of the things I wanted to, to talk to you about is the resurrection, because obviously
that's your, is your bread and butter. And you just, you just know it. And I haven't really
looked into it too much. But what I, I've heard you say a lot of times that if Jesus rose from
the dead, Christianity is true. And I have problems with that. Why? Okay, well, let's get into it.
So, well, first of all, I can think of other reasons. Like, this has been just being very
pedantic, but like, maybe there was a natural explanation for Jesus, rather than we didn't
know. Maybe people were just, why, why you say that? I mean, keep going on. But what do you think
the probability is that Jesus, given what we know from science, that Jesus was raised naturally?
Well, we have no, we have no evidence of, we have no way to verify supernatural either. So the same,
I could say the same thing about the supernatural. I disagree with that. Because I think we do have
evidence for supernatural. But that said, it's what we do know from science that would seem to
militate against Jesus being raised naturally in his body, being healed, and being to the point where
that they thought he was raised in a resurrection and immortal body, just within a few days of his
brutal skirting and execution. I mean, that seems the prior probability of that itself would be zero,
or be so low as to be practically zero. Now, you may not be convinced totally about the evidence
for God, but I think if you're being honest, you'd have to admit that there is some compelling
evidence for God's existence. It may not be enough to persuade you, but the evidence for a designer
of the universe and life itself. I'd love to get, I'd love to get into that. Like, I've heard you
talk about this before, like, like, you know, the universe looks designed, but we only know this
universe. So we have no, nothing to contrast it to. So therefore, how do we know, you know, like,
there's a lot of things I could say to that, but I just want to, because we're running out of time,
I just want to go ahead. We've got, we've got, you know, we have, so you have this statement,
if Jesus was from dead, Christianity is true, but I could just as easily make other statements,
and I'll read out some and just tell me what you disagree with after I finish.
If someone is reincarnated, Eastern religion must be true. So all we need is like a testimony
of something like that. Another one is, if the, if the resurrection accounts of Sathrasai Baba,
of which you can still talk to people who have experienced that stuff today, the resurrection
of Walter Cohen, the resurrection of Radhakrishna, which I've got testimonies that are there from
Sathrasai Baba in the 1950s, then Sathrasai Baba's religion was true. Another one is, and this is my
favorite one, because I'm doing a video on this at the moment, if Jesus didn't return within a
generation, Christianity isn't true, of course, talking about when Jesus said in Matthew 24.
Now, people will go, oh, the word generation means race, and I will let you speak, but just let me,
let me kind of go on. Paul writes the church in Corinth telling the people there, for them
to stand firm until the end. Paul tells, Paul in Thessalonians tells, says, we who are still alive,
who are left until the coming of the Lord when the angels come. For the Lord will come down from
heaven with a loud command and a voice of an archangel who's telling them we who are still alive.
And then, you know, to Peter, above all, you must understand in the last days scoffers become scoffing,
following their own evil desires, they will say, where is this coming? He promised ever since the
answers has died, everything goes on as it has since the beginning of creation. And then he
poetically adds the perfect excuse with a day, with the Lord of days, like a thousand years and
a thousand years is like a day. So to me, I look at that and go, well, hang on, Jesus said he's
coming back. This is this is evidence that it's not true, which by the way, it's also funny because
Sathra Sai Baba predicted he was going to come back when he died in 1989. He didn't, but he still
has millions of followers over from India. So I'm seeing some parallels here. Yeah. So what do
you say to that? I mean, I don't know if you know about Sathra Sai Baba's miracles or you've
read them. I don't. I'm not familiar with those. I'd have to look at those, but I can't comment
because I'm not familiar with them. What I would say is, yep, it's indisputable that the early
church, including Paul, at least in the earlier days, believed that Jesus was coming back in their
lifetime. And then they were trying to figure out why he hadn't returned. And so statements of Jesus
to the effect that some of you standing here will not die before you see, you know, me coming back
in glory. So, you know, people tried to look at that in different ways, and about this generation
will not pass away until all these things happen. Well, maybe Jesus didn't actually say, well, if
he didn't say those, then why did all the Christians seem to believe that he was coming back in their
lifetime? It seems to me that that is evidence that Jesus actually made those kinds of statements.
So, how do we account for that? I read a book recently, looking to see if I can see it on my
shelf. There it is. When the Son of Man Didn't Come. I believe it was co-edited by Christopher Hayes.
He's the main editor on it, and a bunch of different contributors. I just read this
recently. And it does present an interesting perspective. I need to think about it more,
but it seemed plausible to me when I read it. And here's what they're saying. There were two
kinds of prophecies. There's the Mosaic kind of prophecy, where God says in the Pentateuch that
if a prophet makes a prophecy and it doesn't come true, then that prophet is a false prophet,
needs to be stoned. So, there's that kind of prophecy. And then you have the Jeremiah type
of prophecy, which is a conditional prophecy. So, Jeremiah makes this kind of prophecy says,
hey, you guys are going to Babylon, and you're going to be there for 70 years. And then you're
going to come back and you're going to establish the Jewish nation again and all this kind of stuff.
So, I think it was 72 years later. So, that's close enough because you can look at round figures.
I don't have a problem with 72. That is when the Assyrians took over, they defeated Babylon,
and then the Assyrian king tells Nehemiah, you can go and take some people with you
and go, you know, re-establish Jerusalem, build a wall. So, Nehemiah goes out there,
he takes some Jews with him, but the king does not allow all the Jews. He doesn't set them all free,
and that's at 72 years. They're still not free. They go, and it's decades, decades later,
and they're still trying to establish stuff, and still most of the Jews are in captivity.
So, that hasn't been fulfilled. But God tells them that they are to come back to him. Well,
most of the Jews did not go back to worship in Yahweh at that point. So, what the authors suggest
in here, the contributors suggest, that Jeremiah, and some of the things that Jeremiah predicted,
still haven't come to pass. So, it's a conditional type prophecy. So, if you do this, I will do this.
And it's not stated that way at the beginning, but it ends up being a type of conditional
prophecy. So, maybe this prophecy of Jesus, about those standing here and his coming back,
would be a conditional type of prophecy. So, I don't remember what all the conditions that
they suggested there would have been. I just remembered it sounds possible. It's definitely
interesting. One of them was we didn't preach the gospel in all the world,
and then the end will come, obviously. This is what I say in my video. When I was a Christian,
we had this local pastor. She prophesied that there would be a huge natural disaster coming to
Australia if we didn't pray. We prayed, and then there was no natural disaster. But if there was
a natural disaster, we didn't pray hard enough. So, either way, she was right. And I feel like
I feel like when prophecies can be, this is my problem, but I feel like if prophecies are conditional
like that, it's like, what's the point? It just seems like they're becoming useless. They're
absolutely useless, nonsensical. But that's me. And Mike, we're really getting close to time.
Can you go over a couple minutes to answer some super chats, or are you 90? Okay.
Okay. I just wanted to ask you one last question. I have so much more to ask you,
but I have one last question I wanted to ask. Paul asked me to ask you, actually. I don't
know if you know Paul ends from Paula Gia. Oh, yeah. I mean, I don't know him personally,
but yeah. He's a great guy, friend of the show. Great guy. Big channel I hear.
Yeah, he's a cool guy. And he recently wrote a blog on the bottom and blog called The Minimal
Witnesses Naturalistic Hypothesis. Have you read it or have you heard it? Okay. So this is his idea
for why to account for the growth of Christianity. And I'll just run through the titles. We obviously
don't have time to dive right into it, but I want to just get your first thoughts on it.
So this is the hypothesis. So one, in the early first century, among the apocalyptic
preachers active in Judea was one, Jesus of Nazareth. Two, this Jesus said, or did controversial
things which led to his crucifixion on the cross, a common practice at the time. Three,
the resting place of Jesus' body was unknown to his followers. I would disagree with three.
Okay. Four, this Jesus had some followers while he was alive, but most disappeared into
lives never recorded by reliable history, never to be heard from again, all except
some and Peter and possibly John. He's going to have a number of followers that we don't know
what happened to them. That can be said about any major figure, but no, I think we know about
what happened to some, some more than that. Okay. Five, destroyed after death of his mentor,
someone Peter became sincerely a bit mistakenly convinced that Jesus had appeared to him.
Of course you disagree with that. Yeah, I wouldn't say mistakenly, but, but certainly
everybody would, everybody would agree that Peter came to believe Jesus had appeared to him.
Yeah. Six, Jesus had a brother. The Jesus, the brother, oh my gosh, James, the brother of Jesus
became part of Peter's Jesus movement, perhaps also one of the disciples named John. Stories
about Jesus spread through, um, through person to person evangelism with the focus on recruiting
new followers rather than accurately transmitting historical events. Paul or Saul, go back to
number seven. Yeah. Stories about Jesus spread through person to person evangelism with the
focus on, so is with rather than accurately transmitting historical events. No, I wouldn't
agree with that. I think that they were capable of reporting accurate history.
You've got things like Paul and first Corinthians, chapter 11, who goes over some of the
Jesus sayings at the Last Supper with the Eucharist. And then when Luke writes his gospel
somewhere between five to 35 years later, it's virtually verbatim. So there was this Jesus
tradition that was, I think, was passed along in its integrity. And that's why they had oral
tradition as well. You read this in the first Corinthians 15, verses three through seven,
that they passed on. I delivered to you what I also received. He died, was buried, was raised,
he appeared. And it follows the same kind of stuff that you find in the gospels. I mean,
we could go on and things like that. And then you have the certain summaries, which is considered to
be a charismatic summaries that we have encapsulated in Acts. Most scholars believe that too.
Okay. Paul, Saul, a Pharisee who has been persecuting the new Christians out of
sensei belief that they were serving God, experienced a non-veredical vision of the
allegedly resurrected Jesus. Non-veredical? I mean, it depends if you take the story of Acts,
if you take the story of Acts seriously in Acts 9, 22, and 26, it talks about bystanders there that
also participated in that experience. So that would be veridical if the story is true. You can't just,
I mean, maybe you just selectively look at the vision part, but selectively reject the other
things that would nullify your hypothesis here. But that's a buffet style of criticism where you
just pick the food you like and reject the rest because it doesn't fit you. You're moot at the
time. You guys should have a discussion, I think. It'd be really, really interesting. Paul and Peter
and John, Paul met Peter and John, but they didn't see eye to eye. That's true. On some things they
didn't. I mean, you find in Galatians chapter one, which is an undisputed letter of Paul,
he goes up, he spends 15 days with Peter and also saw James the brother of Jesus at that time.
But in Acts chapter two, they go up there and he runs the gospel message past, and this is in
verses 1 through 10, runs the gospel message past the fillers of the church, Peter, James, and John
to ensure that he's on message with what they're preaching. And he says they extended the right
hand of fellowship and didn't add anything to what he said. So when it comes to the gospel message
itself, the essentials of the Christian faith, they were in agreement. It's not until a few
verses later that Paul talks about how after that event, Peter came and visited them in Antioch and
there were some of men of James, they seemed to be legalists who were insisting that the Jews
continue with the Jewish law at that point. And so Peter refuses to eat in the same room
as the Gentile Christians. And this is where Paul rebukes Peter to his face.
So but later on, we find Peter accepting Gentiles. If Acts 15 is correct, he's now accepting Gentiles
into the fold. He understands this because he says God revealed that to him. So yeah, they had some
theological misunderstandings at some point, but it doesn't, but it seems that they resolved those
things. Okay. Ten, several decades later, Greek speaking individuals who had never met Jesus or
Peter began documenting and circulating stories about Jesus, the sayings attributed to him and
their interpretations of these narratives. Yeah, again, as we talked about earlier, I do think that
the Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, the traditional authors, I think there's decent evidence that
the traditional authors are behind those Gospels. And yes, they probably used Greek speaking
secretaries to write these things down. And Greek was the lingua franca of that day. So you would
want, if you want to reach the world, you want to do it in the language that everybody can understand
or the most people can understand. Cool. Let me pull with you and he wrote in Greek, right? He wrote
in Greek. So yeah, I never thought about that actually. I haven't gotten to Paul, you know,
like in my thinking, you know, I'm still in the Gospels, but that's interesting. I didn't actually
consider about that. Okay, you think I've learned this in my search for Christian ministries, which
it's huge education there. Okay, 11. Occasionally, some early Christians engage in disruptive
behavior and face consequences as a result. That's pretty political. Yeah. And 12 centuries later
in 303 AD. And hold on a second, that disruptive behavior we're talking about in the early church.
Yeah, that'd be among some of the Jews, where the Jewish leaders, they were the ones protesting the
Christians in the synagogues. And finally, the Christians were excommunicated. And the Jewish
leaders were causing a lot of problems at that point. So then you got to say, well, who was
causing the disruptive behavior? Was it the Christians or was it the Jewish leaders at that
time? And I'm not anti-Semitism here. It's not anti-Semitic here, because these people, Paul,
and the early Christians were Jews. So yeah, so you have that. And yeah, the Romans started putting
them to death because what they were saying is the Romans didn't care if you believed in your own
God. What got the Christians in trouble was they're saying, Jesus is Lord and Caesar is not.
And they refused to bow the knee to Caesar. And that's what got them executed. And why the Romans
called them atheists. I've always found that interesting, actually. And number 12 centuries
later, in 303 AD, Christianity was temporarily outlawed in Rome, but it gained legal protection
10 years later and soon became the Roman Empire's first official religion,
marking its transformation towards the institution we know today.
So obviously, you need to read the other texts in this, and Paul's got a video on this.
Give us a percentage. What is the percentage chance you think that holds water?
Zero. I'm not just trying to say that. I mean, there's a lot of wrong with what he just said.
So when you get some of these major pillars wrong, that just kind of
just destroys the overall hypothesis.
What do you think is the main problem? What would bring it from a zero percent to a one percent?
I'd have to go back and look at the 12 or 13 points again. But I mean, just some of them
were just out right wrong. Okay, interesting. I'd love to see a conversation between you guys.
So thank you so much for coming on. We have a few super chats. I first want to just shout out
the patron archbishops. Thank you to Jason Rollins, Matthew Monga, Digital Hammurabi,
and skeptics and scandals, Eric. Thank you so much for your support. Really appreciate it.
You guys are awesome. We have a few super chats. Thank you, Mike, for staying back for a couple
of minutes. So first of all, we have a new channel member. Thank you. That's my dad actually. Thanks,
dad. That's really nice. Michael Beverly, 50 pesos. Reading Mike's book right now just started
last night. Just wanted to say hello and hope skeptics will support Lacona's work.
Oh, that's kind, Michael. And yeah, I've had two interviews with Michael and have enjoyed them.
And what I've enjoyed about Michael and also potential theist, potential theism,
Jordan there. And with you as well, David, I mean, we've been able to have a collegial conversation.
But then afterward, neither Michael nor Jordan, and I don't think you will either,
you know, talk despairingly. I'm not going to make it five reasons why Mike is dumb.
Like, I'm not going to make a video like that. Yeah. And it's like, that's just a turnoff to a
lot of us Christians. Of course not. You know, so I actually, I do want to ask you this because
is it true that you lost your job because of, you lost your job because
of some of your great saints? The great saints of Matthew. No, it's not true.
Oh, it's not true. It's not. That that lie was started by Norman Geisler and one of his associates.
What happened, what happened was I was working for the North American Mission Board,
having fruitful ministry there. I mean, it's a mission board. It's not an academic institution.
And I was going around the country and lecturing on college campuses and at
pastors conferences and things like this. And then Norman Geisler started to criticize me.
And then I went to HR and another friend of mine who's a VP there. And I said,
I think I need to resign because I don't want to bring a black eye to the North America.
It's just a mission board. And they said, no, no, you'll be okay. And then
Norman Geisler kept publishing and open letters to me against me. And so I talked to my wife and
I said, I really think we need to resign. She says, well, what are we going to do? And I said,
you know, God will provide that we just got to do the right thing here. And so I went in
and I resigned and they turned down my resignation at first. And then by the end of the day,
they accepted it and they gave me a very nice, they were cutting back people anyway,
and they told me it was already, when I went to the North American Mission Board,
there was over 400 employees. When I left, there was 130 some, they were cutting back severely.
And then they shared with me that it was 50 50, whether they were going to keep me out
at the end of that year anyway, so that just made it the decision easy for them.
But they supported me a little bit, gave me some seed money, and I left on very good terms.
When it came to Southern evangelical seminary, I had a conversation, some of the faculty,
those really aligned with Norman Geisler, were we're really questioning. And so the interim
president asked me to have a was not a zoom call, but it was another one I just haven't
heard of recently, WebEx or something like that. Yeah, yeah, yeah, one of them. And so I joined
that call. And they just a number of the faculty, you know, blasted me with questions. And then
finally, Thomas Howell, who is an associate of Norman Geisler said,
well, I asked him a question, because he seemed to be the most radical of them. And I said, Hey,
listen, do you think that the great red seven headed dragon and revelation, whose tail is going
to sweep a third of the stars of heaven down to earth? Do you view that as a real space monster
out there flying in the cosmos? And he said yes. And at that point, I mean, it's clear that this
is a metaphor for Satan. And at that point, I did not want to be associated with that seminary.
And I called Gary Habermas, and I said, I want to resign. And he said, Oh, why? And I told him,
he says, Yeah, you probably should. And so I did. And then the word that I got fired,
which I didn't. And so I called him president. And I said, I said, Hey, why is this going around?
He said, I'll get to the bottom of this. And one guy almost got fired for spreading that lie.
And I got a letter from the interim president saying I was in good standing and friend of the
seminaries. There are only reasons I bring that up is because I don't know if you know this,
but proponents of the Jesus myth theory myth will use that as an example for why the Jesus myth
theory hasn't gained ground. They say even Christians, if they don't hold to the strict
narrative in academia, they're just ostracized, they're fired, and they will say this and they'll
use your example of being fired for not not subscribing to the to the raised saints. And
they'll use that and say that's why the Jesus myth theory hasn't taken hasn't got winded in sales.
That's ridiculous. I mean, it is certainly the case in some
like Southern Baptist seminaries are very conservative seminaries that, you know,
if you veer from some of their, you know, very conservative doctrines that your history. And
so for that, some professors who maybe entertaining other beliefs won't make those public.
But, but, you know, that's also the same in secular universities to where you're a Christian
professors who won't openly profess their faith because they're afraid they won't get
tenure or something. What I can say, though, is why it's so ridiculous is because even people
like Bart Ehrman and other atheists and agnostics, Morris Casey, who was an agnostic who died a few
years ago, they thought they think that the Jesus myth hypothesis is absurd, who no rational person
should adopt. So why would Bart Ehrman, Morris Casey, and so many others think that? I mean,
a lot of New Testament scholars, you go to the annual meeting of the Society of Biblical Literature
in the American Academy of Religion, and you'll, if you think that most New Testament scholars
are Christians in a sense that Jesus and his disciples are to recognize, you'll be awakened
to your mistake very quickly. So why do, why can only Richard Carrier only find
approximately 13 scholars in the relevant fields in the entire universe who are living,
who would say that Jesus probably didn't exist? Why only 13 in the whole world?
Well, there is disciples, he's 13 disciples. No, I'm just making a joke.
There's a reason why this is rejected by the overwhelming majority of scholars today,
even some of your very, very skeptical ones and atheists out there.
Yeah, I've had some drama with the mythos on this channel before, but I'll leave it at that.
Michael Beverly, thank you for the another 50 pesos.
Have you had any more time to study Jewish customs? I think, I still think going to
spice an already dead and buried body by women is totally unbelievable.
Yeah, Michael, I haven't really studied that enough, so I can't, I would refer you to a book
written by Rachel Haklili, published by Brill. So it's an academic volume.
The title of it is Jewish Burial Customs, Rights, and Practices in the Second Temple Period,
and she'll talk about all those kinds of things in it. I don't even know if she's a believer,
but she might know some more about stuff in that volume there. I mean, we could come up with some
ad hoc kind of argument answer that may or may not be correct, but I just don't want to take a stab
in it because it's not something I've studied. Another $100 pesos, thank you, Michael Beverly.
Jewish laws are broken, hitting him, high priest tearing the code, conflicting witnesses done in
secret, night on holiday. Is this all literally convention, literally convention, sorry,
and why no Jewish polemic against? Not sure what he means by that question,
why no Jewish polemic against, but no, I don't think it's literary convention. Even Josephus
talks about the corruption of the Jewish leadership around that time, so that's not at all something
that I think we need. I mean, it's certainly plausible with what other writers said of the
Jewish leadership of that day. Another one from Michael Beverly, have you watched Darren Brown?
He talks to the dead, does miracles of all kinds, reads minds, etc. He can convince atheists of
spiritual things. No, I've never heard of him. Yeah, he's a magician and he, an atheist, he's
not like he tries to expose spiritual things, and he does this one episode that you should look up
online where he takes an atheist who doesn't believe in God, brings them into a church,
and does a bunch of tapping and a bunch of things, and says a bunch of things that gets
her to have a really tremendous spiritual experience. He leaves him and then she just starts
bawling her eyes out, praying, looking at this figure of Jesus, and he's done an awful pair of
suggestion, and it's quite incredible. If you believe it, if you can believe it, it's not like a
false thing. Anyway, it's interesting to watch. And one last super chat. Thank you so much,
searching Deepa for the 70, I don't know what the currency is, but thank you so much. Paul,
I think this is to me, Paul was blind for three days after his conversion until Anais,
sorry, prayed for him. How do you hallucinate being blind? That's not something you can be confused
about. I don't think that's a question for me, it's a question for you. Yeah, I think that,
I don't know, but I think that, could this be explained through some medical experience?
I had a friend who was punched in the face and he lost in a boxing match, he lost his
sight in one eye for a week or something, and if people have epileptic fits, a whole lot of
stuff can happen. So I don't know, but could this be explained through a medical thing? Maybe,
I don't know. The thing that gets me and Mike, actually, I won't even go there, but I don't
know is the answer for me, but I just want to be respectful. Can I throw something in here, David?
When we look at different things like this particular story of Paul
getting a sight back when Anais prayed for him, we might be able to come up with a natural
explanation for that. Be quite ad hoc, but you might be able to come up with one. You might be
able to come up with one for Peter. You might be able to come up with one for Paul. If all we had
were Paul, then I probably wouldn't believe it. If all we had was the testimony of Peter,
then I probably wouldn't go with it. If all we had was the Anais story, well, I probably wouldn't
go with it. But the responsibility of the historian is to come up with a hypothesis
that accounts for all of these things and the best explanation to do it with the least amount
of speculation, meaning you want the least ad hoc hypothesis. That's why I think the resurrection
hypothesis works better than the others. It is the only hypothesis that can really explain all the
facts adequately without having to do unbridled speculation involved, without having to force
things to fit. It comfortably accounts for all of the facts and does so really well.
I would argue that we do see forcing of the facts because we change a lot of the doctrines of the
Old Testament. Messiah then becomes spiritual rather than physical. There's a lot of
a lot of like, well, actually, the Old Testament means this. There's a lot of that going on.
But let's just, I think, anyway, leave it for another conversation. Two last questions for you,
and then we'll wrap up. What if anything would change your mind?
Well, if the archaeologists somehow were digging around in Jerusalem and found an
asherwary that said Jesus, son of Joseph, who was called Jesus of Nazareth, son of Joseph,
who was called the Messiah, and then you open it up and there's the remains,
skeletal remains of a crucified individual. And then there's some papyri inside that says,
we fooled the world until today, and it's signed by Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. And then they do
a DNA testing on the bones, and then they match it with some blood samples from the shroud of
turning. They say, this is the same guy. Well, you know, I'd probably have to say the resurrection
has been refuted. Now, in all seriousness, they're probably, you know, if you came up with something
like that, then I'd say, yeah, or if a naturalistic explanation could come up and do a much better
job of explaining the data in my mind than the resurrection hypothesis, then I would be convinced
he didn't rise from the dead. I just haven't seen anything like that.
Do you think it would affect your spiritual life? Do you think you'd continue to pray?
Yeah, I would, because I'm still convinced by the evidence that God exists. I still think that
the evidence, the scientific, philosophical, and even moral evidence for objective moral values
still point to the existence of a designer and supreme being of the universe, and I would still
try to live a moral life and try to live a moral, humble life before God. I would still stick with
that. I would just give up Christianity. That's actually what Michael Jones said somewhere,
actually. And last question. This is a fun one. What is the most plausibly true religion that you
don't believe in? That's a good question. It's fun because everyone can answer it, right?
I guess I would just have to say not so much a religion, but I would say more of like a
God exists, but he hasn't actually revealed himself specifically in one person.
Like theistic kind of thought. Well, I still believe theism is true because it seems to me that
God has intervened in our world at times through certain miracles. I would just think that maybe
God doesn't care who, you know, a more general theism, and that maybe he doesn't care what you believe,
something like that. I would probably go with that.
Okay. Awesome. Well, thank you so much. We have your book, obviously. People should go check it
out. You also have a YouTube channel. Let me just share this tab instead. Have you got anything
coming up that people might be interested in checking out?
On the YouTube channel, I mean, we're always producing some content on there, a lot of
shorts, the reels and things like that. Some of the things that we're doing now are just things
like interviews like this or with Michael Beverly or some of the others. Swan Sona is a graduate
student in Harvard. He interviewed me last week on the book. And so we're doing some things like
that and posting that stuff for promoting that right now and explaining what's in the book
and things like that. So yeah, that's what we're doing. But we've got some other things. There's
the Risen Jesus podcast that's on Apple and Google and some other things. And we'll be adding
a whole lot more content on that that come from videos that we're putting in an audio format.
And I'll be starting to, pretty soon, I'll be starting to work on my next book. And
I've got another one that I'll be working on after that as well.
Awesome. Well, thank you so much, Dr. Michael, kind of for coming on. It's an absolute pleasure.
I've really enjoyed this. And we'll see everyone next time. Bye.
