They were interviewing Bart Dermot, so they were all in like a queue.
So Paul texts me and he says, I'm waiting to go in, I think I'm talking to Bart next.
Mike keeps blowing kisses at me.
And I said, I've told Mike, let's talk flirting with my fucking boyfriend.
So I messaged Mike and I was like, bitch, Paul told me that you're blowing kisses at him.
This book has all the answers, so it'll be there when you need it.
Okay, but I need it now.
Oh, well, it doesn't have all the answers.
God works the mysterious ways.
Okay, but what do I do when I need it?
Well, the book has all the answers.
Like, are you, what?
I've got more than, have you only had three rums?
I'm shitfaced.
Now, why that destroyed the concept of the soul for me?
How does the soul put a specific amount of sodium and potassium ions on either side of
a cell membrane and then get a mitochondria to produce ATP?
Welcome everyone to the Deep Drinks Podcast.
My name is Dave and tonight we have an amazing guest, Shannon Q.
She almost needs no introduction.
But if you were to introduce her, which I am doing now, you may know Shannon Q from The Lion,
The Atheist Experience, Truth Wanted, Paula Jia, MythVision, or her own channel,
or debating the likes of people like Darth Dawkins.
Debating the people who are not likes of people like Darth Dawkins.
Shannon has an honours degree in psychology, where she specialises in cognition,
perception and communication.
She has been, so this, so I hope this goes over well with you.
She's been described, such named as Evasive Interlocutor, the Giggle Girl.
Wide-eyed asshole, satanical Atheist, one who lies for money, and her personal favourite,
Green Head and Tifa Looking Bitch.
Her favourite word is fuck, so with that said, I would like to formally welcome
Shannon fucking Q for the Deep Drinks Podcast.
Thank you, thank you.
That might be the most comprehensive list anywhere on the internet of my Twitter handles.
Yeah, I went through, literally, because I was looking how do I find your Twitter handles,
like if you've done a name change, there's no way you can do it, as far as I know.
So I went through a year of your media images, and just read to see where you'd screen shot
on certain things, and you'd say, like, new Twitter handle or whatever.
So yeah, I did my work, because the hilarious.
Wow, that is an impressive amount of dedication to my
internet trolling.
Yeah, that's important.
Your internet trolling is both important.
The most important part of my activism is pissing people off on Twitter, yeah.
Yeah, for sure.
Also, so tonight, we were originally going to drink a certain type of rum,
but then I couldn't find a certain type of rum, and then you couldn't find that
certain kind of rum that you found out just today.
So it's actually really good, but so when, I remember when you first shot me a message,
you wanted to put forth your resume, and you just shot me a photo of your alcohol cover
that had all sorts of random spun alcohol.
That was my application, yeah.
Yeah, so that's great.
So tonight, we're drinking two different drinks, but what are you drinking?
I'm ashamed of myself, but I'm like, I don't even want to put it on camera.
Because I said we would drink rum, and the only rum that we had in the house was this bottle of
Picardi.
It's Paul's.
Paul drinks the crap rum, and I wanted some Florida canna, and I thought I had some here,
but I didn't, and I was at the store today because it's Paul's birthday next week,
and I got all the stuff for his birthday, and it just completely slipped my mind
while I was there.
I should get a bottle of Florida canna, and I got home, and I was like, no.
Well, when you originally suggested it, I was like, oh, this looks like a cool rum.
It's great.
I think I said that right, and I'm like, cool, cool.
And then I looked, and every website said it had it, but then they stocked it,
but none of them was in stock anywhere in Australia.
And what is this?
So yeah, Australia is dry on that specific rum, and I'm drinking this rum, and the reason
I got a nice bottle of rum is because I'm interviewing Thomas Westbrook soon,
and he has created his concoption drink that we're going to be drinking.
So I was like, we're going to be adding rum to another thing.
Might as well get a good rum.
So I did some Googling and got this one.
A good rum makes all the difference.
I'm very jealous of you right now for having a good rum.
So jealous, because I love rum, like love rum, and I'd like,
Bacardi, I don't even classify it as rum.
Rum-flavored alcohol, that's what Bacardi is.
So I'm not actually a fan of rum, but this rum, I know, I know.
I'm pouring myself a giant glass of this rum.
This rum, and I've only had a coffee today.
It's 11 a.m. for me.
You are dedicated.
11 a.m., okay.
I mean, not that I've not started that early before in my life.
Hey, it's part of the job, unfortunately, and after this,
I have some friends coming over.
So I'm just going to be ahead of them on the drinking.
Perfect.
Great.
Works perfect.
So something that you just said before is Paul's drink is Bacardi,
and people might not know that you're dating Paula Gia, right?
Yeah, I live in the same house with him and everything.
We've been together for four years.
Wow, that's cool.
How did you guys, can you go into how you guys met or involved?
Oh, yeah.
He was a YouTuber before me.
I never intended to even have a YouTube channel
or be involved in YouTube at all, actually.
But he was on a channel talking about going to the Creation Museum.
He was going there to see Ken Ham live.
And I was just kind of starting to have a Twitter even at that point in time.
It was back in like 2017.
And I saw, I was standing outside watching him talking about this,
and they invited people that had questions to come in.
So I, through Google Meets, went into this live stream
and just kind of asked him a question about what he was going to do when he got there.
And we started connecting that way and then started DMing over Twitter.
And then he found out that I had a background in psychology
because it's hard to talk to me and not find that out.
So we just kind of started talking from there
and formed a pretty close friendship.
And then several months later, he came for a visit
and we started dating.
We met, we literally met through YouTube.
That's so cool.
That's how we met.
That's so cool.
It's he fell in love with your brain.
And then before he fell in love with you.
I like to think so.
That's pretty cool.
So you've been an ITS activist for a while.
Like I think I first saw you either on Paula Gia's channel
or on the ITS experience.
So I guess, but I actually don't know your deconversion story
or like what kind of Christian were you?
Because I need to give ammunition to people who,
for people to say that you weren't a true Christian.
So if you could explain the type of Christian you were, yeah, exactly.
So if you could explain the type of Christian you were,
so you can give ammunition to people who can explain
why you weren't a true Christian, that'd be really good.
Yeah, for sure.
So I was an Anglican.
So I was raised in that faith.
And I described myself at a young age as competitively Christian.
So I, it's odd because I didn't even know that like
young Earth creationism was a thing until I was in my 20s.
That like evolution and all of that stuff never,
like it never conflicted with my faith from my perspective.
But growing up in the church, I was like in Sunday school,
I was in the choir.
I got confirmed early because you get confirmed in the Anglican church
into the church, right?
So usually you get confirmed when you're like in and around junior high school age.
I got confirmed at eight because I wanted to be an altar girl
because there were no altar girls.
There was only boys serving.
So I decided that I was going to do that because I wanted to be the best at it
and right up front serving God.
And yeah.
So I, I was very, very, very into church and very competitively Anglican
right up until probably like my late teens and early 20s.
Then I started, I didn't go to church as much then,
but I would have still considered myself very, very religious,
like very God fearing.
Um, like prayed all of the time still very much believed.
Then I started going to university and studying brains.
And that.
As soon as you said university, as soon as it went to university.
That raised some questions.
And on top of that, I had some, some relatively kind of like tragic traumatic events
happen in my life.
And when those life events took place, you know, as you do, when you're a person of faith,
you're, you're taught to kind of lean into your faith and turn to your faith as a way to kind of
like answer those questions and quell that trauma.
And I realized then that I'd never really read the Bible cover to cover start to finish.
So I thought, you know, like if I just really pour myself into it and start reading the Bible
cover to cover, like I know the answers are in there.
That's what I've always been taught and reading the Bible at the same time,
like in conjunction with going to university and studying these things that were giving me
questions, just gave me more questions and less answers.
And that kind of re traumatized me, right?
Because the place that I was told I needed to go to get the answers.
I found out not only are there not answers that just gives me more questions.
So now I'm going through trauma while I'm trying to deal with this doubt and
de-conversion. So it was like a whole clusterfuck.
But yeah, so yeah, I guess that's my story.
I don't have as interesting a story as many people.
I was never, you know, sort of fundamentalist.
I'm Canadian, so we don't have as much, you know, sort of Bible thumb thing, fire brand,
fires and brimstone preaching around here.
We do have some, but it's not as prevalent.
It doesn't permeate the society as much.
But yeah, so I was your run of the mill Anglican girl,
never younger, that sort of thing.
No, what do you said that actually made a lot of sense?
Because when you said that, like you were re traumatized trying to find the truth,
I can relate to that a little bit because I was similar in that.
I wasn't trying to go into the Bible to try and find the truth.
I remember that I, so I don't know if you know too much about my story.
I was a youth pastor at one stage and then I, Pentecost youth pastor,
I eventually decoverted him on agnostic atheists now, but
the situation was, I remember realizing that I wanted to get to the bottom of like the
creation versus evolution debate.
And I wanted to like, I was really into science, well, pop science, I guess.
And I was like, okay, I'm going to get to the bottom of this.
And then at least I will know why the evolutionists believe what they believe.
So I did, I started the investigation, I started this document called the objective
truth of origins, where I was going to like look at every piece of line of evidence I could.
And what I realized was that I couldn't go into that
investigation already assuming a verdict.
I had to actually, when I was investigating one piece of evidence or a study or something,
I had to remove as much bias as possible.
And I removed the perspective that God was in control of everything.
And God, it's all like the conclusion that would arrive to God.
And when I did that, the only reason I thought it was okay to do that was
because I knew that it would lead me to God anyway, right?
Because God was like, definitely real.
So therefore I didn't need to protect my faith anymore.
I didn't need to protect it.
And whenever I was investigating these things, I would go into, you know,
And then when you came up the other end, you could say, I did it completely unbiased.
And you would feel as though you had that intellectual integrity.
Yeah.
And so I started doing that.
And I started noticing cracks.
And I started noticing my theology and philosophy and stuff, life, ideas, worldview.
And I started noticing more and more cracks until eventually these cracks were like giant canyons.
I can say thank you to Arun Ra, Matt De La Hunty.
Like I can take a lot of people for that.
But mainly the studies that I was looking up.
But the thing that traumatized me a little bit is these were really concerning.
And so I'll go to my fellow Christians and I'll be like, hey, I'm really concerned about this.
And it was the non answers.
It was not even the non answers.
It was the dishonesty.
It was like, it was like they will, they would directly lie to themselves or to me.
They would, they like, and, and I was like, and it's not like I could go back.
You know, I mean, it's not like I could ever like go back into and like just pretend I didn't see that stuff.
I would just be lying to myself then.
So I'd go and talk to like Christians about it.
I'm like, but does this really make sense that Noah sailed around for a year on a boat?
Like, and then we're like, oh yeah, maybe God pop it out of the earth with animals after the flood and stuff.
And I'm like, oh my God, that, that then you're just adding to the Bible.
And yeah, so it was actually the part that actually hurt the most for me was realizing how dishonest
most people in the faith that I was in were or the faith was in general.
And so that was actually a really hard thing to deal with.
I'm sorry that you had to go through that.
It's just, it's that's such a common story too.
You said your story sounds a lot like Paul's story because he like, except for he didn't really go into,
I mean, you can talk to him eventually one day, but he didn't go in like to try to disprove it.
He went in because he was a graphic novelist and he was writing a book about dinosaurs.
And he was like, well, I should figure out what some of these evolutionists think about this stuff.
And he can never really objectively looked at it or looked at a period before because
he knew the Bible and the church had all the answers like, what was the need?
Right. Yeah.
And then when he looked into it, he was like, okay, so this actually makes sense.
Why does this make sense?
And he was, okay, well, I'll go look at the best people that have the best answers on our side.
And he looked at those and he was like, this is trash.
Holy shit.
Who are these people that I've been trusting?
Having like those trust issues is huge.
Like I had something similar happen to like, like I mentioned, I was going through some
traumatic stuff, right?
Like some bad family stuff had taken place.
Like there was a murder in the family and it was not good.
And I was trying to figure out how to cope and deal with that.
And our relationship was breaking up.
Like all of it, like people have stuff, right?
We all have stuff.
And as I was trying to figure all of that out and everything about my faith was unraveling
simultaneously, that causes you to spiral, right?
And so I turned to the people that you're supposed to turn to, right?
Like I turned to people who were in the faith who were leaders.
So like people who were pastors, people who were youth leaders, people who were deacons,
people who were like at the university campus and they were there to like be the pastor that
you turn to of your whatever denomination.
And I tried talking to several of them about like all of these different objections,
like the things that I was finding in the Bible that just didn't make any sense to me.
I would come to them with these questions that I still to this day think are really legitimate
questions and problems.
And they would make me feel like I was being silly or I was being over emotional.
They were talking about, they would try to get me to say, well, what's the reason you're asking
this question instead of addressing the question?
They would put it on me that like I was being unreasonable about the question.
They would give me something that I considered a non-answer and then accused me of being kind
of unreasonable for not accepting it or they would just give me an answer.
If I pushed hard enough, you'd eventually hit the, well, God works in mysterious ways.
Wall of obvuscation, which is just the same to me as saying that there is no way to reconcile
this, just accept it and move the fuck out and leave me alone.
And that, it's infuriating because they spend your whole life telling you,
this is where you can get the answers.
They convince you, they absolutely convince you that this is what you can count on.
And then when you need it and you hold it up to scrutiny in your time of need,
those people aren't there if you have any doubts about it.
Yeah, they'll hold up.
I think I even did this, I held up the Bible when I was preaching and said,
this book has all the answers or you know that this book is 100% true.
But then when you ask them like a question, like a really hard hitting question,
that is big, like, you know, Jesus was supposed to return on his disciples' lifetime or just,
you know, some big, big problems.
You'll get that one, what you just said, or you'll get the obvuscation, but you'll also get the,
to our two eyes, I always used to get was, well, we can ask him when we meet him.
So like, you know, like, wait and see.
Yeah, wait and see.
Or the other one was, don't worry about it.
Yeah.
Yeah, the other one was, if you had all the answers, there'd be no need for faith.
And in God wants us to have faith.
And it's like, okay.
Like, okay.
So you're saying it's better for me to not have knowledge about how to solve the circumstances
that I'm currently in.
But on one hand, you're saying, no, it's better for you not to have that knowledge,
because, you know, God doesn't want you to have that knowledge.
You'll just wait and see.
But on the other hand, this book has all the answers.
So it'll be there when you need it.
Okay.
But I need it now.
Oh, well, it doesn't have all the answers.
God works the mysterious ways.
Okay.
But what do I do when I need it?
Well, the book has all the answers.
Like, are you, what?
Yeah.
I remember, I love that, I love that loop.
It's funny that loop.
I remember the first time it happened really crazily.
When I first experienced the first hand, I was looking around the room like,
is everyone's hearing what this person's saying?
Like I was so perplexed.
It was about Halloween in Australia.
Halloween isn't big.
It's seen as demonic for a lot of Christians, like really demonic.
We, you know, I live with someone who used to live with a really strong fundamentalist
used to put the fridge in front of the door because he thought it would stop the demonic spirits
coming into the house.
Wow.
Weird stuff, right?
My wife's family used to shut off all the lights and, and then like,
wouldn't respond to the door if little kids came there because it was letting demons in
or if it was supporting the, the work of the enemy or something.
So we have a very different perspective than North America.
But, but I love Halloween, right?
Like, I think it's cute little kids can dress up of, you know,
I love watching the labyrinth.
So I'm okay with a little bit of scaring.
That's one of my favorite movies!
It's so good, right?
The day I fell in love with David Bowie was for a second.
Oh, yeah.
I think that and his last album were the two reasons I fell in love with David Bowie.
Oh, cool.
But, but I remember talking to someone and I said, and I was under the,
I was under the assumption at the time that the Christmas tree and most Christmas traditions
were pagan.
Now, I know Michael Jones is going to punch me in the nose if I say that.
He's a douche, he does that shit.
But, you know, I read the book, Pagan Christianity, I was pretty convinced of it.
So I was talking to someone and I sort of know how to do that.
I was talking to someone about it and I said, and they said, well, we know where the roots
of Halloween come from.
And I was saying it's evil.
And I said, well, yeah, it's Christmas time, we're sitting here at Christmas tree.
I said, yeah, we know where the roots of Christmas tree come from.
And then they said, yes, but we know what it represents now.
And I said, yeah, yeah.
So like for Halloween, for me, it's just like a fun time to dress up and get candy.
And then like, and then it would loop and go, yeah, but we know where that came from.
I'm like, yeah, like the Christmas tree.
And I'm like, yeah, but we know what that means now.
I was like, yeah, like Halloween and it looped like five times and I'm like, and I was looking
in the room like, what, how are you like rebooting in the, in between? Like what's, what's happening?
Like, I don't understand. Like, uh, so, um, yeah, it was, it was a, I just, yeah, that's,
that's probably the, the strongest time that I've experienced that like loop of like,
it has all the answers. It doesn't, it has all the answers. It doesn't, or, or, you know, or praying
like classic when it's praying, right? Like you pray, you get yes, no weight.
Yeah. And it's like, it's like weight. So you get the same results if you pray it's
with a jug of milk or a potato. Yeah. And it's like, yeah. So anyway.
Yeah. I think a lot of what being a Christian was to me, looking back, I think is to a lot of
people, if they're really willing to be honest with themselves internally is so subjective and
based on preference, like you, you, I don't want to say cherry pick, but you have a preference for
the things within the faith that align to your, um, tendencies, desires and moral system
as they exist. You know, with a little bit of help, obviously from, you know, some indoctrination and
potential social pressures, but yeah. And then you'll ignore or write off things that don't
align with that. So I think like your, your friend with the Christmas tree was saying,
well, this is the thing that I've reconciled and found my way to being okay with, but I'm not
currently okay with your thing. So, yeah, that's a good point. I haven't been able to reconcile
and be okay with your thing. That's apparently a bridge too far for me. Um, so when I'm saying,
yeah, I know where it came from. What he's probably saying or they're probably saying is,
yeah, I know where that came from and I reconciled it. Even though I know where
Halloween came from, I haven't been able to reconcile that. So the message he was transmitting to
you in that moment, I think was probably like, yeah, I reconciled this one. Like subjectively,
that one is okay with me, but your thing's not okay with me. Yeah. And I'm the arbiter of these
types of things as most Christians are and most people of many faiths are, I think,
in particular instances, because it's so open to interpretation, like any given text isn't
automatically imbued with some sort of knowledge that we can just, you know, strip directly out of
it verbatim. We imbue it ourselves with the context based on where we are at the moment
mentally and contextually and who's influencing us and what our baseline is. That's why there's
350,000 denominations, right? All of those disagreements. Yeah, yeah, it's crazy. There's,
um, do you ever, like, something I realized when I was first walking away from the faith is I
realized how little people give a shit about, excuse my French, people don't care. How dare
you fucking swear around me? People don't care about the truth. Like, and it's okay to be like
that, but I think that most people when you do like, day to day, when you talk to them,
they don't care about what's true or not or whatever. They just have their beliefs and then
they just kind of, they don't know how they arrive at them really, and then they just kind of move on
to life. Like, do you notice, did you notice that when you kind of deconverted? I think that people
care about what's true, or at least they like to think that they do.
Oh, I believe they like to think that they do, but I don't think they do.
Well, they believe that they already know what's true, right? So they trust that what they believe
is true, so that there's no need to investigate further. So I think maybe what you and I might
align on is that not everybody has the tenacity to follow through to its terminus, their intellectual
curiosity regarding something like a religion, for example, because they're sated in their existing
environment and externally supported, and it's safe, and they're reassured that it's true.
And in some cases, in many cases, they've done some investigating enough to satisfy themselves,
it clearly wouldn't be enough to satisfy you or I, because we're here, here we are,
but it was something that was satisfying enough for them that they could feel as though they were
holding it to be the truth, because I don't think that you can say, or that it would be fair to say
that people purposefully, because it seems like you might be saying that people purposefully
would want to hold false beliefs, that they knew were false and they just don't care,
and I don't think that's the case. Yeah, you see, I would have kind of agreed what you're saying,
that what essentially what you're saying is the nice, I'm saying people want to give a
shit about what they believe, and then you pass out my harsh terminology into like a very nice
reasoned example of what I think I'm trying to get at. So that's just, I don't know why,
so I've noticed something when I was like looking up at you is most people, like, well, not most,
sorry, not most people, but a lot of people have beef with you. I have no idea why. Why? Why do
people not, like, why do people like, I don't get it. Is that funny? I'm so easy to get on with
too. It's ridiculous. I am just very Canadian. I'm the most Canadian, and I have a decent,
like, disposition. So, like, I can take a fair bit, but I also, I'm not interested in anybody's
shit, right? So, I mean, I love having a good conversation and sussing out ideas, and I love
talking to people who are diametrically opposed to me, and working out, you know, better way to
have those types of dialogues. But there are some instances where you just can't have a conversation
with somebody, and many of those instances to me, like, what flicks my bitch switch is bigotry.
I don't have the time to, other people may, I don't have the time to mess around with bigots.
I have all day to tell bigots off. I will do that 100% of the time, but I don't have time to
reason with bigots. I just don't, I don't have the patience for it. Other people do,
that's great, good for them. I don't. I'll talk about ideas all day. But I think that that's
where a lot of it comes from, because I tend to come face to face with several of them
through Twitter or through hosting call in shows, or just, you know, appearing around,
and I tend to tell them off and then hang up on them because they can go fuck themselves.
So that leaves a bad taste in some people's mouths. Because they think that I should sit there and
reason with them. And I don't have time to give up, because there's another consideration, right?
Another consideration is most of the time I'm on exceptionally large platforms. And if I'm taking
the time, and it's usually a call in environment where I've got limited time, right? So there's
just a snippet of time that I have to have a conversation with this person. And there's also
another person involved in the conversation as well. So it's a three-way conversation, which
already is an ideal. Like you make the best of it, but it's not ideal if you really want to
suss out and work through a topic. So if somebody who's just there to spoke bigoted nonsense is
calling in, like about, you know, saying trans women aren't women, or saying that women shouldn't
have bodily autonomy, or like, you know, saying slavery was fine in the Bible, all that shit.
I don't, you would need a long form conversation to work through all of the things that are wrong
with that. And there's just not the time to reason with them. So all I would be doing is
giving them a platform for between two to 10 minutes to just on a sale, say their shit without
me having enough time to counter. Because one thing you'll find out as you're going through,
and I'm sure you found it already, is that it takes 300 times longer to debunk somebody's bullshit
than it does for you to just take through 30 seconds and say some bullshit. Like you have to do
all of the more, there's way more work on the back end of that, picking it apart to prove why
it's wrong than it takes for somebody to just say it. So when somebody calls in to be a bigot,
I'm not giving you my platform to do it. I do not have the time to explain to you why you're
wrong. I certainly don't have the time to reason you through it and have a good dialogue. So what
I would be doing is just allowing you to have this space to perpetuate those ideas. And you
don't get that from me. Other people might have more patience, but I fucking don't. I'm not your
daisy, call somebody else. So I think that annoys people. I think you're, I think you may be right
in some aspects. It's, I've been dealing with some really racist flat earthers recently. And I,
I knew that the person was a bad faith actor. Like they weren't, they weren't going to change
their mind. They weren't interested in the truth. They just had, they had a message and they were,
they were trying to get it out. So when I had that, they jumped onto a discord call with me and I just
basically, I acted in extreme bad faith as well. Like I just, I essentially made fun of them,
laughed at them, kind of like sent them on their way. They rage quit after 13 minutes of me just
laughing at the, whatever. I'm still on the, I'm still on the fence about whether that content
is like worth putting out. But at the same time, to engage with someone like that, you almost
tend to do it in private because their ideas kind of get out there. Like as soon as I put that video
out, I had a few people on my discord saying, well, actually, you know, the Jews do have a lot of them,
you know, power in the media. And I'm like, I'm like, I started, I started just banning people.
Someone joined the server and immediately after I banned someone, someone else. And I said,
I said, Hey, friend, the discord server. Hey, friend, how do you feel about the Jews?
That's a broad question. It's like, it's really very strange to for us in Australia is like,
we don't even, like, for me, like Jews aren't even like an, like an ethnic group that we kind of
see is like, like, I would see someone like, oh, you Jewish are cool. Like it would be like,
I've got Scottish heritage or I've got, it's not, it's not as like,
like, like aggressive as it is, it seems to be like in other countries, which is, which is good,
I think. But, but, but one of the things just touching back on one of the things you did say
about, like bigger, bigger tree when it comes to transgenderism and stuff, I think if I can play
absolute devil's advocate for the transfer, right, if I can like try and probably explain maybe where
they're getting some of their frustration from. And I don't, I'm not by any means, I'm not trans
perfectly, I love my trans people. But I think what happens is the issue, and I don't have an
answer to this, but there seems to be an issue when it comes to, if you, there's a whole spectrum of
ideas in the trans space, right, like how like, you know, prescribing kids medicine and blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah. And if it's the most part, I just believe we should do what the doctors say
that we should do, right, like, or whatever. And I'm very uninformed, as nothing, so I try and
stay out of it as much as possible. But the one thing that I noticed is, if you do have an opposing
view on anything to do with transgenderism or something, or if like, if you say like anything
that is contrary to the narrative around transgenderism, you will be called a transphobe and kind of
ostracized from that community. So it blocks down conversations from, from happening.
Where are you noticing that's happening? Like, where do you think that's happening? And where
are you? Oh, mainly, mainly, mainly on like online discourse and stuff. But just to, just to find
just to put a pin in that just quickly, because I need to get this last point out, because otherwise
it looks bad for me. But the point, the point is essentially, I think that is almost a necessity,
because there are so many bad faith actors that come in and ask questions, like that ask
questions that just provoke the audience. But then I think what's happening, there are people
who are very uninformed, and they come into a conversation wanting to literally, they've heard
some racist, transphobic ideology, and they're wanting to literally like ask a serious question,
and then they're getting branded as like a transphobe and told like, and like ostracized from
that community. And I'm worried sometimes, I think you have to do it, because it's hard, because I
think you have to do it, you have to ostracize these people, because most of them are bad faith
actors. And you have to just say like, fuck off with your transphobia, to stop barking in the
background. You have to say like fuck off the transphobia, because that's, I think that's the
best thing to do. But at the same time, I worried that that pushes them into the arms of the alt
right. Do you know what I mean? I get what you mean. The concern, if I'm understanding you
correctly, the concern is if somebody comes in and isn't a bad faith actor, but has, and is just
uninformed, and is, you know, potentially ignorant of the topic and has been, you know, imbued with
some bad ideas, and is legitimately asking, because they want to be better.
Somebody may assume they're a bad faith actor, because they look just like any other bad faith
actor that's, you know, Trojan horsing their way into communities to abuse people. So people
preemptively assume that they're transphobic, and then block them. And then that feeds a feedback
loop that that person now thinks, oh, okay, well, everybody was right about these, these leftists,
and their transgender agenda. And they are just canceling people and shutting everybody down.
And that, and that means that, you know, everybody was right about that.
The alt right is there with open arms saying, come here, brother.
Oh, yes, I know. We know what you feel like. Yes, they are bad. Okay. So I get, I,
I get what you're saying. I do get what you're saying. But the problem with that is, is that
that narrative is a narrative that's put forth by people who want to create that feedback loop,
right? That feedback loop only exists because these people are so consistently abused.
They're so consistently abused. And also, they don't owe an exploit. They don't owe anybody
an explanation for their existence. Yeah, they don't. That's wrong. That's wrong.
It's not their job to explain to every person, ignorant and well intentioned or otherwise,
um, why their existence is okay. Cause it's actually none of their business anyway.
The only reason that it's popular in discourse is because there's people who are bigoted against
them making it popular in discourse, stirring up all of this nonsense and then pointing people
in their direction. And then when they inevitably get just fucking exhausted and need to protect
themselves because they're constantly being hurled abuse and it's almost impossible to discern
who is or isn't a good faith actor and they need to preserve themselves. Cause at the same time,
you need to remember that also their rights are under attack on a massive scale. And then
they get blamed because well, if you don't just swing your door wide open so that people,
like everybody can shoot whatever arrows they want at you because there might be a chance that
one or two of them actually may learn something. I mean, that's, that's not a fair expectation
to have of a human being that well, if you, if you don't allow this to happen to yourself,
then it's your fault. People are turning to, people are becoming biggest, like people have
their own individual autonomy, making their own decisions. And also there's all kinds of information
available that they can be directed to. They don't need to interact directly with these people
because they don't know that they're, they're just trying to live their lives. They didn't want
to be activists, just existing made them activists because people are attacking them. That's not,
that's not a fair expectation. I know. And this is what I'm saying is it's, it's a frustrating
situation because you, you would agree that there's probably some damage in having to do,
but there's no other option. Like it's like, it's almost like,
like shutting down any discourse, let's say one in a hundred people are good faith actors and
they're just trying to get to the bottom of something, shutting down, shutting it down
for the sake of the 99 causes damage that one person because they might get pushed into the
right. But you have to do it because there are so many bad faith actors that come in who would,
who are trying to push like really hurtful narratives. And these like, I feel really sorry
for, it seems to me, it seems to me that the, the, the transgender community is the new,
like let's attack kind of group, right? Like in the 70s, in the 70s, well, I guess in Australia
anyway, in the 70s and the 80s, homosexuality was the big like, you know, like that's the one
that everyone like had problems with. And, and now for the most part, I'm glad that we got same
sex marriage in Australia. I'm glad that, you know, people like I, I'm a LGBT ally. I'm glad
about that. But it's not now people have shifted from LGBT issues to like now transgender is the
next thing that like all the boomers are angry about and want to like, you know, don't, don't
understand. And it's so frustrating that there are groups of people that have to live like this,
like live under this, like, I can't imagine what it's like to have to defend your, your
personhood, like almost every day. But that's crazy. That's crazy.
And like to have the onus thrown on you too, that like, if you, if you are not just, you know,
constantly open to defending yourself to anybody who comes across you and has questions about why
you are who you are and why you deserve to exist without being interfered with.
Could you imagine? Could you imagine? And then, and then having people say, well,
if you, if you go into self preservation mode, then that's you sending the message that everybody
was right about you. So either get on, grab your shield and your sword and start defending yourself
for, you know, it's, it's your fault that people are going to consistently be shooting arrows at you
if you don't constantly have a shield in your hand. Like that's, it's not fair. It's just not
fair. And I get the point. I really do that there are good intentioned people, but there are also
resources out there that are so readily available to direct them to that they can actually, if they
did give a fuck and were well intentioned and were honest interlocutors, they can do their own
research. They're so much available. Like, and there's so many people who are willing to direct
you to resources. You can read like people don't owe that to you. If this section ends up in the
final interview, I will link to a bunch of resources in the description. So if anyone's
actually interested in learning about transgenderism and those issues, they can look at the resources
in the description. So because I think it's, it's important to when there's so much harm that's been
caused to a certain community, you should be very well versed before you even begin to
you know, think about your opinion about a certain matter. You should be very well educated in those
things. Totally, I hope it does make it in because it's an important message to
spend on people. And enjoy your comment section because I'm here talking about the trans community
and if there's anything that I know, that makes for a real interesting comment.
Oh, great. That's good. And yeah, I'll just be blocking a bunch of people again. So be good.
I'm currently, I'm currently, I'm currently, if I'm currently blocking a lot of not blocking,
but like muting a bunch of racist like anti-Semitic anti-Semitic people, the only people I'll let
pass in my comment sections are people that are so stupid that it makes their message look bad.
So someone, someone, I did this video where I, um, I, I said the name of every single God,
it took me four and a half hours. I read out the name of every single God, um, in one go.
And yeah, it was kind of exhausting. Yeah, it was. And I was such a purist that I wouldn't let
myself get up and get a glass of water. So I had this little glass was like sipping and
moving down again to my throat was following your own spit. Yeah, I didn't have any spit. I was so
like, and by the end, by the end, I was saying the word saint, but I was saying slash because
I was so disorientated and just like, just dead. But it's kind of cheating too. Cause I said like,
you know, Mahalababa, the, the African God of blah, blah, blah. Like, so like I would say,
like the description as well. So I guess it'd be less if you didn't say the description of
what God it was, but it took four and a half hours. And someone said, um, this white supremacist,
I'm, I'm pretty sure the white supremacist from how they're commenting and stuff into
semantic dude started saying, um, I believe in the one true God, all these other gods are fake.
And I said, which God? I said, I don't know. And I said, he goes, the one true God. And I said,
yeah, which one, which one? I don't understand what you mean. I'm telling you, I believe in God.
I'm like, yeah. So which one of the one of the, the $4,000 I read out or whatever, like, yeah,
which one is it? And he's like, I'm not understanding your question. I'm like, I know you
want buddy, but like, I'm leaving this comment. I didn't want to jump into, uh, neuroscience.
Okay, I'll get another drink then. Let's see how I do on two glasses of run talking about science.
Um, well, actually we do have, okay, I didn't know there was going to be a test.
Well, actually, I actually have another label of neuro anatomy.
I have, I have another test for you and I'll let you choose. I'll let you choose, um,
which one you want to do. Do we want to dive into the neuroscience and conscious discussion?
Or do we want to leave that and first do, because we will do it still. Okay. What I call the rapid
fire checkmate atheist Q and A. So what that is, is I'm going to give you, I'm going to give you,
I'll give you three minutes. I'll give you three minutes and I'm going to read out questions
and you're going to see how many you can get through, um, of like the classic, I'll give you one.
Oh, I am not good at being succinct. This is going to be awful.
You've got to, you've got to just give like the quickest answer. So for example, um, uh,
like it'll be like, um, um, I'll give you one, like evolution is just a theory. And then you've
got to like go, like you've got to like give a quick answer and then get to that. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. So theory means that's great. Yeah, that's exactly. Yeah. Perfect answer. Perfect answer.
So which one do you want to start with? Do we want to leave the rapid fire for after we've
had a bit more alcohol or do we want to jump into the neuroscience? Now I'm curious about the rapid
fire. All right, let's do the rapid fire. Okay. I'm curious now. Okay. So I got three minutes.
I'm going to get a, um, time ago. Jesus Christ. Three minutes per question.
Usually isn't enough for me. I never shut the fuck up. All right. So just so you know,
there are 13 questions. Um, some of them are easy. Some of them are hard. Is this a competition?
Did anybody, did anybody make it through all 13? It might be, it might be, but to be honest,
um, I was running out of like, I mean, I'm sure there's more, but it was hard to Google.
God. I'm not going to say anything. Okay. So these are the checkmate atheist rapid fire
questions. Okay. So you have three minutes. Um, and, uh, I'll set the first one and I'll start it.
You say you don't believe in God. How do you explain sunsets?
These are real questions. The world turns and we go to the other side. Okay.
Where do you get your morals from? Uh, my cognition and general societal mores.
Why, uh, why do you hate God? Uh, because you took everything from me.
Um, don't seashells on the top of mountains prove Noah's Ark?
Not if you believe in plate tectonics. What about the second law of thermodynamics?
Uh, it depends on, uh, not a closed system, but I don't know. I'm not a physicist.
If we came from monkeys, why are there still monkeys?
Because there are cousins, the same reasons, the same reason that if you came from your
grandparents, you can still have, you know, aunts and uncles and cousins.
Uh, what if you're wrong?
Then I, I don't think I am.
But what if you're wrong? It's Pascal's wage.
Well, if then, then God is as much of a dick as people say he is, then I guess.
You just have to have faith.
No, thank you.
Where are the transitional fossils?
They were in the ground. So there's probably still more there,
but we dug a bunch of them up and most of them are in museums, books and on the internet.
Evolution is just a theory.
Yeah, exactly. Uh-huh.
If you know what theory means, and that's a good thing.
So, so is gravity.
Okay, cool.
Relating to the Big Bang theory, where did the exploding star come from?
It wasn't a star that exploded.
So I don't really feel like answering questions that make no sense.
That's a real, that's a real question.
We have only, we have found only one Lucy.
When, when we have found, when we have, sorry.
I want that time now.
Oh my gosh.
We have found one Lucy.
Um, why have we only found one of what, why is there more than one of everything else?
We found many Australopithecus anphorensis, which is what Lucy is,
that Lucy just refers to the first one.
So read more books.
Oh, okay.
The Bible says that true Christians will be hated and persecuted by the world.
Doesn't your content prove this point?
What?
Point to anything hateful that I said about true Christians.
All you guys are constantly telling me the people I'm talking about
aren't the real Christians.
You're the real Christians.
And that's why it doesn't apply to you.
So pick a fucking lane, I guess.
So you've passed it.
You've done all 13 questions in two minutes, but yeah, yes.
Good job.
Good job.
That's so good.
Oh, jeez.
It was somebody, some of these I was writing down and I was like,
I was trying to like fix the grammar or make the argument a little better for them.
And I was like, no, just put down what they asked.
What was one of them?
If we came from monkeys, why are there still monkeys?
I think for them to be, are there, why are there still monkeys?
Anyway, why still are there monkeys?
Why still monkeys?
And why still monkeys?
If we monkey, why still monkey?
Yeah, exactly.
It's a fun one.
Hey, cool.
So well, you did well.
Great job.
Rapid fire.
We'll see when we watch back what your definition of well is.
Checkmate atheists.
That's right.
Destroy atheism destroyed.
Atheism destroyed.
I should start labeling my videos that like,
like, you know how you can see this really like,
rare footage destroys atheism or like something like,
you're like, it's not rare.
It's on YouTube now.
It's not there anymore.
Anyway, sorry, I've gotten a bit delirious from the alcohol.
Let's jump back into the conversation or start the
conversation around neuroscience and consciousness.
So I don't know anything about this.
I'd love for you to inform me.
And I also wanted to talk a little bit about like,
I was hoping you could inform me on like,
how consciousness works in regards to like,
obviously there's a hard problem of consciousness,
but you're a physicalist, right?
So you believe that it's probably most likely coming from
the brain.
Am I correct?
Okay, cool.
So I have some, an uncle who I sent your video and he's a
non-dualist, essentially.
He believes that's the Eastern thought.
And funny enough, he said that you were a very,
you seem very switched on and great person and you,
you like, he really liked you, which is good.
So you don't have to, yeah, not everyone hates you.
I need more of those.
Yeah.
But I'm going to try to do my best to also
posit some other ideas around souls and awareness,
but first I'd like to first touch on neuroscience
and consciousness.
So, hit me, give us a crash course in, in.
Neuroscience and consciousness.
Well, I'm not, you know, ostentatious enough to think
that I have all the answers.
There still is always going to be a problem.
Well, I shouldn't say always, but there still is currently
a problem, like, which is what, like David Chalmers calls it
the hard problem of consciousness.
And that problem is like, why is there anything that it is
like to be any individual piece of matter?
And we're undeniably comprised of matter.
So why is it that there is something unique it is to be
like us and not, you know, my cell phone or, you know,
this kind of Kola with no particular brand name.
So that, that is always a thing.
I don't find it as difficult to reconcile the more I look
into how the brain works and how brain regions operate
and the more I read and listen about the brain.
The less that seems like an issue to me, well, I mean,
it's still an issue, but the less I feel like it's ultimately
insurmountable and the more it seems trivially silly to me
deposit other things because we can so clearly and easily
demonstrate things like localization of function.
And we know like right down to the microscopic level,
what causes any individual neuron to fire and then what chemicals
that neuron is attached to what brain regions it's interconnected
with and then, you know, what that firing is going to ultimately
result in.
And we know if we remove neurons or remove regions, what functions
or parts of cognition and perceptual and perceptual abilities
we're going to either augment or lose.
So it doesn't make sense to me for it to be anything but the brain.
It seems to be multiplying entities to me from a hypothesis building
perspective to deposit anything else.
And I don't think that it has any knowledge content
because you can't really study it either.
So saying, well, it's some sort of, you know,
thing external to us that's interacting with our brain.
Like, how would you quantify that in any meaningful way?
It's just an assertion to me.
And then there's the interaction problem.
I have a problem with panpsychism because there's this coalescence problem.
So yeah, sorry, I don't know.
Go ahead.
I'm writing notes because a little bit because of the alcohol,
but mainly because I want to remember questions to ask you because
so did you start as a Christian believing in the soul?
100%. Absolutely.
Okay.
And I take it you don't believe in the soul now, right?
I don't even think it's possible.
Yeah, that's because you don't have a soul.
And the Christian conceptualization of it, I don't think it's possible.
Okay.
Interesting.
Interesting.
So can you give me a...
So what caused you to change your opinion with the soul to...
Like, was there something that happened?
Is something you learned in neuroscience that you...
ATP synthase production in any individual neuronal mitochondria,
um, opening sodium on potassium ion channels on the neuronal cell membrane to allow transmission
through diffusion back and forth in order to create the action potential for any individual
neuron to fire to release the neurochemicals required for us to even have this conversation.
So that's what did it for me.
Yeah.
So I obviously understand all of that, but for my audience...
Yes, I know.
I know this is a redundant conversation for you.
Yeah, yeah.
Like, I'm a little bit bored, to be honest, because I've heard a little bit before.
In fact, you know, so for my audience...
That's what did it for me, though.
So thought in studying Broca's and Fornichie's area, which had to do with speech production
and Phineas gauge, but this is this was the nail in the coffin for me.
Um, so everything that happens in our brain happens due to neuronal firing, right?
So a neuron in your brain is like a teeny tiny cell, and that teeny tiny cell has a bunch
of axons that come out of it.
And those axons are like long strings that are wrapped in an insulated material called myelin,
and they communicate with one another in your brain through electrochemical means.
So in order for them to fire, there needs to be like a mild electrical signal that's called an
action potential that initiates their firing.
And when they fire, they send a signal down that axon that goes to the synapse.
And the synapse is where one axon, like the end of an axon, like the dendrites,
will connect to through like a synaptic cleft, another neuron, and they'll send a little chemical,
like a serotonin or a dopamine or an oraphanephrine or like multiple types of little chemicals
that happen in your brain that each do different things to another neuron.
And that's how all of the little neurons in your brain talk to one another so that we can do things
like move and operate our eyes and, you know, taste things and feel things.
There's neurons even in our skin, right?
We have things called nociceptors that are in our skin that are also neurons that are like
longer that go into our spine.
But that's how we experience and feel and think of everything, right?
All of those, we can track that happen through neuronal firing.
And we can augment that through drugs and stuff.
But in order for that neuron to fire, it needs to have that action potential.
So we're back to the action potential, which is what creates the electrical impulse
for that neuron to fire to release the chemicals to start that chain reaction so that your brain
and your brain is doing that billions of times a minute, right?
Like it just lights right up.
In order for that to happen, there needs to be a specific concentration on either side of the cell.
So inside the neuron and outside the neuron, there needs to be a very specific concentration
of sodium and potassium ions.
And if that concentration reaches a specific threshold, and the mitochondria,
and it's because the neurons like any other cell, it has a mitochondria inside of it.
If that mitochondria produces a chemical called ATP, that ATP,
what, like once it reaches a threshold, that mitochondria will produce a chemical called ATP,
and that'll open a channel, and that channel allows the sodium and potassium ions,
once they reach that threshold, to pass back and forth between the cell membrane.
And when that happens, it creates the action potential for that electrical impulse to tell
that cell to fire and create a signal.
Now, why that destroyed the concept of the soul for me is because if we know that that neuronal
firing is what causes everything, it's what causes movement, it's what causes sensation,
it's what causes perception, it's what causes thought, we know all of these things.
How does the soul put a specific amount of sodium and potassium ions on either side of
a cell membrane and then get a mitochondria to produce ATP at any given time?
So it's like you'd have to imagine literally a soul physically moving things.
Is that what you're saying?
Yeah, like it would need to have little sodium and potassium ion tweezers and go, okay, well,
now we want to think about Jesus and move them all through the brain.
And that would need to be happening at such a rapid fire pace throughout the entirety of the
brain, the soul would need to be able to do this, that it seems to me that it would be
perceptible through things like MRI, like you would literally see, or it would need to be,
or a soul would need to be able to pop these things into and out of existence materially
in our head. Neither one of those seem plausible to me. So how does a soul exactly interact with
the brain? I think so many people look at the brain and they just think of it as, you know,
the soul, the brain just feels stuff. They don't look at it down to the like the very
finite minutia of the material processes that are actually taking place. So it seems plausible
that a soul's probably doing stuff, right? Because your brain, it's like, maybe it just,
you know, gives you a feeling and a feeling is something that's not quantifiable. Well,
a feeling kind of is at least locatable. We know the brain region that's going to cause it,
and we know that those neurons need to do fire in order to elicit it. That's a thing that happens
materially in the physical world. And it's like, it's similar to like when, you know,
someone would die and then it's clear, like someone's, someone's there and then they die,
and then it's like they're no longer there. From everyone else, like, it's like he was here,
or she was here, and now she's not here. And it's like, it's very, it's very easy to jump to the
thought that there must be something inside them that is left because they're not here anymore.
They must be gone. So like, you can see how like these ideas create ideas like souls or like these
experiences create things like souls and stuff, because it's an easy way, or the best way at
the time to try and explain why this person was doing something, and then now is not doing something,
they're gone now. But so in regards to like, let's think about Jesus and, you know,
what, what is the, what is the naturalist perspective of the physicalists or the neuroscience
perspective of what's actually causing that let's think about Jesus like is there is there
so so someone might say the soul is turning on all those switches right to think about Jesus
or think about something um what is the naturalist why is that happening like why is that happening
in the first place confluence of things so it's predisposition like there's there there's
aspects of neuro anatomy that are absolutely predisposition genetically there's aspects that
are related to your current contextual environment there's aspects that are related to your past
environment because your brain is like it's a it's a pattern producing and recognizing machine
right there we form memories so that we can formulate better ways to do things by comparing
what were our current circumstances against previous circumstances and measuring outcomes so
the past also influences whether or not you are going to be thinking about Jesus in the present
your diet affects your brain more than you might realize like there's a reason what we're drinking
alcohol right now the reason it makes us feel a certain kind of way is because it's impacting
our brain so that's going to impact our memory of this we may have a memory of this that
is it's better than it otherwise might have been because we're both eliciting a pleasurable
response when we were at we may have hated each other otherwise we don't know right but
this is a thing like what we imbibe also has an impact especially when you consider that a lot of
the things that you eat actually help to formulate a lot of the neurochemicals like tryptophan actually
is a like which you find in a lot of things like like milk and turkey and stuff like that
actually is a huge huge component in producing your endogenous serotonin in your brain so your
diet affects things like that so i don't think it's as simple as just saying well you have the type
of brain because people want to look at it i think and think that okay well your brain is x-way and
therefore it's going to produce y thing and we should be able to predict that reliably but the
problem is that you live in a very fluid and dynamic reality where you can't always control
what you're exposed to what other people are going to say to you what other people are going to do
to you what what perceptions are going to be presented in front in front of you how those
are going to interact with your previous perceptions your current mind state at that point in time
like whether or not you're hungry whether or not you're sad whether like all of those things
feed into what you think about at any given moment it's incredibly dynamic and complex
and beautiful and amazing and interesting and fascinating process um that you can't just say
well you think of jesus because you were exposed to church and it's just that simple no for any
individual person it could be like it could be myriad other things that you're not aware of right
i've heard the hypothesis that maybe it was derrick from myth vision i was watching the
interview that you guys did where paul was um paul was persecuting christians and they were standing
so much up for their faith and stuff and he was killing them or whatever and um that caused him
to have that when he had that that seizure um on the road to Damascus or what we can assume is a
seizure or something that he saw jesus because that was what his brain did uh could be an idea
it could be a guilt induced hallucination yeah it could be it could be is um but i mean we don't know
but no you'll never know you're just positing something that you could never know yeah yeah
and that's what we do here yeah that's right it's um it's what is it's almost like weather like
where weather is like there's a billion trillion because so many variables to like we can tell
generally where like it's it might rain in this location there's a likelihood it might rain but
we have no idea about how many raindrops will fall where that'll fall like all these things
because there's too many love that analogy yeah that is a really good analogy yeah i've not heard
that before but i love that and i may love i may love it to rum yeah so i'll steal that i'll give
you credit for it though when i use it oh awesome that is that's great because by the same token
like one individual thing um could change that too like you could say like i've got a very clear
prediction on the path this like hurricane or rainstorm or whatever is going to take and there
could be a forest fire somewhere else that ends up interacting with it right and then it changes
the trajectory of the things that you were anticipating like there's there's so there's so
much nuanced minutiae and and so many simultaneous interactions and so many things outside of your
control that impact you externally that attempting to just it's it's almost silly to think that you
could point to like any one like little pinpoint of the brain and say well this is that this is
the place the soul resides or whatever because it's this content this constantly interacting
interwoven matrix of incredibly dynamic and constantly moving components that are always
changing based on inputs outputs environmental factors it's it's ever evolving and constantly
in motion and never it never stops but people want things in this tight little package and
i just trying to write it all off to a like a soul just does such a disservice to me and it ignores
like that that is us and knowing more about it than we do now is like so imperative and beautiful
and important because it is us and distracting from it by arguing about why it isn't
because this thing that i can't demonstrate that i can maybe find some philosophical evidence for
if i try hard enough but even that would be refutable just distracts from how fascinating
and beautiful and wonderful and interesting and important that is so much so that it drives me
a little bit bonkers really to be honest with you but is it almost like is it almost like so with
the weather we can predict large things like we can predict it's probably going to rain here
right we can predict it with a certain inaccuracy and so is it like if we cut out this section of
the brain this probably will happen here like look at like a facious are an amazing example of that
i thought you said erasure like the band that sings that um no no aphasia
obviously i don't know what you're talking about aphasia so aphasias so
how do i explain aphasia so i got something about erasure now so there's two areas in your
brain called brokas in borne keys area and they help you understand and process speech
they're usually and they're and they're lateral they're only on one side of your brain
it's one of the only regions that's really like that that we know for certain and they're usually
on your left hand side one of them is in the temporal lobe and one of them's like really
close prefrontal i think brokas is really close prefrontal and warne keys is towards the back of
the temporal lobe um and it's usually contra and we're contralateral right so if you're right
handed it's probably going to be on your left hand side because that's your dominant side of your
brain if you're left handed it's probably going to be on the right hand side because that's going
to be the dominant side of your brain uh so for most people's on the left hand side now if you
damage borne keys area um your ability to process speech just becomes just basically
like not like you're you're not going to make any sense when you're talking to people like these
a phase like you and predictably so like a hundred percent of the time if you damage this specific
area that's the thing that's going to happen so we we know that for certain for certain for certain
we know that if we um damage specific areas of your prefrontal lobe like your ventral lateral
prefrontal cortex which is like on the bottom side of your prefrontal cortex we know that you're
going to probably become more aggressive because that's part of the brain that helps to integrate
emotional responses into information processing and decision-making so you're going to kind of like
bypass the empathetic component of your decision-making processes and maybe be a little bit more risk
taking and aggressive because you're not comparing it against previously negative or positive
emotional experiences and you're acting more on impulse like we can predict a lot of these things
not just you know from a processing perspective and like a perceptual perspective but from like a
behavioral perspective we know that there's certain things that are going to happen if we
affect different regions of the brain in different ways right i've heard i've heard stories about like
people like killing their family members or something and then they did an autopsy on them and found
there was a tumor pressing on that part of it like their personality switched over a few months and
then they ended up committing some horrible crimes and it was because well we can hypothesize it was
because of the tumor pressing on a certain part of the brain which is so weird to me if it almost
feels like um like a frankincense monster where it's like you know stick nail here put electric in
here and does thing like it just seems so well i think the weather analogy is actually good because
i think it's it's like you can't oh it's great i'm so smart you are no i'm i'm absolutely i love it
i'm jealous i didn't think of it myself but yeah no it's that's great that's really good um
yeah yeah i do have a just just a quick aside i need to know this okay um i left handed people
just trying to get attention because like so and he hates attention so grow up they should you know
grow up i don't think it's 2020 it's 2022 all right you should grow up i think there's some actual
efficacy to the science behind people people having dominant hands yeah seems to be the case
um so just to also so that was a little derail i'm gonna derail us even more but i'm gonna try
and bring us back to a conscious party but is is it is it possible that okay so so would you say
you're a determinist oh yeah i think so probably yeah yeah yeah so so am i um how does that work then
i have an answer and if you don't have an answer don't make one up like just so you don't have an
answer i don't i just okay but no no but in regards to like free will right if being a determinist
like how how do we punish someone for a crime if they had no other option but to commit that crime
i don't i don't i think that that's a weird way to frame it because saying that you had no other
option but to commit that crime means that in the time that it took place you didn't have a choice
and you didn't choose to do what you did um and that you objectively did choose to do what you did
just saying that that was that was bound to happen given all of the variables in the universe
coalescing in that moment um doesn't negate the fact that that person made a choice and also
the fact that all of those environmental components continue on forward in time
means that seeing the impact and feeling the consequences of that and seeing what that
punishment is like for that person is going to have ripple effects on to the future because
it's going to influence and add to um the the perceptions that people have going forward
uh about that crime and also that person especially if you believe in some sort of
rehabilitation as opposed to just strict justices punishment fuck this guy like if you believe
that rehabilitation is possible then that is a component of the punishment in order to make
that person a better person means that you're going to continuously inject more influences
into the interactions in their life that are going to make them better and hopefully teach them
and others why it's wrong and learn from it so i i i don't see that as a problem i see it as a
cop out that people use because they think it's a gotcha so that they can say oh we have libertarian
free will because if we didn't have libertarian free will just just couldn't exist check me
theus and i think that that's um i don't i don't know what argument yeah i don't know what
libertarian free will free will free will means um i'm not as smart as i thought i thought i
thought it was a second ago but um my where i land with this and um correct me when i'm wrong
i believe that that free will is an illusion so we have to act as if act as if free will exist
like i can't just be like well free will doesn't exist so it's not punching holes in the wall
behind me i'm not i'm not gonna do that like i i i don't want holes in the wall so i'm not gonna
punch holes in the wall right right or something i don't know why i chose that example that's kind
of weird the rum it's the rum so um gets me aggressive ruined your life yeah um so but if i
was to imagine like you know a rock falling down a hill i don't know if you've heard this analogy
and like if it rolls down the hill if we know every single variable like the wind speed the
things that's going to collide with the friction of its surface the um gravity scale all those
kind of things we can predict with 100 certainly exactly where it's going to land let's ignore
quantum randomness for a second because i know that there's like you know let's just pretend that
doesn't exist for a second okay in a world without quantum randomness or whatever like someone says
our particles pop in okay well that's what i'm talking about so like we could predict it going
down the hill like right and you could you could run a million times over and it would land in the
same spot my understanding of brains and i'm totally willing to be correct on this is that
it's essentially a much more complex version of a rock and a hill um and there's just a million
things and everything around us is environmental um and where i landed with the whole how do we
get off on punishing people or for things like that is i think that we i think that this is
that that people don't have free will
necessarily but we have to act as if they have free will in order to keep a functioning society
going so like we we have to let go okay like you know like the the the situation in the
universe determinism leads us to know that you did that horrible thing but we have to act as if
you had free choice in order to because otherwise if we just the alternative is like society is
almost pushing back against nature right it's like it's building houses so we get out of the
wind at some creating law so we don't so we can you know keep good people safe and bad people
i'm like in prison or whatever or rehabilitate things so we built we build these things pushing
against nature and i would put determinism almost in that in that but but society is one big
fast in a way it's one big like non thing i can't point to anything in like the natural world and
say that is society it's a subjective thing that we've built on top of like like you know people
say survival of a fittest when they're talking about like refugees or whatever like coming to
australia which isn't even what it fucking means yeah i know i know and it's like it's like we
shouldn't we shouldn't be designing society on survival of a fittest we should be designing
especially since that happens on the species level also motherfuckers not the individual level
yeah and it's it's annoying too because it's like it's like we don't design societies when
survival of fittest we actually society is is is a pushback against the harshness of
nature and reality and things like like we put sunscreen on so we don't get skin cancer from
the the thing that literally gives this planet life like there are things that we do to negate
natural like to negate things and make things more comfortable for us in a subjective way
yeah i hope i'm making sense i'm gonna look like that's insightful actually that's insightful i like
i like the way that you're thinking about that yeah because yeah no i like that i like the rock
down the hill analogy because the rock has no choice but to move down the hill but that doesn't
mean that you would like you wouldn't if you saw it barreling towards a child and had the opportunity
to stop it that doesn't mean that you wouldn't be like oh well that's just rocks just gonna rock
like you know what i mean like you still have to understand that you know if you have a way of
preventing yeah i don't yeah and no i like i like the you know i like the pushing back against nature
too that's interesting
well i'm also like looking at things from that perspective because i think like with
conversations about free will and conversations about morality and i feel the same way about
conversations about the soul i think they so distract from the material reality that we're in
that we end up talking about the wrong things we get all tied up in the debate over whether you
know theism or atheism is true instead of us focusing in on like the material facts of the
matter like so so far as we can tell we're in charge of morality so far as we can tell we
probably don't have free will and so far as we can tell the brain is what's responsible for us
being us if we could all instead of arguing about whether or not that's the case focus in on those
three things like we would function a lot better and have a lot better understanding of what's
going on probably operate better together and be much better informed but instead we're consistently
distracted by this constant argument about no it's actually not science it's religion it's god
it's god it's god it's god okay well that has no information content to me and nothing that tells me
fucking sweet fuck all about the material reality that we're living in what would what would help
me actually is if we had a conversation i'll grant you your god sure god's real fine can
can we fuck off of that now just pretend he's not for a second so that we can talk about the
reality that's in front of us instead of focusing on that instead of making that the focus and then
we can maybe figure some shit out and be better as a society as a species as a world yeah yeah
i know i i remember that's similar to when we when the first the same sex marriage plebiscite
was coming around Australia Australia was voting on whether or not um lgbt members were could get
married and have the status of human beings um so we were um could you imagine they're all daxity
the absolute temerity of those people we were really deciding should they be happy or should
they not be happy for no reason anyway so we we were doesn't make us happier knowing that they're
yeah and i was always on the precipice of my faith at the moment at that time and i remember asking
a bunch of christians like okay let's we have theological problems sure like there's there can
be theological problems whatever right but can we just talk about the like the um like the real
world material problems and then when i did that that's when i noticed a lot of that that's the
other thing i noticed a lot of like dishonesty around that there would sites there would site like
remember this one pastor who was so well respected in our community i used to counsel me and he said
he started quoting the gay manifesto and what's the gay manifesto do you know what that is
no but it sounds awful it perked my eyes up because it's a it's a it's a satirical piece from the 80s
like a joke and he quoted it as if it was like a real like a committee of the all the gays got
together and decided like what what what meant to be gay and we pointed this out to him like hey
this is a satirical piece it's not real and this guy's like oh is that one that like the
an activist did it to like prove a point that what people think i think is like it's so satirical
that if it actually happened it would be this ridiculous yeah and they actually bought yeah
that hook line and sinker and oh my god okay and then they were quoting it and everyone was like
thanks for showing the truth blah blah blah and we pointed this out to this person multiple times
they saw the messages they replied to them and they kept using it they knew what they were doing
and they did it anyway and i was like because it supported their narrative and i'm like you slimy
piece of shit like you're causing real harm to to people now and like based on like you're not
uninformed you're informed now and you're still choosing to ignore the fact that it's satirical but
anyway getting distracted a little bit um have more room that'll help oh jeez it helps me every
time and i'm really good at staying on topic it's my specialty being succinct and staying on topic
that's what i'm known for i've i've like drifted off into a million subplots in my head and i've
even taken taken notes and i do not know um where i was going to go with that so i'm just going to
pivot to one of the notes here okay with the hard problem of consciousness you know how people say
consciousness is like the opposite of what it's like to be a rock right like they'll say something
like that like i feel therefore i am conscious right i think therefore i am pan psychist will
absolutely eat them alive on that though depends on your philosophy though right maybe i'm a pan
psychist right because i don't know what that is maybe you can inform me you it's uh it's i'm reading
philip okay if you if you want to read up on it more i would suggest a philip goff i can't i don't
know how to pronounce his last name it's either goff or joff um uh it's called galileo's error
i'm not sure how i think about pan psychism but it's something that some theist and some a theist
both seem to have some overlap in so i'm trying i'm kind of exploring it to see what i think about it
but from what i can glean thus far it seems to be this philosophical theory that basically every
particle of matter like every component of the known universe like right down to the microscopic
quark level um is imbued with some sort of degree of consciousness as this sort of like
innate inherent component of material being right so i'm not that but that's interesting
i'll link that so they would say that there's a that a rock potentially has something like a
consciousness just as an innate component it just doesn't have the coalescence of consciousness
required um to for there to be a state of affairs that it is something that it is like
to be that rock from an identity standpoint okay well i'm going to i'm going to jump in the
deep end i'm going to embarrass myself because i'm not too well versed in this i got the the
the black girl's companion to consciousness up there i haven't opened it i'm too scared to
to actually look into it um because i know it's going to be such a deep subject and the book
is i've never ever ever read it i should yeah i will i'll link it in the description as well
please do um but what i'm going to do i'm going to jump in the deep end i'm going to embarrass
myself a little bit because this idea is probably stupid but i want to get your thoughts on that
you're very insightful so i'm excited to hear this thank you that's why i started the youtube
channel by the way because i wanted because i'm insightful and you know the world needs to know
the world the world needs to be blessed i mean i was watching i was watching these conversations
with you and atheists experience and you know watching conversations debates all the time by
them and stuff and i was having conversations with myself from my own head or like with people
who didn't care like my wife she's like very interesting very interesting like she she does
tiktok watching a flat earth debate today and i died oh her face oh i was like aphelia
if you want to watch um there's a video i just recently put out um on one of our politicians
in australia yeah you would love it's me and her reacting to it it's her reacting to what i was
me showing it to her and i'll go back through because i follow you on tiktok you and paul would
get yeah well it's on youtube sorry um but you guys would get a laugh out of that you and paul
i think because even if you don't know australian politicians this dude is a meme a walking meme
anyway um bob katter so jumping jumping into it so my my thought process is what if i just call
bullshit on consciousness okay that sounds that sounds stupid right but like so it so when i
talk to someone about consciousness right i'm taking almost like a hard skeptical position
i say what is consciousness and then for one thing it's really hard to define people can't
necessarily define consciousness they will say like it's just it's how you feel it's what it is
to be me they use all this like flurry language and it's like what if i'm just called bullshit on
that and just say what it feels like to be you is just whatever's happening in your brain and then
they go well consciousness is like what it feels like it's the opposite of what it feels like to
be a rock and i'm like no what it feels like to be a rock is what it feels like to be a rock
so it's not like that rocks have consciousness it's just that they don't have the like they don't
have the ability to be conscious like or to to like to experience the things that we experience
and i have neuro neurology or anything like that or nervous system right so when someone when we
start talking about consciousness it seems to me that we almost beg the question so we say well
consciousness has to exist because i exist it's almost like a like i exist i'm real i feel things
i experience things and then they go from there where i'm saying well hang on you've already
begged the question you're already begging that there is something there what if we just said no
there isn't something there and i mean this is i know that so many people are going to be cringy
in the comments or whatever but and it is a little cringe right now i can hear yeah
surprise that um so it's like it's like because so the and just to just to just to push just to
explain why i'm thinking like this is because i came up against non-jewelous thought do you
know what non non-jewelism is like the idea that like everything is consciousness and and um and
really consciousness is awareness and we don't necessarily have um it's not tied to anything
physical and it's like a very eastern thought like so it's like like the entire universe is
consciousness and we're just experiencing like a corner of that consciousness yeah so what a universe
experiencing itself yeah form sort of thing but then i would just be like how though yeah so so
so to get super deep really quick so everything that you this is what they would say say to us right
if we had it interlocked ahead they would say everything that you experience you experience
through consciousness so it's so there's a consciousness first model right so okay if if we
were to like imagine ourselves uh david and shannon in a blank white room yeah okay and that
room represents consciousness we're in this room and i say to you everything that's in this room
is all that exists and you say well that's bullshit there's more that exists than the
then what's just in this room and then so and i go no there isn't and you go yes there is and so
you open the door you leave the room you take a photo of a flower you come back into the room
and you show me that flower and i say to you yes but that flower is now in this room right it can
never you can never escape the idea that it might be consciousness first versus matter first so we're
taught in in science whatever that it's matter first matter produces consciousness through the
brain right it's the general hypothesis what if it's the other way around what if matter doesn't
exist and consciousness comes first and so matter isn't matter is the assumption that we have to reject
that's like solipsism kind of isn't it it's it's similar it's along the similar lines of like
uh not really it's it's it's along the similar lines of like it's an it is unfalsifiable which
is frustrating um but it's kind of like solipsism i guess it's like the anti-solipsism because
solipsism would be like brain in the bat right like you're the only thing existing and you're
projecting external reality yeah yeah yeah through like or is that illusion anyway but yeah so
we need a sober we need a sober philosopher that just sits in the corner and just goes
actually what you guys are talking about is um and like just right so i do like and also like
i am no philosopher i find it all interesting i do like i like engaging with it because i think
that it can inform perspectives but i am not ever gonna be a philosopher but i'm just trying to i'm
trying to wrap my head around what you're saying though so consciousness first and how are we in
this model experiencing anything like what causes us to have a unique individual experience or are
any of us having a unique individual experience well just yeah it's um it's hard to explain it's
hard to explain it took a while for me to wrap my head around it um you have to get really deep into
the eastern memes um for to eastern philosophy but essentially it's like everything that you
experience ever yeah is consciousness first like can you think of an example that isn't
consciousness first no because everything exists through perceptions from right so everything's
a perceptual experience so someone like Rupert Spira i'll link his book in the description
i think it's one big beg the question but or it's it's unfalsifiable sorry but
he says um i think his book is called the nature of consciousness but or might be something else
but i'll link in the description but he says that essentially the assumption that there is matter
is is an unjustified assumption because we only we experience the first thing we experience is
consciousness and then right we assume matter based on our consciousness but oh that's actually
okay i like that makes sense to me when you say it that way we assume matter based on our
consciousness because i think that's kind of true so then there's some truth value to that for me
i think yeah so they're like on the on a surface level i can see how it makes sense i suppose is
what i'm saying yeah yeah six months time you'll be like you'll have a shaved head you'll be living
in india with a um oh no you're like i found the truth we assume we assume matter but like
why do things like pain exist then and if we're the ones assuming matter through consciousness
um is it our consciousness and if it is our consciousness why are there things about our
own body that don't make sense to us yeah so he goes in his book he starts with something kind of
what the jojovis witnesses do they start with something really easy to understand and then
they start talking about angels fighting demonic spirits right so so it's um he starts with something
really basic that it's consciousness first and then eventually by the end of his book he's talking
about how everything is the same consciousness and we're all one etc right because now i've
now that lost me because the first one seems trivially true just because we exist through
perceptions yeah to me anyway sorry i've got a bit of a cold so i'm sniffly but
that's right have more like under scrutiny though like yeah i'll have some more room that'll fix it
when you put it under scrutiny though it seems weird to me because it would seem like
like you couldn't explain other unique individual consciousness consciousness is
consciousness nigh what's the what's the plural of consciousness consciousness you couldn't explain
other unique individual ones and you also if you're constructing material reality um using your mind
like if that's the case why can't i take this cell phone apart and put it back together you know
what i mean like if i constructed this that would mean that i manifested every physical
material thing around me was manifested by me somehow um and that doesn't seem to make sense
to me because i don't understand a lot of the shit that i touch so or that exists in my environment
or my periphery or how any of it operates unless i magic it into existence which seems silly because
then why can't i just choose to magic whatever into existence if i don't have any control over it
it's it's more i guess i guess physical material world would exist i think but it's like looking
further back from that it's like it's going like a level deeper that's like it exists inside of
consciousness so it exists the same way you might love paul that exists but it's like that's inside
of your your your love maybe is inside of consciousness for paul ratt um and your hatred for
darthawkins or your humor oh i don't hate darth dawkins yeah yeah i i imagine you hate a lot of
people he hates me oh he hates me i still get messages evidently he still talks about me sometimes
i don't know why yeah it's he needs better hobbies okay so we're gonna have to table the rest of that
um the conversation around consciousness unfortunately there's so much more to go into um but
yeah we're talking about that for the end of time yeah yeah so we'll move it we'll move into the q and
a um and so i've got a list of questions from people in my discord some of them you've already
answered some of them you haven't so i'll read out the ones you haven't answered um and first one
a question that's so deep and dear to my heart that is so such a concern for me
oh good and my and my family um and you know my future um and that is does paul damage the brain
no god damn it can you talk about that because there's obviously that meme going around
that paul damages the brain it does not damage the brain it doesn't
the are you so there's so many memes going around and all of them are like equally dumb the one
that i hate the most is the one that uses actual um like images of the brain actually i think are
MRI images and tries to demonstrate that porn is damaging the brain because they're like look at
this growth or whatever but it's not even a growth it's it's the ventral stratum is like a part it's
the reward it's part of the reward center of your brain and people who watch a lot of porn have a
slightly overactive ventral stratum so it lights up a bit more in an MRI so it's not it's not growing
or changing it's still exactly the same fucking size it is all as it always was just more neurons
are firing when you watch porn or think about porn in the ventral stratum if you like porn a lot
and that's all that says that's literally all that fucking says and that your reward center might be
slightly overreactive but many different things could lead to that many interesting so i started
this off as a bit of a joke question but the in all seriousness is it like i was taught in church
that you know you start watching porn and then you'll be turned gay and then you'll be blowing
a dude behind the yeah i know all the all the um every man's battle kind of stuff or they interviewed
ted they interviewed ted bundy and they said you know ted bundy said that every serial killer has a
fascination with porn and it's like oh yes because he would know and he's and he's notoriously honest
as well yeah what's also interesting is like um but it's also like i don't know what criminal is
like no i'm not going to look at porn that's immoral like what he's doing what criminals doing that
anyway um so is there is there any like concern for someone i'm getting all seriousness now i'm
serious now take taking notes is there any like actual issue with consuming too much porn or um
like from a neurological physical physiological perspective but kind of the is the answer to that
and that's not me being evasive it's the truth because porn can be a maladaptive coping strategy
because it's dopamine inducing right so porn will activate your reward center and it'll also
activate your motor cortex so it activates several reasons your motor cortex for obvious reasons
you got to do some things with your hands usually there's some some things are moving
and reacting and also you're gonna like your somatosensory cortex is receiving some information
as well about some some touching that's taking place not me i only watch it and never touch
myself i just i just said it's an art form i'm just appreciating the art form by love art
and i have a deep appreciation for this art form i'm a media critic is what i am
media critic that's all just me learning and gathering information um yeah but no but it
can become a because it's dopamine releasing um it can become a maladaptive habit so it can be
something that becomes habit forming that you do repetitively as a form of sating um depressive
or anxiolytic thoughts and if that's something that can give you temporary relief um and you
continuously do it because it's giving you temporary relief like exposing yourself to the
pornography and doing whatever comes with it you can eventually get to the point that you
build up those pathways enough that um it's no longer a satisfying it's no longer something
that you're doing to satisfy or gratify yourself it's something that you're doing is a maladaptive
habit so it becomes a slightly more of a compulsion and less of a satisfying endeavor
because of because of because of that that could be also a concern um with things like
gambling or shopping or video games like they get the the same pathways are activated for the same
reasons to get the same result that can form the same type of maladaptive habits for the
same reasons with those activities as well so there's nothing special about porn when it comes
to that um but it could be a maladaptive coping strategy like it's not just 100 across the board
always good for you activity to do um but it in and of itself I see as kind of like an amoral
activity that more often than not 99.9 percent of the time is just a normal thing that normal people
do because they're normal and it shouldn't be shamed and so long as everybody is informed and
enthusiastic and consenting and compensated appropriately that's involved in it um from the
production end um I say have at it no problem sex work is work that's great like let's not kink
shame let's like go do you but you can't like the world is nuanced right you have to accept the fact
that they're that for some people it could become a problem and when you say become a problem is
that like the same as like people who play video games all day or people who watch porn all day
or people who um uh is it the same with alcoholism like um alcoholism has a chemical component so
not quite the same right so alcoholism you're introducing a substance into your system that's
fundamentally changing your neurochemical biosphere right so the biosphere is probably not the word
that i'm looking for but you've had many roms yes i've i have had i've changed my biosphere
i've got biosphere is augmenting as we speak but yeah so alcohol is the most chemical component
right so you can create an actual physiological dependency on something like an alcohol same
with nicotine same with caffeine same with like you know morphine any kind of opiates those those
are all things that can create an actual physiological biochemical dependency you
can't create a physiological biochemical dependency on porn the porn itself isn't the
problem in these it's like porn gets assigned the designation of the problem when really it's
you know the temporary self-medication that people are using for the actual problem the actual
problem is usually something like um a situational or chronic depression or a severe social anxiety
or neurochemical anxiety or trauma or or or or or right like yeah yeah these are underlying
psychosocial or neurodivergence issues that need to be like identified appropriately so
that they can be addressed appropriately and when they aren't the coping mechanisms for them can
manifest as dopamine-seeking behaviors that then become maladaptive habits and then the habit
that's that the maladaptive habit is what ends up being blamed as the problem like it people work
backwards and say well porn made you do this when really like something was going on and you turned
to that so that's very interesting so are you saying like the average person
woman man who wakes up in the morning looks at some porn on their phone plays themselves and
moves on with their day yeah that's one thing but then someone who is like getting yelled at by their
boss and then runs into the bathroom to masturbate to try and remove that anxiety or whatever you
think there's like a that's like the maladaptive coping habit yeah okay so that's the differentiation
yeah like you learned at some point in time that you get that dopamine boost or whatever
from that activity because you do and you utilized that to cope with things instead of
actually coping with them right or like you start to become more and more socially isolated as an
example as well like it that's something that happens when you have severe anxiety or depressive
disorders you start to become more socially isolated and more overwhelmed well what what's
a thing that you can do to when you're alone consistently and socially isolated and overwhelmed
that's an activity that will give you a sense of at least temporary satisfaction and you know
some sort of like positive stimulation well viewing pornography and masturbating is probably
something that's easily accessible that you could do that would give you that temporary release
is is that something that you could end up doing more and more consistently as you become
increasingly isolated is that something that you could then affiliate with a sense of isolation
or choose over social interactions going forward because you formed a habit around it and now
it's the only thing in your recent recall that's given you any kind of pleasure and everything else
is terrifying and also now it's wrapped up with all of this sense of shame that it's imbued with
too right because society gives you this sense of shame about it so now you're constantly ashamed
and that's increasing the anxiety and depression which is causing you to turn more to pornography
which is increasing your social isolation the point like what is the porn really the problem
there no the porn is is the worst thing that you could continue doing probably and you're
going to need to to completely secede from it at some point in time until you can learn to use it
normally but in order for you to learn to use it normally what you need to do is address the
underlying problem that you're using the porn to self medicate poorly and then creating that
maladaptive habit around does that make sense it does and i feel like i'd love to have you on
another time to talk about addiction because there's there's a lot of addiction i've got a lot of
history in my family of addiction and i'd love to talk to you about the club i've had
for a while i've had some suspicions about the way that we treat addiction with like a and a and
stuff like that um yeah so i'd like to talk to you more about that but moving on um oh that was
one question yeah i'm gonna i'm going to be better no no no that's fine that's really good i'll pick
out what i think are good good questions and um i don't know if you ever want to do this again but
if you do i'll be happy to have you on and we can ask the other questions again um can you give a
brief explanation of cognitive science perspective of religion
one no i can never give a brief explanation of anything if you ask me for a brief explanation
of like what i'm holding in my hand i probably couldn't fucking do that right but of what cognitive
science thinks of religion i mean it depends on the religion there's like like it depends on the
society it depends on the individual it depends on the community so no i guess my like my answer
would be no i can't there's no such thing as a brief explanation of what cognitive science
thinks of religion not if you're being fair um i mean i guess i could say that a brief
explanation of what a social science seems of thinks about religion would probably fall into
the derkheimian models so like look up emil derkheim and what um his perspectives on religion from
a quantifiable like research standpoint are um i'll link some stuff in the description
emil derkheim would be who would you who you would look at from like a social sciences
perspective on religion like how to quantify religion to study um but it's too vast an
array of perspectives to nail down to because what but when when you're thinking about religion you
might just be thinking about like mainstream fundamental christianity but there's also people
who would pretend who would consider themselves religious who are deistic right and don't even
really have an ideological um aspect to their religion so from a cognitive perspective they
would be completely different but they're both still religious um so it wouldn't be fair for me uh
yeah i hope that i i said that's no it doesn't answer i guess no no it does like i could have i
could have started that i could have like sent you that question and then given you a month and
then like started the interview with that question and we still wouldn't be done with answering it
like it's such a big yeah it's such a big question does that have to go through each i'd have to list
off all those however many gods you listed off all four thousand of those gods that you read off
and then figure out what kind of models were built around those gods then look at the society
and see how that impacts the society at a societal level and then look at each individual and see
if there's differences between how it impacts different individuals too because from a cognitive
perspective a woman in fundamental christianity um or an lgbt person in a christian fundamentalist
family like from a cognitive perspective their cognition is going to be and perceptions are
going to be vastly different in how they're formed than you know somebody who's a patriarchal
head of the household in that model like so i i can't just say that religion does x to your
brain without contextualizing right i i have this book that i think people should read called what
is religion um i found it in bayern bay of all places it was like 75 and the only reason i stopped
is because it's a tiny little book that was worth 75 and um it turns out the reason it was worth
75 is because it's such a niche topic but if if someone's interested in what you're talking about
which is um uh it talks about like what like what is religion like talks specifically about
like it's very it's a very complicated issue to to even get into yeah yeah um the dmc the d
oh my god i'm drunk the dmc the dsm five yeah um in the dsm dsm five the delusion okay this is
going to trigger you a little bit but i want you to deal with it i'm ready in the dmc and five
delusion is defined as fixed beliefs that are not amendable to change in the light of conflicting
evidence uh using this definition can some aspects of faith be classified as a delusion
this is a conversation we have a thread going on my um discord server because i i looked up
this definition and i was like that seems to fit a lot of my friends and family
where you present them evidence and then don't but i'm also smart enough to realize that i'm not
smart enough i don't know the terminology and stuff they're using in the dmc far dmc
d dsm five far out way too drunk um so i wanted to get your perspective i wanted to get your
perspective perspective because i know that you don't think that faith is a delusion in some aspects
so no so here let's use this as an example so you and i are atheists right yeah okay part of the club
yeah we're bros you and i'm out to la huntie blessed us with his um
septa with his atheism yes yes so i've heard so i've heard that that's how all of us
yeah so i know that guy yeah uh you and i are atheists now
now were you amenable to change once you were presented with different information
sometimes i wasn't sometimes i was yeah okay so when you weren't was that because
you had uh some sort of disorder that prevented you from being in touch with reality or perceiving
reality accurately no i wasn't i wouldn't say disorder i'm trying to be very specific with
the wording but i would say that i i made a i made a conscious decision to block off
certain narratives in my head okay so you were the the information was presented to you you
go to a certain degree thought that it might be correct but just chose to disregard it so that
you were quelling your dissonance by finding a way to reconcile with yourself that you uh that
you didn't need to accept this information for example yeah okay is that a is that something
that most reasonable people do on a day-to-day basis with myriad things not just religion but
other things as well yes they get presented with information that that maybe butts up against
some belief or another ideology that they have and okay so was that because you had
good because in order for me to accept this model that you know it's delusion it would have to be
presented to me and there's a reason there's a reason that people don't diagnose medical
professionals don't diagnose religious people with delusional disorders because um it's exceptionally
commonplace for people to have bad ideologies of manifesting in all kinds of different ways
right so you can have bad political ideologies you can have bad social interaction ideologies
you can have bad religious ideologies they're just having bad ideologies is the human condition
it's not a mental illness it's just uh we are not perfectly rational machines that just you know
can discern truth accurately a hundred percent of the time and choose not to and or can't because
of some sort of disorder we're just you know not as good as we think we are now in order for it to
be a delusion it needs to be persistent not amenable to change um and like prevalence enough
that it is impacting your day-to-day life so for a delusion to become disordered it needs to be
something that you believe in very very strongly despite the fact that it is not reflected external
to you keep this in mind because it's an important component or reinforced external to you an extant
reality now would you say that religions um exist and are reinforced external to you an extant reality
no no okay so no no they are they are they are they're definitely so they're not resistant to
to the the manifest reality around you right because they fit within the manifest reality
around you having religious ideologies they've been varied varied squarely and nicely within it
and in fact are encouraged and built for you based on the manifest external reality so it's
it's anticipated and expected that people would be religious because societies are religious and
people are taught to believe it and do and are given bits and pieces of external reinforcement
in order to consistently hold to it um they're taught to misattribute things that they perceive
or external monologues that they may have um or perceptions that they may have um they're taught
to misattribute it to religion they're like we're people we're taught we're taught to mold our
perspectives and our perceptions um and how to perceive them through that lens so that's
the that's the outcome we would expect so it's not a delusion if it's something that we could
predictively expect predictably expect given the external world around us it becomes a delusion
when it doesn't match the external world around us it is persistent there's nothing that we can
do to change it really aside from you know like injecting treatment and it starts to affect your
day-to-day life in a way that you can no longer function or interact on any meaningful level
and you become disorganized in your your social behavior and potentially physical or
danger to yourself or others those are when it becomes dangerous and people people's insistence
in calling in a delusion blows my mind because it's like say especially if you're now an atheist
because it's like saying I was delusional I was clearly delusional I was clearly clearly not in
my right mind and incapable of perceiving reality just incapable of perceiving reality at all
yet somehow despite the fact that I was incapable of perceiving reality I just one day perceived it
I just one day went oh there's reality I think I think what you thought of it somehow it's weird
yeah I think people have been healed by the blessed hands of Aron Ra
Aron's hands are I've met I've met her in person his hands you are usually around a beer
or a really hot chicken wing so so I've I've spoke to Aron Aron a few times I'd love to have
have him on for a chat um he um he he will fuck you up with some hot sauce he might ask you to
drink that so be careful well I was just about to say I have over 50 species of chilies growing in
my backyard and I only have you'll get along I only have I've seen photos of your backyard like on
with the fire pit and stuff oh yeah I have about 120th the size so it's literally like you walk
around you walk around the pot plants that are everywhere um I have the hottest chilies in the
world I have chilies that I only found next to like a small river in the Brazilian rainforest
no yeah so I have like you'll love your species yeah so I wish he was I wish I could send him some
some stuff I make but I can't um but yeah it's uh it'd be it'd be really cool to meet him one day
into and to he's fun he's so nice yeah I know he's like you would think he would be because
because he's such a big personality and physically a big guy and like intimidating looking you would
think that he would be in like an intimidating presence but he is just the nicest easiest to
approach he's so kind no I don't I don't even think of him like that you see like I loved his
book and stuff links in the description um but I think that um I view him as like a like if you
got a teddy bear dress dress him in satanic like metal gear like leather hard leather
that's what I'm everything about clandestics that's what I would be known
and then like I'd love to just like okay I'm like and then if if you could like throw throw like
objections to um evolution at him and this this teddy bear would spit out like a
ruby reasons response that's what I see is iron rod like yeah I want to like give him a hug and
then like cut myself on the metal studs that he has I don't know like he seems like a cool dude
I really enjoy his book yeah um I'm a Dallas
pardon me uh so
okay this is a this is a good question what do you think is the most effective method for lay people
to honestly engage with ideas and beliefs so this person gave an example of like maybe a
street of testimony like the style where you just ask someone questions you try and understand the
underlying reasons talking about dialogue like dialogue specifically dialogue yeah okay dialogue
specifically yeah uh people are gonna hate my answers because I so wish you wish you at first
I'd say it depends on the person like it's so and and I don't mean like just depends on the person
on an individual level it depends on whether or not you're talking to somebody that's like a loved
one or a close family member or you're talking and whether you're talking to somebody in person
or on the internet as well because every different type of
like your relationship is going to affect how you interact because you're because you're invested
in the outcome of that conversation more if it's a personal relationship so you need to treat it a
different way um and when you're interacting with people more online it's going to depend on the
medium through which you're interacting with them is it twitter yes it's right exactly like if
it's twitter my answer would be just fucking don't I used to now twitter is just where I go um
to be a dick
that's it's just a it's just a catharsis dump for me on twitter for the most part like I can
and I like there's many people I interact with on twitter like through dms and I'd like to see
what people are up to and interact with people that I like on twitter um but I stopped attempting
to have much meaningful conversation on twitter a significant amount of time ago because uh it's
a frustrating medium that's made to make conversations uh difficult to have and confusing in any sort of
meaningful way uh just do not if if if someone if if someone is like engaging with me on a topic
yeah and they're being really frustrating to me I was asked them to come I'm like hey jump on the
discord we'll have a chat back and then they're great they disappear quicker than anything and then
I can go on with my irrational belief in their mind um or they do come on and they challenge me
like I challenged um not challenge but I said some really inflammatory stuff about mythicism
and the godless engineer called me out and I jumped on his channel and um we like I I get
frustrated when people come to me and they tell me something in like they tell me something
inflammatory and then when I push them on it and we go to have a chat they soften it so like you
know what I'm not going to do that I'm going to stand by my statement which my statement was um
is clear to me that mythicists are only mythicists for the feels so I so I jumped on there um knowing
nothing about mythicism and I said look I've said John's such a good person to talk to I shouldn't
have said that like no no no he is so um I said I'm glad it ended well because he's a good friend
of mine yeah no no I I like him a lot so I said look I said um I said because I think at the
start he thought it was going to be a really like fiery stream yeah I said like oh thanks for
actually engaging with me like I we can have a cordial conversation he's like why do you want
to have a cordial conversation when you come at me like that and I was like oh true valid point no
valid point so so but I do want to jump into his room and soften my arguments so I was like no I
said something I should stand by it so I jumped on and I built a little syllogism like in five
minutes beforehand and stuff and we had a back and forth and um I still hold to my same perspective
I've I've I've softened my um perspective a lot though and he definitely I said look man
I said I said this inflammatory thing I'm gonna stand by it for the sake of this argument I want
you to show me where I'm wrong and he he showed me that I knew very little about what I thought I was
like what I had a strong opinion about and so me and him when he like we ended as friends
like he got frustrated some way through the line and his um his partner his wife I think um
had to like calm him down a few times which is which is pretty funny but besides that we ended
up as good friends we've been chatting back and forth um not good friends sorry but we
were friends and we've been chatting back and forth and and I'd love to have him on the show
one time and um he's been giving me resources and I'm looking into mythicism which I never
thought I would do um because I'm a big um Bart Ehrman fanboy so uh yeah so oh that's funny yeah
so it ended up good but in general like people I know but in in general like the the approach
that I have is if I ask someone if someone's arguing me on twitter I ask them to have a
conversation on discord or somewhere they're choosing if they say no I can forget about
their stupid arguments because they didn't end up they were being performative to like
little pithy tweets off or whatever yeah and if they do come on I'll show you I'll show them
where they're incorrect and if if not they'll show me where I'm misguided and that's what
god the sentient did and I'm like okay there's something I gotta I gotta look into this a bit
more I gotta be a bit more educated and then it pushes me to I push into cognitive dissonance
like a workout don't jump on the shit on mythesis train though dude that annoys me
and really are you a mythicist no I'm not I'm not but what annoys me is the the attitude towards
the mythicist position is so condescending to me and I like I oh yeah maybe it's because I've known
john for so long too and like and I know all the research he does too right like like he's
it doesn't convince me it does convince him that's great like whatever the the people who are
constantly all over the internet going mythicists are a shameful blah blah blah stupid like they
act like they're like I have to say like jackasses towards mythicists where they could just like
if you don't believe it then just leave them the fuck alone like why do you why yeah like what do
you mean like this for aside from acting you have to hear your something I don't get it you have the
best you have the best bro voice ever like that yeah I would agree with you so my perspective
of mythicism was like Jesus didn't exist bro lol like that was my understanding of what
mythicism was no my my yeah I know because of mythicism I know what the word interpolation means
there's actually shit to be learned there if you look yeah yeah it's it's interesting right
so my my perspective was essentially most scholars don't hold to the mythicist position
therefore most people must be coming to the perspective of mythicism for non scholarly
and what John challenged me with is he said look um he said they um they a lot of these people
have to sign statements of faith they have to their their perspective is that Jesus was a real
person and I didn't realize that mythicism actually held to these are more in-depth
perspective of like what could be obtained from theological ideas it wasn't just like
Jesus didn't exist lol and then move on with your day it was like no no there are some like
theological ramifications and like and I was like okay so he blew my mind in that aspect and
you know when I get some free time I'm gonna read Rich Carrier's book and and the other books
that he suggested and let's give it it's um it's let's give it its due and even if I don't get
convinced I'll at least be a better off for it and right like you're tearing down something I think
because of your assumption that has been given to you by other people about what those people believe
and not um actually critically analyzing what they do you believe yeah and they're like you
may learn a lot looking into mythicism like I learned a lot about like who Tacitus is and how
like his like his um history related like not just to the Roman Empire but also to like the
history of Christianity same with Josephus like I wouldn't if I hadn't looked into mythicism
because I thought that it was interesting and wanted to explore it more um I wouldn't have
learned those things or been exposed to them if I had just gone in with the underlying assumption
well those guys are part of the consensus and everybody says they're stupid and I don't want
people to think I'm stupid like them so I'm going to call them stupid too so everybody
will know that I'm not in their camp and I think they're stupid like that drives me I wouldn't
have learned any of that stuff and yeah yeah it's a better way to be that's a really good point but
I'm just wondering if anyone in either of our audiences could cut together every time
Shannon bro voice yeah we can at least say um
you should create a um you should create a um tiktok like um uh Josh uh Josh Bowen did with um
not Ken Hovind which is my favorite you know Ken Hovind is my favorite um
um Shannon Shannon bro where you just make bro arguments um
bro if you if you apologize uh so this is a oh I shouldn't this is a this is a serious question
okay it's funny I'm in very serious mood so I'm disappointed if you and if you
apologize if you and Paul ever got married would you consider asking and like a traditional
marriage in a church or something let's say for somebody's new year okay would you ever
consider asking Michael Jones to be the minister oh my god you know why he would say no though
the reason Mike would say no is because he's in love with Paul and Paul are like I don't even
I don't know how to like I've literally sent that man like speaking of Bart Ehrman they were
both interviewing Bart Ehrman and that like I'm telling tales at a school I don't even care
anymore I've now had three rums so we're gonna talk about this I've had more than have you
only had three rums yes I'm shit faced I've had so much like look how small look how far this
bottles down like it's hard to tell because mine's ginormous but
anyway so they were interviewing Bart Ehrman so they were all in like a queue that I think Derek
from MythVision like had set it up with Bart's people when he was promoting his like debate or
whatever with Michael O'Connor or something so Paul and Mike were in the back room together
of this like stream thing and everybody needs to be quiet and Mike was blowing kisses at Paul
and so Paul texts me and he says I'm waiting to go in I think I'm talking to Bart next
Mike keeps blowing kisses at me and I said I've told Mike once if I've told him once I've told him
a hundred times it stopped flirting with my fucking boyfriend so I messaged Mike and I was like
bitch Paul told me that you're blowing kisses at him stop flirting with my boyfriend and you
know when people write in like the big text and then the small text because they're not taking
you seriously yeah he just wrote back in quotation marks and like the big text then small text so like
big ass and then small tea and then big oh yeah yeah stop flirting with my boyfriend
the reason he would say no is because he couldn't stand I don't think to see Paul marry anybody but
him but don't tell anybody I told you motherfucker honestly I like a lot of people don't like like
a lot of atheists don't like Michael Jones but I think Michael Jones is I like him I like him a
lot so many of my friends do not like him yeah I think he makes I think because he's quite reasonable
and he's quite switched on when it comes to Bible stuff and I don't think that's why they don't I
think it's because he's also a bit of a dick sometimes I think that's sometimes I spent like
in this in in this environment we're all incentivized to go at each other right like
because that conflict a we're like on diametrically opposed sides of like sometimes very serious
moral issues and we're also very like this isn't a realm where we're just talking about stuff because
we think it's interesting like there's investment here on both sides emotional mental social like
impact on society investment and we see it different ways so when you're responding to people
sometimes you can be very biting and condescending and it's very easy to take that personally
and sometimes it's intended to be taken personally and I think Mike can sometimes do that with people
and people can sometimes do that with Mike so they get um rightfully so potentially on both ends
um upset because that it seemed like it was meant to be personal and potentially it was
and Mike can do that sometimes so I know people that I think maybe have a legitimate beef with him
from a personal perspective it's not my fight and it's not my beef um and nor can I control how he
or they act but yeah it's hard because I've never seen Michael Jones do that well I've never seen
it but like I'm I'm his biggest fan girl ever like I think he does not need more help with his
fucking head I say to him I say I'm gonna have to tear him down so hard to compensate for this
I say to him I'll cut this out I say to him all I say to people all the time like if you if you're
a Christian and you're having struggles with your faith and you don't want to lose your faith or
whatever or like you're a Christian you want like Michael Jones he's he's like I don't agree with him
with a lot of stuff and I think he does stretch with some things however as far as apologists go
he is like the most honest apologist I've ever met I've watched him change his position on things
because he's yeah he's new information yeah I really love um and something that is just funny
that um that I don't know if it'll ever happen because the person is going through court and
they can't appear on podcasts but essentially I may be interviewing a sataness soon right
a um he's the head brother of the the temple of satan where I live and um they don't believe in
satan is satan or whatever they use it as hail satan kind of documentary for one America right
yeah um he wants to come on to the podcast and he is going to bake me pop um pumpkin muffin uh
pumpkin scones which he says he's excellent at and we're going to drink tea okay okay when when
Michael Jones was on we drank straight scotch legible in 16 my favorite scotch and he's we sat
so I'm sitting there with a Christian apologist drinking straight scotch and then the sataness
comes on and we're drinking tea and pumpkin scones and it's like this this dichotomy is amazing and
what I love about Michael to just wrap it all up is that he's very real and he's very like you know
like he's a little bit I'm not saying this in a in a in a harsh way but he's a little bit
worldly I'm not saying that in like a negative spiritual way but like he's got tattoos he like
can joke about things he can like talk about serious issues in a joking way like you see on
the podcast like I throw some throw some jokes at him and he can he can wrestle with him and he's
not taking everything so seriously yeah yeah he um he he talks about like um what I something he
said that really stuck with me is he really struggles with the kind of churches that I
was brought up with which is like Pentecostals speaking in tongues getting words from the
god and all that stuff he he said that if you're hearing from god you're either hearing something
that is already in line with what the bible says or it's not in the bible in which you should be
concerned like if it's if it disagrees with the bible in which case you don't need the you don't
need the word of god you just you don't need like god to speak to you you just read the bible
right I was like wow I was like that's really interesting like he takes a very
intellectual approach to his form of faith and I and I like that um if I if I if someone held
held a supernatural gun to my head and I for some reason had to become a christian I would
he would be I would be his first disciple you know I mean like I would I think that if if there
was a way to reconcile the faith I don't think there is I think Michael Jones is wrong about a
lot of things but I like the way he approaches approaches it so yeah he's he's got my respect
in that regard at least I feel the same way about lord too I don't know if you know Laura
Laura who Laura um oh my gosh the last name is escaping my Robinson Laura Robinson um
I love her yeah I'm gonna put her link in the description as well when I find her she's so much
fun and she's um I'm not sure if she she was doing her PhD at Duke I'm not sure if she finished it
or not yet but yeah she's the same way like I think she's wrong and she thinks I'm wrong
but she's just like a good a good person right yeah approaches things from a very scholarly
perspective and a lot of the things that you see a lot of apologists saying she's she she looks at
other apologists and she's like you guys are dumb like that's like it doesn't say that like it is
like you guys don't agree at all with anything about what we're studying at school at university
what the consensus is of amongst scholars like why are you guys saying this shit what the
fuck is going on what is your problem yeah and I'm like well that's what I've been saying
I will check out her um her stuff I'll put her links in the description for anyone to check out
as well um okay I'm gonna go through these last few real quickly um but does indoctrination
affect physiological brain development uh everything your what can um indoctrination
affect physiological brain development um everything that you're exposed to affects
physiological brain development so god I feel like my answers are also there's actually there's
nuance you know that's good though because life like everything in life is nuance there's not
outside of mathematics there's not many things that are binary like one or two you know like this
yeah so like everything that you're supposed to affects your physiological brain right because
you're gonna have some sort of reaction that's gonna leave an imprint in your brain that's
me very oversimplifying it because rum um so can indoctrination have a physiological impact
the answer is yes absolutely similar to what we were talking about earlier with porn creating
those like habits those habits are reinforced through like uh basal ganglia structures in the
brain constantly being activated and core disease telling you that like to keep doing this habit
indoctrination can create the same sort of um pathways that lay down that we take for granted
that then become sort of like tacit function as opposed to like directed function like the
the things that you end up having thrust upon you what during the indoctrination process
don't just impact the way that you think about religion they impact the way that you think about
and view the world to the point that even when you're deconverting you have what my friend ocean
calls and i think this is such a great term this sort of like latent christianity or like this
latent religious imprint that you still have to deconstruct even though you think just because
you don't believe anymore that you're done with it like it's not done with you yet because it has
impacted a lot of your neurological um function is that how like people can be afraid of hell
even after they stop believing how that's that's a really good example actually because that's
like a deep-seated fear and that's a part of the brain that becomes almost like autonomic right
it's it's something that's built into your like most base reactions to external stimuli and to
any sort of like conscious processing is that emotional state that is like that like that
really like deep down base of that so if you instill something like a serious deep down
fear like a fear of something that is so intense that everything is like measured up against it
consistently because every decision you make if you're if you really really really believe in hell
every decision you make that's going to factor into that decision right everything you make like so
now it's part of your um decision making process whenever you're making any kind of decision it's
factoring into that as well so it's that's not going to go away because your how you make decisions
doesn't change because you didn't you don't believe in god anymore like your brain doesn't go oh we
don't believe in god anymore i guess we'll make decision processes different nope it doesn't do
that your brain has been making decision processes a certain kind of way your entire life and it's
incorporated whether or not you're gonna go to hell in those decision making processes you can't
just flick a switch and have that not happen anymore it's it's going to still come up because
it always did so when you're making decisions about things that previously would have that
like hell implications how's gonna come up because it always did because there was hell
implications so now you have to tell yourself there actually are tell implications but you're
afraid of hell your brain still goes how's bad and scary we don't want to go there like it takes
a while to convince your brain well it's not real you don't need to be afraid well we've never even
been exposed to it before so it's not like you can convince like you convinced me whole cloth like
self you convinced me as the brain that this was a thing i should be afraid of
i've never been exposed to it it's just a conceptual thing that i'm supposed to be
afraid of how am i supposed to get rid of a concept that i gave myself overnight it's
it's actually interesting because i remember when i when i got saved when well when i had my
spiritual experience at church i remember i slowly started to change what i thought was
acceptable and what wasn't acceptable so like i would stop listening to slipknot at one stage
in my teenage years because it was evil and i stopped listening to eventually i stopped listening
to all christian music i stopped swearing and i started like moving away from that like moving
away like i started moving in a certain direction and but it took a while for me to learn things
and you know like new christians are the same we is that similar in that like you have to when you
come under a new ideology and your belief system that people around you are believing it's you have
to start the you slowly have to learn what's right and wrong again right yeah that's that's a
fair assessment yep yeah true it's very interesting um i i will move this i'll i'm gonna skip the
rest of the q and a questions because we've been going for almost three hours and holy crap keep going
we're gonna be slurring our words even more than we might i know and i'm already like what do you
gotta mean what am i trying to say um what's going on in my brain biosphere because apparently
that's a that's a way to describe your brain now according to me my audience are lovely they're
gonna forgive any steps in communication and also most of them probably won't even understand what
you're talking about but i'm gonna ask you one serious question and then a bonus fun question
okay okay so the last question is what would convince you of god's existence um a coherent
definition of god that's irrefutable because if you create if you actually came up with a definition
of god that um was coherent and irrefutable because i haven't come across one yet um i would be
intellectually forced to believe in it so interesting find me a definition of god that has
internal consistencies um that is irrefutable and i would have to believe it
oh it's a very reasonable question reasonable answer sorry oh my god i'm drunk
i'm glad that we we skipped a few because this bonus question is a fun one and um this this is
just for fun okay okay this is a bonus question if if you could choose an afterlife of some sort
and it would instantly become true what would you choose an afterlife so so like do you want to
believe in like the truth from christian heaven and hell or reincarnation or like maybe some other
like native american thing you've heard or like like what if you could choose something and it
would instantly become true despite you currently not believing it's true what would you choose what's
the funnest afterlife or conception of reality can i make my own yeah go for it um i would want to
be able to watch my son live his life
oh that's what i would pick i'd want to be able to watch my son live his life
after i was gone wow and then i could just go away i just want to watch him live his life
shannon i wasn't ready for that amount of sweetness to like like that's that's very that's
that's beautiful that's a really nice answer um wow that's what i'd want
wow then i don't need to go i just i just want to see that
then i'd be good then i could just fade away
watch shannon just so that i would know he was okay
yeah and see what see what he does i don't need to see everything he does
well you probably know which anime is he's gonna watch um you probably had to watch all those so
yeah lots of one piece and the time i got reincarnated as a slime and my hero academia
and something the mortal king i can't remember what he's watching right now
just a sudden it is pulled to any graphic novels anymore or is he off off that hall is now officially
a full-time youtuber wow that's the only person with a real job in this house
oh that's not at the moment no but i've got some of his graphic novels
behind me actually sitting on that shelf do you want to see one have you ever seen any
i have not are you gonna give us a absolutely yeah a hundred percent
sitting on top of a pile of textbooks um this is the one that he was writing when he was
de-converting called the ozoic pretty cool pretty cool did he do those drawings uh no there's an
artist that did the drawings he wrote them and owned the company he also did this like so this is
from uh of the usual suspects the character kaiser soze from the usual suspects he wrote
graphic novel but i have some more these are the only ones i have a pile of textbooks and then
a couple of his graphic novels this is the second ozoic wow that's so cool he wrote several others
are they available for purchase anywhere is that not like his uh really red five okay links links
will be in the description to purchase pologears awesome graphic novels as well as everything
else that we've talked about uh as well as any other resources that shana might think of when
she sobes up or i might think of when i will never silver up don't tell me don't tell me how to live
um but thank you like there's so much we didn't touch on but thank you so much shana and q for
coming on it's been an absolute pleasure um most interviews i'm a little bit nervous beforehand
but i just i just felt like we would get on so well that i just knew that i didn't have to be nervous
so i've okay it's been a really enjoyable conversation you're a great person i'll link
all your stuff in the description um of course your youtube channel um make sure you check out
twitter as well because her twitter will probably have a different um name which is currently um
you currently invasive interlocutor i basically interlocutor yeah so so go go to see what she
currently what shana currently is because i'm sure it's something else just as funny that
change whoever has the most creative install let's see maybe maybe my audience could come up with
some cool maybe insults and we could we might have a winner in your youtube comment section
you don't know and i can tell if you're a tryhard i know if you're trying i can tell
well thank you so much shana for coming on um you've done a fantastic job of getting me drunk
and educating me about neuroscience the consciousness in the brain i'm going to learn a lot about you
yeah um and so thank you so much and i'll see everyone next time
