Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcast. My name is Dave. Very excited to be here as always.
Today we have a very, very interesting episode. First of all, before we get started, mods,
you're welcome to mute anyone in the chat who give them one morning if they're being disruptive.
And if they don't listen to that warning, you can mute them. And any anti-semitism,
it's instant ban. That's what we do here. So my guest today is Nicene, who is a nuclear engineer.
Oh, sorry, Nicene. Oh my God. Sinane, oh my gosh, is a nuclear engineer author of an upcoming book
taking off the tinfoil hat. It's how lizard people and space lasers dismantled my Christian worldview.
She's also a tiktoker. Welcome, Sinane.
I muted myself. Hey, thanks for having me on.
How you doing? I called you Nicene. Where was my brain? My brain is already like...
It's okay. It's a topic. You can call me whatever you want. Sin for short, so that's fine.
Okay. Whoa, that was weird. Okay, so welcome everyone. Today, we're going to be talking about
some pretty heavy topics. But first, what are we drinking?
Negronium. Yep. So apparently, we've had this on the show before. I've forgotten about
exactly when, but I'm sure I've had it before because as soon as I tasted it last night when
I was testing it, I could tell that it was the same monstrosity that I made last time. And I was
like, why does this taste so bad? And turns out we had the wrong vermouth or the mouth of the
mouth. I'm not very good at words. We had the dry version and it tasted so bad. So I ordered Uber
Eats. Like at that time, I couldn't drive and I was... I didn't want to drive and
busy and I ordered Uber Eats to come drop off a new bottle. And it arrived and I was like,
great, got the bottle. And he's like, oh, I need to scan your ID. I'm like, okay, cool. And my ID,
my license was embellished by three days and I didn't realize. And he was at the front talking
on the phone for like 20 minutes. And then he came back and he's like, I've got to take the
bottle off you. So I was like, what? So then he literally took the bottle and brought it back
to the store because my ID was out of date by three days. And I was like, my wife has ID.
Can we do it? And he's like, no, we can't do anything. So again, I didn't have the right
vermouth again. So I looked up substitutes and I found that you can use a really sweet wine as a
substitute, red wine as a substitute. And luckily we had one. And I tried it this morning and it
was considerably better. So mine is a kind of a Negroni but kind of like not on the same,
not exactly the same, but it's at least better than what I was drinking last night. So yeah.
I'm so sorry, I had so much trouble. My husband makes fun of this being my like favorite cocktail.
He says he married like an 80 year old Italian grandfather. So that's my taste.
So first of all, what is QAnon? Can you give everyone like a brief explanation
of like what is QAnon and how does it kind of line up with different conspiracy theories?
I know there's like the classic like anti-vax, you know, COVID, all that kind of stuff. But QAnon's
kind of like the big brother to all that stuff. Like how, what is QAnon? Can you explain it for
people who may not know? All right, starting off with the light topics. So QAnon started in October
of 2017, which is a lot earlier than I think most people realize. Like this was early into the
Trump presidency and you know, I have an engineering degree. So I am a nerd and I've been surrounded
by nerds for a very long time. And so it started on this website called 4chan, which is kind of
like a red. So Reddit is the website that most people know. And it's kind of like a message
board forum style website. It's moderated. So if you post something that is anti-Semitic or
like a physical threat or something, it will get taken down. 4chan is the less moderated version
of Reddit, where all the nerds live. So I was like loosely familiar with this. And then within a
month of QAnon starting, it moved to 8chan, which was a even less moderated version of 4chan. So
this is literally like the part of the internet where like pedophiles and Nazis hang out. Like
the worst of the worst. I've been to 4chan a fair few times. I don't know why, but you know,
I've grown up in the dark corners of the internet. And the thing with 4chan that I found different
to a lot of websites is their posts will delete. So if it doesn't get enough traction, they'll
delete within a post will only live there for like maybe 30 minutes. And then it's gone forever.
So that's why that's how it's so hard to even if they wanted to moderate, it's so hard to
moderate. But for a long time, yeah, people were posting like really disgusting videos on there.
My little brother was telling a story once how he was on there looking at a kitten thread.
And it was just like kittens, right? And it was like cute photos of kittens. And you're like,
Oh, cool. Like this. And then someone would post an image of like a barbecued kitten. And you're
like, Oh, that's fucked up. Like, so yeah, so it's like that's the kind of realm of like stuff
that it's like, it's like the bottom of the barrel humanity on that website. And that's 4chan.
8chan is like exponentially worse. And, you know, so, so I would try to explain some of these things
to like my my friends and family, like the normies, and like that it's so far beyond like,
you know, my family doesn't know how to use the internet, you know, let alone. So like it's so
far beyond anything that they can understand that it's just like it's bizarre. And like these websites,
that this is like where memes are born. And they have they have a culture and they have
slang and they have inside jokes and all this stuff. And one of the inside jokes or like pranks,
trolls that would happen on these websites, is that somebody would like pretend to be
an agent of some kind, have insider knowledge, and they'd be like leaking information. And so
there was like a CIA anon, a non stands for anonymous, an FBI anon, a state trooper anon.
And like this, this had happened many, many times. And like, they'd get like a couple people who
would follow them, and it'd be like a fun little thing for a while. And then like it would fizzle
out until 2017, which was the beginning of the end, when somebody was a Q anon. And I think that
their original name was like Q clearance patriot. And then it became Q anon. But it was somebody
who was claiming to have a Q level security clearance, which is like a DOE, Department of Energy,
like security clearance designation. It's like top secret. It's like, you know, up there. And
they were claiming to have direct connection to the Trump administration, then to Donald Trump
himself. And they were claiming to be leaking secret information, like from Trump to, you know,
on to this message board, and they would speak in like, kind of like code, like Hillary Clinton
was Alice. And like, it was like, follow the white rabbit. And like that meant something. And
Hussein was like the code word for Obama. And like, so they had all these like code words, and it was
like, it was an operation. And people, it got a lot of traction. And, you know, people have since
gone back and like kind of studied the history of this, which is super interesting. And they've
kind of pinpointed like three big influencers, influencers who had big like Reddit, 4chan,
and YouTube platforms, who took this from 4chan and 8chan within months of it starting,
and purposefully tried to like popularize it. And it fucking worked. And so it made it onto Reddit.
And then over the next like year or two, it really blew up. There was there were Reddit boards,
like calm before the storm was like a Q and on phrase and like all that stuff that had like
over 70,000 people on it. There were other ones that had like 20 and 30,000 people on it. So and
Reddit is a borderline mainstream website. So like it was really getting a lot of traction.
But the core of the conspiracy theory, like what Q was dropping, they were called Q drops were his
posts. Was that there's a satanic cabal of evil elites who are billionaires, billionaire elites
who are pulling the strings of international governments and economies in order to drive the
world towards an era of like one world order, which is like super vibey with like the evangelical
and world times situation. And that they were running rings of like human trafficking,
like child sex trafficking rings of like hundreds of thousands of children. And
and it was all coordinated under this like one organization, the cabal. And but they weren't
doing this just for, you know, money or something. They were satanic and they were sat they were like
sacrificing the victims as part of satanic rituals. Sometimes they said that it was like a sacrifice
to the demon god Molok who was like an owl. Sometimes it was just Satan. Sometimes the
conspiracy theory people said that they were literally like breeding children in tunnels
under every major city. Like everybody had a different flavor, right? Like and you could
pick and choose like what you believed and what you didn't believe. But like the general gist was
that there is a global cabal of people elites who are doing the most evil thing that you can
possibly think of. And the only part of everybody's in the cabal, anybody who is rich or powerful or
a Democrat is in the cabal. We're talking like obviously Hillary and Obama, they were like
way up there. Bill Gates was supposed to be like the leader. George Soros was like a leader.
But like share was in the cabal. And Tom Hanks was in the cabal, you know, just like anybody
who was like a big name. The only person who was rich and famous and was not in the cabal,
who was actively fighting the cabal, is Donald Trump. Like mono imano by himself.
I'm gonna like, I'm gonna have to like occasionally cough. I'm getting over.
Yeah, yeah, that's okay. Sinan's a little sick at the moment. That's all right.
But so that's kind of like the core of the conspiracy theory. And it's insane. It's
bonkers. But like for what it was like really taking off because it was really just kind of
leading into this general like one the evangelical in times narrative, which is like literally just
that narrative. And then this this like the anti left wing woke your mongering, you know,
so like people were just kind of like, I don't know. And so and that was all up until 2018,
2019. So we're now like two or three years into this. And it got taken down off of the internet.
H&M basically got booted off the internet because oh, I'm sorry, somebody commented
Adrena Chrome, I totally forgot about the Adrena part of the they were sacrificing their like child
victims as like a satanic sacrifice, but also to raise their adrenaline levels before they
were sacrificed. And then they would extract the oxidized adrenaline from their blood,
which is called Adrena Chrome, which is a real substance, but I'm pretty sure you
can buy it on Amazon. And they thought that this was either, they thought this was either like
a wicked high, or like an anti aging drug. And once again, I'm just like anybody who has seen
Joe Biden or Hillary Clinton lately knows that it's not an anti aging drug.
Do you know, so, so fortune, this is what I was told by my younger brother, he was right at the
right in the, okay, let me just let me just say this, you shouldn't go to fortune, but they're
there are parts of fortune that aren't as like disgusting and horrible. So when I say my little
brother went to fortune, I'm not saying he was like a creep, okay, sort of saying, but he would say
he actually was was visiting fortune or was, you know, sort was went to fortune here and there
when the flat earth stuff started to kick on before I think before QAnon started. But what was
really funny is, at least in the communities that he was a part of, it started as like a meme,
like what is something that we can get people to believe, like the rest of the world to believe,
that would just like that, that would be like a mission to see if we can trick people and see
if it actually works. So an example, one example. Okay, so one example of what fortune users did
is they went on to a game called have a hotel, and they all created black characters. And the
black characters, they all stood in the formation of a swastika. And it was like, it was, it was a
kids game. And it was like a way to like, show the world like, just just just disrupt the world to
make it like, you know, like chaos, right? Like we all came together and we did this thing. And it
made mainstream news, news, right. And then they were like, well, with with with flat earth, let's
see if we can make this flat earth thing so like popular, make it make so much sense to the right
people that people will actually believe it. And it worked. There are so many flat earthers now who
are like, out there, like, talking about their fake maths and their fake like stuff. And it all
started as a meme as a joke, to see if like people could be fooled enough to believe it. And that's
it's, it's, it's, it's hilarious. Oh, wow, we just quickly, we have a huge super chat from Noxican
Formant. We normally read the super chats at the end, but I'm going to read this one now. Thank you
so much, Neil. And Neil might be coming on the show very shortly guys, respond to the
the chats, buddy. I was still going to church when QAnon blew up around 2017. And my entire church
was obsessed. My pastor was joined by Roger Stone on his podcast. And one of the members of my church
was NIS and Assembly David Pitero. They thought Trump was chosen. Yeah, it's wild, right?
It's absolutely wild. Yeah, so
if we ever get time, we can circle back to the flat earth thing because I have a whole flat earth
tangent. But yeah, so basically, so 2017 is early. The fact that like that church was like
jumping onto QAnon that early is like that you're deep in it. Because basically in 2019,
HNN, which was hosting Q, was directly connected to at least three mass shootings,
including, yeah, the fact that people don't know this blows my mind. The big one, and I think the
first one was the Christ Church shooting, which was over in New Zealand. So like that's your part
of the world. And when that happened, when I when I heard that happened, and I heard that
everything was being leaked, I immediately went to 4chan to get my information and saw that
everyone was posting about it because I knew I was like a scumbag like this, he'd be living on 4chan
before any of the news even like was talking about it. And I went to 4chan, and sure enough,
there's all his stuff there. He was, he was, he was posting, I'm sure it made it to 4chan,
but he was posting on 8chan. And he had like, I don't know the exact specifics, but like he
had posted like a manifesto and like maybe had like videotaped part of this and like was putting
it onto this website. And then within like months, another shooting, the San Paolo,
Texas Walmart shooting happened in 2019, were also like many people died. And it was it was a
racially motivated shooting like the Christ Church one was the Christ Church was against
like Islamic mosque. This one was against like it was in a Walmart, but it was in like a heavily
Hispanic area. And then again, literally within months, a third shooting in California at a synagogue.
And all three of them were posting shit to 8chan, specifically like hyping up to it. And then like
afterwards, like posting manifestos and like referencing the Christchurch manifesto. And
so like they were literally, and like all of the comments on these posts were like
egging them on and like encouraging them. And so 8chan got kicked off the internet. They like
whoever was hosting them, I don't know how the internet works. They got like, they got super
banned. And the the guy, and there's a whole other backstory to this about who was running 8chan at
the time, because it was invented basically by a 15 year old named Frederick Brennan, who had
brittle bones disease, and who was like an absolute free speech advocate. So like, there
should be no moderation, people should be able to say whatever they want. And so he made 8chan
after after the model of 4chan. It got bought by a father and son who lived over in the Philippines.
Philippines. And they have been running it since QAnon has been a thing like since 2016 2017.
And if I can remember, like, I know their names, but it's just not coming to me.
They, the father had to testify before the United States Congress,
explaining like how his website was tied to so many mass shootings. And and then those two were
basically like going from to all these different like internet service providers trying to get
their website back up. And it took them a very long time because Q was not posting. So the QAnon
community was like losing their minds because they didn't have any drops until they did eventually
get re posted, but rebranded as 8kun. And they like Q eventually started posting again. And then
like I want to say it was right before January 6 was like one of Q's last drops. And then they came
back and they made a couple more like a year or two later. But it just hasn't like it's not really
a thing anymore. But the that was 2019 mass shootings, 8kun 8chan kind of like dismantled
shit really hit the fan in 2020 with what is what some people call pastel QAnon. And
you muted, you muted. Sorry. This is when it hit me. And this is when it like super mainstreamed.
It was around in 2017 on but it was really, it really blew up in 2020 because some again,
in like by this time they had a whole ecosystem of Q influencers people they called them bakers
because like Q would drop crumbs and then they would bake the crumbs and basically just like
interpret them, you know, the stars. And all of these like influencers had like hundreds of thousands
of followers. One of the women who's like originally responsible for like promoting QAnon
off of 8chan or off of 4chan like one of the three original people literally lives like a county
over from me. Like it's like really upsetting to just even know that. But they took the QAnon
core message and they purposefully marketed it. They rebranded it. They purposefully stole the
Save the Children hashtag. That was a legitimate organization. Save the Children is like an
actual charity that's been around since like the 1920s or something. But these like internet weirdos
took hashtag Save the Children co-opted it and started using it to spread a bunch of like child
trafficking misinformation. Ron Watkins somebody just commented it. It's Ron Watkins and the
father and the son. There was also like some sort of linguist analysis that somebody did
a year or two ago to analyzing all of the drops and things by the language to try to
figure out who Q was. And they basically said that they think that Ron Watkins has been running the
Q account for the last couple of years at least. It's not like definitive, but we basically know
who Q is at this point. And he ran for the House of Representatives for the state of Arizona. So
that's super fun for us. He didn't win, but Q himself like ran for the House of Representatives.
And Donald Trump like retweeted him aggressively, but passed all Q and on. So in the summer of 2020
they spread misinformation and instead of talking about Adrenochrome and mole children and like
these hard pill topics, which are crazy. They sound like Flat Earthers. They tried to purposefully
spread soft pills, which was basically just like we just care about child sex trafficking. And we
just are worried about like corruption in the government. And you know, we think that there's
like an elite that is like, they're not doing good things. And so that it happened in the same
summer of Black Lives Matter. And so you had all of these Christian and Mormon mommy bloggers who
are very active online, but in a very different not 4chan sphere. And they all had massive platforms
on Instagram and Facebook, like the two most mainstream platforms with like pastel, you know,
inspirational quotes and pictures of their kids and stuff. And so they took all of these like
hashtags save the children conspiracy theory misinformation about child trafficking and
started posting them on on their platforms that also had like 10s and hundreds of thousands of
people. But like under the guise of like mommy bloggers, you know, like the most normal people
that you can think of. And and child sex trafficking, human trafficking, labor trafficking,
these are all extremely real issues. But what was happening in 2020 was misinformation. It was
distracting from the real issues by promoting just made up nonsense. And I got into a I got
into a huge heated argument with kind of a he's kind of a celebrity, Australian celebrity,
online celebrity, at least in Australia called Bo Greaves. And he started posting the stuff on
he's not like super, like, you know, like, you know, he's like, he's not super, he's not like
a celebrity celebrity, but he's like, people know him. And I got into a super heated debate with him
about this stuff on his Facebook. And I kind of pointed out that what he was doing is spreading
this information. And he's and they came down to what don't you care about children and all that
stuff. But but I was kind of pointing out like, look, if there's a fire in a city, and there are
like 5000 people all calling in for different buildings, the chances of the fire department
getting to the right building is like drastically reduced. And I was like, especially if you say
the whole city's on fire, and like, they just don't know where to go. I was like, there is obviously
a problem with sex trafficking. There's obviously a problem with with pedophile rings. There's
obviously a problem with corruption in the government. There's obviously a problem with,
you know, a lot of things. But but it's it's it's like the problem with QAnon and conspiracy
theories is a point in the completely wrong direction, like they they're, you know, there's
there's a big leap from, and this is something I argue with my family a lot about there's a big
leap from the government is corrupt, they're taking, you know, bribes to pass certain projects,
versus the government is trying to kill us by putting poison in our vaccines. And they're
pretending that they're taking it themselves, but they're using fake needles, like that there's
a huge jump there. One is like, makes sense. Oh, yeah, they're being paid by the, I don't know,
forestry lobby to cut down trees or something. That makes sense. We can see the records, they
should be taken to court and tried for it. Versus, no, they want to kill everyone. Like, why?
Population control. Why? Like, and what and what stage does someone go from being a normal person
to running a very successful business, becoming a billionaire, and then therefore now,
okay, now I want to drink blood, adrenochrome, and now I'm going to start poisoning the world,
like, what stage does someone become evil? You know what I mean? Well, I mean, that just goes
into like the entire like, mind warp of white Christian nationalism, because I think that
anybody who is not a white Christian nationalist is evil. And it's all a part of this like,
in group, out group, like dynamic, because the worse you can paint the outside to be,
the better you feel about being on the inside and the more special you get to be and the more
like righteous you get to be. And that's exactly what happened with these mommy bloggers, because
they wanted to feel like moral crusaders, when everybody else was like, you know, protesting
about Black Lives Matter and stuff. But instead of jumping on BLM, because of racism and white
supremacy, they were like, you know, what's better than fighting racism, fighting child sex
trafficking. And so, and this was, and really, at piggybacked, so QAnon piggybacked on the
pizza gate conspiracy theory, because that was 2016. And then QAnon was 2017. And the pastel QAnon
hashtag, say the children thing, piggybacked on the way fair shipping conspiracy theory. So the
way fair conspiracy theory was basically just like a tick track trend for a little bit that like
got really, really popular. But then like, because there was already this like QAnon in the water
kind of situation, people like really latched onto it. And so the way fair thing got a lot of people
interested in these like trafficking conspiracy theories. And then it blew up over 2020. And
there's like a bunch of like statistics that I can't rattle off the top of my head. But
but that's exactly, go ahead. What I was going to, what I was going to ask you is, I've got some
QAnon beliefs. And I want to just see if you can add or remove any of these. This is
my research. It's so hard to find information on like just concise, clear information on this.
I'll believe the same thing. So yeah, I know, right? So this is this is some stuff I've written
down. So the preference of QAnon believe in the storm, which is an imminent event known as the
storm during which thousands of members of the Kabul will be arrested and possibly sent to
Guantanamo Bay. The deep state opposition, they claim that the deep state or secret government
within the US government is underlying Trump and his efforts. The Q drop, the movement names
comes from Q, an anonymous figure with high level government security inside dropping clues
about secret wars and online forums, child trafficking rings, which we've talked about,
the JFK conspiracy, some QAnon followers believe that John F K Jr, who died in a plane crash in
1999, faked his death and would reemerge and support Trump. The opposition to mainstream media,
which is it's a country and they believe in global elites. And so that that seems to be the main
the main crux of QAnon. But what I find, okay, what I find is also tangential to QAnon beliefs
is usually like anti-vax, usually like the moon landing was fake, 911 was inside job.
Like it's all it all comes with the same kind of the same kind of package.
So yes and no. And like, this is something that like is very, I mean, it's interesting to me,
but it's also like, I just think that we're going to spend the next century studying like
this decade. It's insane. There, there was all always French conspiracy theory believers,
the 9 11 truthers, the moon landing people. I met a flat earth or back in like 2019 before
all this stuff. And I have family members that'll fight us. And I work for a surveying and town
planning company where we literally have to put algorithms in our data recorders to compensate
for the earth's spherical like the curve of the earth. And I would tell them this, I would show
them this and then we're like, this is like blank faces. Like, yeah, anyway, but like, they have
always been around and the anti-vax movement has always been there has been an anti-vax movements
as for as long as there has been the vaccine. Like there were people protesting smallpox
vaccines. And so like these things have always been there, but they've always been French. And
I think that there's always going to be some small subset of people who believe in like the most
and same thing, like believe in lizard people. And there's always going to be those people.
But like what happens in 2020 and like with human on all of this is that facets of that became
mainstream. Now it's just like everybody believes it. And because they became susceptible to like
QAnon, they become like they become susceptible basically just to like an alternative information
environment. And so well, you know, if there's, you know, a satanic cabal of, you know, say like
whatever, then like maybe we didn't land on the moon, you know, it's like it's not that big of a
leap at that point. But I don't think that like, I don't think that in an alternate universe,
people who believe in QAnon would have ever believed in like the fake moon landing, you know,
like if this hadn't gotten so popular, like they would have never like kind of gone down that route.
Sorry.
Um, something I want to kind of point out too is the the the whole reason we're talking about this
is because you have an upcoming book. The book, let me just share your website. Can you tell us a
little bit about your book? Yes. And we'll dive into your story a little bit too, because like
this is what I want to talk about next is your story is tied up in all of this,
like like crazy. And so we'll get into that. But first, let's talk about your book is essentially,
I guess, a longer version of what we'll be talking about today, right?
So the book is basically my my journey of deconstruction, you know, another deconstruction
memoir, but from the perspective of conspiracy theories, because I deconstructed from white
Christian nationalism, because of conspiracy theories. And, and I needed to understand like
why it was the white evangelicals that were falling for these conspiracy theories. And like my
family and the people that I knew and looked up to and loved fell for these conspiracy theories
and things because they were white evangelicals. And that just like was, that was finally an
overwhelming, overwhelming isn't a big enough word level of cognitive dissonance of like,
these are good Christian people. And like, they're talking about Jewish space lasers.
And so, and it was because they were white evangelicals. So I had to I deconstructed.
I went through about two years of like dealing with all of their drama while we were planning
our wedding. And then I had a physical snap, where I was like, Oh, no, no, no, no. And then
spent the next year, basically just trying to put my feet under me did not know the word
deconstruction did not know the word ex-fangile local. I didn't know that there were people like me.
And I found a couple people on TikTok, like April a joy, who's just like making like humor
videos and like Lacey Bean and like, these people who have like, you know, hundreds of
thousands of like TikTok followers, just making jokes. And it was so weird to find people who
bought the same way that I thought. And then from them, I was able to develop a language,
I was able to find resources. And I read a bunch of books. And focusing on, you know,
I had a lot of the, the, the normal like deconstruction stuff that I had to work
through, like biblical inerrancy and like, what about hell and what about like,
homophobia and the patriarchy and like all this stuff. But I also had to work through
all the conspiracy theory shit. Like, why did they believe in conspiracy theories?
What is the connection? And what I finally found that was the best explanation for me.
Um, was when I found books on like cult psychology and the language of cult psychology,
being able to apply that, um, to the conspiracy theories, psychology, um, and the, the diagram
is a circle. Um, you know, and again, this doesn't apply to everyone because there, there are those
fringe figures who have been flatter. There's since well before 2020. And you know, I think
that they might have a little bit of something else going on, but, um, you know, for people like
my parents, like who fell for QAnon because they're white evangelicals, it is, um, it is because of
the totalistic ideology of white Christian nationalism. Um, so you ask any, ask any, um,
conspiracy, like someone who's like riding the weeds of QAnon, uh, usually like I've never met
anyone. I've talked to a lot of them and I've never met anyone who is, um, not, uh, some form of
Christian or religious. Uh, like I don't, I've even asked on Reddit, like, can you point me to,
you know, an atheist, you know, QAnon supporter because I can't, I can't find them. Uh, and it's
a big claim to say that they were, you know, they were QAnon supporters because they were evangelicals.
So I looked up a study and I'll post it right now so people can look, look it up as well.
But in the study, it kind of concluded that among the religious respondents, 17.5% expressed a
positive view of QAnon. It was highlighted that it was primarily Christians and more specifically
evangelicals Christian, evangelical Christians who support QAnon. And it's like overwhelmingly this,
this, uh, this study showed this. And as we talked about this before is, as you mentioned before is
this is a, this is a problem that is, is, um, is deadly. There was the Christchurch shooting. There
were other shootings. There were, um, people dying from, because they didn't get the vaccine or innocent
people who were dying because they didn't get vaccines. Uh, like there, there's a lot of pain
and suffering that's happening in the world under the guise of this cult-like thinking.
Um, it's wild. So why do you think it is evangelicals?
Um, yeah. So just to like, you know, give another reference on some of this stuff,
the book Taking America Back for God by, I want to say Andrew Whitehead and Samuel L. Perry.
They're sociologists and they, their book is about white Christian nationalism,
not about conspiracy theories. Um, and they're basically trying to explain like,
who are they? What do they believe? Um, and they developed a scale of like,
how white Christian nationalist you are. And then they like broke it up into four categories.
And then they asked them a bunch of follow-on questions, like, um, was the civil war fought
over slavery? Um, do you believe in voter fraud? Do you believe in QAnon? Um, are you anti-vax?
And then like a whole bunch of like other stuff, like religious stuff and like whatever. And
you know, how like, are you anti-divorce, anti-abortion, um, anti-LGBTQ, all of that. And, um, every
single one of those questions, it was a linear trend. Like the more white Christian nationalist
you were, the more you believed in these things. Like it was a one-to-one linear relationship,
which is absolutely insane to me. And when you pull up those statistics, and it's,
it's difficult because people were trying to understand what was going on and trying to study
this in real time. And, um, if you, if you find numbers on like the statistics of how many people
believed in QAnon and stuff, the answer is wildly different in 2019 to 2021 to 2023. Um,
you know, when, when you go back to like right before January 6, those numbers are a lot higher.
And, you know, I found one, um, before we were, uh, before I, we were going to talk and it said
like two thirds of QAnon believers say that that being a Christian is important to being
truly American. Two thirds, 66%. So, um, like it, it is the white evangelicals, you know,
like overwhelmingly the statistics. Is it, is it just, I know that a lot of, um, uh, like I know a
lot of, uh, like a lot of people, oh, I lost my train of thought. Do you think, is it just the
white evangelicals or is it other like Hispanic groups or, uh, black groups as well? There are
other, there are other groups. They're like, and, and, you know, nothing is monolithic. Like, of
course there are, and there's exceptions and like there are people of lots of different demographics
and like, you know, I'm not saying like it's all of them, but like it's most of them. And, um, and,
and, and it's not even really so much the real issue is not like, you know, who lives in QAnon.
It's who is a white Christian nationalist. Um, and you don't have to be white to be a
white Christian nationalist. You don't have to be white to, you know, uphold white supremacy. You
don't have to be, uh, a man to uphold patriarchy. Um, but it is mostly white. So what is white
Christian nationalism? Um, so, and again, Taking America Back for God, incredible book. I wish it
was one of the first books that I had read. Um, and there's a couple other books, um, by the same
authors like The Flag and the Cross by Samuel Perry. And, um, I just read one, another one by
Andrew Whitehead, but American exceptionalism is basically a white Christian nationalism is
for me and I was a white Christian nationalist. And so, and so personally, you know, how I define it
is how I broke out of it. And what I had to deconstruct were the two pillars of white
Christian nationalism, which is biblical inerrancy, which is kind of the heart of evangelicalism
and American exceptionalism. They believe that this is that America, and you don't have to be
American to be a white Christian nationalist. You have white Christian nationalists in Australia,
in Canada, and everywhere else, but it's a big American thing. We made it. We made it, mom. I'm
so sorry. Um, but they believe that this is, uh, like God's chosen country, that we are founded
on Judeo-Christian principles and that we are blessed, um, with unprecedented freedom and
prosperity, um, as a reward from God for our adherence to Judeo-Christian principles.
And, um, you know, and, and the statistics on this are terrifying, terrifying because, um, I want
it and different people have done different polls and things, but there was one statistic that said
80 something percent of white evangelicals believed that this country was founded on Judeo-Christian
principles and like 80 something percent believed that this country should still currently be founded
on Judeo-Christian principles. 45. So 60 percent of all Americans, not white Christians, um,
believe that this country was founded on Judeo-Christian principles and 45 percent believe
that we should currently be founded on Judeo-Christian principles. 45 percent of all Americans
believe that we should be founded on Judeo-Christian principles. Um, and, you know, uh, so the only
problem with that though is that would involve slavery because the Bible has like explicit
strings. This is what I always ask people, they bring up this stuff and I go like, okay, well,
let's look at Judeo-Christian principles. Like would slavery be okay? And they always say,
no, slavery would not be okay. And I go, okay, show me where, and the Bible, it, it, it condemns
slavery. It doesn't, you know? I have, I have within reach. All right. So this is taking America
back for God. It's incredible. This is another one, the founding myth, um, with Andrew Seidel.
He's like a constitutional lawyer and he, and this is a great book for just the, um, American
exceptionalism, exceptionalism claim. And he really combats the idea that we were founded on
Judeo-Christian principles. Um, and, um, and, and this idea that we are blessed by God for this is
the easy, that, that was the easiest thing to deconstruct for me. Um, you know, coming out of
white Christian nationalism, American exceptionalism was the first thing to go because it's so easy
with the most basic research into, um, American history to say that, oh no, we don't have unprecedented
freedom or prosperity. Um, we are, we are founded on, uh, you know, slavery and segregation and, uh,
misogyny and what we have done to Native Americans and the boarding schools. And, um, it is, and the,
the super racist and awful like immigration policies that we have had going back to the 1800s and
stuff. Um, and all of these things that, you know, I'm sure maybe I had heard parts of them
in school, but I went to a private Christian school. Um, we were not taught evolution and you can
imagine what kind of propaganda was given to us in our like history classes and they loved American
history. Um, and they worshiped the founding fathers and the pilgrims. Um, but, you know,
as an adult, now that I'm like questioning things, going back and just looking at the most basic
level of American history, um, you realize, um, that the American exceptionalism claim is just
the most ridiculous thing you've ever heard. And then the biblical inerrancy claim, which is the,
the religious side of it, the evangelical side of it, that's much harder to break out of. Um, and
it was because that is, that's like a religious belief. Um, it's a faith thing and, um, the
indoctrination runs deep. Um, but I'm like, oh my God, this is great. I'm like sitting in a pile
of my books. So I've actually just, oh, I've had that as well. So I actually just added a
recommended rating list. And as you were talking, I just added those, those books. What was that
book that you just, that you just said? This was what really helped me get out of the idea of
biblical inerrancy, how the Bible actually works is written by, um, like a theologian PhD guy.
And, um, you know, and when you are a Christian and evangelical, um, you, you can't just walk
away with from that without replacing it with something. Like you have to like, you know,
you need to understand it in order to like have another alternative alternative. And that's what
like this, this author, and then also, um, Rob Bell, he has a couple of books.
Oh, Rob Bell. Yeah, Rob Bell. Oh, I remember when he was ostracized by the whole, you know, church.
Is that the same guy? I think so. He wrote love wins. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, man. I remember
that book and he has a couple others that talk about this almost the same exact thing. And, um,
you know, what do you do with Bible? If you don't believe that it is, that it is this
non-contradictory, um, you know, perfect word of God that you were like, that has an answer to
every single one of like life's minutiae problems. Um, and, and like, what can you do with it? And
like, is there still room to like, you know, study it or respect it or get anything out of it? And
like the answer is yes if you want to. Um, yeah. But yeah. So I've just added your books, the books
that you suggested to this, um, recommended reading list. These are all the books that
are suggested on deep drinks episodes. So, um, all books that I personally recommend, mostly
from, from guests, though. So if you do want to support the channel, you can actually use
this link to buy the books and, um, if they're affiliate links, so I get like a couple of cents
from your purchase. Woo. So, um, but so let's, let's, let's, let's step right back a little bit.
Let's like, let's, let's, um, take a big sip of our, uh, negroni and let's, what was it like for
you growing up as a Christian? What kind of Christian were you? Uh, were you the kind of
Christian that believed they had a relationship with Jesus? Uh, yeah. What, did you talk to Jesus?
Were you part of a church that prayed in tongues? Did you lay on hands for healing? Like how,
how in it were you? I was, I was in it. I was thoroughly in it. Um, so I got a little
amuse-bouche sampling of all kinds of evangelical Christianity. Um, I, my family went to a Calvary
Chapel, which is, um, a non-denominational, like cool kids, like wannabe mega church,
like California, beautiful people. Um, everybody's wearing like board shorts and they had like a
rock band, like non-denominational church, which basically just means like Southern Baptist
theology, but like prettier. And, um, I went to a private Christian school for elementary and
middle school, which was, um, basically just like straight up a white Christian nationalist
indoctrination, uh, school. Uh, it was attached to a different non-denominational, uh, evangelical
Protestant church. Um, the mascot was the Patriots, like the 1776, like Revolutionary War Patriots.
We had Plymouth Day every year where we would very, very racistly dress up as Native Americans,
um, or pilgrims. And we, like we, they literally, I remember this and it's so weird for me to
remember this and I don't know why I do, but we had, they had Ken Ham, um, the Young Earth
Creationist come speak at our school, like as an invited lecturer when I was in like
kindergarten or first grade. And I remember going to that.
He did his, his science training. Um, well, he actually did do science training, but he did
that only an hour from my house here in Brisbane. So he Ken Ham trained at, um, I think it was QT,
it was, it was two, it was one or two universities in Brisbane. And then we exported him to, uh,
to America. You're welcome. No. Uh, so like, like that, that was like, you know, I'm like no evolution,
no sexual education, like all of that. Um, and then for, when I got a little bit older,
when I was 12, I met my best friend. Um, nah, all right. I met my best friend and, um, she went to
a true Southern Baptist church. And so I would go with her to youth group there on weeknights.
Um, and through her and through a couple of the families at the private Christian school that
we went to and a bunch of families at that Southern Baptist church, they were all affiliated with
IBLP, which is, um, the Institute and Basic Life Principles cult that was run by Bill
Gotherd. Um, the shiny happy people documentary on Amazon Prime just came out and it is phenomenal.
If you don't know it, it's the Duggar family, the 19 kids and counting show. They were all
involved in IBLP and, um, hyper-patriarchy, um, like the theological school of thought was like
reconstructionism, like after Roussos, Rush Dooney, um, Bill Gotherd, like, followed that
and it's stuff, the unrelative authority. A mutual friend, Sydney Davis Jr. went to the same church as
the Duggars. Right. Yeah. Um, Sydney Davis Jr. Jr. Yeah. Um, yeah, wild. That's wild.
Um, I, I had friends. It's so funny because like how like, like, it was such a small world.
All interconnected condo. Oh yeah. Because like, I had friends who were like taking selfies
with like the Duggar sisters at camps and things at the summer and like they'd come home and like
show me like the pictures with the Duggar girls because they were like celebrities for us and
it was a one foot in, one foot out situation. It was very weird because my family had no direct
contact with any of that. Um, we did not homeschool. We went to that private Christian school. Um,
but all of the, all of my friends were homeschooled and they were like using the ATI, IBLP homeschooling
program and like all of the girls were going to like IBLP summer camps and I remember at my
friend's house seeing like Bill Gotherd VHS sermon tapes. Um, and I'm really dating myself with the
VHS reference, but, um, like it was that kind of stuff is hyper fundamentalist. Girls can't
wear more than two finger wits below the collarbone for necklines. You can't show your shoulders. So
you have to wear floor length skirts. Like I don't even know if they were allowed to wear pants.
Like it had to be skirts. Like you're not supposed to cut your hair, which is very like F L F,
fundamentalist, otter day things. Um, and, um, like that stuff was like hyper hyper hyper creepy.
Um, but again, it was like, it was peripheral. Like I, my family wasn't in it. Like I, it was
just like everybody I knew was and, but like those were still the moms who were like running our
Bible studies and like teaching in our schools. And like, I remember the weekend that I met my
best friend, uh, we were 12 and I was at like a weekend Bible summer camp for girls only called
girls on fire for Jesus with like a Z and the number four. It was awful. Yes. I love, I love.
Yeah. Even as a 12 year old, I was like, this is so cringe. Um, wait, wait, sorry. I need to get
some cringe out there as well. I used to run a small group when I was an emerging leader called
the impact. Um, what was it? It was an acronym or whatever. It was a, it was, uh,
uh, something, uh, it was like, the impact was like, um, something about like impacting, you
know, a powerful group of teen Christian teens or something. Um, and it was just like, oh, it was,
yeah. And like things we would do is like, we'd get him in a room of like, draw a picture of God,
you know, like, what do you think God is? And everyone would draw like this and
like all like, these were like grade seven, like grade seven, funny enough. One of them
is now my boss. So yeah. One of them is now my boss. What is so funny? We talk about all this
stuff all the time. It's wild. Yeah. It's, it's, uh, it's wild. That is, that's insane. Um, yeah.
Yeah. Uh, I remember at this one specific event, like they had us like in a public park at the
beach and like we were like chanting, um, good news and good news out. That's what the Bible's
all about. Bad news and bad news out. That's what the world is all about. And like, like having to
chant that in public was like so embarrassing. Um, sorry, but do you remember the song? Yeah. Do you
remember the song? Uh, blessed would be the name. Blessed would be the name of the Lord. Yeah. Yeah.
I'm turning paid. Sorry. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, so there's a line in there that goes, um, he gives and takes
away. He gives and takes away. Um, yeah. Uh, my heart will say blessed is the name of the Lord.
And, um, one of the, one of the staff members was like, I weren't singing the lyrics of that part
of the song. And we're like, why? It's like, cause God doesn't take away. And we're like, okay.
And I was like, but it's a, that's a, that's a, that's a scripture. Like they're quoting one for
one of the scripture. And I was like, and I was like, even on the staff level, like people were
making up their own religions. Like, yeah. Yeah. Um, so many like public like dance moves and things.
Oh yeah. But anyway, um, at that, uh, at that camp, because you, you've said speaking in tongues
and things, I remember like the, like the two mothers who were leading it were two of the most
IBLP related moms that I knew, like, um, didn't believe in birth control kind of like IBLP moms.
And, um, sorry.
Like, get behind me, Sidon.
Yeah. Uh, I call you out on the day of Jesus.
Yeah. Yeah.
And, um, like they had us all like kind of spread out and we're in, in the grass at the beach,
in the park, at the park of the beach. And they asked us, um,
like they talked to us about speaking in tongues and that if we wanted to speak in tongues, like
God would let us and that we should all pray silently to ourselves because it's a very personal
spiritual experience, um, that the Holy Spirit would like allow us to speak in tongues or whatever.
And, um, basically the implication with all of this, and like, you know, I heard this multiple
other times too, but the implication is like, if you're not speaking in tongues, then like you
maybe aren't real, maybe you're not a real Christian. Maybe you're not actually saved. Maybe your name
is not written in the Lamb's Book of Life and you're going to be left behind the rapture. Talk
about rapture anxiety, but basically like, you know, if you can't speak in tongues, then maybe
you're not like a real Christian. And like this one girl, uh, who was the, like an IBLP daughter,
was just like, I speak in tongues all the time. I'm embarrassed to say, but I was, I was actually
very scared for my wife because I knew she hadn't spoken in tongues. Um, and I would like
subliminally pressure her, I guess, to be like, you should get baptized in the spirit. Like,
you know, like you should, you know, just think about it. Maybe you think about letting the
Holy Spirit into your life. Like, like I didn't say anything like that. I never like fully pressured
it, but I definitely, like it was definitely concerning for me because I was like, what,
like, she's just not going to make the cut because like the Bible says like what you have to be,
unless you were born of water and the spirit, you will not enter eternal life. So I was like,
okay, well, that seems pretty clear. Yeah, it's terrifying. It's built on so much fear,
but like I was in it. The point is that I was in it. Okay. Like we had like, you know, when we
went to the beach, you had to wear a t-shirt over your bathing suit. Um, like they don't make us men
stumble. Don't want to make them stop. You don't want, you as a 14 year old do not want to have
your like 45 year old creepy like church uncle like lusting after you and, um, you know, and like
missionary trips on in the summers. Um, I did like a, I did like a six week like Bible college
program over like the summer when I was like 18 or something. Um, and, uh, you know, just like
Bible camps and like church camps and like purity seminars and like I got it all. Um,
but again, it was weird because my family was, they were even dug up. They were putting me
into all of this stuff, but we weren't related to IBLP and they were like almost more like
like white nationalists than like white Christian nationalists. Um, they, they weren't evangelical.
Like I said, they put us into the private Christian school and like they were very much
evangelical, but like, um, you know, my friends, moms were like, uh, women belong in the kitchen.
Uh, but my mom was like a firefighter. And so, um, it was just like a slightly different
perspective. She had had a real life experience. She had always been a Christian, I think. Um,
but she hadn't been like super fundamentalist about it. And when she was younger, um, she lived
on her own, hyper independent, had been engaged or been proposed to like eight times. Um, you know,
and, um, she had had abusive relationships and she had seen her friends stuck in abusive
relationships and things. And so, you know, she always told me, um, you know, it was, it was a lot
of cognitive dissonance and it was a lot of mixed messages, which is a problem. Um, because it was
like, you should, um, don't be like a slut. Uh, you know, uh, never like kiss anybody. Um, you
should like wait for your God to send you a husband. Like you're gonna, like God has a special
husband for you. But at the same time, she was just like, you should go on a lot of dates and
like you should, um, you know, you should meet a lot of guys just like don't get attached. Um,
never trust a man. You know, like a man can always leave you. Um, she said that you can be
married for 15 years and have three kids and he can still walk away. You need to have something
of yourself that you can always fall back on. You need to have an education. Um, and if you want to
be a stay at home mom or something afterwards, like that's fine, but like something that you
can always fall back on. And so none of my friends were getting that message. None of them were
encouraged for higher education. None of them went to college. If they did go to college,
they went to Bible college specifically to find a Bible husband. And I was the only one where my
mom was like, no, you better be fucking good at math. And, uh, naturally, I think I just like
bent that way anyway. Like I was like, I was like the straight least, like, which is, you know, a
super funny thing too, right? Like follow the rules and like, you know, be the good Christian girl
or whatever, but like also get straight A's and like all this stuff. And so I got to go to a public
high school kind of, and then I got to go to a secular university and people literally told my mom,
when I went to college, people came up to her and were like, you're out of your mind.
You know, she's, she's so sheltered. She's going to go off to this like,
worldly secular Satanist school. It was the University of Florida and, um, it's going to be
girls gone wild and she's going to go crazy and like all this stuff. It didn't fucking happen.
The craziest thing I did in undergrad, we didn't drink until we turned 21, me and my roommate.
And we like, we hid the Harry Potter books in our bedroom. Like that was
rebellion. This girl that I, oh my God, this girl that I kind of liked, we liked each other,
we weren't dating, but we kind of liked each other. She would bring the last Harry Potter book
to church and she would read it without the, the cover on because it looked like a Bible.
So she'd be in the pews and I was just like, I was not approving of that at all,
but she'd be reading it in the pews. Oh my God. Where is she? Can we be best friends?
But, um, she was just like, I gotta find out what happens. But so, uh, so were you, were you
quiet? Like, were you yourself? Like you, you're going to this girl, girl's called once wild kind
of school. When you kind of like, well, so they say, were you worried? Did you think that, um,
you needed to, like we, uh, protect yourself? Were you quite pure? Like, or were you like
secretly like, you know, hooking up with people in fifth grade or like, what was that? Absolutely
not. Absolutely not. Um, no, I was a good girl. Um, I did not like to be told what to wear. Um,
like, it's, it's Florida. It's 105 degrees. Like I'm going to wear a short whatever. Um, I'd,
I'd wear two piece bathing suits and my parents always let me, and that was like the scandal
of the town, like that I would wear a bathing suit. Um, but like when I went to college, like,
no, I was very much indoctrinated. I was very much like, didn't drink until I was 21.
My family like drank alcohol. So like when I turned 21, I was like, I'm allowed to drink. I was
like, Jesus, like literally fucking made wine. So, uh, I'm going to drink. Um, I love your voice.
Um, and so like, but I didn't, I didn't date. Um, and, and I, I, my roommate was a girl who had
gone to the private Christian school with me since when kindergarten, she was also like equally
indoctrinated. Her parents were even more strict than mine were in some ways. Um, she was allowed
to date though. And then, um, we immediately found like a church to go to, um, for like
freshmen sophomore year. And that one was like a very Pentecostal church. Like that one was,
we went to one Sunday service because usually we would just go to like the, like Friday night,
like college age service. Um, but we went to like one Sunday service where they were literally like
bopping you on the forehead, being like, Lord, like the Holy Spirit. And I was just like,
not for me. Um, but like, you know, I saw it, it was there. And you know, and I didn't, I didn't
think that it was wrong because I was just like, you know, I was taught that like,
you could be healed, you could speak in tongues. Like I was taught that these things could happen.
And so I just didn't, I just, I didn't, I don't know. So, um, no, very much indoctrinated,
very much straight laced. When I, junior, senior year, my degree got much more difficult.
And I spent much more time like on the school stuff. And like, I kind of stopped going to
that church as much. Um, but I, and I would go out and I would drink and we would go to the bars
and things, but like, I would never like, I would never, I didn't, I didn't, I didn't have my first
kiss until I was like 21 maybe. Um, and that was basically just like, I'm, I'm doing it.
Like that's, that's great. Did, did, did you, um, you're, you're married now, right?
And part of your deconstruction happened. Yeah, I married my first boyfriend. So, uh,
no, I'm not girls gone wild. Um, oh, okay. That's, that's, that's great. So did you guys have like a,
not to get too personal, but do you guys have like a pretty traditional Christian,
um, relationship? Like, did you kind of, uh, take things quite slowly and, uh, like,
when you eventually did start having sex, was it like,
was it something, was it a weird navigation because of like how the purity culture kind of
affected you and things like that? Um, I, like told him from the beginning and that was, that was
like a big thing for me was that like, you know, I had to be, like, I had to be very upfront, like
from the beginning. I was just like, you know, like, I don't believe in sex before marriage.
Like, you know, I'm like, we, we would like make out and stuff, but I was like, I can't do it.
Like I can't do anything. Um, and like, I thought that, you know, he would not,
because he wasn't an evangelical. He wasn't a fundamentalist and, um, and, you know, he,
I thought that like most of the time, like guys are not going to be interested in like that unless
they're from the, that like system. And so, um, I don't, I think I just, I tricked him for long
enough into thinking that I was normal. Yeah. So no, but like the, the purity culture thing, like,
um, super fucked me up. Uh, and I'm, I'm still probably like dealing with like a lot of,
oh yeah. And since deconstructing, I really haven't like dealt with, um, like I didn't deal with it
until really I deconstructed and stuff. And so reading books like, um, Jesus and John Wayne,
obviously that's like the evangelical Bible, um, and like hashtag church too. And like these,
these stories of like, um, how, because I believed up until probably like 28, 29 years old until,
until 2020 in the conspiracy theory stuff. Um, I believe that purity culture was a good thing
and that that was like the right thing to do. Um, and it wasn't until you really look into it that
you find out that like, no, it is riddled with like sexual abuse and, um, physical like,
like spousal abuse and, um, just like all of the worst things possible. Um, so yeah, no, it was,
um, I was very much in it basically. Yeah. So a bit of my story is I, I was, uh, I was,
I had slipped with my high school girlfriend and one other person, um, but only a handful of times.
And then, um, yeah. And then, uh, and then when my wife and I married, like she was a virgin
on our wedding night and when we married, uh, when we started having sex and stuff,
I would have tremendous anxiety leading up to having sex and after having sex for nine times out
of 10. Uh, and I was like, what's going on here? Like took year, like even now, like even now a
little bit, but it took like, it's been 10 years, but like it was, uh, I came down to purity culture
like after so long sex was always associated with shame or guilt, uh, or not sex, but like
lost for thoughts, um, you know, masturbation, things like that were all connected with guilt.
And so now when the, and also it was a very like shameful private space. And now that I'm
introducing a second party into this, now it's like, it's like, how do you, how do you navigate
this? This like, this thing is, is a, I really think purity culture like fuck me up. Um,
and a lot of people focus on like how it affected women because like, you know,
in, in patriarchy, we were definitely like the targets, but like it fucked men up too. And
oh yeah, there's such a, like the quote at one of the ends of the episodes of the shiny happy
people documentary where, uh, the guy is like, um, you know, it forced men to be tiny household gods.
Um, and like that is, was something I was like, like, that's it because, you know, you were given
so much shame and guilt and stuff as well. But then, um, also told that like, you know, you
have to like perform on like this level and you have to be like this, this like this figure in
the home that is, you know, and you're an island. And now they're, you know, they're talking about
an epidemic of male loneliness and like all the stuff that like the patriarchy has literally
just created. And I think, and then this is like a hot take, but like, um, when you look at like
the Josh Duggers of the world, um, who were raised in these, uh, highly fundamentalist groups and
you're told like, don't think about your sister's boobs, don't think about your sister's boobs.
Uh, like, what are you going to do? You know, you're going to think about your sister's boobs.
And so, like, uh, you know, I feel like it's almost creating these predators and there are stories
from like, when I looked back on my childhood, I didn't realize like how abusive and how toxic
some of the situations had been. But then when I looked back, I was like, Oh my God,
I saw that growing up. Oh my God, I saw that growing up. Um, there was a girl who was,
um, my friend went to like one of these IBLB camps and this girl, um, was like 18 or 19 years old
because we were 18 or 19 years old and she had confided in my friend that her to be husband.
And this is, she said, God told me he's my husband, so I have to marry him. Um, had been having
sexual relations with things on his farm and, uh, she was having to reconcile herself to having
to marry him. She had never held a boy's hand because she had been told that like her value
was a human being rested in her purity, but she needed to reconcile like with the idea of marrying
a man who had done these things. And like the double standard and like the, just like it's,
it sets you up when you have absolutely no sexual education and, uh, like absolute or no
education at all. Uh, when you're talking about some of these homeschooled groups, um, you know,
it sets you up to like be basically like fucked up.
I'm going to, I'm going to do, we're going to do something, um, right now. Um, and I'm going to,
I'm going to get you to participate, um, and everyone else in the, in the comments to participate.
Okay. I'm going to start a timer on my phone for 30 seconds. Okay. And in that 30 seconds,
I want everyone to like close their eyes or try or whatever, become in a non-destructive
environment. And you're going to spend all of your attention trying not to think of a pink
elephant. Okay. We're going to look for 30 seconds. Okay. And I'll, I'll count us down and I want you
to count every time your mind thinks of a pink elephant. All right. And we're going to do that
for 30 seconds. So I'll, I'll, uh, I won't do it because I'm doing this, but everyone else can try
and then comment how many times you thought of a pink elephant. So we're going to do this in,
so 30 seconds in three, two, one, go.
Okay. 30 seconds. How'd it go? I'm pretty sure that I just thought about a pink elephant the
entire time. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So everyone comment how many times you thought of a pink
elephant? I want to, I want to, I want to, I want to, um, see, three. Wow. That's not, that's not
bad. 15. Okay. Yeah. It's, it's interesting. I did this with my psychologist. Um, and, uh, two, two, six.
Okay. Just one dog is about a pink elephant. Once for, once for 30 seconds, five. Yeah,
not bad. Yeah. Once for 30 seconds. That's me. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's, um, yeah, it's really
interesting. Uh, so, um, just quickly, can you tell us about, um, how did you meet your partner?
Tender. I'm also dating myself with Tinder because now I know it's hinge, but
back then it was Tinder. Yeah. Right. And so did, do you remember the first conversation you had,
um, with him? No, um, no, that's so sad. I don't really remember. Uh, it was, it was very typical.
It was very flirty. Um, but, you know, I've made it very obvious that like, you know, and I was,
I was on Tinder basically to meet people, um, because I was also very busy with like my degree
and stuff. And so, and it's a very small department. So it's not like I've like met a ton of people.
Um, but, you know, I made it very obvious when I was on Tinder that like, I'm not using this
as like a hookup app. You know, I'm using this like a dating app. And so like that's, um, and,
and back then a lot of people were using it as just a dating app as well. So, um, it worked out. But
well, I did actually want to know about that. But in the last 30 seconds, how many times do
you think about the pink elephant? I haven't. I didn't actually. Exactly. Right. So it's,
it's, it's interesting. But like, I think that is a huge part of the purity culture and, and
everything to do with blasphemous thoughts or thoughts that are bad. The more you try and
push them down, the bigger and stronger they grow. It's like, it's a huge problem. I think
that's within Christianity. And that's like, that's a line that I have in my book somewhere
where it's like the hyper fixation on the suppression of sexuality is still a fixation on
like sex and sexuality. You know, it like, you're still thinking and talking about it,
like literally nonstop. And like, I literally think that they preached purity to us more
than they preached the gospel. You know, after I hit like 10 years old or whatever,
every single sermon and every single weekend, especially when it was like an all girls group,
it was about purity. So it's all they think and talk about. And it's all fear based.
So do you remember the moment where you started getting these, these invitations into the Q
and on circle when you started, not as an elite, but when you started to notice that it was a real
problem? Because you, you went through university, you got a degree. You can't, you, what university
is really good for is teaching how to think. You can't just like, write a, write a paper on
something and be like, Oh, yeah, this is, you know, this is my idea. You've got to like,
instantiate every single thing that you're, you're saying you're going to have references
all throughout your papers. And so it teaches you that you need to like, I guess, have like a
worldview of thought and idea and you need to like, how do you justify that idea? And it goes
right, you know, you can even go right back to like, how do I justify my existence, me,
my brain? I think therefore I am like, it gets really philosophical if you go deeper. So, so,
how you have this education, how did you go from having this education to people coming up to you,
trying to tell you about 5G and its negative effects as a nuclear engineer? How does that happen?
Yeah. It's rude. And basically, I, my degree, I, because I did some like dual enrollment classes
in high school and stuff. So I didn't have to take some of, like, I took some of the, like,
humanities and social science classes in, at the community college before I transferred.
So maybe it would have been a little bit different, but I don't really think that it was
because I still had a STEM degree. I had an engineering degree. So most of my stuff was
focused on like, physics and calculus and, you know, like the nuclear stuff. So I wasn't taking
a lot of philosophy classes. I didn't take any political science or like sociology classes,
like I had the most rudimentary level of knowledge on any of those subjects, like,
really good at math. And that's all I got. And so like, it didn't do a lot to shake my indoctrination
because of the degree that I was in. And, you know, when I talk to my parents now, I get the
classic Fox News, like talking point of, well, my dad said this to me, and it actually, this upset
me like so greatly, because my brother, my mom, my dad, all of them at one point or another. So I
know that they're all talking about this together have told me that I've been brainwashed by higher
education. And my dad told me that if we had to do it over again, we wouldn't send you to that school
being the University of Florida. And, and again, I have a degree in engineering, you know, I'm not
like a, I wasn't brainwashed into anything. And I was like, calculus does not turn you into a
communist or a homosexual. Like, there's, like, it's not having those common homosexuals. Yeah.
Yeah, the calculus to like, commie pipeline is unreal. But so, you know, and like, for me,
they had told me my whole life growing up, like, education was like such a big deal. And it was
like, you need to get an education, you need to need to get straight A is you need to do the best
you can. And like, for me, it was part of like, making my family proud that like, I would try to
do as best as I could. And then for me to have finished all of that, and then for them to immediately
turn around and spit on all of my accomplishments and say, like, if we had to do it over again,
we wouldn't send you to that school is just so profoundly disrespectful. And, but basically,
I made it through the whole thing, like totally indoctrinated. I didn't question the thing. And
it wasn't until 2020 where like, and I recognized growing up, like, high school on,
I feel like my family got much more radical on the political side of things, much more like,
hyper Republican. And it was because it was around the time that I went into high school
that Obama became the president. And so they got like, super, super racist about Obama. And they,
you know, he's secretly a Muslim, and he's trying to like infiltrate the country from the highest
levels in order to undermine our Judeo Christian country and like all this stuff. And, you know,
and I reckon, like, and they said that like, Oh, he wasn't born in the US, he was born in Kenya
or whatever. And I was completely politically unengaged, did not know anything. And I'm like,
you know, a ninth grader. And, you know, I just remember saying like, Well, I don't know, like,
my parents said that he wasn't even born here. And I didn't get into political debates or anything,
because I didn't know anything. But like, my parents said that stuff. And so I generally kind
of believed them. But as I got older, I was like, No, Obama's not a secret Muslim. I don't think so.
And then like, as I got older, there were other things where they started getting a lot more guns.
They started like, basically preparing for the apocalypse, like they had, like, they have five
acres, they thought that they were going to have to like farm their land when like Obama like
established some sort of like communist dictatorship. They had like buckets of seeds and things. I knew
one family from that Pentecostal church that I went to an undergrad that had an actual underground
bunker. And so like, that stuff, I was like, Okay, no, this, this is crazy. And then like, you know,
there was, they had some conspiracy theories about like the Fukushima nuclear reactor accident
in like 2011 or whatever. Meanwhile, I'm in school for nuclear engineering. And they don't
ask me about it at all. They just like, they're running around a farmer's market telling everybody
that we're about to like walk into a nuclear famine. And I'm just like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
like chasing them around like, and, and so like, that kind of stuff, I was like, that's a conspiracy
theory. Like that's, that's not true. And then, but like, I never, yeah, I have the same feeling
with my like flat earth family. I'm like, you know, I measure the earth, right? Like, like,
you know what I mean? Like, like, it's so frustrating. Because it's like,
like, we have to like, there was this white, this is why I think that happened in surveying for a
while, right? Where that all they are, all their coordinate systems went off, because there was
a wiggle in the earth's orbit. And they're like, where the, what the fuck? Like, why is like, every
GPS system around the world just screwing up? And it was because China had built a dam so big,
that it put a wobble in the earth's orbit. And we had to then put algorithms in the,
we had to like, change the algorithms to compensate for the wiggle that was in the orbit
of the earth. Don't put this on YouTube, because you're spawning new conspiracy theories. I can
feel them. We're talking like, you know, you're talking millimeters, you're talking, oh, sorry,
one, five hundredth of an inch, or whatever you guys are, you know, four, 20th, the sort of, you
know, a, you know, small elephant, like whatever you guys use over in America. But for measurements,
all I'm hearing is that China is trying to wobble us into communism.
Yeah, that's it. It wasn't a big deal. It was just like, everyone was like confused why
everything was a little off, like a few seconds off. Yeah, it's wild. And something else I just
kind of want to touch on. We've had people recently tell us, friends and family tell us that the end
of the world is coming. It was meant to happen a couple of weeks ago. And I was like, okay,
we watched a few of their videos to try and, you know, we've got to prepare. I missed the end of
the world that was going to happen in COVID. So, you know, I want to make sure I get this end of
the world, at least I get to attend. And the videos were, and I'm sorry, this is going to offend,
I might offend you, I might offend the American audience, but there is this obsession with the
conspiracy people in America, these conspiracy Christians who believe the end is coming,
that America plays this like phenomenal role in everything. It's wild to me. Like they'll say,
I think one of the justifications was because Trump moved the embassy from Jerusalem to something
like Israel, Palestine, I can't remember, he moved it back to the Israeli side, I can't remember.
But because that happened, that was the equivalent of like a Messiah being like the coming off,
like it was the equivalent of like this big thing. And I was like, America, like you're not
that important. Like I understand, like 13% of the world doesn't even speak English. I mean,
sorry, 13% of the world speaks English. What is it? 87% of the world doesn't even speak English.
Like you couldn't communicate with half the world. Like that's wild. Like we have this, and even
Australia is the same. Like we see America as like, you know, the grandfather of Australia,
we kind of copy everything you guys do. And we see things from a very Australian perspective.
But again, we're such a small chunk of the world, like this doesn't matter. Like we're not
it's not like it's America, like Trump says something. And then therefore, it's like gospel,
like therefore it's fact, therefore, like, you know, the Messiah is returned or you know, it's
just it's just wild. Anyway, continue. It's so it's just like overwhelmingly like, I don't know,
narcissistic or like egotistical. Yeah, like that. It's just so dumb. It's just dumb. Yeah.
The whole Israel thing is narcissistic as well. Like why did why did God choose one group of people
and put them in one part of the world, a crap part of the world, if you ask me, like in regards to
like, what's going on there at the moment, but like, why, why would God do that? Like, it just
seems like Mormons, the Mormons believe the same thing, like literally every single group
thinks that like they're God's special boy. But I don't know. But the so like, so basically,
the point was that I was fully indoctrinated, fully on board.
I did not like certain things, but I had not thought about them. I had not thought deeply
about anything. I had not questioned anything. I was not like, I was not a skeptic. I was not like,
oh, I had like my doubts and things like, no, I was pretty much like, I wasn't going to church,
like occasionally I would force my husband who grew up Catholic to go to a evangelical church,
like trying to find a church home here. And like, I just never liked them. I never fit in.
And I always thought that it was just because I was like an engineer, because I'm not like one
of those like, oh my God, I love you. Like when you walk into a new church, like the pastor's
daughter, like love bombs you. And like, that's always rubbed me the wrong way. And I thought
that it was like, because I was like, you know, an engineer. But like, I think that maybe that was
kind of like my subconscious being like, this isn't right, you know, that's love bombing,
that's literally like a cult tactic. But you know, I was still fairly indoctrinated. And then 2020
happened. You know, I had seen some conspiracy theories and things growing up. But for the most
part, I just believed that it was my parents, their old people, if they believe some crazy
things, like it doesn't really matter. Or like, if it's a political thing, like they just know
something that I don't, because I don't know anything about politics. So like, either it doesn't
matter, or they no more than I do. And then 2020 happened. And my best friend will call her Kathy,
that bitch. Kathy is the one who like taught English and Taiwan with IBLP, who had the Bill
Gothard VHS tapes, who I met at that like speaking in tongues, like Girls on Fire for Jesus event,
like Kathy's been my best friend since we were 12, like literally like, she was family to me. And
she was driving through town during the pandemic. So it was July of the 2020,
2020, July of 2020, during the first big spike, the summer spike of the virus here in the US.
And we did not have vaccines. And people really didn't know what was going on. It was during like
one of the first big like shutdowns and stuff. And I was an essential worker. So I was still
having to go into work and stuff. She came, she had been planning to stay with us for like a night
or two since before the pandemic. And I told her, I was like, look, you can still stay with us if
you want, because you need a free place to stay. But please like understand that like,
I'm potentially exposed at work. So like, if you're not comfortable with that, I understand.
And typically when people come to visit, we do like the whole touristy thing, we like,
we go out to all the restaurants and we see all the tourist attractions and stuff. But like,
obviously, there's a panorama going on. And we're going to have to, you know, we're not going to be
able to do any of that. And so she comes and she says she gets out of her car. The very first
thing that she says to me is, do I need a face mask? And I was like, yeah, like it was a weird
question. And at this time, and it's really difficult to fathom now. I didn't know what QAnon was.
We didn't know that there was going to be a massive anti-vax movement or a massive anti-vax
movement. And like, so it was just a weird comment at the time. And so I was like, yeah,
you need a face mask. And she was like, oh, this is the first time I've ever worn a face mask.
And it was in July. And I was just like, okay, that's weird. And then we go inside.
And she spends the rest of the weekend making fun of us for taking COVID seriously.
And like, her best friend, who was a girl that I had met one time,
she had been, she met her teaching English in Taiwan with IBLP. So this was a girl who
was in that sphere as well. But her family was more deeply involved in IBLP. And
she had been posting all weekend on Instagram, all of these crazy like memes, like pastel QAnon
memes about child sex trafficking and how face masks are child abuse and face masks are slavery.
And, you know, talking about like pedophilia for some reason, and Donald Trump and 5G radiation
and patriots, and like, none of these words meant anything to me at the time, because we didn't
know what QAnon was. And, you know, I told my friend, Kathy, I was just like, yo, like, have
you seen your friends Instagram? Like, she's gone off the deep end. Like, those were my words. I
was like, she's gone off the deep end. And she just like Kathy was like, not bothered. She was
just like, I don't know. And like, she was like, oh, you don't believe in any conspiracy theories.
And I was just like, what is what does that mean? Like, was there a second shooter that on the
no, the grassy no, like, I don't know. And so it was just weird. It was just weird. And then the
very next day, like she leaves the next day. She sends me a voice message that literally changed
my life. And like, this was this is the beginning of the end for me, because she sent me a voice
message that said, Oh, hey, like, because we've been talking about conspiracy theories, I thought
that you might think that this is interesting. My best friend at this church that she went to
in our hometown, and it was very, it was very much more of like a Pentecostal church, like very much
more like laying of hands and healing and things. My best friend at this church that I go to told
me that when the vaccines come out, they're going to be full of secret metal, and that the metal
in your blood is then going to interact with 5g radiation in order to control your mind and make
you vote Democrat or kill you. She wasn't sure which one and make you even then it's like,
why is like, this is a global vaccine? Like, why is it going to make one like
one 5g radiation? Like, what are you talking about to mind control? Like, just all of this,
just like whatever. And so like, she tells me this and I'm like, Oh, my God, that's so funny.
Like your friend found this thing on my 4chan or some crazy website. And like,
it's like a funny story. And she was like, No, she believes this. And I lost my shit.
I'm texting her and it's a text. Like, this is almost verbatim. I was like, you need to question
all of your life choices for tolerating the existence of this person, let alone being friends
with them. And if anybody that you know, other than me says the word radiation to you, you need
to slap them and walk away. And then I called her friend a smooth brain. And then Kathy, this
bitch has the audacity to be offended by that. Her only response, I just don't like this whole thing.
And she was like, I think that's a bit harsh. And I was like, I don't, I don't think that you get to
tell me the 5g radiation is going to control my mind and expect me not to react with violence.
Like we've met before, like what are you talking about? And so like at this point,
I am now concerned. Now I'm worried. Now I'm paying attention. Because Kathy is my age. She is not
she's not my boomer uncle. She's like, she's 27, 28 at the time. Gorgeous. She's batshit crazy,
but she possesses the grace of a flower in the wind. And so she's like, I now start paying
attention. I'm watching what she's posting. I'm watching what her friend from IVLP is posting.
And at the same time, I'm now starting to get messages from just random people. Like
my other friend's mom was like sending me stuff. My mom was sending me stuff. I was seeing people
posting things on Facebook. My friend's mom sent me a video. It was like, I don't know who it was,
but it was a pastor somewhere in Georgia, who was at a pulpit talking about George Soros and Bill
Gates and and literally QAnon, like literally talking about a cabal from from the pulpit.
And I didn't know what that meant at the time. I didn't know what QAnon was. And I was like,
this is and I didn't I don't think I replied. I was like, that's crazy. And then my mom
starts sending me videos from Simone Gold and Judy Mikovits. So
these names are like hyper triggering for me, but you probably don't know who they are.
So Judy Mikovits is the woman who was like the star interviewee for the Plandemic documentary.
So in the rise of QAnon with the pandemic, so basically like 2020 was like the worst year ever
for QAnon because of three things. One, you have the pandemic. So that like massively soft pill,
the bunch of people into conspiracy theory, anti-vax like propaganda, and then that pushed
them down the rabbit hole into other conspiracy theories. That was at the beginning of 2020.
Then in the summer of 2020, you had pastel QAnon, you had the Wayfair shipping conspiracy
theory and like all these child sex trafficking misinformation conspiracy theories. And then
at the end of 2020, you had the voter fraud. You had the Donald Trump, Joe Biden election voter fraud
conspiracy theories. And so it was just like bam, bam, bam. And it like rapidly took everybody
into this like just alternate information media space. And basically one of the big things that
really launched the anti-vax movement was this documentary called Plandemic. And one of the
people, and it was this doctor, Judy Mikovits, who had worked with Fauci in some of his like,
she was like a research scientist, like a doctor research scientist, and she had actually done
some like good work or whatever. But it's very similar to the origin story of Andrew Wakefield,
who was like the OG like 1995 anti-vax movement guy. They had a study. They thought that they
had solved something super incredible, like connecting autism to vaccines or in her case,
connecting autism to like this other virus. And then they published a paper and it got debunked.
The peer review process worked. They like had counter studies and they were like, no, we think
that it was like lab contamination or we think that like, you know, there was some sort of
scientific flaw. And it got debunked. And normally you just you move on be like, oh, okay. But
Judy Mikovits was like, no, I'm being persecuted. She was also like a hyper evangelical talking
about like, you know, like she goes on all these like Christian podcasts and things. I've listened
to other interviews with her where she said that if you wear a face mask, you'll she said you'll
activate the virus. If you ride in an airplane, you'll get radiation poisoning. Why is everybody
obsessed with radiation? I don't know. If you get the flu vaccine, you'll die within 10 minutes.
And these are like easily disprovable things. But like this is this is the stuff my mom is
sending me. And I'm like, oh, my God. And then Simone Gold is like the worst. She started the
America's Frontline Doctors Association, AFLDS, something like that. And very famous, I want to
say in 2020, 2021, she this doctor's association, all wearing like white trench coats stood on like
the steps of the Capitol or something and had a press conference, where they said that, you know,
you don't need the vaccine. Hydroxychloroquine is the secret cure to the pandemic. And the
government is hiding this from you because they want you to use their vaccine. Conveniently,
AFLDS was selling hydroxychloroquine, which is an anti malaria, like an antiviral malaria drug
that and again, there was one research paper that said, Hey, we think this might help with COVID.
And then it got debunked. And it has been proven that it does absolutely nothing for COVID. So
my family Trump was big on that as well, right? Trump was big on that as well. He was. Oh, my
God. Soon as he took a take to the hospital, he was pumped with so much hydro on our way. He
wasn't. He got none. He had the he had the the other thing that like I think actually works. But
the AFLDS with Simone Gold, Simone Gold went to prison for storming the Capitol on January 6th,
speak to the end there. But AFLDS, all the other doctors that were a part of this group
were like chiropractors. Yeah. And and like, but they weren't like medical doctors and or people
who had expired medical licenses. Or there was one woman who was a part of AFLDS, who was a she
was a medical doctor, but she was also a preacher who taught that disease was not caused by viruses
and germs. It was caused by having sex with demons in your sleep. Okay, demon semen. I remember
that one. Right. Like the succubus demon stuff. So and super upsetting. I had heard that before
as a kid. But that's a woman who's an AFLDS. That is organization that my mother is sending me
videos from. Also, Ron DeSantis, the governor of Florida, puts a guy who was in AFLDS as the
surgeon general for the state of Florida to make all of the COVID decisions. So like, it's
everything's fucked. And so she's sending me these videos. My, you know, my friend's mom is sending
me Bill Gates, George Soros sermons. You know, my friend is like, my friend Kathy is like reposting
her friends like nonsense. They were very big in a photo fraud and stuff. And
my family is now stockpiling hydroxychloroquine and vitamin D, because they don't think that
they need the vaccine anymore. My father has one lung and is over 65 years old and is a cancer
survivor. And I'm in a different state. My family's doing a bunch of crazy ass shit. And I don't know
what to do about it. And as the, as you know, the pandemic progresses or whatever, I figure out
what QAnon is. And I can put a language to it and I can explain like what things are. And so I go to
Kathy and I'm like, I understand now. All right. So I see, I know what your friend is talking about.
It's all QAnon. And there's pages longs of text messages. And I literally say to her,
they think Hillary Clinton is eating babies, lol, thinking that that would like incite some kind of
reaction. And it's exactly like what you said when you were talking to like your Flat Earth family,
where there's just like, it's just like a dead pan, because she would send me like one line responses
and just like refuse to engage in a conversation at all. And when I told her that like, you know,
the, the sex trafficking conspiracy, like Hillary Clinton's not eating babies, her response was,
I can't believe you don't believe in sex trafficking. I've been to Cambodia. And I was like,
bitch, this is a text message. You can literally just reread it. Okay. Your reading comprehension
is obviously not your strong suit. Smooth brain. There's no wrinkles. And do you notice that when
you do talk to people about who are very conspiratorial, you'll, they'll be like, you know, trees grow
upside down. And you'd be like, why do you think trees grow upside down? And they'll tell you and
you'd be like, oh, you know, and you'll start to question it. And you'll get to the point where
you've kind of debunked it, essentially, like they've got nothing else to go to. And they've
got to now admit that maybe they don't have a good reason to believe that trees grow upside down,
whatever. And then they'll go, and then as soon as you're at that point, they'll go, yeah, but,
you know, the leaves reflect the sun, the sun is actually giving us radiation. And you go,
oh, okay, you move on to that one. And then you talk about that for a little bit. And it's like
this VIN diagram of like, like 100,000 things that as soon as you like question them enough on
one subject, like if someone's willing to have the conversation with you, they'll just pivot,
pivot, pivot, pivot, pivot, pivot, pivot, you can, you can never like get them to just
talk about one thing, follow the evidence where it leads. And, and, and what I think it is, I think
it's got to do with like, outrage culture, like people, people watch Fox News, and they're mad
about transgenderism and, or transgender, I said that as a, like a, like a joke, I was meant to say.
I say the gays, they're mad about the gays, you know, like, or the transgender.
Yeah. And they're mad about all that stuff and, and maybe racist or whatever. And they watch Fox
News and they're ignites their, their anger and they continue to, you know, I really feel like
things like Fox News are just like rotting people's brains. It's not just the right, by the way,
it's the left, the left has their own equivalencies. I don't really know, they might have watched
from media, but, but it's, there is, but it's not on the same level. Like you can't equate them.
It's not like the, the, the, the corruption exists everywhere. Misinformation exists everywhere,
but like we're not, you were comparing apples and oranges. But yeah, apples and clear bombs.
Yeah, yeah, literally, like not even the same. Yeah. But once like all of that started happening,
we were now engaged, like the weekend after Kathy visited my husband proposed,
we were now planning the wedding. The first thing I did was ask all my bridesmaids to be in the
wedding because that was like one of the things I was most excited about was to get to see people
from like all these different places who lived all over the country again to be my bridesmaids.
Kathy was a bridesmaid, Kathy was the unofficial native honor. And
over the next several months, we had all of these conversations where she, you know, she's just like,
were she using the vaccine? She said that the vaccine causes infertility. And I was like,
can you send me the article on that? And she like sent me an article that was just talking
about side effects. I had nothing to do with infertility. I was like, you're like, like,
you can't think good. And, and it was, I was just beating my head against a brick wall with her.
And then once I figured out what Cuenon was, I went to all of my other bridesmaids, so I had
three bridesmaids from my hometown. And I went to all three of them. And Kathy just like completely
shut me down, would not have a conversation. The other two, I was like, look, this is what Cuenon
is. I don't know why it's all the white evangelicals who are falling for this stuff, but you're going
to start to see it because our whole town is nothing but white evangelicals, you're going to
see it. I want to pre-warn you. And one of my bridesmaids had already like heard about some of
the stuff and was like, she believed the Wayfair shipping conspiracy. And I was just, her mother
in law had told her about Wayfair shipping children. And I was just like, no, they're not,
it's a conspiracy theory. And she listened to me. But then she was like, well, I saw this other
video that like Oprah Winfrey is a pedophile. And I watched that video and I was like, no, no,
she's not. That's a conspiracy theory. And she listened to me about those things, but I was the
only person in her life who was saying no. Her mother, her mother-in-law, her husband,
her sister-in-law, literally every single other person who was, who are very important to her
was like telling her these crazy things. And I'm the only person who's saying no,
and it wasn't enough. And then my other bridesmaid, I went to her with the same thing. And she was
just like, oh, I already know all about this. My aunt, who is a woman that I have known my entire
life, already told me about all of this. We can't get her off the computer. She has gone hardpilled,
QAnon. So her adult children like cannot get her to leave the house because she's doing her own
research all the time. She told me that when, that all of the hurricanes that hit Florida in 2020,
and it's Florida, so we always have hurricanes, all the, all the hurricanes that hit Florida in 2020
were manmade by Jewish space lasers with the intent of sinking the state of Florida because
DeSantis had given them too much freedom. And, you know, I thought the 5G radiation thing was the
craziest thing I'd ever heard in my life. Now we're talking about Jewish space lasers. I had
barely scratched the surface. I had talked to two people in my hometown and immediately found the
most feral antisemitism that I had ever heard in my entire life and it was terrifying. And my
bridesmaid didn't believe any of that. She was like, oh yeah, my aunt is crazy. But she didn't
understand this, like the, she didn't understand how significant it was and like how, how scary it was
that like that level of antisemitism and for it to be normalized like that. And so,
you know, and I went to my parents and I had the same conversation with them and they just like
wouldn't listen to me because I'm a child and like they're the adult and like they don't have to
listen to me. And the other thing was just kind of like, oh, that's just Senane with her like
weird engineer nerd shit, like she's talking about HN and like things that they couldn't
understand. And so I got nowhere. And then, you know, and we were planning the wedding
throughout all of this. Eventually I had to just uninvite Kathy. I was like, please do not show up.
And she, she was very gracious about accepting that. So like, I'll give her that, but we haven't
spoken since. And she was my best friend, like literally my best friend. And then, sorry.
And so, and things with my family got really bad because we ended up timing the wedding at the
very perfect point of the lowest, like Delta was at its lowest point. It was before Omicron had taken
off. At the time, we thought that the vaccines were like 98% effective. And, you know, so we felt
comfortable having the wedding. It was all outdoors. Everybody was going to be vaccinated anyway,
except for like the one table from my hometown. And I told my, and everybody was under 30,
everybody, like none of our older relatives were coming. My husband's parents were vaccinated.
And I told my parents that like, because my dad has one lung, I was like, I can't live with myself
if like, I know that I know that the chances are very low. I know that the chances are low.
But if dad gets sick and something happens to him, just so that I can throw a party,
when like, there are precautions that we could take and we didn't take, I will never be able
to live with myself. And so I basically had to give them an ultimatum. I was like, you,
we're not requiring everybody who attends to get the vaccine because like 98% are already vaccinated.
But we are requiring that you get vaccinated. And my mom told me to elope.
She was just like, well, then you should just, you should just elope, just cancel the wedding.
And I was like, no, no, no, no, no, no. And my dad spent three days in talking her into
getting the vaccine, which she's still bitches about. And I'm sorry for like trying to save your
life. And did she get, did she get, she got it? Did she get 5G? Did she get the 5G booster?
I mean, they are magnetic now. So I actually, I actually, when I went to get mine, I said like,
they said, oh, how are you going? I'm good. I'm just really excited to get better reception.
But what are you talking about? I'm like, oh, my 5G and my phone's been crap. I heard that when I
get this, I'll have like really good reception. She laughed.
God. Yeah. So I mean, if only, but honestly, if anybody does have space lasers, like use them,
you know, please, we could sink the state of Florida. I endorse it. But
no, we're going to get Robin Faith Walsh out of there. She's, she's in Miami. Is Miami in Florida?
Miami is in Florida. You know what? I saved Miami. I love Miami. But
so, you know, like, it was awful. And like, you know, instead of like worrying about like,
the budget or the color of the spoons or like how we fold the napkins and like all the normal
wedding stress, I'm now worried that like somebody is going to start talking about you
with space lasers to my in-laws who are normal people. And so like, it was just, it was awful.
And I basically just tried to like push through it to the end. It got to a point where we should
have eloped, but we didn't know that it was going to be that bad. It got to the point where it's
just like, don't burn down every bridge, just like push through to the end of the wedding,
you know, except for Kathy, you know, like, fuck that. That bridge was burnt. But everybody
else was just like, I just kept thinking that like, I must be wrong. Like, it cannot possibly be this
bad. I just must not understand. Don't overreact. And then like we got through the wedding, I had
like about two months to decompress. And then I was like, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm right about
everything. And fuck everyone. And basically what happened was it was, it was, it's so sad because
my sister-in-law, she had like a new baby, and they had just bought this new house. And we all
went to my husband's side of the family for Christmas that year. And it was like baby's
first Christmas. And it was lovely. It was lovely. I'm having a mental breakdown.
But like trying not to like, show it too much. But on the 23rd, I got a text message from my
friend from undergrad. And on the 24th, so Christmas Eve, I got a text message from a friend from
work. These people do not know each other. And I swear to God, it was almost verbatim,
the same text message. They both said, help. I'm home for Christmas. And my dad is saying
some crazy Q and on shit. What do I do? And because they knew that I knew everything about
Q and on at this point. And I was just like, you're fucked. I'm so sorry. I have been dealing
with this for two years. And I have not been successful. I don't know what to tell you. I
can tell you what's going on, but I can't tell you what to do about it. I can send you some resources.
And it basically like I knew that Q and on and these conspiracy theories and the anti-vax stuff was
I knew that it was not just of my family problem, not just of my hometown problem. I knew that this
was a bigger problem. But for me to face it, seeing it affect other people that I loved and
respected who didn't deserve to have to deal with it, that was the straw that broke the camels back.
I felt a physical snap. And at that moment, I deconstructed. And I was just like, I was like,
it is because they are Christians that they believe this stuff. And I'm a Christian. So what does
that say? What is wrong with evangelicalism that it is promoting these these ideas and this hatred
and this like just literal insanity? Like, you know, my friend's dad was like saying he was
vaccinated. And then he was saying that the booster shot was the mark of the beast, you know, just
like insane. I get so triggered by the mark of the beast because like, if you know anything about
the Bible, like the mark of the beast was Nero and it was like clearly like it's clearly like
it's not for people reading, they have to read revelations into this time. But it's not like
it's like Jesus was supposed to come back in his disciples lifetime. That's like verbatim written
there in three of the four gospels. Like, you know, like it's like it's a it's a fail prophecy,
my opinion. So it's like, and that's what I that's what I had to deconstruct. Like I said
earlier, I had to deconstruct American exceptionalism and biblical inerrancy. And a part of that was
the because the end times rhetoric was so huge for me growing up. My mom told me that like,
because Israel had been like reestablished in like 1948 or whatever, but it meant that like
her generation was like Jesus was going to come back in her lifetime. And I needed to be ready
for the rapture at any moment. So like, that was such a big part of like Christianity for me. And
it's a huge part of the absolutism of evangelicalism, hell. And then like, you know, the end time stuff
that like the slightest amount of biblical study, like studying the Bible from outside the propaganda
of evangelicalism, from like an actual academic standpoint, you immediately dismantle all of
that. And so like that was a huge thing for me. But you know, and so like I said earlier, like I
had to read books about theology. And I found I swear, I feel so stupid. And I feel tricked,
because, you know, the absolutism around evangelicalism is this idea of hell and this idea of penal
substitutionary atonement that Jesus died as a sacrifice for your sins. I was never taught
that there were other versions of Christianity, that there were other atonement theories,
that like, that the rapture was not the only story that you could possibly interpret out of the Bible.
I was taught that there was one interpretation. And so like, that was huge for me.
That's something that we should, we're running out of time, but there's a something that we
should bring up is this is not all evangelicals. And it's not, and it's especially not all
Christians, like a lot of Christians, most Christians are probably very normal.
But it's it's even one evangelical Christians, or just evangelicalism in general lends itself
to this kind of stuff, because you've got this, we're talking about this in DMs, when we're
preparing this interview, but it's the idea, it's like, when you have to try, when you have to
believe that evolution is a lie, and science can lie then and science can lie about the Big Bang
theory, what else is science lying about? And why are they lying about it? Why are they trying to
fool everyone? So you like, it lends itself, the thinking lends itself to conspiracy theories,
as well as like, the end of the world and the one world government and all that kind of stuff.
It's like, none of this is actually happening. Evolution is a fact, Big Bang theory is a fact,
well, as far as like, it's the best known theory, the best theory we have.
And like, but none of this like one world, like government or the end of the apocalypse or them
and becoming Messiah or any of that stuff is happening. So they need to like, find the evidence
for it. And they find evidence for it in these crazy ways where somehow Trump, a thrice married
dude who fucks porn stars is like the Christian, grabbing on by the pussy, like he's really got,
Trump has really got the Christian evangelicals right by the pussy. And it's like,
Oh yeah, that's, that's funny. Thank you. I've been working on that for a while.
It's, I don't like to say that word, but like, like, in a derogatory, I got, and, you know, but,
but it's like, it's, it brings home the point. It's like, it's, this is the champion. Like,
I've talked to a Christian friend in the US. It's like, you know, you don't have to vote,
right? Like, like, you know, Jesus said clearly, give back to Caesar. What is Caesar's? You see that
see Caesar's face that coin, give it back to him. Don't worry about the things of this world,
essentially. And you have this huge majority of people who are like, you must vote Republican,
they're killing babies and right, we're like, you know, and it's just like,
you're voting for, you're voting for an immoral person, like, like from it's, it's wild. Like,
yeah, the, well, and like, honestly, that, that like comes, that's kind of like where I landed
with things, because deconstructing through the perspective of the conspiracy theories and like
needing to understand that, I read a bunch of books by these cult psychologists. So like, Dr.
Robert J. Lifton is like the OG cult guy. Dr. Margaret Singer, Dr. Janja Lalich, Dr. Steve
Hassan is very popular right now, he has a bunch of books out, I think he has one called The Cult
of Trump, which I have not read yet, but I really need to. And so like, some of these people were,
you know, they're like psychologists, psychologists, psychiatrists, sociologists,
Janja Lalich and Steve Hassan were ex cult members who like broke out of the Mooneys,
and some other political cult, and then like went into school to like study this stuff. And so
what I found in the language I was able to apply to this was what Robert J. Lifton
white Christian nationalism is the problem. All right, like if we need to put a label to it,
it is white Christian nationalism, it is slightly distinct from white evangelicalism.
There's a huge overlap, but it is kind of its own ideology, which is why they don't adhere,
why there's so much hypocrisy to the evangelical scriptures to Jesus's teachings, because they're
not, they are evangelicals, but they're white Christian nationalists, and that overrides the
evangelical ideology. And what Robert, how some of these cults, a lot of experts don't like to
use word cult, because it's been socially stigmatized, and people like to just use it as a pejorative,
and it lost its meaning. But when I say cult, their definition is a charismatic leader, a
transcendent belief system, a system of control, and a system of influence. And they have a
totalistic ideology, which is an absolute worldview. And I like the word worldview,
because that was in the lexicon of the evangelicalism that I grew up in. It was a part of the
Christianese that I grew up with, the private Christian, the private Christian school that I
went to, I went to their website literally like a week ago, and they advertise instilling a
Christian worldview, or a biblical worldview. And so they're literally advertising, they will
indoctrinate your child into a totalistic ideology for you. And what cults do, destructive
cults, the traditional destructive cults that you think of when you think of like Jonestown,
or Heaven's Gate, or these mass suicide, mass murder sorts of sorts of situations,
is that they have a totalistic ideology, an absolute worldview, and it could be based on
anything. It could be based on politics, or religion, or flying saucers. Heaven's Gate was like an
alien thing. And they center the veneration of this absolute worldview on the charismatic leader.
But you can have a totalistic ideology without the charismatic leader. So, and I genuinely believe
that we do not have sufficient language to explain what is going on, and that this has not been
sufficiently studied, because psychology itself is a new field of study. And the study of cults is
like almost non-existent. And white Christian nationalism is a totalistic ideology. It is an
absolute worldview. You were told that you cannot study or look outside of this worldview. I was
told that like Mormons, and Islam, and all of these other like cults or religions that were
similar to Christianity, you can't deny that they are not similar in many ways. They were only
similar because they were emulating the absolute truth that we had. So, you should not study them.
You should only study the truth. And so, the absolute truth of this, absolute ends justify any
means. And so, when you have the absolute truth of hell, if you are literally justified to do
anything, if you are trying to save even one soul from eternal conscious torment,
the absolute ends justify any means. And the absolute ends of abortion, if you are murdering
babies, what are you not allowed to do to fight that, right? And so, you have a totalistic ideology
of white Christian nationalism. And Dr. Robert J. Lipton used the term personal closure. Dr.
Janja Lawlet uses the term bounded choice, which describes that like when you have a totalistic
ideology, you close off part of reality, it's not one of your bounded choices. So, you have to...
So, there's a quote from Sir Arthur K. Nendoyle, who's the guy that wrote Sherlock Holmes,
where he says that once you have eliminated all of the impossible options, whatever's left,
no matter how improbable, must be the truth. And when you have a totalistic ideology,
you know, you've got blinders on, you've removed a huge chunk of reality as impossible. And so,
you know, why did Trump pull out of the NATO, you know, UN international whatever treaties,
why did Trump move the Israeli whatever to Jerusalem? Well, obviously, that's a part of the
end times rhetoric. Or like why did Trump lose the 2020 election? The idea that the majority
of Americans don't want to live in a homophobic theocracy, that's not an option. That's an
impossibility. And so, it must be because white evangelicals are not strong enough,
or because there was some sort of satanic tampering. And so, conspiracy theories become
completely inevitable. They are foundational to the mentality of a totalistic ideology,
because they are just a way of explaining phenomenon and events through the perspective
of a totalistic ideology. And so, you like, of course, you're going to have these conspiracy
theories. When you have when you have an absolute worldview, you're not, you're not using critical
thinking. It shuts down critical thinking, and it shuts down empathy, because it is the same
psychology as cults. Robert J. Lipton talks about his eight characteristics of thought reform. And
these are basically like how you manipulate somebody into adopting the totalistic ideology.
And when you read, when you read his book, Thought Reform and the Psychology of Totalism,
you know, he like breaks down each of these. And I swear to God, I was like, I feel like I'm just
reading an autobiography, because it like Christian ease is loading the language. That's one of the
eight characteristics of thought reform. You know, it's a part of establishing an in group and an
out group with language and mystic manipulation. So like speaking in tongues, or like laying of
hands and healing. And, you know, if it's somebody who has a headache, and then you like, you know,
you cure them, like you've just proven this, you know, that's mystic manipulation.
And so, and there's eight characteristics, I can't rattle them all off. But
we had, we had someone sorry to interrupt, but we had someone cut off their neck brace at prayer
meeting for a good friend of mine, cut off their neck and neck brace and head because they broke
their neck. And then someone like dug their knuckles into the broken bone to prove that it was healed
and to prove that it wasn't hurting. And he was healed. He was fine for three days until he got
rushed back to the emergency, because his neck got in an even worse break. Oh, my God. Oh, we're
all wondering, we're all like, what, you must, I was thinking to myself, like, did he have like a
sin in his life? Did he think like lustful folks that morning? And then like, he's like, yeah.
But, and then, and then that's where you get into like so many of these like very dangerous,
dangerous things, because now you've got the medical misinformation, and you're prioritizing
this absolute worldview over actual information, medical information. And it's the QAnon was so
popular, because it fit with the preconceived biases of white Christian nationalism, because
it fed into the end times evangelical rhetoric, because it said, you know, and the heart of
white Christian nationalism, the conspiracy theory behind white Christian nationalism,
it's not just it's not about conspiracy theories and cults. It's about totalistic ideologies
and moral panics. It's something bigger than a conspiracy theory. And the moral panic behind
white Christian nationalism is family values. You know, it's the and that's where you get
purity culture. And that's where you get this like rabid homophobia and transphobia. Because,
you know, they're saying that like, oh, we need, we need men to be men. It's a masculinity crisis.
We need, you know, women to be in the kitchen and so be like raising children. And that's
if we have strong families, we'll have a strong country as a distraction from actual systemic
issues. You know, like, no, we don't like, I mean, sure, like some of that might help, but like,
we don't need like men to be men and to like strengthen patriarchy, we need to like, figure
out gerrymandering and the prison system and like racial inequality and like, you know, all of these
like actual systemic issues, it's all just a distraction. And it's almost like a giant
thought terminating mantra or thought stopping cliche. You know, when I was talking to Kathy
about all these conspiracy theories and stuff, she like wouldn't respond. And then she was just in
the conversation with something like, well, I just believe in freedom. And I was like, that literally
doesn't mean anything. It's just a thought stopping cliche. It's something that on the surface sounds
like it makes sense. And it allows you to stop having to think about this thing that is giving
you cognitive dissonance. We had friends who moved to the States, and they became like,
they're like, Obama started the race war, and I carry a gun with me now in my
purse and like all this stuff. And we're like, Oh my God. And, and every time I would question them
about their insane belief systems, they would say, we should understand, you have to be an American
understand, you don't you don't fully understand. And like, and I was like, I mentioned the system,
I was like, why do they always say that? They always just like, every time you get them on a
point, they say, you should understand you're not an America. And then this is, well, it's just
they go to, it's what they say every time. You're like, this is, I feel like saying too long, you
can't understand, you're not, you're not, you're in America. So because you're too close to the
problem to see it. So yeah, yeah, yeah, no. Yeah. And it's, it's all, and, and there's a bunch of
different, like, there's so many different ways that you can look at this and so many different
in great people who are working on this from different angles, like the study of narcissism
like what we were talking about earlier, like how, how like, there's just so egotistical,
seemingly, and like, does the church create narcissists or is it attracting narcissists? And
you know, the, for, I just totally lost my train of thought, other ways of like looking at white
Christian nationalism, you know, but, but basically like the way that I am kind of like looking at
it is through like the lens of cult psychology and conspiracy theories and things. And, well, and
I was just gonna say, like, it's another thing that's like really important to like mention is
like when you, when you look into this stuff, education provides empathy, you know, like
understanding the other person's perspective provides empathy. And like my family, they're
batshit, you know, like they, they believe some crazy things, like they believe some crazy conspiracy
theories and things. And like they also believe some like extremely hateful, harmful things,
like racist, like they are racist. But people who believe conspiracy theories and people who
join cults, they do it because they, for the same reason, cults and conspiracy theories,
people join them for the same reason, because it fills social and psychological needs. Because,
you know, I heard one person explain it through the ABCs of psychology, autonomy, belonging and
competency. So you like, you feel like you are in control and you have power over your life to
make decisions. You are in the in group. So you belong. And then you are competent because you
have like information and you know what you're talking about, you have secret great information.
And so like people are looking for that in or out of conspiracy theories, like that is kind of what
religion serves. It fills social and psychological needs. And it's just when you introduce the
unethical, manipulative aspects of like thought reform and coercive manipulation and misinformation
and conspiracy theories and stuff where it becomes unhealthy. And people who join these groups or
believe these conspiracy theories are often what you might call good people. They, they're not flawed.
They're not stupid. They're not like, there's not some, they're not all like drug addicts or anything.
And all of the cult experts, like they talk about this, they're, they're doing it because they're
good people because they're looking for a solution to a problem, either personal problems with
relationships or like substance abuse or existential problems because they're worried about climate
change or politics or, you know, just how to be a good person. And so somebody is offering them a
solution and they are using unethical thought reform manipulation and they fall for it. And,
you know, so us saying, oh, there's something wrong with them. They're stupid. They're flawed
is victim blaming. And it is a self-defense mechanism because we want to think that couldn't
happen to me. I'm smarter. I have better critical thinking. I have like whatever. So like, I would
never fall for QAnon. I would never join the Mooneys. But every person, every single person
is susceptible to these, you know, psychological tactics at different points in their lives.
You know, if you're going through a period of change, or if it's just like a message that
resonates with your preconceived biases and things. So it doesn't excuse what they do. It
doesn't excuse the racism and the bigotry or storming the Capitol on January 6 or the Manson
family murdering whoever they murdered, but it explains it a little bit better. And, you know,
it's just like, there's, and the problem is that there's no easy solution. There's no quick
fix. No. And that's part of why it continues, I think. I'm going to be first in line for your
book. Well, one of, there might be some other people because you live in America, but I want
to sign a copy when your book finally comes out. You've got on your website, you haven't got your
book out. When is it due? When is it like planned to be released? I've never written a book before,
so I have no idea what I'm doing. I don't have like a date or really anything, unfortunately,
but I'm working through kind of like the second half of it now. So, well, you have this whole
section for resources for people, as well as podcast recommendations or for interviews.
You've got all your stuff on here, which is really, really cool. So go check out this
link in the description. It's phenomenal. We are, and we did say we were going to go over
two hours and we're at two hours and nine minutes. So I just want to be respectful of your time,
but I just want to quickly, you know, shout out, I read out Nossi Emporments chapter four,
but thank you, MythVision, for being a member for seven months. David is my messiah. His voice
comforts my bed. It's so funny. I reached out, this is an inside joke we reached out the other day,
and he said, I said, oh, can you get me, can you help me with this? And he said, yeah, I'll do it
tomorrow morning. And I said, and he said, I'm in bed. And I said, oh, you're in bed. And I went,
I sent him a voice message. And I was like, because I know Ryan was,
will be listening. I'm like, hey, guys, hey, guys, enjoy your bed.
Sounds really good. And then he laughed, he laughed. And then he said something back to one.
Can we subscribe for these night time?
Only fans, me and Derek, she's done only fans together. We just say, yeah, have a good night there.
All right. Well, thank you so much, Sonane, for coming on. It's been a real pleasure. Oh,
wow. $10 from Nitty for Super Chat. Thank you. Colts, thank Sonan, great conversation.
You can see, like your links to other podcasts you've been on, the Stacey's Mum podcast,
Sydney Davis Juniors podcast, Growing Up Fundy, both great interviews. I watched them
in preparation for this. And of course, you've got some other links as well on there. But
thank you so much for coming on. It's been a real pleasure talking to you. I'm sure that
there's more stuff we could have talked about. I've got a whole list of stuff.
And so we might have to do something again in the future, but it's been great. And here's the
website, everyone. So anything you want to say before we sign off? No, just thank you so much
for having me on. It's so fun, fun, getting to talk to you and connect like this. And yeah,
I struggled for a long time, not knowing that there were resources available. So the reading
recommendation on my website is something that I am very, I don't know, passionate about. I have
a calling from the Lord to get as many people as possible to see that the reading recommendation.
So yeah, thank you. Cool. Well, see you guys. It's been a real pleasure. And I'll see you guys
very shortly. We have some awesome guests coming up. Dr. Jennifer Bird, Derek, Neil, we've got a
lot of cool guests coming up. Just stay tuned, subscribe, like everything like that. And thank
you everyone for coming out. It's been really nice to hang out with everyone. That's what you
got to you guys later. Bye.
