I saw his whole thing down there and I was like, I'm too gay for this and I literally
traumatized that man.
Do you actually say that?
Yes.
Word for word.
Him and I are bros now, so.
You know, when I have children, I would still love them if they were straight.
Like, if they were straight, I'd still, like, I would finally my heart to accept them.
Think of that.
I would love you either way.
As a worship leader, I was, I did so many Bible studies that I led.
I was like, I was deep into a lot of it and I was like, if I'm going to do this, I'm
going to go all in.
And I had no recollection, no memory, no anything of this, but until people kept putting these
ideas in my head that I, since I was gay or having these gay struggles that I was hurt
or abused or like molested as a child or maybe I just didn't remember it.
Wait, so I've seen gay porn.
Does that mean that I'm in the first stage of homosexuality?
Yeah.
If you've got toys that plug into the wall, that's stage six.
Exactly.
It's, it's so blatantly obvious that you've just been deceived by the homosexual burial
ground in your parents' backyard because.
Was it ready?
I told you, I told you I watched a whole TikTok.
Welcome everyone to the Deep Drinks podcast today.
We have Hailey Brooke, the awesome musician and TikTok sensation.
Hailey is a member of the LGBT community.
She is a lesbian and went through many years of, of a struggle that we'll hear about in
this with her religious faith and her family.
So welcome Hailey to the Deep Drinks podcast.
Well, thank you for having me.
I'm super excited and y'all bear with me because this is my first podcast and I'm a
little nervous, but we're going to bear, just bear with me.
That's all I'm saying.
Yeah.
We were talking just for the interview side of that.
We're both for some reason nervous.
I have no idea why, but oh, well, we can be nervous together.
I've really never told my story before.
So that's something new for me too.
Oh, that's, well, I'm so honored that you are telling it here for the first time in
full, I guess.
We're drinking a drink that you suggested, which is this one here, isn't it?
Botanicals.
Cucumber mit vodka.
Yes.
So, I mean, you're just drinking a little bit of water in mine.
It's a little, it's a little strong.
So it's a slow sipper.
I told Amy, my wife that I'm going to, we're going to a family gathering tonight.
And I said, look, I'm going to be drunk.
And she's like, okay, so she's, she's driving.
So I'll add a bit of water in mine as well.
Yeah.
So, so first of all, your music, I want to give a shout out to your music and your Tik
Tok.
Your music is, I've been listening to on Spotify and your song, listening to before this, I'm
a dear mom and dad.
I just lost it.
Yeah.
That song, like.
That's my most recent though, the ones were like, obviously, like I was a little bit younger
and I have a lot that I haven't, you know, recorded yet.
So I'm like still looking for like a producer up here because I moved and everything, but
your mom and dad was, that's, that's the one that's, it's close to, you know, home
and everything.
Yeah.
And it's, it's, it says a lot that you can bear your like soul, not that I actually believe
in souls, but that you can bear yourself so, so much on the, on the tape like that.
That's, yeah.
It's funny because, well, not funny.
This is my sense of humor.
Guys, it just heads up.
I tend to, you know, trauma.
It's like a thing.
So I tend to laugh about it, but it's my way of coping.
But also I just like to make, you know, the bad situations as good as I can.
But I would just say that like anytime I do perform that song anywhere and I'm selective
about where I do it because I'm in a town that's, you know, interesting, I guess we'll
get into that.
But like, I cry every time, sometimes if I'm in like the right atmosphere, I'd like,
or I tear up.
I just like, you know, it's like one of those things that I don't even mean to, like it's
not even necessarily like it's that, you know, I've wrote it a bit ago, but like it's still,
you know, I don't know.
It's wild.
Well, links are in the description for that song.
Make sure you check it out because it is, make sure you got some tissues though.
So especially after you hear the context of this story.
So I'd like to jump into just talking about your story.
Like if you could, well, everyone's seen your TikTok at this stage that they are the family
video.
But I guess I want to ask, like, when did you first, well, hang on, the first question
I need to ask is, are you sure that you're gay?
It's a valid question.
So yes.
So have you, what if like you met a guy who like had bench pressed a lot and he had
like tattoo, he had like a piercing on his dick.
Yeah.
So I want to, you know, as a lesbian, I will say a lot of people like, this is just, it's
a weird way to put it, but like fetishize, is that a word fetish?
It's like a fetish for a lot of people and it gets strange sometimes.
And I've had very awkward, like strange encounters.
Sometimes you'll tell people like guys, like, no, like, I'm, you know, I'm gay.
And they'll be like, all right, but okay, like, they're like ready to like the next
step.
And I'm like, no, do you not like get what I'm saying, but like, it's just super funny
how that works.
But yes, I'm definitely 100% gay.
I feel like a lot of people in our community, they, and it varies like, you know, it's there's
a spectrum.
And a lot of people, including myself, I thought I thought I was bi at first and I was kind
of like hoping I was, which there's, like being bi has a whole hard thing in itself
because there's so many people that are biphobic and it's just a mess.
Even people in our community, they go through a lot, but I was hoping I was solely because
I was hoping that if I did, it's a very strange like dynamic because I was hoping that I would
like maybe end up with a man, you know, or something like that.
So I've given it chance, I've given guys chances more so like on dates and things like that.
I've even, you know, almost gone there, you know, sexual, physically.
And I ran out of the room, I said, I literally was like, I saw his whole thing down there
and I was like, I'm too gay for, I was like, I'm gay for, I'm too gay for this.
And I literally traumatized that man.
You actually say that.
Yes.
Word for word.
Him and I are bros now.
So shout out to you, bro, but it was a little awkward because we're all just like a group
trip.
We're supposed to go to the beach the next day.
And I was like, but yeah, he was like, and this is the funny thing.
He asked me, he was like, did I turn you?
I've had a lot of guys that I did go on the dates with.
They were like, did I turn you?
Even my first kiss, my first kiss was my, he's another good friend and I set him up with
my best friend after that and now they're getting married.
So it's very funny dynamic, but he was my first kiss and I saved that until I was 19
years old.
Cause I was like, I'm going to save it to my wedding day because I was like, I was
very, very big into my like, there's a difference between like religion and spiritual for me.
So I was very much into religion and I was like, I'm just, I want to marry my first
kiss to the guy and marry, you know, whatever.
But, um, yeah, it was very interesting, but literally I was so weird about it.
I was like, kept like dodging his face almost.
And I was like, oh God, no, no.
And then I was like, it just felt so wrong and so weird.
And I didn't even really know why.
And he, he literally said, Haley, and he's super sweet.
He didn't mean it in like, like any way.
He was like, are you, are you gay?
And I was like, I just broke down in tears, literally right there.
And I was not planning on it.
Like it was just wild.
And I was like, so he was one of the first people I like told straight up directly.
Like, yes.
So yeah, right into it.
But there's that, that, that was funny.
Cause that started out as a joke.
Cause you're saying, are you sure you're gay?
Cause obviously that's the stereotype.
I was going to then ask, like, are you sure you're not into me?
That was the next joke I was going to go with.
Don't tell your wife, don't tell your wife.
Yeah, I was going to say, cause I'm, I'm married and I'm happily married and look
like, cheers to that.
Oh, the best other thing you'll be like, but I could be like an exception, right?
I'm like, yeah, yeah, yeah, bro.
Yeah, that's so funny.
But you actually went a lot, a lot deeper with that question,
which is, which is a really, I really like, I'd, yeah, that's interesting.
So I have Tennessee to do that.
So sorry.
So do I.
And I, um, yeah, that's why I, just from the way you're responding to emails
and I watched your entire TikTok, I was like, I think we think the same
sometimes and we have a tendency to humorize, humorous trauma or like horrible things.
You know, um, so when did you like to, did you grow up knowing that you were
gay or bi at all?
Literally this is crazy.
I, I'm from a small town.
Like I don't live there anymore, but I'm from a small town called Moultrie, Georgia.
The one you see in the, um, clip in the TikTok was like Thomasville,
which is like 20 minutes from there.
And that's where their church, that's where they still go.
I don't even really call it a church.
It's more so just like a cult, but, um, yeah, but basically I lived in Moultrie
and I genuinely did not even really know what gay was.
I can literally tell you, I know two people that were gay.
And one was like my mom's hairdresser a while back and she would always talk
like derogates, like just down on them, down on him.
And, um, he was, it was just very, just a strange, like, I just remember
thinking, Oh my gosh, that's the worst of the worst.
Like that's in my mind, what I was thinking.
And then also I knew this one woman who will come up eventually in this story.
But, um, it's just kind of wild.
How our paths like ended up crossing.
But the one, this one woman I knew, I know there's more in that town,
but like those are the only people that were like out that people knew
of that was a lesbian and she like left her, she had kids and things like that.
And so it was interesting.
But I, what was the initial question again?
Oh, so I, first of all, I like that you're just flowing with this,
um, because it's interesting, but when did you first kind of discover
that you were gay when you were growing up?
Did you, it's so strange.
Yeah.
Um, when I first found out or figured it out is so weird because
I just thought, I guess the term is asexual or something.
Like I honestly lose track.
There's so many I'm trying to like educate myself.
Cause again, I grew up not knowing, but I thought I was like,
I just didn't think I had any attraction to anyone.
Like I had boyfriends.
I joked about it in one of my recent ones.
Like I had boyfriends in fifth grade, but it was more so like I won class clown.
Like I was just like comedy.
Like I just always was joking.
And also I just like at the time I was like super into like just having fun
and upbeat and you know, when you're young, you just do things
for attention and just, I don't know.
It was just like one of those things.
And so I was just, but if they ever tried to kiss me, I was like, no,
like all my friends were like kissing their little boy friends.
I was like, I always drew a line of that.
It was just like for a companion almost at the time.
But yeah, exactly.
Good boy.
Just stay over there.
I remember in fifth grade, this one boy, he wanted to keep me behind
the tree and I was like, nope.
I was like, no, no, no.
But it's I just wasn't a sexual like as sexual as everyone else around me was
because I feel like a lot of their parents were more open to talk about things,
which we did have the sex talk, but it was more and I was like in fifth grade,
I think, but it was more like religious based and it was not.
Yeah, I just was very unaware of things, which it's, you know,
and so I didn't know I didn't know anything.
And what was that?
Can I can I ask when you in part part of the country that teaches
abstinence on the sex education?
Yeah, I want to say yes.
So like, yeah, like we basically that's what we talked about.
That's the only thing I remember, but it's just it's it really just sucks
because well, I'll get into that other part later.
But I just wish we did have more education about, you know, LGBTQ,
like just things in general, mainly for safety, because I know a lot of my friends,
they didn't learn about anything about that kind of thing.
When I when I said that said that people come at me online all the time,
they're like, I don't I do not want my kid to learn about that.
I'm like, well, I don't like knowing that I'm gay.
I don't want to learn about them.
Like, truthfully, like I don't want to be learning about straight.
But like, I know it's important because people, I especially like growing up,
I do know a couple of gay men, one of my best friends.
He was even telling me he was like, I just did.
I snuck around with like men like guys, like because I didn't know any better.
And like, there's so many unsafe, like it's just like a safety thing.
But the thing is a lot of people, since it's like that, they're like,
since it's a sin, they don't they're like, well, I don't care.
Like, you know, they just write it off.
So it doesn't matter.
But getting back on the point of things, that's just a little sidetrack note.
I just find all of these things that I will say that I do find it all important.
That's why I bring it up.
But so fifth grade, sixth grades, I I I kind of just isolated myself.
Did my own thing.
I was very interesting kid, like technology club, all these kind of things.
Just did my own little thing.
Never was interested in anyone.
And then I remember when it hit like ninth grade or tenth grade or eighth grade.
I think it was like eighth or ninth grade at junior high.
We had like a separate high school.
There was this one girl and she cut her hair short and that she was like very
like popular girl, like very beautiful, beautiful.
And she's one of my best friends now.
Shout out to you, Rachel.
But at the time, I just remember thinking, wow, like, why am I drawn to her?
But like, you never put the pieces together almost because I was never even
like that with guys.
Like, if anything, they just annoyed me.
And I was always like, like, I've come a long way with that, too,
because there's an unhealthy thing with that.
But I was always like, boys are dumb, like they're all, you know.
But to be fair, no, I think I think you're right.
Like it's so it's so I don't know how chicks are into dudes.
I've grown in appreciation for the good ones, you know.
Yeah, there are some good ones.
Yes. But like even even like sexually, like how like, have you seen boobs?
Like they're just way better.
Like the female figure.
Exactly. That's what I'm saying.
I'm like, and the people that come at me on TikTok, the guys that are, they're
like, I'm like, I look at their profile picture, they'll say something.
And I'm like, dude, you're coming at me right now.
Like, come on, bro.
Like, I won't I don't ever, you know, shame someone's like anything like that.
But then they come right at me and I'm like, I just can't can't hold it back.
But anyways, so basically, I remember her cutting her hair.
And when she did that, it just I remember it standing out.
She had some like something happen.
It was like, you know, just high school drama or something.
And she I remember her losing like a good bit of friends or something.
And I really didn't have any intentions because I didn't know
if I even liked her or anything like that.
But I just remember being drawn to her.
And I remember when she lost a lot of her friends because of some drama.
I kind of just like I was that type of person.
I didn't have a click.
I just jumped around to people and had a bunch of different groups of friends.
And so I really befriended her.
And funny enough, her mom is the one person I talked about earlier,
who is the one lesbian that I knew of.
And my mom was OK with that for the the beginning of like our friendship
because she didn't know that I had any, you know, she didn't have any idea
that I was even remotely into girls, which I didn't either.
But, you know, towards the end of things, she my mom kind of thinks
that like her demons could get on me.
It was just a whole mess.
And I'd really didn't get like, you know, the old demon transfer.
Or it's like she shoving it down your throat.
And I'm like, she never talked about her.
Like if anything, all my heterosexual friends,
like their parents are more like she like I don't think she had a partner.
If she did, she didn't I didn't never see her.
So like it was one of those things like she was super sweet and stuff.
It's always weird, too, because it's like a lot of a lot of the time
people think that you can be turned gay, like to get like like you can be talked
into it and say, oh, just, you know, or they're like it shoved down our throats.
And I'm like, who's the only person shoving something down your throat right now?
And they'll say that just if they have to watch someone holding hands
or let's say a Disney like characters, they're like if there's a same sex
like parent couple, like they're like, we don't want our kids.
And I'm like, just because they see that, like doesn't mean like if anything,
y'all are only showing them.
I literally got on.
I get in these like stupid little I shouldn't even talk to respond to them.
But it's so frustrating to me because I'm finally having my voice
and I can't stand on people try to like better ignorant, try to shut it off.
But like, I don't know.
It's just interesting how people they're just so frustrating.
And they think that you can just catch the gay or whatever.
That's what I call it.
I call it like they act like it's like a disease.
And I'm like, like even some friends, I've had to cut off some friends
because like even in like changing in like locker rooms and things like that,
I'm always like, if trust me, you can if you ever seen like gay
tech talk is just so funny to me because everybody's so relatable
and like to each other because you don't realize that other people
have these same experiences.
But they're like, there was one it was like someone was like,
the gays are like looking down like everybody else is like looking up.
But we're like, we don't want anyone to think we're even looking, you know,
like we're trying to be respectful, but it's just not it's not like that.
So but one analogy.
Yeah, well, I was just going to say one analogy I had when
when the same sex marriage stuff was coming around.
It was like a poster in a in Australia, the same sex marriage stuff.
And we had it a few years after you guys.
There's a poster about like love is love or something in the airport
from like Virgin Australia or Jetstar or something.
One of the companies I don't know which one it was.
And some a Christian lady took a photo of it and she's like, really?
Do we have to ever go?
This is putting down and I was like, and I was like, this is interesting.
And I was like, I was like, you feel like and people were saying
they're being persecuted, Christians were saying they're being persecuted.
I'm like, you think being persecuted is society taking away the big stick
you've been whacking everyone with the last hundred and fifty years.
Like this is not persecution.
This is equal rights. This isn't like special rights.
This is equality and you're upset at equality.
Like we're just like wanting the bare minimum.
Like we're not even like it's not like we're taking someone's rights away from
they act like they're losing them by us gaining them.
And I'm like, no, like what it's just so strange.
And like I literally I kind of made some some notes that like major points
that I wanted to like kind of hit and it was it's like the big thing
that people tell me a lot is they'll be like like the ones that are annoying.
Though are the trolls is what I call them.
But they basically would just be like, you have the victim mentality, blah, blah, blah.
And I'm like, or they'll think like I'm wanting pity.
I'm like, one, I've never had support in my entire life.
So like in this, like, you know, setting,
like when it comes to growing up.
Yes, look, I do now.
But like, you know, growing up, you know, a lot of people don't.
So it's one of those things like I want to be able to like talk about it and stuff like that.
But it's just interesting, the people that they're like,
there's a difference between a victim mentality.
They're just the people that say that are usually the like abusers.
A lot of times if they're, you know, not careful about it,
they're just saying it in like a derogatory way.
And I'm like, no, there's a difference between that
and actually being a victim of something.
And I don't want to have that victim mindset.
But like at the same time, I want to draw awareness to something.
And that is always a very big trigger thing for me when people say that.
Because I'm like, I've been my parents.
Like there's so many narcissists in my life that I'm like, I've never felt like
my feelings were valid or things like that.
So for me to even like, because I always feel like I'm a burden on someone.
So I'm always like, for me to actually say something like that,
but people on the internet don't take the time to know it.
But like it's it's a big deal, you know, like it's just interesting
that people invalidate stuff.
But going back to the Rachel thing, the girl she we got, we became closer.
And the more I spent like time with her, it was just like it was weird.
And I finally was starting to feel something inside.
You know, the little butterflies and things that you just don't realize.
And looking back, after I started recognizing that, I saw so many different
things growing up, like little crush type things that I didn't recognize.
It was that same exact feeling.
Like one time it was like a little crush on like a dance instructor or thing.
Like not that there was anything like that.
But like just little things that I never picked up on.
It was the same exact actual feeling, but not just like a companion feeling.
Like, you know what I'm saying?
Yeah, and I wrote it in my journal.
And when I did that, I like my parents ended up seeing it and reading it.
And that's kind of where I didn't know that part for a while.
That seems like a bit of a breach of trust.
How old were you at that stage?
I think that this was like, it was either eighth or ninth grade
because I just remember that time period is that it was like,
I think it was probably ninth grade at that point, maybe whatever age that is.
But yeah, so I didn't know that for a while.
But I think they were just kind of holding it until, you know,
just to see what happened with it a little bit
because they were thinking maybe it's like a phase or I don't know.
I don't know, to be honest.
But either way, they read that.
Did you write in what are you like?
Oh, yeah, I have that journal somewhere.
I've been I'm meaning to find it.
But I remember directly putting like word for word, this part at least.
I was like, I even shown Rachel.
I was like, I really have a crush on this girl named Rachel.
And I was like, it was just like little kid, like young,
like I had a younger mindset even than like people that were in eighth grade
because I'd never been through that.
So it was just like little kid, like, honestly, even in eighth grade,
like crushes and stuff like that.
But it's just something small.
I have a funny story where a friend of mine who she's she's like,
you know, we'll call us are probably bisexual now.
She's like married or or something.
But she used to she wrote love letters to this girl
that she was like kind of screwing in in high school and screwing.
What kind of word was that?
I'd never use that word.
Anyway, she was, you know, and yeah.
And she anyway, they would always sign it.
And they would sign it.
We should sign it with a T of her partner and and her family found it
and they worked it out and they're like, what is this?
And she's like, T stands for Troy.
It's my boyfriend Troy.
Even though it was that she at least and then she made up this whole story.
Yeah, she made up this whole story about Troy and her family.
She's ready to write it forwards and backwards.
I love Troy.
Troy is such like a masculine name, too.
It's like Troy, like it's so good, like such a funny story.
Well, so then from there,
I don't remember exactly the part of this timeline,
but I do know that I wanted to like obviously hang out with her more.
I never told her until like way later after I like was over the crush
that I had that.
But like, I just remember at one point,
it took a long time for me to even a minute.
I said I was by until probably like, I remember what year of college,
probably like sophomore year.
And I didn't tell anyone, but like, I just remember I finally told
like Rachel something and she I don't even think my parents know this.
So surprised if they see this.
But I did sneak with her to
we snuck to like this and her mom.
She's her mom's the one that took us, but she I mean, it doesn't matter at this point.
But we snuck to Tallahassee, Florida, which it was like a small pride.
It's not like one of the big ones like Atlanta, Georgia and things like that.
But we snuck to one of those.
And yes, it's tiny, but like I felt so like I was a little bit older,
I think, than this was past high school, maybe.
I don't even know.
I just remember this being a distinct memory with her is that
I just remember feeling like, wow, like this is so freeing.
And this is what love feels like.
It's not just God is love.
And this is what you have to do, blah, blah, blah, you know, boom, boom, boom.
And this is what it is.
And this is what it has to look like.
And I was a worship leader.
I was I did so many Bible studies that I led.
I was like, I was deep into a lot of it.
And I was like, if I'm going to do this, I'm going to go all in.
And people would always tell me and like go out of their way to tell me,
which they do this to everyone, honestly, if they're in the church and stuff.
But like, they'd always be like, you have such a calling, blah, blah, blah.
And, you know, it makes you feel like you have something like you have a community there.
But it's not the community that like feels like it just feels, I can't explain it.
Just like judgmental and things that I don't enjoy and I don't like.
I've even seen people on TikTok and it breaks my heart.
I just think this one person in particular and they call it SSA, same sex attraction.
And he's like, I struggle with SSA and the church is making him think that.
And so many things like that.
It's just so sad to me because I know exactly how that guy is feeling.
And he's thinking he has that community feeling and he's on this like,
I call it a Jesus High and you're running with it because I went on mission trips.
I went to Uganda, I went to Madagascar.
I went, I did all things in my community and knocked on doors and prayed for people
and all sorts of stuff.
And it just never felt real.
And when I've started realizing that I was like into girls at any extent,
every time I was singing on this big stage, I started like feeling guilty almost.
I was just like, I'm like, I can't do this.
Like I, I, I, but if anyone knows me, that's the one thing they'll say.
Like I have plenty of flaws, but I am not fake.
And that's kind of my biggest thing is that it would eat away at me.
You seem, you seem quite sincere.
You wear your heart in your sleeve and down to earth, which is really cool.
It's, it's, and it's so interesting to talk to someone who's actually like that
because I don't, I don't feel like I have to filter through their like
persona to try and get to like what truth is.
So I really respect that.
That's, that's awesome.
I remember actually the guy had on the column, the guy had in the first podcast.
He said, I'll always have seen when he was a, you know, in the closet, he's like,
I'll always have same sex attraction.
He's like, but I'll, but I'm not gay.
And you're like, OK.
Yeah, I'll be like, oh, as long as I like with, like, with, I don't know the word,
but like as long as I don't have to, you know, give into temptation, it'll be fine.
Or I thought of, I'm telling you, I've heard it all, but I was thinking maybe
I'll be like Paul in the Bible to where I was thinking like, you know, he had the
option God, this, I don't even know if this is completely accurate, but this is
what they always told me.
They were like, basically he could, he could have gotten married, you know,
married and all that kind of thing and done his whole thing.
God would have blessed him, but he chose to stay single.
Yeah, he got the, you know, whatever.
So I in my mind was like, man, I am yearning for a relationship.
Like I am so relational.
Like I love like being with people like it's everybody has like that desire.
I feel like at some point, maybe some people don't, but like a lot of people do.
And I, it just wasn't me.
And I was like, I don't want to be single my whole life.
Like I don't ever, I never felt God like, I mean, I felt like I felt something,
but it wasn't, I don't even know.
I still don't know what I believe with all that.
But like I, I couldn't tell if it was because obviously.
Yeah.
But this is, it's quite obvious to me that it's, it's so blatantly obvious that
you've just been deceived by the homosexual burial ground in your parents' backyard
because I told you, I told you, I was like, yes.
Yeah, gosh, that was like a passing one.
Yeah.
She was, she was reaching with that one.
She, she's thought all sorts of things.
Um, I mean, not to like, um, like, you know, um, rag on your parents at all,
because I don't, and I'm not, I know that it doesn't very hopeful things to you
and stuff, but these crazy ideas, like I, they're victims in themselves.
Like in regards to like, that is a very good point.
I, so I don't really talk about this a lot actually, because a lot of people.
Don't fully get, like there's a lot of gay people that don't get this either
because they're just like, you know, fuck that or whatever.
And just, just like, I just don't like, you know, just, I don't know.
I just like to try to see the positives and things I really do.
And I have plenty of negatives to say about this whole situation in them and
everything, like I've, even with me, how I've handled some things with it.
Like I was just immature and things, but like I was having to kind of be my
own parent, but at the end of the day, like, like you were saying some, this is
what people really try to grasp, need to try to grasp is that they are so their
blinders are on and they think that I am going to hell.
And my mom, I know cares about me and I know she like, and it kind of breaks
my heart, but like, I know she cares about me and it's hard to admit that
because it's easier, it's easier for me to ride it off and be like, no, like, you
know, fuck that.
They don't care about me.
Like for some reason that's easier than saying they do care about me.
When people even comment, sometimes they're like, you know, they love you,
like they're like, whatever it is, it kind of, it, it stings for me to even
say that because I'm like, if, like they love me, like, even if you think I'm
going to hell, this is a point I thought about recently.
If like, if they think I'm going to hell, we're like, I'm not going to be
changing in this.
I'm like, they think I am.
That's the biggest point.
But like if people, if they really got to the biggest point of it, I could be
talking to them right now.
I'm not going to be changing in this.
So if you can think I'm going to hell anyways, like spend your last time on
earth with someone loving them, you know, but I don't know.
It's just very wild to me that like people, it's hard to imagine them loving
you and being so brainwashed.
They think they're doing what's best for you.
I mean, and it comes to a point and I used to say that so on the opposite end
to where it was so much that I excused a lot of everything.
So it's kind of hard to find that balance of, you know, not excusing it,
but like having an understanding to help yourself heal.
Yeah.
And that's kind of where I've come to lately with a lot of it, not fully,
obviously, because it's still, you know, it's always going to hit home to some
extent, but where it's hard, but that's definitely a big, big, big factor.
It's, it's, I appreciate that you can acknowledge that because it is a, it's
a really big point.
We have family members in my family who, who are like very,
I'll say the word.
It's hard to find the word sometimes.
Conspiratorial.
Yeah.
I'm trying to be nice.
They're very conspiratorial, but to the level where, you know, flat earth,
flat earth level, the worst.
My parents, yeah, that's, my parents are into, I might be butchering this,
but is it Q, Q and on Q and on Q and on.
Yeah.
Yeah.
My parents are deep into that.
They even went to a conference, not too long ago in Texas and they're,
this is a new thing.
So this is, this is something else that I'll get into, but not that part,
but like with our relationship, that's a big thing.
There's been page on Facebook for the conspiracy and stuff.
So it's, it's a lot.
The thing, the thing is, I think that what happens is, so with, with our,
with our family, um, we have, we've had them rely on God.
For what they perceive as God for a long time to get them through the
heartbreaks of life, to get them through, um, problems in their marriage,
to get them through, um, you know, people passing and they rely on this concept of
God and yeah.
And like a hope, it gives them a hope.
Yeah.
Otherwise, like what else is there sometimes?
I've, I've thought about that too.
Yeah.
And then when they leave that, like to, to kind of question that perspective
makes their whole like,
deep down with all that circles down and it's like a domino effect.
So when something like something that's quite, um, like proven at this stage,
things like evolution or, or, um, something that makes them feel uncomfortable,
the big bang or something or the age of the earth, not being 6,000 years
about them and even stuff like stuff that's like pretty scientific.
Like we have a lot of scientific merit, merit for it and things being observable
fact, um, these make them so uncomfortable.
And if, if science, if they, they believe that science is a liar and if
science is a liar, sometimes what else they're lying about.
And then they form these communities that go, they're lying here and then it
becomes this like self perpetuating and their logic is circular reasoning.
And I've always said this and I didn't realize it until like, you know,
I just came to a point where I was like, I was trying, I was trying to question
to understand, like to gain wisdom and, you know, everything.
And my dad's a doctor.
Like he's had, he's been educated, you know, obviously education was different
at that time or whatever.
And they learned different things and, you know, whatever, but he's a very smart
guy and I don't know, I don't know if he'd be like this.
Like I don't not saying this to put it all on my mom.
They very much so, or they go with each other with that, but I don't know
where he'd be with all this cause he used to not be very, you know,
into the stuff, but, um, it's just interesting to see their thought
process.
They'll be like, well, Haley, where do you think the first person came from?
And I'm like, I'm trying to ask, like I'm, I'm trying to talk about, they
can't even let themselves go there and be like, I was like, that just doesn't
make sense to me.
Like I'll just say certain things.
And it's just very interesting.
And a lot of the Bible is, you know, translated incorrectly.
And this is a, people will cut their ears off right when I say that.
But the funniest thing is they'll be like, you obviously don't know the Bible
talking to me and I'll be like, actually, you don't, because when I say I have,
this has made me go into this whole mindset so heavily because I wanted to
know, I even told myself there's always going to be some bias, but I went into it.
But genuinely, if there's a way to have no bias, I was like, God or whatever.
I was like, God, tell me, show me if I'm wrong and like homosexual, like if it's
actually a sin and I'm going to go to hell, blah, blah, blah, like it's scared
like you want to know, you want to know.
Yeah.
And I was like, if that in that case, I guess I would be like Paul and like
these things, you know, like that scared the mess out of me.
So I was like, I was looking at the actual words and there's one word in Greek
I cannot even rightly say.
And I've gone to every single verse they pick and choose and cherry pick or
whatever is what they call it here.
And like there's just certain like every like the word homosexuality wasn't in
the Bible until 1946.
And so that is wild to me.
It meant pedophilia at the time.
If you looked at the two separate words that it actually means in the Greek
and then they try to throw in like Leviticus, like the Old Testament,
which there's so many laws that was nailed to the cross.
When Jesus, you know, one, one chapter beforehand, they say one chapter
beforehand in Leviticus 19, I think it might be, says not to wear a clothing
of two mixed fabrics or like that's something that's in theaters or something
you can't eat. I don't even know.
There's a lot of stuff that are like certain types of clothing and things like
that. So all of that was nailed to the cross with the Old Testament or whatever
or the Old Covenant is what I call it.
But then they try to bring up Romans and then there's if people would actually
take the time to, you know, dig into the actual word.
It's always funny because since like they come at me with that, I'm like,
y'all haven't even done that, but they won't do it.
I've told I really was kind of surprised with my dad.
I thought he would when I said that.
But it's because it's like the domino effect.
Like they they can't there's my new favorite thing at the moment is when
someone tells me that the Bible is the perfect Word of God, I ask them to tell
me what Matthew, I think it's Matthew 18, I'll put it on the screen, Matthew 18,
10 sets. And the reason I ask them to look at that is because there is no Matthew
18, 10, it goes from Matthew 18, no, 11, sorry, goes from Matthew 18, 11 to 12.
And the reason is because the early translations, the King James version,
use manuscripts and we've since found, can you hear that?
It's very faint.
We are the newer manuscript, the the the earliest manuscripts were found
since the King James was created in 1611 have shown that that wasn't in there.
So they just have to just have to go from Matthew 10 to 12, which is funny.
For the perfect Word of God, because what my parents would say in response to it,
they'll be like, well, God put in what the Bible ended up like with what God
wanted it to. And I said, that makes no sense.
If also it talks about how human nature or whatever humans are imperfect,
they send all these things. You expect all these men, one, not like shitting on
you because you're a man, but I'm saying like it's always been like certain men,
like the church and the church has been corrupt.
Like you've even seen like in the Catholic church, like certain, like they've
been abusing their power. There have been so many, just all sorts of things,
people translating things differently. And it's just very wild to me that like
they just rationalize it by saying, and then my mom will also say, or in a lot
of people, not just her, this is when I just, it's like talking to a wall and I
just, I just shut down. They'll be like, well, God told me this,
like I have my relationship with God, but by them saying that it's downplaying
my relationship with, because I especially at the time, like I don't know
what I call it now, but at the time I was like, I still have a relationship
with God, like who's like, they'll be like, well, no, you're in a, like it's
an abomination to be a, like, so they basically just don't think I have any,
didn't have, think I have any form. They just basically just didn't matter.
So when people usually get to that stage where they say, God told me, I ask them,
I say, okay, would you be able to pray and you can take as much time as you need?
You can get back to me any year's time if you need to, but ask God what he wants
me to know that will convince me of his existence.
Yep. And then they'll be like, well, we, you just have to have faith.
And I was like, yeah. And then this is so, this is so, you notice this is
exactly what happened in the debate I did recently. And then I said, can I talk
to you about faith? And they said, yeah. And I said, if faith can lead me to
Yahweh and lead you to Allah or Zeus, doesn't that demonstrate that faith is
an unreliable pathway to truth? And then they went pause for like five
seconds and was like, no, that's like, how? Yeah, I'll be like saying, like,
okay, this shirt is this color. And they'll be like, okay, well, and they're
like, they'll try to argue with nothing. Like it's, it's wild to me.
And I'm just, it just makes no sense. And at the end of the day, what it boils
down to, it doesn't matter what you say, the, if you have certain type of
sin or something they don't agree with, they'll just basically put you as
ignorant and their mind and be like, well, you're just, you know, turning or
they call me, this is what I got all the time. Because I used to be like, I had
my little work like teenagers do, like, but honestly, I didn't have as many of
rebellious phase. I never drank in high school. I never, not like, like, you
know, whatever, do your own thing. But like, I just telling you, I was such a
like into like church and I didn't do any of these things. So I'm like, I
really wasn't that I was like the least bit rebellious, like, you know,
whatever. But I even went on a Christian trolley bus as my prom like group. They
wouldn't let me go with like the people I wanted to because I was like super
into, you know, whatever. It's very strange, the whole, you know, scene. But I
don't know, they would be like, you're rebellious. You just, you just want your
way. You're so independent, blah, blah, blah. And I'm like, honestly, y'all don't
like, they just, the more they would say, I'm like, y'all don't know me and my
heart at all. Because I'm a Pisces. I am so like, I am an emotional person. I
care deeply. Like, can I just I, because of them, I've like, you know, been able to
like dissociate. And I don't think it's been able to. It's more so like, I don't
want to. I've just I have and it's been rough. You know,
the just to quickly talk, I really want to tell you this story where this is
pastor who's starting a church in our local community. So we live in like a
new suburb kind of area in the Sunshine Coast, Australia. And this is new. This is
out that came on on Facebook that was like, I'm starting a church and I said,
I said to the guy, I said, Hey, Shane, I'd like to ask you questions about your
church. And I said, because I'm a member of the community, I'd like to know. And I
said, what does your church teach about homosexuality? And I was like, obviously
different churches handle this differently. And he replied in this long
message, like privately, and he said, these are any basically his argument was
like, and it was like, you know, a lot of texts. And basically, his argument was
Jesus loves people. We're going to love Jesus. And then some people may have to,
you know, we all have sin and some people may have to walk away from this into
to follow Jesus. Right. And he goes, Oh, this is just what the gospel is about.
And I go, Okay, cool. So I can understand that that's at least a rational
thought process he's got. And I said, but I said, I've got three problems with
this, Shane. I said, my first problem is that these teachings are, we know that
they're harmful, teaching kids that, you know, that homosexuality is a sin and
that this part of them is not is something that needs to be removed or
cleansed or fixed. Right. And I was like, as my parents. Yeah. And I was like, but
I could, I could almost get, I could almost, I can't, but I could almost be
okay with church teaching things that are harmful to humanity. I think if people
want to do things that are harmful, I think we've got to have a conversation
about how much harm do we want with freedom of speech and all that stuff?
Right. But my second two points, I still had a huge issue with this. The second
point was you'll say that homosexuality is a sin, yet Jesus never mentioned
homosexuality in the New Testament. Paul mentioned homosexuality and the Old
Testament mentioned homosexuality. And I was like, but the problem is the Old
Testament also mentions slavery, how you can be a slave, how you can own a slave
to take the Virgin women's women for yourself to the slave. Yeah.
Exodus 21 talks about how you to own Hebrew slaves and how you can own them
for life, how you meant to give them way up to seven years or to buy slaves from
the nations around you. And those slaves you can give to your children as
inheritance. Now, Jesus never spoke on slavery either. But Paul did. And Paul
said slaves obey your masters, even the cruel ones. And I said, so when you say
that you're teaching biblical morality, I'm sure that if I asked you, hey, is it
okay for a Christian to own a slave, you'd say no. Where it's exactly the same.
It was in the Old Testament. Jesus never mentioned it, like homosexuality and
Paul mentioned it and said slaves obey your masters, even the cruel ones. It was
never reformed. So I said, I just don't know how you square this because unless
you're going to teach that slavery is moral for Christians, that is, and like
they're going to say, it means, it means, it means bondservant. It means, it
means, um, employment. No, no, no, no. Forget the word then. The ownership of
another human being as property. If you're not going to say that that's okay,
then you're not teaching biblical morality. You're teaching your own morality.
Just pick from parts of the Bible that you enjoy. And, and I said, so I'd like,
I'd like to comment and he just, he's left me on read. It's been about five days
now and I'm waiting for his response because I know that I don't know how he
can square, he can, he can square and dot.
And that's exactly it. And this is another thing that kind of made me just
think of it's like, then when we say these things, it's like, then they just
get like, a lot of people, not him, I'm saying, but just people in general,
cause I've had a similar, you know, similar type of conversations. They get
mad and they're just like, well, you know, and then they write you off with
something, but it's just very interesting.
Yeah. And I'm like, I'm really exactly, I'm just trying to have like a
conversation, you know, like, and then they can't, they just can't do it.
So it's just like, and a lot of times the ones that are so angry at the
homosexuals are the ones that are struggling, struggling with it.
Yeah. Because I used to be that person. I remember in high school, there's this
one girl I ended up apologizing to her later. I remember I tried to convert her
even, like, and be like, or convert or whatever you want to call her and I
call it. And I was like, yeah, I, you know, I think it was a sin. And I like,
the things I even said, I, looking back, like, I'm so glad she never like
harmed herself or did anything, which I will bring that full circle at the end.
Because that's like a closing point more so, but it's just very, it's wild to
me, but I want to get back on that, finish that little part of like the
story. But so basically coming back, so after we went to that pride thing, it
was just very like such a, you know, nice moment. I just finally got to the
point where I was like, I need, I just need to know more and like, you know, a
lot of kids, they'll look at porn. And I was again, never a sexual like person.
You know, I just like, it wasn't like the thought of it. That's not something I
was like seeking at the time. I was just very curious, like a lot of kids are,
which to each its own, whatever, I just, I was curious. So I looked it up and
it wasn't just like that I looked up like lesbian or like, I looked up like
certain types or whatever, I just looked up whatever, because I just didn't
even know what fully was or whatever, because I just wasn't aware. So I looked
it up and of course they immediately saw that there was like one thing, cause
they saw my journal or whatever. They immediately saw that it was, there was
something that was lesbian, but it was literally, there was a lot of everything.
And it was just more so just seeing. And anyways, from then on out, that's when
things escalated like horribly. And yeah, they can say that I was a rebellious
kid or whatever, but I really just, I didn't do much of anything in high
school. If anything, I could definitely, I was definitely like a bratty kid and
stuff like that at times, looking back and I've apologized for it as much as I
can. But you know, I don't know what else I don't remember a lot, but I do
remember that I was kind of bratty and things like that. But also I just remember
being the things that they said was like disrespectful was me questioning them,
like their beliefs, but not just trying to be rude about it, just being like,
Hey, and then it just became a huge spiral because then I'd get livid because
I wasn't being heard and things like that. But more so, like that's a huge,
huge problem. I did not downplaying that. Like that's a big thing that a lot of
people, but also another big problem is I wanted to be able to like, I hate lying.
I can't stand it. And if you say, I don't even know, in the two messages that
were shown on, I don't wish those were only two messages on Tik Tok, but you
know, you get to see, but on one of the messages that is like in that, either in
those or something, another one, they were, they'd be like, you've told us so
many lies, you know, blah, blah, blah. I'm like, the only thing, because at first,
when I first started out, obviously, like, I'm not obviously, I mean, I shouldn't
have, I remember like being like, no, I'd like, you know, covering it up. And that
is a lie. Like I was covering it up because I didn't want it. I wasn't even
sure, but like, I just didn't know. But more so, I stopped lying and I was just
finally got to the point, I just didn't tell them unless they directly asked me,
because why would I put myself in that situation for more, you know, mental
harm? And I then basically, it was like, I was like, I finally told my mom, and
this was like throughout college, the timeline is very strange, but like, I
just remember being like, look, do you want me to tell you everything? Because I
will. And because I was like, I said, I was like, I finally just hit a point. I
was just like, you know, if you want me to, I will. They didn't yet. But then
they basically, so right when I started going to college, this has been a whole
thing. Like we had a huge, we had so many huge blowout arguments because I wasn't
really able to hang out with my friend, Rachel anymore. But I really didn't have
a crush on her at that point. It was just more so like, it was the first place I
felt like safe, even though it's not like they were like going to harm me
physically. I just more so like, gay safe, you know what I'm saying? But also, I
just felt like I was always walking on eggshells. What was that?
Do you mind if I ask, were you on Rachel? Like you guys was she straight?
That's the funniest part. Like she, she knows I have like an appreciation for
her because without her, yeah, I probably would have found out, but like it was
more so I probably would have found out way later, like way, way later. And I'm
really grateful for her mommy. And I don't even know if she knows because it's
like more so like just seeing like her living her life and not in the
bondage of all this mess.
It was just more that they didn't like Rachel because you had a crush on her.
And more so and the fact that her mom was gay, so they thought that her demons
were going to bounce on me or whatever. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it was I wasn't
able to go in that prom group and I ended up having to go like, yes, some of
these people were really cool in that prom group. But like at that point,
people were pretty, I was pretty much so over church and things like this at
that point, not fully, but like I just was so over like a lot of stuff. I just
didn't really want to not a lot of people knew that, but like I just was not
wanting to be in that group. I wanted to go with like Rachel and them, but I had
to stick with, you know, this and it's funny because my I don't really like
talking about my sister a lot because she has thoughts like a relationship with
her. I love my sister to death. She's the one person in my life that is in my
family that is great. But this has this is very generic. She basically she's
straight. So she got to do whatever. Like, you know, it's not that she did
anything bad and stuff like that, but she like to go to whatever prom group.
Like, you know, if anything, I was more like by the book textbook, you know, like
legalistic, I guess, but that's kind of what they wanted, even though they
wouldn't admit that. But like I was very by the book and things. And so it was
just very interesting. I didn't have like a sip of alcohol. I had never having
one sip of alcohol in high school, but I didn't even drink at all until like my
second year of college or something. But yeah, so that was wild. But either way.
So basically they put this is where it gets wild. They basically made me start
going to see my mother's best friend. They're not best friend, but really close
friend who went to their church at the time. Some reason they're not friends
anymore, which I don't even understand their whole cult. They had a split
separation. But her best friend, she I know she used to have a license, but I
don't I've heard through the grapevine of many people that like it doesn't. This
is a thing in America. I don't know how it is other places, but like the church
can still get away with so much in religious places like this, because they
can call it a ministry and do Christian help in like Christian counseling, but
not therapy. So they can get away with anything, even if she wasn't licensed.
It wouldn't have mattered. I don't even I genuinely don't know. I think she might
be in it. I don't know. Either way, it's just I know a counselor. I know a
counselor is super well respected and he slept with one of his clients when he
had a wife. And he blames her and says she came on to me and he had to step
down from ministry for like a year. And now he's back running his own church or
like being a big part of his and everyone's like, yeah, good man. Like
holy, holy. I don't even mind. I don't even mind saying this on this at all
because they air my stuff out and everything. It's not about airing it
out. It's just more so the fact of the matter is that they're, you know, my
dad, there's been, you know, what's the word in discretion? There's been some
things that, you know, are against the Bible. Let's say, you know, in the
marriage, you know, that it's just very interesting that and wasn't just a one
time thing that like, you know, that that happened and I'm just like, I'm like,
that's interesting. But like, since I guess it's not, they always said, it's
a habitual sin. I can't stand the word lifestyle. If someone says that to me, I
literally want to punch them, but I'm like, that's what word that makes me mad.
And it's funny because I used to even say that and call it like in the song, in
the song, dear mom and dad, there's this one part that says, like my life, I
wouldn't choose my life. I literally had the word lifestyle in it for so long.
But before I recorded it, I like, I remember hearing in the car, and this is
when things were switching internally in me. And I was like, this is not just a
this is not a lifestyle. Like that's just, you say the heterosexual lifestyle.
Like that just sounds silly as fuck. Like, that's so makes me so mad.
So no, the, um, that the colon, my colon, sorry to keep interrupting. I've just
got so many things.
I know, like it's a mild story, all of it.
Okay. Um, uh, Colin, the one I interviewed in the Deep Drinks, the first
episode, he, um, he was like, I don't know who would choose this life. Like he's
like, you get persecuted, everyone.
They're like, well, you have someone and it was good. And I'm like, yeah, but
there's a lot of things that feel good that I'm just like, this is not like
that. But eating cheese feels good, but it's not a lifestyle.
Yeah, I'm like, but like, um, and he had this one friend of his from
ministry on her fourth marriage, explained to him how the homosexuals are
trying to ruin the sanctity of marriage. And I'm like, and he's like, I can't,
and if you say anything, she blows up screams and runs out of the room and
then you're the one who's like, yes.
And they, they're literally like, there's so many things.
There's one, there's just some things that I can't say on this, but it's just
very wild that you hear some things that are, you're just like, you're calling
me this. And they also always like refer to homosexuals as pedophiles.
I can't stand that they're like, or bestiality or something. They'll be
like, since you can't, where are we going to draw the line?
If you can have sex with a woman, when like, what about a kid?
Is that what's going to be next? And I said, there, so there was this one
thing on Facebook that went, it was trending not too long ago.
And it was some weird sign that I've never even seen before.
And I dug into it because I wanted to know, because I had a feeling
and I was right. And, but basically it was this whole thing.
And they made it seem like the gaze started this whole trend about like how
making pedophile, like, you know, what is it like?
Making it seem fine.
There's a word for it. I just can't think of it normalizing it. Maps. Yeah.
I don't, I don't even know.
But basically they were trying to normalize that and put it in with the word,
you know, the LGBTQ.
Oh, yeah. So it's like LGBT.
Yeah. And I was like, we were like,
I was like, I bet you money a Christian started this
and is putting it on us.
And that is exactly what it was.
I found I literally was researching it. Yeah.
And this is a huge thing.
People will do this all the time and troll us because it just comes back on us
because like, I mean, it's just very like, what is that logic?
Like it's too consensual.
Hey, and we're both about like of age, like it makes no sense.
Like relationship that it's just wild.
That's what I said to Shane as well, the pastor from this area.
I said, Shane, I like the Bible is explicitly not talking about
two people who love monogamous people who love each other in like a marriage.
They're talking like, I was like, you can't say that has anything to do
with the homosexuality we see today.
And they're like, well, it's not Adam and Steve.
It's yeah.
Do you know what?
Wow, that's a great argument.
If you said that in any other debate, wow, like it's Adam.
And I had to come up with a quote for that.
It was like, it's like if someone said that, like, do they expect that quote
right there? They say that all the time.
OK, OK, I'm just going to go.
I'm going to go kiss a man.
I'm going to go see the man now.
Thank you. It's Adam and Eve.
It's Adam and Eve, not Adam and Steve, unless Steve isn't into Eve.
That's what I come up with.
And then another thing I said is another thing I thought of is it's not
it's Adam and Eve, Adam and Steve.
It's also Miff.
So it's like, yes.
Or have you got that?
And something that goes with that, it's like, OK, so you're coming at me.
It's always these it's always the misogynistic type men.
Usually these country bumpkins that are.
Yeah, you know, whatever.
Yes, piercings. Yeah.
Yes, and hopped off like to look like they just hopped off of like
Duck Dynasty season, whatever.
And I'm like, I'm like, OK, look, they say just the craziest things.
And I'm like, OK, sir, let me see your search history.
Have you ever searched?
Are you like watching any of this stuff?
Because, hmm, like, if you're watching it and partaking in it,
which I bet you, many majority of them are like watching like one
because they're the same people that are like, oh, can I watch or can I do this?
And I'm like, who?
Yeah, I have a theory.
I think I don't know.
I think lesbian porn is the most accepted.
I think who doesn't love lesbian porn?
I don't know. Exactly. I'm like, I think even straight girls can.
They'll be like, I mean, they don't obviously get off.
But they'll be like, it's just interesting.
Like they're very beautiful women.
You know, like, like, but I'm like, but if you're going to judge that,
like, yeah, they're the same people that I would love to see their search history.
That's what I've always said.
You know, but do you remember part?
Do you remember Pastor Todd Haggard, Ted Haggard?
That name sounds so familiar.
He was this preacher who would even like a preacher that every Sunday
would preach against the homosexual lifestyle or the homosexual, the gays.
And then these are coming.
I have a show that says that.
Yeah, please. How is the, how is the word coming spelt?
I think it's a good question.
If it's not spelled that way, they should have.
The anyway, he, he's, he's gay.
His regular gay prostitute that he would hire came out and spoke out against him
because he would preach against the gays on the week on the Sunday.
But then on the Saturday night, he'd be doing meth with this gay prostitute
and banging him all night.
Like it's like, man, like I wonder how many of these like really anti-gay pastors are just.
If, yeah, if you want, have you ever seen the show or the movie
that's on Netflix, not too long ago, was like, pray away?
Yeah. Yeah. I was actually going to ask you wild. Yeah.
That was eyeopening.
And that's something that I resonated with a lot of the stuff.
So I don't call my the therapy.
So basically, I don't know if I said that.
So basically, my parents gave me an ultimatum and they were like, OK,
all of a sudden, is this the straw?
Is this the straw that broke like there's two different straws,
but this is one of them.
But I went for a long time.
So basically, my parents, all of a sudden, like I had no warning.
Like I know they kicked me out for like two weeks,
but I lived with like my best friend or something.
Just for just a whole mess, like literally on graduation.
I remember there was like a buildup and I just didn't want to be around any of them
because they made me feel like crap for so long.
And so, yeah, I wasn't going to be all happy, happy.
So they're pissed that I'm not being the grateful, you know, kid that they've always
had, you know, and so, yes, I should have handled some things different.
But again, and I don't mean to excuse it because I was a kid, but like also,
like at the same time, a lot of the things I had a right to be
not want to be buddy buddy with my family and certain things.
But I remember it was crazy on my graduation.
I accidentally bumped into my grandpa's car.
Great, of course, like my life is just a series of shit show events.
But my mom came out in front of everyone because this was literally a pile up of things.
She was like, this is a representation of your life.
And I was like, never have forgotten that note, that phrase.
And I was like, OK, well,
so I lived with my best friend after that.
They put all my stuff in trash bags and we threw it out my window
and then we went to and packed it up with them.
Basically, I like reality hit me because I was like financially like, you know,
I had I'd worked my whole like since I was like 16 Chick-fil-A, by the way.
Funny as it is because I work.
I don't know much about Chick-fil-A.
We don't have it in Australia, so.
But yeah, they're anti gay or something.
Yeah. And yeah, that's a whole even.
Yeah. Well, I hate my life.
But that I need to I need to stop you because
I just want to be careful of time.
Are you OK to keep talking?
Like how long have you got?
I'll talk forever, but I have plenty of time. Yeah.
OK, cool. So I did have to we normally do like 60 to 90 minutes.
But if we can go longer, that's totally cool.
I'm enjoying this conversation a lot.
I also want to get some ice for my drinks and you keep your buzz.
OK, we're back from our little intonation.
I mean, obviously, as this goes on, the the alcohol will take effect.
And I imagine the conversation will get more
debauchery or go into some weird directions.
So for sure, we'll both end up crying by the end.
That's the goal.
That's the goal. It doesn't take much from me.
I'm like, yes, my parents, basically, yeah, they gave me an ultimatum.
And but they did it.
They would never call it that.
They do it in a way where they make you.
It's it's super gaslighting.
This is a lot of Christians.
I'm not just saying just my parents.
Like, I know a lot of people do it.
They basically make and I even thought this for the longest time,
just like they made me feel like I was being disrespectful for questioning them.
They made me feel like I wanted to do these things.
But basically, I would have had no financial support all of a sudden.
And I was going to call it like already like enrolled, like doing things.
It was just it was a train wreck.
And so it wasn't just like financial like freaking me out
because I knew that I could do I ended up having three jobs at one point.
Like I I've got I paid off all my student loans by myself towards the end.
Like I'm proud of where I am with all that by myself.
But at the time, I like I think it was like not even a full year for a year.
I don't even really know.
It might have been I don't even know.
But basically, I think it was like two years, actually, where
they were partially doing some stuff.
And with that and they were also like, look,
if you we will still have you in the family as well.
And when I say my family, it includes my grandparents, my aunt and uncle.
I do have one really, really cool uncle on it's my dad's brother.
But I don't even really know if he claims him anymore.
But he's he's by he's very like open and free.
And like he's just he's a he's a Christian.
He's super he's just been there for me.
He's like the first person out of the family that I called, other than like,
you know, my parents, I didn't really get to come come out to which, you know,
whatever. But I knew that I was going to.
But we don't really see them a lot ever.
So I didn't like my close family.
I knew I was going to lose them all.
And I just knew that if I didn't do what they were
selling me and go to this therapy and they don't trust normal therapy,
like normal therapy, which that's what I'm going into now,
because I think it's kind of of the devil almost.
They have to be like a Christian counseling type thing.
And so they're like, if you don't, you know, do it basically, then they're
going to lose them all. And eventually I did.
But I had to kind of come to terms with that, because that's a lot to lose
all at once. And it's just it was very overwhelming and super stressful.
And I was at a very, very low point.
And so I chose to an apartment me was still very much so brainwashed.
Like I was tired of the church at some parts, but then a part of me
just kept getting drawn back in because I was so scared of hell
because I was being, you know, scared into submission.
And that's not even if you use their own words against them, even if you don't
believe in God, you know, God, that their God, that God is not a God of shame.
Like he's a God of conviction, but not shame.
And I never felt convicted about any of these things.
There's always shame and condemnation. There's a difference.
And so basically I was going to this therapy
and this it's there are some things like you can do like normal
therapy and like it was like you talk about some normal stuff.
But there was a lot of stuff that was just I don't even know.
Like that's why I call it gay therapy, not conversion therapy, because it's not
like the typical like they're not hooking me up.
I knew I have some friends that have had to go through like electric,
like just certain things that you see on TV, I guess.
But a lot of the stuff is just subtle brainwash
and something I'm going to be showing on TikTok soon.
I thought I'd be able to like joke about it, I guess, and stuff kind of
because I did joke about it at first was the five stages of homosexuality.
But I emailed my old she used to be gay is what she says.
So either she was by or something along the lines or she was I don't even know.
I don't or she still is she ready.
She always radiated that to me that she was.
So I was always like, it was a very strange dynamic.
She was like, no, I've been delivered. That's the word they use.
They don't really my mom is basically
I'm sorry, I'm jumping everywhere.
But basically my mom's like an exorcist without the title.
When we throw this in there, the official title that you hear from like,
you know, like Catholic Church and things like that.
But like she does that kind of thing.
They call it deliverance.
And so my old, you know, used to be gay therapist,
which I only say her first name, Valerie.
She, you know, said that she's been delivered
and they've tried to like pray those out of me.
It's just certain things. It's just very, very wild.
I have to. Yeah, yeah, I know that's a lot.
There's so many, there's so many things that like,
I've wanted to interact like five times, but I really want to hear your story.
But yeah, but like the I had the exact same thing.
You know that you have a tick tock where you think that you thought
you're going to be delivered like the Benny Hinn, like, ah, like foaming at the male.
Oh, yeah, like the gay of the gay is gone.
You know, I had that exact same thing
when I went through a really rough stage in my life
and kind of came back to church when Amy and I first got together.
And I went to see pastors and counsellors and worship leaders
and everyone I could waiting for this experience, trying to like,
I was like, I need to be delivered.
And they kept saying, maybe, you know, I don't know if you need to be delivered
or you want to change, I guess, because you want to.
You don't want to disappoint you, but you also want to do it for yourself
because you see that that's what you're supposed to be doing.
Yeah. Yeah.
And I had internal like I internal things going on and anxieties
and depression and stuff that I want to be delivered from.
And I thought I had broken myself by, you know, walking away
and smoking weed and all this stuff.
I thought that I was like broken and I needed to be delivered.
I had demons and stuff.
And I had this like experience once when I was high, where I
I felt like what I would call like demons enter the room or whatever.
But now looking back, I just go, no, that was just an intrusive thought.
But I remember thinking that I had like demons
and the same thing that I wanted to be delivered.
Well, if anything, but the religious parts of that,
because I've had the same thing happen, it definitely intrusive thought
and stuff, but it's like your mind, since you had all that prior stuff.
It's like almost just like paranoia.
I think that the religious stuff just hops in there because it wants to scare.
You know, the cycle, like you probably didn't even thought about that.
You just been like, oh, it's just a passing thing.
But since you know all that stuff, that's why I can't.
I can't smoke because I told my friends, like it's just really hard to explain.
Like they'll be like, I'd be like, it almost like just makes me feel like
I'm on some like hallucinogenic almost because like what I'm just saying,
like because it it's just not a good experience for me
because I think about everything that you were just saying even,
but continue what you're saying.
It's it's it's so just to just to duck over to what you said before
about the psychology, too, is I went to so many Christian counselors
and I had this one time, my parents really sat me down and they're like, Dave,
you need to go to a psychologist.
And I was like, no, and I was like, no, go to a psychologist.
Like just like nothing's bad is going to happen.
Just go to see one and I go and see one.
And the first, you know, the first I had these intrusive thoughts
that I thought were the voice of God and the voice of God was telling me.
And I hope you don't mind me kind of spending some time to explain this.
But essentially, I was making this thing, this this jewelry box for Amy.
And I felt like I just stepped forward in my relationship with God.
So I was making the jewelry box, me and her were just getting together.
And I was making this jewelry box for her and I was like spending
and listening to worship music, listening to the Hillsong, I think it was.
And I just felt this feeling like I'm going to go.
I'm going to open my heart back up to God.
And I'm going to like open that up and I'm going to pray to God.
And because I just feel so happy right now.
And I did.
And as soon as I did that, that that process of like
internally feeling like I opened up my heart and pray to God,
I heard this booming voice, not heard, but like felt this booming thing.
Say during like almost during like your Jesus high, almost.
Yeah. And I said, break up with Amy.
And I went, whoa.
And I like and I held back and I was just like, what are you?
And I was like, and I thought and it was I was like,
this is the voice of God coming to break up Amy.
I had a massive panic attack.
I was vomiting like I ran outside and I was vomiting from this
because I was like, I'm going to break Amy's heart.
God just told me to break up with Amy.
And this is when my parents said, go to a psychologist.
And I was going to counselors and every Christian counselor I said,
like would see they were saying, no, the Bible usually brings people together.
And there's nothing that you guys are doing like you're both kind of your
relationship is actually helping you both and you walk with God.
And you're both going to church a lot.
And like this, like everyone, all the pastors and counselors I was talking to
were saying, that doesn't seem right.
So I go to the psychologist, right?
First session of the psychologist side college goes.
All right, just like a checkbox of stuff.
And I was like, this guy is just crap.
The next time I go there and this is, this is, this, this was a breaking point for me.
He said, okay, he talked to me about this.
And he goes, because he asked me in the previous one, what's your thoughts?
What would have gone through your head when you're having a panic attack?
What's like the at the peak?
And I said, oh, it's God wants me to break up with Amy.
And I'm sitting in the psychologist's office and I'm Christian.
Really strong Christian.
And he says, I want you to repeat out loud.
God wants me to break up with Amy.
And I said, no, I said, no, no, no, I can't do, I can't do that.
Because if I say it, I'm confessing something into the world.
And then, you know, what if I, yeah, you're speaking less things and curses.
That's what my mom always said.
And you were speaking it and I literally was just talking to
someone about that kind of thing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then I was like, I can't do this.
I can't do this.
And he's like, he's like, I'm like, what if I push past you, run out the door, get on
the phone and break up with her over the phone.
And he's like, would I be a good psychologist if I didn't know what I was
doing?
And I'm like, no, I was like, oh, and I argue with him for a while.
And then I was like, fine, I'll do it.
And I sat there and I said, what if God wants me to break up with Amy?
And he's like, do it again.
And I was like, what if God wants me to break up Amy?
He's like, do it again.
And I was like, I'm getting a panic and he's like, do it again.
I'm like, what if God wants to break up Amy?
And he's like, do it again.
And he kept making me do it.
And I'm like, okay, I'm panicking now.
And I was actually having like this full on panic attack in his office.
And I'm looking for a binde vomiting, because it was getting that internally
intense, right?
So he's like, and he's like, say it again.
And I'm like, what if God was to break out of Amy?
He's like, say it again.
I'm like, what if God wants break up.
Amy's like, say it again.
I'm like, what if, and then all of a sudden it was like click.
And I was like, what if God wants me to break up Amy's like, say it again.
I'm like, what if God wants me to, and he's like, say it again.
I'm like, what if God wants me.
And I was like, why am I thinking this?
And all the anxiety.
Everything just left.
like some sort of spiritual, like cleansing.
Ah-ha moment, yeah.
Yeah, and it was like, I was like,
why did I even think that?
And it was like all that power that I had.
Anyway, long story short,
what I used to call the voice of God was just an OCD tick.
And, um.
Steve, that's literally what I've been having.
I still have to like, I'm like really bad about it.
No.
Still like, I'm always like, like what?
Yeah.
And also I have to remind myself,
even if sometimes I have to use,
like I say use their own logic against them,
sometimes I have to use my old logic against my own self.
And I'll be like, wait, no,
because if God's a God of peace,
then that's not like, I'm not feeling,
like I have to like, rationalize, you know, sometimes,
and I don't even believe like a lot of stuff I did.
Like, you know, but that makes total sense.
100% what you're saying.
Cause I resonate with that.
And I'm still like, I still catch myself like,
even if I say something that normal people would be like,
what?
I'd be like, I can't say that like,
because like speaking something, you know,
intakes, I don't know.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Exactly.
But yeah.
Can I ask you just quickly?
So you don't consider yourself religious per se.
You may have some.
I call myself spiritual.
And yes, like, I just hate the word Christian itself,
but I don't hate Christians.
I just, I don't know.
It's just like, because of the trauma with it.
You love the religious, just not the religion.
Yes.
Yeah.
I hope you get that reference.
You get that reference?
Love the sin, hate the sin.
That is, that is like, I don't know.
I'm trying to figure it out still,
but like I want to say I have a relationship with something.
Like I sometimes I'll even say mother nature
or like the universe or I don't know what I call it,
but I just know that I'm connected to something.
Like I've just seen some things though,
like there is people want to call it the demonic or whatever.
I'm not saying I've seen,
like I've just witnessed some things that I can't explain.
I'm not going to put,
I just think there's some things in the universe
that probably should not ever be touched or like delved,
like there's just something like,
I don't even know what it is.
Like even people or even like witchcraft or something people,
there's always something that someone doesn't agree with.
And I think it's probably whatever my mom has dug into
because we just seen some interesting things to say the least.
It's one thing too.
Like I have a lot of like spiritual experiences I've had,
like incredible experiences throughout my life.
I remember one time I think we saw gold dust appear
in someone's hand at church.
Oh yeah, I've seen that.
Yeah, I don't even really understand.
Or I've seen like,
if you want to call it demonic or whatever,
I've seen someone foam at the mouth
right after we read a Bible verse that spoke about that.
Or I've seen my mom do her own little thing,
like it's interesting.
And I've even had that like type of thing done.
And I've also, I even tried, like I was so into it.
And I thought that my mom,
what she was doing was like normal.
That I've even prayed like prayed over to like whatever,
tried to do that with my friend one time
and had a very weird, like it was, I was younger.
And we both still to this day have no idea
how to explain any of the stuff that happened.
And ever since we've just had some very like,
we call it like our house was haunted.
We had weird stuff happen that we just don't even know
how to explain that I just wish we would have never
even remotely gotten into, you know?
Well, just before we get back to your story,
my take on all that stuff is two things.
One, if we don't understand it or we don't,
we can't explain it, that's the answer.
I don't know what it was.
I can't explain it.
And secondly,
I've literally, that's exactly what it is.
You just have to just accept it, but some people don't.
And that's when I'm like, that's when weird things happen
and bad things start happening the follow after like, you know?
Yeah.
Well, the second thing is not touching a truth claim to those.
So I've had some spiritual experiences,
but I don't go therefore X, Y, Z,
because other religions could do the same thing.
You know, you suffer a Sai Baba of India,
raised four people from your dead body.
No, I didn't admit that, but yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, so anyway, back to your journey.
I'm trying to hurry it up for you.
It's just-
No, no, don't hurry it up, take your time,
because yeah, don't take your time.
Maybe we can, I'll just have a look at like
some of the things I put down.
So you, at this point, like at this point,
you've kind of-
You've kind of-
Well, basically, at this point,
they're trying to make me understand why I am the way I am
and what I'm gonna go into on my TikTok at some point,
because this is like a whole thing,
but what I was reading,
I emailed, I used to be gay therapist Valerie
and I was like, hey, I wanna see these five stages
of homosexuality again.
And I thought honestly, I was gonna laugh at them,
but, and I really thought that,
because I do like the concept of it,
you know, it's just silly to me,
but I started reading them
and I genuinely did not realize
how much I'd associated during a lot of that stuff.
I just remember sitting there like spaced out.
I don't, like when I say,
I don't remember a lot of my childhood,
like it wasn't not,
some of it was bad or anything,
I just don't remember,
because a lot of it was just so, you know,
closeted or whatever.
I just, or fake,
because even if it wasn't the gay stuff,
I was always scared of disappointing my parents
and things like that.
So I just was always like on my eggshells,
but basically, I don't know,
it's just very interesting
because when I was reading those five stages
of homosexuality, I just started weeping.
I sent it to one of my best friends who's also a lesbian
and we were just like, I was like, wow,
like this is why my mindset has been so like,
I'm glad I saw it honestly,
because I have been so,
even still brainwashed about some things
because I call it like hypnosis,
but it's not like, that's not what they did,
you know, necessarily,
but basically they make you think that,
like I genuinely have,
so trigger warning for some people out there, you know,
but like I genuinely believed for the longest time
and I had no recollection, no memory,
no anything of this,
but until people kept putting these ideas in my head
that since I was gay,
or having these gay struggles
that I was hurt or abused or like molested as a child
or maybe I just didn't remember it.
So I even done this thing called like sozo or something.
This is like a big thing.
I don't know if you've heard of that.
They do it like, I think even at Bethel,
which is a big church, I don't know if you've heard of that.
I know Bethel, yeah, I can't say Bethel.
They do sozo there,
but I don't know what type of version they do.
They do these branched off versions,
but this one isn't necessarily like,
this isn't like gay related,
this is just more so like they dig into your dreams.
Like I've done so many things that it's like,
has gone alongside this and separately,
like I won't tell them, but what's up?
So are you saying that,
yeah, so you're saying that you don't believe
you actually were like abused or had some trauma experience,
but you were-
Now I know, I want to say that I know that I was not,
but they put these ideas in my head so heavily,
like even like, well, my previous ex or my,
it's like a recent like breakup,
but she like even when like time we were just laying in bed
and I've never like experienced this,
but she was just like holding me
and I even literally it felt like a vision,
I don't know how to, not a vision,
but like a visual flashback of like somebody like touching me
and appropriately, I guess,
that's how to word it,
like doing something that wasn't not like it didn't happen.
And I can genuinely say that now
and confidence that it didn't, I think at least.
And if it did, I was so young,
like it wasn't something that I just associated
and like cut off
because I've literally been trying to dig into this,
but like they've put these ideas like they didn't,
and a lot of times they'll do it.
They won't be like, I didn't tell you that you were,
but they plant these seeds and ideas and ideas and ideas.
Like, are you sure?
Like was it like, you know,
or did I fail you as a parent because of this?
Or like just certain things.
And I was like, I don't know.
And so I don't know when like that became like,
and I don't know.
It's just been always in the back of my mind.
And that is like, it's,
I don't want to downplay people
who have actually been through that trauma
because that is like so severe.
It's so severe.
And no, this isn't in comparison.
I just know that it has affected me personally,
this whole separate thing of,
it's made me have these envisioned,
like things that are just not accurate.
I don't think they are,
or just things that I don't think I would have ever thought of.
And so yeah, to rationalize the fact that I'm sent like gay
because they think that you opened a door.
And since you opened a door, which my door was porn,
but they think that my door also could have been more so
because I think the next step or whatever,
if that's, I have to read the whole thing,
but it was like, it's like doing something physical
or something like that.
And yes, a lot of people in our, you know, community,
but there's also a lot of people
that haven't, have been abused in things, but I don't know.
Wait, so I've seen gay porn.
Does that mean that I'm in the first stage
of homosexuality?
I mean, I didn't like, I didn't like,
I didn't like touch whatsoever.
Yeah, it's just, it's wild.
Like I don't know, but like I genuinely believe that.
And that is one of the most like messed up things.
And like the fact that like,
I've come a long way with all of this,
but like the fact that not even that long ago,
I had a physical feeling of like flashback
that I've never had that happen before.
It shows how deeply rooted.
And even in that movie, Pray Away, I saw that they were like
saying that have you been, you know,
they try to basically manipulate your brain
and make you think that and like try to think of these.
And if you think about something enough,
you can like make these false like memories
or false thoughts and things like that.
Just like in the court system,
like they try to like say you can't like, you know,
persuade them like if you guided questions
or certain things to lead you to a certain thing,
like you're not supposed to do that.
That's exactly what was happening.
And so it was, that was definitely messed up.
I don't know, I'm rusty on this,
but I think that isn't there some sort of correlation
between being abused when you're younger
and having like a asexual,
there's definitely, yes.
Yeah, there definitely is.
And so, but it doesn't mean, you know, like I've, I know,
it's not always the case.
Yes.
And I know of some like, you know,
people like close, very close to me
that have had, have gone through that
and that I identify as bi now and they even told me,
they're like, yeah, I don't know.
Like if I wouldn't have before,
but they, you know, they have their whole like trauma
and healing they have to go through
with their whole process.
And so a lot of times, sometimes, you know,
everybody's different,
but a lot of the ones that I've talked to,
they'll be like, you know, I have to,
I have to like just come to terms with, you know,
well, like very hard for them to do,
but like they had to come to terms to, well now,
this is what it is now, you know,
because if you dwell too much on what it was I before,
you know, so even then,
that's kind of how I had to go about it.
I literally, like even sort of the state,
it's hard for me to say, no, I was not definitely
because I just, I don't know,
like if I was a baby or something like that, I don't know.
And so it's one of those things like you just,
I think I've just had to come to terms with like,
you know what, regardless, I am a lesbian now.
And so, but there's definitely a correlation.
Like there's been so many who that have just been,
like that's sad that how bad of an issue that is,
that it definitely I think puts thoughts in people's heads
that they probably wouldn't have had before,
but either way, I mean,
people get to their own conclusion about things
and their own path, you know,
sadly how they have to go sometimes.
It just sucks how things get tainted along the way,
but like, hopefully everybody finds who they want to love,
you know, regardless, but it's just sad.
Exactly, exactly.
It is sad, but we kind of,
we both must have a little bit of ADD or something
because we jump around like crazy.
And so I'm enjoying this.
I don't know how much the audience
will enjoy jumping around, but this is great for me.
But you actually mentioned at the start,
you were quite asexual, I guess.
Yes.
At the start of your life when you were a baby.
Yes.
But growing up, but now I get the vibe
that you're definitely not asexual,
that you definitely love.
No, yeah, no, I am definitely not.
Once I started to, you know,
obviously get into that,
like it took me a long time to just like be comfortable enough
and like, cause I said every once in a while,
I'll still kiss a girl, even kiss.
And a random thought will trigger in my head,
but you just have to like, you know,
like shut the fuck up basically.
But after I started like, you know,
like having sex with, you know,
women that I actually enjoyed and like liked
and like not just for like physical,
cause a lot of women are,
I will say it's different for guys.
I feel like a lot of times, but not every guy.
A lot of women as a whole, and this is a stereotype,
but you know, and some people aren't like this,
but like are very emotionally,
like they have to have that emotional connection.
So I didn't know I was,
but once I've had the first emotional connection
with a woman and sexual,
that's when my whole, you know, eyes opened, I feel like.
And then I was like, yep, I'm not going back.
Like, fuck that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it must, it must be so freeing.
Like, I remember watching one of your TikToks
and I was like, what is she?
You're looking at, you had this like contraption
and for the half of the video,
I had no idea what the trick was.
Yeah, well, first one got taken down,
but that one didn't, so I was like, oh, whatever.
It was like, you were doing like essentially,
yeah, like a review of like.
But I saw it online, some people are like,
well, you can have the Christians views
or whoever's views, they'll be like, well, you just,
you know, you went stage five gay, basically,
is what I was like, caught now, but in actuality,
you're in hell, but you're like, you know, reaching up.
Yeah, if you've got toys that plug into the wall,
that's stage six.
Exactly.
So, but no, but basically I was like,
it's more so, and I've heard everyone describe it like this
because at first I felt like, you know, I was like,
oh my gosh, I'm just like hypersexual now,
like that, you know, the center that, you know,
took a turn and it's just going downhill.
And I was like, no, actually we've been closeted
our whole lives or we've been told it's wrong.
And then once you realize and come to the freeing realization
that yeah, be safe with like what you do and like, you know,
whatever, but I personally, I'm like,
I'm gonna do what I wanna do.
And like, you know, I have been
in a two year relationship this past, you know, two years,
but like over that time, like before that,
I've just, I've been having, like I've had my fun.
I've had, like I've been, I've had some like couple
of relationships, but I, and that is the funniest part though.
That's when my mom, because my mom came back,
there were a couple of things and she was like, you know,
she kept trying to say, I can't stand when people are like,
girl, you lied.
And I told you, I said that before, I was like,
okay, you know what, you keep bringing it up.
So apparently you do want to know.
And this is when I got a little sassy
because this is my personality at two, if you push me,
I'm Pisces, like I said, but if you push me,
I will get to that point.
And I was like, if you want to know everything,
and I listed out every sexual thing I've ever done
with a woman.
That is so good.
I was like, I was like, you can take that to God.
So I was like, you wanted to know, I told you,
and I thought that the woman was going to have a heart attack.
RIP.
Is this when she said, girl, Jesus shouldn't mix?
Yes, that was one of the last things,
girls, Jesus shouldn't mix.
And that made me want to throw up a little bit.
Every time I drink juice,
I think girls, Jesus shouldn't mix, Haley.
Like, it's like the worst way to work.
I was like, God couldn't change me, but like, turn me.
But if anything could saying girls,
Jesus shouldn't mix, that might.
It's like when someone describes a cake as moist.
It's just like, I'm not having any.
Yeah, there's just a word, it's like, yeah.
Ah, golly, like, but yeah.
So that took a whole different turn.
And my parents know that now, so that's always lovely.
And not to mention, like, I've just gotten more,
like, comfortable with my body.
I used to wear turtlenecks, you can even see it in my past.
Like, I was so, like, I was modest.
And I did a nude photo shoot.
And when I say, I posted, like, obviously,
like the parts covered on Instagram,
but like my parents, they saw that people were sending it
to them, because that's how my small town was.
Sending it to them like crazy.
And so that was fun.
But I went out with a bang when I came out,
to say the least, literal bang.
And yeah, just didn't care.
That is awesome.
I remember actually seeing, like, you,
I think you showed some, like, photos from a,
like, a naked shoot or something in some of your TikToks.
And I was like, I went and, like, showed my wife.
And I was like, oh, my God, this is so cool.
Like, because, like, there's something so,
it's like, a lot of Christian friends do it.
Well, it's such a, it's such a,
you can see the freedom in it, right?
Like, I've got no, I've got no problem with, like,
you know, nude, you know.
It's just like art.
And that's what I told them, like, and even tattoos.
Like, I, when I say, I went a whole different route,
I definitely did.
Like, I have, I love his love tattoo.
I have two girls kissing something.
It's hard to see, because it's all, like, you know,
abstract, but I have two girls kissing right there.
We got it all.
So that's the love place.
That's so cool.
Yeah, because a lot of, a lot of my Christian friends
don't understand the whole pride thing.
I'm like, gay pride parades and stuff.
And I even got a compliment, and it was like,
it was, what did it say?
It was like, y'all aren't oppressed anymore.
I'm like.
Yeah.
It's not about that.
Like, even if, even if society was like,
even if it was like, absolutely no oppression from society.
Yeah.
Like the-
And even then, there still is.
I'm telling you, I'm telling you what the gays,
or the homosexuals, the gays feel.
But like, I can imagine that that battle within yourself
of like, am I gay, am I not gay, or maybe I'm gay.
Like, that whole, like, internal conflict
just comes back and forth.
And eventually, when you go,
you know what, I actually am gay.
It's such a freeing feeling that it makes sense.
The pride parades make sense.
You're celebrating who you are without any shame.
And that's beautiful.
It's, it's, it's, and I thought the same thing.
Cause I first say, even when I started like, you know,
and I'm still like learning a lot
and having to like be open minded to some things
cause I'm still not used to it.
I'm learning daily.
And that's why my bio is what it is on TikTok.
Like, like a little lesbo, like educating themselves daily
because I know I have had my, like just so many things
in life that I've just, like embarrassing,
almost looking back, you know?
But I just, I'm learning and I'm taking pride in what
my own journey and like the fact that I'm alive, honestly,
because I've been to the darkest places that, you know,
people can go to sometimes with still being alive.
And that's, that's a point.
I was going to say it till the end,
but I just, I want to say this real quick.
And this is very important to me
that so many people deal with suicidal thoughts.
I'm just going to say it.
And in this community, and I cannot stand.
And if there are any Christians watching,
like shout out to you for like,
cause I'm the ones that are probably watching,
I'm probably like not talking to you necessarily,
like because you're open enough to even listen to this,
but tell your friends, spread the word that like,
I can't stand and so many people can't stand
when people are like the people that take their lives
because of this, or even the struggle and think about it.
And like, it's just, it's awful.
It sucks.
Like it's terrible.
It's a terrible feeling.
They always try to blame our demons.
They try to blame, oh, they were just so troubled.
They try to write our death off pretty much,
or our struggles and pain.
When we would not have this pain,
the blood is on their hands.
Like I want to say that to the world
because people do not say it.
And that's one of the things like truthfully,
that kept me alive during one of the times
that it was a hard time.
I'm going to be completely honest with you
because I remember thinking, look,
one, I have my sister who like couldn't like, you know,
I love her to death, but two, it's like,
they think of any kind of like negative things against them.
If you call them out or whatever,
they're like, it's just persecution.
So they take it as a good thing.
All these negative things that I could say,
or whatever, they're like, this is what's,
we're doing God's will if we're getting persecuted.
And I'm like, no, we're calling you higher,
calling you out because y'all are responsible
for these people's deaths.
I would not have, my internal demons and struggles
or whatever, whenever I'm living my best gay life,
I'm not, I am happy.
And I'm feeling great.
But they always, they hate that word happy too
because they're like, well, happiness is temporary.
And I'm like, oh, you just can't win with them.
But like, at the same time.
Sin is very pleasurable.
Yeah.
Yes, exactly.
It's like, you can't argue with them.
Yeah.
But yeah, and, but I think people need to realize
that we are, we would be fine.
It's more so that, yeah, and there's some people
that wouldn't, you know, but like, for the most part,
everybody I've talked to and myself,
it's like, even if I would have done that,
I just remember thinking, look, yes, like a part,
I feel like my spirit, like my whatever,
I don't know what's happening after death and stuff,
but like, they would somehow just blame it on the devil
when in actuality, the devil of the situation is them.
And that's something I wanted to point across
because people wouldn't, there would be so many more lives
in the world, not just Christians,
but just people that persecute the homosexuals
because it's so hard.
It's such a burden and feeling of like
that you're a piece of shit basically
because you're existing and you're just trying
to love someone in a relationship that's consensual.
Like, it's hard, but that's something
I'm very passionate about and I wanted to make that clear.
Well, thank you.
It's really good that you shared that.
It's the other thing too about all this is, you know,
and about what people are saying it's demons,
like you were mentioning before,
I just, who gives the devil and the demons their power?
Exactly, like...
Like, how do you, like, what do you mean?
Like, it's so weird to me, because it's like...
It's just like, it's like...
God is behind everything.
Yeah, so I don't know.
Well, they're all the end, they'll be like,
if you're like, they're like, the gays are so angry
and so, well, you just seem angry.
Like, you can see, if you read my comment section,
you'll see that a lot.
They're, you're just so sad.
And I'm like, the only ones I'm sad and angry
about one, you're coming on, like,
we're not asking for your opinion.
Like, they'll be like, well, you just don't respect
our beliefs, you're doing the same thing.
And I said, no one should have a...
It's not about opinion or belief.
You can have your beliefs about, you know, global war,
like, just whatever you want.
Like, but when it comes to my personal, like, you know,
things, like, no one should have a right, you know,
or an opinion over who I love, you know,
like, that's just absolutely, that's not a,
like, you can have your belief, like, for you.
Like, let's say that you were against, you know, whatever,
you don't have to go hook up with a man, you know?
Like, I'm not saying like, okay, well, you agree,
you don't agree with me.
So like, you know, screw you, like,
go hook up with a man, blah, blah, blah.
Like, I'm not saying that.
Like, the only people that are doing that,
it's just, it's just very wild to me.
They're bizarre rationale, I guess, all of it.
I know, it's so sad.
I, you know, if when, when I have children,
I would still love them if they were straight.
Like, if they were straight, I'd still,
like, I would finally my heart to accept them.
Think of that.
I will love you either way.
Song that, God, that is wild.
I did want to touch on a few other things quickly.
Well, not quickly, I guess.
These are all great talking points,
but I wanted to talk about your internal homophobia.
We discussed this a little bit over email.
Can you talk a little bit about that?
So like I said a little bit, like,
even sometimes still like, like kissing a girl
or even like, you know, after even hooking up sometimes,
like I've made it, I've like talked to my, you know,
partners about it in the past.
Like, sometimes I still feel like almost gross.
And I know that even straight people can
when it's like premarital sex,
like certain things like, you know, that you do,
you still feel like kind of whatever about,
but like sometimes I'll still catch myself
and I'm like, one, I think it's not necessarily
internal homophobia, but I'll be like, man,
my life would be just so much easier
if I was not, you know, gay or even like whatever it is.
But like sometimes I just get so like,
randomly grossed out by just something.
Like it makes no, and a lot of times
it goes back to the gay therapy, I think,
but like just in what you're taught in church
and stuff like that, it's so sad how many people
have to deal with the internal homophobia and like,
or even like, like for example, and I'm going to be honest
and I have a lot of like trans, you know,
friends that I'm now like, I used to be even like,
just like I was homophobic.
I used to be like transphobic
because I didn't know anything about it.
And so I, you know, that one took a long time,
a little bit longer because I, since I'm not, you know,
trans, like I had to like, I didn't fully empathize,
but that's where I asked questions and learned.
And there's just so many things on both of those.
Like I feel like it's just a matter of getting to the bottom
of where those are coming from.
And then kind of like what you were saying
with your other thing, you're just like,
you say something out loud and you're just like,
you say it so many times, you're just like,
sounds so silly almost like, why am I thinking these things?
And you just have to like kind of come to an understanding,
but it's wild how many people have influenced
the internalized homophobia that we have, you know,
nowadays, it's sad.
It's, yeah, the, I just, I should have mentioned this
before too, but that therapy that I was doing,
that was very specific.
I don't think you can, I don't think in every situation,
you can just say what your fear is out there and stuff.
No, no, absolutely.
I'm scared of heart, yeah.
But it was because of the way.
But even with like that, like after I just,
like if I hooked up with a girl and I'm like,
I just have to like, you know what I'm saying?
Like sometimes for me, everybody's is different,
but like sometimes I just have to like tell myself like, what?
Do you ever, so I'll tell you a bit about my story.
I sometime, I've experienced the same thing
where I've just gotten disgusted at sex for some random reason.
And, yeah, so Purity Culture really fucked me up,
really bad.
And I've written a scathing review of,
on Goodreads for that book, Every Young Man's Battle.
But essentially, like when Amy and I first got married,
one out of 10 times we were,
we waited till we were married to have sex.
We did, we fooled around a little bit beforehand,
but we were pretty good Christians.
And we didn't have like penis and vagina sex until we were married.
And, I always say everything but sex.
Oh, but sex, yeah.
And I'm, and I'm confident that I love but sex.
But, so one of the, sorry, I can't, I just said that.
That'll throw you off.
Yeah, so one out of 10 times that we would have sex
when we first got married, I wouldn't be anxious.
Either beforehand or afterwards.
I wouldn't have like anxiety.
And sometimes the anxiety was so bad
that I wouldn't want to have sex anyway.
And this caused so much conflict.
Now it's a lot better.
But, man, for the longest time,
I still felt horrible shame and feelings around,
like sex with my wife, that we waited till we were married.
Like it's, it has nothing to do.
The mindset of even having sex whenever,
cause that's the last thing you want to be thinking about
when you're being intimate,
like when you're intimate with someone because,
I mean, like how are you,
and they, and they can pick up on your body language
if it's not, if you're not into that
or it's not that you're not into,
but you're thinking your mind is elsewhere,
even if it's not intentional.
Like we'll be like, it'd be like something like,
we'll be, maybe you can experience,
maybe you can relate, but we'll be like spooning.
And then I'll be like, I'll jump into the spoon,
like totally keen like to spoon,
not nothing really more, I'm not thinking about that yet.
And then all of a sudden I'll be like, wait,
what if she wants to like,
what if she goes like a hand start moving or something?
And then I'm like, uh-oh.
I'm like, and then I'm like, what if that happens?
What if it doesn't happen?
And then all of a sudden I'm gonna panic.
And it's like, this is so stupid.
Like, you know, do I like sex?
Yes.
Do I want to have sex?
Yes.
Like why am I panicking about this?
This is so, so weird.
But now, now it's the opposite.
Now it's like one out of 10 times,
like maybe a little bit of anxiety, but.
Yeah.
But it's wild how we can still be so woke, you know,
like we've come a long way,
but it's still every once in a while.
Cause I'm like, I've like,
I've had my sexual, you know,
experiences at this point where I didn't,
the first, you know, the beginning,
obviously like you're going to, you know,
since that's like your background,
you're going to be terrified in some ways
and like have all these, you know,
shame thoughts and stuff like that.
But like you don't expect, I guess you think like,
well, maybe down the road,
you don't expect to have them still, I guess.
Like, but every once in a while,
it just like hits you kind of like a train almost sometimes
or sometimes like subtle even,
but it's just wild to me, you know?
You're like, when I get the tattoo
of the two girls kissing on my arm,
I'll be fine.
And then, and then you're like,
cause there's no going back then,
but then all like for me was like,
when I'm married,
even the guy that gave me the love is love tattoo,
he was homophobic.
I was in South Georgia and he,
that was something random, but yeah.
This, this one, yeah, he, I got that one.
And I was like, maybe that'll, you know, push that away,
but I don't know.
It's just interesting.
Oh geez.
It doesn't, it's still there.
Yeah, it's, the human mind is an amazing thing.
And it's important to remember that sometimes life's crazy
and sometimes you have horrible feelings,
but try and enjoy it while it lasts
because it's probably the only thing we've got.
That's my taken life.
I actually wanted to, because you said that,
I got a question that I'm going to take from the Q and A,
but I'll chuck it in now.
What do you think starts homophobia?
Like what do you think,
what do you think people are homophobic?
One, sometimes it's like their internal stuff
that they're battling.
That's not always, but like that is a lot of times,
you know, sometimes that, that could be it or,
or either sometimes it has to do with their trauma
that they've experienced in their, you know,
projecting it onto other people.
Cause, you know, that's always a thing,
but I think it's more so like the part
that never really fully makes sense to me.
That's why a lot of times I'm always like,
what are you like hiding or there's more to it?
Because everybody's different, you know?
It's just like, why are they so focused
on this specific sin?
People are drunkards all the time.
Like, you know, or they have these other habitual sins.
Like that's just wild to me that, you know, yeah.
Like they, you know, it's just, it's just wild.
That's the one that they focus on.
They're so focused on who we're having sex with.
And like that's the one that's going to send us to hell,
but they don't seem to like care
if we're doing the other things like that.
Sometimes it doesn't make sense to me at all.
But then other times I'm just like, I really,
like knowing my parents,
I know that a lot of people are like this
and they're so, the word she always used
makes me literally want to throw up.
She was like, I'm so worried about your salvation.
And like we talked about at the beginning,
I know they're like the intent, you know, whatever,
but at the end of the day,
they're focused on the wrong things, I think.
And that's not what I believe.
If that, if that God is the God, you know, whatever,
I don't think he's helped like focus on that.
But I think they're just focused on the wrong things
and they're focused on salvation instead of like
turning me to God.
They're probably pushing me farther away than they ever could.
So it's just very wild.
You know, I think that's where a lot of fear,
fear is the root of a lot of homophobia.
And someone says that to you.
I'm so, I'm so scared for your salvation.
You should just reply.
I'm so, I'm so concerned for your critical thinking skills.
Exactly, I do.
And I'm also like, okay,
take the plank out of your, you know,
eye when my splinter over here is like, you know,
they have this God complex.
Pet peeves of religion.
What are your pet peeves?
Definitely the lifestyle one, like I said,
but there's just those like, you know, trigger words.
And I hate some of the like the word trigger,
like I've said in some of my posts
because people do overuse them like they'll act
like it's a quirk or something.
But I think it's more so down point,
like pet peeves, like when it comes to homosexuality is
one, just not listening to someone.
Like I do not care.
Like if I had ended up talking to you after this
and you're like, even you still like,
if you had a thought like it was a sin or something,
at least you've listened to me.
And I think the other thing-
Sorry, hang on.
What was that?
You're like, nevermind.
Fuck you.
I drifted off for a second.
But no, like, you know, it's just that,
like that kind of thing is like, like, or more so just
and sometimes people will try to, I guess, downplay.
I don't like necessarily,
cause I don't like to sound like the victim
cause I'm always so scared of it.
But more so like, I think it's important
that we all look at like Stonewall,
like even the Orlando, Florida, like the,
I don't know if you heard about that, like the-
The shooting?
Yeah.
Just a lot of the things that have happened
and not that long ago and like there are,
I think it's important to respect people's stories
and just like the oppression that's still going on, you know?
And it's just wild to me that like,
I've made a tech talk about some of them, like,
and some people commented a lot of like wild ones too,
you know, like we all have just the same things,
like just Adam and Steve, you know, whatever.
The jokes that people make, like some of them,
I'm just like, y'all don't realize like how
y'all might think it's like so small,
but that one little comment
could make someone hurt themselves.
Yeah.
And that might put someone over the edge.
People stop looking at the person,
they look at the sin and they're like, love the sinner.
That's when I hate, love the sinner, not the,
whatever it is, I don't even know how it goes,
but like hate the sin, but not the sinner, love them,
but whatever it is, I just can't stand that
because I don't want my sin, my love
to being compared to a sin.
Like that's just super annoying.
Like even if you don't agree with it,
like I just, I don't want that.
I can't stand that because I still value my older value.
Like I still respect my old beliefs,
even if I don't fully believe them
and I still believe some of them.
So I'm just like, I don't want,
I don't even know all the answers
and neither do y'all.
So like, what's the point of,
except for you, I was gonna say that.
I, it was actually, it was actually the,
I always say this, it was actually the,
the values that were taught to me in church
that actually had me reject Christianity
because I was taught that truth
was always the most important thing.
And I realized that for me to be truthful
and honest, intellectually honest,
I had to investigate the, investigate it without a bias.
I had to remove as much bias as possible.
So yeah, it was, it's interesting that
it was the values that were taught to me in church
that led me to reject church or Christianity.
Yeah. And I think the biggest value that like,
one, I just thought I'm gonna be quick
was like the unconditional love.
I, that is a huge thing for me.
And I feel like no one can ever fully be
unconditionally loving someone.
Like, there's always gonna be some, you know, something.
But I've always cared about that so much.
And anybody that like is close friends to me
will tell you that I am super intentional.
I think because of my, how they never did it with me.
I would never want someone to feel like that.
So I value that.
And my parents definitely don't know that about me.
That's why I'm always like, God, they don't know me at all.
But like, I just can't stand when I see so many people
that are spewing all this crap out
when their love is so conditional.
And I'm like, so many people in my community,
like are loving people, like no matter like where they are,
they could be like, you know, whatever it is.
And they're like, they say love is love.
My mom hates that phrase, you know?
But I'm like, God is love, love is love.
It should be that simple.
And people complicate it so much.
And they're like, you know, it is what it is,
but I can't stand that.
You should tell your mom about that Deborah Grace
in her book, she talks about crucifying the Bible.
She talks about how there's a pretty well substantiated,
but kind of fringe perspective that King David
was a bisexual and that he had a bisexual lover.
It's all true.
Yeah, yeah, it's an interesting perspective.
But I do have a question.
I have a question though, like,
did you always have these pet peeves
or was it just when you chose the gay lifestyle?
Sorry, I'm just kidding.
That was just, I'm just kidding.
No, first of all, I'm never ready.
I'm always like, oh, yeah.
It was when I chose that.
I'm a drunk Australian, okay?
Once you go to the vagine, you don't go back.
That's what I always say.
And not to mention, I ran away from the one dick
that I saw, so I was like, ah.
Yeah, well, it wasn't pierced enough, so that makes sense.
Who does that though?
That's so gross, like, who gets dick piercings?
Not to shame anyone who has dick piercings.
No, no, I just wasn't ready.
Someone just showed me and I wasn't ready
just to even see anything, so I was not expecting.
I didn't even know really what it fully looked like,
and then I was like, oh, no, like what?
I wasn't ready.
Well, you didn't know what dicks fully look like
or you didn't know what?
Not fully, like I've seen it in the porn
that I saw when I was young,
but I didn't really know what it looked like.
And the one time I touched it and ran, it was dark,
so I was like, I literally, it was.
Was it literally, did you actually touch the dick?
Or did you grab it?
Well, technically there's two,
and both of them are friends with me now,
but one was like, literally a touch.
And then, because I tried right after it,
I was like, maybe I just wasn't comfortable with that one.
And both times I ran,
and the worst part was the second time
it was my neighbor and love him to death.
He's one of my best friends now.
And he's even commenced on one of them,
but he, I had to go back because I left my phone.
I ran that quick, I left my phone,
and I think I had my laundry or something at us.
I have no idea.
I had to go back and I was like, please be in your room,
because this was like a common area.
And I was like, I have to have it for my alarm.
So I ran back in, and he was just standing there,
and I just wanted to jump off the balcony at that point.
I was like, nope, this is it.
I'm sorry.
Things gay people do,
because they don't want situations.
Yeah, yeah, that's so funny.
I always think about that,
like what if I was actually gay
and I was trying to prove that I was straight?
I don't know.
What if it's like the other way around,
and I was trying to get into dicks,
and I was like, and I was like trying to touch dicks,
and I was like, oh, I can't do this.
I like the job.
Literally, like it was like,
and then the one time I even made my,
like I posted about this one today,
like my old roommate, I was like,
you've got to call me and like come up
with some bullshit story to get me out of this situation.
I'm scared he's going to try,
and I was on just on a date,
and I was like, I got to go.
I was like, I could have just left,
but of course I was,
I just couldn't put myself in the situation.
I don't even know.
I'm so stupid looking back, but here we are.
How is your relationship with your family now?
Obviously.
So, no, and just to be brief,
I basically had to, I almost started letting my mom in again,
like kind of, she came into my graduation
even though I had a girlfriend at the time,
and I thought that she was going to be like,
you know, the one, you know, and everything,
and I basically told my mom, I was like,
look, I'm, because I miss my mom all the time.
My dad, I've very much so detached from
because he's just complete and utter jackass,
and I'm just going to say, I don't care, to be honest.
You can see his posts on, you know, line,
and it's, the stuff he posts is absolutely heinous,
truthfully, like it's bad.
And so that's, it makes it easy to detach
from someone when they're like that.
And I would say that, I say that pretty much,
I'm very vocal about it online,
but I still love him as much as I can.
I still like, it's hard to say that,
but I do love my mom, that's the hardest part,
but I started letting her back in,
and I was like, look, you can come to my graduation,
but basically you can't say anything about her or whatever.
She didn't want to go to dinner with all of us,
like me and her, like she wouldn't do that.
So I did something separate with her,
which still sucks, but I don't know.
I was glad to see her, but like,
it was just the strangest encounter,
and not to mention COVID.
So we had to like be in these closed areas to get,
it was just awkward.
But then after that, I started letting her in more,
and I had to cut her off recently again,
because I basically gave her the ultimate on this time,
because I've only been the one to ever compromise.
I tried to get, I even thought,
I even made myself after they were,
after I even was financially cut off,
I still was trying, and all these other things,
I was trying to still go,
because I wanted these demons to go away,
because I really wanted to keep my family.
I did so many things to compromise,
and basically they never tried anything.
And so I was like, look, mom, I'm giving,
I'm just telling you this, I love you,
and I even started talking to my dad a little bit more,
and then I was like,
but if y'all can't show up to my future wedding,
whenever that is, I can't,
you don't have to agree with anything,
you don't have to pay like support,
you don't have to do anything.
But if you can't just show up,
you did your job as a parent, like blah, blah, blah,
like I did the whole, I wrote a,
I literally have it on my phone, I wrote a speech,
and I basically just recited it,
because I didn't want to get off,
because I know I can be emotional,
I know I can be 80, you know, 80D and stuff.
And I just said, hey, look, one,
I just need you to be able to say all of this,
and I will give you time to completely speak tomorrow,
and I will not speak,
but I just, it was so hard for me to get that out.
And I was like, but I can't have a full conversation
about it tonight as well,
basically what I told her,
but she ended up cutting me off, not respecting that.
And yeah, and so I like, I cussed her out,
like, and I've never really done,
I think I just got all my anger just blew up
after she cut me off,
because I just asked, I've literally,
I've never asked them for anything.
I've been very self-sufficient and things like that,
and she couldn't do that one simple task.
And if she can't show up,
if they can't show up to my wedding,
then I don't want it.
And the rest of my family,
I never really even got to come out too,
because basically it's a one or all or nothing thing.
And I did, like a part of me did disrespect
about the rest of my family in a sense,
because in their mind,
and I see how they think of it,
I understand how I saw it as a child too,
but they basically were,
they were all great to me growing up,
like my grandparents and my aunt and uncle,
that I was super close to the ones, you know,
we have a small family,
but I just kind of fell off face the earth for a while,
because I was really mentally going through it.
And then after that, it was such an awkward,
I never really got to come out with my parents
and everybody told them.
And I tried like reaching out to my grandma,
like not that long ago.
And she was just basically like,
if you're not only good terms with your parents,
we're not doing it, you know?
So it was like all or nothing thing like I knew it would be,
but I wish I could have come out to them.
I didn't really,
how things all happened, it happened so fast.
And it was just a whole mess,
but basically I've had to come off twice,
but the point before I'm not going to go into,
whatever, I just had to,
I had to come off the first time because of this conference
thing that they sent me to,
but the second time was because of the wedding thing.
So yeah.
I'm sorry, this is so much.
No, none of it, I'm just,
none of this is your fault.
Like, you know that, right?
It's, I don't know.
It's a lot, you know?
Like it sucks being like the black sheep,
is that what the term is?
Or the, is that what it is?
Of the family.
Yeah, I'm on the black sheep as well.
Yeah, like it is that.
I was.
Well, and I know it takes a toll on my sister.
And I think that's kind of where it hurts
because she, my mom's not very mentally like put together
at all, like she's very not,
she needs like actual, you know,
like help rather than like just prayers.
Like I do, like truthfully, that's what I did.
You know, and we all have mental health issues
and probably things that need to be diagnosed sometimes.
And some of times people don't do that if they're spiritual
because they think that, you know,
they can be healed and stuff.
So I really wish that she would go seek
that some help out, but I just know
that this taking a toll on my sister
and cause my mom, she's basically,
I'd be my therapist at some points.
And I always feel that like I hate that
cause she moved up, she, my sister moved up here
to be with me and stuff,
but she's also had to be that for my mom.
So I've kind of put, I don't put her
in the middle of it anymore.
And I'm going to therapy and things like that, but.
That's awesome to hear that you're going to therapy.
Yeah.
It's hard to find a therapist though
that understands a lot of this demonic stuff there.
No, it is.
And it's important to find a good therapist.
Yeah.
So I'm still kind of looking.
One of my favorite TikToks of yours was actually the one
with your sister when you were throwing
your pens into the jar.
I mean, just hearing you guys.
We roast each other so hard.
Yeah.
And it's just like it really,
like that was another one I ran up to my wife
and it's like, look at this.
I don't think she's as excited as I was
because she doesn't like know your full story.
She's like, but yeah, it was just so nice.
It was so nice to see you guys like, you know,
you guys really obviously love each other
and you can tell all that because you give each other shit.
And that's a big sign of love in my books.
So that was awesome to see.
She seems like a really cool person.
She is.
Yeah.
But yeah, it just all sucks.
You know, you don't want to be in the situation
because it seems so stupid if you put yourself out of it.
If you like look outside in.
Like, why is this the one thing?
Do you know what I love about you, Hailey,
is you are in a bit of a shitty situation
with your family and everything
that you've gone through and stuff,
but you're really, truly making the best of it.
At least publicly in regards to like your,
you've got a great message.
You're showing people that it's okay to be yourself.
You're funny as fuck.
You're quirky.
Thank you.
You're quirky.
Yeah.
You're quirky as fuck as well.
Drama brings some humor, I will say.
Yeah, yeah.
Hopefully at least it brings something.
I think that what you're doing is awesome.
And I think that the people aren't, you know,
most people that watch your TikToks
might have a bit of a laugh or and get like,
just a brief understanding of what it's like
to go through that, but there will be some genuine people
that will listen to this interview
and watch your TikTok and really resonate with it.
And it might actually change the path of their lives
and it might help them because although, you know,
you may not feel like you've got it all together,
you're definitely a shining light for a lot of people.
And that's, I don't, I mean, like I said to you
and when I first emailed you, I don't,
like the people I normally bring onto this podcast
are either like authors or a philosopher or whatever
or someone of a special religious faith.
But with you, there was something about you
that I was like, okay, this girl's got a really good message
and she seems like a great person.
And yeah.
I'm glad, I'm glad you saw that.
Like, I mean, I'm glad that you saw like that
through the story, you know, in the sense
because I have been like, even like not that long
and not like in the darkest places like I was,
but like it's like Christmas.
Like for example, it's super hard.
Like there's certain times like it's ever since Christmas,
I've been not at a low, low, but like it's been hard.
Like this past one has been the hardest.
But I, and I have things for the future
that I'm gonna be coming up with that I'm,
I've kind of in these dark times come up with
because I've just seen the need.
And I spent like, I know at least in America,
like I've seen the need for certain things
and like certain safe places and things like that
that it's just not there.
And like gay bars and a lot of things
have been taken over almost by like,
I'm really happy to have allies and things like that.
But a lot of times like people think it's like cute quirky
and stuff like that.
And to go out to gay bars, you can even go to a gay bar
and like ask someone out.
Like, and they almost, or they're like,
they like almost give you a look like I'm straight.
Like it's just like not like a comfortable environment
sometimes.
So I just have a lot of ideas and I'm going into psychology
and I go into clinical mental health counseling,
which this is why, but I'm gonna kind of combine
a good bit of things.
Cause I, you know, that's just my passion.
So I hope that one day that there is a lie
at the end of the tunnel and kind of like my mom said,
but twisted like, I do have a, you know,
I'm gonna claim it like, you know, everyone does.
And I hope everyone claims it's not being prideful
or boastful.
I just, I think that everyone has a, you know,
a, I don't know, a calling.
You can call it like they said.
And I'm going to take back that word
and not just use it as like, I never liked Christian music.
I liked some of it.
Don't get me wrong.
There's some of that I really vibe with still,
but that was not for me to sing.
Like I didn't enjoy singing it.
Like all the time.
Some people would just flow so naturally for them.
It just never did for me.
And so I just have, I'm taking back that calling
because I feel like they made me almost go
into a specific route with it and trying to take it
and help my community that they've hurt
and they have the blood on their hands.
That's all I'm saying.
Like, you know, so, and I don't want to say that
to condemn them, but I think that I think,
I think they need a healthy conviction.
And I think they think that they're giving us that
by saying all these shameful things.
And like, there are some things that like,
I'm not fully healed with and I will call my dad out.
Like, I'll be, you know, I'll say these things,
but at the end of the day, like there's more love
in my heart and I hope they get out of their mindset.
I do have a will, I will say to the audience,
be careful about saying, oh, well,
maybe they'll come around or hope they come around.
And I know people mean well when they say that.
This is a random one that I was gonna just briefly say
that I don't think people realize
when people say that to me,
it sends me almost in like a little emotional spiral
because it makes me feel misunderstood
because if you knew how deep into my stuff my parents are,
they're not going to.
Like, I don't like speaking things
because I speak blessings and curses.
I say that, you know, I'm still like mindset brainwashed
with some of it, but I just don't think they will ever.
And that just breaks my heart.
And so just be careful about,
it makes me wanna cry,
but like be careful about what you say to people, you know,
because it's hard.
You don't know, like just because a lot of people's parents
do come through and like they learn from their mistakes
and they, you know, or they'll be at least more open
or show up to their wedding even if they don't agree,
but a lot of them won't.
So I just think people as a whole like to look at hope
and they like to hold on to hope.
I think that's the reason for a lot of people believing in God,
but I think that sometimes you just have to look at healing
in a different way and just be like, look, I am who I am
and I'm going to be independent and go from there, you know,
but that's my spiel on that, but yeah.
We ended with crying.
That was our goal.
I was not even expecting that.
I was just like, I get super passionate about it
because I genuinely care
and there's been too many lives lost.
So I'm totally on the same page with you there.
And that's why I think like your song speaks your heart.
What you just said there speaks your heart.
It's incredibly important and there's obviously a lot,
a long, long way to go in regards to healing in the community,
healing in your life.
And you know what, like whether or not whatever your family,
whatever your family looks like in the future
in regards to your blood family and in regards to your friends,
I hope that it's chosen family.
Yeah, that's a new concept.
That's something I'm definitely learning
and that's why I'm super grateful for TikTok
because I'm learning a lot and I've already connected
like with you, I've connected with certain people
that I'm really glad I've talked to, you know,
it's been great knowing that there's actually people out there,
you know.
We do have some questions and answers.
We do have some question and answers.
I'll just maybe end with a quick couple of questions
if that's okay.
For sure.
And this is from some people on Reddit and a friend.
I already asked the homophobia one.
And I'm gonna just pick some good ones
because I don't wanna...
How difficult was it to come to terms
with your family's rejection?
It's still sometimes hard,
but it was insanely hard
because I almost didn't see it as rejection.
It was a matter of identifying it even as rejection
instead of disrespect.
It's a matter of there's so many steps
to even get to the word rejection.
And now it's also, I wouldn't even say
that was the hardest part.
It's now dealing with the consequences from all of that.
And it's like the codependency issues I have.
I have severe codependency.
I would be very honest about my issues
because they always are like,
you're not self aware at all.
And I'm like, no, I am.
I have severe codependency.
You're too self aware.
Yeah, I know exactly.
But I have abandonment issues.
I have certain things now
that I never thought I would really deal with.
And I thought I would be stronger in sense of handling them.
I just never realized how severe
a lot of these things are rooted.
And I call it D-wire, Rewire,
but you can call it,
there's like a different word people use for it.
But it's like, I don't even say it,
not dismantling, but whatever it is.
Deconstruction or something of your, you know, old stuff.
But I've just been having to do all of that.
It's a whole thing.
It's more so not the rejection.
It's what comes after it.
Okay.
Fun stuff.
This isn't a question,
but someone on Reddit said,
if you have a girlfriend,
I hope you and her are doing okay.
So that's just a lovely little comment.
Not quite.
I love, I'm still madly in love with her.
We just, it was, she's working on herself.
I'm working on me.
So hopefully I hope in the future we'll get back to it,
but love her to death.
Yeah. That's a weird,
because that's a weird concept to me
because in heterosexual relationships,
we never have issues or problems.
It's always just smooth sailing.
And you go to heaven.
Yeah. And we get to go to heaven.
Yeah.
So there's that.
So we just like have a big old gay party
until we go to hell.
Yeah, exactly.
Man, the hell must be full of gays.
Oh yeah.
I shouldn't even joke about that
because some people, that's very traumatic to me.
Yeah, but I mean, that is the joke.
I mean, even little, what is it?
Lil Nas, his latest music video
when he rode the pole all the way down to hell,
it's, you should have seen it.
Oh, I love little, yeah.
I love it so much.
I've watched that and I'm like, this is so good.
Obviously everyone was like, oh my God,
like it was bad, but I like, they were freaking out.
But I was like, that is an accurate representation.
Like he literally made it so extreme
so you would understand how we feel.
Like that was wild.
Watch that video if you haven't.
Yes, he's not being that literal,
but like honestly, that's how literal people are to us, so.
Yeah, and he's saying that people have been telling him,
I watched an interview or something,
or a tweet or something, he said,
people have been telling him he's going to hell
his entire life, so he's embracing their
like bizarre concept of reality.
Exactly.
Are you and your sister getting bi-okay?
We're getting bi-okay.
Yeah, so she's fully like, you know,
supported in everything by like my family,
which I'm glad, like that's what I've never wanted her to like.
She has to do her own thing with them, you know,
and it's a whole separate thing.
It does impact me sometimes, but for the most part,
we are pretty good about separating things,
and I know she's going through her own thing.
She's spent through a lot in her life, a lot.
I wouldn't be alive without her, truly.
But then me, my breakup and Christmas,
it all happened all at once, and it was bad.
And so that, I didn't realize,
honestly, I didn't realize how many
could have been as serious as she's had until she, you know,
she was gone, so it's been a matter of fine,
because I had a fear of going to therapy
because of the therapy I wasn't.
Even though I was going to be a therapist, ironically,
like it's just all funny how it all works out.
That's why they say a lot of therapists
are the ones that are, you know,
I'm trying to really help myself before I even do all of that,
even though I have worked in the settings before,
but I'm doing okay.
This has been a very, very hard season for me,
and I'm still like every day is like a different,
you know, something, but it's more so because of the breakup,
because I have a bad tendency,
and I will say a lot of gay people have a bad tendency of,
and I didn't realize it until,
but like if you don't have a family,
you almost cling to not,
it's not only just like losing your best friend,
your relationship, but your, their family,
and the idea of family for a first time,
it's just a lot, because it's like Christmas didn't,
I would, it was just hard, it was hard.
The timing, if that all makes sense,
I know it's kind of vague, but like, you know.
No, I honestly, yeah, that makes,
I never really had that perspective, because it's like.
Yeah, and I really didn't either fully, but yeah.
I don't, like some of the things she said to me,
like yes, she could have said them in a better manner,
and you know, we've all done things like said things,
but I love her to death, and like something like,
and it sounds bad, but I don't mean it bad,
like saying like, it was almost like too much,
because she has a lot of that she's been through,
and I respect that, like she needs, you know,
to get her own help, and me too,
but basically it's just a lot, and it is almost too much,
but in my mind, I'm like, it's too much for me too,
but I chose to get a therapy right before we broke up,
and obviously the effects hadn't like, you know,
kicked in, because it was hard,
it was like, I just cut off my family, you know,
she hasn't had to cut off hers in that sense,
so she didn't fully get it, but it's been interesting,
because I had, I definitely had some fear of therapy,
and I held onto her family and idea of it so heavily,
unintentionally, and subconsciously that when it was gone,
it felt like I lost my family all over again,
and it made me feel like there's something wrong with me,
I'm like, and, oh, sorry, real quick,
but basically a lot of Christians make you feel,
and my parents made me feel like no gay people
are ever gonna be happy, and so it's really hard for me
to admit if I'm ever sad, or if I'm ever upset,
this is a very weird concept,
because I don't think a lot of people think about it,
but it's very, very hard for me to admit
that I'm in a hard season, because they blame my demons,
and it, like, basically everything,
like I said about, like, even death,
I can't even, like, feel my feelings almost,
because I feel like it's because of me being gay,
when in actuality, like, you could have the same
type of feelings, like, heterosexuals
could have certain feelings that are the same,
but it's hard for me, like, you know,
even the breakup feeling that's hard for me to process,
sometimes, because I'm like, oh, it's just because I'm gay,
like, my brainwash makes me, you know,
I don't know if any of that makes sense, but...
No, it does, and I'm glad you said brainwash,
because it is brainwashing.
You've been gaslit your entire life,
so a lot of people have been through religion.
And a lot of people that are gaslit date,
not saying that this person was,
but you have to be careful, because I've been,
I've put myself, like, I never thought I'd be that person,
but, like, when you've been mentally abused,
or physically, or whatever it is,
a lot of times you date that and go for that,
so it's been a matter of breaking patterns for me
that it's just been so, so much fun, you know,
because also religious trauma in itself,
they, people don't really talk about enough,
and it's like almost, it's just taboo sometimes,
or just like, okay, well, that's stupid,
like, there's people that are, you know, other issues, but...
Yeah.
It's all such deep stuff, you know, like, it's all...
It is.
It is.
It's hard to feel those feelings,
they're like, that's definitely the biggest thing,
because at the end of the day, I hate when I'm sad,
I hate when I'm angry almost, because I'm like,
and I really don't struggle with pride,
if anything, I struggle with worth a lot of times,
if it's opposite, but I will say I do have pride,
which it's like, hard to find the line of pride.
I'm so too self-aware to where I think about everything,
like, I'm like, what am I doing wrong?
What am I doing wrong all the time?
And I'm like, is this coming from a good place?
Like, even my love, is this conditional?
Is this, like, I'm so hard on myself,
and so many gay people are,
because they've been put as,
you're just playing the victim your whole life.
And I'm so tired of people telling me what I'm doing,
when in actuality, like, if they only knew,
like, you know, it's just very wild.
Yeah, and it's like, the other thing too is,
like, being gay,
and you have a small selection compared to, like...
Yeah, and I'm in the middle,
like, I'm in, like, the middle of the mountains,
and Georgia, and America,
they're literally, and I'm picky, like, I'm so picky.
Like, my type, I'm, they all pretty much,
I have, like, just a very specific type,
and I'm gonna be moving soon anyways, but, like, I, it's hard.
And just to be, and just to be clear,
I haven't swayed you at all in your type,
in, like, heterosexuality, homosexuality,
in this interview.
How old are your wife?
I'm sorry.
How old are your wife?
She's fine.
I'm gonna go call my mom real quick and be like,
it's healed.
Heal, yeah.
I just saw his glistening neck beard,
and I was like, man, that guy.
Two questions to end.
Oh, yeah, what I was quickly,
what I was saying, too, was,
you have such a small selection,
and then the people who you do select
out of that small selection,
generally, they've had horrible upbringings
in regards to, like, dealing with issues as well.
So, I don't, even, yeah, it's not a good, nice situation.
It's more set up for failure, almost.
That's why a lot of, like, if we do have relationships,
like, which heterosexual relationships
fail all the fricking time, but, like,
I will say that, like, it sucks,
because we've all been through so much trauma.
A lot of us, like, whether it be, like,
some people have it in this community,
but I will say, pretty much, nine out of 10,
sometimes 10 out of 10 of my friends,
like, depending on the selection,
it's, all of us have had some kind of it,
and it's really hard, like, even the thought of the people
that, like, even the people that think,
like, if you think that a gay person has it well
because their parents came around,
just think about that for a second,
like, coming around to it, like,
they rejected them at first.
They still had to, like, that still can resonate with you
and hold, like, stick into your being for years after that,
because you're like, well, they didn't accept me at first.
They actually, like, it's just very wild.
Like, even though you think have it well, nope.
And I've been even holding hands with my girlfriend
in Delanaga, or wherever, and, like, in Atlanta, even.
And Atlanta's, like, pretty, you know,
they're pretty open to a lot of things,
but, like, anywhere around here.
And basically, like, you can be doing anything,
and people can be staring at you,
and just being, like, judging you,
or being, like, ugh, like, saying something.
It's just, it's just wild.
I'm looking at where Georgia is, because I have no idea.
Oh, yes.
Okay.
It's like, it's near, yeah.
Good old Florida.
Because I was from South Georgia, which was, gosh, awful,
but I moved up here, because this was, like,
still in Georgia for, like, you know,
tuition purposes and things,
but it's honestly a lot like, you know, South Georgia,
just mountain town, because it's just, like,
still kind of the hillbillies and stuff, you know,
but it's near Atlanta.
I have an Australian friend who moved over to,
and married a girl in America,
and they're living in Alabama.
He said that the racism was hard to deal with at the start.
Yes, that's the other thing that's, it's very,
like, there's so many things that, it's rough.
I feel, and some of my, especially, like,
a lot of my gay friends that are in, like,
if there's, like, if one of them is white,
and then if the other one is, like, if they're black,
or if they're any, like, whatever the race may be,
they definitely have to deal with even more,
because one, it's the homosexuality,
then there's the, you know, the race,
and then there's the, there's so many things.
I just, it's so sad that they have to deal with that.
And also, like, this town has, like,
they still have, like, this KKK-type thing,
meeting-type thing.
Yeah, that's what my friend was saying, yeah.
That he, he said he's only half an hour away
from where the KKK started.
Yeah, they have the meeting in this town, even.
They have a lot of things like that.
It's really sad.
Not only is it sad, it's stupid.
Really stupid.
Luckily, the colleges have been better, though.
Yeah, I bet too.
Do you know why?
Because there's educated people there,
is what I would guess.
Sorry, I'm getting a bit triggered at racism.
Two last questions.
If you could give yourself advice back in time,
what would you say?
I think that I, the first place my mind went to is,
like, for my aunt and my uncle,
the ones that I don't like to talk to,
like, and I never got any to talk to,
and like, my grandparents,
I wish that, one, I wish I would have written in a journal.
And I will say for any of, like, the, you know, people that
have, like, you know, gay, you know,
any thoughts or any, any questioning or curiosity,
be careful about where you put your stuff.
It sucks to say, like, you know, hide it, you know,
but, because I don't want people to feel like
they're closeted and stuff, but just be careful.
Just be careful, because if that wouldn't have blown up
at the time, I wonder where things would be.
But, like, I don't like to think about, like,
things like that, but I'm telling for other people,
like, just be careful.
But, because things would have gone different.
But also with, like, my family,
I just really wish that I would have let them know,
like, yeah, I wish I would have gotten it to come out to them,
but without my, you know, there's some things
that were just out of my control,
but, like, I wish I would have let them know
how much I appreciate them and, like,
certain things I just would have done different,
because I feel like a lot of stuff
just got brushed into the rug
because I had to focus on the gay stuff coming out.
Like, there's just so much, and I was so young
that, like, I didn't know, like, I don't know.
I just wish they knew how much I appreciated,
like, how much they did for me growing up.
I know they think I'm just, like,
they just think I don't appreciate them.
I'm just a spoiled brat, like, it has nothing to do with it.
It's just I had so many internal things going on,
and I don't mean to excuse, like, you know, just cutting,
like, it felt like, to them, they think I cut them off,
but I knew that it was a package deal,
and then by the time I did, it was like, hey, look,
I just needed time.
It was, like, too, like, it would have been too late,
regardless, I just know my family.
But, yeah, there's some things with that,
but with other things, like, I don't know,
I just think it's more so just,
I feel like there's a pressure in the world
because I can't stand when people are like,
it being gay is a fad, or, like, you know,
people are saying it's like a good thing,
like, it's, like, that's why people are wanting to do it.
They're jumping on the train, you know, the gay train,
but it's the only thing I would say with that,
it's nothing to do with get that at all.
It's more so that social media makes it seem like
you have to come out right then and there.
Do it when it's safe, and do it when it's best for you,
and I think it's, yes, you might have to hold things back,
and yes, it's, you know, but seek out people online,
like, I have all, like, I'm not kidding.
Yes, it's hard to get to every comment,
but I will tell you, if you look at that post that I posted,
I have commented, I've taken the time
to try to respond to almost every single person,
and that's been hard, because there's been a lot,
but in any of my DMs on Instagram,
like, there's some people out there
that I've been trying so hard to respond
to pretty much everything I can.
Yeah, it's hard sometimes, but like,
there are people out there that haven't had, you know,
their TikTok, just like the one blow-up and stuff,
but like, you have to find, you know,
just try to reach out to people,
and you're gonna find someone,
because I remember the first person I talked to,
it was unbelievable how much weight
got lifted off my shoulders, and you're not alone,
and I hate when people say that to me sometimes,
because you're like, you don't understand,
like, I am alone by myself,
because I don't like being alone physically,
like, I'm a, you know, person, like,
I'm a touch person, I'm a whatever,
but it helps whenever you have someone
that like, literally, I will listen,
like, I like to hear people's stories,
and there's plenty of people out there,
like, even like you, like, you know, like,
even if they're not gay, like, it's good to have allies,
yes, it's, because I don't really have many
gay people around me right now, at all, like, physically,
but it's good to have allies.
No, everyone's a little gay.
Huh?
Everyone's a little gay, it's like my favorite.
No, exactly, just a little bit, you know?
Yeah.
But yeah, like, it's good to at least try
to like, find your allies, but be careful about everything.
You can usually tell some, just go for the blatantly obvious
one sometimes, if you're not sure, but,
and just know that your family does not have to be blood.
That's the thing that's in my song,
but I, on the bridge part of it,
that was just family doesn't have to be blood,
and that's the part that gets me,
because it can be chosen,
and I'm still trying to find my full chosen, you know,
family, but it's day by day,
and I don't plan to have it overnight, but yeah.
And your voice is so good in that song,
and you just, and you hit it so,
so much heart comes through.
I'm surprised it doesn't have more plays
on the Spotify, to be honest.
We're gonna change that.
Guys, check it out in the description,
check it out on the TikTok.
One day I'm gonna remake it,
because it wasn't the best production,
but we're getting there, we're getting there,
and I'm gonna probably do a music video to that one day,
whenever I do find my wife, that's my goal.
I'm gonna probably redo that and release the music video,
because I have a whole plan for it.
I can't wait to see you have a wife,
and I know we don't know each other very well,
but I do, like, yeah, I know.
It's been nice to get you to know you.
What advice, and this is the last question,
what advice would you give others,
who are maybe questioning their sexuality,
or their gender expression?
Okay, for one, the first thing that came to my mind was,
if you're questioning, be careful of your browser history,
your history, if your parents check that,
but like seriously though,
but also, more so, be safe.
If you're questioning things,
I like to do things like this personally,
and I know a lot of my friends wish
they would have done it if they didn't.
Don't always just jump to the physical,
it's very easy to do that for a lot of people,
because we're like, you know, touching it,
like that's just like a lot of people are,
but I'm glad that I waited,
but I didn't wait for the right reasons,
because I was so into religion,
but it kind of helped me in a sense,
I'm glad that I got my mental, you know,
in the right place of like,
this is what I want rather than just,
because if I would have had sex with a man, for example,
I like, no dissing on anyone that has at all,
but for me, I just,
I just know it would have impacted me, you know,
because I didn't want to have that sex with him.
So, and yeah, if you don't know,
like, you know, do what you wanna do,
like at the end of the day,
I'm not telling you to do that or not,
but I'm just saying,
try to think things like fully through
before you just jump into something physically
or put yourself in something
that you just don't wanna be in or whatever it is.
And then, because I know so many people,
and I think you've even said it to me, like,
or talking like,
I've not a lot of people that get into a marriage even,
and then they realize they're gay,
but like, figure things out like mentally,
I know it's hard to figure things out
if you don't know until you do things,
but like go on a lot of dates, like, I don't know,
I've just been trying,
I've been doing things with that even,
like there's an adventure book you can get and go,
like, be bold, I'm not,
I used to not be a bold person,
and I know it's very intimidating, especially like,
I feel like gay guys are,
sometimes they aren't,
but so many times they'll be so bold,
but I know a lot of girls like personally
that are super scared to like get a dating app,
like just start talking to people
and putting yourself out there more
and just trying, but be safe,
and be safe with sex even too,
because the gay community is so hidden,
they don't know a lot of things
and try to educate yourself first, you know?
It's important, yeah, like, I think that's actually-
Because they don't teach you in sex ed, you know?
Yeah, exactly, there's a, you know,
things like protection, STD tests are important,
if you're gonna be like having a lot
of different sexual partners,
but also like what you just said is really, really good,
is there's, in regards to like,
there's an emotional cost to, you know,
have sleeping with someone
or getting physical with someone,
and you just gotta make sure
that you're weighing everything up,
but at the same time, have fun, like, have fun.
Like, it's not all drama.
And there's no shame into it, if you've already done it,
like, yeah, like I wish I was gonna touch the dick
necessarily in Rand, but here we are,
like I'm just like, it's one of those things,
like we've all done things like, it doesn't matter,
like there's no shame in it, there's no, like, whatever,
it's just more so for your own safety
and just your mental health, like,
there's something you just don't wanna do,
just make sure you just try to know what you want,
but like, have fun, be safe.
That's like the biggest thing,
because I did, a lot of things I put myself wasn't fun
and it wasn't necessarily the safest situation at the time,
but looking back, I just wish I would have educated myself
more, you know?
Yeah, and if you need education
on like really good, powerful plug into the world sex toys,
check out the, hey, Lisa, TikTok video.
How long have you been doing this?
So good.
Well, thank you so much, Hailey,
for coming on to the podcast.
I'm pretty, I'm at a really happy drunk at the moment,
so it's been, this is delicious.
It's actually really good, right?
It's a good thing.
Yeah, I've been enjoying it thoroughly.
Yeah, I think I might bring it to-
Thank you for having me.
The thing, gathering tonight.
Yeah, no worries.
Sorry for keeping you so late, I'm just-
Absolutely not, I would keep going if I could.
I would keep going if I could.
But, and I, there's so much more I want to talk to you about,
and maybe we can talk more about it
when we roast Todd and Heidi Baker.
Todd White and Heidi Baker.
Or not roast, but at least critique their video.
Or whatever we do in the future.
Because we'll stay in contact.
But thank you so much for joining,
and all your links will be in the description.
Guys, please go and check out her song with some tissues,
or at least just listen to it.
It's always Hailey Brooke without the E.
People always forget that.
Brooke without the E.
It'll be linked in the description.
And when we finish this, I'll ask you,
which links you want and stuff.
And also, the TikTok, she's not only an amazing musician,
she's funny as fuck.
My DMs are open on Instagram,
I feel like I try to get to as many as I can.
I'm not saying I can get to everything,
but I try to, and I'll try to get to yours, I promise.
Well, Hailey, is there anything else
that you wanted to quickly mention,
or anything else you wanted to plug
before we stop the recording?
I think that's about everything.
I just definitely just say,
like if you have any religious trauma,
it's about everything you're feeling is valid,
even if it's not talked about.
And there is someone out there
that's been through something similar, if not the same.
I haven't met someone
that's been through the same exact thing with me.
But yeah, I still finally don't feel fully alone anymore,
which I never thought I would feel.
I still haven't found the therapist
that has been fully equipped to what I need,
but there's so many out there,
and I am keeping hope because I've found things
that I didn't think I would ever find before,
so I know that there's more out there.
So don't give up is what I'm saying.
So yeah.
And just because our failed relationship happens,
doesn't mean it's because you're gay.
Like that gets just that bad.
Exactly, exactly.
That's awesome.
Well, thank you so much, Hailey.
Thank you.
