...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
Welcome to Deep Drinks Podcast, where the drinks are deep and the conversations are deeper.
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
Jenna now co-owns Tang,
who stands for the Atheist Network Group,
which is best described as a group of skeptics
who met online.
They create videos and live stream
and have discussions and debates.
It's a great time over there.
On a personal note,
having Jenna on is very special to me personally.
Not only because her and her partner Oz
have become friends of mine,
but because back before we had 100 subscribers,
Jenna, Oz, and the rest of Tang
have been supporting this channel
and made me feel super welcome as a new content creator.
So with that, I'm super happy to welcome my friend,
Jenna, black female Atheist.
Welcome Jenna to Deep Drinks.
How are you feeling?
Nervous, for whatever reason,
just all the nerves,
all the recalling of thoughts and feelings
and everything that I've been experiencing
for the last, I don't know,
several months has been fast.
A fast, weird, scary roller coaster.
But I'm happy, I'm in a good place.
Yeah, but I often talk about my deconstructing experiences,
the most heartbreaking, but amazing part of my life.
And definitely, I definitely resonate
with what you're experiencing.
I don't think you need to be nervous though,
because you have more people in the chat cheering you on
than I've seen anyone on Deep Drinks before.
Dee's here, Doordnop Head's here, Maya's here,
Bitty Buddha's here, Michael Granado's here,
Cosmic Kiles here, so many people.
I just hope I didn't miss anyone, Aunt Kathy's here,
so many people here to cheering you on,
because you are super lovely,
you're a super lovely person.
And something that not many people know
is my wife never accepts anyone's friend request on Facebook.
She doesn't like people,
or unless she's met them like a 10 times.
And she, you guys became friends on Facebook,
because she likes you.
And I like Amy.
I know you just had your little baby boy Atlas,
and I secretly followed Amy as her progression
to pregnancy moved on all over the nine months
and everything, and I'm like, gosh,
I mean, and she's like, no body shame or anything,
like Amy looked gorgeous through and through.
I'm like, this woman, I'm like, if I ever have a child,
I hope I stay as same gorgeous as I was before I conceived.
You rocked it, Amy, by the way.
Oh, you love to hear that.
And you have a beautiful baby boy, yeah, beauty.
She, I think part of your story
and part of the way, like how you approach things,
I showed her some episodes of you on Tang.
Talking about your story really helped her
because she's quite similar in that
she's a bit of a people pleaser,
and she doesn't want people to be,
she doesn't want to cause anyone to be upset.
So she really resonated with you
because you, I think, are too kind a lot of the time.
And so, yeah.
I get that, yeah.
Well, Jenna, for those who don't know your story,
could you give us a bit of a rundown?
So we'll talk about essentially,
like you're coming out to your family,
but I wanted to first give the audience
just a little like a quick explanation of like,
what kind of Christian you were
and how you started deconstructing your faith.
Could you tell us about that?
Yeah, absolutely.
Oh, wait, actually, I screwed up.
I already screwed up.
I've already screwed up.
What are we drinking?
Oh, shit, right.
We are drinking.
Wow, failure already, no, it's kidding.
No, we are drinking.
I'm very excited to be here, by the way.
For the record, I had told David like months ago,
like you are going to be the person
to get the deep dive interview of everything
once I moved to Indiana.
I saved that for him, so.
But yes, we are drinking Sellerosa.
This is my favorite wine.
It's a dessert wine.
I'm a lightweight, so yeah,
it doesn't take much of this simple little,
not heavy on alcohol wine to get me, ooh.
So, you know.
Well, in a kangaroo land,
it's very hard to get different types of alcohol.
So we, especially from America,
so I went to the store last night
and an old man at the Bottle-O, we call him Bottle-O's,
helped me for about 15 minutes,
walking around trying to match the same wine,
and I was like looking at the pictures and stuff.
So I've got a slightly sweet,
slightly sparkling red wine as well,
so hopefully it's just as good as what you're drinking.
But what's everyone else drinking?
Tell us in the comments.
Doesn't have to be alcohol, anyway.
Okay, now we've done that part.
Cool, so tell us a little bit about your story.
Oh, let's see, how did I start, or did I start?
Well, first off, I was raised in Baptist Christian.
So I have an older sister, same thing.
She's like three years older than I am.
So Baptist Christian through and through started,
you know, early, actively in the church
as far as like, my thing was being in the choir.
So I liked singing.
I started being in the choir as young as maybe
five, six years old, up until like solidly every year,
up until maybe 17 or 18, and then some years in my 20s.
But I did a ton of stuff during the church,
like multimedia stuff, praise dancing,
everything but being an usher.
So I did a lot, just because I just liked hanging out
with people, I liked making friends.
Yeah, go for it.
You may see kids pass by, I have all these kids with me
while he's out in a gig.
So that's why you'll see little kiddos.
And don't be alarmed, they're not mine, obviously,
but, you know, they're cool.
I like it, I like it.
No, but yeah, I guess.
So in, I know that in America,
they like, you have like kind of black gospel churches.
Was it like a church like that?
Or was it?
Yeah.
Okay.
Cool.
Awesome.
I would say the first like early,
up until my early teens,
that it was more of the kind of old fashioned
black gospel church.
But then once that pastor kind of retired,
and we got a new one and became a bit more modernized,
I guess you could say, are a bit more contemporary.
So it was a different feel,
but still kind of like the old school kind of rules.
Old school rules meaning, you know,
no females on the pulpit, no women preachers,
very heavy women don't do this things.
Very much about, you know, preaching the nastier part.
Well, I won't say nasty.
I would say making mention of the really,
you know, devastating parts, like, you know,
things against gays, but, you know,
having that Christian love for them,
certain things like, I don't know,
saying, oh, we got COVID because God is shaming us
for allowing gays to get there.
All that.
Wow.
Yeah, yeah, okay.
I get the vibe, yeah.
So it's like the, yeah.
So everything is always,
everything is always our fault.
And God is just trying to protect us from ourselves,
essentially, but he has to send COVID and AIDS
and things like that.
Because we keep loving homosexuality and MTV and whatever.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
Definitely that.
Wow, okay.
So, and you're, so you're a Christian like majority of love,
how did you start deconstructing your faith?
I know you started learning about other religions
at one stage.
A sort, well, I not learning as far as just coming
to understand more.
I never took like a deep dive into like Islam
or any other faith.
It drove me to start reading the Bible more.
And like I do recall reading it
from cover to cover one full time.
And then like maybe bits and pieces,
like a quarter of it the second time.
So I have read it from cover to cover.
I would say I started kind of feeling questionable,
silently, when I was like maybe 13, 14 years old,
when I finally stopped falling asleep during sermons
and actually paid attention.
The only times I would not fall asleep
is if I was singing in the choir,
because other times it was fucking boring.
And once I started really listening
and what caught my attention,
I don't, don't remember the scripture or anything,
but I recall like what my pastor then was preaching
as far as like something showing,
and it's so funny, Titan, you put that in there,
showing that lovingness that Christian love
to rule out the devil of, you know, homosexuality
and things like that,
because something, something God wants it this way.
And I started like sitting on that thinking like,
oh, is that really a big deal?
Like, okay, maybe the issue of procreation.
Okay, but we have enough straight people in the,
I remember actively sitting there in church,
as he's saying this, thinking like,
well, there's enough straight people in the world.
I think we have enough to just grow, you know,
more babies or more people if we needed it.
So, I mean, what's wrong with that?
And then the whole thing about,
oh, they're damned to go to hell.
I'm like, well, that sucks.
It was just this like moment of silent criticism.
I never at all, at any point of my questioning
or deconstruction phase where I asked someone these things,
because along with all of that demonization
and that hate preaching, the notion of being black
and not believing in God or being a Christian
was an absolute no, no, like that didn't exist.
Nor did I even know of anyone that was black
and didn't believe up until like four or five years ago
when I landed on an atheist discord
and discovered folks and finding out.
So, and I'm 32.
So it took me like my mid to late 20s
to really know what all that meant.
I remember the same thing with the homosexuality.
Like I'm straight, or at least as far as I can tell,
I'm mostly straight.
But I guess everyone's a little gay.
No, have you seen Brad Pitt?
I don't, I'm just joking, but like, so like, yeah.
And I remember thinking like, wow, it kind of sucks
that like these people are like destined for hell
for just being themselves.
I also was, you mentioned that you weren't allowed
to have female teachers in your church.
Same with, in my church, you were allowed
to have female teachers and I asked them,
I asked the lady in, I was just finished ministry college
and I was reading through the New Testament.
And I said, hey, this New Testament verse says
that women are not to have authority over a man
or to speak in church or to speak.
And they said, well, that was for a time.
That's not for now.
Like things, you know, and I was like, and at the time,
you know, there were people like whispering
in these small churches and they weren't educated
so they couldn't.
And I was like, okay, but the actual verse gives
an explanation that says, because the woman was
to see first, like Eve was to see first,
that's the reason why she can't speak
and have authority over a man.
I was like, so it gives the reason.
I was like-
It always goes back to original sin.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I saw, I said, wait, so are we allowed to be,
are people allowed to be homosexual?
Homosexual, is that okay now?
No, that's not okay now.
Why?
Why can women speak in church and women are allowed
to pray without the heads being covered
and women are allowed to assume authority over a man,
which are all New Testament scriptures.
And something that Jesus never mentioned,
which is homosexuality, that's still a sin.
I mean, Paul mentioned that.
Right, right.
Yeah, and it was that, for me,
that was a big part of my questioning as well.
And I had a very, I had a gay friend who was
closer to 45 years of men in ministry college
who I saw was getting hurt by these doctrines.
So I wanted to investigate and look into them myself.
So, right.
Okay, so how did you go from that,
the questioning to eventually deconstructing
your faith altogether?
That was more towards, because prior to college,
I grew up going to church a lot and being active in that.
So a lot of my friends grew from there.
So it was like this silent questioning,
but I still went along with the ride, I guess you could say.
And up until, obviously I moved not that far away from home
to go to college and whatnot,
basically just moved from Southern California
to Northern California.
And that's when I started to discover different people
that weren't within my little church circle bubble type deal.
And through that, I mean, I've always been a person,
I always felt I've always been a person, I should say,
that was comfortable with being in different surroundings.
I never, my family was never like vacationers
or we never really ventured out
of what was the structured norm that my sister was raised on.
But I've always was very curious,
I always was thinking very adventurous,
but I never dared myself to
or I was always maybe talked against it.
So that finally having that space to go to school
or go to university where I was not expected to be home
every day or things like that and did parties and stuff,
that allowed me to kind of then not be so fearful
of researching what I always had been thinking about.
Still didn't dare myself asking anyone.
I didn't know who to really ask to be honest at that point.
So I just silently, just pull up the Googler,
any kind of Netflix documentary,
any type of anything that I could research
in libraries or online, anywhere,
just to kind of get an understanding of what that meant to me
as far as why was I questioning
or why was I thinking differently?
Or maybe this is just that usual phase
that your adult parents tell you,
you don't do a thing, blah, blah, blah, type deal.
I never had that conversation or talk,
but I figure maybe having to my other friends
must be happening to me.
But I would say around the age of 19
is when I started to start questioning
and identifying more so silently.
And it came into a critical point
when I lost my biological father,
I think at the beginning of my third year
of starting college.
So that loss was sudden.
And that was maybe like,
this has been more than two years now.
Yeah, that loss was sudden.
And I was daddy's girl,
we never shared like personal conversations
at that time when he died, I was 20,
but we had a silent mutual relationship understanding
type deal, like whatever my dad did, I would do with them.
So when he passed and the day of his funeral,
I would say afterward, someone came up to me
and was church family, people tried to offer comfort
and all that stuff.
I don't recall who it was,
but I remember I just saw red when they said,
your father is in a better place
and God needs him for his works
or something along those lines.
And I was just like, and I didn't say anything
because I wanted to hit her.
So I staved away from,
say it in my mind, I'm like,
what the fuck does God need my dad for?
I need my dad.
I remember hearing myself say that.
And then from there,
that was pretty much the catalyst of me
moving into my deconstruction phase,
which lasted roughly about six or seven years.
Whoa, six or seven years.
Whoa, I didn't know, did not know that.
I'm being blown away a little bit
because normally with these interviews is,
I do lots of research,
but because you haven't told the in-depth version
of your story, well, you've told these, but I-
I mean, I have here and there, but it's been a while.
I'm like, I don't know where this is going to go.
I don't know if we're going to be laughing or crying.
I don't know what's going to happen.
So, wow, that's incredible.
I remember you mentioning that you went on jury duty
and that was at one stage.
Can you tell us a little bit about that?
That was like a final nail in the coffin for you?
Yes, it was.
I remember, yeah, it was about, oh, hi, babe.
I see everyone's comments, by the way.
Thank you for everyone for being so active.
It's so great to see so many people out here
supporting Jenna.
I'm just nervous to respond, but hey, I see y'all.
And my wife, I don't think she knows how to use YouTube channel.
She doesn't have an account, but she said,
tell her I said thank you.
So I think she heard you.
So she must be watching, hey, babe.
Hi.
You're welcome.
Oh, yes.
When I had my first jury duty assignment, let's see.
This was, I think, that was a weird time
because I recall being a few months out of a really short-term
dating experience that grew way too fast for my own comfort.
This guy wanted to outright marry me,
and I was just like, no.
I don't even love you, even though I said it.
It was a lot because I think I was at an age where,
back when I was younger, being in these little church girl groups
where you're in almost like purity culture type,
raised the little girl to be a little woman type of deals.
That's what I was always involved in.
That's what my mother always put me in.
So thinking like, oh, when I was a little girl,
I thought I'd be married by this age,
and I started thinking about having a baby by that age.
And by this age, I would be here.
And at that point, I was like maybe 27.
And I was always, and I was automatically thinking to myself,
I'm two years late because I was supposed to be married at 25.
It's this thick, toxic.
Amy was the same.
Right?
She was like, I want to have my first baby at 21.
So she was like super young.
Oh, you're way younger.
No, I had a timeline because I had to go get through school and shit.
But no, it's that toxic type of deal, toxic type of idea
that was fed into me and I hung on to for no reason.
And look at me now, I'm 32 and that shit didn't happen still.
But yeah, it was a real point in my life.
I remember going to jury duty.
I had a friend a few years back that I no longer at that point spoke to.
But he gave me the Christopher Hitchens book, God is not great.
So it was in the truck of my car.
I had been in truck of my car for years and my mom was like, oh, you know,
you're going to sit in this room until they think they're going to assign you.
But you're going to sit there for hours.
So you better bring something to read.
And I was like, I had like school books and stuff.
But I mean, who wants to read that?
Yeah, you're not going to read that, yeah.
And, you know, I, you know, pull up and park and whatever.
And I remember going to the trunk thinking like, OK,
I'll pull out one of my textbooks or something.
I don't know.
And then I found that book and the trunk of my car.
So I'm like, oh, OK, it was like that point where I spent a few months
not really thinking about, you know, not believing.
I was kind of in a weird limbo.
Like maybe I'll just believe for a while just to see if I start to really believe
that kind of thing.
And then and it was also on the other side was like, well, I don't really give a
fuck, but if I get in trouble, then I'll start praying.
So it was like this weird phase.
And still at that point, even that was at the tail end of my deconstruction
where I did not verbally to anyone.
No one around me, family, friends, nothing knew that I was questioning,
nor did I ask anyone.
Because again, fearful again, didn't understand that there was me existed.
So, yeah, I took that book, read it.
I think I read it twice and I fumbled through it.
It was a long trial.
I was on it for like two and a half weeks.
So I read it twice and like by the third time of kind of scanning
through certain chapters that I wanted to revisit.
I think a few days after coming off that trial, really digesting everything
that I read, I was like, I don't think I believe anymore.
And at that point, that's when I had already finished reading the Bible.
I didn't really want to touch it again.
I'll really look at it because it caused me too much pain to think that
I feel like I'm cherry picking everything and I can't agree with everything
that's in this book.
I can't agree with, you know, how people just have this huge prejudice
against those that don't, you know, aren't ideally the sexual orientation,
you know, society wants you to be, even though I never identified as gay myself.
It was just hurtful because I had friends that were.
I could not fathom understanding why they would just automatically get
a hell pass and murderers that, you know, prayed before they were executed
got into heaven just because they prayed about it.
That logic never sat well with me.
And of course, the slavery should too.
So, yeah, after realizing that I was in a believer and knowing and understanding
what the word atheists meant, I mean, sure, it felt like a soft weight off my
shoulders, but I still felt more lost.
Like now I really am truly disconnected from this group because this is all I knew.
This is all I was taught and my family is all about it.
And I don't really have friends at that point.
I really didn't.
I didn't have friends.
Like if I was in school and I got in group sessions, that was just it.
I didn't really make friends.
Like I had zero friends.
I just had good co-workers that I occasionally talked to and went out by myself.
So I just, yeah, I felt lost.
And it was like really a heartbreaking turning point after about a month after
that, really sitting with it and then also realizing at that point, albeit it's
been at that point, it was about like seven years.
My father had passed realizing, oh, so I'm really, I'm not going to see my dad again.
So I had to regrieve alone of losing my dad again, knowing that there is no heaven
or there's no reason to even believe there is.
So that was difficult.
So, yeah.
It was just a heartbreaking process.
It bothers me when a lot of, when people, people will say that, oh, you just,
you de-converted or whatever or deconstructed because you wanted to sin or something.
It sounds like you're the same for me.
For me, it was not something you could like, you couldn't like peek under the rug
and then just pretend you didn't see what you saw.
It's like, it's like you'd just be lying to yourself.
Yeah.
And, and you need to, you know, and it's like you could pretend, but then you're
still just pretending and it's not really a choice.
Like belief isn't a choice.
You can't, you can't choose to believe that gravity doesn't exist so much so
that I'd step off a building.
Like, right.
Yeah.
And it was also, it was funny for me.
It was also the morality that I was taught in church that had me rejected
eventually because I believe that truth was the most important thing.
I was taught that truth was honesty and truth were the most important thing.
And for me, and it sounds like for you as well, it was, it's, it feels like the
moral thing to do, to follow the evidence, right?
And that's something that a lot of Christians don't get is they think that
we must want to sin or we must, I don't know, have some sort of demon or something.
I don't know.
And I didn't.
I think I tried really hard, especially with striving to really read scripture
and pay attention in church and do Bible study and all of that.
I tried really hard to be this woman, be this God fearing, virtuous woman that,
you know, proverbs speaks of and that my mom was the edifice of and that she
pushed in both me and my sister.
I really wanted that because I was at a loss.
I lost the part of me as far as family several years ago at that point.
And my mom and my sister are, you know, so much alike.
So they had each other when, you know, they wanted to pray together or they
always talked every day.
I didn't have that kind of relationship with my mom.
It was never really, even before I came out, it was never really that closeness.
Like she always called me like disgusting names.
And when I was younger, because I was never, I was a huge,
I was a tomboy and I wasn't, you know, the most hygienic little girl.
And I always liked playing outside.
And I, you know, I liked being like the boys because it was more fun.
I hated being in a dress and acting this way.
I'm like, this doesn't feel fun.
Like I want to like do boy shit.
You know, I always had boyfriends and, you know, she always would, you know,
demean me about it.
And, you know, that stuck with me growing up and I strive to, you know,
make changes to my parents, look, do, be more like her and my sister, all that
stuff, because especially after losing my dad, I had no one to really defend me.
My dad would always come in defense of me, of certain things that my mom was
upset with me about, and I no longer had that.
So I had to learn to be like them.
I had to learn to, you know, bury my own thoughts and feelings just to keep the
peace. And that's, that's some, unfortunately, was a self-defense
mechanism that became very toxic.
Right.
So.
Yeah.
Okay.
Did you?
When you found that, like online, community, did that change things for you?
Like.
Um, well, it certainly did.
I found people that I could feel like safe to ask questions, excuse me, ask
questions to felt safe to have conversations or listen to conversations
where it's like actual people discussing things.
Um, joining this discord server for several months.
I didn't show my face.
I had like a avatar.
I think, uh, I think I had like a picture of my dog as my avatar.
I mean, it was cute, fluffy, white little dog.
Why not?
Um, yeah.
And, um, oh, and, um, and I'll reveal something in a moment that no one knows.
I mean, people have had hints, but anyway, um, like I didn't reveal my face
for several months and because I was scared and I wasn't sure if this was safe
or even right.
Like even then I felt like guilty because I'm like, oh, I'm not supposed
to agree to this.
Why am I agreeing?
Why does this feel good?
I must, this must be bad, but it felt nice to actually make friends.
It felt nice to communicate with people.
Even if I didn't know them physically, like they were, it was people, you know,
online like this and I enjoyed it because I was able to talk or at least felt like
being heard.
So that meant a lot in the beginning.
And after a while I got brave and showed a couple of close people, um, at that
time, what I looked like, and that eventually grew to me and a, a good friend
at the time to have a small little podcast called international free thinkers.
And that lasted for like a year and a half.
Then that grew into another friend, putting my name in the hat to be a
host and producer on the ACA.
And that lasted for about slightly over a year.
Then that grew into being me on the Neil Sisselford eighth channel where I met
most of the people in chat there.
Um, and then eventually finding out Tarte, which is now Tang, which is, you
know, my boo Oz and yeah, it's been a really fast four years, I think.
Wow.
Well, I know that everyone I speak to loves you.
Like you've got so many supporters here in the chat, as I mentioned before.
Um, and it's definitely, um, I remember you were, uh, like I mentioned at the
start, you were one of the, I remember I was really discouraged about this channel
and, um, about like just the growth and I reached out like, Hey, can I come on
and to Tang and like, you know, share my story so I can get some viewers over
here as well.
Yeah.
And you were so encouraging and so helpful.
It was really nice.
Um, so, uh, so I guess do you want to move into the part of the story that no one
knows about yet?
Yeah.
Oh, I see.
I'm already spilling a little bit.
Yep.
I'm ready.
Um, yeah.
Um, yeah.
So after, uh, as many years as it's been a few years, um, after like doing content
and well, thank you, Theo.
Let me see, by the way, I haven't seen you in a while, Theo.
Um, and for the record, as of now, at least to my knowledge, my family doesn't
know that I'm, uh, produced content or online or if I have hair.
So that's really under wraps.
Yeah.
It'd be totally, uh, I know what you mean.
It's like, they found it.
I'm like, oh my God, you've been doing this for years.
Yeah.
Cause I've talked, I haven't referenced their names, but I've talked about them.
I haven't shared images of them, but I've like talked of them and shared certain
things.
So obviously I wouldn't want to find that, but you know, whatever.
Um, but yeah, when I came out to them August of last year and prior to that, I
was very adamant about just not coming out to them at all.
Um, I felt safe there.
I felt, you know, whatever reason I could bring myself to think that I could do it.
I just bit myself.
I, I, I pushed back against my own self and said, no, why?
What would be the point?
I know what's going to happen.
I know what they'll say.
I know how they react.
And gosh, I was a like 99% right.
Um, the other percent is how toxic and crazy and ridiculous it became.
But yeah, I came out to them in August and the push was twofold.
It was me primarily, uh, reaching a point where I was breaking.
And I didn't feel the only comfort I had was, and if you recall, if any of you know,
obviously I have a different background now.
I, I sit in a chair, but for years I was known to always sit on the floor with
my bed on the right, on the left side of me.
And I was sitting in this little corner of my room, decorated with purple pillows,
not much like how it isn't now, but, um, that would be my setup.
This will be my safe space so I can actually have an online presence because this was
the only space I felt where I can block out my reality and feel like I'm sane and
feel like this was my comfort.
Being able to communicate with people and make friends and also talk my shit.
Be that online content creator slash activist type person that I didn't know I
was capable of or felt that I needed to be, but I just kind of landed in that space.
So I was like, okay, well, then I'll just go with it.
But, um, in the midst of all that, having that, it, it still wasn't enough.
And at that point, I think I was about Oz and I were about six to seven months
into our relationship.
We had started dating, um, oh gosh, I feel like I've been with this man forever.
I swear I love him.
Um, can't even, uh, like maybe two years, two December's ago, I would say, if I
can recall correctly, we've been together for like a more than a year and a half.
So yeah, um, we started dating, um, we had first met him coming out to LA and
March, um, March of that later year.
And our last year, I should say, so, you know, obviously having that chemistry
with him and us being in love, it couldn't last virtually as nice as it was.
And we didn't have issues, not at all surprisingly, but we wanted more.
So it was first me realizing that I was coming to a breaking point with keeping
the secret and not feeling like I'm being my most authentic self.
Not, I'm only appearing this way online and outside.
I'm, I have a mask.
Is, uh, were you, were you hiding the fact that you were dating Oz as well?
Yes.
Yeah.
Okay.
Cool.
Yeah.
So that's why it was twofold and it was twofold when I came out with to them
August of last year.
Uh, it was in a public place.
It was a new type of brunch spot that we tried.
So I kind of tainted that place now for them.
Anyway, um, I went back and it was, um, so I hadn't, I remember a week prior
just having on and off conversations with Oz about, you know, how we see he and
I moving forward and me being so scared of, you know, obviously wanting to
physically be with him and have a life, but how the fuck am I going to do that?
Um, but I made the choice to be like, okay, I'm at a point where I, I don't
feel comfortable on my own skin.
I don't even feel like this is my skin.
I don't feel like me.
Um, and there has to be a point where, you know, you're 30 something years old
and you're still, you know, hiding this.
And I don't put anyone down or however young or old you are, you do it.
As long as you're doing it on your own terms, you know, that's when you know
you're ready.
Uh, I know, and I'm not, I won't share the name, but they're in the chat where
it came to a situation where he was outed and that sucks when you can't do
or make the decision for yourself.
Um, so I made the decision for myself to let them know that I wasn't a believer.
And at first, you know, they were really sympathetic.
Um, my mom was a bit harsher in her criticism and questioning, whereas my
sister was more tearful and trying to understand why and why I would cause
the damage, what made me angry with God, all that jazz.
And I'm like, I'm not angry with something.
I don't feel that exists.
I tried to give all the explanations people tell me to use and, uh, use this
way or all conversations I had listened to over the years, try to utilize all of
that knowledge, but when you're in the heat of the moment and you're like
shaken and you're like, you can't get your fucking words out.
It's kind of like, I was stuck and in a public place, no less.
And, um, you know, that conversation lasted about maybe 45 minutes and then it
moved into me confessing that, Oh, um, I'm seeing someone wearing love and I
plan on moving.
That's right.
Yeah, I just imagined that they would have been blamed all of that on Oz.
Like you weren't really deconstructing for seven years or whatever you, that
was Oz, Oz has poisoned you.
He's like the male equivalent of a succubus, like, uh, whatever that is.
Yeah, essentially, yes.
And, and as, I mean, it sounds funny, but it actually became nastier.
Like it became like as nasty as, you know, being on, being on a racist level.
Um, because like, um, you know, obviously telling them several times, um, that
he's a white man, um, they, my mom primarily became really upset at the fact
that, you know, using my father against me, your dad would not appreciate his
daughter being taken away by a white man.
Cause, you know, the white man that's always taken so much away from your dad,
especially at work and blah, blah, this and blah, blah, that.
And, you know, white men don't appreciate black women.
All, all this, um, much worse things that I could say were set to me.
Um, you know, my mom, not in this, um, first, um, coming out, but I would say
about a month and a half after coming out, there was a situation at
where, you know, every Friday are, uh, as often as me and my sister could,
we would go to our mom's house at this, you know, visit and whatnot.
Um, you know, earlier in the year, that April, my stepdad, my mom had
remarried, um, he had passed away.
Um, so we made it a point to really like see her, even though that was
something routine did anyway, but, you know, just to check on her, see how she's
done.
She's a workaholic.
That's how she dealt with her grief.
Um, still to this day, that's how she's dealing with her grief.
Um, so we saw her that evening and for three hours, I was attacked, basically
called all sorts of names called the N word called a heifer called a whore,
a slut, I, I, every thing you could possibly think of, um, all just because I
was planning on destroying my life and their words in California, all for a white man.
That's, um, you know, people often say that people will often say that, uh, you
can't be racist against white people or whatever.
Um, I understand their point in that white people aren't oppressed in the most, in
the majority of places.
There are some places definitely, definitely, um, of course, but, um, but I
didn't, I guess I was a bit, um, I could understand that perspective, but I think
what people don't understand is situations like that where it literally is race.
Like, like it is literally a, um, immutable characteristic that Oz is being judged for,
regardless of whether or not he's wired or a man or straight or whatever.
Like it's an immutable characteristic, something they can't change and you're
judging them for that.
Um, yeah, it was purely racist.
It was purely just a huge judgment on this guy is stealing you away from us and you
are buying it and you are believing in whatever he's trying to poison you with.
You're, you drank the Kool-Aid, so to speak, in my mother's words, you, you, she
said something very disgusting and degrading, like sexually, uh, towards me.
Like you are offering like all the milk, uh, we're, and giving him the
Cal for free things like that references and actually other references are much
more sexualized and worse.
Um, even though me and Oz make fun of it now, but in the moment it feels kind of weird.
Um,
it's that old, um, old saying that there's no hate like Christian love.
Right.
But even so, um, like that's, that's fine.
I don't give a fuck about Christian love because I know that shit's hateful.
What compounded it was that it was from my mother and my sister, like gradually my
sister got worse with me, my mother from the start or
it was horrible.
Yeah.
Oh, so did they did it became, did it become, did the issue of coming out was
that most, did it, did it move away from a set?
Were they essentially more offended that you really, that you now not know
what you believe in God or were they more offended that you're running off to, um,
be with a white guy?
Honestly, they were more offended that I was running, running off to be with a white
guy.
Yeah.
Wow.
It was more that.
Do you think that if Oz had like a nice little side part and like a blaze jacket and went
to your local church, do you think they would have the same issue or do you think it was
because he's like a white guy who's an atheist?
I'm not going to give it the benefit of that.
I think it was really because he was like an atheist.
He was white and the fact that there's no God in this attitude, the, you know, the pot.
And, you know, as disgusting as that sounds, that's that's what I believe in.
I that's exactly what it was because it barely came down to them asking me or
questioning me about my faith.
Most times, most times it was about, you know, okay, what are your plans with this?
Why are you doing this?
You're giving up your near six-figure job.
You're giving up this perfect insurance.
You're giving up your home.
And, you know, in all of that narrative, they, for the, from September through December,
made very interesting choices and actions to drive me away from my decision.
And it was, and I say it like that because they were so, there was such a mind
book and such a deceptive way of manipulating me again.
Because I've always been easily, I've always felt, even though I never really
recognized it until recently, felt that I was very receptive and doing what I was told.
Because if I had a thought about something or a decision that I wanted to do or a change
in my career or a change in my education or something, I was always talked to very
harshly against it and that, no, this is the right path.
This is the, you know, the more secure path you need to go this way.
Why can't you be like your sister?
Yada, yada, yada.
So I stuck with that.
And, you know, as in the midst of that already dealing with my trauma of feeling
like I'm alone in this three-part family, where is this me, my mom, my sister?
I'm like, I have no other choice but to just cave and give in and do what they say.
Because that's where it was quiet for me.
That's where I could have peace and no one's dealing at me.
And I'm like, okay, I do this, okay, I do that.
And always at the heel doing whatever they requested and following whatever they wanted.
So the fact that they tried really hard to pull strings and manipulate me and my
decision was not only just, was showed my strength, I guess, in all of it.
Cause obviously I'm here now in Indiana.
But it was very eye-opening seeing how much I did not mean to them.
Like I felt that I, I felt and still feel I don't have the respect at all.
I don't know if they really love me because they would question me if I actually really
loved them and they would often say continuously, especially my mother, that I didn't
love them because I would not be making the decisions I'm making if I loved them.
Like that makes sense.
It's, I, it, I cannot, I cannot underestimate how hard it must have been for you to be the
kind of person who wants to keep the peace and, and make sure everyone's happy to have
people actively, like using that against you to try and get you to change for something
that means so much to you.
I, yeah, that, that must have been so, I mean, so difficult.
I know, I noticed it, not to talk about Amy again, but I noticed it with Amy, that, that
with her family, a lot of, for a long, long time, people would use the fact that she would
go with whatever else everyone else wants to do.
They would use that.
And even I found myself doing that as well, where like, we'd watch the movie I wanted to
watch rather than the movie she wanted to watch because I was more excited about it or I pushed
the case for it more.
Um, and for Amy, it was a learning curve to, to change that about herself and to like, go like,
no, I want this.
I feel you, Amy.
I'm still learning.
And, and, but it sounds like for you, like you, it was like a, it had to be like a light
switch in which you're like, no, I'm, I'm making this huge step.
I am leaving all this safety.
I'm running off with this, this, um, you know, Oz.
Um, and, you know, like, it must have, that must have been so incredibly hard not to, you
know, and then have them push back so hard against that.
Um, I would be, every time that we would go out together, I would be extremely cautious.
Um, thinking that maybe I should take my own car or maybe I should just meet them there.
And when I found my situation is that I wasn't taking my own car and I was running with my sister
or all three of them, uh, in a, um, a talk occurred and that talk being them, you know, still questioning
me, me still re-answering all the damn fucking questions they asked me prior because they don't
listen or they just want to, you know, string along their own narrative or me not even having
the opportunity to relay or tell my responses because, you know, just sitting there being
attacked by two people, I'm not that much of an aggressive person.
Like I can, excuse me, defend myself, but against my mom and my sister, especially with the kind
of relationship I had with them and the type of defense mechanism I built up, unfortunately,
on my own to just be in peace with them was difficult for me to be, uh, defensive. And
I can say that the only time, the last time I remember crying in front of them was when
I initially came out to them in August. After that, I didn't allow them to see me cry.
And it's not, and I'm not saying I haven't cried. I've had days, weeks, every week,
something just near panic attacks, near and just high anxiety all the fucking time.
Um, you know, it would be like, I've had my own issues with my past job, um, just high anxiety
going to work because the department was just shit, but even having high anxiety going home,
I would take hours trying to get home, um, or not trying to get home. I should say I would
literally just park somewhere else and stay in my car for like two hours.
Well, yeah, often you would join deep drinks to chant and you're like, oh, I'm away from work.
And I'm like, are you driving or are you in like a parked car somewhere? Like
more than likely parked car somewhere. And because even though I didn't live with my
mother anymore, I owned a home with my sister that high anxiety. And then of course her, um,
having, um, she was newly wedded. She has a husband now. He lived with us. It was just
uncomfortable all the time. And all I could do was rush to my room and just sit in my corner,
my room and have my door closed for the rest of the night and just be that way. I made sure maybe
I had enough to eat because I didn't want to come out of my room. It was, I lived that way for
quite a few months, uh, until I moved because I just was too fearful of just being in their
presence or having being talked to, um, or having to explain myself. And those times were really
ugly when I had to, like just, you know, belittling, belittling me, my decisions, calling me a fool,
calling me whore, all the stuff. And you know, I would, I, I have several recordings of
our, maybe ours long conversations, uh, from my mother and my sister of them attacking me. And
the only person I shared them with has been Oz. He's heard it all. Although you have a
Patreon tier. If people bid a hundred dollars, they'll get to view, uh, listen to the, no,
wouldn't that be it? I mean, maybe. I get a cut. No. No, I, I, and it's funny you say that because
I actually do have a sense or a plan of sharing some, um, maybe it better, maybe at like future
content that I do. I don't know. I'm not in that space comfort yet to kind of truly
make that a choice or decision, but I still have the recordings and, you know, I could do a lot
with it because, you know, it's, it's, everyone's story is unique. And this is just one of those
unique levels of toxicity that a person deals with. It's incredibly unique, but, but unfortunately
incredibly relevant to a lot of people, I think. Exactly. I think, like the, um, Theos is something
really amazing. They said, really important to be able to check yourself and recognize when
limits are crossed, uh, and you have to protect yourself against the harmful influences. I really
appreciate that. I really liked that. Yeah. And it took me a while to identify even that
if I did or not. I'm not, I can't really recall because I, I spent some time now just kind of
blocking out all that trauma and just rethinking about it yesterday and today. It's partly why I
couldn't sleep. Um, it was just, it was, it's, it's been really hard because it's now, you know,
it's this weird, I now still feel this weird expectation of satisfying them because since
being here, neither of them have called me. I've always been the one to try to initiate
contact, but it's only been through texts. I'm still too fearful to even hear their voice or call
them. Uh, I think I've called my mom once or twice and then my sister once and even with,
and, and I say my sister got worse with me. She truly did because when I, that one time I called
my sister, um, I was like, maybe she was in the middle of work about to go to lunch or whatever.
Um, and, you know, the usual kind of casual start of a conversation like, oh, how are you,
how's it moving, blah, blah, blah. And then she immediately hits with, you know, oh,
where are you with the space or, or, or something that she asked about where I was living and
something else that was really like her. I know how my sister and my mom interact.
My sister was fishing and she does that in order to, you know, obviously translate that
over to my mother. And I know this because every time I would relay something to my sister,
my mom would attack me about something maybe a couple of days after and reference something
I know I specifically just told my sister and not told her. I'm like, I'm not stupid.
And then I would, I, there's been one or two times I approached my sister about that
and she would deny it. And I'm like, I'm not dumb. I specifically told you this. I know I
didn't tell mother that. So, and, you know, they always accused me of being the liar and the deceiver.
They lied and deceived me quite a bit in the last several months. They lied and deceived me about
my, about, you know, pushing me to take my name off the home that me and my sister bought.
We bought our parents' home. We had lived there about five years or I've lived there about five
years. And the deception was her going to our real estate person wanting to take my name off the
property because that was just her push to say like, okay, well, I'm really going to do this.
This is real life. You still want to make this decision. This was what they were doing.
And like, we're going to sell, we're going to sell the house because you've ruined everything
and you're running off. My sister put the house on the market.
That's crazy. I remember calling you up once. I think, I think it was to talk about something.
And also you spoke to Amy briefly to like give Amy some advice or something. And I remember
the real estate agent came in and talked to you and you're like, oh, yeah, yeah, this room's done
like, and you're talking to them briefly because I was like, what's going on? You're like, oh,
yeah, we're selling my wife's sister's put the house on the market because she's angry with me.
And the next level manipulation. That's, it doesn't in there because the reason
your sister is being so petty. Yeah. Yeah. And it doesn't even in there because the reason why
she made that choice, which was a lie, or the choice is a lie. And her reasoning was
my mom had approached me that one Friday that I was at our house and they'd be waiting me for
three hours and initiate, it initiated as her saying, you're forcing your sister to make a
difficult decision because if you leave and we decide to want to take your house and take your
name off the house, that would drive the mortgage rate up higher, which means it's forcing your
sister to pay more mortgage a month. And, you know, in the midst of being in trauma and not
understanding everything, I don't have real estate background. I don't fucking know how
shit works. I'm like, all right, you tell me about it. I'm going to kind of trust you, I guess.
I don't know. And I had at that point, really didn't feel a reason
for my mom to lie to me. I didn't at that early point. And so that did hurt me because I remember
I remember a month prior to that, telling my sister, I don't want to take anything from you.
I don't, I'm not asking a portion of the house, you don't have to buy me out.
Like, I know how much it pays to live in fucking California. I am fine with taking what I have.
I have a savings and whatever money I get from me living my job. I was fine with that. And yeah,
and that's what I did. Really? So you walked, you just gave your interest of the house to
your shit, your, wow. Yeah. Oh my. So I already had said that because
that was me feeling terrible for coming out and being who I was.
That is just, that is, if I was your sister, I would be incredibly thankful.
That is like, that is, you essentially gave her a house, like that's what you've done.
Yeah. Nothing, and nothing's good enough.
And, you know, yeah, I remember telling her that. And so they constructed that lie of saying her,
the mortgage rate to go up. And so that forced her to sell the house because she couldn't afford
her on a roam. I'll be it. I don't know why her lazy ass husband didn't have enough money to help
support her, but whatever. So they, she put the house on the market. It lasted on the market
for about a month. It did not sell. We had a couple buyers that she, on her own, disagreed to their
offer. Even though I'm still co-owner, this house is shared 50-50. You still need to go by me on
these decisions, but all decisions she made herself didn't consult me whatsoever. I even had to sign
a paper expressing that I would not receive any funds or any money if this house would sell.
Like I had to sign my paper on that legally to say I would not get anything. But the house didn't
sell because she didn't accept the two offers. And we took the house back off the market.
And then what finally put the nail on the coffin was a week before
I was to move, they had their final like big, you know, argument with me and I'll kind of
touch on that because it was really, really disgusting and ugly, especially on my sister's
side. But a week before I was set to, you know, move out and move away, my sister's like, oh,
I'm setting up an appointment for you to meet with the real estate person to sign your name
off the property. And I have to pay $200. So she paid that $200 just to get my name off of the
property and that's it. No mortgage rate went up, nothing happened. She pays the same amount today.
And I remember telling this to Oz and then I sat back and I was like, wait, do you mean to tell
me this was never the case two months ago when she put the house on the market? That was just
their ploy to deceive me and to make me feel like this is real life, you're damaging your sister,
you should stop what you're doing. And I broke down because it didn't occur to me then only
at that point where I was like, they created this huge lie in order to fuel my decision to not go.
And I just felt so disgusted. It was, yeah, it was a dirty move. It was completely dirty.
And I felt like they have no level of respect for me. I don't even know what they love me.
I don't even know if they even cared to even consider what the hell they were doing, even
though to them what the hell I was doing was the worst and put them in the worst detriment,
because from my sister's point of view,
the mere fact and many will laugh at this, especially those that have legal knowledge,
the mere fact that I didn't give myself, give my sister two years notice before moving somewhere.
Two years notice, years, like with a Y.
With a Y. 24 months. The fact that I didn't give her 24 months notice of me moving
was her fuel to be like, you are fucking me over.
So because she didn't give you, I'm just googling because I'm not good at math,
730 days notice. Because you didn't give 730 days notice.
I gave her-
You bitch channel, how could you do that?
I know, right? I gave her at best six months.
Six months. Oh, how could you ever give her 26 weeks notice? Oh my gosh.
And the fact that she was like, you agreed to give me two years notice if you ever decided to move.
I'm like two fucking years ago, I wasn't even with anyone two fucking years ago.
I didn't even plan on telling you that I was an atheist or anything two fucking years ago.
I didn't know what the fuck I was doing with my life.
Two fucking years ago is when COVID happened.
We're in the past COVID times now. It's a different one.
Right, right. Like who the fuck is to say, oh, in two years, I'm about to leave out.
But you know, COVID just happened. I could die.
Like you really are just going to harbor this hate and deceive me because I didn't give you two years
notice. What if I had, you know, randomly died and left you with a mortgage?
Like, would you be mad at me then because I died? Like, I don't understand. I gave you six months.
You can't. Yeah, you can't. The six months is a lot, by the way, too. But it's like, you can't.
You can't pee. It's like, nothing is at that stage. It's like, nothing is satisfactory.
I, so, not to talk about myself again, but I am going to apologize everyone, but I think this is
a good point. Since we've had a little atlas, we were like, you know, when we're trying for,
we're trying for IVF for like five years and we're like, what the fuck are our values?
Like now that we don't believe in Jesus or like now we're not convinced of the existence of God,
like, like, is it okay to lie and steal and cheat and murder? Like, what, like, what are our morals?
We're trying to think and analyze that. Yeah, yeah. Like, why can't we, you know,
what's important to a life? What is life? Like, do you, should we just be hedonistic analysis?
So I spent a lot of time thinking about it and I wrote down, like, my parental values. Like, what I
think creates a good life and it's like, things like honesty, kindness, intellectual, such critical
thinking on big issues, creativity, like things like that. Like, things that I think are valuable to
live, like, a good life balance. And Amy agreed with like most of my points, like she,
well, she liked all points, but one thing she put down there that I never would have
considered putting down there, but I can see how relevant it is for someone who isn't like,
in a not just loud person like myself, who kind of gets his way by throwing tantrums, is,
is a self care. So Amy wrote down self care and she wanted to impart to Atlas
self care that it's okay to not people please, it's okay to take a break. It's okay to,
to make sure you're getting, you're recharging and you're, and you're,
you're, you're making sure you're okay first because you can't be, you can't be,
holy shit. David, I love you, but I need to meet Amy.
She gets, she gets nervous coming on here, but we should get you guys on the show together. But
she, it's funny, and even, even tonight, she's, she got invited out to a 40th birthday party.
It's like to go have some drinks at a bar. And she's like, Oh, I feel bad about leaving Atlas.
I'm like, no, I was like, you go, I was like, I can take care of Atlas. I've got a bottle,
like you go have a couple of drinks, have a good time. Like, because you need to like,
and she's like, but I feel bad about leaving the, I'm like, don't feel bad. Like you've got to take
care of, you got to make sure you're recharging in all your other areas as well, not just like,
your life isn't just baby now. So I'm, I kind of thought, I'm like, you go have a good time.
Go have fun. Go drink with your friends. So yeah, I think, so we're having a boys night tonight
atlas and myself and always night. Yeah. So, um, but, um, yeah. So do you, do you resonate with
that, the self care, the like, are you trying to find that's a valuable thing to have?
Yes. I, I, I've always recognized that being valuable. I just never knew how to navigate it
and know what to do with myself. I always keep saying, I'm not even to Oz. I'm like, babe,
I'm boring. I don't know what to do. Like, I, like, yeah, I can make cool shit. And I like doing
graphic stuff. Um, I like, you know, chatting to people, even though I have a hard time talking to
people. Um, I'm, I'm, it's so weird. Like I, I, I can easily have or do this whole personality
thing. You know, I don't really see myself as such as like, yeah, I can do a stream. I can talk about
shit, whatever. And people want to hear what I got to say. Cool. I guess. Um, but I don't see myself
as something big or wanting to be big or just, I'm just another human trying to relay a story
that I'm sure someone could relate to. And they can see me and be like, Oh, that's a good example
of someone that gets me. Cause I never had that. I needed that. But, you know, as far as the self
care thing, now they was, I know he'll listen later. But we've had, we more or less had this
kind of similar conversation like a week or two ago where the first couple of weeks being here,
not that I didn't want to be here. I felt the relief of actually being in a different space
and feeling and seeing the love of my life physically every day. That's cool. But, you know,
it was rough because I was so, I was so used to having to adhere to someone else
or follow this set of rules or not be out, you know, I'm like 32.
Um, just, you know, be felt really constricted and felt like if I did something crazy, like
change my hair color, I would be talked about. Um, or, you know, things like that. And I remember
Oz and I sitting at a restaurant and he said, you know, you're no longer having to need to
check your phone or communicate with someone saying, you know, you're going to be here,
or you'll be home at this time, or I, because I always had to do that. I always still had to do
that. And it's like, you had to have, did you like have to have permission to just be yourself?
And it wasn't me even asking for permission. It was like, this is my, this is, I'm offered this
permission to let them know what the fuck I'm doing all the time. That's crazy. Like, and,
you know, he would ask me like you, now you can feel free and do whatever the fuck you feel is
good for you. And you don't have to rush. And I had planned on trying to do my solo show again
and all this other stuff, but I wasn't mentally and emotionally giving myself the relief or the
break. I'm more further out now and I'm a lot better than I was two weeks ago. But I, you know,
first couple of days, I started crying. Every other day after that, I would be tearful or be
apologetic to Oz about this, that whatever, because I couldn't navigate, even though I
loved the shared space that we have, I couldn't navigate the shared space because I felt
out of place for not having to be at someone's heels or having to do what someone asked me to
do. It was like, have you ever, have you? Yeah, I know. Have you ever, I'm only laughing because
it's like, oh my God, it's so, it's crazy. But have you not laughing at you laughing with you?
Have you? Have you ever lived outside of family, like a family environment? Like,
had you ever had your own place or lived with friends or anything like that?
If college counted maybe like a year. Okay. But aside that, no.
Yeah, it must be. And even when you're in college, you're kind of like you're following the
college's rules, right? You're studying in your classes. Yeah.
Wow. So yeah, I feel like this, I feel like this is going to be a
like a long fun couple of years for you as you like grow to relearn, relearn how to kind of be free.
Just not only that, just relearning me because even prior to this, prior to even coming out,
it was not but a short time before, like maybe earlier last year or late the year before that,
where I finally figured out my identity, figured out who I was because so much of, you know,
of Christian faith and whatnot, your life is wrapped around in it. You're not, you are not
your own person. You are living, breathing through God's, your God's vessel basically.
This life is not your own, all that jazz. So I'm like, okay, well, finding out like, oh,
do I really want these things because I want them? Or do I want these things because I was raised
and told that I should want these things figuring that shit out. You know, I had on and off thought
about having kids. I had on and off thought about wanting to be married. And I'm not saying I settled
like I've just figured out like I don't want that or I don't feel that it's for me. And then for a
while it felt really wrong to say that, because probably that, what do you call it? Oof, the
term you use the fuck me, I can't think of it right now. Cognitive dissidents. It was part of
that cognitive dissidents that you were supposed to have this life, you were supposed to have this,
that whatever. And the crazy thing about that, I viewed my cognitive distance,
dissidents through my mom and my sister's eyes during that final week of me leaving because
they would be in tears after, you know, the yelling didn't work anymore. They would be in
their tears saying, you know, I love you, but I will only want the best. And you deserve to have
a home, you deserve to make this amount of money. And you deserve to have everything you ever want
in life. And I'm like, you are just telling me materialistic things that you think I want.
Or that you had strived to put me on this path to think that this was making me happy.
And it hasn't been making me happy. Yeah, I made great money in my last job, but I was fucking
miserable and I was striving to find a way out. I didn't want that position anymore. And the people
in it and how I felt as a nurse, not really feeling like I was doing my best as a nurse and
just feeling like I just wanted to call off or and I don't call off work. I don't like doing that.
I want to enjoy the career I've chosen, even though I really didn't really choose this career.
I was told to be a nurse. Luckily, I fell in love with it. So I didn't even choose to be where I am
right now. As far as career wise, I was told be a nurse.
So I became a nurse and luckily I like it. I love it. I can say I can say I imagine because
you're so caring, you'd be a great nurse. Do you feel like your family just doesn't listen to you?
They don't. I know they don't. Especially my mother. Most of that is built around, you know,
their religion, the faith, following that and all that stuff. Other parts of it is that our
personalities are hugely different. They are very two strong personalities.
And when they're triggered, they can be really ugly. And my mother, even though she pretends
to strive to want to talk to me and have Sister Mother moment, it's nothing but her preaching.
I may get maybe two minutes of something and she'll take the rest of the whole hour to say
whatever the fuck she wants to say and bring up every little dirt unrelated to the conversation
of a situation to make me feel bad or make me think critically or harder in her eyes
so that she can then guide me in the direction that she wants. And as far as my sister,
I, and this hurts because I thought I could have a stronger bond with her.
And also mostly thinking that because the closeness in age and us growing up in the same,
you know, lifetime, whatever. So it's not like we're only three years apart.
But as she grew older and grew closer to my mother, I knew I was losing
that trust to securely tell her my feelings, especially when I started to notice that my
feelings were being regurgitated to my mother's ears. And I'm like, well, there goes the secret
bond of sisters. Like, I don't understand why you would have to play the middleman,
even though you say and stress that you don't like being the middleman and oh, yell at me and
say you and mommy should talk. I'm like, well, you purposely still play the role that you hate
apparently. For why? And, you know, it hurts because I love them both. But I'm so scared
of them purely because I don't think I can mentally, emotionally handle that right now,
especially with deception and the trauma and the ugliness that they
showed to me. And one of the major ugly parts from my sister was it was New Year's Day and we
went out to dinner and dinner sucked. It sucked because the food was first it sucked because
the food was horrible. It's placed my mom and mom wanted to go to go to in this really exclusively
expensive area and the food was shit. And then there's places where the food's like this big
and like 50. No, it was fairly good portions. But it came out cold and then my fish smelled fishy
and their food was good either. And so yeah, anyway, that was bad. And then it just got worse
because then my mom started to initiate, you know, the typical conversation about my decision.
So I was like, oh, okay, it's going to be one of those nights. All right, here we go. So
that's when I am from there. I've noticed my sister being and approaching me differently.
And it really took hit home for me that night. She got really ugly with me. She started calling
me names. She started, you know, after my mom shed it more crocodile tears about, you know,
I can't make you change your mind. I just want the best. I pray that you find God all that stuff.
And, you know, I, I shouldn't or didn't deserve to be apologetic, but I would,
you know, console her and try and keep as much peace as possible. Still not showing tears.
Still, you know, I didn't raise my voice at all to them or fight or yell back because I was just
like, I, maybe I'm trying to keep the upper hand in this when I think back about it and say, oh,
I didn't yell or oh, I didn't say anything ugly. So I got the upper hand. I won or whatever. And I
don't feel that way, but fuck it. But that night she just was everything I tried to say to my mom
as far as feeling sorry that she felt hurt for my decisions. My sister was like, don't believe her.
She's lying. She doesn't love you. She's this. She's that. She's just, she's still going to make it
the same. Would she say that in front of you or to her secretly? Right. Right. As close as this
painting is, that's where she would be and me facing my mom. Just right there. Ignoring the
fact that I'm there just yelling and saying, don't trust her. Don't say this. Don't believe her when
she says whatever. And I just, my brain goes to, my brain goes to like wanting to be just as petty.
So like when she's saying that, talking to them, I'm like, don't believe her. You're like,
God, that makes me so angry. But anyway, keep going.
What got worse is after, you know, my mom said what she wanted to say as far as, you know,
bestowing her motherly with them and God and all that. I, unfortunately, because how we went
out that night is, you know, my sister, I drove my sister to our mom's house and our mom drove us
to the restaurant. So when we let the restaurant, we went back to my mom's and then I drove being
my sister back home, 30 minute drive, 20 minutes of it, dead silence. Obviously I had, I mentally
and emotionally had about fucking enough. So I didn't want to say anything. My sister was, you
know, my, I was pissed that my sister was being so ugly. And then finally she says something. I
can't recall exactly what, but she was, you know, pushing these questions or saying, you know,
it's going to be your fault. Basically, and there's so much I'm so recalling, it's fucking traumatic.
Basically saying, you know, why would you want to be away from your family? This is your only
family. All you have is one parent. And, you know, you can never be as close to checking on mommy if
something happens. And if something happens, I'm going to blame you because it's your fault
for any health, anything that occurred. She literally said, anything health wise that happens to my
mother, she's going to blame me because she's stressing at the fact that one of her daughters
is gone or whatever. And yeah, it's a big ass thing. And so after still having her berate me,
where I'm merging off the freeway, and then she's still berating, and then she yells more,
and she's like, pull, pull over. And I'm like, I haven't said anything. And I figure she wanted
me to like just pull over so I can actually talk because, you know, me being kind of
trying to become going through already three hours, four hours at that point of you guys
being toxic to me. I'm traumatized enough as it is and just regurgitating all this shit.
Now I'm trying to drive us home back safely in the middle of the fucking night
while you're yelling in my ear in the passenger seat. She's like, pull over. So I pulled over
thinking like, okay, she wants me to actually actively talk. So that's that's safe because I
can't actually talk to you while you're yelling at me while driving. And I barely get to a complete
stop. And I'm almost slightly in the middle of the road trying to merge over to the closest lane
I could get where it's like a curve. And she opens the door and jumps out of the car.
She opens the door, jumps out of my car, slams it. She's like, get the fuck away from me. I don't
fucking know you. You don't love me. You don't fucking love us. And I'm walking home. So she in
her two inch heels starts walking the fuck home. And we're like by car, we're like two minutes away,
walking a feet, it would take her like an hour, probably more because she's in heels.
I, you know, I have a mini freak out because, you know, my sister's nearly in the middle of the
road trying to get over and she's walking the fuck out and she walks away from my car. And I'm
like yelling at her to come back. And then I start crying because I don't know what to do. I'm already
kind of panicked enough from the whole idea of the night. And so I tried to slowly drive after her.
She still yells at me. She's like, like, at the loudest top of a voice I've ever heard my sister,
I don't fucking know you. Get away from me. Just get the fuck. Everything, just everything. And so
I call my mom. I'm like, please, I'm like crying, like, please mom talk to Candice. She got out of
my car. She's walking home. Can you please tell her to get back in the car? blah, blah, blah.
And my mom can hear my sister yelling cursing at me. And it lasts for a few minutes. And there's
like cars driving by looking at us and stuff. And it's literally the middle of the night. It's like
12 30 something. And my mom finally calls my sister down has her get in the car. My sister gets in
the car. She yells at me to get him saying I'm only getting in the car because mommy told me to or
whatever. And then I'm in tears and shaken up because I'm like, I can't believe she fucking
did that. She purposely endangered herself. Because she's that fucking mad at me.
And was willing to walk home in the middle of the night. And
after like some calmness, my sisters like turned away from me and whatnot. And then my mom's like,
says something along the lines of we can't treat each other like this. We can't do this to each
other. We're better than this. And I'm thinking she's saying all that because of how my ugly,
my sister was and how she heard how ugly my sister was towards me. No.
But she wasn't saying that. What would she say? She was saying that towards me.
No, we can't be this way. See what the harm is causing. I'm like,
I didn't just fucking jump out of a moving car yelling at the top of my lungs at my sister.
Almost putting not her but myself in danger.
And you're saying I shouldn't be doing this to us. I felt like I wanted to faint.
I'm like, you don't respect me. You can do anything and everything towards me and act so
ugly in so many ways. And yet I'm still getting beat on. And I haven't done anything close not
even raised my voice to either of you and all of this. And you still beat me up with it.
I, I, I call I have to getting home and no being in my room. I called Oz and told him.
And yeah, it was a long night. That was pretty much it for me.
I'm actually lost for words here. I am shocked. It's also great that you have Oz to talk to
because I feel like Oz is the perfect person to talk to in those situations.
He's the only one I talked, spoke to and shared everything. Like I didn't record that because
I was too frantic and nervous and scared. But the beratement I received in the car
with all three of them as we're coming from the restaurant that evening to my mom's house,
I recorded it's like nearly an hour of my mom being racist, my mom saying all this shit she
wants to say everything. Interesting. And also my being ugly in that too.
What, I have some ideas myself, but why do you think your family is acting like this?
I never, I don't know if I truly identify it as this.
I know Oz has identified, especially after meeting them, that he feels my mother is narcissistic
and my sister is some level of control, manic person. I don't know if I can put a label on it or
I just know clearly that
it's they've always, for as long as I can remember, been manipulative and controlling.
You know, I, in the time, in that time, I was, I've been speaking with the therapist and everything
and I need to get back with her because now we're living this shit. I'm kind of needed to talk,
but, but I've been, I've been needing that for me anyways. I need, I need to
finally address things about me that I've ignored for years, but anyway.
I, I've spoken to you about this before, but I'm a huge advocate for, I think everyone should go
to therapy. I go now just for like a tune up every now and again just to get my thoughts in order.
I think it's super important, especially if you're going through what you're going through
and I think there's no shame in it.
No, and I certainly don't feel shame. I just, in the transition, the move and trying to adjust,
I just haven't got back to it and I need to and probably within the next week or so I definitely
will now that I've kind of have like some stavelness and feeling a lot less anxious than I was at the start.
I don't even, I don't even think, I don't even like that wording. I don't even think you need to.
I would just even say you don't even need to do anything, Jenna. You just need to be your
set, your own awesome self, but it will be helpful if you do go to therapy. It would make it make
things better. I think, yeah, that's definitely a better way to say that. Yeah, yeah, there's,
yeah, there's, sometimes life, especially in these like times can become so
so toxic in like mindsets, you know what I mean?
Things can become so
like intense. Every decision feels like the end of the world.
I think, I don't think, I think what you've done is great. It's good steps forward. Someone said
Indiana probably seems pretty fire.
It seems pretty fire.
I've enjoyed, I have experienced snow for the first time like two, three weeks ago and
I made, I made Oz play in the snow with me. No, he enjoyed it. He enjoyed it because he
simply enjoyed the fact that I looked and appeared happy and I was. I've never touched snow and to
feel it fall on my face and eat it and do all the stupid shit people do that never did snow before.
It was, I, I, it was so powerful that I
classically broke down and cried. I think actually he has a, he has a video of me on his phone
because he, he was like being cute and stuff and videoed me of my like.
Jenna's first experience with snow.
Well, you know, being funny and it was funny and it was, and once I like walked out of the
apartment building and felt the snow in my feet and falling and then I just heard like
silent wind and it feeling cold, but I didn't, and like all of that and all this rush of emotion,
both good and bad, just washed over me and I just kind of like bent over and started crying,
like weeping. And then I guess he. Wow. Yeah. It was crazy. It was just like.
Was it, was it nice snow or was it like, because I remember the first time Amy and I saw, well,
the first time Amy saw snow was on our honeymoon and we like pulled over when it was like sleeting
and it was like slush on the side of the road and we're picking up slush on the side of the road.
Like, wow. And Amy's like, and then when it actually did finally snow, we're in New Zealand
when it did finally snow. Amy went outside and she was like out there for ages and I was like,
it's too cold out there. So I was, I went out for a bit, but then she was literally out there for
like an hour sitting just in this like on the deck outside the snow and I'm like inside like
drinking wine by myself, like on my computer, on our honeymoon. I think I won't speak for Amy,
but I know for me and that experience and I can only imagine because we were out there for a while
too, because I wanted to be and he wanted for me to enjoy whatever the fuck I wanted to enjoy
about it until I got too fucking cold. Cause I kept, I didn't have like this man, his body temperature
is fucking ridiculous. Like he's hot all the time. So he doesn't have gloves. So I'm like,
how come you don't have gloves? Like I can't, and then I was like, fuck it, I'll just touch it
and whatever. And my hands got really cold. Anyway, I know for me the breakdown was
and I think I set the sim too. Like I'm, you know, realizing my age, realizing the hard work I did
put into like school, my career, things like that. And following a path that I know I didn't
completely set for myself and feeling like I've become so disconnected from me and not knowing
who me was. And now I'm in this place and making these choices for me about me and not for anyone
else, but what I want. And, and it's a whole new experience, just like experiencing the snow,
like having that realization of I'm here because this is different. I mean, it snows in certain
parts of California, but not where I lived. And so this new different feel just came rushing to me
and me realizing how much of my life I did not live. And that's what made me break down. Because
I finally felt like, oh, I'm, I'm living my life now. Yeah. How does it feel?
Real. Like, it's, it's not, it's not perfect in any way, shape or form. Like, you know, we,
me and Ozlyn on each other support each other, you know, we're solid, you know, as far as in our
relationship, we're, you know, but you know, the day to day, him with his work and me like
transitioning and getting used to my new job and managing a studio shared space.
It feels different, but I'm more relaxed and I don't feel like I have to be like or present a
certain way all the fucking time. It feels real. It feels like, oh, people do feel this struggle
on a day to day basis or oh, people do feel like, fuck it, they just do whatever they want without
second thinking about it. Like I had to all the, all the time constantly. Like, I can just walk the
fuck out or drink some wine or just not come home or come home or stay and all that. What the fuck
ever. And that feels real. It feels like what any normal human would do without even having to
really think about it. But I always thought about it. Yeah. It's amazing that, like, we take that
for granted, but like it's amazing that that is normal. Like for a 32 year old woman, but it's
like for you, it must be so new. I have a roommate who works in retail and he's like,
he kind of does the, um, the rosters and stuff. And he's like, oh, it's really good working for
our company because when someone asks for annual leave, I like, because we have, um, required
annual leave in Australia. If someone asks for annual leave, I let them take the holidays. So
I'm like, that's not like a, that's not a bonus. That's like the default. Like you're not doing
anything impressive there. You're just being like, you're so brainwashed by like the crappy company
you work for that. Like you think like basic riots are like a bonus. Like, or, um, if someone's sick
and they can't come in, I don't, I don't hold against them. Wow. Like amazing. Like, um,
okay. Yeah. Sure. Um, I didn't want to, sorry, what were you going to say? No, I,
no, I don't think I was saying anything. You're fine. Go ahead. I was, I was going to, um,
quickly mention, I, like, for, you know, we've got so many of your, um, your community here,
but for those who aren't subscribed, um, to Tang, um, I just want to shout out the channel. Um,
you guys are doing some really cool stuff coming up. I know, um, when, when you get back into the
swing of things, you've got your own kind of channel as well, black female atheist. Um, you're
not posting on there, but you like get tagged on there and you might post again in the future.
And of course, subscribe for some fun, um, tweets, uh, or follow Jenna on Twitter. That is,
that is, that is where to go. I love that you get like it's some flowers as your, uh,
Oh yeah. He, um, got me those flowers. Um, yeah. For, um, you know, celebrating me
working or, you know, just, it was just random and some things like he bought me a coffee one
morning, like during my first week of work and got me flowers. So, and he never bought me flowers
before. So I, I still have them. They're dried. So I guess his plan is to take me to like a home,
uh, craft store and put it in like a, uh, some type of clear, um, like frame or something.
Like resin, like a resin. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So Dave, the first flowers he ever got me.
Wow. Uh, also, uh, someone asked before, where's the super chat button? D asked. Um, we don't have
a super chat button because we don't have a thousand subscribers. We're trying really hard
to get a thousand subscribers. I am pumping out shorts every single day. I'm spending like
five hours editing a short every day now, um, because I'm on maternity leave. So I'm editing,
then I do bottle feeding, then I do nappies and I do like, and, uh, so if you want to see this channel,
um, uh, have super chats and make it a bit more easy for me to financially support
the copious amounts of alcohol I buy. Uh, and also, uh, getting some more important guests
that I might be doing some traveling around to do some, um, in-person interviews,
subscribe, uh, if you like kind of this content. And also I see so many regulars on here. When we
do do the charity stream, I'd love to have, you know, you guys on like doorknob head,
be like, all you guys that come on regularly, I'd love to have you guys on to just kick it and
just hang out and just chat. And of course, deep drinks is available on Spotify as well. If you're
like listening, um, to the show as well. But, um, I'm a fan. I know. So you're so, you're one of the
biggest supporters ever. It's, um, it's amazing. Uh, I did, another thing I wanted to kind of get
your thoughts on is I wanted to know if we, have you got, have you got enough time I could show
a quick clip before we jump into an A? Yeah. Um, there is, let me just find it. I have all night.
I was just getting the kids are asleep. Awesome. So there is this, um, let me just,
there is this, uh, channel called dark matter two, five, two, five. They've got 700,
60, yeah, you know, you know, I'm right. Um, so this video, I don't know. It's now this video is
11 years old. This video really helps me understand why a lot of the Christians in my life were
taking such a harsh reaction when they found out that I was even questioning my faith. Um,
but, uh, so I wanted to show this. I wanted to kind of, it's only six minutes and we can kind
of like talk about it afterwards, but I just wanted to show this is to get everyone's opinion.
I love to hear what chat thinks about this as well, because this, this video was really
big for me. It's kind of a series. Therisa is attracted to Anthony. She asks Anthony out on a
date. Anthony isn't interested. Maybe he isn't attracted to her or he's married for whatever
reason he declines. Was Therisa rejected? Yes. When someone is rejected, they're prone to feel
despair and frustration. Typically she'll feel resentment and anger toward Anthony. The rejection
affected the dopamine and cortisol activity in her brain, which can actually cause physical pain.
Some short-term effects of this rejection are aggressiveness and antisocial behavior.
This type of emotional reaction can also explain why atheists are one of the most hated groups of
people. Therisa is a theist and a billboard reminded her that atheists exist or perhaps
Therisa discovered that her acquaintance Anthony is an atheist or Therisa is in an argument with
Anthony about the existence of God. Any one of these things can cause Therisa to feel despair
and frustration. Typically she'll feel resentment and anger toward Anthony.
Because of this, she may even exhibit aggressiveness and antisocial behavior.
As you can see, there is a fascinating parallel between the typical reaction of someone who is
romantically rejected and the typical reaction of a theist who encounters an atheist.
But the parallel is practically shouted from the rooftops as the theist
actually describes the atheist's disbelief as rejection. The atheist rejects God, they say.
It is no coincidence that the theist chooses the word rejection because there is a disconnect
between the inaccurate use of the word rejection to describe the atheist's position and the theist's
reaction which coincides with the exact same symptoms of rejection, thereby compelling them
to use that word even though it's inaccurate. The inaccuracy can be easily seen from the
romantic perspective. The analogy would look like this. Therisa tries to set Anthony up on a blind
date with Gloria. Anthony doesn't think that Therisa even knows Gloria or that she's acting as an
agent on Gloria's behalf. Did Anthony actually reject Gloria? No. What if Anthony doesn't even
believe that Gloria exists? Perhaps Therisa described her as being too attractive, described
her personality as too perfect to be believable. So if Anthony doesn't believe Gloria actually
exists, did he reject her even if she does exist? No. All Gloria would need to do is show up and
ask Anthony in person for him to accept. Or perhaps Therisa described Gloria inaccurately.
Is Anthony rejecting the real Gloria or the inaccurate portrayal of Gloria which doesn't
actually exist even though she does? In all accounts Anthony is not actually rejecting Gloria
and in all accounts Therisa would have no reason to feel rejected at all. So why then does the
theist typically show the classic signs of rejection and even misuse the word rejection
when encountering an atheist? Because Gloria is Therisa. The believer is God. Your relationship
with God is actually a profound dynamic relationship with this self, with your ego. It is why God
knows you so well. It is why his opinions are so often your opinions and why a different believer
of the same God as yours can claim that he agrees with God's opinions, but not yours. It is why God
can seem so very real to you because he is real. He is you. And believer before you deny this ask
yourself are you truly in a position to be able to deny it?
This confusion of skepticism with rejection has caused the persistence of Christianity's
fundamental flaw, a foundational flaw that has fatally detrimental implications for the religion.
The religion itself is based on a false dichotomy, the notion that you must either choose God
or reject him, but belief is not a choice. It's a compulsion beyond the realm of choice
achieved through convincing arguments, evidence, and trust. I do not choose what I believe because
I perceive it as the more attractive option. I'm compelled to believe what I think is true,
whether I like it or not, because desirability is not a requisite of the truth. This takes
honest introspection. To truly make a choice, I must clearly be given the option. If I can doubt
whether the option even exists, then the option hasn't been clearly presented to me, thereby
preventing me from being able to make a choice. An omniscient God would easily see this flaw
in his system, but God isn't omniscient. He only seems that way because somehow,
someway, he knows exactly how to answer your doubts. He knows exactly how you think.
Then if you were paying attention, then you'd know exactly why that is.
It's been a while since I've even recalled that. That is very powerful stuff because I
love Dr. Radha. Breaking it down so fantastically like that is like,
to share this to every fucking theorist, they would get that someone's in the sepia town,
please, because he's fucking annoying. Anyway, the most capturing of it all
is something I know I've dealt with, or not dealt with, thought about, the notion of,
when he mentions the introspection. I felt that for me, I know I do a lot of introspecting.
That introspection metamorphizes itself to me being very overly critical of me. I always
am very apologetic of certain actions I may take to a person, and I'm very cautious in how I speak,
or how I portray myself, or who I talk to. I'm very socially introverted,
so all that jazz. Introspection for me is not difficult, but I recognize how immensely difficult
it is for my mother and sister. That's what caught me because their introspection
is prayer. Their introspection is relying on God and feeling as if they are being directed
to what their God is directing them to. Then, just based on the whole beginning of that,
it's like it said, it's just a metamorphosize you thinking that you need to be this way,
because this is how you're interpreting your faith for you, even though the next person
is going to interpret it differently, and they may fucking go the same church as you.
At the time that you sent me this video, where I was dealing with a lot of heavy stuff,
it allowed me to then critically think about, okay, why is it that I'm feeling like I'm repeating
myself so much to my mother and my sister, saying the same shit, relaying the same information.
It's unchanged. At this point, I have nothing else to hide. The only thing I have hidden from them
is the fact that I do YouTube stuff, and I will remain to hide that because that is my safe haven.
This is where I demonstrate my authentic self, and I want them nowhere near that. I don't want that
to be muddy, so I'll never, ever, ever fucking tell them this. In all that, I know and understand more
of why my mother never quote-unquote understood me, never took the time to actually listen or hear
my words or even allowed me to speak. At the same interim, my sister, always feeling that she
always feeling that she was more superior and right, and that I don't know why it's so
difficult for me to follow along. I often thought also, me and my sister being not that far in age,
raised the same for a certain important period of our time, dressed the same for church, that is,
and being told and raised all of what our parents instilled in us, why did I come out different?
Oh yeah, that video touches on a lot of me.
We need, is there any software developers or web developers that are in the chat that could maybe
need an atheist to design a decision tree, so it's like, you can put in all your things,
so it's like, why don't you believe it? It has your answer, and then they've got options,
they can ask, and it just tells them the same things that you've asked right down to the corner.
Like it. So, when I came on Tang, you made up this rumor that I wanted to freestyle with Oz.
I didn't think it was a rumor, I thought it was true, but okay.
It was definitely not true, and I definitely made a fool of myself. It definitely made me very humble.
I didn't realize the ego that I had until I was humbled by how bad my freestyle was,
but so I'm wanting to return the favor and ask you if you could show us a little bit of praise
dancing. Can you show us some moves? Just one move, you don't even have to get up, just show us
like, what would it look like to praise dancing? Oh god, I'm so glad I don't have any recordings of
that at all. Thank you, Jesus. It's so weird, I'm trying to recall something, you know,
mildly pleasant. The whole movement of hands is important, like this, and then going like that,
or whatever, I'm like, okay, I'm done. Did you do, did you do, did you have prayer flags in your
church? No, we had prayer bells, so basically a team of eight or nine people would learn to play
these, like, they're kind of like those big holiday bells, they sound really like nice,
they did. You know, we had that, and of course the praise dancing, and we did competitive
choir festivals, I was a part of that shit too, harvest festivals, youth conferences,
all that stuff. That's so cool. Okay, well, let's jump into some Q&A, if anyone's got
any questions they want to ask, now it's time to ask them. First question I want to ask is,
I just thought of this as we're having conversation, what advice would you give to someone
who has a family member who is deconstructing, maybe they're a Christian or something,
what advice would you give to someone to help them best understand that person deconstructing?
Stop talking and listen. Okay. Because, especially in the beginning, it was very,
it's typical from what we've, you know, as creators and, you know, listen to debates or
conversations or, you know, open streams, things like that, where, you know, the typical ideas would
say, like, why are you so angry with God, or what did God do to you, or how, you know,
how did God not reveal himself, things like that. And, you know, that's the kind of like
line of questioning. I remember I actually recorded this kind of back and forth conversation about
religion that I had with my sister, like a couple of nights after my initial coming out to them.
She wanted to understand why I didn't believe anymore and what happened.
And like I was saying, kind of like, well, how come she still believes and I don't,
like, we'll go phrase the same, all that good stuff. Thank you for the sibling.
So, yeah, I, if you really want, if you, you know, if you genuinely want to understand the
person that's deconstructing or potentially de-converting or has already de-converted,
just shut up, shut the fuck up in this incident. It's, it don't walk into it with your perceived
notion of, oh, something traumatic must have happened, because it could be some of the time
that nothing traumatic really happened to that person. They just was like, I don't believe this
shit, moving the fuck on. It could be as simple as that, or it can be as detrimental or traumatic
as anything. Maybe not even near close to what I went through. But, you know, we can not, we,
we all can never really walk in our own shoes or walk in each other's shoes,
but we can empathize. We can strive to be as empathetic as possible to at least allow, allow
that person to be heard and understood. Because if you don't allow room for that,
then they're always going to feel like they should have just kept this to themselves. They,
they would have felt a lot safer. They would have not felt that someone or some people are judging
them or perceiving them in a way that they're not. Like, because I was immediately perceived as, oh,
you know, devil worshiping, even though I was like, I don't believe in the devil,
that's not a direct dichotomy, mother. It's like, it's like, have you seen that? It's like a,
it's like a thread, it's like a meme. It's like, someone says, like, Satanists don't believe in
Satan, and someone asks, like, well, who believes in Satan? And then the Church of Satan comments
and says Christians, who believes in a little Satanist, like Christians? Oh, you're allowing,
you're allowing Satan to motivate you to not believe in God. I'm like, no, because I don't
fucking believe in that thing. Like, no, that's not a thing. So yeah, to be short, shut up and listen,
allow them to express who they are. Because everyone's different. Everyone goes through
this differently. Everyone comes out of it differently. But the trauma and feeling like
you're being judged or not heard or ostracized. I mean, it's, it's different characters in the
storybook, but it's the same story. Okay. That's a great answer is thanks to everyone. I see
everyone encouraging and posting in the comments. Thank you everyone for subscribing and sharing
on these socials. I really appreciate it. Trying to get to a thousand subscribers and
it goes a long way. So thank you. What is the best advice you've ever been given?
I generally have to critically think about this because sometimes I don't allow myself to listen
to myself. Is it maybe read this book? Well, I mean, I definitely listen to my mother in the
situation brought a book to jury duty and Reddit. So it is, it is, it is one of my favorite books.
In fact, Atlas, Atlas is full name, my new born Atlas Christopher McDonald Christopher after
the author Christopher Hitchens and my middle name. So very big fan of that book.
Very nice. Yeah. I mean, sure, I'll take a page out of out of my toxic mother's book and say
that was the best advice bring a book to jury duty and I did and there you go. I became an
atheist. There you go, mom. No, I'll, I'll if I genuinely, I would say
and Oz actually often tells me this all the time. Be kinder to yourself. I am very much
very hard still am. I'm getting a little better, but I'm very critical and very hard on myself.
I don't, I, I almost allow myself almost zero room of forgiveness when it comes to
expectations, things I should have done. Oh, I should have got back into this person. Oh,
I should have created this stream. Oh, I should have done this or I should have done that or
things that I feel like I could have control of, but I don't. And I, I, and most times
realistically don't have control of and I still blame myself or yeah, I'm, yeah.
But I, I didn't want to sound like a dick before when I said, don't say, like,
putting up a need thing, but I just noticed that with your terminology, it's, it's,
you was like, I should have done this. I need to do this. I have to do this.
And I know Oz were back in this. You don't have to do shit. You just need to be happy.
And those exact words. Yeah, exactly. That's why I said it like that, because I knew it nearly
like that. It's, it's, it's, it's, because I used to do the same thing I used to, I used to go to my,
I used to go to my psychologist and say, I didn't say that. I'd say it's bad. Oh, it's really bad
that I did this. It's so bad. I, I'm eating so poorly. I'm, I'm doing a bad job. And he'd say,
you'd always pull him go, no, no, it's just not helpful to your greater goals in life.
And I'm like, okay, and it took a while to learn that. I think, I think that's something
you should not to tell you what, how to live your life. But I think you deserve to just
not have to shoot anything, not have to need to do anything and just drink more wine, have
relax, because you are, you're perfect just the way you are.
Someone asks, what is an atheist?
It's whatever you think or make as for yourself an atheist is. I can't tell you how to
atheists are fucking motto on our channel is atheist your way.
Hmm. So do you, so for someone who maybe is like, like, who doesn't know what atheists is at all,
like they're like, a lot of people have this assumption that atheism is like the perspective
that there definitely is no God. And some people think it's just like meh. So what, what do you
think atheism is for you personally in regards to, do you think it's like a hard stance that there is
no God, or do you think it's just not being convinced of the evidence that there is no God,
or do you think? I wouldn't say it's a hard stance, but I honestly, it's in this spot where I've,
I've, it's so weird because most of my thoughts as far as my anxieties of life is more focused on,
you know, pleasing and not pleasing my family or feeling that I'm doing things the right way,
either for myself or others. Like I hardly ever really consider what it means for me to be
atheist or what that means to me personally. Like, am I a hard atheist? Am I a soft atheist?
Am I don't take no shit from nobody atheist in your face or not in your face? I don't know.
I, I just see my, yeah. It's, it's fun. Yeah, I know, because it's, it's like, um,
atheism is like a belief like abstinence is a sex position. It's like, I'm just not engaging.
It's like, it's, it's, yeah. Like I engage for the purpose of, you know, the channel,
I engage for the purpose of, you know, making certain content more known. That's not really
as known, especially being a black female. Like that's always been my drive. And I always say,
I've always have said since starting out small and putting my voice, voice and face out there to
now, I've always said, I just need to reach one person. I just want for one person to feel like
they can relate and they can see my strength and my struggle through all of this. And even,
especially when I, before I came out where I was a closeted atheist and people knew me that way.
And they could look at me and say, well, she's approaching it this way. She's striving to find,
I'm still striving to find myself, ask questions, things like that. Now that I'm open,
I'm still on that path for someone to see, okay, now you've heard my story tonight,
you've heard what I've gone through dealt with. It was horrible. There were times where I just
wanted to feel like dying, like, and I say that lightly. And I shouldn't say that lightly, but
genuinely, in certain moments, I felt like it would just be best that I'm not here.
And the panic attacks were so extreme. And to where I physically could not feel like
I could make it certain days. It was hard. And I wasn't ever physically abused,
but it physically took a toll on my day to day to where I'm just trying to make it
to get out of here to be with the man that I love and to finally feel free. Like I'm really just
trying to be there. It's like, okay, another two months, or another two weeks, or another day.
It was literally a day by day, mental psych me out of saying, you're gonna, you're gonna make it,
you're having this breakdown right now, but you're gonna make it. It was, it was difficult.
And I can tell you the stories, like he was the only person I would tell and, you know,
could have for him for being so fucking patient and they're, he's amazing. And I know when people
initially look at him and see his content or hear him, like he, he's in your face. But he's
only that way if you deserve it. He's the sweetest, gentlest, cuddliest person. Like
you need someone in your corner. He's the guy. Yeah, he truly is. Yeah, really. And I just happened
to have the benefit of dating the man. Yeah. I'll ask this last question, just swimming
to the stream and drag on too long. If you could give yourself, if you go back in time and give
yourself advice, both when you were deconstructing and, and when you were telling your family,
what would that be?
Find your outlets. There were many times where I felt very trapped, especially in situations where
I knew that this was going to grow to be something really traumatic and toxic.
Definitely find better defenses for myself or, you know, fight for me. I went throughout that
whole process not fighting for me. I, like I said, I'd never raised my voice. I never talked back.
I provided as best answers I could when they asked me certain things. I am proud that I
did it on my terms that I wasn't outed. I did it in the moment where, okay, I'm going to go in
to this place in this moment at this time and come out and say it. And I did. And I'm grateful
that I did as, and it's not like I was hugely prepared. You're never fucking prepared. That
shit is scary as shit. It's fucking scary. And it didn't make me feel immediately good
at all after. I feel a great relief knowing that I did do that and now I'm here and I'm living life,
but I'm still struggling. I haven't talked to my mom, my sister for like maybe a week and a half,
almost two, which is unusual. And, you know, I can only put out so much effort to initiate
something and I don't get it. But yeah, keep it brief. I would say, you know, find my outlets and
defend yourself because you don't deserve these attacks. You didn't do anything wrong.
And they don't deserve for me to always bend over backwards.
I really hope Amy is still watching. She would pick up so much from that and she would agree with
the always being the one that has to reach out to family, at least for a while. It's
here now, almost every and Amy, if you're listening, I sit here on a daily basis,
like either doing work or preparing a stream or even, you know, eating something or
I sit here in certain moments where I feel like my phone goes off and it's not from them.
And I have a brief two seconds of thinking, you guys should text them.
Maybe I should say good morning. Maybe I should say hi. Maybe I should say I love you.
Every fucking day, I have, there has been one day I haven't relented.
These are trained behaviors, like you build up.
I remember I gave up smoking and I hadn't smoked for a few weeks.
And I actually quit on Amy's birthday 12 years ago because she had this list of the perfect guy
back when she was a teenager. And the only thing on there that like everything she wanted
in a guy was like something you did at church. And the thing, the one thing was a non-smoker,
like one of those and that's the only thing I didn't. So anyway, long story short, I end up
giving up on her birthday. But I remember when I got in the car for the first time again,
because I used to always smoke in the car. I was like, I like it. All those feelings came back.
It's because it's a learned behavior. So you see your text, your phone, and you're like,
Oh, maybe I should text or I'm just habit. Yeah. Well, Jenna,
I'll actually, I lied. I'll ask one more question. If you give advice to someone else who's
thinking of coming out to their family, they want to take the plunge. What would you say?
Um, well, I see Erin's question. I'll answer that really quick. What am I excited for this year?
I'm excited for better. Oh, yes.
I'll briefly kind of go over that. And we're in the next week or so or this coming week,
we're going to make a stream making all the announcements, all the goodies about it. So
I'm excited for those plans and just, you know, being fucking here and, you know, and
around June, that's when Oz will have his lease up at this place and we get to move into the
place that we want to be. So that's exciting too. It's a lot this year. Just, you know,
just experience all new shit. But to your question, what advice have I got with someone coming out?
Um, I would say because taking into consideration my deconstruction process was about six to seven
years long. And me being a cause of the atheists last about three to four years.
And every other person that was out telling me, oh, why am I waiting or you should or,
or maybe you do it this way, or maybe you do it that way, or just don't give a fuck and just
not go to church or pretend that you're going to church. And yeah, that was something I did for
a while. Like pre COVID, I pretended to still be about it and not be all in it and just feeling
disgusted at the end of the day. I would, I would have to put on the show, put on that mass and go
to church because that's what my family did. And I had to just comply with that because I wasn't
out and I wanted to keep the peace and I wasn't ready to come out. And I for a time told myself,
convinced myself that I never would. And even if you still feel that whoever's listening to this,
even if you still feel that now, that's okay because you never know what could change that for you
just as long as you are capable of coming out on your own terms. No matter how prepared or
unprepared you are, make sure you do it and do it for you because whether it turns out
more in your favor and your family is like more loving and forgiving and understanding by surprise
or it can be just as ugly as my experience was, you know, give yourself the time to find your own
safe place and community and support first. That's what I needed. I didn't, when starting out, I didn't
have friends or people to converse with in real time. I grew and have that now. I felt the love
and support of knowing where I could fall back if I needed someone to catch me. Having that
and then being able to do and come out in my own terms allowed me to finally come out.
No matter how long it takes you
and do it for you. That's great advice. That's fantastic advice.
Jenna, it's been an absolute pleasure having you on. Thank you so much. I look forward to
being on more shows and creating content with you again in the future and seeing where Tang goes.
Oh, it's so good. Maybe we can bully, we could both bully my wife enough to come on to a show
one time. I'm sure she'll eventually give in. She can't say no to you. Thanks everyone for
coming out. I really appreciate it and we'll see you all next week as we talk to Michael Granado
about his PhD thesis on time. How's it changed? What is time? It's going to be a weird one.
It's going to be a scientific one. It's going to be one where I'm scratching my head and hopefully
you as well, or maybe not. Anyway, thank you guys. See you later and see you next time. Bye.
you
