වවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවව
සොගීيعිහ වවව�合 සුහවවවවව඀වවවව
වවව සෙහව඀ව඀器. 可以力解
සෙවවවවවවවවවවව඀ව඀ව඀වව඀වවවවවව඀඀ව integr�හවවවවව�าවවවවව඀඀඀වවවවවMOches
spirituality
hey get everyone assistance if we can
we going to introduce it
because I just need to celebrate with somebody.
So first of all, my guest is Miss Lemon.
So why do some of us fall so strongly
for conspiracy theories, cults and conmen?
Miss Lemon is a content creator
and teacher currently living in South Korea.
Miss Lemon's content is, among other things,
focused around social studies, psychology and beliefs,
along with a few food challenges.
Miss Lemon is currently completing her master's
in psychology,
plays a half-orc in Dungeons and Dragons
and is a radically good critical thinker.
So with that said, I'd like to welcome Miss Lemon.
Welcome to D3's podcast.
Hello, thanks for having me on.
I was super excited for you too.
Well, yeah, I said I wanted to bring you on
because it feels weird to be just celebrating by myself
while you're in the back room.
But we, just so everyone is aware,
this morning I went on a panel
to kind of promote this new,
my channel a little bit
and it blew up this channel in subscribers.
And many of them are here right now.
So I mean, thank you everyone for coming along.
It's really, it really don't want to get emotional,
but it overwhelmed me with happiness.
So if you can see the little thing at the bottom,
we see the 1000 subscriber charity stream.
So when we had Fei on, it looked like this.
And then Jenna and then Michael
and then tonight's episode,
we have blown it out.
We have blown it out of the water.
It's like, thank you so much to Derek
from MythVision podcast
and everyone who came onto that panel
and Dr. Josh for helping me set up everything.
It's been absolutely overwhelming
and I am so grateful.
I hope I can be the best host possible.
The reason this was important,
which I'll explain later.
And the reason I went on this panel
is because it was kind of a promotion panel
for a panel that we will be disclosing
that many of you may already know about
that we'll be announcing later in this stream
that was such a big kind of,
it was so big
and I knew that we're gonna get such a large audience for it
that I wanted to have the ability to get super chats
so that I could actually find questions
that were relevant to the panel.
So it was hugely beneficial.
So thank you everyone for coming out,
thank you everyone for coming out to this
different time that we normally do it.
We're both in the Southern Hemisphere
so we can be up at a reasonable time doing this
instead of like six in the morning.
So, hey.
Yeah, we're over here in this side of the world,
a little north of the land for me,
but the Southern of the Korea Peninsula at least, yeah.
So I've got the winter, you've got the summer, so.
I've got my cold hands.
Yeah, we're boiling down here,
like we have the air con on like all the time, like 24 seven
and because I love the cold, I hate the heat,
but so Miss Lemon, first before we jump into it,
what are we drinking today?
We are drinking non-alcoholic beer,
David was kind enough to oblige,
so thank you very much for that.
I've got a Cousel, go ahead.
We do non-alcoholic beer sometimes,
non-alcoholic beer is good.
Yeah, some people are weird about it, I don't know,
so I still, you know, when you stop, you had like,
you know, you got people that,
they treat you a little different.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You know, so it's like, and I'm not, that's all right.
I'm the same sober and drunk
and the benefit of me and my chronic migraine
sometimes slurred my words anyway, so.
Yeah, awesome.
Get the full effect, yeah, oh yeah.
So let's crack it open and celebrate your 1.01K,
cheers to that, what's it, cheers big ears, I know that.
That's it, that's an Australian term.
So we went from like 600 subscribers
or 650 subscribers to over a thousand
and it's just, it's been overwhelming.
It's been, yeah, honestly, I've been grinding so hard
in the last few days, putting together this panel.
Every waking moment when I'm not taking care
of our new baby boy Atlas has been focused on
making sure I can be the best host I can be
for this panel and putting together information
and things like that, so I'm super excited.
I should probably, you know what,
I'll talk so much about this panel.
Let me just, before we jump into the interview,
let me just actually find,
let me just get the trailer ready
so and show everyone what's going on.
Thank you everyone for your congratulations.
So,
so I have no, well actually, I say this,
I do know how I pulled it off, it was Dr. Josh.
So everyone knows we wanna do panels this year,
we wanna have panels on Deep Drinks podcast
and I messaged Josh and I said,
Josh, like, I'm so sick of seeing these slavery apologists
and making slavery look okay.
It kind of bothers me that people like,
can you come on and we'll just focus on
just a stream purely on slavery, like go to resource.
And he said, do you want me to bring Kip on?
And I was like, oh no,
I like to have one-on-one interviews on Deep Drinks.
And I thought, hang on, no, we're gonna be doing panels.
And I was like, yeah, let's do a panel.
All of a sudden, Dr. Josh is making,
like calls for me, he's doing the rounds
and we have the dream team, the panel of experts,
of five Bible scholars, all PhDs talking about slavery
and we'll be addressing all the apologists
that people can mention on this.
So here's the teaser for this.
The Bible
So I put that together quickly
and because I wanted to just promote it,
but this will be the go-to panel for slavery in the Bible.
And we'll be talking about what was this kind of slavery
that was in the Bible, was there slavery in the Bible?
Was it just in servitude?
Was it like happier slavery
where you get tickled before you go to bed
and like you can leave whenever you want?
We'll also be directly addressing the works
of Jordan Peterson, Frank Turick, William Lane Craig,
GotQuestions.com, Waik Winger, John McCrae,
Ellen Parr, Paul Kopin, Douglas Wilson
and the Answers in Genesis.
We are going to have answers for each one of their sloppy
apologetics.
So with all that said, thank you again for coming on.
I know this is sorry about the self-promotion.
No, no, no, no, definitely, for sure.
So we met, how do we meet?
We met on Twitter, right?
When someone said something about D&D
and I said that I'm a half-hawk and you said me too.
That's it.
So we met on Twitter, right?
When someone said something about D&D
and I said that I'm a half-hawk
and you said me too.
Finally, yes, it's got to be it, man.
I like to play a half-work bard, so that's something.
Oh, nice.
Yeah, because I figure if I already get the bonuses to strength,
I could just almost something anyway.
I don't need to be a barbarian on top of it.
I may as well get some music going.
Tell a tale and then have fun with it.
Are you a promises stream?
Isn't it about Dungeons and the Dragons?
No, it is.
You've been doing it.
No, it is.
You've been tricked.
That's what it is.
So are you in a campaign at the moment,
playing Dungeons and the Dragons in a campaign?
No, gosh, it's been about a year or so.
Unfortunately, yeah.
It's hard.
There's actually almost,
I've never seen tabletop for Korean players.
A lot of stuff is here is exclusively esports.
But even when you go to a gaming shop
and you think there's going to be a table
where people are painting minis and stuff.
No, it's just not there.
They sell minis.
Oh, really?
Yeah, it's something.
You got these blind boxes and stuff
for Pokemon, which is great.
I do Pokemon as well.
If you guys want to add me a Pokemon goal,
let me know.
I played Pokemon Go.
This is so good.
Nerding out.
That's it.
Perfection.
You've been tricked conspiracies.
No.
It's just a bunch of gaming and nonsense.
But yeah.
I mean, if you want to do that, that's there.
There's some paint that they sell.
That's kind of it.
There's no table.
There's no magic to gather.
There's nothing.
Which by the way,
we know the red deck and the black deck.
We know those are the best decks.
I stupid goblin and wall deck.
I never got into magic gathering.
I want to.
Was it to Satanic?
No, no.
I got into Yu-Gi-Oh.
I chose that route.
That's like the wrong starter Pokemon.
Yeah, exactly.
It's like PC, Mac, and Linux.
It's like I chose Linux,
but if Linux had none,
it would be perfect.
Yeah, exactly.
Bad animation.
Yeah.
In another life, I was a game developer.
I still teach game development
in another realm.
I haven't done it for a while,
but we could no doubt for ages on games.
We might do that in this room.
Yeah, we might end up doing that.
Beers might actually be alcoholic,
but probably not.
Yeah, I mean, there's a little bit in there.
I don't know.
You're tired enough to be a lightweight.
Yeah, exactly.
I wanted to talk to you a little bit
about conspiracy theories.
I wanted to get your perspective on them
because on your channel,
you actually go through the psychology
of a conspiracy theorist.
Yeah, that's a recent video.
I did.
I love doing this master's degree thing.
I had no idea about it.
Nobody in my family has done any secondary,
post-secondary, none of that.
I had no idea.
I got called about,
do you want to do an honor society?
I don't even know what that is.
I'm loving it.
I'm taking one class at a time
just because I'm a full-time teacher.
I also do some tutoring on the side.
It's a blast because you have to be a dork,
which I love.
Of course.
You have to,
you like to watch your documentaries
and look up stuff, whatever.
This, I have to do it.
I have to sit through like 20 different
papers and stuff.
And those are the ones that work for my paper.
I have to read through all this other stuff.
So it's really exciting.
And I figure since I'm putting in
all this effort anyway,
maybe just add it to my channel.
So why not?
So yeah,
I've done some stuff about cults
and conspiracy theories
as a way to deal with like a public health
or social health issue.
So I thought,
why not conspiracy theories,
especially with the whole pandemic situation
and just how that kind of backfired
with things like the vaccine,
but also just our approach to it too.
A lot of people were under the impression
that a vaccine was 100% effective.
And I thought,
who told you that?
And they're like,
oh, Dr. Fauci did.
Did they really?
I mean,
if they told you that,
that's wrong.
Like nobody should tell you that.
So if you wear a mask,
it's 100% effective.
No, it's not.
Who lied to you?
So if,
yeah,
if people are lying to them about this,
yeah,
they're,
they're in the wrong too.
So
a big one,
a big one that I hear with the vaccine is like,
remember it was only meant to be one vaccine.
And it's like, who?
Like it's like,
it's like,
I don't know who,
like what medical journals they're reading that are saying,
oh,
it's only ever going to be like,
it just seems like they get caught up in the news cycle.
And they think that,
that someone who's pro vaccine is on the left.
So the news cycles of those people on the left would be like,
like, you know,
but they say that,
oh,
it's only one at this stage.
And then like that's,
that's as good as a scientific journal.
It's not.
So,
yeah.
So we,
we have a little bit of history about myself and yourself with the COVID-19 vaccine.
So when,
when there was the second wave coming really badly,
I remember being in Australia was driving down the driving down the main street
and everyone was supposed to be wearing masks.
And by the way,
for those who watch Fox news,
we were not locked up in our houses.
It wasn't like a,
like in some,
some parts of the city,
like it was,
the lockdowns were pretty bad,
but it wasn't like,
like people think it was like a,
like a,
can't leave your house.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It wasn't like that.
Like you could go out and exercise and things like that.
But it was,
we did some like,
we did some lockdowns and they work for a while,
but there was this one time I went down to like the main street and like no one was wearing masks.
And everyone was like in the restaurants together,
just like chatting.
And I made a prediction that pissed off a lot of people.
And I said,
I said,
my prediction is we're fucked.
Like we're going to have a huge wave.
And then everyone got really angry.
And sure enough,
we got a huge wave.
So I created my friend,
my friend did all the work.
I tried to do the marketing.
He did a really good job.
I did a pretty poor job,
but we created this website called safeandvaxx.com
to try and like remove some of the fear tactics around those horrible,
horrible vaccine stories that you hear.
And I'll just,
so what people could do is they could upload a photo of themselves and it would go to this Instagram
and tag it with safeandvaxx.
So people could like show,
hey, like this is me.
I'm safe.
I got the vaccine and nothing bad happened.
Like I'm safe and vaxxed.
But for you,
you were in South Korea and everything was going swell, wasn't it?
Oh yeah.
Until?
Until.
Yeah,
I was actually out of the country.
I was,
I was in,
there's a US territory nearby called Guam.
And so I was,
I was there and I,
you know,
it's like you're asking your friends back in Korea,
hey,
I'm fixing to come back.
What do you want?
You know,
what kind of souvenir,
something to eat or t-shirt or whatever.
And everybody said masks.
Just like,
what am I going to come home to?
What?
Okay,
that's kind of weird,
but sure.
So as I'm looking around,
I can't find any.
Some other people already bought them like out of the,
whether it was a Kmart that's still there,
I guess,
you know,
Target would be an equivalent or Walmart's an equivalent,
but they still have Kmart there.
Yeah.
There was no,
no pharmacies had it.
None of the other tourist destinations that sell small,
small,
pharmacy equipment stuff,
none of them had it.
And I just thought everybody wants this and nobody has it.
What's,
what's happening?
You know,
so I come back and pretty,
pretty shortly after the new,
that the school kind of starts back up,
we're now locked down and,
and that was interesting.
I was pretty upset right away because it became known that this
religious cult called Shin Chun Ji,
it's like a Christian extreme group.
So for them,
they're really big in a faith healing and that means if you're sick,
you go to church,
you don't go to the hospital and wearing masks and seeking medical help is considered like a show of lack of faith.
So you want to sit with your,
your congregation and pray.
And that was the problem was everybody's together and,
praying in close quarters.
And so of course more people get it.
So when this,
when this had happened,
people got pretty upset and eventually the government was like,
we need a list of the people in your congregation so we can test them,
but they didn't want to be blamed for the pandemic.
So they didn't release it and the government's like,
you know, we have ways of making you talk,
you know, that kind of thing.
Like we can legally obtain this,
this stuff just help us out so we can,
you know,
we don't have to write all the paperwork and stuff to obtain it.
And they were like,
no, no, no,
we don't want to be associated with spreading the pandemic,
which of course made them more associated with spreading the pandemic.
So then we ended up getting it because we just got it in all different towns
because these are not like a ton of huge churches in a bunch of different areas.
So if you,
you're part of this congregation,
you typically have to travel a bit to get to a central location.
And then everybody goes back to their respective cities after,
after church is over.
We also had another outbreak because of another church.
So these churches were still meeting.
Eventually they had to put a ban on churches congregating.
They could of course still hold it over, you know,
online, like on zoom,
you just couldn't congregate anymore.
So this church had decided that they had holy water that was also salt water.
I don't know why it couldn't just be fresh water,
holy water was salt water apparently, you know.
So what they did was they stuck the knot.
Yeah, specifically salt water.
So they would stick the nozzle in your mouth and spray it.
And then to the next person stick the nozzle in their mouth and spray it.
Good. Good. Yeah.
Yeah.
And so suddenly we got more.
So that was exciting.
Do they,
do they reject the germ theory of disease?
Are they that far away?
Are they that far into the conspiratorial mindset that they're like,
we don't believe in germs.
Like this is devils that we're casting out or are they kind of.
Yeah, as far as I, as far as I understand,
I didn't hear anything about that specifically.
I think it gave me more the impression of the Christian science group,
the group that just really rejects any kind of formal medical care
and just focuses totally on faith.
So I don't know if it's necessarily the devil is making you sick
or rely on God to make you well.
So I guess it's, it was not, not a great time.
Ratsa asked, just got here is a Mr. Bunch,
but is this the same cult that is active in Japan?
You might be thinking the arm shiriko,
the one that did the,
what was it the anthrax thing?
Is that the one you're talking about the anthrax one in the nineties?
Oh, I don't know.
I know kind of, I know like, I've heard that story.
I know that there, I did, I did a little bit of Googling of this,
this the church slash cult.
And I saw they were popping up in Sydney and like places in Australia,
like, I don't know if you want to show the website.
Actually, I don't know if they're the ones that were involved in
Abe's murder.
That was, that was such a weird one.
That was such a, that was a wow.
That was a wow moment.
I still didn't really did that.
The website won't load for me.
So, oh, interesting.
Oh, God just doesn't,
doesn't want us to make fun of his people.
It worked again.
So here's the.
Oh, the devil is at it again.
So it looks like a normal church, right?
Like it looks like a Hillsong esque.
Yeah.
What do they do that's different to like a typical church?
So one of the things that, that they were really worried about
right away, that they were telling us when it came to the Shinchunji church
and the early spread was the, how close their congregation is.
So it's, it's almost like, like these circles, I guess of prayer.
So they have these really close.
Like you're really physically close to each other.
So as opposed to sitting in a few pews or like a bunch of chairs,
they're a lot closer than that.
And this is the reason it spread much faster in their congregation
as opposed to any other congregation.
Yeah.
But, and you're mentioning that like to me in private that they would
travel from like rural areas, get sick in the mega church
and then like go back to those rural areas.
Yeah, it was really, really unfortunate.
But regarding their like belief system, like how do they differ
from like an average church?
Like I see some, some stuff here that looks kind of whack.
The spiritual throne seen from above, spiritual throne seen from below.
Yeah.
Are we able to, are we able to make that any, any larger?
I'll do the old zoom.
Yeah.
Whoop.
What do we got?
There's, there's a lot of stuff on here.
Hang on.
Oh my gosh.
Every time I, there we go.
We have the 12.
Do you see the 12 tribes thing that's on the side?
Yeah.
All down.
And so we have like these different.
So we have soul James and we have Busan James really.
So this is exciting.
So there's Busan James.
So these are different tribes.
I guess that they're thinking they're going to be the ones
that are taken into heaven.
Some of these are, they're kind of interesting.
Like, you know how people get on the idea of like Jesus being
so Italian looking, you know, he's so European.
Yeah.
Palestinian guy.
Yeah.
Some of the times you, he's Korean.
Ah, Korean.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So that happens sometimes.
I'm not sure if they necessarily believe it,
but it looks like they're, they're kind of focusing on like a 12
tribes of Shincheonji, you know, not,
not a hundred percent sure exactly what's,
what's going on there, but it's.
Yeah.
There's a promised pastor.
So this is kind of where it comes into a almost,
where we're thinking more like the cult stuff.
So it's not like anybody is the leader.
This one particular guy who was delivered on to Shincheonji,
that kind of thing.
So it's, yeah, it's, I would,
who might this be closer to?
Hmm.
The guy who started it,
I have to give, I do have to give credit where credit is due.
I don't know if this is,
if this is just trying to save public image,
they did apologize for all that poor handling of the COVID-19 virus.
But.
Yeah.
I don't think anybody thinks they did this maliciously.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
It's just, it's one of those things where it was so frustrating
because we just didn't want it to go any further.
You know, this,
this could have been a controlled epidemic.
You know.
I just have sent my angel to give you this testimony for the churches.
I'm the root and the Austrian of David and the ring of the morning style.
Greetings to all beloved Christians.
So he kind of,
so I've heard that he kind of sees himself as like a prophet,
kind of like the chosen.
Yeah.
And there's,
there's a few of those that show up.
There's the moonies you probably heard about.
If anybody is familiar with Stephen Hassan,
or I guess Steve Hass,
I'm not sure 100% how to pronounce his name,
but he's,
he's done a lot of really good stuff about cults,
like a lot of good books and stuff,
a lot of good research about it.
And he was actually part of the moonies.
So the moonies,
you guys may know them most as the,
the,
the people that organized the mega weddings.
That's,
that's who they are,
like the big stadiums of people that just get mass married to each other.
So they,
they believe like they're the second coming of Jesus in some cases,
that they're like the prophet who's going to announce that Jesus is coming,
or that Jesus will come in their lifetime because they paved the way.
There's other people that they think like they're the wife of Jesus.
You know, I've,
yeah, this stuff happens in the States,
you know,
and I'm sure it happens in Australia,
but there's that guy who says he is the second Jesus and the second Mary,
like they're,
they go around touring in their Australian.
But I feel like it's,
it's a little more common.
I'm not saying it is common.
Most churches are not like this.
But I would say I've heard more of it in Korea,
just which is odd because, you know,
based on the population and the relative lack of popularity of Christianity here,
atheism is the largest religious group,
quote unquote.
Last I checked,
it was 48%.
So that's the largest group and then Buddhism.
So Christianity,
yeah, it exists here.
People, everybody knows what it is.
You can see churches everywhere,
but it's not like most people are Christian.
So to have like a relatively smaller population
with a relatively smaller percentage of the population
dedicated to Christianity to hear about all of these.
Yeah, I'm the second coming of Jesus.
Oh yeah,
he's, he's coming tomorrow because I paved the way.
That's a little,
that's a little odd,
you know,
yeah,
God church.
I don't know if you ever have heard of it,
but it's like the Jesus,
it's sort of the,
do you know the sibling oracles and stuff,
like the civil?
No.
It's like this Gnostic thing about the God.
One of them has like a wife,
so there's like the wife of God.
I do know a little bit about Gnosticism,
but not like more from an ancient,
like an antiquities perspective.
But I don't know much about Gnostic churches today.
Do they still exist?
It's,
I don't,
I don't know if it necessarily would count.
Maybe it is.
I've spoken to them once.
I got to,
I got to talk to them about it.
And they said that because it says that we've,
because I asked them where in the Bible do you guys get
that God has a wife
and that,
that it's like a marriage of like concept.
And so they just pointed to Genesis
and they said that,
because God made us in his image
and we are male and female.
There for God is also male
and also there must be a female God.
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
Well, that's not,
that's not the in-depth answer.
I was hoping for.
Actually,
I have to recommend a really fantastic book.
God,
God and Anonymy by Dr.
Francesca Stafforda Capullo.
I spent all my pocket money,
got a signed copy delivered from the UK.
Fantastic book.
But,
those,
those in the chat will know,
will know that I'm about to talk,
what I'm about to talk about,
but we're talking this morning
about God's massive dick,
which is referenced in the Bible
and is kind of dressed up
to not mean dick in the English translations.
But this book goes into like
how the ancient world saw God
and he had hands, feet,
a wife and all that stuff.
Walking around the garden and everything.
Yeah,
the concept of God obviously evolved,
but it's just really interesting to have such a
fantastic book on that,
but it talks about in Isaiah 6,
talks about God entering the temple.
And the English translation says like the,
someone said up here said,
the dangly bits from the robe, right?
But what the actual Hebrew is kind of referring to,
if you know the Hebrew is essentially,
it's kind of a play on words for God's junk.
It's like God's junk was so big,
it fiddled the room.
And that wasn't seen as like
something like to be crass
or anything at the time.
That was like saying,
this God concept that they had was so,
so like them,
big genitals was a thing, I guess.
It still is, I guess, but
so yeah, we've had,
so it is an interesting concept that
there are people who believe these things like God
as a wife.
Obviously,
yeah, I don't,
I'm not convinced of the existence of God,
but yeah, all power to you if you have these
interesting ideas.
Someone said,
someone in the chat said,
all six of my sisters contracted it
at their churches.
So COVID-19 at the church
that we're talking about.
I'm an atheist and I've never been infected.
But then I was going to say,
I got it once.
We had a COVID Mary situation as well.
Yeah, I had,
I was going to say praise Neil deGrasse Tyson,
but then someone said,
I'm an atheist and I've had it three times.
Yeah, right.
So we can't draw a correlation there.
Yep, unfortunately, yeah.
Philly Dave Sevens is truly fascinating
and also sad that COVID denialism
was so popular within religious communities
around the world.
I definitely noted that.
Obviously, this is a pandemic.
I'm a history teacher.
In an academic way,
I was really like,
I hate to use this phrase,
but I was excited to be living through a pandemic.
History teacher,
which again, it's a terrible way to phrase it.
But yeah, so I was really,
for a while I was documenting every day.
I still have it somewhere.
I think I got to day 30 something.
I was just documenting every day that happened.
I was making live streams
while I was working from home.
So during my lunch break,
I would make live streams
just so people could kind of check in
and see that it's,
yeah, I'm at home,
but it's not the end of the world.
I made some recommendations for people
that were on lockdown,
like how to avoid cabin fever and stuff.
So yeah, it was a pretty interesting time, I think.
But overall,
I was really disappointed
in the religious communities around the world,
how a lot of Jewish people said,
oh, this is for the non-Jews
and the Muslim people said,
oh, this is for the non-Muslims
and the Hindu people said,
oh, well, as long as we still bathe
in the Ganges, then we'll be okay.
And it was just so disappointing
that everybody kept giving it to everybody else
because they would go to these events
and then go back to their respective communities
and just spread it.
I mean, why not just go online?
Isn't God everywhere?
Why do we have to be physically in a congregation?
I don't get it.
Yeah, it's also,
like it might have been seen as like an act of,
like you're betraying your faith
if you don't trust God.
The other thing too is like,
there are some church pastors,
like there was a pastor,
who's that guy?
He's an absolute moron.
My brain isn't working too well today,
but Greg Locke, pastor Greg Locke.
Oh, thank you.
That guy, I also forgot his name.
Yeah.
I don't know why.
He made his church a mask-free zone.
So you couldn't wear a mask
if you went to his church.
So there's people like that who
I think should be unresponsible.
Yeah, I think people like that
should be unresponsible
for the lives that they've influenced to die.
But so, and that's the thing too,
is something that,
we're not going to talk about COVID this whole time,
because it's been done to death.
Yeah.
But the thing that bothered me is,
and people always ask,
why do you care about what other people believe?
Because people's beliefs inform their actions.
And I have to live in a society
where people don't believe masks work,
because they don't have a basic understanding of biology
or immunology or anything.
They believe that they can like drink turmeric butter
or whatever and then like get...
Or cow urine.
Yeah, yeah.
Like they have these perspectives.
But then what's worse is,
there was a while where in our local community,
there were members wearing big yellow Jewish stars
on their shirts when they went to church,
as if they were persecuted like the Jews of Europe,
because they had to wear a mask.
And they refused to wear a mask
and everyone just hated them for it.
But it was disgusting.
It's not about politics.
I don't care what the left or the right say.
It's not about...
It's pretty simple.
If you don't spread the disease,
if you make efforts to not spread the disease, great.
Even the anti-lockdown protests, great.
You can do an anti-lockdown protest.
You can even do it in the streets.
But you can wear masks.
You can social distance.
You can still accept the science
and not like the mandates.
But that's not...
Yeah.
Yeah, I feel like it's ticklish.
Yeah, as soon as I read it,
I'm like, you know, try not to laugh.
Yeah, totally not laughing.
Yeah, I tried, I failed.
Yeah, it's so...
I feel like the Christian persecution complex
is pretty hard, you know.
And I mean, it's people who were Christian, right?
It's like you get it because you're told
that the better Christian you are,
the more persecuted you're going to be
and nobody's persecuting you.
So...
Yeah, it's welcome.
Is the Bible wrong?
Are you not a good Christian?
So let's get more extreme.
And then people are like, wow, that sucks.
And you're like, oh, that's it.
There's the persecution.
Somebody said it sucks.
I remember when I was deconstructing my faith
originally, I remember it was around the time
of the same sex marriage publicide
when it really started to sink in Australia.
But it was like, I remember Christians
thinking that including other members
of the population into something
that isn't their business was persecution on them.
They thought marriage equality was persecution on them.
And I said to, I was like, wait.
I was like, is, you know, they're like, well,
it's a Christian concept.
And I was like, can atheists get married?
A Satanist is allowed to get married?
A Hindu is allowed to get married?
What do you mean?
If you're okay with two Hindus getting married,
you should be equally...
It makes no sense to me if you think it's a Christian concept.
Right, and then they don't have to get married.
Maybe some people want to,
but you don't have to get married in a church.
Marriage is a legal contract.
So if they don't want the Christian idea of marriage,
you don't have to marry them in your church,
but they can still be legally married
and enjoy the legal protections of marriage.
Yeah, exactly.
That's totally fine.
What's the argument there?
So I really am excited to show you this conspiracy chart.
I'm excited.
When someone who dies into conspiracy theories
as much as you do hasn't seen this chart,
it is just so pretty.
I'm excited.
I want to see how many I can...
Yeah, let's do a game.
So for those who don't know,
someone created this image called the conspiracy chart in 2021.
That kind of documents all the kind of conspiracy theories.
And someone's built a website for it
where you can actually click on them and get information.
So I've got the website up and we're going to open here.
So this is the conspiracy chart 2021, right?
Yeah.
So you've got...
I will zoom in,
but you've got these growing reality at the bottom here,
and then you go up to speculation line,
then you leave reality,
then you're into reality denial,
and then you cross,
which is so pretty good,
the anti-semitic point of no return.
Oh, that's perfect.
And I just love...
Yeah, because they all end up being anti-semitic.
I haven't...
It's amazing.
Obviously, horrible.
I don't mean to say it's amazing that they're anti-semitic,
but it's amazing that they all end up...
Yeah.
So let's zoom in.
I want to see how many of these you get.
So...
Okay, let's go.
Yeah, start at the bottom.
Start at the bottom.
Okay.
And if anyone...
If anyone in the chat,
if anyone...
Let's be honest here, okay?
Like, did you have...
Miss Lemon, did you ever have conspiracy theories?
Like, did you ever believe in conspiracy theories?
I mean, there's some of them that are true.
Like, I'm here,
like the Tuskegee experiment in MKUltra,
and the NSA mass surveillance, right?
But as far as like the other types...
I was like...
I don't know, maybe we'll see some of these,
but I really thought maybe Area 51...
Yeah, okay.
You know, I really...
No, not...
I never, never that one.
I was in engineering school at the time,
and they...
We showed that the buildings were designed to sustain a hit
from like a 707,
but they took a hit from what was it, a 757.
And so it was like, wow, that's really good.
And of course, when they heat up,
the steel loses its integrity and it causes torsion
and it bends and it warps.
So this was like before the idea of people were talking about,
oh, it can't melt steel beams, you know?
So we were just like, yeah, so once it melts,
or not melts, once it bends a little bit,
yeah, it's gonna come crashing down.
And so when people were like, oh, it can't melt it,
I'm like, I don't think anybody claimed it melted it.
You know, just kind of good job building didn't fall over
and then it collapsed, which sucks, you know?
But yeah, so let's see.
Big tobacco light about cancer.
Yeah, we got like all these ones are pretty, you know, like...
Okay, okay.
One that is super funky that I thought in the past,
I thought, oh yeah, for sure,
is what was it, the Philadelphia experiment.
Oh, I don't know about that.
Okay, so you're on a ship
and they turn on a Tesla coil
because they're testing to see,
can they do something better
with like camouflage against radar?
And then the ship disappeared.
And then it reappeared way faster
than it should have wherever it was supposed to be.
And then there was like dudes
like going through the walls and stuff
and like a bunch of people were dead on there.
Okay, so this is pretty cool.
Yeah, but like being in the military,
I was working for intelligence for a while,
nothing super high up, but stuff like, yeah,
the NSA surveillance, I mean that...
Are you going to drop some Edward Snowden facts on me
right now?
I can't.
I can publish it.
I can publish it for you.
Make something up.
Yeah, make it up.
No, I've been good.
I've been good keeping everything quiet for gosh,
wouldn't have to get out of the military in 2008.
So I've been good about it.
And my mom was trying to get the secrets out of me
and I'm like, I can't.
She's like, oh, I'm not going to tell anybody.
And I was like, yeah.
Oh yeah, but you're still, you can't.
I was like, well yeah,
but your cell phone and stuff picks it up.
And she looked at me like I was crazy.
And I was like, don't you remember voting on the Patriot Act
that the government can just listen to us?
Like this wasn't even a secret conspiracy.
This was, we voted on it.
No, they totally still listen to you
even if the phone is off.
So even if I talk about it now, you know, they'll hear it.
I mean, Google, Google can hear me.
Yeah.
I didn't know this.
So do you actually know secrets?
Yeah.
Oh wow.
Okay.
Yeah, I mean, they're not like anything.
Like when I found them out,
I'll tell you this much.
When I found them out, I was like, oh, that's it.
Well, why don't we say that?
And I remember my sergeant was like,
because if we do people will freak out
about what didn't happen, even though it didn't happen.
So a really good example of this is the shoe bomb
on an airplane that guy was trying to light his shoes
to blow up the airplane, right?
And so now everybody in the U.S., even today,
we got to take off our shoes to go through
the security checkpoint, right?
Nobody else does that.
I've been a bunch of different,
I've never taken off my shoes, going through it,
like a bunch of Korean people that have never been to the U.S.
They're like, why are we taking off our shoes?
It's so shocking.
So here, they caught the guy with all the systems
that are already in place, they caught him.
He didn't blow anything up, nobody was hurt.
But they were so scared that something maybe would happen
that now nobody gets to wear their shoes
for the next how many years?
That's how people overreact.
And that's what they don't want people to do.
So they're just like, we can't tell anybody
because they're going to overreact.
So that's it.
There's a story about,
I'm not sure if you've read the,
there's a book called The China Study
and it kind of goes through like the biggest study
on nutrition on Earth or whatever.
And it's very plant-based, orientated obviously,
but one thing they kind of noted is
there was a chemical found in like baloney
or something like kid's snacks
and parents found out about it, got a good notified
and parents found out about this
and they were stopping the school bus
to like get their kids off to get the snacks out of the,
It was something, the chemical,
the thing is the chemical was like infinitely
more less toxic than the actual baloney itself.
So like we know that like process meets
like according to the CDC
or whatever our class 1 carcinogen,
like the tobacco carcinogen, right?
Yeah, like as messes.
But these parents were freaking out
and it was like infinitely less of a deal
but it's like people react to things very,
not very logically.
But I have a quick question.
What do you think about Edward Snowden?
Oh, yeah, I think he's super,
I don't know, I have a hard time
because it's like,
so I do have a hard time
when people to ask me questions about
like the NSA and stuff.
You know, on the one hand,
it's like I'm American freedom of my privacy.
And on the other hand, it's like,
well, wait a minute,
I've seen what they can do
and what they do like they don't,
you know, it's like anybody can look inside your house
but nobody does, but anybody could,
but nobody does, you know,
because there's no reason to like spy
on you walking across your living room
so nobody does.
So technically, I guess your window
towards the street could be a violation of private,
but nobody does it, right?
But if you were in front of your window
murdering somebody,
somebody would be able to see it and stop you.
The only time people are intervening
in your privacy is when you're doing something
you shouldn't be doing
and they need to intervene, right?
So these are things that they're like way up there
regular police officers
don't even have the way to get them.
So to go back to that question about Snowden
on the one hand,
America freedom tell the government secrets,
but on the other hand,
their secrets are kept for a reason
and I know it sucks because,
especially with all the stuff like on that bottom list
with MKUltra,
with the Tuskegee syphilis experiment stuff,
there's secrets we don't want
and why should we trust the government
with those secrets, right?
We've seen their track record is not the best,
but at the same time,
we know about these handful of things
that were terrible.
There's a lot more stuff that isn't terrible
and that's, you know,
and it makes me feel really sick to my stomach
to say that because I'm not that person
that's like, oh, just trust the government,
but I feel like I got no other choice
but to say that it's like,
these are not people that are like checking
to see how many dick pics you're sending.
They don't care, you know?
They don't care what you're doing.
They're too busy.
Even if they want to see how magnificent your dick is,
they're too busy to do it.
You know what I mean?
Even when they are watching you,
like even when they are like,
it's not someone like behind a camera,
like watching a screen,
it's like AI and algorithms passing words
and he keeps saying things like,
I won't say them because my trim will get flagged
but he keeps saying like bomb and like,
you know, all these are whatever.
Daniel saying in the chat that Snowden was naive.
I would say that's the way,
yeah, that's a really good way to phrase it.
It's like on the one hand,
you want to be like,
oh, expose that damn government,
but there's a lot of reasons it's not exposed.
I think a really good example was when,
who was a Geraldo?
He was this newscaster who was really big in the 80s and 90s
and then kind of went away.
And so he's back in like, in the Iraq war.
And so there, he got some intel somehow.
And so he was asking a question to some of the military guys
about what they were going to do next.
And they were like,
that was a secret.
So he's like, oh, so I heard you guys are,
something along those lines and they got so upset
because now they got to change everything
because you just blabbed it out on live TV, you know.
A lot of the stuff that's secret
is stuff most people just would not care about.
I will say that, at least the stuff that I saw.
Nobody would care about it.
It has to do with stuff like different weapons
that are being used,
that we got to watch out for, you know, stuff like that.
And even then that would be outdated information
because like I said, it got out in 2008.
That's the kind of stuff, you know,
it's just like we don't want the other guy
to know we know about their stuff
because then if they know that we know,
then they'll stop using it.
Yeah, there are people who are watching this,
who will watch this, who will believe that you're lying
the way that you're secretly telling us that you are lying
is the alien UFO in the background.
It's like, you know, like she's really secretly
giving us the information.
So for those listening at home.
Yeah, for those listening at home, it's not a real alien,
it's a green screen.
Just like they use for the moment.
So, okay, so let's go back to this.
Yeah, let's check it out.
So we got like, you know, Watergate,
you know, big oil push climate disinformation
and by the way, that's that's how I know
that Daniel is not lying is because he's like,
look, Snowden was not even most of the stuff is boring.
Right, that's it.
That's it.
Most of this is boring.
Yeah, which is sad because I was going in like around
Agent Scully, let's deep dive into this.
And it's just like, oh, here's some like maps.
Yeah, but do you think that like with Snowden,
do you think that because I read his book and I think
his like heart, I hate using that word,
but his heart behind law came out pretty strong that he was
just like, hey, I want the public to kind of know this and
you try to do it in the most responsible way possible,
I guess.
I don't know the most responsible way.
Yeah, I mean, it's like, you know, how do you skin a cat
or whatever that turn is like, yeah, it's like it's
it wasn't like in some way.
I just I if anyone's interested in reading his book,
because I think he explains himself pretty well,
not saying I'm like a fanboy or whatever,
but I think it's I think it's interesting to kind of
Yeah, and I again, I feel like it is, you know,
it's he is kind of heroic to to the average person
because they don't they don't see the full picture of it.
But once you're getting more of a picture of it,
you kind of get to see why like it's no it's no secret that
the Internet was created for the military.
So they still have a secret Internet.
It's called the SIPR net.
And you could you go to like Fox News or CNN or
something on the SIPR net.
And it's all of the journalists that have these security
clearances and they write this stuff on there.
And it's really interesting you get to read it,
but it's not like, oh, we found the aliens in Saddam's
bunker.
It's like, oh, here was this thing that you guys should
know about if you want to read about it.
You know, that's that's that's it.
It's it's again, it's just it's like nerd stuff.
Like if you're a government nerd, then yeah, you like it.
But otherwise, again, it's not like, you know,
the cigarette smoking guy, like because I loved the ex file.
So once I once it was like the briefcase with the handcuff,
I was like, yes.
And then like I'm going into the safe because it's in a wall
and you got to access the safe and I'm like, yeah.
And then I get in there.
The safe is really cold.
And the briefing was not short and boring.
Oh, this is this is all.
I think from a from this perspective of someone who doesn't
know anything about this kind of stuff about it was known.
But from my perspective, he seems very seems like full
of integrity.
He seems like he really cares.
But he also seems a little traumatic.
And I don't know.
Yeah, OK.
I would agree.
I would agree with that.
Like he seems like he's like this is and it was big news
to everyone, I guess.
But he seems like as if.
Like it to me, it's not that to me.
It's not that big of a deal.
Like yeah, it's not nice or whatever.
But like he acts as a I'll shut up now.
But let's go.
Let's go on to this.
Yeah.
Otherwise, we'll keep talking about it.
OK.
So we've got these like, you know, these kind of I will say
boring ones.
And for those listening, I'm sorry.
But we're going through the chart.
But and we'll hopefully read out things.
But we get.
We move across into the speculation line.
So that's like UFOs area 51 Denver International Airport.
Ebsen himself.
Charles Manson, the CIA.
So yeah.
So this is the actual Air Force.
Oh, I know about that one with the Satan horse and stuff.
And like the huge underground portion of it.
You know what I'm talking about?
No, I don't.
Tell us about the Denver International Airport.
OK.
Look up.
Look up the Denver International Airport.
Gosh, what's his name?
Like it's blue horse, like Satan horse or blue horse,
Denver International Airport.
So there's yeah.
So there's that.
And they're like, why?
Why did they have this weird, like scary looking horse there?
But then also if you look at the the blueprints,
there's a huge underground portion like the underground portion
allegedly is larger than the actual airport that's above ground.
Yeah, that one.
There it is.
Look at this thing.
It's pretty scary looking, right?
And then oh, look at Denver International Airport.
Like creepy paintings or something like that.
Because those paintings are there too.
Like they're supposed to tell a story.
That's like a conspiracy story.
So it's about stuff like the New World Order.
It's about like child sacrifice.
Yeah, there they are.
So it's it's all about, you know, so you can read into it.
You know, it's all about the new age that so then in this case,
the rainbow does not mean LGBTQ.
It means the new age.
And so there's there's all of these.
Yeah, so yeah, I am definitely no stranger to conspiracy.
I love it.
I love it.
Interesting.
So so Jimmy Hoffa disappearance, things like that.
So this is like the speculation line.
So this is like, OK, like this is like this is like it's fun to like,
you know, I don't know, like sit around a campfire and smoke a joint
and talk about this with your friends or something.
Right.
But then you like you start to like leave reality in this next one.
Yeah, I love.
OK, so Avril Lavigne replaced.
Do we know this one?
So yeah, let's let's let's read through a few of these.
And I'll read through a few and then we'll go through them.
OK, so there's this is leaving reality like so Avril Lavigne replaced.
Kylie Jenner is a clone.
Tupac is alive in Serbia.
Cryptids, Elvis lives, alien abductions, mattress firm,
money laundering scheme.
Greta Thunberg is a time traveler.
Prince Charles is a vampire.
Stevie Wonder isn't blind.
Ted Cruz is a zodiac killer.
Titanic never sank and Michael Jackson is still alive.
This is leaving reality.
You stop believing this.
I think the only ones I haven't heard of is.
I mean, Kylie Jenner is a clone.
I haven't heard that one specifically,
but somebody being a clone.
That's that's not anything special to me.
But the one that really stands out at me is that Titanic never sank.
That's that's what I haven't heard.
Not that I recall.
But the one I like the most is cryptids out of those.
I talk about cryptids a lot in my daily life for some reason.
And sometimes introduce it to my students just for fun.
So we talk about like because we talk about geography, you know.
And I like to introduce some cultural stuff.
Like so by the way, you know, there's like the Sasquatch or the Yeti.
There's the Mothman, the Jersey Devil, those kinds of things.
Yeah.
So why so I don't even know what this is.
Cryptids like what is that?
Oh, so those like those are like animals that are not documented by science
that people believe in such as.
Yeah, I forget the one there's a term there,
but Australia has a type of big foot as well.
But it drags people into the what are they called the billabong.
It drags people.
It's cold.
So they have them.
They have them in a lot of places.
Like Ape Man or this like don't go near the water.
So stuff like a kelpie, I would say,
is closer to what the Australian big foot quote unquote is because it drags
people into the watering and drowns them.
Yeah.
The Yahweh, thank you.
Yes, the Yahweh.
There it is.
So I look, I hate that I'm going to say this, right?
Because I don't believe in almost any conspiracy theory.
Until they're not conspiracy theories, right?
Because then I believe that's when you have sufficient reason to believe them.
In general, in general, I'm not like closed off the information, but like I just, yeah.
But this one time my friend and I were in the bush.
This is a real story.
I'm being 100% serious.
I 100% believe you.
Okay.
And we're in the bush and we're going for like a really long bike ride.
And we stopped and I was getting something in my bag like a music bar or something.
And I was looking ahead and I saw this like giant log.
Like his huge, like it was like a burnt down log, like kind of standing up.
Like it was like a tree stump.
Sorry.
Like burnt black.
And as I turned around to look at my friend, I saw it move out of the corner of my eye.
And at the same time, because he was looking in my direction, he said, what the fuck is that?
And then we turned around and this thing that I can only explain looking like a bear was walking
all fours from like, I'm looking at it and it's like moving camera right.
And we like, and we had to ride down that path and we're like, we're like, what do we do?
We got knives out of our bag.
I don't know why we had knives.
We thought maybe going in the bush bring a knife or whatever.
So we got knives out of the bag.
We rode past it.
We couldn't see anything and we just kind of kept riding.
But we don't have bears in Australia.
And so I don't know.
I've heard of the drop bear.
We have drop bears, but yeah, they're not that big.
So this thing I swear was about a meter, meter, 1.2 meters high, like on all fours.
Okay.
So it was either a giant dog, huge dog that was like kind of sitting up looking at us
and then just walked off.
This is what I'm thinking.
Or it was less likely or it was a giant wombat that just looked big from a distance.
Or and the last thing that I could think possibly be is.
I don't know.
Maybe it is a bear or something.
I don't know.
But it was definitely, it was definitely a weird experience.
So the people have told me that was a Yaoi experience.
So who knows.
Oh, that's interesting.
And I think that's that's where the problem comes in.
It's like I see something.
I'm not really sure what it was.
And people are so sure that we know exactly what everything is.
You know, like, oh, I've seen a dog before.
It was not a dog.
How do you know you see an every dog?
You've seen every dog from every angle at every possible lighting, you know.
Yeah.
As for so, so there was a question about the looks like that and Sanbom.
And that yeah, I've asked a million people as many people as I can ask about cryptids about
legends about stuff and create.
Nobody knows nobody cares.
Okay.
Yeah.
Because if you ask a like an American person about Bigfoot, even if they don't care,
they'll say, oh, yeah, I've heard of it.
That's stupid.
But you'll never get somebody who's like, what's a big I've never heard of that.
But I've asked them, you know, what is this Jang Sangbom?
I've heard about it in Busan or something.
Oh, gosh, I don't know.
I have no idea.
Nobody has any idea.
It's it's pretty interesting because I guess for the average Korean, there's there's
not much of a connection to historical Korea.
Honestly, it's it's interesting too, because D who D is a regular community member.
She said religious religion primes you to be superstitious.
And it's interesting that South Korea you're saying is quite atheistic in her thinking
or in their belief system.
So it's interesting that they don't necessarily have that.
I would say like there's this belief that doing certain activities like
basketball can make your child grow taller.
That magnets do something to draw your blood energy.
There's still some beliefs in like the Chinese traditional stuff, like eating an animal's penis
makes your penis better, just stuff like that.
Oh, hang on.
Wait, what was that?
Let me write that down.
Yeah, write it down.
Penis makes penis.
Okay.
Penis makes penis.
Sword, sword fighting.
Just write it down.
Sword fighting.
All right.
Sword fighting at the gym.
Rats asked is the Tasmanian tiger a cryptid if it might still exist or is it just an extinct animal.
So when there's an animal that we believe goes extinct and then we find out it doesn't.
It's actually called a Lazarus species.
Oh, wow.
I feel like I feel like finally I get to talk about all my stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's smart.
But that's what that's what it's called as a Lazarus species.
I love it.
I'm like I'm finally like I don't know a bunch of biology.
I don't know a stupid biology.
I love that.
Nice.
So, okay.
So we have the Avril Lavigne replace.
What's that about?
Yes.
Okay.
So Avril Lavigne, you guys know probably the singer, right?
Yeah.
Eventually at some point there was like a thing where it said like dear Melissa or I love Melissa and it was her best friend who looks really similar to her.
And then after that album, everything changed her.
She got really, really overly feminine.
That was her thing was that she wasn't.
She was kind of more like, you know, one of the guys and now she's dressing in like frilly dresses.
Does her hair really nice, really nice makeup.
And it's always smiling all the time.
So did you find it?
Yeah.
So.
This is so dumb.
This is what it is.
Yeah.
That she got tired of the fame and no, no, no, that she killed herself.
Sorry.
Am I allowed to say that?
She did an end game and that they, they wanted to continue to make.
So like she kind of handed off the torch to her friend who continued to make her music after she died.
I've seen, have you seen those like, those like makeup, like for men, it's like incredible that like you see these makeup like these, these TikToks where people put on makeup.
And then this is the evidence.
Like they look like the same person, but with a different like probably.
Yeah.
I mean, even like, like here it says like, oh, she's tan and oh, it's this other thing.
You know, it's like, yeah, wow, she went out.
She went outside.
I mean, I, I don't dress the way I did when I was 16 either.
There's, there's an element of it.
You know, like there's part of your personality that just kind of remains constant.
You know, I still dress very dark and stuff.
Yeah.
You know, but I'm not the same.
Like I would be more shocked if she didn't change.
Wouldn't you?
Like if she's in her late thirties and she still acts like she's 17, wouldn't that be more shocked?
That would be, that would be weird.
People can't handle the fact that she aged this Philly day.
Yeah, that's, yeah, it's like if she aged, that means I age and I'm still a truly a skater girl.
Yeah, exactly.
I'm not one of the, not like the other girls.
So, um, let's, uh, so is there any more in this section that you want to chat about?
Like Greta Thunberg is a time traveler.
I have no idea what that is.
So there's a handful of so-and-so is a time traveler.
It's basically, I think the best example, if you look up Keanu Reeves is a time traveler.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's like all those pictures and stuff.
So Greta Thunberg is one of those.
It's just, oh wow, like, like human genetics.
Like wow.
And for me, like if you go to my Patreon, my tagline is I'm everyone's doppelganger.
Because I, that's everybody is like, oh wow, I have like an aunt that looks just, oh, do you know so-and-so?
Gosh, you look like that you could be her, her mom or something.
So that's like everybody thinks that I look like somebody.
I got sent an image this week.
Someone's like, oh, this is another person, but I thought it was you for a second.
I was like, oh, well, thanks.
It's actually, you sent me like a bunch of photos for this stream.
And like you have a very diverse like looks you can give.
I feel like if I walked past you in South Korea, I wouldn't be like, oh, like, it's lemon.
Are you doing like, I'm like, I recognize you, but I don't know.
Like, yeah.
Right.
Someone said the real conspiracy is how JLo hasn't aged.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
But if you do want to know, you know, being closer, closer to the equator, at least genetically,
you do produce more collagen.
So that's why there's that phrase, black don't crack.
There's a reason for that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's all my stupid biology knowledge.
So Daniel, I do have a little, little quick story.
Daniel Whitaker said, one of my sisters tried to tell me someone famous was trans.
I was just laughing.
I was just typing ha ha ha to that.
Yeah.
It wasn't any photos when they were pregnant.
So I need to.
Hello, spellcaster.
I need to mention something.
I need to be careful with how I word this though.
Recently had some recently had some friends.
I'll say friends over the house.
And we were talking.
Is it the Illuminati?
No, no, we're talking about US.
They believe that, of course.
US politics.
And someone else.
Oh, what's Obamacare?
And I was like, oh, affordable care act.
And then they go, well, what's a what's Obama?
You know, what's it?
You know, and I was like, oh, they call it Obamacare.
And someone else heard me say, and I've never met this person before.
I said, Obama.
And I went, yeah, yeah, Obamacare.
Yeah.
And they go, oh, he's a boy.
And I went, I was like, what?
I was like, what's that?
Just like, like, it's like, it's like.
Yeah.
And I was like, what do you mean?
Michelle's a boy.
And I was like, what do you mean Michelle's a boy?
And I was just like, yeah.
And I was like, I was like, I couldn't even understand what they were trying to say.
It was like, are you saying that they're secretly trans?
Is that a cat?
That's so cute.
Are you saying that they're like secretly trans?
Or are you like, what are you saying?
I am.
And eventually, like, it was an amazing conversation with so much.
Like, this is moving into the realities and kind of things.
But it was like, I wish I asked them at the time, like, wait.
So is Barack Obama a girl?
Like, how do they have their kids?
Like, you know, like, but I messaged Ben, who is friend that's been on the stream.
And he's a trans content creator.
So he gets this stuff all the time, right?
Oh, yeah.
And I didn't realize.
Hey.
Dr. Ben.
Yes.
Yeah, Dr. Ben.
Yeah.
Awesome dude.
But he said that he goes, oh, you have, you know, a transvestigator.
And I was like, what's a trans?
And it's like, there are people who go around investigating celebrities and going,
this person's trans, this person's trans.
I even said to this person that was saying that the trans said, why do you think they're
trans?
Yeah.
They go, I've seen pictures and I said, of what?
It's like them as a boy.
And I said, but I was like, is it possible that it wasn't them or that it was doppelganger
or that these images were photoshopped?
No.
And I said, why?
No.
And they said, because it's not, because it's true.
And I said, but why couldn't the photos be photoshopped?
Like surely if space can be photoshopped as you believe, why can't this be photoshopped?
It just wasn't.
And I'm just like, oh my God.
Like the, and eventually it ended with the conversation didn't end.
But eventually like when I kept prompting these, these questions, the question eventually
came, do you believe in the devil?
And I said, and I say, well, that's where we have a disagreement because we know that the
devil is trying to disrupt everything and trans trans identity is being pushed in everything.
And I said, if trans identity is being pushed into everything, why is she secretly trans?
Why isn't she publicly trans?
What?
This makes the devil works in mysterious ways, I guess.
But apparently it's more effective than God, I guess.
Yeah.
It's a, you know, part of it, because some people say it's a part of it's a racist thing because
there's a lot of like non, like women that aren't European get compared to men a lot.
Like women from West Asia, for example, in South Asia being hairy like a man.
Oh, she's got, she can grow a beard better than I can, you know, crap like that.
And then there's also an opposite one where like East Asian men are women, you know, because
they look a certain way.
I've gotten it.
Like back when I was, you know, before I got all messed up in the military, I was doing
training for competitive bodybuilding and some people were asking me was I on steroids
and all this other stuff.
And I was very complimented.
I said, wow, you think I'm big enough to be on steroids?
I got really like, wow, okay, cool things.
But this, this, this idea that a little bit of muscle on a woman means that she's like,
how would you, but you know what, this has been going on forever because that's what the
Spartan women were, were insulted for too.
You know, it was like, oh yeah, Sparta, you're like ultra gay because your women are men
and Sparta was like Athens, you're actually having sex with young boys.
Let's see it.
Oh yeah, maybe, maybe Paul, who was it, Paul?
So we're now moving into, let's move up this little bit.
We're now moving into reality denial.
And this is when someone gets to the stage, you've heard it here coined first.
They get a really, if you, I want to hear stories in the chat of people who you know in your life who have what I'm calling CTS conspiracy theory sickness.
Okay.
Where people just get obsessed with these conspiracy theories.
You try and talk about, you know, you're in, you're in the, you're cutting up carrots for a soup or something and they go carrots.
Do you know that?
And then they somehow spin that into some, you know, carrots are orange kind of like Donald Trump's head.
You know, Donald Trump is actually the, you know, like kind of like they'll just do everything they can to talk about conspiracy theories.
So let's move into reality denial.
All right.
This is where it gets really fun.
So we have
Oh, Tataria
Tataria
I'll read them out.
Tataria for the people listening at home.
Tataria and Tifa did giant during six RFID tracking devices in bras. Jet fuel doesn't melt steam steel beams.
US president election was stolen.
I need to just comment on this.
For those who think that the US president election was stolen.
Will they not vote for Donald Trump in the 2024 election because they won't, you know, there'll be a third term, right?
Because they're like, oh, we can't vote for him because of course they won't.
Global warming is a hoax Iraq.
Denar scam.
Denar, yeah.
Denar scam.
Phantom time,
Wayfair,
Trafficking,
Essential oils cure all illnesses.
Chemtrails,
Pandemic.
Plandemic.
Plandemic, sorry.
Planned the writ, not the pandemic.
I was thinking, wow.
Vaccines have microchips.
Biden is a robot.
5G is toxic.
Moon landing fake.
COVID.
Soy boys.
COVID is a bioweapon.
Feral people in forests and ancient giant trees.
Just quickly on the soy boys.
It's so funny that that term has developed into a thing because soy has photo estrogens in that, right?
But photo estrogens don't affect your estrogen levels the same way that meat affects your estrogen levels.
People say soy boys.
Dairy with mammalian estrogen.
Actually, for guys, it's better if you guys do consume soy instead of dairy.
Because if you look up soy protein protected against prostate cancer, because it takes up the receptors of estrogen but doesn't actually act like estrogen.
And estrogen unfortunately is carcinogenic.
Yay.
It'll actually help protect against prostate cancer.
It's not amazing.
You should be a soy boy, I hope so.
Soy boys become mean.
But it's actually the exact opposite.
Soy boys is the idea that people who have a lot of soy and don't need a lot of meat end up becoming feminine and developing man boobs and things like that.
Where it's actually the opposite.
It was amazing when I discovered that this is so bizarre.
The andrutate people of the world push out this message.
And it's actually the exact opposite.
A lot of these are just wrong.
They're not even right.
They're not even wrong.
They're just out there.
But the soy boys thing is exactly the opposite.
Which is your favorite amongst this list?
Gosh, they're all good.
But I like the tartaria and the ancient trees, the giant trees.
I don't know any about them. Tell us about them.
Okay, great.
So the ancient giant trees, this is basically, do you know what a mesa is?
It's like think of a mountain, but then you delete the top.
It's like flat, like a plateau, right on the top.
So they think, no, that looks like it's a tree.
No, that's not it.
That's not the...
Yeah, yeah, those.
The first two.
Yeah.
So they don't understand how sometimes...
So basically what we're looking at is like a really magma chamber.
And it freezes, not freezes, but like it cools down and it fractures a certain way.
So they think that it's the trees.
Tartaria was like this land that existed before the great mud flood.
And the mud flood only flooded up until like certain levels.
So that way if you see a basement,
but the basement has like a window that's like halfway above the ground,
that's evidence of the mud flood.
They didn't dig it out very well.
This was like in the late 1800s, early 1900s.
This isn't even like an old mud.
Yeah, there it is.
I'm so excited because these are so fucking dumb.
Like I just love...
It's so classic of like, well, that looks like a tree to me.
So must be tree.
The world must be bliss to these people.
They just walk around kind of like seeing things and being like...
And just like everything must just be accurate in their mind.
It's just amazing.
Some people say they can see these giants because they're fossilized.
And so basically it's like a rock formation that if you squint while you're drunk,
it looks like maybe a dragon.
Therefore dragons.
That's what it is.
So for me those are the most interesting because they're so easy to disprove.
Just go take a sample of the rock or learn about the rock.
Like a really good one is the giant's causeway or the giant's walkway.
It's in the UK.
It's really cool like hexagon type basalt that just once it cooled down coming out,
it just turns into these hexagon shapes.
And they're really cool looking.
This is not remarkable in any way.
This is not unusual.
It's not unique.
It's cool.
It's really cool.
I like it.
It's cool.
But it's not like oh wow this is the only one we have like this.
It's just really strange.
A big problem is that people can't accept the age of the earth being older than like.
A lot of people don't accept the theory of evolution.
A lot of these conspiracy theorists I've noticed.
They tend to be quite religious not to pick on religious people because I know a lot of religious people are much smarter than me
and much more balanced than I am.
But there is definitely some magical thinking going on in a lot of religions.
I don't even know if you even know this but I used to be a Pentecostal youth pastor.
So I did speaking in tongues, trying to do exorcisms.
I'm going on Godless Engineers show through the week
and we're going to be talking about a failed exorcism that is a horrible story.
A successful exorcism of a house.
So it looks like Lee Wine and David Zero.
I was a Pentecostal too.
Awesome.
Yeah, we believe in all this excitement.
So you want to hear it.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
I told you my Yaoi story.
Okay.
So a friend of mine, we were really in a ghost hunter's like really into it.
And she decided to get an EVP one night because she just was not feeling it in this good house.
Okay.
So she asked it, what's your name?
Why are you here?
Do you not want us here?
And then you could hear this sound which we had interpreted to be get out now.
And so she sent it to me and I was like, I totally hear it.
Let's do this.
And so she had this dog that was totally fine.
But when she went to this house, it barked constantly at me.
Don't know why.
So we exercised her house in the name of Jesus and everything felt very normal again.
And then the dog stopped barking at me.
Successful.
Wow.
I mean, that was it.
It was just, you know, I plead the blood of Jesus over this house and get out Satan and all.
You know what I mean?
Did you speak in tongues as a Pentecostal?
Oh yeah.
That was my bread and butter.
Can you still do it or not?
I mean, I got it.
I got it.
Like you got to get into the mindset.
You know, people are asking us to do a speaking tongues.
Oh, the tongues off.
Yeah.
It's been a while.
I got, I got to pray.
I got to pray.
Right.
Please.
Jesus.
Come into our eyes.
Yeah.
It'll sound like that.
We're swear we're speaking Aramaic.
It feels, it's one of those things where like, I will say that there is a difference from when I do it.
Like when I speak in tongues like that and there have been moments where I've been like really caught up in the emotional, the music of the time or something.
And then they come out kind of differently.
Like it seems more kind of pronounced.
It's almost you end up in this hypnotic state.
I have experiences like that.
Yeah.
Someone said, shoulda bota honda.
Shoulda bota kia.
The thing about that is we had, what's a, we had Emily on Faro Pass's wife.
Come on.
And she said that she never kind of spoke.
She didn't speak in tongues or whatever.
And I thought she was speaking in tongues.
Shoulda bota honda.
Shoulda bota kia.
So I start speaking in tongues like, oh yeah.
And she's bantering.
She didn't know much about me.
And she's like, so you, so you afterwards she's like, so you're a, you're an atheist, but you still find tongues useful.
I'm like, what?
No, I was just like playing along with you.
And she's like, oh, I said shoulda bota honda.
Coulda bota kia.
And I was like, oh, it was really, it was really, it's on the deep, it's on deep drinks.
You can watch the.
Oh no.
But I got to see you.
She's like, I was just, she must have just been thinking like who is this person that I've got.
Yeah.
David's still got it.
Yeah.
That's it.
I am a bit, I am a bit iffy about doing that sometime.
It's just because I don't want to like offend anyone's.
It's like, it's almost like drawing Muhammad, you know, like it's almost like it's very sacred to some people.
And I hope that if people have lasted this long, I hope that they're not offended.
The way that I really like to think about it is just like this is like the spirit speaking.
And so it's, it's this idea that I don't have to, I can still pray without thinking of the words to say.
Yeah, exactly.
It was just like honoring God verbally without having to put it into English.
You know, it was, it was almost like a way to paint with sound.
I guess that makes sense.
Like the way I always understood it was like the, the, the like God had like, you see another story of Moses, right?
In the, in the desert, right?
God, God tells Moses speak to the rock and it will pour forth water and he doesn't.
He hits it with his staff twice or once and water pours out.
And then God says to him, because you did that, you're never going to see the promised land, right?
And the concept was, I used to say to people, even back then, God was trying to show us the power of our words, that we have life and death in the power of our tongue, right?
And sometimes we don't know what to pray for.
So then, so then the Holy Spirit through us will communicate these things because like, I guess, I guess the Pentecost Christianity that I was a part of, like we believe that, that it wasn't God necessarily intervening on our behalf to like do something.
But he'd given us the Holy Spirit that we needed to command to go do things, right?
Like that was like the concept.
Like, so you got to someone and say, like, if you know, you raise them out of a wheelchair or whatever, or you do something like you pray for healing, but you got into our actions.
That's how I always understood it.
Daniel is asking, I thought someone, when someone spoke in tongues, there was supposed to be another person inspired with the translation.
That not right?
That's 100% right.
So the thing that I would do is I, we're all kind of, we say slain in the spirit and we're feeling the moving of the Holy Spirit.
So we're all individually praying and everyone's praying.
So everyone's just kind of quietly praying and that's when I would speak in tongues.
It wasn't like a really out loud kind of thing.
Most of us were speaking in tongues, right?
The only time that it was really translated is when somebody was doing it really loud.
And they would like, they would go and like grab the mic and just start going for it.
And then somebody would shout it like, oh, I am God and I say to my people, blah, blah, blah.
So somebody would have to translate it.
And I felt really frustrated with it because I thought when that guy was speaking in tongues, I thought God was saying X.
But then this person who's translating is saying Y.
Therefore that person is just doing it for attention.
They're not actually speaking of the Holy Spirit.
They're not really there to translate.
How dare they take this holy time and turn it into some vain glorious thing about themselves.
Like I was just really sour grapes about it.
Not that I was going to translate or anything, but just I thought it was very, you know, don't pray to be public.
You know what I mean?
Don't pray to look the best.
We're all privately speaking in tongues.
Why do you got to be the one that grabs the mic and has to go all for it?
And then somebody else has to pray.
Excuse me, I'm still praying over here.
Why do you get to shut down everybody and we all have to hush and listen to you go blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And somebody else say, I am the Lord who speaks to you.
It was always a woman.
Never suffered to be speaking in a church anyway.
I don't know.
I wasn't a pastor, I was a bass player, so it's okay.
The support of the man in the background.
The more I learn about you, we're new friends.
I don't know the whole of it, but the more I learn about you, the more I'm like okay.
Half all plays bass like cool stuff.
God put us in each other's lives.
Yeah, that's it.
We're just, this is a good time before we jump into the last section.
Let me just get back here.
I want people to go subscribe to Miss Lemon.
She's got an amazing channel.
Go check it out.
You do some really cool stuff including, I responded, you do some food and drink challenges.
What do you do?
You ate expired protein bars.
And I responded with, are you okay?
Because why are you doing this to yourself?
I think in the middle of that video, I was like, why is this my humor?
I'm not the type of person that gives a whole lot of to do about it.
I'm like, here's what we're doing.
And then I smell it and this smells spoiled.
And I just take a big bite and I'm chewing it.
Only a couple times that I have to really spit anything out.
I puked a little bit.
It's not, it's like kind of off camera.
So don't worry, it's nothing like that.
But otherwise I like to just try stuff.
There's one that's like Korean snowflake strawberries.
But there's another one that's like eating tarantula in Cambodia, which is amazing.
It was so good.
It was so good.
I was like, this can't be terrible.
People eat it.
I do have some bugs that I have to eat.
So I bought a bunch of bugs that I was going to do for a video and I just haven't.
So I'd like to do it.
So I have a five day weekend coming up.
But yeah, I really like those videos.
This one, okay, the fire noodles one, they were so disappointing that I got hot sauce.
It just like sprayed it all over them.
And it was, there's intestines and pig skin.
There's chicken feet.
Microwave intestines and microwave chicken feet.
So you've got essentially like, you've got like, you know, science, religious thought, you know, psychology, and then you've got like gross mukbang, essentially.
I love your, I love the diversity of your channel.
We'd like to do it.
We're currently in talks about reading one of these together, these chitra.
Yeah, for sure.
Coming on and doing a reading because you're a fan and let me show you, I am a fan.
I collect them.
So this is a box full of, I mean, I'm sure you gave them out at one point, right?
No, no, never.
I had my mother had my mother had some and I just got a variety pack.
Yeah, I got a big variety pack and they paid for half the postage because they thought I was.
Doing ministry work.
It's like, oh, you're going to pay half the postage.
The hours were.
Yeah, but I received one.
So I feel like it came full circle because I used to leave them everywhere and then I got one from somebody in Finland.
And let me just tell you, they thought that the US failed to be a religious country that the US wasn't religious enough because they changed how they pronounced Christmas.
That it's not Christmas.
Ah, yes.
That's that's why the US is like the least religious Christian country.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
I'm not sure if you've done this one, but there is one I really want to do on Dungeons and Dragons.
Have you done that one yet?
Let's do it.
Let's let's let's get all the process that let's be orcs and just go for it.
Well, yeah, let's do it.
I'll do the prosthetics or whatever.
But the Dungeons and Dragons episode, the book, I know the story a little bit that essentially like people play Dungeons and Dragons.
Yeah.
One person ends up taking it too far and then her character lives and she thinks I must might as well kill myself in real life.
That's it.
Ultimate rage quit.
Yeah.
So yeah, I was thinking about that just today, like how my mom was like, oh, you're going to learn how to do the casting spells.
I'm like, I learned how to roll dice and look up a chart.
And I think that was part of it.
Like I took everything so seriously that I wanted to investigate everything.
And so when I investigated D&D, it was like really fun and very boring in that sense.
Like it wasn't like magic.
It's a list.
It's a chart.
Okay.
But it was, it was, oh, you're going to turn to the devil.
And I'm just like, how?
How could I turn to how?
And so these things were really frustrating to me because I felt like, you know, we're just being those Christians.
We're not being true Christians.
We're just being reactionary.
We're not looking into anything.
I'll investigate deeper because I really want to build my relationship with God.
And then some years later, goodbye.
I remember, I remember like we're going through really bad season of depression in my life.
And I got introduced to weed at the age of this supple young age of 23 or 22.
And I was smoking weed with a friend in the garage.
And this girl that I liked at the time was like, hey, why don't we go watch hostel or horror movie?
And I was like thinking myself, I can't do that.
I'll get, I'll get influenced by demonic spirits.
I'm sitting here smoking weed in the garage.
Like we're on my priorities, but yeah, the church is some fun stuff.
Also you have a Twitter account.
Yes.
This lemon here and you post some fun stuff.
This one's a good one today.
This could be my mother.
Someone got a metal straw.
I can't believe you.
I hope they haven't influenced your faith in Jesus.
Why does that have to do with my faith?
You're changing towards the left.
I just want to save sea turtles.
Yeah.
My downfall according to my parents was going to college because that's when they indoctrinate you with evolution.
You know, since I was studying like civil engineering and stuff.
All the evolution I had.
I don't think I even took a biology class.
You just know the fun biology.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Exactly cryptids.
Yeah.
And just before, just before we dump back into the conspiracy chart.
I did want to get out because this is what triggered me.
You said marriage, right?
Like the Bible.
Next week we have, I believe she's a Christian, but doctor doesn't really matter.
Dr. Jennifer Burton.
Doctor doesn't really matter.
Well, it doesn't matter if she's a Christian or not, but she writes about Christianity a lot.
And she's a Bible scholar and she talks about gender, sexuality, marriage.
We're going to have her on.
She's going to be the last person we have one before we do the panel,
which is the panel of like biblical scholars will be talking about the slavery.
So I want to give a shout out actually come next week.
It's going to be a good episode.
I can't wait to pick her brain.
She's been so gracious with her time.
She came on to promote the stream.
She's going to be on the panel and she's going to be doing an episode with me all in within the space of two weeks.
So I love Dr. Jennifer Bird.
She is one of my new favorite people.
All right.
Let's jump back into this conspiracy chart.
Yeah, let's do it.
Should we cross the cross the line, the last line?
Also wounded monk mentioned creating a character in D&D was way too intense.
By the way, when I was Christian, my D&D was always Jesus.
Oh, really?
My friends accepted it.
They just accepted it.
And so one of them just went was like whatever.
My God's the Kool-Aid guy.
So our D&M was like fine.
You guys have like bonuses or certain bonus.
So then he got the Kool-Aid guy.
God got a bonus to bursting through walls.
So like I roll to a wall or something.
And so he would get like a strength bonus.
Wait, I.
They were good.
They really put on something.
I had some I once convinced.
I convinced my wife Amy to come on and in the main campaign.
She played a fairy, but we did this one shot.
This one time where everyone could choose.
It was just a one shot.
So like one session or one or two sessions and everyone could choose just anyone they wanted.
And we had like some UFC boxer.
We had someone who was Arianna Grande, my little brother.
He chose to be Wes Wally.
So he had like the ability to like make little circles and go through walls and stuff.
And Amy, my wife was Karen from.
She was a played a bar and she was Karen from mean girls.
You know, the one who like can feel the weather with her boobs and she does that like dance.
So she would do that dance, but as a bar and yeah, it was great.
It was great.
It's all recorded.
So it was real fun.
That sounds that sounds way awesome.
Yeah, we got to definitely do the dark dungeons.
That's the that's the title of the shit tracks.
Yeah.
I got the best knowledge in here.
So I have let's cross the anti-Semitic point of no return.
And it's so funny how they all end up being anti-Semitic.
It's gratification.
Here we go.
So we have at the very top.
QAnon, Flat Earth, Sandy Hook fake, secret satanic rituals, Jewish space lasers,
which I can't believe there's a representative in U.S. politics that believes that.
Proto protocols of the elders of Zion.
Yep.
Deep state Nazis on the moon.
Yes, I know that one.
Is there Nazis that would use the bell to travel through time?
No.
Okay.
That's there too.
Oh wow.
Rothschild central bank.
A lot of sorry.
I should say a lot of my friends believe some of this stuff.
Nisara.
I don't know what that is.
I don't know what Nisara is either.
Illuminati reptilian overlords.
Trans agenda.
Yeah.
So those are the trans investigators.
That's it.
Trans investigators.
Holocaust denial.
New World Order.
Adrenochrome.
Yep.
Cultural Marxism.
The Great Replacement.
George Floyd crisis actor.
Bill Gates depopulation.
Hollywood is turning your kids gay and hollow earth.
Yeah.
The only one that I consider fun is hollow earth.
The rest of them are actually just getting really sad.
Like.
There's the ones that I don't get are the ones about like the depopulation.
There's a few of those.
They say it's from agenda 24.
I think it is from some something from the UN.
And it's basically just this idea of like, hey,
we need sustainable development and we don't know what that is.
The guys.
Maybe want to agree to that.
And people were like, I guess whatever that's that's all it is.
But if you if you ask the people that believe in it.
It's like they want to depopulate the planet to bring it down to a billion people.
And they say that they want to control us and use us as like,
you know, cogs in their machine to make money and depopulation.
But if there's more of us, they would make more money.
why
because there evil
and then would like yell at me
because they reference
it must be like their inher reverse
if it's confirmed
in the thing i gotta say
isa ty
excited
It must be like they're inherently evil or something and like because they're inherently evil they want to do evil things like I, I don't.
Yeah, I don't know.
So one one person was asking about adrenochrome so this is sort of if you go to the thing and it's about the secret satanic cabal.
So it's this some belief that in the US government it's it's run by a secret satanic cabal that through pizza gate which was supposed to be harming children.
It was to harvest their blood, especially while they're scared so they can take their adrenaline and convert it into adrenochrome and then ingest it or injected into their blood or rub it on their skin.
So that way they could.
It's like an anti aging thing, which adrenochrome exists it just it doesn't do anything because it's like it's like your body it's like like where my my like my lifting nerds at like creatine one of the problems with creatine as a liquid.
It's not very shelf stable they may have made some progress since I've, you know, use it a lot, but I still use the powder.
Because what happens is it converts it like it'll be not the nature but it basically breaks down to creatine and your body doesn't use creatine because your body breaks it down into creatine to your body can use creatine, not creatine.
And it's the same thing you can use adrenaline which can use adrenochrome like in the way that they will explain it.
So it's just like what are you using it for.
Why would you want to train a girl just to take adrenaline like what do you know just just do Botox like.
You know, you're good like what's this answer like what that's a lot of work to not go to Botox, you know what I mean and have you seen our political people they do not yeah useful they look kind of like you know clown ish you know.
There's a lot of people who believe they've heard audio of Hillary Clinton like killing and murdering children and stuff like you're like.
It's like it reminds me a little bit of that um do you remember back in the day there was that the noises from hell like thing going around.
Do you ever do you ever hear that was was it was it one of the noises like the deep water noise type thing.
Let me let me just share it on my on my other on my other channel.
Let me see if I can find it on you should to come slash at post faith we did this panel on hell deconstructing through of hell is kind of like the first panel I ever ran ever but would now bring them to deep drinks but.
It's a let me just find it.
But there was this thing that was going on calls.
I might not have the actual.
I don't have it sorry.
That's all right where did they say that they they got it from like recorded it like somebody went to hell and sent it.
Yeah, there are some people that claim to have photos of heaven.
Yeah, I think let me just find yeah.
Oh, a Russian hole that they made 12 kilometers to you.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
It's like screams.
Is it paratolia.
I'll play it if we can find it.
It's from a movie like it's the call is super deep.
Let me just see if this is it.
Okay, it's so stupid.
I hope this isn't if you if you are like a seriously now if you are someone who's deconstructing your fear of hell or whatever and this is not true.
You just don't listen for the next like two minutes.
But yeah, it's it can be.
I'll do I'll do this when we're done listening to.
Okay.
It is a bit spooky but it's been totally too much.
It's not like a real real thing like why would hell be why could you hear hell anyway.
Don't worry.
Hollow earth man.
Tell me if you can hear this.
Can everyone hear this.
Hang on.
Can everyone hear that.
I had something for half a second, but not.
I can't hear it.
Okay, let me just find a way to.
I got to present it in a specific way.
Right.
We go.
Now now I'll have it.
Yeah.
Okay, so this is the apparently the super deep borehole in Russia the hell sounds right.
I love the background.
So that's enough of that, but you can see people in the chat in the in the comments are like, holy shit, this is actually terrifying.
Fun fact.
They use the sound and put the Mr. Incredible.
I don't know what that is, but they there are people in here that actually believe this like that actual real thing.
Real nice.
That's unfortunate.
It's really not.
It's from a movie.
It's been it's been like that when I heard it.
I just thought like the event horizon.
Yeah, but there are people out there who actually, you know, they get tricked into believing that the world is out to kill them.
That hell is real.
That you're born in that Jesus is the only way out.
Yeah, it sounds like Smith Haven Mall.
So I have some questions for you.
Actually, do we want to touch one last conspiracy theory?
I feel like we got to touch one last.
Okay, so some people I was looking up the Nessara.
So it looks like it's I don't have all the facts on it.
But it's the National Economic Security Recovery Act and they have this like dove of oneness.
So if I'm going to take a guess, it has to do with the government manipulating something about our money or economy in order to get like a new world order.
This idea of like oneness.
They don't like that.
Can I ask why do you think people are scared of a one world government?
I think Christians are scared of a one world government because they believe it's like one step closer to the coming of the Antichrist, which for me, you know, to tap back into my old Christian ways that would have been great because then that means rapture like in five years.
So I don't understand what the problem like what do you not want to get raptured like.
Yeah, from like a pragmatic standpoint, like, like, let's say it's like, all right, you know, the whole world is united.
And I don't know, like, but it's like, why are you scared of the rapture?
If you're like, don't you want the end of the world?
Like that was the thing we were always so excited about the end of the world and stuff.
But it was weird like we would have stockpiles of food because of the the mark of the beast and you can't do any buying or selling if you don't take the mark of the beast.
So we don't know when that's going to come.
But maybe it's going to come in the year 2000.
So we better stockpile tons and tons and tons of soup and stuff, which OK.
But like, are we supposed to be raptured by then?
Yeah.
Did we did we forget that?
So it's just it's so weird.
It's like how, you know, I used to be kind of loose with some of my safety because I was just like, if I die, I get to go to heaven faster.
So it was just don't you want the new world order to happen?
Like, isn't that what we want?
So it's just kind of weird to me.
Yeah, but that's that's what they're afraid of.
If it's if it's like the Christian conspiracy theory, that's that's what they're afraid of.
They're also afraid of like the Jews controlling everything.
The Jews are going to put them into poverty, you know, that kind of thing.
Yeah, the JWs got real scared with the League of Nations in the U.N. form.
Absolutely, even though don't they have like a library or something funded by the U.N.
I don't know.
But they had they predicted the end of the world like about 50 times and some silly.
Sorry, go.
Oh, Nitty was saying, let Satan play so Jesus can have his day.
Yeah, absolutely.
Melody Joyce said rapture anxiety is real.
The second and third chapters of Revelation is Jesus telling the churches that he was pissed about.
I thought some Christians would have would be left behind.
Yeah, I was a little confused about the 144,000 until you realize.
And then we I did a reading of the Book of Enoch on my channel.
And there's like there's just one playlist for the Book of Enoch.
So if anyone's interested.
But it was really interesting because basically there's like a waiting room, you know,
and that's what Judgment Day is in Islam and in Christianity and Judaism too.
Judgment Day is the day that God judges you and then you go to afterlife.
So, you know, you're not anywhere.
That's why it's rest in peace because they didn't believe your soul did anything when you died because it wasn't Judgment Day yet.
So this idea of like the 144,000 at first didn't make sense to me.
But then it's like, OK, there's they're going to heaven.
The rest of us are going to New Earth, which is why I didn't understand why my parents hated the JWs
who's talked about the New Earth.
Isn't that what there was?
Revelation says that's we're going.
So why are the JWs wrong for saying so?
Why do you think we're we're not going to heaven?
What are you talking about?
It's not wrong because they believe Jesus has died on a stake instead of a cross.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, it wasn't vegan.
That's the reason.
So something.
Something that.
What was it going to say?
It was super amazing and inspirational.
God's dangly bits.
Oh, yes, it's interesting in Revelation.
So just to just to touch on what what Melody Joy was saying.
So in revelations, like it's well known in biblical scholarship that 666 is referencing Nero.
Like it's well, well, well, well known.
Right.
And like even in even in biblical prophecies, like biblical prophecies aren't supposed to happen.
I think they're even.
I'm not sure if they're there are like laws, but they're not supposed to take more than two generations.
Right.
So like the story revelations, it's like it's done and gone.
It's not going to happen.
It didn't happen.
Not only that, but like Jesus told his disciples that he would return in their lifetimes.
It says as clear as day.
If you can translate Jesus saying, I tell you the truth, people standing here shall not taste death until they see all these things coming.
And I tell you the truth, this generation shall not pass away until all these things happen.
If you can translate that, that to be, I tell you the truth, this generation will pass away and all these things won't happen for 2000 plus years.
If you can translate it to be the exact opposite, then why not say, Oh, actually, when Jesus died on the cross, he actually didn't.
He never went on the cross.
It's the exact opposite of whatever it says.
So it's not that Jesus is coming back.
Jesus didn't come back.
Yeah.
Like the prophecy failed 2000 years ago.
Like he was supposed to return within his disciples' lifetime.
Fight me.
Bring me on and debate me about this because I will.
I'm very passionate about this.
But yeah, there's just two things I want to mention about the end times and revelations before we kind of close it.
Oh, for sure.
Sorry.
So I always miss lemon.
You've been amazing to talk to.
And it's been a very casual stream.
Oh, yeah.
People have enjoyed it, especially all the new subscribers.
Thank you for coming out.
It's been really awesome.
I asked guests at the end some questions and I asked them like kind of repeating questions and some questions that I kind of do.
And they kind of questions that are pondering things.
But the deep questions, deep drinks, deep questions.
Okay, let's do it.
Here's the first one.
No more cryptids.
Regarding, we'll talk about I guess your most foundational beliefs.
I guess like we'll talk about your God belief.
Okay, I'll ask this question in relation to your God belief.
What if anything would change your mind?
I know there's that question that answer that people give that has to do with.
Oh, well, if God's real, he would know.
I think it's if I don't have a problem if we kind of figure out what a God is, like if we could find a thing that created us, for example, whatever that is.
And we say, yeah, that's our creator God.
Like if it's a programmer or something, you know, if we do live in a simulation, right, which is what tier two or something on that conspiracy list.
I would say, you know, hey, programmer, can you program a fresh beer and then a fresh beer shows up.
And be like, okay, well programmer, can you program me seated but like a meter up and then I'm a meter up.
I would say the program was real.
You know what I mean?
I this wouldn't be like Yahweh of the Torah.
You know, this would be whatever we decided was like whatever created us.
So I think anything that we can interact with in that way that could prove that it has this ability to totally manipulate our reality in a way that we actually can't on command.
And I think that that would be enough.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Do you know the analogy of the I think it's Carl Sagan's analogy of the dragon in the garage.
Have you heard about that?
The one where it's like the invisible dragon like I don't show it to you.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So it's like just for everyone listening.
So the concept is essentially like, if there's a dragon, like if I say to you like, hey, I've got a dragon in my garage.
And you're like, let's go see it.
And we go in the nice.
And then there's nothing there.
And I say, oh, it's invisible.
And you say, oh, let me put powder on the floor so we can see it's footsteps.
I mean, oh, actually it can't move.
It can't move.
I can't make footsteps.
It's invisible and it can't make footsteps.
It's like, well, touch it.
Well, actually it flies around the room to every different corner of the room.
So you can never actually touch it.
It's like, well, let's use the heat gun to see it's like actually the fire that it produces is actually the same temperature as the air.
Eventually you get so far, so far in that the like so, so many, you do so many investigations that a room with a dragon looks exactly the same as a room without a dragon.
And I feel like that's the same when it comes to the God belief.
Like we've got, you know, where do you think the sun goes at night?
And then it's like, we start to explain more and more of the universe.
And it's like, eventually like we no longer need God to explain this.
Of course, we don't have, we don't have answers to questions like, where did everything come from before, you know, before, even if, even if before is a sensical word for before the big bang.
Where did, how did life first start?
But it doesn't seem likely to me at least that the answer is God.
There's too many leaps and logic there.
And it seems lazy to just go, God, like it seems intellectually lazy.
I think in my case, it's just, well, why did we assume God, you know, it's like, okay, well, because I'm talking to some people on this, this Muslim channel, I forget exactly what it's called, but it's on, it's on Instagram too.
And, you know, I'm just asking the question of, well, why do we assume that Allah is the one that, you know, makes the babies form and keeps the birds afloat, you know, that kind of stuff.
And they explain, well, because, you know, we have faith or that it says so in the Quran and all this other stuff.
And I'm just like, well, yeah, but why did we, why did we assume that, you know, especially with this idea of like the Abrahamic God, which is inherently intangible and unknowable in so many ways on purpose.
If we don't know God and we, that's part of his defining trait is we don't know him, then how can we say all the things that he does and has his hands in, if we also say we have no idea what he's doing, that just never made sense to me.
Well, he works in mysterious ways, but I know he made this thing happen.
Well, how do you know that?
Even as a Christian that didn't make sense to me, it's like, well, you know, and I didn't understand like the purpose of praying for stuff.
Because it's like, oh Lord, but your will be done.
Okay, well, if I'm going to say that girl, then why am I praying?
His will is going to be done anyway as regardless if I say so or not.
I don't have any control over God, so what am I praying for?
So none of this just kind of started to fall apart when I really wanted to understand it better, you know, and it just didn't make a whole lot of sense to me.
So it's like, how could God be inherently unknowable, but I'm going to tell you all the stuff that he totally does.
How do I know that?
Because I know, well, how do you know?
Because it says, well, I mean, how did the person who wrote it down know?
Because God says, how do you know what's God?
How do you know it wasn't Satan tricking the person?
And it's totally not true.
How do we know that?
What are your thoughts on like, because I imagine as a Pentecostal Christian, you would say that you experienced God, right?
That you felt the presence of God.
So what are your thoughts around that?
Like now, like looking back, do you think it was like a little bit of placebo or hysteria or like a hypnotic state that you get put in?
Yeah, I think it's expecting something to happen.
So you get so worked up about it that it does kind of happen.
A really good example of it is we would say, you know, we remember Benny Hinn.
Yeah.
Yeah, so my grandmother had a knee problem and she was Catholic.
So we took her to this Benny Hinn event and she got out of her wheelchair and she was on stage and he was like, oh, and the power of, you know, and then touched her and she just stepped back a little bit.
And so he pushed her a little bit harder and she stumbled back again and she does it a third time.
She stumbles again.
So they just take her off.
And I look at my mom like three times and you're out.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I'm like, how come God didn't cure grandma?
How come she didn't fall down?
And mom said this thing.
I don't think she realized what this did to me.
She said, grandma didn't fall down because she didn't know she had to fall down.
But I thought the power of God knocked you over.
And I was like a child at this point, you know.
So that was really, really weird.
But I think that really explains it well.
We kind of behave in a way that I've even heard other people who went to Pentecostal churches and didn't.
And like they got pulled into the line to be like touched by the power of God and they didn't feel anything.
But they still fell down because they were really worried.
Like what's going to happen to like, am I going to be sacrificed if they don't do it?
So then you see as a Pentecostal, oh, the power of God is so powerful that even this atheist who's here for the first time, even that atheist fell down with the power of God.
Oh, and so you get even more worked up.
But the thing is, I don't know what tizzy or frenzy, you know.
I don't understand how the presence of God, like so when you say presence, we're talking about.
Like we have to, you have to unpack that a little bit.
And so we're going a little bit over time everyone, but this is a bit of a casual stream like I mentioned.
And I hope everyone's having a good time.
But we're like the presence of God.
So God is literally in the room.
Like his presence is there.
How can someone not experience the presence of the creator of the universe?
You can't just say to me like, oh, well, their hearts were closed off.
Right.
How come my heart can be closed off to the presence of God?
Like if I go to heaven when I die and my heart's closed off, can I just not experience heaven?
And like, like it just seems weird to me.
It paints God to be small.
Do you know what I mean?
Yeah.
Eventually I got really burned down this idea church because, you know, what it said in like first Corinthians 110.
Be, be, be one mind brethren and let there be no divisions among you.
And I really took that to heart.
I mean, even reading that as a 16 year old and being 41 and still being able to just quote it right away.
You can see how much I took that to heart.
I thought, well, then why are we here?
And, you know, in this church as Pentecostals.
I started really questioning that and why, why did the pastor have to explain to me his thoughts about disparate verses put together and to make a message about today's politics.
I'm here to learn about God.
I'm here to learn about the history of my religion.
I'm here to learn about what God has done and prophecy.
I'm not here to listen to what you think about church gossip.
You know, and I just thought this was really weird.
Why are we picking two verses and then the rest of the hour is you talking like how come we're not reading out of the Bible.
And if we're not reading out of the Bible, then how come I'm not reading out of the Bible and then wait a minute, Paul didn't have a Bible.
Moses didn't have a Bible.
They just had a direct connection with God.
So what's even the purpose of the Bible.
So once I had been reading the Bible and I'm like, I don't really get this and I was reaching out asking for help and stuff.
Like one of the problems I have was about Moses and how the spirit of God sought to kill him.
So he ran into his house and his wife like circumcised their baby real fast and like threw the foreskin on Moses' feet and God was like, whoa, foreskin.
Okay, I won't kill you now.
And I was like, what does this doesn't make sense.
I don't remember that pot.
Yeah, it's like if God's going to kill Moses, then isn't he going to kill him.
If he sought to kill him, he's going to kill him.
And the pastor said, oh, you're absolutely right.
But you have to remember God didn't write the Bible.
Moses wrote this part.
And so from Moses' perspective, that's what God was doing because he felt really guilty.
And I was like, wait a minute, wait a minute.
Somebody's perspective.
Well, wait, wait, because from somebody else's perspective, the hurricane Katrina killed people because they were evil.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
What do you mean the Bible's from somebody else's perspective?
That's when I thought when all this stuff wasn't making sense to me when I was studying the Bible, I asked because it's filtered through some idiot.
Well, okay, I'll just get rid of the Bible and then I'll just have a direct connection with God.
You know, I don't need the Bible.
Moses didn't need the Bible.
Paul didn't need the Bible.
We don't need the Bible either.
So I'm the Christian that's like got the connection with God.
Like I thought I was getting closer to God this whole time.
I was like becoming more and more an atheist.
My mom was really upset and I tried to explain it to her and she just was so upset about it.
Yeah, it was really ridiculous.
That's incredible.
Ryan said, why would God harden Pharaoh's heart?
Excuse me, you're not allowed to ask questions like that.
They're too logical.
No, I'll tell you the answer.
I know the answer to this.
Yeah, there's an answer.
The answer is, we can ask him when we meet him.
Oh, no, the answer was so he could perform his miracles to show the people of Egypt that he is God, which to me was always.
Well, how can we doesn't like fill everyone's belly with food to show that he's God?
How can we doesn't like pyramids built to show he's God?
Why is it got to be like murdering the children and like why is that the power he's going to show?
Like if I'm going to show a power and I can do anything, you're all getting a cat.
Like just boom, everyone's got the best cat.
You know, I'm not going to like kill all the cats.
Why would I do that?
Yeah, it's like, like, oh, you guys are working really hard in the field locusts.
Like, oh, you're taking care of your skin doing the skin care little Egyptian boils.
Like, why would I do that?
How is that showing my power?
A big thing for me is animal suffering.
Like, like, you know, like something it's like a lot of Christians will go.
Oh, well, you know, suffering is bad, but you have to take in the whole Christian worldview,
which is that you get to go to heaven afterwards.
Well, not not animals and animals like suffer like incredibly.
Dr. Josh panelist said, can I be honest deep drinks podcast?
I think the reason Yahweh almost killed Moses was because he failed to ground the instantiation of necessary preconditions of ultimacy.
So that's a meme that he always post.
Okay.
So just quickly, I want to keep saying quickly, but this strength is going on.
I'm not upset.
Awesome.
That's good.
I've got two more questions, but just touch on the placebo effect.
This is a clip from the sources minefield, right?
And this clip actually changed my wife Amy's perspective.
So she watched this and then she thought to herself,
what if the things that I experienced in church was just this?
So I don't think I can play the audio because it's like premium content,
but this person has been told that they're going to,
they're going to have a new type of noninvasive surgery,
which looks inside of them with a special laser and measures their bone density, right?
And they've been primed with all this information.
And it's just a laser pointer pen, no heat, nothing.
Right.
They've put them in this room.
They've like done everything up.
The crisis actors in there.
And they get them to describe the pain levels.
And these actors, they're not these actors.
These people say they got up to level nine.
They say it's almost the most excruciating pain I've ever felt.
And it's all just no sebo such placebo effect.
And it was happened time and time again.
You prime someone and they're crying and they can't even like even after some people,
even after they were told it was placebo,
they couldn't stop feeling the pain.
And it was just a simple laser pointer pen with no ability to cause heat or distress in any way.
Incredible what your mind can do when you are primed to believe something.
100%, 100%.
And it's really amazing in the one factor.
Like I had a mild concussion, had a couple of them,
but this one was, it really affected my taste.
And we think about taste being located in the tongue.
No, it's located in the brain.
We think of touch located on the finger.
It's located in your brain.
And that's what we kind of forget.
You know what I mean?
We don't really think of it that way.
But that's where it is.
And so it's amazing how we can do this to ourselves.
It's powerful if you can trick yourself sometimes.
Cause like when I get like cats are fighting,
when I get like a really bad migraine and stuff cause I get these chronic migraines,
I tell myself, alright, this pill will only take five minutes to work,
even though I know it doesn't.
And I'm like, yep, I can feel it.
Oh, I can feel it.
It's tingling.
And like I tell myself all of this just to try to tap into that a little bit.
But it's kind of hard to trick yourself when you know the trick.
But yeah, that's definitely where this comes from is you're really just really expecting it.
I did something like that with my students too.
I took food coloring and I told them that I got a bunch of different sprites imported from the U.S.
and I wanted them to guess the flavor.
So I did, one was just sprite and then the other one was red sprite, orange sprite and purple sprite.
And the students, there were only three of them and they disagreed what it was supposed to be.
But the third student kept saying, I don't really taste anything.
I think this just tastes like sprite.
And the other ones were like, are you kidding?
This is strawberry.
Oh, you're stupid.
This is obviously cherry flavored.
Oh my God, can you not taste it?
Even the purple one, they were like, oh, this is cola flavored sprite.
No, what are you talking about?
It's great flavored sprite.
I had no idea someone would say cola.
I thought they both would say great.
Oh, it tastes like medicine.
So no, just cola versus grape.
The other one was like, it just tastes like sprite.
I'm going to get my conspiracy theory friends around it.
I'm going to do this experiment.
I'm going to like, all right, let's see how your perceptions go.
Wow, that's brilliant.
You're a great teacher, I can tell.
Thanks.
It was a lot of fun.
But the big problem, watching those people cry and they were having trouble even after they were told it was a placebo,
that's kind of going back to what I said about how we don't question our perception too much.
I know what I felt.
Yeah, you felt your brain being tricked.
But we don't, we don't accept that.
I know that I wouldn't do this.
I'm not that stupid.
People think it's stupid.
It's not stupid.
It's a human, totally human thing, placebo fact, you know.
It's very ridiculous.
Yeah.
It's, yeah.
I wish I knew more about it, but second question, second last question,
what is the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in?
Possibly true in which way?
In which way?
What do you mean?
Well, just plausibly true, like plausibly accurate representation of reality.
Let me tell you why my question is a great question.
Because Christians can answer this and Hindus can answer this because they have to choose the religion that's second most likely to be true.
I'm guessing they would say like Islam and stuff because that's what I would have said as a Christian or Judaism or Jews for Jesus.
But yeah, I think, you know what, I'm going to be weird and I'm not being funny.
It's the star seeds, that belief that people think that they are different alien souls being placed into human bodies to have a shared experience on this planet encountering other beings.
I just feel like if aliens exist, this would sort of be like that movie, what's it called?
It was Bruce Willis and they had like avatars that they walked around in.
It starts with an S, synthetic or something.
I'm sure somebody knows what I'm talking about.
I just watched it like two weeks ago.
But basically so you could afford to have a robot like version of you that looked better and stuff.
It was like VR but you had this robot walking around and you can feel the sensations it felt and stuff.
I feel like that seems plausible for an alien race to do.
And so that to me just seems the most likely that we would be aliens just chilling on a planet that we decided to hang out like, oh yeah, let's meet.
This is our discord server is Earth and we're all just trapped in these human bodies just as a joke like Sims or something.
We just chose to do it but we forgot.
To me I guess that would be the most.
That's interesting.
Most people that I've asked that a Christian like Michael Jones said Buddhism I think.
A lot of them say Buddhism.
Most people say Buddhism because I think it's the most non-theistic of religions.
I think you can be a Buddhist.
Yeah, it depends on which version of Buddhism.
Yeah, there's some very.
What I do like is I do like Buddhist hell because there is a version of Buddhism.
The hell is a temporary place that helps you burn off the karma if you couldn't do it.
That's kind of horrible.
Still horrible.
Definitely not a good thing.
It's better than eternal punishment for finite crimes.
By the way, the movie surrogates.
By the way, that's what it was.
Surrogates, yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, there you go.
Megan Ness says surrogates too.
Okay, good.
Yeah, it's the Buddhism one.
You still got to go with the idea of a soul.
You got to go with this idea of like a karma tracker.
I don't know.
To me, that's just religion minus a God sometimes.
You know what I mean?
And it seems very selfish the way that I interpret a lot of the Buddhist practices about like not.
Yeah, like the whole idea is that to separate yourself from society and not leave a positive or negative karma footprint essentially.
So you're just kind of by yourself doing your own thing.
You don't contribute to society anymore.
You're just by yourself meditating and hopefully you can meditate yourself to death and that's enlightenment.
It just seems very self-seeking to me.
Yeah, that's the point.
And there's still against gay people for some reason.
Just really weird.
So yeah, that's why the star seed thing just like, you know, there were a bunch of alien surrogates.
So it's kind of like stuff, kind of like Scientology.
So you're Scientology?
No.
So this idea would be more like the movie surrogates.
Like we all agreed to do this.
The Theatons is more like a bunch of alien souls possessed like Neanderthals and humanized this in a way.
And we got to get rid of them.
But yeah, I feel like this is more sci-fi than religion, I guess.
Yeah.
That's just how I see it.
I can see how that could be almost the most probably true religion because as we get more technologically advanced,
you can see, you know, it easily creating a reality like that.
Okay, last last question, last deep drinks question.
What is the best advice you've ever been given?
The best advice.
I don't know, do you have a best advice so I can because that's a that's a big one, you know, because there's like advice for different situations and stuff.
Yeah, it is a big one.
I think the, the, the, um, I guess it's not advice is quote from David Hume.
But I think we can rephrase it if you're stuck with that one because it's not necessarily these aren't necessarily to get an answer that just more to spark.
Right.
In introspective thought process.
But if you could give yourself advice, you know, when you were deconstructing or questioning your faith, what would you, what would you say if you go back in time and give yourself advice?
Yeah, I think, I think what would have helped me faster would be to, to just start from, from neutral and follow the evidence.
And I think that's what took so long because it's been like eight years to de-convert.
And eventually I realized I was, I didn't want to let go of the spiritual experiences that I had until I realized that they were spiritual experiences only because I had assumed the spiritual existed.
And even like in and of themselves, it wasn't a spiritual, like it didn't point to it.
Like if I took a person who didn't have that assumption that it's just that the spiritual realm existed, they would never assume.
Oh yeah, that's evidence of the spiritual.
It would just be like, why do you think that's evidence of the spiritual?
And that's when I had had to realize, wait a minute, you know, what am I doing?
The advice I give to my students though is life sucks.
And then you die.
You got to make the fun while you're here.
So, you know, because sometimes they kind of laugh at me being like a dork, you know, sometimes.
And I'm like, listen, you know, life, life is just going to keep sending you just negative stuff.
Like life is just going to keep happening to me.
If you can find happiness dressing a little funny, just do it.
Laugh at your own jokes, you know, make, make, make the world a place you want to live in because it's not going to happen by itself.
You know, that's why it's all my students, you know, there's no shame in being a little bit weird.
You know, as long as you're not hurting yourself, you're not hurting anybody else, you know, have fun.
Somebody else is staring at you kind of weird.
It's because you're the most interesting thing that happened in their day.
How pathetic, you know, like I had green lipstick on and this lady was like staring at me.
And all I could think was how pathetic is her life that somebody having green lipstick on is the most obscene thing she's encountered today.
What a boring life she must have, you know.
Yeah, and then if you feel like mind reading, because some of the students do that, they're like, oh, people think of me negatively.
I guess yeah, the best advice was from my therapist.
If you're going to pretend that you can read people's minds, make it good.
You know, you can't, you don't know if they look if they're staring at you because they think that you're ugly or if they're staring at you because they think you look like Lady Gaga.
So go with the second one.
You know, they think you're a celebrity.
That's actually great advice.
That's something that I, your first part of advice there was really touched home for me because for me, like wearing him now would have been the worst nightmare for my younger Christian self.
And for me to become that younger Christian self now is my worst nightmare now.
And I was always chasing this like this when I get there, I'll be happy.
I realize like in my older age, I'm now 33.
I'm like almost 10 years older than you there.
You don't look it, but when
I said Asian don't raise it man, Asian don't raise it.
When, yeah, I realized that you got to have fun in the meantime.
Like I'm not, I'm not where I want to be.
That's the point of growth, but like try and enjoy the riot, right?
Right.
And also money is great.
Like don't be poor.
Like I know that's like, like that sounds really bad.
But essentially like I'm not rich by any means, but the most depressed moments in my life were when I was like,
not when I was turning down shifts and being like, and just getting by like bill by after bill after bill.
Having money really, like having the ability to be financially stable was like such a huge, such a huge game changer in my mental health and like for a long period of time.
So like spend a year where you don't have to look at your bank account to see if you can go out to buy food.
You can just go out and buy food, not have to worry about it because all your bills are sorted and you've been saving money.
Yeah.
One, one if he's advised that if somebody's feeling like ending their life, you know, sleep on it, you can kill yourself tomorrow.
You know, that's the thing is that, you know, it's like as long as I don't, if it's still worse by the weekend, I can just do it then.
But if you're going to do it, make it good, you know, so go live in the damn forest, disconnect from the rest of reality and go live in like the mountains of Nepal.
Oh, you don't want to do that yet.
That sounds like a lot of suffering and stuff.
Maybe you're not ready to die yet then.
Yeah.
And so that's kind of kind of how I think about it.
But it's like, you know, you can do it tomorrow.
You can do it over the weekend.
Do you have to do it right this second?
Just wait.
Just, you know, you're always, you always feel better.
You know, you always had that feeling and then it goes away.
There's, there's, it'll go away again.
Yeah.
And that's the thing is like where our brains can trigger so much.
If there isn't anyone who is struggling just, just as you mentioned that if there is anyone who is struggling with mental health issues or thoughts of, you know, suicide or anything, please reach out to someone.
Go see a therapist like it is super important.
I see a therapist, nothing to be ashamed of.
There's nothing wrong with that.
If you were, if you had diabetes, you'd go see a doctor and get some insulin and stuff.
Why is it any different?
Because the organs in your skull.
Yeah, exactly.
It's not, it's not doing the right thing with the chemistry.
It's a problem.
I think people, I think people should go to therapy.
Like I'm an advocate that people should go to therapy just when they're fine.
Yeah.
So just as we wrap up, I just want to share your channel one more time.
Go just subscribe to Miss Lemon and content is awesome.
And in two weeks we have the biggest panel of the in the world.
This will be the go to.
This is the biggest panel in the world ever been done.
Nobel laureates are going to be looking at this.
So these are like all the guys that know the most about slavery.
They're like the slave master.
Yeah, they are the slave master.
They, this is going to be the panel to end all panels on this discussion.
I'm going, there's going to be a million clips of this.
So every time someone gives you some really bad apologetics for why the slavery in the Bible was nice.
Tickly slavery.
It was cool.
You can just clip them a section of this, this interview.
We've got five Bible scholars with expertise in this area who read the original Hebrew.
Katie and Syriac, all that kind of stuff.
This is going to be, this is the stream.
So keep an eye out for that.
This is going to be huge.
Tell everyone that you possibly know.
And we're going to be bringing to task bad apologetics.
So with that said, thank you Miss.
I'm so much for coming on.
It's been an absolute pleasure getting to know you.
And I'd love to come on your channel and do the reading.
And we're going to have so much for this.
Yes.
You know, hail guy gags.
All right.
See you guys.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
