Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcasts for the Drinks Deep and the conversations are
deeper, the deepest podcasts on the internet.
Today I welcome Elliot, also known as Secular Rarity, someone who almost needs no introduction.
You have seen him on Talk Even, Atheist Republic, your friendly neighborhood atheist, skeptic
Haven Tang, heretical hideout discord, the atheist experience, growing up fundy, and
more.
Elliot is a strong advocate for human rights, critical thinking, LGBTQ plus rights, education,
religious freedom, and the separation of church and state.
Today we are drinking the most delicious, I hope, I'm pretty sure, of craft beers and
it's going to be an awesome conversation.
So sit back, relax, get your favorite drink, tell us what you're drinking in the comments,
and let's get started.
Hey, welcome Elliot to Drinks Podcasts, thank you so much for coming on.
Yeah, I'm super excited, I think it's going to be a good time, so I was just saying this
week, we kind of went live, but I've seen you everywhere, but I actually know very little
about your journey, so I'm excited to learn a little bit about that today, but I also
want to kind of let the conversation go where the drinks kind of take up, where the very
special drink takes us.
So can you tell us a little bit about what we're drinking today?
Yeah, so this is a beer by a company that I'm a huge, huge fan of.
I know that not everybody out there in the world is a big fan of A beer in general or
B stout and porter style beers, but those are my favorite.
And one thing about this beer that I very much love, so I've actually, I got the little
box here with me, I kept it just to keep it up as a prop here, but then I'm just going
to toss it because it's trash at this point.
I mean recycling, but you know, anyway, it's like, are we getting, are you getting feedback?
Oh, sorry, I can see now.
Sorry, it froze for a second.
Oh, oh, OK, we good?
Can you still?
Yeah, we're good.
We're good.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So tell us about this beer.
Yeah.
So so Samuel and Smith, Samuel Smith makes a handful of different stouts and porters.
And one thing that's really, really cool about them.
And you might, I don't know if you can kind of see just that little box right there.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's a picture of their brewery in Yorkshire over in the UK.
And it is they are open air stone square vats that they actually ferment the beer in.
And these these vats are the vats that they have used for like literally
the last like 400 years or something, which is really cool.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And so they use the original water.
They they still use the water from the well that was originally sunk there.
You know, again, like 400 some odd years ago, they they use the same, you know, recipes and stuff.
So I'm a big fan of theirs.
I also they make this other guy, the organic chocolate stout.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Many, many years ago when I was I was finally legal to go purchase alcohol myself,
which I'm actually going to pour this beer here.
But I I started I started going around and just trying a bunch of different types of beer.
So my father had made wine throughout my whole life.
So I tried a couple of different wines, tried a couple of different liquors.
I am in Tennessee, not to say that like I was just like downing moonshine as a child.
But I definitely had I definitely had some more access to stuff like that.
And so when I went out and started buying alcohol, I wanted to try a bunch of different types of beers.
And one of the first beers that I really, really enjoyed was the Samuel Smith organic chocolate stout.
And so then I just, you know, bought everything I could from them that was in that style.
They also have another one that's a porter.
It's a pretty good London porter as well.
So yeah, those those are my types of drink when it comes, you know, in general,
if I'm out at a bar, the thing I say, I go up to the bartender.
They say, hey, what are you looking for?
What's the darkest thing you got on tap?
And and normally it it comes out pretty well.
So so so I have a little bit of a story behind this as well, in that when
Aaron Rock came on, he loves stout and he told me to get Cooper's double stout.
I think it was like it's it's a very and I'm like Cooper's.
I was like, oh, it's like it's a very it's a very generic beer in Australia.
Well, it's not super generic, but it's like I'm a little bit.
I like my craft beer slot.
And so I was like Cooper's like, oh, I'm not super.
You know, I was expecting something really weird, bizarre.
Yeah, yeah, I thought I'd be like, you know, shipping like air
shipping it in from like some like bizarre plate, like, you know, and I was like,
oh, does Australian beer?
OK, whatever. And I drank it.
I was like, this is fucking amazing.
And I've just found this love for stouts.
And then only last night when I was putting these in the fridge,
I realized there were stouts and I was like, oh, man.
So I got the oatmeal stout, Samuel Smith oatmeal stout here.
And I'm just so excited to try it because I'm just and this these
this is like looks like a thick shake. Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah. What's what's interesting, too, is these these were hard to get.
But I but I got them in Australia, which is which is good to say.
But like they cost me like two beers, two of these tallies cost me
about the same price as like a whole case. OK.
I was wondering I was wondering what the price would ultimately come out for you.
And in fairness, I it's highly possible
when you ask me, like, what what should you get?
I like one of the first things I said to you was, oh, man,
I don't know exactly what you would, you know, have close by at your store.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, no, no, it's not like you demand.
I was like, no, I'm ready to spend the money.
No, I know, I know.
But I then was like, OK, well, A, I'm a huge fan of this company.
I do always drink their their stuff.
Also, it's it's international for me to begin with.
So I was hoping that you would have an easier time.
But they they only sell them in four packs.
I think they do tend to run in my area
about the same as like a craft beer six pack, a similar.
So like, you know, a little bit higher than than your standard six pack
to begin with. But I think they were, yeah, I think with delivery,
it was like forty five dollars for two beers.
Oh, my God.
Two bottles for two. Oh, my God.
Dude, I hope it's.
I had I had I had who's that amazing, amazing, amazing episode.
Dr. Carl Smith, author of Colts of the Dead, and he's like,
we're drinking the killer, but he's like, I had to get the worm salt as well.
He's like, we're getting worm salt.
But and that was 45 bucks just for the worm salt.
I had it ordered in from Mexico.
Oh, my God.
Yeah, so I appreciate all the super chats, everyone.
Yes, yes, I think I'm running in the red.
Right here, right here.
OK, let me try this beer.
And as I try this, I want to ask the question, do you live in God?
You know, funny enough, I I don't.
Yeah, I know, I know.
I'm still skeptical on dogs.
But I kind of feel like they're probably real.
But you know, yeah, but God's probably not. Yeah.
So so you so are you and you're an atheist, right?
You're like a hard out of living. OK, so.
Why I'm treating this interview very differently than I normally do.
So please, anything you want to get wherever wherever you want to go,
brother, I'll follow you and you just at any point again,
just help me off and be like, oh, shut up.
That's definitely like a different approach.
I'd act like a Christian almost like, why don't you believe in God?
That's why that's about it.
For me, the the biggest reason is that.
After finding out that.
My my reasons at the time, I didn't have any justification
more so than believing a lot of other things.
And because I didn't believe those things, I said,
well, I'd like to try to be consistent as much as possible.
And then upon investigating the evidence, I haven't found anything.
And more often than not, what I have found, actually,
is specific reasons why not to believe.
And that's that's that's a particular stance that that I take
that not everybody necessarily does that takes the atheist label.
But like me personally, I say every single version of God
that I have ever had described to me that anybody has ever told me about
or presented evidence for I have found to be logically inconsistent.
So impossible in some way, right?
Or just the evidence not being sufficient to warrant that belief.
So is it possible that there is a version of a deity out there
that I have not heard of that could meet that criteria?
Yes, that that absolutely that is possible.
But I just haven't, you know, come across it yet.
So until then, none of them, I don't think any of them are real.
But that's that's similar to myself.
And I was recently on yesterday.
I was on Sydney Davis Junior Junior's channel.
It was great conversation.
But for me, yeah, it was it was very much similar.
Like this, this God belief is like a mega belief.
Like you have all these like prayer works, the Bible's true.
It was a tradition I brought up with.
And then when you kind of like start to analyze each one of those things,
you can test prayer, we can we can find it.
We can look at the scholarship of the Bible.
We can and when you start to look at those things,
those things started to disappear.
And then I realized, like, do I have reason to believe anymore?
And the answer for me was no.
And same. But what kind of Christian were you?
I was Methodist.
So now we weren't particularly
hung up on that label, but but that was what our denomination was.
And there were definitely differences
that I recognized around the time that I ended up leaving.
So basically to to make a long a long story as short as possible.
When I was born,
I was infected with something
that put me in the emergency room, the NICU, for about like a month.
So brand new baby laying in the hospital overnight
to the to the emergency room for the brand new babies that place.
Mm hmm.
It is generally common for Methodist to baptize a newborn baby.
So that did not occur for me.
And then.
It just didn't happen for another few years,
even though we went to church and even though I was a believer.
So that was a problem for me up until I think it was like eight or nine
when I actually decided to get baptized,
which was kind of a big deal in the church because that's a Baptist thing.
That's what the Baptists do.
So the Southern Baptists don't baptize you when you're a baby.
You actually have to choose it.
And a lot of that happens around that age that I ended up getting baptized at.
But that was a big deal for me.
So I did choose that.
And then I ended up going through confirmation,
which is similar to like the Catholics, because the Methodists are
the Methodists are an interesting breed, for sure.
Normally, though, normally, though, they're a little bit more
friendly and cool on stuff like you're going to find more so.
The Methodist Church churches are not opposing LGBT rights and stuff.
Yeah, OK, OK, not not not consistently across the board, of course.
Believe me, they have their, you know, atrocious problems,
just like a lot of the others do.
But in general, they seem to be better when I type in Methodist,
it's just a lot of pride flags and stuff in churches.
What's showing up on?
So for some reason, I thought Methodists were the ones that were very close to,
like, I think I'm going to get confused with seven day Adventists.
That's why I was like so surprised.
So interesting. OK.
So when did you start to, like, how long were you in that faithful?
Like, how old were you until you started questioning things?
So. I ended up playing in the
Handbell and Chimes Choirs for the church for years,
which I do have to say is probably the number one thing that I missed,
like, playing those handbells is amazing.
And it's it's almost.
Go ahead, go ahead.
What is it, a handbell?
Oh, yeah.
So if you look up Handbell Choir on Google,
you'll you'll see exactly what I'm talking about.
It's a table of very large brass bells, generally,
but they get smaller as they get higher in pitch and then larger as they get
lower in pitch, obviously. Oh, wow. Yeah.
And it's it's gorgeous music, oftentimes to play.
Again, it's pretty much exclusively a church thing,
mainly because that's most of the music that's, you know, for it.
And and I bet you if you search hard enough,
there's probably a video or two of me playing as a child,
because we we played a couple of different things like we did this one
because where I am in Tennessee is a lot of different churchy type things.
So there's a handful of different, you know, well known, you know,
churches and organizations based in this area.
And they do a big youth groupie thing every so often.
So so my my Handbell Choir actually got to play for like some few thousand
Christian teens years ago, whatever.
But anyway, so it was it was around that, like,
you know, 17, 18 age is when I really started
pushing back on stuff and questioning things.
But I still didn't I didn't take the label atheists didn't even really take
the label agnostic, definitely still a Christian, definitely still believe stuff.
And then, you know, a year or two would go by and then.
OK, well, now I'm just going through all the rounds on YouTube of all the big debates
and everybody, you know, what everybody's talking about, you know,
because that there's a lot, a lot of material out there.
And then just slowly started finding my way into more recent stuff.
And then that led me to a couple of live streams.
And I found out that there's people that do it like actively,
like on a weekly basis.
And I reached out to that that wonderful dude, Ethan Michael,
from your friendly neighborhood atheist, and he gave me a shot
and let me help out behind the scenes for a bit.
And next thing you know, I'm helping out other places
and I'm hanging out with other people and talking.
And yeah, I'm now I'm now one of the hosts on the atheist experience.
I'm really excited for that.
That's incredible.
The atheist experience was such a such a such an important.
Like serious for me when I, you know, I used to watch it every
I was like a Monday at work and I used to have it on my screen
the bottom right hand corner and listen to it.
And I was always too scared to call up.
But but yeah, it was it's such an important stream.
And I used to watch that.
I used to play Starcraft 2 and sync and drink some scotch
and listen to the that four hour compilation of Matt De La Hunty
that over like space like 10 years and just listen to it over and over again.
My uncle's like, you're being brainwashed.
I'm like, oh, maybe.
But I love it. It's so good.
It's just so it's just so the like when you really get a conversation
like become one of my favorite things was when you have a conversation that
like someone has like put themselves, I guess, into a position of
like they can't move out of what they're like.
They're and the logical the next logical step is they have to like
like admit where they're wrong or like or something.
And they just refuse to it's my favorite thing.
Like you see that there's like clip.
I think I'm not sure is it is it is it forest or someone
is going around at the moment is really viral.
It's like it's like, you know, if I set my girlfriend on fire,
am I a good loving, loving, you know, partner?
And then they say, if you set your girlfriend on fire,
you never love it to begin with.
And then he's like, if God sets God sends you to hell,
he never loved you to begin with.
And the person's like, wrong.
It's probably a forest.
Yeah. Yeah.
Forest. Oh, geez.
And it's just yeah, it's just such a such a cool crew, cool group of people.
And, you know, the spin-off shows and stuff are really cool as well.
Yeah.
So what were what were the things that kept you in like that
were like the hardest for you to kind of like get rid of in your in your
faith, like or like or to kind of process?
Like as we talked about, I talked about just a second ago,
but like it's like a mega belief you have these like little areas.
Like what were the things that you what were the what were the reasons
that you believe that you had to investigate to discover that you no longer believed?
Yeah. So one of the biggest things that I started looking into
that really got me in this headspace on a regular basis of, you know,
thinking that maybe what I thought about the Bible and God wasn't correct
was different moral arguments.
So reading reading through a handful of different, you know,
constructed moralities for me was really important and reading about why
various people disagreed with others in the past and why those beliefs
are still going on today and kind of what their updates had been.
But what actually kept me in the belief system for so long was stuff
that is really, really vague.
And this is why this is some of the stuff that I really do end up pushing back
on a lot harder is because what I actually believed was a couple of things.
So one, that everything was just answered by God, period.
There wasn't a continuing explanation because it wasn't necessary.
It was explained with that statement, with that concept alone.
Everything was explained.
Why do kids get cancer?
Because God, period, end of sentence.
You can argue that you feel bad about that, but that doesn't matter
because the true overarching understanding of what God is answers this question.
Now, again, you would you would say like right now, like, yeah, but SR,
like, what is the answer to that question?
And there isn't one, like I understand that now.
But at the time, what I had was just the vague thought stopping techniques
that I hear a lot of apologists like to use.
And a lot of people who are sincere in their belief, they accept these as good
reasons because they do feel like they're good.
So just this idea that there was ever any issue whatsoever
that needed to be justified, that whole idea was just not in my head
because I had already had it answered with just the basic concept of God.
Now, it would take me a long time to understand that the reason
my God was seemingly so much more chill and loving was just because
those were already the things that I accepted as a person.
Right. But that's why whenever there was
like the idea of arguing about your belief or justifying your belief
did not make sense.
I had never heard apologetics until stepping into the atheist space.
And the reason I had never heard it was because it wasn't necessary.
If somebody tried to tell me that we had found evidence for Noah's
Ark and the flood, I dismissed it because it was unnecessary
to explain what God had already explained.
And then the second big big, go ahead.
Go ahead. It's like, is it like
you don't it's like it's like there's no need to find evidence
for Noah's flood because God said there was a flood.
So there was a flood like there's no and whether or not that flood
whether or not that flood was a global flood or a local flood
or an allegory, none of that matters
because it was all answered in the fact that God did exist.
And if God existed, then any any problems that I felt that I had
as not God didn't matter because I existed.
I was here. God existed.
God's here. God created everything.
All of this is God's playground. Done.
You don't have to go ahead.
What would you say to someone?
Because you said, you know, like, why is there cancer in children?
God, what would you say to, you know, my Christian stuff would say,
no, that's not that's not accurate.
I would say that it was the devil.
The devil did that.
And the devil and God needs the devil because God could have stopped the devil.
Yeah, I could always stop the devil.
Hey, right.
If if I mean, God can always stop the devil.
Are you saying that the so we're pretending to be Christians, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm pretending to be, I'm pretending to be.
I'm I'm playing devil's advocate.
Yeah, right. And I'm I'm going back into that old mindset,
because I obviously know, you know, but what what I would have said to you
as a believing Christian, if you had said to me, well, the reason
there's bad stuff in the world is because of the devil.
My response would have been, but you're not saying
that the devil is more powerful than God, of course. Right.
And if you're if you're agreeing with me, then what you're saying is
that anything that the devil does absolutely
is something that, again, is well within God's understanding.
How could you? How could you try to justify something as being problematic
when you don't know the mind of God?
It's impossible for you to understand that, right?
Hmm. So you would have the go ahead, go ahead.
Well, that's where you get the like the what we can ask him when we made him.
And exactly for all the reasons that are completely sufficient for God.
Yeah, exactly.
That was what I had.
That was what I had accepted on such a deep level
that, again, no justification was ever needed.
And I did have conversations with other Christians and other believers
who felt that way.
And that was the way I spoke with them,
which, again, is why when people do that today for me, right?
Like when people say the real vague stuff about like, oh, God is love.
Oh, God is energy.
God is the universe.
What I try to express is how that concept is meaningless
because on the actual truth of that, you definitely don't mean that.
When you say God is love, you're not literally saying
that what you think created everything around you and justifies
all of these things that you want justified in this problem
is actually the simple concept of love.
That is not what you're saying.
And once you get people to recognize that,
that they do actually have a distinction between these two concepts
and that while love may be a super important aspect of your concept of God,
there is actually still a bull's eye that is your concept of God.
And once you get to a place of recognize, at least for me,
and this is what I hope for others and, you know, try to try to help with is
once I got to the place of recognizing that in reality,
I didn't know what God was.
I had no definition.
I had no understanding whatsoever.
And that was why it was so easy for me to answer all those questions with.
Well, God, I mean, it's literally God of the gaps.
Because any problem that you brought up was justified by the simple fact
that God does exist, period, end of sentence.
And if God exists, it takes care of all these problems.
I can still see like.
Oh, there's a lot of issues.
No, no, no, yeah.
And the thing is, this is what I this is what I often say to people because
you know, I've had long conversations with people who have.
Like reached out to me on on Instagram or Twitter and said, like,
you're wrong about this or something.
And then I say, let's jump on a phone call.
And I've had conversations with with absolute randoms.
And if I'm in the right mood, I'll actually have to take these calls.
But like, and and they'll they'll have answers for a lot of.
Everything was it was no flood.
Real, yes, it was real, like, like every everything you can, you know,
but the problem is you can justify anything.
You can find a way to make anything work.
You know, Muhammad's putting the moon into it happened.
And this is and this is what it really means.
And you can you can work it out.
And it's the it's the the allegory.
I like to say all the analogy or allegory.
I don't know which which word I'm mispronouncing misusing.
But say I was to get into a play, I'll say, I'm going to come to Tennessee
and I'm going to I'm going to be there tomorrow.
I'm going to walk there and then I get on a plane and I fly there
and I see the next day and you go and I said, I walked all the way to Tennessee
and you're like, well, that's that's not true.
Right. Let's say there's a deep, deep drinks, religion,
five hundred years from now when they're talking about the prophet
David McDonald and they're like, you know, he did actually walk there
because because David was smart and he knew that, you know,
he can get deep vein thrombosis and blood clots if you don't walk up
and down the aisle of the plane.
So you've got to walk up and down the entire right.
It's teaching a science.
It's actually teaching a science before we, you know, and, you know,
you can come up with any you can make anything work if you try hard enough.
But is it the most likely scenario?
So no, right, probably not.
Right. And those that
that with the
with the general feeling as if
every little tiny thing that occurred in my life was a message,
was specifically about the whole entity of existence telling me something.
A bird lands on the tree, you know, tweets at me as I walk by.
That was a sign. What was the sign? Who knows?
It could be anything. Why was it there?
Who knows? Didn't matter necessarily, but it was deeply important.
And every single thing was like that.
Those two very, very simple vague thought stopping techniques
prevented me from ever even just questioning.
And once I got to the place of recognizing
that those prevented me from questioning and I didn't have a concept there
in the center, that was when it was like, oh, I don't believe this anymore.
And then I started looking into other things and justifying, you know,
but it's weird. It's not amazing that, you know, you can walk down the street
and your bird tweets at you and you're like, that's God telling me something.
Oh, my gosh, yes.
I had a conversation with someone who said, God speaks to me
because I always see this number everywhere.
And this is in the number. Oh, my gosh, I can absolutely tell you about that.
That was that was for years of my life, man.
Every single time I would look at something that had numbers on it.
So like you drive by a mailbox, right?
And it's say like 1245, OK?
But but one, two, four, five wasn't important, right?
But if you add four and five together, see, that gives you nine.
And if you take two and you multiply that by one, it gives you two.
And so you take nine times two, gives you 18, which one plus eight equals nine.
Dude, you see that, right?
I mean, you see, you know how I mean, it's clear.
It's so why did you multiply some things and subtract other things?
No, none of that mattered.
Again, it just by the end of the answer, it was just like, oh, yeah,
I feel good about this now. I feel good about it.
There's what's that?
There's I forgot what the term is.
It's my brain isn't working today, but it's never working at the moment.
I don't know what's going on with my brain.
But but it's more alcohol or help.
Yeah, well, maybe it's too many deep drinks.
But essentially, I remember being a kid
and my younger brother, myself and my mom were going to go fishing.
And that morning we saw a I was we're struggling to catch fish.
We're at Tarthor at War in the Central Coast.
Sapphire Coast and New South Wales, Australia.
And we're going to go fishing.
And I remember seeing a cartoon and there's a fish on the cartoon.
And I said, mom, I said, there's a card.
This must mean we're going to get a fish today.
I was like, that's evidence that we're going to get a fish.
And I don't think we did get a fish or we got a little fish like.
Yeah, and but it didn't matter because even if you didn't get a fish, David,
what that was was actually God sending you that message so that you could have
the disappointment to recognize that what you needed to do was actually
rely on God and not on your own understanding.
See, you thought you could go fish by yourself.
But in reality, only God can truly fish.
Yeah, or you know,
God was trying to teach me at that young age that I need to be a fisher of men.
A fisher of men.
Yes, you're casting your net in the wrong place, David.
And that's what you're going to use this day.
See, see, that's that's that's got it.
You're getting it.
You're following.
So good. That's so good.
And it can never lose, right?
No, exactly.
It doesn't. It doesn't matter what the.
And that's that's always the thing is that the the actual explanation is
oftentimes really not that important, right?
And and more often than not.
And if we do this, too, as nonbelievers, like, don't think we're immune from this,
this is just a common thing that humans do a lot of times.
If somebody comes up to you and you go, well, why do you think that?
You know, you want to try to justify that one hamburger is better than another,
you know, and somebody says, well, yeah, why?
And you go, oh, man, because of the bun.
I mean, like the bun alone, OK?
And then you get that beautiful, beautiful Anthony Magnobosco question.
If I could prove to your satisfaction that the reason that you say
is what's underpinning this belief, if I could prove to you to your
satisfaction that that isn't true, would that change your feeling?
And while we'll say yes, while most of us will say yes, the question is
whether or not we mean that and that's always really fascinating to try
and break apart because for a lot of things, we really don't have a good reason.
We just like this one place better and we can come up with all these other things
afterwards. But again, if I were to show to you, for instance,
I have a favorite bar, OK, I have a favorite bar in my area.
Love the food, love the place, love the people.
Guess what?
The food has actually kind of changed over the time that I've been going.
Not completely, obviously, it's still very much in the same style,
but the menu is obviously not 100 percent the same.
And the same thing is true for the staff.
You know, they have changed like not completely.
There's still a couple of people there that are still the main core,
but at the end of the day, they have changed.
Now, the restaurant hasn't like picked up and moved, obviously, but I did.
I moved to a further distance.
And before what I said was the location was so close to me, it was perfect.
And so, well, most of the rings, they all changed.
So like, are they really the reason that that's where I like to go so much?
Maybe not, you know, but we just don't feel it's necessary
to justify such things on on such a deep level,
which is honestly understandable, like it would be absurd to live your life
with trying to say, like, I have to have 100 percent solid reasons
for every little decision that I make.
Oh, it's OK to just go to a place because you like it, you know, screw it.
It doesn't matter.
But when it comes to these other things, right, when it comes to these deep
conversations, yes, we really should put that level of effort into it
because it does have a lot greater ramifications.
Whether or not I go to this fucking bar tomorrow and going to change
much about the economics in Tennessee and going to change much about
like my bank account isn't going to change much about the status
of my currently dying liver, like it's all going to be about the same.
Yeah, exactly.
I've just pinned a message to the channel.
So to the chat, guys, if you want to see more of secular rarity,
his link tree is posted and you just you can support him on Patreon,
join his Facebook, TikTok, Twitch, Instagram, Twitter, YouTube.
It's all there.
And if you want to reach out and and argue with him
about beer choices, yeah, you might look it back to you,
but try it on one of these one of these things.
Also, I have to say, I'm a little I'm a little disappointed in chat.
Like, I love all you guys.
I really do. But no one has pointed out that at the bottom,
it says, Sexually Education Streams Tomorrow.
So I thought you did that on purpose in fairness because I was like,
I was like, you know what, I watched that last one.
And it was pretty sexy.
Like, it was so we're doing a little bit of the reason
like supposed to be sex education, right?
Not sexy education.
So let me just quickly just share the screen.
So we have so it's the second part.
So tomorrow we're doing the first one was purely called to horror horror stories.
But the reason why no one's pointed out is I wrote, you know, these are the guests.
Amy McDonald, Posse C, family, Dr. Ben, Jeremy Schumer, Nicole Mitchell and myself
and then in brackets, alpha male.
No one.
That was a joke.
But no one has like commented about there's no way I would ever discover myself.
So I again, I again, thought that was I thought you put that on there
and was just like, yeah, that seems right.
Like that seems I just like good with that.
Yeah, yeah, I didn't I didn't tell the world I would alpha male.
So tomorrow we we have the sexy education panel.
So we did the purely cultural horror stories.
So tomorrow my wife is actually joining Amy McDonald, which will be fun with with Atlas.
She may have to dip in and out a little bit.
It's going to be just sexy education.
So first we talked about, you know, purely cultural horror stories.
And, you know, I said to and Jeremy is like, oh, we're going to nail this.
He's like, we got Jeremy, the guy on the left here.
He's a family, family and relationship therapist.
And Nicole Mitchell is a pastor turned porn star.
So regarding sex education, where we've got just with those two,
we've got a down pat.
And then the rest of us are going to kind of like share our stories
and give advice, but it's going to be fun.
So make sure you check that out.
Yeah, the first one was good.
I enjoyed the crap out of that.
Thank you.
Yeah, so, but like, but of course,
Secretary, go check out his stuff.
It's you're just everywhere.
Where's your next show?
I can straight off this, isn't it?
Yeah, so I'm going to be.
So right after this, I'm going to go hang out with the wonderful
Dr. Ben over on his Twitch for he's doing awards tonight, actually.
And then on Saturday,
he is asking me to come back on so that he can talk about various
at home animals that people are doing that are just terrible.
And just for behind the scenes for everybody so that you kind of know
how, you know, what Ben and my relationship is like, he messaged me one day.
No context leading up to this and was just like, hey, man,
I'd really like to do an episode on enemas.
And I can't think of anybody better to talk about than you.
So I don't.
I still don't 100 percent know how to take that.
But we are still very good friends.
So I guess I'm OK with it.
So but yeah, we're going to talk about, I guess, things you shouldn't be putting up
your butt. So because there are some things that it's perfectly fine for you
to put up your butt as long as you take proper precaution.
And then there are other things you should never put up your butt like coffee,
I think, actually, is one we'll be talking about.
Yeah. And maybe you know what?
Maybe Ben can give us a little taste of that tomorrow because we, you know,
we're talking about sex education, just sticking things up your butt.
Like maybe we can give for a bit of a preview to your conversation.
That's amazing. So for next time, for next time, David,
this is just a purely personal suggestion.
Use a different phrase than a little taste when talking about enemas.
I have the worst.
You know, like people, like I have the worst, like I half say things.
I know I'm like, I'm trying to get better.
But like I half say things.
I say the wrong words.
I like I still remember being like two or three years old and saying something
that was so offensive that my whole like it was my dad and I was with like all
my aunties and stuff, like, and they all looked at me in horror.
And I got taken to the car and sat down.
I didn't know what I said, but I was finally was so offensive because
and I didn't mean to be offensive.
It's just my brain doesn't work sometimes.
It's horrible taste of animal.
What is that?
Also, thank you, Amber, for the super, a two dollar super chat.
You must construct additional pylons.
Yes, Starcraft, who I was a proton protoss or proton.
See, it's happening again.
Proton, but yes, Starcraft, they were my team.
So, um, taste, I can't believe that.
Little taste of enemas.
So what is what do you think is the best evidence for God?
If I was to, like, if I was to, like, ask you to let's actually
let's splice it up a little bit.
Let's say a magic genie pops out of a beer or something and says to you,
there is evidence that there is a God and you'll go to heaven.
If you can determine the best evidence for God, let's say you want to go to heaven.
Yeah, we're moving.
We're moving back.
We're not focusing on the magic genie popping out of the beer thing.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, just going for what is the best evidence.
Um, gosh, that's a good question.
Oh, sorry.
Um, I have gotten asked this before and I'm sure my answer has changed and
probably will change.
I think, and maybe this is just from my background.
I think because I'm such in a place now where the idea of having sufficient
evidence to meet the burden of proof for the supernatural as a whole, because I
think that is so lacking.
Um, the strongest arguments I think are the ones that are thought stopping
specifically because they don't get you to the place of trying to inquire.
Um, so if, like, let's just say, like, like I just keeled over right now from
something and like my soul went up to heaven and I was standing there with St.
Peter and St.
Peter was like, Hey man, look, we know that you're not an atheist or we know
you don't believe, you know, in God, we know you're not a theist.
Okay.
Um, but we're going to give you an option.
If you can, you get one chance, pick your best argument for why you believe.
What would you say?
Obviously, avoiding the fact that I'm currently experiencing all of this and
have tangible evidence of the, you know, St.
Peter, the pearly gates and shit, I would, I would go back to where I was in my
belief, which is God just exists and answers all of the problems and I just
wouldn't have any justification for that.
And I don't think at this point, just having heard so many of them, I, I'm
just in a place of saying, I really don't think there's anything that is good
enough to distinguish between any one of them.
Um, the idea of like the teleological argument is just on its face wrong, in
my opinion, because you're, you're assuming something that you don't have any
good reason to assume more so than any other conclusions.
And the burden that you would ultimately put on yourself by adopting that as true
would, would outweigh itself very quickly in your real life than to just assume
that it is not true.
Because again, it's kind of like the, the, you know, we don't have, we don't have a
fountain.
Go ahead.
Yeah, sorry.
No, please interrupt me at any time.
What is the teleological argument?
So the teleological argument is basically like everything is designed for a purpose.
Like God already has laid everything out.
And so like things are just kind of like, you know, uh, doing what they are
originally created to do from a essentially infinite past and future.
Right.
Like it's all in God's domain.
God made the whole freaking timeline.
He put every little piece on it.
The fact that scissors work like scissors is because God says this is how
scissors are going to work.
Um, and so it's like things are just kind of behaving in a certain manner and
playing out to an already fixed, agreed upon conclusion at the end.
The end, the end of the book is already written.
It's just that we're in the process of reading it.
Um, but that assumption just doesn't have anything in my opinion that outweighs
it to believe it over other similar type assumptions like at the end of the day,
that it's just the first go around, like that, that, that there isn't a
conclusion in the future, you know, those are technically both assumptions.
We can't really justify either of them, but if you accept the other one, what
my argument is that that puts such a burden on you and all of these other
scenarios that we agree upon that that outweighs it.
And that's why I pick the one that I pick, but it's just similar to other
things too.
Like the, the foundation of logic, a lot of presuppositionalists will say, you
don't have a reason to just, you don't have a reason that justifies why
logic works, right?
You don't have a reason to accept logic and correct.
Sure.
It's just that if I take on your stance, which is saying my justification is
this particular thing, God, that then ultimately later on down the line in
using that logic puts all this burden on me that I don't think it's worth
putting on when you can answer all those things.
So basically I have one problem, which is that justification, but then
everything else seems to work pretty well.
You have an answer to that one problem in your supposedly, but you have all
of these other problems that appear later on that you have to now go through
extra effort to justify.
And I don't.
Yeah.
And that's where I, that's where I went.
Quote on my favorite, um, my favorite way to address the, the, the problem
when someone says, where did we come from?
As if like God answers that question is I say, I think we came from the same
place that you believe God came from, which then, which then like a hundred
percent, they go, well, no, God didn't come from anywhere.
God just was.
And I said, so why can't we just say the same thing about everything?
Exactly.
Because like, and that's not, that's not a satisfying answer, but that's, that's
it's, it's pointing out the hypocrisy in their methodologies.
Right.
And neither answer is satisfying because the theist, if they're being
honest, more often than not.
And I, I have all the, I have a lot of these conversations.
So like a buddy of mine in Nashville puts on like in-person discussions.
Um, and so we, we've done a good few of those, you know, with just regular
average Joe blow people walking around the city and drinking coffee and stuff.
It's, I, I really enjoy engaging in this stuff.
Um, even, even just as like a hobby and stuff.
But when you're having a discussion with somebody who is being very honest
and vulnerable in there, in their faith, more often than not, they will probably
tell you that that answer does not satisfy them because it's not a satisfying
answer because most likely there just isn't one.
And there's a few other big, big questions in life that humanity has been
grappling with for a very long time that while you can argue we have made
some progress on, ultimately at the end of the day, what we have are
unsatisfactory answers.
And that's just the case.
And it may just be for all eternity, forever and ever and never and not
going to freak and change no matter what, that there are just always going
to be these like four questions that we just never have a great answer to.
We have some kind of answer, but it's still really not that good.
The problem is if we want to now add a fifth.
If you want to come to me and say there's actually this other thing.
That is not explained, that falls into the same category as these other four,
but actually justifies those four.
Well, from there, what I'm going to say is that seems to be an unnecessary step.
You seem to be going an extra step.
And I would probably then even go so far as to say I also feel like later
on down the line, that would present all these problems, you know.
And so that's that's just where I'm at with like everything in the whole
supernatural stuff now, like like ghosts, like aliens visiting.
I mean, aliens visiting us, I guess, isn't supernatural.
But you know what I'm saying?
Like supernatural, like super intensely specific claims about stuff
that we really just don't have good evidence for.
But apparently humans have been talking about for a long time.
Probably no living organism ever actively breathed fire on its own
without any outside ignition source, right?
Like we're all comfortable with saying that.
Yeah.
Like dragon, the fires, like the wildfires that would have.
Right, right.
We would have just the earth would have been fucking destroyed so long ago.
Also, what do you have?
You just have a pilot light in the middle of a fucking iguana.
Like it doesn't make any sense.
Like, like, you know, you could argue like, OK, well, it's a really large,
it's a really large animal and their type of digestive tract would have caused
a particular type of gas that has more of a combustible, you know, too.
Like, yeah, you could argue some of that.
It's still fucking stupid.
But like, where do you get the fire?
Where do you actually get the spark?
What does it do?
It just has flint on its teeth.
Like it does.
What happened is cows used to be very hairy and they used to get
like bits of flint caught in the tail and then they would move it around
when they're flooding.
It was it was spark and like their methane.
And there's ways to just justify anything.
There was just flint everywhere in those days.
Just rain.
And a cow's butt hole kind of looks like an iguana's mouth from a distance.
Like you could come up with anything, man.
Like, yeah, so.
Yes. Yeah.
What about like the the column or like the cosmological arguments?
Like everything that begins to exist has a cause.
The universe began to exist.
Therefore, the universe had a cause.
What are you?
I mean, I can it kind of depends on how I'm feeling
and and that the particular individual that's that I'm talking with on that.
But like, for instance, I could say right now, like no problem.
Cool. Where do we go?
And then we just have to go somewhere because like I don't have any problem
with with saying that there is a necessary thing.
Right. I don't even have a problem with saying that all of existence
came from a particular starting point, a particular instantiation of some kind.
Like those don't necessarily get us to the place that a lot of believers think.
You have to add on these other things.
And my problem with the construction
that we see most recently from William Lane Craig, which real quick,
I don't I don't know.
So this is something that always kind of bugs me. OK.
And it's not super important.
But William Lane Craig did actually create the quote
Kalam cosmological argument.
He did not create the cosmological argument.
That is a style of argument that does go back to Al Ghazali.
But William Lane Craig actually was the first person to codify it in this particular way
and titled it Kalam, which is an Arabic word meaning argument.
So sometimes I hear atheists that say like William Lane Craig did invent the Kalam.
I'm like, well, no, yeah, he did invent the Kalam.
He didn't admit that cosmological argument doesn't go with something that annoys me about this.
And it's just so easy to just like just waltz wrap past it.
That is the first premise.
Everything that begins to exist has a cause. Yes.
If you if you rephrase that to that sounds very similar to everything that
exists has a cause. Yeah. No, no, no, no, no, no, because they they
sneak in God in there by saying everything that begins to exist has a cause.
So God didn't begin to exist if we just accept there was no beginning.
Yeah, you're just leading in.
You just you're just there's a whole problem in that premise there.
Because like if you if you're going to take this to God,
there's a whole problem in that premise there.
Because how do you justify that God didn't have a beginning?
Like, right, you don't you don't the necessary starting point.
You don't you don't have any reason to accept that over the same reason
that you have to accept that existence as a whole has just always existed
in some form or fashion.
Like you don't you don't have anything that distinguishes one argument
over the other. Again, what you do have, though, is later on the problems
that arise if you accept the God hypothesis there, because truly,
we don't have a good reason at the end of the day to accept that the universe
really like like all of existence actually has always somehow existed or like
never has like we don't have that.
We just don't and we have to accept that.
But the fun thing is everybody else has to play that game, too.
And if you want to put an answer in that slot, that's fine.
But if it causes extra problems later on that I don't have to deal with again,
quote unquote, like I win this game, that's how it's played.
That's how we play.
And there's a good we have good justification to play the game this way.
It's like in the middle of chess, you don't just get to say,
well, in checkers, you can do this.
It's like, yes, yes, you can in checkers.
That's not this fucking game.
We talked about this an hour ago, you know?
Yeah. Have you ever have you ever finished a game of risk with like four people?
Have you ever played a risk with like four or five other people
and actually gotten to the end of it?
I don't know if I have.
But I don't really remember playing it too much.
I mean, a few times twice in my life.
Have I actually gotten to the end of a game of risk?
And I don't speak with those people anymore.
And I'm not saying it's necessarily because of that.
I'm just saying somewhere in the middle of playing that game,
you like everybody feels like, fuck, why did we do this?
This kind of sucks.
And it's like, yeah, but these are the rules.
And this is just how long it takes.
And yeah, it kind of sucks after a minute.
And we just have to move on from that.
Why? Why can't we play Monopoly instead now?
Because three hours ago, we agreed we were going to play risk.
So we're going to finish the damn game, Bill.
I don't care if you have to go pick up your daughter.
Again, I'm not saying it necessarily is the reason I don't talk to them.
I'm one of those people who I don't actually mind Monopoly.
Like everyone says like it's banned in my house.
Yeah, but like people say it's it's ridiculous.
But people say it's all chance.
I don't I disagree.
I can win Monopoly every single time.
Well, OK, settle this for me.
And my wife might be watching and she might comment.
We had, you know what, I just went back exactly on what I just said.
We're about to start an argument about Monopoly when I said I can play Monopoly.
I know, I was just like, I don't I don't get involved in like
personal disputes normally.
So.
My little brother and I have been playing Monopoly our whole lives
and we just dominate and we were playing a game with
I think it was I think it was my mom and and Amy, my my partner.
She was a girlfriend at the time.
And we got to the point where, you know, Amy had like one property
and it was like one property or one or two properties that were like had no hotels on it.
And we were just the rest of the board was just covered.
And me and Leo, we played it sometimes.
We got bored. We're like, this is boring.
Like like this is now this is just a game of chance.
Who lands on the hotel and gets like slapped like this isn't fun anymore.
But there was no way Amy is going to win.
Absolutely no way.
She had no money.
She had no like hotels.
So we decided to give up.
But Amy says, because you guys gave up, I won.
And I was like, no, I was like, like, but technically, yes.
But like, there was no way that she was going to win.
So let me let me I'm not taking any sides.
I'm not taking any sides.
I'm just asking clarifying questions.
OK, trying to be trying to be a good skeptic here.
Right. Yeah.
Did did all three of you
equally get an option to continue playing the game
or step away from the game?
Look, I just realized I'm being intellectually
Amy will continue. I mean, and I just said, no, there's no point.
But we didn't continue, right?
Oh, she didn't continue.
Shit, I definition.
She is the last person in the game and you voluntarily quit.
If you had continued playing the game,
I think it is one hundred percent reasonable.
She would not have won.
But I do think in this specific instance,
I just going to have to say a third party trying to be impartial here.
If the three of you sat there and looked at each other in the eyes
and were like, hey, I want to keep going.
Right. And all three of you stayed.
Different story.
One person stands up and says, hey, I'm just going to quit.
You guys can keep going.
OK, it's between those two that stayed, divide the property.
Yeah, two people in that scenario voluntarily quit, man.
I'm sorry, but what about if like we were like,
yeah, let's all continue to play.
And then the wind blew blew the whole board over and everything.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Active Active Nature is a completely different.
You would call that it would be no.
That would be a draw.
There would be no winner in that scenario.
Yeah, yeah, that's that's unfair, right?
If though, and this is this is a this is a big thing, too.
That is, of course, if none of you were able
to recreate the board exactly in a way that you could demonstrate.
Let's say you had casually taken a picture of it
and it was perfect before the wind came through.
And then she was like, hey, I could actually recreate this.
I could actually put the board back together exactly.
This proves because you can see a clock and a paper
with today's date on it in the background.
So like I was holding up a newspaper.
So if all of that, I mean, but that that's that's getting
that's really getting in the weeds.
I don't know if anybody's having a good time.
Listen to this.
Yeah, I still look, I know it's dishonest,
but I still say that I'm underfeated or monopoly,
but I'm just being dishonest.
I feel like being dishonest.
Yeah, in her moment.
This is what we as people, it's it's the it's the gift in the curse,
you know, of being a human.
We can we can hold, you know,
mutually exclusive beliefs that disagree with me.
OK, so I got two more things.
I really want to really touch on before we we wrap up.
And I do want to wrap up at the right time
because you're going to jump on to Dr. Ben's stream.
And so one of them is one of the things I want to talk about is
we talked about the reasons to believe in God.
So what is the one best reason you would say not to believe in God?
Like I'm not talking about an argument like the ones
that we've been using, which is like, I'm not convinced
because I don't have any reasons to believe.
I'm talking about ones that's like this looks like it.
This looks like there is no God.
Like this looks like a point in the positive direction of there is no God.
Right. So again, I take a bit harder of a stance than
you know, some people when it comes to the label atheism.
But what my stance is, is that
anytime I am presented with with an explanation as to what God is,
the attributes of God, I find that there is something more often than not.
Like the best case scenario is that there just isn't evidence to support it.
Right. But stepping aside from that, all the other ones have logical problems.
So if you're God, I mean, we probably most people here will know
like the problem with the omnitrilema, if your God is, you know,
powerful, all loving, all knowing, well, then evil.
Well, OK, but that doesn't work if you if you just accept your God's
probably a dick, you know, you could also just accept that your God's incapable.
That's a more fun argument, in my opinion,
because it basically says God wants to do all these good things,
but just can't actually do them, which is it's funny.
It's kind of like a little baby that doesn't know.
Wave at his arms around and like kicking shit.
And that's why none of his stuff makes sense.
But otherwise, the the arguments for God's existence
have that type of issue in them, in the logical sense, right?
So gosh, let me think of another fun one.
Oh, I mean, somebody called in the other day and was saying that
the use of the phrase, oh, my God, that a lot of people shout
in particular moments of like trauma, like that justifies God.
That's obviously a non sequitur, right?
We don't have to go through any of the logical problems like that.
Well, oh, I.
Just quickly, I was talking to I was talking to some ex-Muslims
yesterday and we're talking about that exact exact exact thing.
And yeah, and someone made the argument that, you know, there was
there was a car that backfired there or everyone was on a bus.
And I think the bus backfired and I think this is a joke.
But the person said, oh, my God.
And and then the Christian turns to the person
who said that was a Muslim and said, see, you don't say, oh, my Allah.
You say, oh, my God.
And then he goes, well, and he goes, well, it would be very bad
if it was a loud bang.
And then someone said, Allah Akbar, like so scrimmy.
Very, very true.
Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
You've got to be careful about certain things, you know.
But it's but it's true that like, like the oh, my God thing.
Like I I I asked like when I was a Christian,
I was I was wondering I wondered why people were so offended when someone
said Jesus Christ or oh, my God, because it's like at least the same.
Imagine they were cursing Buddha or or at least God's in their forefathers.
How I always picture it especially in especially in.
Like places that have especially countries that have more of a connection
to like the UK historically will have a similar kind of attitude because we you
can actually see that similar
uncomfortable feeling in in some Southern American communities that are Christian,
as well as various African or like Southeast Asian because of the Christian
missionaries that went over at various times in in history.
And there was a period of time where pretty much all of the denominations
were kind of telling people that it's not super cool to just say the name of Yan Wei,
like at all, like the first the commandment being don't take my name in vain.
Was was actually in practice in a lot of places.
Don't say my name fucking at all, bro.
Like don't say it.
And so people saying Jesus, you know, in, for instance,
a moment of fear and like sincerely calling out to him just like Jesus, protect me.
Even that was still like, hey, man, you shouldn't be doing that.
And then it just got shortened into just the word for God.
Interesting, because it just it was just easier.
It just made more sense, right?
And the same thing is with like God bless you in in in like various countries too.
In the United States, most people now just say bless you.
But the original was, of course, God bless you.
And it was specifically about really trying to do something with like, you know,
curing somebody right with with a magic spell.
But now most people just take it as bless you in like in 200 years from now.
It could be spelled completely different.
It could just be a single word, you know, it could be something entirely
different just just based on the change.
But yeah, when it comes to like that
expression, especially in a lot of the Western countries, it does come from the
practice of like really not saying Yahweh's name.
Are you familiar with them?
Oh, gosh, it's a life of Brian in life of Brian.
Like right near the beginning, there's a guy that's getting stoned.
And he's getting stoned by all these women in the city that have these fake
beards because women weren't allowed to stone the men.
Of course, this is all a joke.
If you don't know life of Brian, Monty Python.
But anyway, so he's getting stoned
and the the the Pharisee is like reading out his charges and the charges of blasphemy.
And the guy says, he says like, like, I didn't say anything blasphemous.
All I said was that this meat wasn't fit for Jehovah.
And then everybody goes,
he goes, well, it wasn't it wasn't fit for Jehovah.
Because again, like that was that was the kind of feeling.
So yeah, we changed it and we say our own things now.
And we have other better cuss words, too.
But it just there is something about calling out to
a deity like that, I think, because for so many people, especially people that are
away from that belief system now, it was so taboo for so long that there is kind
of something about, you know, poking the bear in that sense, because we know long.
It's like it's like me every so often, like I every so often joke about getting
struck by lightning, you know, like, if God be willing, strike me down with lightning right now.
All right, so far so good.
But I don't think that's going to happen.
You know, I just it's funny because for a period of time in my life,
like I did and I was around people who who did.
And if there are people I know right now that if I said something like that,
they would leave.
Yeah, 100 percent.
So I say this, I say Jesus and text.
Yeah, because it just Jesus.
But and also another thing that we do with
something is if I have a bunch of friends over and stuff and we're joking,
they know I used to be like sort of religious.
So right before like we eat food, if we're like cooked or something,
I'll grab grab the hands and I'll hold up the table and I'll go,
we're all going to pray and they go, OK, I go, dear Neil deGrasse Tyson,
giving us the scientific method.
Amen.
Because it's like so funny.
I'm wrong to read it.
But but my favorite, just just to kind of put a pin in this,
like there's obviously like the problem of evil,
which is a big one for that against the argument for God.
But I think one of my favorite, one of my newest arguments.
I don't know if this is an argument for like divine hiddenness,
but it's like one of my favorite new.
Like things that I think make a religion look like belief in God,
make look really weak is
the fact like apologetics, the fact that there is apologetics,
the fact that the fact that God needs protecting to me demolishes the idea of a God.
Like apologetics, you know, especially like
the you know, the Muslim community, I think is the worst for this.
Like if you draw a photo of their their God, that's it.
Or their prophet, that's it.
Oh, yeah, it's a death sentence.
They even make just real quick, they even make very devout Muslims will even make
kids cartoons where they will blur out the prophet whenever they are telling
stories from the sonar. It's very funny.
Yeah, it's it's it's it's to me that is like that is bizarre.
Like to me, that's like, OK, your God's not at least this part of is not real.
Like a hundred percent.
What kind of a God is that sensitive?
I don't it's like something that I love to say is like, I'm not you're teasing God.
I'm telling you, stop teasing God.
If there is a creator of the universe, he most likely isn't the genocidal maniac.
You've made him out to be he most like he isn't a sensitive or angry or,
you know, stop teasing God.
Like I'm talking to Christians, Muslims, stop teasing God.
You're making God out to be a bit of a loser.
Like and it's and it's it's not cool.
Stop. Stop. OK.
Like, yeah, I'm telling you to stop doing it because if there is a God,
it's not like that. That that type of argument, especially there,
is actually something that you could could stand very solidly on, you know,
for at least all the big Abrahamic faiths, right?
Because in lots of Jewish texts, as well as Christian and Muslim texts,
there is this concept that runs through about the just outright inability
for human beings to truly ascribe attributes to God.
Now, of course, they will, right?
They will do that.
That's why Dr.
Stavrakapulu's new book, right, The God in Anatomy, right?
That's why she has all these, you know, amazing, ridiculous descriptions
that people have come up with.
But you can see this concept, you know, throughout for a really long time.
And you actually would have, you know, good legs to stand on.
If you said to a current believing Muslim Christian, you know,
Jew, that said to you like, well, my God, this or that, right?
And it's like, well, if you really believe
in God's existence to this degree of, again, the concept of God is so broad.
It's so all encompassing by definition on purpose to give you an answer for all
these things. So the fact that you're trying to put yourself on that level of God
for the Muslims specifically, that's actually a particular concept called shirk.
That's actually a real problem.
That's a big sin, you know, and if you could point that out to them and get them
to accept that they are in this moment, trying to put themselves on the level
of God, they're like, you know, OK, that shut it down.
But yeah, I mean, again, for me personally, when I was a believing Christian,
that was the only answer that was necessary.
Is the simple fact that you and I have to recognize that God is bigger and better,
right? Plain and simple.
If you're disagreeing with that, that's fine.
But you're not the type of believer that I am.
And that's OK.
You could be a different believer.
But what I'm saying is my God is bigger and better than all the problems you ever
want to present. And so if you're sitting here trying to ascribe certain attributes
with with, you know, saying that you have a complete understanding of this,
all I'm going to say is, well, then you're not the type of believer that I am.
You don't have the faith that I do.
And I would argue that my type of faith is the best type of faith.
It's the purest type of faith.
I just leave it all up to God.
You know, Jesus, take the wheel.
Why do you have to? OK, have you ever heard that?
Have you ever heard the joke?
It's it's three three preachers standing around playing golf.
OK. And the first one gets up and he says, hey, I got a good idea.
Let's raise some money for the church.
We're going to take all the money in our pockets.
We're going to throw it up around the hole.
Whatever lands outside of the hole, we give to charity.
The second one goes, I got a better idea.
We take all the money in our pockets.
We throw it up in the air, whatever lands inside the hole, we give it all to charity.
Third preacher says, I got a great idea.
We take all the money in our pockets.
We throw it up as high as we can whenever God wants.
He just keeps. We keep the rest.
See, you leave it all up to God.
That's what you're supposed to do.
That's the true faith, you know.
These other two are wanting these other two are wanting justification.
But why? You already have it.
God, you know, what else do you need?
There's this joke now this has to become like us telling jokes.
But this is not the other day.
That's OK. We're in the final wrap up.
We can do it like we want it.
But I think it's so funny.
It's so it's so brilliant.
It's it's so late.
It's it's actually amazing.
So and I heard this on Ricky Gervais said it on
that show with Seinfeld.
I forgot what's called the comedians in cars getting coffee.
It's like so a Holocaust survivor,
you know, went to Auschwitz, survived Auschwitz,
lived to 100 and died of old age.
He gets to heaven and he goes up to God and he's like,
hey, God, what's going on?
And he goes, he goes, he tells him this joke, a Holocaust joke.
And God doesn't laugh.
And then he says, oh, I guess you have to be there.
And it's like.
Like, it's only funny if you were there.
Like, it's like, man, it's so late because it's like,
if you believe in God, if you believe God,
part of the Red Sea to save his people,
but then he kept the gates of Auschwitz locked.
Right.
You know, like, it's like, damn, dude, I don't know.
It really is.
It is it is the best joke in the world.
It's the best joke in the world, honestly,
because it follows exactly the whole point of a joke, you know,
in general, the understanding for a long time with comedy
is that it's a juxtaposition, right?
You're presented with two things that, you know,
really don't actually go together,
but you're showing how there is something that connects them.
And then seeing that together makes people kind of go, oh,
yeah, I never thought of it like that before.
That's a good point.
That word does sound like that other word.
And so, yeah, when you put those two instances right back to back,
it follows that structure.
It's like the setup is, hey, you know,
so God has chosen people that he protected like 4,000 years ago
that nobody has any evidence of.
And it's like, all right, what's the end point?
And then it's like, apparently he stopped caring, you know,
like apparently he just doesn't do that anymore
because this horrible thing, you know.
So, so you're a big atheist activist, right?
You promote human rights, LGBT rights.
You're an ally.
We're very much similar in the same like we're very similar in that regard.
One thing that I wanted to quickly discuss
is a tweet by Cameron Batuzzi.
Yeah, I saw this.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So he said, by the way, he loves saying, by the way,
it really, he really likes to do that.
By the way, his his ministry needs your support, folks.
He he can't keep going because he recently had a very
wealthy benefactor that that passed.
And yeah, I mean, that was months ago that he said that.
But really? Oh, yeah, you haven't you haven't heard this.
Well, I'll see if I can find it after the stream.
Like it caused some controversy and he ended up like having to apologize and stuff.
And I I I will say, I don't think he meant it in a truly malicious way.
But I think ultimately the way that it it played out did really make it seem like
the problem with that person dying was that he lost money.
So yeah, so like I've reached out to Cameron
multiple times to have him on deep drinks.
I've made videos about it.
I he's seen the tweets.
He's seen like I've tagged Michael James.
Michael James responded.
He's responded to the tweet.
He knows I've invited him on numerous times.
Right. He doesn't want to come on.
And I've noticed I've noticed this trend where he doesn't seem to
he's starting to come across to me as a bad, bad faith actor,
because he doesn't seem to platform.
He doesn't want to have the conversation, it seems, at least publicly.
He wants to just promote the message of Christianity
rather than have an honest conversation and investigate that with people
who can push back on his wildly ridiculous claims.
So until he comes on, which I don't think he will anymore,
because I've been insulting way too many times after we wouldn't come on.
But probably, I don't know, he's still welcome.
But he tweeted out, by the way,
Christians and Christians and Muslims should work together to combat atheism.
As if atheism is like the like a terrorist organization.
Oh, no. Yeah.
And then what do you mean?
Who's another slavery apologist?
He's a slavery apologist, tweeted and said something.
And then he said, atheism isn't much a global threat, statistically.
But it's nevertheless a serious intellectual threat.
Talking here of academic atheism, not online atheism.
Just because atheism isn't a big global threat doesn't mean
it's not worth engaging and responding to.
Hmm.
So my first question is what the fuck is he talking about?
But I don't know what like you're an atheist activist.
I'm an atheist. I would say I'm probably maybe an atheist activist.
I don't even know. But but like.
Atheist is like a position like abstinence is a sex position.
It's like he's saying people need to be having sex.
And we need to combat abstinence because people need to be having sex.
I don't understand what the fuck he's even talking about here.
Can you please like help me to understand
and give us your thoughts on this as we wrap up?
Yeah, yeah, I'll try my best for sure.
I think in part he's he's using the cons.
He's using a concept of atheism there, at least in that initial tweet, I think.
And a super ambiguous way.
And in part, the reason for that is that's how words work.
I don't know if you've ever heard the word Polysemus before.
It almost sounds like semen, but it's not.
It just means words have multiple meanings.
And like, yeah, guys, like that's that's how stuff works, you know.
And I think it's worth taking a few seconds.
It, you know, again, if you're really trying to understand the other person
and where they're coming from, take a few seconds to either
explain certain words that we know have different meanings in different contexts.
Or ask, right?
So I think that I think when he's talking, because in that in that reply
to what do you mean, he says something where he does a little bit better
of differentiating, which I like.
But in that first one, I think what he's talking about is he's thinking
of atheism in this very, very strawman way, where what he is what he is taking
is that standard sitting in the front row of the church.
The atheists have an agenda and they do the this and they're going to make
the whatever's and they're trying to blah, blah.
But in reality, there actually is no.
There really isn't anything like it's it's really just like a single bullet
point on any of these other definitions that that I'm about to talk about.
But like if there's really nothing else to it, you know, like you can be
an atheist and be everything else really at the end of the day, kind of,
except for the things that are obvious, logical, you know, inconsistencies.
But like, again, that's what cognitive dissonance is, where people
hold two beliefs that are logically inconsistent.
So like, I guess you could still do that even, but the point is like in that
first tweet, he's he's using that very, very broad strawman point on purpose
because he knows that's what most people are going to see and nobody else is
going to see anything further.
And so if he clarifies in the comments, that saves him later on when people
accuse him of not being genuine and, you know, blurring the lines of what he
means by that definition, but he also knows that by explaining in the comments
instead of the original tweet, that most of the people who already believe
that follow him are just going to see the original tweet.
So in the response to what do you mean, who said something like nobody even
cares about atheism or something, which I'll just you didn't ask me to.
But I'll just real quick, just to say that, like, just most of the polls
over the last like 50 years seem to show a pretty obvious trend.
Now, you could argue that polling in general is just fucked up.
But hey, that's your stance, not mine.
So so, you know, you you may not think it's growing or whatever, but it's
just literal numbers.
We just count people.
It's just like one, two today and then there's three tomorrow.
That's more so.
But when he goes into that explanation of online atheism versus academic
atheism, what he's actually trying to make the distinction of is is something
that is definitely a conversation in a lot of atheist circles and communities
and stuff where individuals will say, hey, in the philosophical literature,
the the usage of the term atheism is almost exclusively, if not definitely
exclusively used to mean.
Definitely do not believe in God's existence, right?
Not simply I lack a belief, not simply I do not have a belief.
In the academic, philosophic literature, that is correct, just plain and simple.
And I don't really think there's a problem with that any way around it.
We can argue about the semantics and whether or not that is a proper usage or
whatnot. But in part, I kind of feel like that's silly because I'm not a mechanic.
And so if my mechanic tells me that this is the fucking belt or filter that I
need for my car and all the other mechanics do this, it's weird for me to be
like, yeah, but I use a different filter.
So if we're talking in that sense, that seems to be what it means and that's OK.
But a lot of people that take that label, especially in one that's more
maybe I mean, you are an academic Dr.
Kill, that is actually true.
So I mean, I know that's at least true.
And and I think you are an atheist.
I don't know if that technically means you're an academic.
Well, it's like, I, right?
This plus this equals, yeah.
Kip recently told his story on MythVision, like a pre-recorded video
and I'll help Derek out with the editing.
So I did the editing for it.
Man, just wait till that thing drops.
That is such a good interview.
It's only it's like 40 minutes, but it's just Kip's story.
It's just wild and honest.
The first the first time I ever saw Dr.
Kip on a channel, you know, because like I, I, you know,
subscribe to like fucking everything, right?
It's very rare that there's a there's a cool, like atheist, academic,
like, you know, this type of space channel that I don't know about.
The first time I saw him on something, I was like, damn, this dude is good.
Like, like, is he going to be on more shit?
And then it was like a week later and I saw him on like seven other
different shows and stuff.
And yeah, yeah, he's amazing.
Yeah.
But this is the this is a good comment.
My mom likes him.
So like my mom watches this show sometimes and she she she's like, I like Kip.
So she, you know, there's this view that she tells me that she likes mom's Kip.
Everyone loves Kip.
Well, not everyone.
Well, there's probably somebody.
Yeah.
The sex drugs and rock and roll.
You mind?
No, I said I said not everyone Kip knows who I'm talking about.
We've had we've had some private conversations.
Yeah, yeah.
So and and of course, go subscribe to Kip Davis's channel as well.
Kip's coming on again in like another month and it's going to be a wild episode.
I haven't promoted it yet, but just just you guys wait.
So yeah, back to Cameron's.
We've got like another few minutes.
Yeah, yeah, just to wrap up on that.
It's like I don't know why I don't know why it's this.
They clearly see it as like some sort of like a threat or something,
which is which is weird to me.
It's very weird to me.
I know it's like he showed his power level.
It's like it's like that's what it was.
It's a core.
It's a core tenant in the two particular ideologies that he's discussing.
The in in Islam exclusively, right?
The idea of the end of the world is a really big deal.
The idea of like Allah coming back and stuff is so important
that even rocks will start snitching on nearby Jews hiding behind them.
That's how important it is to make sure that you're a Muslim at the end of days.
Christianity is very similar.
Christ comes back with a fucking sword in an army
and he will absolutely walk up to his ankles in the blood of the wicked.
So that's why they see it as a fight is because it's actually
it's actually an inherent part of their ideology.
It truly is.
And so, yeah, like that's why when I take the stance on stuff like,
you know, oh, my gosh, like, yeah, these as just by themselves,
the more people out there that accept an ideology that at its core
says something like that, that if you disagree with me,
the way the whole story plays out is genocide for you and your other peeps.
Like that's a destructive, toxic ideology.
If you believe that and don't act on that in such a way that it is not causing
obvious, tangible harm to other people, you're doing better than the people
who believe that and are causing harm and you're doing better than the people
who don't believe that but are still causing harm.
But still, at the end of the day, the best thing would be to not believe that
and not cause harm, because even just believing that is something that opens
you up to accepting other justification for dehumanization
of people and then therefore more harm.
Like it's just inherent in that belief is my view on it.
Not everybody takes that view and that's fine.
But also, I would say, hey, Cameron, just in case you're not sure about this,
please take a look at the most popular
Dawah individuals in the Muslim community online right now.
Take a look at people like Daniel Hakeekahjou or Ali Dawah or Muhammad Hijab,
Saajid Lipim. Take a look at these people.
He wants to side with.
He wants to side with.
They don't want to side with you.
They want to kill you.
They have literally said those words.
They have said explicitly.
This is not me exaggerating.
Ali Dawah has specifically stated that if you are a non believing Muslim,
you are somebody that deserves death under Islamic law.
He has said that you can argue whether that's true.
That's his belief.
So, yeah, they will not side with you.
But isn't that crazy that he wants to side with them
and he wants to side with Daniel, who recently just said.
Marrying off an 11 month old.
I got to say, OK, one of the greatest one of the greatest debates I saw
inspiring Michael Jones is just one of the most I was impressed.
I I don't know.
I couldn't have done that.
I really don't think that I could have.
Yeah, I was impressed by that performance by him that he kept.
It was so funny, because Michael was Michael, I were chatting beforehand
and he's like, he's like, dude, he's like, this is one study
that he keeps quoting over and over and over again.
And he's like, it's like his one study is like, but he doesn't tell you
that like parts of it are talking about like Muslims loving to be with,
like, you know, don't take away, take away a Muslim, a Muslim's wife,
but don't take away the boy lover child.
Like it's like it's it's it's wild.
Like it really is.
Oh, man. So just as we wrap up, I want to be
wrap up with one last question.
But if anyone wants to be filled in with a camera and the 2 Z drama
with myself, here's a little video I put together called
is God All Powerful and it's a video responding to Cameron's tweet.
I did the same thing as him.
I said, by the way, an all powerful God
shouldn't need to rest on the seventh day.
He got angry and retweeted it and said, by the way,
it never says that God didn't rest on the seventh day.
He's just very panicked.
So he didn't need to, but he chose to.
That sounds stupid. That doesn't seem to make no.
But it's wild.
I go right into it and I go into the scriptures and I go, like, wait a second,
like, you know, like just just watch it.
I think it's a great video and it's only got like 600 views.
But like, check it out.
I use oblivion music and watch this after this.
It's a fantastic little 10 minute video.
But but we've got one super chat.
I just want to read it out.
Dance, discovering ancient history with Pat LaWondra dance.
That's why we're here.
Oh, yeah. Folks, the answer for money over here.
Thank you. So thank you so much for the super chat.
Sydney, Dave's, Junie, Junie, who you introduced
who will become friends, which is coming on soon.
It's going to be awesome.
Yeah, she's just great.
We had a great chat yesterday.
So yeah, y'all just yesterday.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, it was it was good.
It was really good.
The the I wanted to ask you,
I'll ask you one question so we can wrap up on time.
What, if anything, would change your mind?
That's a really good question.
And the answer is, unfortunately,
something that probably is unsatisfying
for the vast majority of believers out there,
because it's a very it's a broad answer.
Because what I say at the end of the day is the same thing.
That I would need to accept any other claim.
My goal is to try to be as consistent as possible
when it comes to this type of stuff, right?
So if somebody comes to me and says,
I bought a car yesterday.
The same thing that I would need to justify the belief in that.
Would be the same thing, which is at the end of the day, basically,
this cute little phrase that's been going around now
in a lot of different communities of like a novel,
testable, repeatable prediction of some kind, right?
So something that is is is obviously only going to be answered
by a handful of different criteria, right?
We say we lay that out beforehand.
We go take a look.
It turns out to be the case.
We go up to other people that have never done it before.
We go, hey, here's our thing.
And they're like, OK, that seems like an interesting hypothesis.
How would we test?
And then you go, here's how you test it.
Then they try it too.
And I just don't go through that level of effort again
for every little thing, just like I don't go through the full justification
for why I picked this bar over that bar.
When it comes to my friend buying a new fucking Honda,
it doesn't matter that much at the end of the day.
Like it just isn't that important.
And accepting that claim doesn't end up giving me all these other burdens later on.
But accepting the claim that Bigfoot exists or accepting the claim
that fairies exist or magic or God or hell,
that ends up providing all these other problems later on.
And so really at the end of the day, it is the exact same criteria.
It's just in a very specified argument.
And that's why it takes a lot to meet that burden of proof.
That's the whole point of Sagan's thought experiment
about the dragon in the garage is it starts to become more and more ridiculous
as you get on.
And by the time you get to that last thing, it's like, OK,
if somebody came up to you and started with just that,
the level of evidence that you would fucking need is so high
that it is basically just acceptable to say that doesn't exist.
Right. Or it's absolutely
indistinguishable from a universe where it doesn't exist. Exactly. Exactly.
Exactly. That's amazing.
Thank you so much, Elliot.
Secularity for coming on.
This this has been a very enjoyable interview.
We could do this again anytime you want.
Yeah, hit me up.
Super, super lovely to talk to you.
Thanks for coming out, guys.
And I'll see everyone later tomorrow with the Sexy Education Panel.
You're going to want to see we're going to head off now.
And you can check out Secularity, his links are in pinned.
And also you'll see him on Ben's show in a couple of minutes.
So see or see all you guys then. Bye.
