Dear members of the congregation, our Pope, Papa Aaron Coulson, has stepped down from
the throne.
The chair is now empty. The throne is empty. If you would like to be the successor to Papa
Aaron Coulson, visit patreon.com slash deepdrinks.
Make a decision, and you make a rule, then you make us fight just to be the one that's going to fall.
Come on people, let me hear you say, you bastards are gonna pay.
Hey, welcome to Deepdrinks, Dr. Kip Davis. How are you doing?
It's great, awesome. Thanks David, I'm doing good. I was rocking out to The Bastards Will Pay by Trouble there.
Yeah, you see, I think I lowered the volume too low. That was too low for me.
Maybe it was a little too low.
It probably was. Before we get started everyone, this, I apologize for being absent for the last few weeks.
I've had some dental surgery and some other life things going on.
I just had my wisdom teeth come out a couple of days ago and she did say that it was okay for me to drink today.
However, I don't think she realized that I'll be drinking, nigga from the barrel, 51% alcohol.
51.4%, I believe, is what my bubble says.
Look, I haven't had any food today. I've had a coffee and I'm hopped up on painkillers as well, so who knows what's going to happen.
This is going to be an amazing show, isn't it?
It's going to be amazing. I'll be drooling and it'll be great.
What are you drinking, everyone? It doesn't have to be alcohol, of course, whatever you're into.
I have a few things. I have a glass of water.
Oh, yeah, I have water as well.
I even have a bottle of Crown Royal here just because this can get a little heavy, right?
It can, yeah. I'll definitely pump in the brakes. I'm not drinking it too much today.
But I'm excited for today because I've been going through your course, the real Israelite religions on MVP courses.
And first of all, there's like four hours of just background information before you even kind of start on the lake.
It's so, I didn't expect it to be this. You're a smart man.
Thank you.
So everyone knows exactly what this is, right?
This is a course I taught at university.
This was a, thank you, Hang Fashi.
So this is going to be, well, maybe there will be a little bit of new stuff here for those who have taken the course.
So this is a second-year course I taught to second-year undergraduates, which is why it's so long.
I taught it for 10 years, so I had lots of time to work through it and tweak it and develop it.
And then when I did the filming for MVP courses, I had the opportunity to work through and change a bunch of things again.
I was going to mention, like, I'm working on a book based on the course, and those first four lectures are the first four chapters of the book, and that's like the first 100 pages.
So it's, yeah, it's a lot.
A little bit about that. And just quickly, is my mic better, everyone?
Did my mic get better just then?
Because I just realized my main mic wasn't turned on.
Everyone hear me? You're all good? No, it's not good. Interesting.
I'll keep working on my mic.
You sound okay to me, but I don't know.
I'll keep working on it.
Is that better?
Does that sound better?
That sounds worse to me, but what is that?
Okay, I'll go with that.
Diddy says yes, that's better, so I mean, just go with that.
All right, awesome, we'll go with that.
Sorry about that, everyone.
That's weird, so it's bad for me, but it's good for the audience.
Weird.
I think what's happening is there might be a bitrate problem and everyone else, like, I'm not sure.
Let's just go with this for now.
I'll tweak it.
Just comment down below.
But what I was going to show everyone is we, this is the course.
So it's, what is it, 14 hours?
As you can see, I'm only a little bit about that.
I've jumped around to some of the later episodes and you told me, you said, stop.
You told me to stop and you wanted me to go in blind for the episode that we're kind of doing now,
which is 3.2 Cosmos creation stories in context.
In context.
Question on.
Yes.
So, yeah.
I mean, how long is the episode is?
Like what?
49 minutes and it's very edited.
Yeah.
So we'll probably take a little bit more time than 40 minutes to get through today.
But there's recommended reading.
There's like, there's the audio versions, there's the video, it's all really well edited.
And the link is in the description.
And if you use that link, it helps out deep drinks because I'm an affiliate.
So if you want to sign up for this course, you like what you hear today.
Support Kip, support myself, support MVP courses and enjoy it.
But yeah, let's jump into it, Kip.
Let's jump into your thing while I work out what's going on with my microphone.
Okay.
Wow.
So, the lecture that I thought I would give today is basically all about Genesis chapter
2 and 3, which is the, I call them, I identify it as the second creation myth in Genesis.
So, I mean, when we, when we approach the book of Genesis and when we approach this topic of creation, I think we're accustomed to thinking about Genesis 1 as a prelude to Genesis chapters 2 and 3.
When we think, if you open up like your English Bible that's got like, like subject headings for the individual parts of the Bible, the stuff that editors have put in, quite often you'll get like for Genesis 1, it'll be creation.
And then on Genesis 2, you know, there's usually another heading to identify part, identify it as part of a continuation of that story.
You know, we've often think of Genesis 2 and 3 as the story of Adam and Eve, for example, or most famously, and I think we have, we have the apostle Paul to think of this, or to thank for this.
We think of Genesis 2 and 3 as the story of the fall, right?
It is quite often how it gets identified, the story of the fall of man.
Actually, why don't we, why don't we bring up the slides right now?
Can you do that?
Because I have already, there we go.
Awesome. That's how it should look because I got this. This is sexy. You ready for this? This is cool.
Oh, yeah, good.
Isn't that awesome?
Oh, that's, yeah.
So I ripped this off, right?
Cosmos is fantastic.
It is a great show.
Yeah, so when I first started teaching this course, it was before Cosmos came back, so that got added in later.
Any of your old university students are watching? They've got something extra already.
There you go. Absolutely.
So do I have, I think I do, yeah.
Oh, no, here we go. We're gonna jump right into it, but before we do, I was just gonna mention,
so much of the ways in which we read the text of Genesis, the text of the Bible,
is through this very Western, Eurocentric, Christian, post-Christian lens.
So when we read something like Genesis chapter two to three, we think about the fall of man.
We think about the entrance of sin into the world.
And right away, I'm gonna, I want to challenge your thinking, David.
I want to challenge everyone's thinking with regards to this story.
Just forget everything that you think you know about this story,
because I'm going to introduce some stuff to you today that is going to be new, I think, for a lot of people.
Just to give you an idea where this comes from,
Paul wrote to, in the epistle to the Romans in chapter five verses 12 to 14,
or verses 12 and 14,
just as through one man's sin came into the world,
also through sin, death.
And so death has passed on to all because everyone has sinned.
Death reigned from Adam to Moses,
even over those whose sins were not the same transgression of Adam.
So Paul has clearly shifted the focus of this story on to this idea of sin, of Adam's sin,
and how that's effective humankind.
And when you open up your Bibles quite often, this is how it's presented.
When you hear preachers preach about Genesis two and three, this is what they talk about.
So ever since you watched Mark Driscoll lose his mind last week about the sword swallower on the pole, you saw that?
No, I didn't see that.
You're kidding, aren't you?
You haven't seen that yet?
Oh my God, you've got to go look this up.
But anyways, this whole thing happened at this ridiculous men's conference that they do at James River Church in Missouri.
But I just brought that up because, you know, watching that, it got me nostalgic.
I've been binging a whole bunch of old Mark Driscoll content, which is something that I do.
Why isn't Mark Driscoll like the guy from, is he from Bethel?
No, he is from Mark.
He founded, he was one of the founders of Mars Hill Church in Seattle.
But this is, you know, I just watched, you know, I just, I just listened to an old sermon of his recently where he presented creation and Genesis chapter two and three in these same terms, right?
This is, this is a story about sin.
This is a story about marriage.
This is a story about, about a perfect world that became infected by human transgression.
And, and this is wrong-headed.
So this, people should know too, if you're, if you're doing this in order, this lecture on Genesis two and three follows on my, my, my full lecture on, on Genesis chapter one.
So some of the stuff there is, is kind of assumed in this lecture.
But one of the, the clear points I want to get across right away is that within the Bible, there is not just one story of creation.
There are several, there's at least two stories of creation.
And then there's several echoes.
There are other texts in the Bible of other stories of creation.
You can see this in places like Psalm 74 or Proverbs eight or Isaiah 14, like these all contain echoes of other creation stories.
So as we're reading Genesis two and three, I want you to think about this as an independent story of creation.
And like any good story, you have to, you have to sort out what's going on, what it's about.
And because this is a creation myth, I'm going to, I'm going to ask you, David and, and the viewers to set your sights on a couple of important questions.
We're going to start by, by reading the story and, and we're going to read it from my, my favorite version of the Bible.
Can I, can I ask a quick question?
Yeah, absolutely.
Long time since I've been out of the game in regards to Young Earth creationist memes for a while now.
Okay.
Well, sometimes watch apology just because like the content's amazing.
But man, it's just so tiring to watch Young Earth creation stuff these days.
But, but I, so, so explain to me, if there are two creation stories, like explicitly two creation stories in Genesis one and Genesis two to three, I think it is.
How do they rectify them?
Like what's the, I guess, what's the apologist answer to that problem?
The apologetic for connecting the two stories.
So the idea is that Genesis one provides like a big picture of cosmic creation.
And then Genesis two and three is like, is, is like a narrow focus on just day six and the creation of Adam and Eve, the human beings and everything that happens.
So that's, that's just very generally the kind of apologetic will get.
But do they line up?
Like do the days line up from the first?
Like, do they like, no, they don't line up.
No, there's several problems, right?
And these are some of the questions that we need to keep in mind.
In the first place, like when you, when you look at just the second creation story without presuming the first story, you're going to see differences, right?
First of all, you're going to notice that, that God behaves differently in this story than he does in the first story.
And, and right away, that's, that's one of the questions, right?
What sort of God is this who is creating in Genesis two and three?
And how does that contrast with, with the God of Genesis one?
He's got a different name.
There's, there's different aspects of his character and his work in terms of creation from Genesis one.
And then really importantly, what sort of world is he creating?
Because as, as I mentioned, the, a young earth creationist or, you know, someone who assumes that the Bible is univocal will want to focus in on this story as an expansion of what's happening in Genesis chapter one.
So they will make assumptions about things that aren't there in the text, right?
But importantly, as much as what's over in the story, we also need to pay attention to what's not there as a means to, to understand exactly what's going on.
And why?
Does that, does that make sense?
Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah.
I did notice, I just wanted to cover this, somebody in the chat did ask the question about which of the two stories is older.
I think most scholars are almost, are in wide agreement about this, that this story is older than Genesis chapter one.
And in many respects, chapter one is trying to recontextualize what's happened, you know, what this story in a different sort of framework and is actually providing an apologetic based on problems that they perceive from this story.
Right. And I will, I will maybe point out a couple of those as we go.
Don't make me get a mythologist again, because I will.
No, but I, why would Moses write two, two versions of the story?
Sorry.
Like seriously, I don't know, I don't know what he was thinking.
So I am doing, the alcohol has already affected me, which I don't even know if it's possible in 18 minutes in and I've only had this.
Something's affecting me, but what I've discovered, I'm doing a video on apologetics.
And what I've discovered is a lot of the Bible is just apologetics for other parts of the Bible.
Does that make like, you know, I mean, like, yeah, absolutely.
And then it'll recontextualize.
Oh, we need to fix that.
Yeah, yeah. And yeah, anyway.
So, yeah, so should we maybe bring the screen up and just go through the story.
And when I teach this course, this is, this is kind of how I do it.
Right away, we're going to read the story.
And, and the Brick Bible's version is great because it's visual.
And because Brandon Paul Smith or Elba Sperling, as they refer to themselves now, the author, the creator of this masterpiece has paid very close attention to what's going on in the text in an effort to recreate these environments.
So let's just go ahead and read this.
On the day Yahweh God made the earth and the heavens, no planter shrub had yet sprung up because Yahweh God had not caused it to rain and there was no man to work the ground.
And Yahweh God formed and the Adam from the dirt of the ground.
And he breathed into his nostrils the breath of life.
It literally says he breathed into his nose. It's pretty cool.
Yeah.
And the man became a living being.
So I'm going to pause here because something that is missing from this version of the story in Brandon Paul Smith's telling is a section of geography that I just want to draw some attention to.
So I'm going to read verses 12 through 14 of Genesis 2 after Yahweh God has planted the garden in Eden and it says here with the tree of life in the middle of the garden and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.
And then the narrative takes a little break there to discuss sort of the wider geography and I think it's useful to spend a little bit of time looking at this.
Here's what the text says.
A river flows out from Eden giving drink to the garden and from there it diverges and becomes for headwater.
The name of the first is Peshon.
It encircles the entire land of Havala where there is gold and the gold of that land is good.
There is also bedolah or amber which is a type of precious metal or a stone and the stone of Soham or redstone.
The name of the second river is Gihon.
It encircles the entire land of Kush.
The name of the third river is Tigris.
It goes eastward from ashore.
The name of the fourth is Euphrates.
I'm just going to switch here and I'm going to read from the chapter that I've written on this to point something out.
One of the things that we note in distinguishing this story from Genesis chapter one is that there's not such a strong focus on what I call cosmic geography and the shape and the appearance, the broad shape and appearance of this place.
There's a small exception here.
The world is both nourished by water and surrounded by it.
The waters and earth are similarly distinguished but in this world there is no sea.
You'll notice it's only rivers, right?
Just rivers and land.
The picture here is of a great river originating in this place in Eden and flowing through the garden by plants
and from there branching into four tributaries, all of which are named.
Significantly all four of the rivers are also geographically identified with locations.
There's been much energy expended and much written about the specific locations of these places.
We know clearly of two of them and you've probably heard of these two rivers, the Tigris and the Euphrates.
The Tigris is a massive and important river flowing southeast from modern Turkey and then into the Euphrates river before emptying into the Persian Gulf.
It was an important river in the mythology and religion for both the Hittites and the Sumerians.
The river is said to flow east from ashore, which was the ancient capital of Assyria.
It remained a consequential sacred center for the Neo-Assyrian emperors in the mid-iron age.
These were the people who were ruling in Assyria during the 8th, 7th centuries BCE, right at the time of the early stages of the kingdoms of Judah and Israel.
The story does not locate the Euphrates river, but this river was widely known throughout the ancient world and the name of it was always interchangeable with the city and the region of Babylon,
which was the splendid capital of the great empire of the same name perched on the shores of the river.
But the other two rivers are unknown. Some commenters suggest that their names are more descriptive than locative.
And what I mean by that is they describe the rivers we're doing.
For instance, Pishon is from a verb meaning to leap and Gihon is literally the springer out.
So it's kind of describing the activity of the water.
There are various ideas about the identification of these two rivers and in no small part because of their description surrounding entire readings.
You'll notice that when I read it, it said that these rivers literally just encircle the entire land of Kush or the entire land of Havala where there's gold, right?
And this is something that rivers don't do.
So what is like what's going on here?
The land of Kush is commonly identified with Ethiopia or Nubia, which is in like ancient geographical terms.
Egypt is basically the Nile delta and south and Nubia is just further south from that along the Nile river.
And that's kind of what's considered the land of Kush.
And this could be in view here as a description of the division between of all the great empires at creation.
So in this reading, Kush could be just East Africa.
However, some have suggested that this could otherwise be with reference to a group of people known as the Kassites who were living in the Zagros Mountains in modern Iran.
And they ruled the Babylonian, they ruled the city of Babylon for about 400 years from the 16th to the 12th centuries BCE.
But the important point here is to note that we don't know where these rivers are or what they're doing.
But I tend to think that this is descriptive of the entire world as it was understood by the readers of this story.
That it was a world that was basically defined by these great rivers.
Well, this is super interesting because to me, this is a very telling problem that I find with the Bible.
If taken as the literal perfect word of God, like it's like if taken as true.
And I shared this with you yesterday.
There's a little side project I've been working on that may or may not come out, but it's a book on deconstruction.
And these are just my notes.
But this is an image I put together based on images that I saw online.
But does the biblical God play a favourites?
Does he bestow special privilege upon particular groups, regions or era?
According to the narratives of the Bible, it might seem so.
Each divine intervention, every exile, the conquering of each city, every miraculous recovery, each resurrection from the afterlife,
every brutal prosecution and every sudden conversion all took place within the distinct inked circle on the world map.
So like this, I mean, maybe is the world map that you're describing, would it be bigger than this little circle here?
No, maybe a little bit.
Well, it would probably stretch as far east as the Persian Gulf there, which is where Mesopotamia is, right?
But it's not very big.
And bring that picture back up for a second and I'll point something else out to you where I think this can make some practical sense.
If you just zoom in there on the dot that you were zooming in before.
I don't know where I...
Oh.
Alright, give us two seconds.
Sorry.
Let me just share it again.
This is welcome to Tech Break Tuesdays with Tech Breaks.
Well, it's Thursdays anyway.
At least someone's complaining about your mic.
So if you look at like, if you look at where the dot is, and then like just just to the south of that dot is the Red Sea.
And as I mentioned, you know, the the entire Arabian Peninsula is surrounded by water.
There's the Persian Gulf on the other side of the Arabian Peninsula, which into which like the Tigris and the Euphrates rivers empty.
If you look at it this way, and if you think about about the extent of this world as people understand it, you could get the sense of how they thought they were surrounded by rivers, right?
Yeah.
They knew that, you know, for the Red Sea, for example, they knew was bounded on two sides by land by the Arabian Peninsula on the one side and by Egypt on the other side.
So in their imagination, maybe this was just like a gigantic river.
Similar with with with the Persian Gulf is the is is the emptying point of, you know, these other two great rivers.
So it's I just I just make this point to kind of kind of say, you know, it's not it's not as silly as you think it is.
If you're if you're limited in in these sorts of ways through the geography and also through our, you know, ideas of what a river is compared to an ocean or a lake or a sea, right?
These ideas could be more fluid in this in this ancient mindset.
But let's bring the slide back up and we'll we'll continue in the story here.
So Yahweh God planted this Sunday school.
Yeah, it's great.
And he planted these two trees in the middle of the garden.
Then Yahweh God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to look after and to maintain it.
Yahweh God commanded the man from every tree of the garden, you may freely eat, but from the tree of knowledge of good and evil, you may not eat.
For the day that you eat from it, you will surely die.
Then Yahweh God said, it's not good for the man to be alone.
I will make him a helper, his counterpart.
From the dirt, Yahweh God formed every animal of the field and every bird of the sky.
He brought them to the man to see what he would call them.
And whatever the man called them, that was its name.
Oh, I'll call you Murdoch.
But no suitable help was found for the man.
I think that's what it says underneath the, yeah, I think so.
Then Yahweh God caused a deep sleep to fall on the man.
And while he slept, he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh in its place.
From the rib, Yahweh God had taken from the man he made a woman.
There's so many things that I want to interject with, but it's going to take some whole other path of like...
It probably won't.
And I expect we'll cover some of this as we go through it.
He brought her to the man and the man said, this is at last bone of my bones, flesh on my flesh.
She will be called woman because she was taken out of man.
This is why a man leaves his father and mother and clings to his wife and they become one flesh.
I guess we should have put like a PG-13 warning on this.
Yeah, I mean, I'm going to get demonetised now.
Is there a possibility?
I always thought this, that the two will become one flesh.
I've always wondered, was that just like their version of sex education?
Like, hey, just so you know, when you have sex, like you kind of go into each other and you become one flesh.
It's an expression. It's certainly an expression of that.
We will talk a little bit about what's going on there and what ancient people thought about.
The relationship of this two creation, it's really important.
So, I think I got one more.
Let me take this opportunity to ask, if my wife is watching, would you like to become one flesh later?
Anyway, back to the story.
Back to creation.
And the man and his wife were both naked and they were not ashamed.
Look how confident they look.
It's great.
Yeah, so now we've read through a version of this story, a very visual version of this story.
And I'm going to raise these questions again.
What is different about God as he appears in this story and what you can recollect from Genesis 1?
What about his name or his designation?
What's different in the depiction of his being or his character or even the ways in which he creates?
I don't know. Do you have any thoughts about that just at the outset?
No, not at all, actually.
Okay.
Because it's been a while since I've looked into it.
Read Genesis 1?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And unfortunately, you haven't got that far in the course yet either.
So that's actually true.
If you want to get the background knowledge, my God, there is a lot of...
I felt like I learned so much.
And again, I've had my wisdom teeth taken out.
I'm hopped up on drugs.
I'm watching in bed, falling asleep, waking up, playing it again.
Oh, dear.
Okay.
Well, first of all, I'll help you out here.
Why did the outset...
One of the things that we see that's quite different...
Just bring the slides back up here again.
So what's different about God, his name and his designation, his depiction, the method of creation?
What's different about this environment compared to Genesis 1?
We'll talk about all of these things, right?
About the pre-creative form.
What did the world look like before God started creating in this story compared to Genesis 1?
These all give us important clues about how these stories are different and how they're answering different questions.
So there's a different order of creation in this story compared to Genesis 1.
Most importantly, one of the things that everyone who's a little bit familiar with that story compared to this one should pick up on
is the very first thing God creates in this story, man.
What's the first thing he creates in Genesis 1?
In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.
Now, the earth was formless and empty.
Darkness was over the surface of the deep and the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters.
Genesis 1 is a world of water in the beginning, right?
And then the first thing God creates there is what?
There you go.
And then he divides the light from the darkness.
He divides the land from the water.
Then he plants trees and plants.
Then he makes fish and then he makes animals.
And he finally makes man.
Oh, he puts the stars in the sky up there too.
So he does all of these things before he went around to creating the man.
But here in Genesis 2 and 3, this is the first thing he does is creates the man.
And then he makes animals or sorry, he makes the trees first and the plants.
And then he makes animals.
So there's already a different order of things that's going on here.
And I think that's significant to what this story is about.
But ultimately, when we think about these ancient stories,
we're really trying to set our focus on the purpose.
The ways in which things are being described and in terms of their creation
is all geared toward this idea that everything has its own designated purpose.
So our task here is to ask what is the purpose of these things that God is making in this story?
What is the purpose of the trees and the garden and the animals and the man?
Why did he make all of this stuff?
So first off, right, let's look at my notes here.
Right away, I'm going to point out that one of the key differences between this and the first story
is in this story, God is consistently called Yahweh.
Whereas in the Genesis 1 story, he's called Elohim.
And this was originally one of the early ways, the first ways that early readers of this story started to key in
on the idea that these were different stories.
But this God is just, he just doesn't have just a different name.
He's different in terms of how he creates.
When it describes Yahweh creating the first human, it says that Yahweh God literally shaped the man.
And you remember the picture, right?
He's sitting there in the dirt with the man shaping him out of the dirt of the ground.
And then he breathed into his nose a life breath and he became a living being.
So the image presented here is of a potter.
And it's the same verb used for potting, basically, like shaping clay on a potter's wheel.
So this is what this God is.
He's an artisan working with the materials of the earth to build things.
And this is different from Genesis 1 where God basically creates by uttering words and dictating things into existence by feet.
The God here, I would suggest, is different.
He's getting his hands dirty.
He's shaping, is forming the man, as I said, as an artisan potting clay with his hands into a usable vessel.
That's what pottery was.
Pottery was the formation of usable vessels for areas of the text.
This God is more present and not so distantly removed from the world as the cosmic dictator in Genesis 1.
So reading further in the story, what's different about the world?
What's different about its early form?
And the order of creation, I think we saw those already on the side.
I mentioned there's a contrast to the watery world in Genesis 1.
It was all these chaotic frothing waters.
Here in Genesis 2, unlike the cold, dark, deep waters of chaos that cover the earth,
this is a world of barren dirt.
It's land. It's land and rivers.
It says that there was a mist that hovered over the earth because God hadn't sent rain yet, that watered the earth.
But it's basically a sand wasteland.
And in response to this condition, the first thing that God does is he plants a garden.
Now, we often have this tendency to think about the garden as this paradise.
This natural paradise out in the woods.
I think at home, I'm eating the pig who's like, oh, try some of this.
And that's what I remember.
Exactly. And we tend to think of the garden too as something that God created for man.
A place for him to live.
But you'll notice as we work through this story a little bit more carefully,
that the garden is not so much creative for the man as the man is created for the garden.
Because in this story, as throughout the Hebrew Bible where this garden is mentioned,
it's actually called, here it's called the garden that is in Eden.
Sometimes it's called Garden of Eden.
But in the handful of other places in the Hebrew Bible where this particular garden is mentioned,
it's called the Garden of God.
It's God's garden.
It's for him.
Right.
Someone mentioned something really interesting too.
Terj said pottery, the technology of the era.
And it's very interesting.
Is that true?
Pottery was the hip thing at the time?
Yeah, absolutely.
It's interesting because I wonder if this was happening now,
would God be using cryptocurrency and whatever?
God, I hope not.
Adam is an NFT or something.
We're all non-fungible.
But yeah, it's interesting because it's similar to that though.
It paints this idea that that's very, because it changes the dynamic what you're saying.
It's not about us.
We're like God's playthings.
And that kind of lines up more with Scripture, it seems.
God created us.
And then he was mad with us.
You know what I mean?
And then he was happy.
It seems to line up that where a pet is what the text is kind of saying,
like a pet for God.
We don't think it's a controversial opinion.
It's not, I wouldn't say like a pet.
And this is one of the things that you see is a regular theme
throughout a variety of creation stories in the ancient Near East
is that human beings were created to serve or basically be slaves
working for the benefit of the gods.
And I would suggest that that's reflected in this story here too.
I'm just going to look at what I have next here.
Some of this is a bit out of order.
So, yeah, so we'll get to that in a few minutes.
But I just want to leave with that for now and then we'll pick it up in a few minutes.
The creation of man, it says it literally like the story says
God made the man out of the dirt.
Then it says he planted this garden and then it says he took the man
and set him in the garden to till and to tend it.
To work and to keep it are the words.
And we'll get into this a little bit.
Another way to translate these words are to slave after and to garden.
So, right off the man's purpose is to work the garden,
to look after the garden that Yahweh God has planted here.
So, man has been built to work.
Is this the Genesis 3 version or the Genesis 1 version?
This is Genesis 2.
And this is different from Genesis 1 where humankind is created as a reflection of God's power and dominion.
When I teach Genesis 1, I talk about humankind as like a victory monument of God
expressing his power and his dominance over the earth.
So, they're almost kind of like a strong arm of God.
Whereas here, it's all about working for God and looking after his garden.
Someone mentioned earlier that these two stories came from different sources.
Can you quickly explain the sources around?
The traditional perspective is that Moses wrote the Pentateuch,
but it also talks about his funeral and aftermath.
So, very briefly, the Pentateuch was not written all by Moses.
It was formed out of at least a few independent sources.
Scholars have disagreements about what the sources were and a little bit about where they came from.
Most popularly, it's known that the most popular source theory is the documentary hypothesis,
which posits that there were four sources that scholars called J, E, D, and P,
the Yahweh's, the Yellow's, the Deuteronomic source, and the Priestly source.
It's become quite a bit more nuanced then, and the existence of all of these is a matter of some dispute.
I would say that most scholars would agree that there's definitely a Priestly source or a P source,
and that a bunch of stuff that's non-P, but is also maybe not all from the same source.
That's what we're dealing with here, is the Genesis 1 story is the Priestly account of creation.
Now, in Genesis 2 and 3, we have a different story that was written earlier than that,
and this is more likely the Yahweh's account or the non-P account.
This story probably stemmed from within the land of Judah, like within the land of Israel,
whereas the Genesis 1 story might have been written from outside in Babylon or in the Persian Empire,
or something to that effect.
All people need to know is that scholars generally agree that there's a lot of sources behind the construction
of the Pentateuch as we have it today, and most of the work in the Pentateuch is focused on this,
on identifying the sources and their origins and their composition and where they came from.
And how they got pulled together.
Right, so let's talk a little bit about something else that's critical to this story.
You'll notice right away God creates the man, he puts him in the garden,
and then the first thing he says is that this isn't good.
The man needs help is literally what the text says.
No suitable partner was found for the man, so his response to that is to create animals.
He brings them to the man, the man names the animals, and in that naming process it's discovered,
and the man and God seem to make this discovery together that this isn't going to work for whatever reason.
We're not told exactly what the problem is, but you can sort of read between the lines here,
because the response then is for God to create a woman out of the man,
and then you have this rather touching description of these two coming back together in a sexual union.
So by implication there's something within this story that is also about sex.
And one of the things that's being communicated in this story is that you shouldn't have sex with animals.
I mean it's basically that simple at the heart of it.
We're not going to dwell on that for now though, but this is something that people need to bear in mind.
As we read through the story just how closely some of these ideas and the language and the way it's presented
is tied to human sexuality and to the part that plays in creation
and in making discernments between the mortal and the immortal
and between knowledge and ignorance. All of this stuff is tied up together.
So we see in verses, I'm just going to look at my slides here.
Okay, let's bring this up.
So I'm going to introduce a word at this point.
Genesis chapter 2 and 3 are what we call an etiology. Do you know this word, David?
No, I was being silly.
Oh, were you? Okay.
I'm not a smart man. I know what love is.
I was going to say it.
So an etiology is a story that's told to explain mysterious elements of who we are, where we came from,
what's our purpose, why do we do the things that we do?
There's one biblical scholar, the way that he says it.
I quite like it. His name is Don Benjamin and he says,
the Hebrews lacked both the data for and the interest in forging a chain between themselves and early humans.
Instead, they told creation stories, put human life in their time into perspective.
Their creation stories are not reports about the past.
They are timeless reflections on human life.
So they're not necessarily, even though they're doing their best to reach into the distant past to figure out where this stuff started.
But this is all about explaining why we do the things we do now, why we behave the way we do now.
Why do we find ourselves in the circumstances that we do?
I was just going to ask a quick question.
How likely do you think it was that the early Israelites, the people who were writing this stuff, cared that much about truth?
Do you look at the conversation around creationism and evolution and people get defensive and heeded about what is factually true?
Do you think people in ancient times cared as much about how factual any of these stories were?
Or they're more of a traditional story that you kind of, I don't know, the facts are beyond the point?
We've had so much of the ways in which we just process reality have been shaped by intellectual social forces from the medieval period and the Enlightenment and the Scientific Revolution.
And all these things have contributed so much to just the ways in which we think and the ways in which we process these questions that it's almost not even a fair question to ask.
I would say ancient people cared very deeply about truth and they were certain that they understood and they desperately wanted to understand the way things worked and how the world was.
And what was right and wrong and what was true and false.
But there were different paths to discovering that and it was processed and understood in different terms.
It was less important to, it was most important to understand the, everything had meaning is maybe a better way to think about this.
I don't think they had such a strong sense of brute facts in the same way that we do.
They had a sense of everything as being interconnected and part of a grand explanation.
So the goal was always to discover the meaning of things.
So it was much, it wasn't as important to fixate on say the number of days in creation, there were six days in creation.
And these were 24 hour days and there was a sunrise and a sunset over each day.
And let's reconstruct in our minds what that looked like so much as why were there six days?
And what do those six days mean and how does that translate into the ways that we do things now and our interactions with the divine now?
So it had much more to do with discovering meaning and purpose than what I would call like brute facts.
There's an old idea that if a lion could speak English we wouldn't be able to understand it.
Have you heard that saying before?
I haven't.
The idea is like if a lion could speak English you couldn't understand it because your worldviews are so far apart that you wouldn't have nothing to grab onto to make references to things and to explain things.
It's an interesting thought experiment but I wonder how much if you could bring an early Israelite folk into the 21st century or to now and they could speak English.
I wonder how much we could actually effectively communicate beyond a surface level.
I wonder if our worldview and the things that we reference and understand are so foreign to them that it's become a really hard thing to even just have a conversation.
Even in terms of ways in which the liver for an ancient Israel is akin to your gut so they have this way of processing information that actually goes through their organs, their internal organs in a sense that we don't.
But I think you're probably onto something with that.
One of the things and maybe you did pick up on this in the very first lecture in the course, one of the things I lay out right at the beginning is that this is a weird world.
The Bible's weird like when you look at it as a modern person and you understand it and you're reading it carefully it shouldn't make sense.
It really shouldn't because our worlds are just so different from one another and that's why it takes so much work to get to what's going on in the text and that's where it gets fun.
Because once you dig into what's going on in the mindset of these people as they're practicing their religions and they're writing their texts, then you start to understand what that looks like for them and to transpose what that means for us.
Then that's when it becomes super fun, right?
I was going to ask one last like another question, but is it true that they thought of the earth as flat or at least didn't think of it as a sphere?
That's pretty well established.
There's no good reason. There's no tax. There's no good reason to expect that they didn't, right?
But by the same token it's not explicit either because it's one of these things that was just so widely assumed.
Why would you think the world was round?
It's not intuitive, which is something that the Flat Earthers keep pounding away at, right?
It's just not what I see when I look out onto the world.
It looks flat. It behaves in the way that seems like it's flat, right?
So why would they think it was anything other than that?
Yeah.
You ready to move on here?
So ideologians were first promoted by this dapper looking gentleman within biblical studies.
This is Herman Gunkel, and he used this idea of ideologies as a way of reading, of thinking that many biblical traditions were formed and transmitted in Israelite societies
as explanations of how things came to be the way they are.
He developed this idea, it's a German term that is still prominent within biblical studies,
or setting in life.
And this idea states that the stories in the book of Genesis were collected from small individual tales that shed light on their setting in life for the first readers.
Tied to this idea of the original setting, Gunkel pointed out that these stories were not literature having been produced as written documents,
but at first were stories told in an oral culture passed down for generations and centuries.
So they weren't told for their literary and historical purposes in the ways that we understand history, at least.
They were told to explain the present, to explain how things came to be the way they are,
and the modern term that scholars have applied to this way of thinking that Gunkel developed is form criticism.
Form criticism is exploring various forms of biblical literature in an effort to understand what they mean.
So when approaching a story like this second creation myth, this story in Genesis chapter 2,
it's worthwhile exploring these questions of meaning, and also for whom and why it was meaningful.
So as I'm going to continue, I'm going to talk about the creation of the garden and the creation of man as a reflection on human enterprise,
a type of anthropology, and I'm going to talk about the man in three terms.
The man or the Adam in this story is a farmer, he is a pastoralist or a herdsman, and he's a lover or a sexual being.
And these are at the heart of what's going on in Genesis chapter 2.
So we're going to start with Adam, the farmer.
And we begin in Genesis 2 verse 6 with the formation of the first man.
We call him Adam as a name, but it's not a personal name, at least it's not a personal name yet.
It's a description of where he came from.
And the way that he's designated within the text is not as Adam, but Ha Adam, or the Adam.
So it's got the definite article there at the front.
So, you know, as I said, it's not a main name.
It eventually comes to mean humankind or refer to humankind, but we're not there yet.
It's used in the first creation myth in Genesis 1 to describe the creation of man, also with the definite article.
It says God created the man or the Adam in his image.
But this is not an ordinary man, as we shall come to discover.
He is the primitive man, the first who embodied all humankind.
I think from the perspective of this writer, he contains within him every race, every gender, every culture, every possibility, all in one being.
Because of his distinction, I usually choose to translate the word neither as the name Adam, nor as the general man, but rather as the Adam, the first human before any man.
He's not really like you or like me.
He's quite different.
So, first of all, it's a, oh, yeah, let's, okay, let's move on to this.
First of all, the Adam takes his name from the dirt.
The word for dirt in this story in Genesis 2 is Adam.
And you can hear it in, right?
Adam is derived directly from this word for Adam.
And it makes sense because that's how he was formed.
He was shaped out of clay or the dirt from the ground by Yahweh's hands.
So, the significance of this is tied directly to his envisioned purpose and function, the envisioned purpose and function of mankind.
But we must see this as quite distinct from how humans are imagined in Genesis 1.
They're pictured there more like physical manifestations of God.
They're created literally in the image of God.
But here, they're dirt.
They were created from the dirt and they're made for the dirt.
So, there's actually, sorry, I'll let you go.
No, okay.
Yeah, so unlike in the first creation story, there's, so the first creation story depicts the pre-created world as this hostile, watery world of frothing chaos.
It's just covered in these dark, cold waters.
And this is very different.
So, it's not, this world is one of unusable farmland.
It's wilderness.
It says in verse 5 there in Genesis 2, 5, before every shrub of the field was on the earth, before every grain of field would sprout because Yahweh God had not sent rain upon the ground.
And importantly, there was no man to work the soil.
Now, I want you to catch this because the point is quite subtle.
Both the stories in Genesis 1 and 2 presuppose the station of human beings in both their task with the supervision over the rest of the natural world.
In Genesis 1, God says you have dominion and rulership.
Your task is to subdue the rest of the natural world that I've just put into order.
But here, so here, the function of the way this takes place is quite different.
In Genesis 1, humankind is set to rule and subdue nature, as I said.
But here, the Adam's work is not dominion, but it's service, or you could even say it's slavery.
Yahweh first forms the man, the Adam, sorry, in verse 7, then he plants the garden and he put the Adam whom he had shaped there.
So the purpose of the creation of the man of the Adam is to cultivate the garden that God has planted.
And as I said, this is God's garden. He's planted it for himself.
In verse 15, the Adam's purpose is made explicit.
He has been taken by Yahweh and settled in the garden to work and to watch is a good translation of the Hebrew there.
The JPS says to till and to tend, which I quite like.
And the picture is of man farming the land, right?
But there's an added significance to the usage of these two words together to till and to tend or to work and to watch or to slave and to keep as I have here on the screen.
And these words together carry with them like these religious cultic connotations.
Both words are used often if of the Israelite priestly group known as the Levites.
To describe their service to Yahweh specifically in the 10th Sanctuary known as the Tabernacle or in the Jerusalem Temple.
In numbers 3, verse 7 to 8, for example, do I have this on the screen?
No, not yet. My slides are ahead. I'm sorry.
So but in numbers 3, 7 to 8, it says this, now listen to this statement.
They shall perform their duties and this is the same word or literally keep the watch.
They shall keep the watch for him and the charge of the whole congregation before the 10th of meeting, doing the work or performing the service or slaving for the Mishkan or the Tabernacle.
They shall keep, that's the same word again, or take charge, regard all the furnishings of the 10th of meeting and charge the people of Israel to do the work of the Tabernacle.
It's the same words that are being used there as being used here.
So this really has, there's a couple of things going on here.
The man is created for to look after this garden that God has planted, but the garden itself seems to be an expression of a sacred space.
It's reflective of the Tabernacle or the Temple.
These ideas are all being imported into this story.
So, but let's talk a little bit about what this place is, the garden in Eden.
So it's been, I've mentioned this before, it's been romanticized into this unboiled wilderness and used for commentary on, you know, man's purpose to commune with nature.
You know, we, I think, I think we tend to gravitate to this sort of reading in our strongly urbanized cultures where people sequester themselves in cities and work, where working convenience are most readily found.
And with this, for many, comes a longing for the outdoors, getting out of the city, getting back to nature.
We have this idea of the untouched, untrammeled world, you know, that hasn't been infected by human enterprise.
So, and we tend to think that that's what's going on in this story.
But this isn't God's garden.
The Hebrew writer of this story doesn't see an untampered natural vista.
It's an attractive idea.
And as much as our own modern environmental concerns might prefer this reading, the Garden of God was actually like a sculpted landscape garden.
It was an urban masterpiece.
It's rather set in sharp contrast to the undeveloped uninhabited wilderness.
Right?
When the story starts, that's all there is.
It's just like this wasteland and what God does is he makes the man and then he plants this urban garden.
This is all about forming civilization.
Whoa.
That is wild.
Right?
This actually says a lot about God as well.
This whole story.
I had people arguing with me on Twitter.
Again, I shouldn't be arguing with people on Twitter, but I can't help myself sometimes.
And people were saying that God is not physical or God doesn't have physical.
And I'm like, what are you talking about?
First of all, why does God need to make humans out of clay?
It seems weird.
He's using his hands.
He's walking in the garden.
When you look at breathing into him with his lungs, when you look at him, he's resting on the seventh day.
What kind of an all-powerful God needs to rest?
That's a different story, but yeah.
Yeah, I mean, but like even you look at it, it seems very, you know, it seems to me when I read the Bible,
it seems much more like God was made in our image than we were made in God's image.
Like God gets angry.
He loves, he cares, he cries, he weeps.
He is like happy.
He feels all the emotions that you wouldn't expect an all-powerful and all-knowing being.
He gets confused.
He makes mistakes.
He doesn't, you know, like it's very clearly to me God was made in our image and not the other way around.
Yeah, no, I think you're absolutely right about that.
And this is something that I think people, and that's why I spent so much time on background information at the beginning of this course.
Because we have to unravel, we have to undo all these things that we've just come to assume about God and about religion and about the Bible.
Excuse me, from like years and years of shaping and growing up in this western world, this western culture that's been so shaped by these sorts of ideas.
In antiquity, in the ancient Near East, gods were not unlimited.
They were not omniscient.
They were not omnipresent.
They were big and they were strong and were smart and they were they were extremely powerful and frightening, but they were just like people.
The way I put it is they're like people in every respect, only more and bigger.
I think at one point in the book, I make the statement that gods have big feelings.
And that's something because lots of times when you read stories, and I think this is part of what's being communicated,
lots of times when you read stories in the Bible where the feelings of God are being expressed or when you read some of the other ancient Near Eastern literature,
which speak of gods acting on their feelings, it seems extreme.
But I think this is part of it, right?
They're just so much more than humans than, yeah, like their reactions are extreme, just like everything else about them.
Just a reminder, if anyone's enjoying this course, I've seen a few people comment that they're really enjoying this lecture.
This is just like one part, like a relaxed version of one part of the whole series, which is available, like obviously links in the description.
If anyone does sign up during this episode, just let us know and we'll count that as a super chat and you can ask a question to Kip in the comments because it's helping out the channel and helping out Kip and MVP courses.
Yeah, it's just be warned though, just be warned, it's dense.
Well, I'm going to have to watch it a couple of times because it's dense.
It's got a lot of information there, which is really good.
It's what you want from a course.
I think so.
Yeah, and we're never going to get through this lecture tonight.
I'm aware of that now.
We'll go for as long as we can.
So yeah, so this garden, as I said, is an urban masterpiece.
So now this makes sense because the people who wrote, who told these stories and who wrote these stories,
stories in which historians and sociologists and anthropologists and archaeologists have sort of reconstructed the history and the formation of the early Israelites.
There's this, I'm going to come back to the, there's this running theme throughout the early parts of Genesis.
And it's here in this story too, of a movement away from the city and into the wilderness.
And this is reflective of a bit of an historical reality.
You know, this contrast between the garden, the urban garden and the untamed wilderness outside is makes sense from within the physical geography of the people who lived in Israel.
Like the cultivated lush valleys of the Jordan River or the Shephala, which is where most of the Philistine cities were, and the grazing paths in the north and the southern highlands were dotted.
Sorry.
I'm going to say it's clipping a little bit for you.
People are saying I'm just going to bring you out and then bring you, hopefully that fixes it.
Am I?
Am I back?
Yeah, sounds better.
Okay, so, you know, okay, so, you know, there were these places that were, you know, lush and valuable as places for grazing and growing food and stuff, and they were, of course, dotted by these Canaanite cities, these monuments of human achievement.
And this then gets set in sharp relief against, you know, the rocky highlands above them and the trackless wilderness beyond the transjordan to the east.
And if you watch the second lecture, which is all about the geography of this place, you'll have a stronger sense of what I'm talking about here.
So, now, but moreover, the text was also influenced by encounters with the powerful Neil Babylonian later in the sixth century BCE.
In particular, our imagination settle on the legendary Hanging Gardens of Babylon.
Look, I have a picture.
There's a photograph of the Hanging Gardens of Babylon.
I'm just kidding.
This is a painting, but this is a painting by a Dutch master from the 17th century.
How accurate is this painting?
We don't know.
We honestly have a very limited idea of what the Hanging Gardens of Babylon looked like except that they were, you know, set a lot of terraces.
I think it was it was either seven or 10 terraces.
And it was set along the Euphrates River.
I particularly like the Tower of Babel in the background.
Yeah, I was going to say the Tower of Babel.
It's pretty good.
So, but these were so the Hanging Gardens of Babylon were constructed by Nebuchadnezzar II ruled between 605 and 562 BCE.
And this step masterpiece is said to be one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World.
Nebuchadnezzar built this garden as, you know, as a gift for his queen, Amitas, who was a Persian princess.
And he built it for her to help ease her homesickness for the mountains and the forests of Iran, where she came from.
So she's now moved from beautiful mountainous forested Iran and she's living in in Babylon, which is it's like this very flat, marshy kind of swampy place.
So it's no wonder she was homesick.
And he must have liked her a bit to build this this this beautiful lush garden for her.
But the point is that this is more what's in the mind of the Hebrew writer of this story is something like this.
This is the Garden of God.
It's mentioned elsewhere in the Bible, as I said, in Ezekiel 31 verses 8 to 9, a text that we date also to the 6th century.
There's a parable there of the nations and they're pictured as trees in God's garden and the greatest of the trees is the kingdom of Egypt poised for a fall.
Just read a little bit.
This is my translation of Ezekiel 31 verses 8 to 9.
No cedars rivaled its height in the Garden of God.
No fir trees matched its branches and no plain trees could compare with its beauty.
Every tree in the Garden of God envisioned, sorry, envied its splendor.
I adorned it with abundant foliage.
All the trees of Eden ate it.
Those in the Garden of God.
So the point here then is the garden does not represent virgin nature.
It's rather a picture of the ingenuity and the social cultural advances of people.
So we're going to one of the themes that I'm going to introduce to this story is the ways in which the story of Adam and Eve and the serpent are really in conversation
with a very popular, very old Aetheryster myth called the Epic of Gilgamesh.
And the Epic of Gilgamesh begins and ends in exactly the same way with Gilgamesh basically surveying his own city, the city of Aduk and marveling over the wonders of this place that he has built.
And in many ways, this story and also the stories that follow it through Genesis 4 through 11 are really being told in response to this urban ideal that appears in the Epic of Gilgamesh.
And as Gilgamesh himself exalted over his own city, Aduk, one league city, one league palm gardens, one league lowlands, the open area of the Ishtar temple, three leagues in the open area of Aduk and close it.
But in keeping with the prevalent theme that then follows in the Genesis narrative, we need to take a moment and reflect if the primeval story is one of anti urbanization, as I'm going to discuss that it is.
How does this affect our appraisal of God's garden? The triumph of urban planning.
So the idea here is that the right, I believe that the writer of this story is really invested in this idea that cities are bad, right?
That urbanization is actually bad as much as it's a reflection of human ingenuity and advancement of technology.
There's also this sense through a lot of this literature in the early parts of Genesis that we need to get away from that.
Yeah.
Because we get piled out of the gut, like Adam and Eve exiled from the gut.
Yeah, and it goes on from there. Cain is the first murderer. He's also the first to build a city.
The great cities of, well, then the next great city that's built is in Genesis chapter 10.
God is also an antagonistic character in Genesis.
And he builds the great cities of Uruk and Ninova and Ashur, I believe.
So he builds all these great cities and he's bad.
And then you have the story of the Torah Babel, which is all about the building of a great city and its abandonment.
And then finally, in Genesis chapter 12, you end up with Abraham.
And the first story of Abraham is of God appearing to him and telling him to get out of the city of Ur.
And he then spends the rest of his life wandering around in the wilderness, never attaching himself again to a city.
It goes on like, you know, Lot, his nephew, decides he wants to settle in the cities of the plains, Sodom and Gomorrah.
And we all know what happens to him.
So this idea of getting out of the cities is all, it's really built in to these narratives in, certainly in the early parts of the fucking Genesis.
I think it's intentional.
Okay, that's what I was going to ask.
You think, like, is this the, I guess, the meaning behind the literature?
Because I heard that's a big part of it.
It's a big part of it.
I think the first, I think it was like episode seven or something.
It was when I first had Dr. Josh on, he explained part of this theory and it's blown my mind.
Like, I want to read more about it because it makes so much more sense.
Like the whole story of the Garden of Eden, if taken at like the version of Christianity that I used to be a part of, it's like, so God creates this garden,
and he knows everything, but he doesn't know that man is going to sin for some reason.
And then man does sin, but like how, but God should have known that.
And then, and then like he kicks him out.
And then it's like another failure after another failure after another, like man still keeps, like, if God's all knowing, why does, why does he keep getting surprised by how, I guess, shitty?
By stuff, the way that stuff happens, yeah.
And I'm going to challenge you to try and shift your thinking away from ideas of sin in this story because it's not there.
This is an idea that we have incorporated into the story.
The word is literally not there.
Hang on.
I'll show you.
Okay.
Let's show me because eating the fruit, isn't that what's not like the best?
It's not sin.
No.
No, it's not.
And we, well, it's, it's complicated.
So I, and I mean, we probably won't, and maybe, you know, we probably won't get that.
Yes.
We'll see you, Jess.
But she's absolutely right.
It's not there.
Yeah.
You know, the story, the story, what's going on with the eating of the fruit.
This has everything to do with, with under, with, with this strange place that humans have come to occupy between, between being gods and, you know, being part of the rest of the natural world being, you know, different from the animals.
The way of explaining why we're so much like the gods, but not the gods.
So that it has everything.
It's all about, well, it's all about the way, the way that I titled this lecture, the way that I titled the chapter in my book that talks about Genesis two is knowledge and death.
It's really the story of, of the eating of the fruit from the tree of knowledge of good and evil is all about knowledge, immortality and sex.
It's all in there.
Nakedness is a big part of this.
So.
I'm sorry.
I'm hurting your brain.
So no, that's fine.
Okay.
My mind is going in a million different areas.
Can I, can I ask you, can I ask you before I forget because it's, it's something that's super made and look, answer this at your own peril.
If you don't want to answer this because it's going to take the conversation at a very different angle, then don't answer it.
But when someone mentioned very early on, Yahweh says, the man has become like one of us or made in our image.
What the hell does that mean?
Like, I can't know, but I want to hear you explain it.
Like, what does, what does it mean by made in our image?
Well, again, you're conflating two different stories here, right?
So that's Genesis one being made in God's image.
Let's, let's forget that for now.
So when man becomes like one of us, what, what God, what Yahweh says, man has become like one of us knowing evil.
We need to get him out of here now because if we don't, he's going to reach out and take hold of the tree of life and live forever.
So there's something.
But isn't that what?
And that's the other thing.
Okay.
That's something else too.
No.
The whole thing with Jesus.
Right.
No.
Sorry.
No, no, no.
It's and, and yeah, and these are, and this is how, how this, this literature changes, right?
Like there's a whole Christian layer, interpretive layer that's, that's, that's, um, you know, added to this where in, in which, you know, the garden.
Yeah.
The garden then is I'm actually going to suggest to you.
Um, and as far as I know, this is, this is me.
I don't know if there's other scholars who have really pushed this idea, but I'm going to suggest to you that getting out of the garden for the writer of this story is actually a pretty good thing.
Okay.
Okay.
It's not all bad.
It's not all bad.
Uh, I'll just, I'll just say that much at this point.
But part of, like a lot of this is, is tied up in the act of, of, um, you know, the, as we get, as, as we read through, we'll, we'll, we'll get to seeing this stuff more clearly, but there's a fixation in this story on, you know, these things.
Uh, nakedness, knowledge, immortality.
Uh, and these seem to be things that distinguish between what makes a human and what makes a God.
So taking and eating the fruit of the tree of knowledge and good and evil is a step towards becoming a God.
So it separates the people that separates the humans from their original intended creation.
It makes them basically unfit to continue to do what they were built to do because of this, they can no longer they'll intend the garden.
Um, but then there's a danger here because they're, they're, they're not, they're not what they were created to do.
They're no longer doing what they were created to do.
And now they're also halfway to becoming God's.
The next step to becoming God's is to take from the tree of life and to live forever, to have immortality.
So, uh, that's, that's where, uh, God says we have to get them out of the garden.
And we have to bar them from coming back in to take hold of the tree of life and live forever.
It's not good.
Okay.
Do you want to, we've been doing, we've been going for like an hour and a half.
Do you want to do a little bit more here and then just see.
I forgot to ask before we go, how far are we going?
Well, I'm my, I think I told you my wife is out of town.
So I'm, you know, I'm, I'm good to go until I pass out.
But well, uh, do we want to, we can jump into some question answers or we can.
Yeah, sure.
Is there a good spot to, to like continue on until we get to a.
Well, let's do, let's do this.
Let's go through, uh, Adam.
And we can talk about, about sex and the animals a little bit.
Um, and then, and then maybe we'll stop there.
And if this is something you want to, uh, uh, cause I, if you want to pick this up at another time, we could, we could come back and then talk about.
Yeah, okay.
The tree of knowledge.
If you've like, we've got a lot of viewers.
So let us know if you like this kind of content.
And of course the course is there for you to.
Do we, did you say we have a lot of viewers?
Sorry, I can't see anything.
We have 65.
Oh, nice.
Which is good.
Especially cause I haven't streamed for like a month.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Hey man, there's a lot of stuff going on.
But actually this would be probably a good, good time to, um, quickly just shout out.
Uh, let me just, let me just pull up.
We have some, some awesome guests coming up on deep drinks.
We have Ricky coming up in seven days talking about the trinity.
And I have no idea why everyone is so up in arms with the trinity.
And then I've only just recently learned about why they're up in arms with the trinity and
like why it's so important and why Michael Jones say, says that Mormons are true Christians
because they don't believe in the trinity.
And it's really interesting.
So he's going to do a deep.
Really?
Okay.
Yeah.
Then we have Anja Loven coming on who is this amazing person.
She rescues children accused of witchcraft.
Um, over in, um, Nigeria.
And the, so, so I interviewed her for the documentary that's in the background I've been working
on about the King James Bible in a witchcraft.
Uh, children as young as two, two years old, three years old, if they, uh, sick all the
time or they stay up all night or they throw tantrums, a Pentecostal preacher might say
that they are a witch and in which case they will be thrown into the street abandoned.
Um, tortured sometimes put through deliverance ministry, deliverance, um, sessions which
they're given poison to drink.
And if they survive, that's the demon.
That's like the demon diet.
Sometimes they're burnt alive.
They're thrown in pits and buried alive.
There's one pastor that was, if you look up which children, there's a documentary on
YouTube, but there's one pastors like I've killed a hundred children.
Like he's killed a hundred which children.
And it all comes from Pentecostal preachers over there.
And so she's over there.
She's saved like over 93, 93 children out of their care.
And she's coming on to tell their story and tell about how Pentecostal Christianity or
Christians in general, uh, um, spreading superstition and, uh, and stuff.
There's, there's a, there's a famous, a lot of research are done in this documentary,
but there's a famous preacher over there who wrote a book.
And literally one of the things that says in the book is, uh, to know if you have a
child or not is if the child, um, won't sleep through the night and throw his
tantrums.
That's, that's like, you might have a witch child, bring him to a preacher.
Uh, and then after that, we have history Valley coming on to talk about God's father.
So apparently it's, they read the Bible and they're like, wait a minute.
This verse kind of makes it look like God has a father.
So we're going to learn about that.
And that's going to be really interesting as well.
And of course, as, as I've said a bunch of times, um, go check out the course.
The course is amazing.
And Dr. Kip, you have a channel as well.
Do you want to shout out what you're currently doing on the channel?
Uh, lots of live streams lately because I've been, been focusing most of my,
my creative energies on, on getting this book finished.
So, but in the meantime, I've been doing, uh, I've been doing a bunch of,
a bunch of live streams.
Uh, I had a fun one yesterday where I, I reviewed a, uh, uh,
a region of, uh, academic fraud.
Um, where, uh, I guess I don't know if he's a famous Christian apologist,
but he's, he's, you know, he's a very visible, uh, Christian apologist.
Uh, who basically just, just self-pleasure MA thesis into his PhD.
Um, so I, I come with the receipts for that.
It was fun.
And it was my, um, it was my birthday yesterday.
So, uh,
that's, that leads us into a, it's one of the super chats from Lady.
Um,
thank you for the total super chat.
Appreciate it.
Thank you, Lady.
What's her?
She's one of my patrons.
Yeah.
I thought, I thought I recognized her actually.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I have, uh, I, I'm just thinking here in terms of, in terms of content.
Uh, Josh and I are, are going to be back, uh, reading Hebrew next week.
Josh and I, uh, do a bi-weekly Hebrew reading stream, uh,
every second Thursday at five o'clock.
Um, oh yeah.
There's one.
So I haven't actually checked it out.
I think I've only checked out.
I haven't checked out the parts where you're actually reading.
I've seen bits and pieces, but is it entertaining for people or is it just more
like, are you engaging with the audience or is it just like,
like, I don't even know.
No, I think we, I mean, there's a couple of your audience members here tonight
are, are in, uh, are in our streams regularly.
So maybe, maybe some of you guys in the audience can chime in on what the,
uh, what the Hebrew reading streams are like.
Uh, but I, I like to think they're, they're fairly interactive.
Um, they're designed for people who are already learning, uh, the languages.
So, but it's, it's, uh, it's fun.
We usually get about, uh, uh, we usually get about 40 people, uh,
watching.
I'm pretty happy about the fact that we get like 40 people, uh, coming out
to watch.
There we go.
He says she loves your streams.
So grammar nerds and language nerds unite.
Yeah.
It's, it's all that.
So, uh, yeah, it's, uh, it's fun.
And some people even just come in like, like, uh, like you, David,
like some people just come out to hang out and they're like,
I have no idea, you know, how to read anything in the, in the language,
but they just like to, to hang out and they chill.
So, uh, right now we're reading through, uh, through, we're reading
through, uh, we just started reading Jeremiah and, um, I'll,
I'll just share this with you.
If you don't know, uh, Jeremiah's first vision is so very first vision
is, is seeing an almond branch.
Uh, y'all always says to him, Jeremiah, what do you see?
And, and, uh, Jeremiah says, I see an almond branch.
And then, uh, Yahweh says you've, you've seen well.
And then, uh, and then does a play on words with, with the word almond
and, and says, um, uh, like, you know, my word is going to be fulfilled.
Uh, but it's so funny the way it's word.
It's just, it's literally like, you can tell this was Jeremiah's
first, first try at prophecy because he's like, I saw an almond branch.
Look, there's an almond branch on this tree, on this almond tree.
And it means that God is going to make sure that what he tells you
next time is going to come true.
So, uh, so Josh and I have actually just, you know, we've started,
uh, running around and, and just saying to each other when something's
super obvious, as sure as that's an almond branch, you know,
that's so good.
But it's fun.
It's fun.
So yeah, it's, it's a fun stream.
So, and I'll have, I'll have some more stuff to come.
And then of course Diablo critics will be back in the second weekend on me.
So.
Oh, wow.
Okay.
Well, let's, let's continue on with the last part of the lecture and then we'll
let's do, let's talk about Adam, uh, the herdsman.
So we notice after God has planted the garden, uh, and he says it's no good
that, uh, the man is alone.
Uh, and actually I think this is, uh, this is one of these, these elements
within the just one creation story, which strongly suggests that it's in
some ways responding to this story.
Cause there's two times in this story.
I know good for who I see that heathen queen.
Um, I, there, there's, there's two times in this story where,
where Yahweh says it's not good.
Uh, what does he say over and over and over and over again in Genesis one
David over and over again.
He says, uh, he, uh, it says that he makes something and then it says it was
evening and morning, the third day and it was good over and over again.
Over and over and over.
It was good.
This is, this seems obviously in response to, uh,
I'm taking this as a compliment to the stream.
Yes.
Obviously that's exactly what she was getting out.
So, uh, right.
So the Adam, the man is given Yahweh God plants the garden and then he says
it's not good that the man is alone.
The Adam is alone.
So he, he, the Adam is given birds and animals of the field for
companionship or for help.
Uh, I mentioned this already.
It seems a little weird, uh, this story in which both Yahweh and the man
are together that he's unsuited for like companionship in a sexual sense
with these creatures.
Um, it's, it's applied.
It's never explicitly stated, but it's there within, uh, within the story.
But there's a lot more to this story than that.
Uh, in, in Genesis two 18, uh, Yahweh says it's not good that the Adam is
alone.
I will provide for him help.
Literally it says like his opposite.
The realization is made here that the Adam and the animals are incompatible.
Like they don't, they don't fit.
Right.
Uh, but the purpose for making the animals in the first place was because the
Adam needed help.
What's his job?
Do you remember what, what, what the Adam's supposed to be doing?
What's, what, what, what God made him for, uh, in this story?
Till and to 10.
Yep.
Looking after the garden.
Uh, so, um, Yahweh at once recognizes that the Adam's station, his place in
this place, he's unable to undertake the task of working and keeping the garden
with satisfaction.
There's something missing here.
It seems to be too much for him.
So the root of the word helped, uh, that we translate help.
It's Ezra.
Uh, it seems to have meant strength.
The Euguritic equivalent, Euguritic is a, is a cognate language.
Uh, that's very similar to Hebrew is translated as warrior or hero.
And I think this precepts, this, this provides some insight into what Yahweh
believes the man needs.
He needs muscle.
So what does Yahweh do?
It says that Yahweh God shaped from the ground all the animals of the field and
every bird of the sky.
And he brought them to the Adam to see what he would call each one.
And what Adam called each living creature was its name.
The Adam called out the names, every livestock and bird of the sky and every
wild animal as for the adult and help like his opposite.
So importantly, one thing I want you to note here, what's next?
Uh, yeah.
Okay.
They're provided for the task of, of helping him, uh, garden.
So the first thing I want you to notice here, this really important is that
Yahweh shapes from the ground and indistinguishable menagerie of land animals
and brings them to the Adam.
Now, I think this is significant because he's doing, he's, he's basically
repeating the pattern of making the Adam of making the man.
He made the man out of the dirt, right?
Of the ground.
So he's just repeating the same process.
The animals are made and the birds are made out of the dirt of the ground.
And then it says he brings them to the Adam to see what he would call each one.
Uh, a similar sort of thing happening here is, is what, what happens in the first, uh,
creation story in Genesis one where there's a real strong focus on compartmentalizing
the animals according to their function as part of creation.
However, this time, instead of God making these decisions by Fiat, instead of just
speaking this into existence, he brings this indistinguishable group of animals
and birds to the man.
Uh, and he is tasked with discovering just what it is exactly that these creatures do.
So, um, now the naming here is important.
Names in antiquity were thought to reflect your function.
Like your name was thought to, to project something about yourself that was meaningful
to, you know, your, your, your persona, your existence, what you do.
Not always meaningful.
Wasn't someone called Harry?
Cause he was Harry and someone was called heal grower cause he grabbed the heal.
Yeah, but that's, but that's very meaningful.
What are you talking about?
How is that meaningful?
Very meaningful.
It's very meaningful.
Uh, by the way, uh, so yeah, Jacob, Jacob, the heal, the heal grower also means trickster.
So, yeah.
And, and I would say this is, this is more of a virtuous, we tend to think of it as shady
and sneaky.
But I think there, there's a, there's a strong sense again, playing into this sort of anti-urban
polemic where all the people who are in charge are in the cities, right?
There's, there's a, there's a sense of, uh, of satisfaction that people get from the trickster
who bests, you know, the, uh, who bests the powerful and bests those who are in control.
I think this plays into, uh, some of the Jacob stories.
Um, yeah.
So animal really working hard to try and free Jesus into all this, you know, that's my,
my God.
I, I, I can see that.
So, uh, so this, but this is the case with the animals too.
By naming the animals, the Adam is effectively identifying their own specific tasks in existence.
So once named, the land animals are then classified according to domestic versus non-domestic
purpose.
And you'll actually notice there's a very subtle change in which the ways the animals,
the land animals are described prior to when Adam names them and afterwards.
So when it says that God brings all the animals, literally the living creatures of the field
to Adam and then after he names them, it says that Adam named all the livestock basically.
So these are, you know, this is, this is all about, you know, separating those useful animals, beasts of
burden and, and, uh, uh, you know, animals that, that are, are, are used in, in the economy and in working
the land and for food and those things from all those useless animals.
Uh, there was a lot of animals that, that just didn't seem, you know, for, for the, the readers and the writers
of the Hebrew Bible, there were a lot of animals who just their function within the created order eluded them.
Like what on earth do you do with lizards?
Why are they even there kind of thing or insects or, uh, and a lot of this plays into much later the ways in which,
in which animals get, get classified as clean or unclean and useful, you know, in terms of, of their, their suitability
for, for sacrifice.
Um, so this is all tied into this idea, right?
That certain animals are useful and we domesticate them and some just aren't, you know, we stay away from them.
Do you have an idea, idea of why pig was, um, swine was forbidden?
So I actually do.
Uh, I think now one of the things about, uh, I don't know if you know anything about pigs.
Um, but, uh, one of the things about pigs is quite interesting is that, um, they're unlike cattle.
Um, and goats, uh, they do not require a lot of space to keep and to breed.
So you can keep them in, in the enclosed places.
And for that reason, uh, pigs were very popular in cities in, in antiquity.
We see this, we see this certainly in, uh, in Canaan, in the Canaanites and in, especially in, in the Philistine cities.
Uh, they, they kept pigs.
Um, but you see it pretty, pretty prevalently in like the Roman Empire.
Um, pigs in the city all over the place.
I think this also plays into this, this urban, anti-urban, uh, polymic.
This is where I think it starts.
Uh, as people are, are, you know, taking them out of the cities and separating themselves from the cities.
And they're drawing, they're drawing this, this sharp line of distinction between us outside of the cities and them in the cities.
I think this plays into it.
Where, uh, pigs become for potent, but not, not necessarily because, uh, you know, because there's anything inherently gross or dirty about them.
It's just that, that's what all those guys in the cities do.
So we're going to stop doing that.
Hmm.
So, uh, at least that's, that's what I think about it.
Simone said, I think that's right.
It's in the article again of learning.
Thank you, Simone.
Yeah.
What does that mean?
Can you explain what that means?
Uh, I, I'm not, I'm not an entire, I, I, there's, it would that be the Oracle and Jeremiah against back?
I'm asking Simone.
I'm, I'm, I expect that's what she's talking about.
I'd have to look it up again.
But, um, uh, yeah.
So I, I, I'm interested in that now too, actually going and, uh, checking that out.
But, uh, but I think that's, that's a lot of what's going on there.
At least where it came from.
And the way these things tend to work themselves out is they develop into, uh, rituals.
Right.
Like rituals, um, become, uh, they, they basically become infused with special.
There are actions that originally have some sort of pragmatic practical purpose that
become infused with like special meeting.
Uh, this is what we see.
We actually see developing.
Um, and I talk a little bit about this in the second lecture.
Uh, yeah, the, or which would be, yeah, lecture, lecture 1.2, which is actually the third lecture.
Um, uh, so, but, but in, in, in that one, sorry, I, uh, I talk about the calendar.
Uh, and you can actually see this developing through the texts of the Bible where the
calendar, the festivals to take on new meanings over time.
Uh, and a careful reader can see like at one point in time, uh, something like, uh, like
Sukkot, the, uh, the festival of booze or in gathering was actually just like a late harvest
festival.
It was like the, the end of the, the growing season festival.
Um, but eventually over time it came to, it, it, it do meaning develop for it where,
you know, this is now all about the time we're in the wilderness and you had to live in these
little huts out in, in the wilderness.
And so because of that, we're going to, to, uh, make this annual, uh, celebration.
So it's, you know, and you can see this helping right through the texts.
Like it's, it's right in there, uh, which I think is so cool.
We have multiple places where the festivals take on, uh, different.
Yeah.
It's super interesting looking at the texts in like chronological order to me.
I'm, I'm doing a, um, a video, uh, on apologetics, um, apologetics biggest problem.
And I, in fact, I'll, uh, hang on a second.
I'll show this is a little animation I've put together.
Oh, there he is.
Do not believe.
And, uh, for false messiahs and false prophets.
It's available.
And I'll mute it.
Oh, it's available for patrons to check out at the moment in like the rough assembly, assembly
cut, but I took, took ages to animate this and like in stuff.
But, but what's super interesting is I looked at it's about the second.
There's one part that's about the second coming of Jesus.
Right.
And what I know, what I wanted to do is I wanted to look at all the references outside of the
gospels that talk about, get like, just imagine, let's just attribute the words to Jesus.
That Jesus says, I'm coming back soon.
This generation will not pass away.
And then let's look at like all the references outside of the gospels and like in chronological
order.
And I tried to do that.
And it's, it's interesting because it, it sees, there's a trend and the trend is like,
well, it's going to happen soon.
And then it's like, it's even closer now than it was at the start.
And then all of a sudden, like right at the end into Peter, it's like, it's like, you
know, in the last day of scoffers will rise up and they'll, you know, they're like, it's
like encouraging an audience of people who have, who have had people like saying, where's
Jesus?
Why hasn't he returned yet?
And then the very end, like revelations, it's like, it's like, come soon.
Jesus comes.
Yes.
Yes.
He's coming soon.
Yes.
It's like a denial of like, it's just like, I'm just going to throw my hands in the air
and yes, coming soon.
And it's super interesting when you put it on in chronological order that you can kind
of,
You can track it, right?
You can track changes.
Not bad.
Yeah.
And you can understand them.
But it's just these trends that you kind of see between the lines and maybe it's not
best methodology or whatever, but I'm not an expert so I can get away with being dumb.
But like, you know, it's just interesting.
I was like, wow, this is really, really interesting to see where the church is going.
Anyway,
I just think you're obsessed with Jesus.
Sorry.
Sorry.
As revelation, revelations as someone pointed out.
Sorry.
Correct.
So, um, okay, keep going.
All right.
Yeah.
We'll do a little bit more here.
And then, um, yeah.
So,
Importantly, let's maybe bring the slides back up.
Uh,
Naming.
It's very, very, very important.
Naming constitutes a function.
Okay.
Uh,
This act on its own,
Indicates utility of decision to make a helper in the first place that Adam's first order
of business is to identify and distinguish the useful animals from those which were not.
Um,
Now there's one other important, uh,
regard in the mention of naming in Genesis to 19.
Whatever the Adam called each living creature that was its name.
In addition to identifying function,
Uh,
To name is to take ownership.
So,
This is parallel to God's act of naming all the elements of creation in Genesis one.
I mean,
That's all part of the entire process of him speaking things into existence.
They become what they are because he's called them that.
Right.
Um,
But this is a,
This is a,
An assertion of ownership.
So,
The Adam asserts his dominion and his ownership of all the animals and the birds.
So,
And this is,
This is part of what's playing out in the in the grander biblical narrative as well.
Um,
Naming is an exertion of control and this is,
This is important too.
Uh, as we,
We come to look at the relationship between the man and the woman in the in the story.
Uh, he not only names the woman, he names her twice.
Um,
But we also need to under like,
We need to understand what's going on.
Excuse me.
What's going on here?
Right.
This is about the exertion of control.
Um,
There's a famously,
The,
The fourth commandment.
I think it's the fourth commandment.
It's either the third or the fourth commandment of the 10 words of the 10.
Uh,
Is you probably know it as you,
You shall not take the name of the Lord in vain.
Uh,
We tend to think of that as like an injunction against swearing.
Right.
Uh,
That's not what that's about.
Uh,
This is about Yahweh protecting his own name.
Because the making use of a name or naming something is exercise power and control over,
Over that thing.
And this is how,
This is how,
How people imagined the interaction between,
You know,
The divine and the human realm.
You invoked the name of a God in order to get them to do something that you want them to do.
So when Yahweh says you should take up the name of Yahweh, your God unnecessarily,
This is what he's getting at.
He's saying,
Don't try to control me or don't invoke my name without a good reason.
Because,
Oh, we don't play that.
So it's,
Uh,
It's,
It's,
Yeah,
It's important naming constitute function and it's an assertion of ownership.
Um,
Yeah,
Exodus 20 verse seven.
So,
And,
Yeah,
And then,
And then all the fun stuff happens with,
With the sex.
So,
Um,
But,
I don't know how much,
How much time do we have should,
Let's,
Let's get onto some super chats and just do that and take your whole,
Whole night,
But,
It's,
It's super,
It's super interesting.
And again,
Course is amazing.
Go check out the course if you want to deep dive into all of this,
But we've got to have you back to,
Have a limit on the content that you can bring to this channel.
So whenever you,
You want to come back,
We'll have you on,
Of course.
And,
Yeah,
I want to,
I do want to come back and finish this because,
Because it's,
I mean, this is,
This is the,
The funnest stuff is,
Is definitely what happens,
You know,
In chapter three of Genesis,
But,
Okay.
All right.
Let's do it then.
It's like a time right after this and I'll get it in the,
I'll get it in the calendar.
I mean,
We're still trying,
We're still trying to get through that bloody,
Apologist book as well.
That,
Oh,
Oh,
Oh, God.
I need to kind of like,
Little,
Like sub playlists for,
So people can be like,
Okay, where are we at?
Because it's like months and,
Well,
So we have a $10 super chat from,
Hang for She.
Thanks so much.
Do you think that there is a sense here that these four rivers could somehow be symbolic of the two main arteries and two main veins?
In other words,
Yeah,
Interesting.
Blood vessels.
Tiamat,
Tiamat's blood vessels.
Yeah,
I hadn't,
I hadn't thought about that before.
That,
That's an interesting thought.
I have to go back and look at this.
So he's,
Hang for She is talking about,
About what's going on in,
Neonuma,
Elish.
So I'm going to want to go back and,
And take a look at that.
But that's,
That's an interesting thought.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah,
I have to,
It's,
It's not as far as,
Jordan Pearson goes when he says that,
What is it,
Like the Mayans were like,
Talking about DNA or something,
Like the helix and,
I don't know,
Wild stuff.
Of course,
We're having a little birthday with,
We did that.
We can,
We can wish me a happy birthday again.
Yay,
Needy.
Okay.
So,
I don't know what Needy was going on about here.
I know what he's getting on.
So,
This is,
This is this guy from the,
That we profiled in the,
In the Diablo critics episode.
Um,
Just David do this.
Just,
Uh,
Just,
Uh,
Do like,
Like a Google image search for,
For,
J.
Johnston.
And,
Jeremiah J.
Johnston,
J-O-H-N,
S-T-O-N,
I guess I could do it.
Maybe I should do it.
I'll,
Cause I,
Oh yeah, no, no.
Okay.
Yeah.
I've got,
I've got it.
Um,
Bring it up.
And,
And you'll see exactly what Needy's getting at.
Uh,
So,
Uh,
Yeah,
It's like,
So,
Guy Fier,
So,
Guy Fier,
So,
So,
Guy Fier,
So,
So he did,
Oh,
Oh, yes,
That's,
Um,
Go to,
Go to Capturing Christianity's,
Uh,
Channel,
On YouTube.
Okay.
And,
And he's got like,
Uh,
I think that's where it's either there or on Twitter.
Um,
Check his,
His channel.
I'm going to check Twitter.
Okay.
This is,
Uh,
Needy has a link handy and he can,
He can throw it in,
Uh,
Uh,
I'm on,
Uh,
But,
Capturing Christianity's channel.
He,
He threw something in the chat.
Uh,
Uh,
Needy did.
You see that?
Uh,
Uh,
Oh my gosh,
I'm going to have to,
Oh,
Here we go.
Here we go.
Here we go.
Got it.
Okay.
There it is.
So,
Why are you,
That's amazing.
So,
I'm so,
I'm so mature.
What,
Why are you talking before?
I actually threw that into chat.
GPT is like,
AI prompt.
And I got this.
So,
That's the,
That's the,
Cause he's an AI prompt.
So I was like,
Okay.
All right.
Oh,
Oh,
Oh,
Oh,
Okay.
I have to,
Uh,
Vishanti,
Uh,
I have to show this now.
Um,
Oh,
I have to,
I can find.
Shoot.
Where the hell is it?
Um,
It's on,
It's on discord,
But,
Uh,
Uh,
Just give me a second to pull this up.
Vishanti made was,
Uh,
Was so inspired by my,
Uh,
My story.
Uh,
Oh,
Oh,
Oh,
Oh,
I had to,
Oh,
I had to,
Uh,
I had to,
Uh,
I had to,
Uh,
Show this.
So I was trying my,
Uh,
My stream yesterday that she made,
She made a meme that,
Uh,
That was,
That was very funny.
Um,
So,
If I'm going to try and pull this up here and,
Okay.
Show everyone.
Uh,
Oh,
Oh,
Oh,
Oh,
Oh,
Okay.
I got a,
Oh, well, um, well, uh, sorry, that was, that was a child.
I'm a child.
No, it's, it's, oh my, just, just, uh, just, she's, she's, she's, she's, she's getting
queen.
Don't keep that.
Oh, stream peers.
Who David Jesus doesn't even go here.
I love the mean girls reference, which by the way, I'm a, I'm still fan of the original.
I think the original was better than the remake.
Oh, have you seen the remake?
I haven't even seen the remake.
Is it any good?
It's, it's, it's all right.
It's just not like the original was such classic.
I feel like so good.
I'm like the original.
original you need the context of the original to enjoy the second because you don't have the context
is kind of like the drugstone end but it's good it's good okay well um everyone thanks for coming
out to take drinks uh i was going to say though because you you uh bring bring um bring heathen
queen super chat back up because she she said uh she said let's do a live sometime so yeah let's do
that uh if if you uh if you have time between uh between classes between studying between
your head exploding uh yeah that could be fun i love that she she said before that she's supposed
to be doing homework but she's um she's doing this instead i should be doing how i'm gonna
say i'm doing the cocktail and kind of shit posting on this live and that is amazing and we
appreciate it it is i want to um and now i know she's she's she's going to go back and uh and and
tell jeffery stackard all about all about what a country what a what a couple of dumb asses we are
so that'll be fun well let me just say this like it is not lost to me how um how how like great
i'm incredibly grateful to have you on kip and be able to have you on so many times because
like you're teaching university classes essentially for free on on uh deep drinks and that's like
amazing and i really appreciate you taking the time it really does like when i was doing the
course actually not even know when i was doing the course that's one thing but when i started
reading the chapters that you sent me from your book i was like oh god damn this he can actually
really write like this is really well thank you i can understand it and it's complex subjects so
really you know thank you so much for coming on the channel and thank you everyone for
coming out to support the channel and go subscribe to kip's channel of course as well yeah
we have we have a bit of uh something new here that i've been promising for a while
but i also want to thank the archbishops of deep drinks so let me oh yes let's see it this is the
cool this is the cool meme so archbishops and deep drinks have been supporting this channel and
i want to say thank you to the archbishops which is jason rollins matthew monger digital
hamaravi and skepticism scandals eric thank you guys so much for supporting this channel
and yeah just being being cool badasses that you are and with that said i could bring this back
and we'll see everyone next week for the trinity episode with see you guys dad pool
so
You
