Is Christianity a cult of the dead?
Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks podcast with the drinks are deep and the conversations are deeper today my guest is Kyle Smith who is an associate professor and director of the history of religions program in the department of historical historical studies at the University of Toronto.
His undergraduate teachings include courses in modern in the ancient world women and gender and early in early and medieval Christianity.
And the religious and cultural history of Christmas, which is pretty interesting. His most recent book.
Cult of the dead.
Let's go focus there.
A brief history of Christianity was published by the University California Press in November of 2022 written for general audiences called to the dead ranges from Roman antiquity to medieval England through the Protestant Reformation and up to the present to tell the story of how the world's most widespread religion is steeped in the memory of its martyrs.
I'm very excited for this episode. I'd like to welcome Kyle Smith. Thank you for coming on.
Thank you, David. I'm thrilled to be here. I've had the opportunity to listen to your podcast many times and it's a bit weird to be actually on it now.
Thanks for having me.
You did. You did. Actually, there was one episode I think I was on talking to Derek and we for some reason were bringing up and you replied to my message and you said, Oh, I'd love to come on.
I don't know. I'll be as I'll be talking about four skins as much as you and Derek did, but I'm happy to do it. And so I was like, we're going to get on great.
Yeah, it's a deep drinks is a wild and wacky place, but it's it's it's awesome to be able to dive into the into the history and scholarship and mythology of different religions, especially Christianity.
We have a lot of guys who have come out to say hello. So thanks everyone for coming out. Super excited for this interview. Before we get started. Yeah, we have a very interesting drink.
And let me just before we before I do too much of a deep dive, I want to read out. So I actually sent you a message and I said on Twitter because I couldn't find your email and I was like, I'd really love to, you know, have you on and blah, blah, blah.
And you responded. Hi, David. I hope you like Miss Cal. So is it Miss Cal? Am I pronouncing it right?
That's like sure. That sounds good. Yeah.
Yeah, cool. Hi, David. I hope you like Miss Cal. And I was like, yes. So it's tequila essentially right. So yeah, what are we drinking?
Well, I've got this is a while. See if you can see that. There's my camera. There it is. Seven mysteries. So it's an agave based liquor, Miss Cal is from Oaxaca, the state of Oaxaca in in Mexico.
And would you want to hear why we're drinking it?
Yeah, I'd like to because so I'm a vegetarian.
And this is probably the first time I'm eating some something something along the lines that I guess, well, it's not a vegetable, right? It's worm salts.
Yeah, I mean, so we have drinks and dinner.
And we've got some orange slices with a little salt, which is there you go.
So it's ground up chilies, salt, and then deep fried and ground up worm larvae.
And I'm really sorry. I mean, first of all, there should be a vegan trigger warning for the podcast.
And there's tons of trigger warnings for the actual conversation we're here talking about.
I mean, you know, martyrs and dismemberment and gruesome means of death. So I don't know if somebody really needed to hear that.
But if they didn't already gather that from the title of the book, you know, maybe this is a time to check out.
So why are we drinking this? So it's a nod to the day of the dead traditions, which are celebrated most conspicuously, most beautifully in Mexico, but especially in the state of Oaxaca.
So day of the dead, the day after all Saints Day, sometimes better known to non or to Westerners rather as all souls day.
And this this feast in Mexico typically involves the creation of family altars, you know, to people who have died in their family.
You put sweets on there, you put maybe a little tequila or a moscow, you put some of their some bread, you put some other food.
You also have beautiful bright orange marigolds is a way of kind of lighting the way of the soul of the dead, your dead relative back to your home altar.
And an often a photograph to almost typically a photograph of your deceased relative.
And so so much of this book is about the memory of the dead, but also the ever presence of the dead in the land of the living, you know, the sort of bridge between the land of the living and the land of the dead, which was did you see that Disney film that was the Pixar film Coco from five or six years ago.
I didn't. I didn't I'm saving on my Disney we just had a little baby boy atlas. So I'm saving my Disney for when he gets up to the age that I, I have to endure it so my wife loves Disney I'm not a huge fan but yeah.
Right, throwing a pop cultural reference out there but in any case the point is, we're trying to invoke here the importance of memory.
The idea that the dead aren't dead that the land of the living in the land of the dead or somehow interpenetrable.
And as I said, we also have this, we also have this meat here in our in our warm salt.
And we might get into discussions about sacrifice and meat eating in the Roman Empire and having to do with Christian martyrdom stories, perhaps at some point.
Because as my father in law likes to say a long walk for a ham sandwich by way of by way of explanation as to what we're drinking so here we go.
That's that's great. So, so my first question is I've got so I've got I've rarely ever sipped to killer.
Yeah.
So it is we just take a sip and then a bite of the yeah just a we sip and then some of your your orange.
It's not bad. Yeah, the chili. I mean, you don't really taste worms. I don't know what worms taste like but you get that umami umami flavor.
There we go.
Yeah.
Yeah, nice.
I haven't got any my beard.
But I can see you.
Awesome.
So it's it's it's really fascinating that the whole culture and just to just to before we dive into your book the I recently I wore this shirt purposely.
It's it's meant to be Buddha sitting on his lotus leaf that kind of referencing the aesthetic the aesthetic part of his life.
It's like artsy rap.
But I wore that on a show once with Michael Granada and Michael Granada had a tattoo of Saint the Saint death of in in Mexico.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Santa Marta. Yeah.
And I was like what is I had no idea what it was I ended up doing a bunch of research I got a I got a beautiful hand hand like an art print of her and so my wall amazing I didn't I didn't know anything about that but some and of course I don't know if your book goes into this at the end or anything or it goes into her at all but doesn't
Well it's funny that you bring that up because I was actually planning when I was when I was writing this book I was planning a trip to La Haca for the day of the dead in November of 2020 as a way of making that kind of the the coda of the book the final chapter.
And then of course COVID happened and getting out of Canada six months after COVID began wasn't going to be possible.
So that chapter kind of got cut, which is fine because I probably wasn't the right person to write it anyway in that I don't speak Spanish.
I don't really have much of a grasp of contemporary Mexican Christianity.
However, of course, it's a perfect fit.
Yeah.
And would have been maybe that's the maybe that's some next project but but a lot of that is already written there's there's a lot of really great literature already out there on Santa Muerte where you have a saint in the personification of death herself who hopefully for those well for those who
who venerate her for those who bring her offerings that there will be this reciprocal relationship and she will bring you a good death one that is that's that's how she's also often known right as the saint of the good death Holy death.
And, and all this is extremely well to me I grew up in a Pentecostal church and this would have all been seen as demonic of the devil etc etc.
So it's but it's fascinating to see the branches of Christianity and where Christianity kind of goes with its beliefs is wild and varied and amazing and kind of awesome.
So, I can't wait to get into the subject of your book but first of all I need to ask you, is Christianity a cult of a dead.
And what is your book about.
Yes, well there we go.
I would say a definitive yes to that right. And, I mean, what do I, what do I mean by that. First of all, let's interrogate that word cult. Okay.
I know that our minds, you know, go go straight to the Jim Joneses and David Koresh's of the world and you know you're thinking of all sinister things when you when you hear that word cult.
You know, obviously, if I had entitled my book something different, it might not have caught your eye. Right. So, yeah, it's there to sell some books but but it's also a useful and a correct term.
When you're talking about as, as any scholar of late antiquity or, or the Middle Ages would talk about the cult of the saints, which is really what this book is about.
Again, with this word cult, think of the word agriculture. Right. It means care for the fields. Think about the word culture. It means all of the thing of the cuisines the arts the music the literature that are particular people care
most about you think you mentioned your, you know, your child right when he Atlas right. You know, when he's getting older, perhaps you play an instrument and if you wanted to if you're wanting to cultivate.
There's that word again, a love of music, you know, in him you buy him an instrument and you, you know, played your favorite songs for him, etc.
So the word fundamentally means care to nurture. Okay. So the cult of the dead is the Christian care for the dead. And what this book is about is all of the material, literary, ritual, architectural, chronological practices,
you're talking about a day on a calendar, a sermon preached in honor of that saint, a shrine, we're talking mostly about murders here, you know, a shrine, a relic, right, an actual physical remain of either a bone of that saint or something that that saint touched.
So all of these practices that deeply informed all of these cultural practices that deeply informed what Christianity was in late antiquity, and the Middle Ages, all of these ways in which Christians cared for, as Peter Brown once put it, their holy debt, they're very special debt.
Right. Who are the most.
Yeah.
Well, yeah, it's, it's, it's super interesting. So you have a fascinating story about how this all kind of came about, and it kind of goes into the first martyr I'd like to talk about, and we'll kind of jump around a little bit with the, with the questions that I've written out and sent you but one of the first, the first martyrs that you write about well the first
martyr is album, right. Yeah, that kind of goes into how you started this book, could you tell that story.
Sure. So I live it as you said I teach at the University of Toronto, I live right in downtown Toronto. And there's a, there's a small park called San Albin Square that I used to walk my kids through every single morning with our dog, when I would drop them off at school.
And, you know, I, you know, I study I've been studying martyrs and studying early Christianity for years, and I've heard of Saint Albin, but I couldn't tell you anything about him. And I think most people probably couldn't he's not exactly a very well known saint.
And, you know, I started to wonder I said, you know, first of all, I got to look him up who is he what was his story.
And the quick version of the story about him which gets recorded in the venerable monk beads ecclesiastical history of the English people and from the eighth century is that Albin.
It seems there seems to have been some sort of persecution in Rome and Britain and maybe the third century, not exactly clear when Albin wasn't a Christian, but one day there's this priest who's fleeing the Roman soldiers who are after him.
Again, not really super historical here because it's not like the Roman soldiers or had much of an interest in hunting down Christians. But according to the story, the priest kind of comes to his door, Albin lets him in to protect him to harbor him.
Saint Albin also, by the way, patron saint of refugee refugees. So he's harboring him in his house, and he's watching him, this priest, as he performs his prayers. And so then Albin decides that he too will become a Christian.
And of course, shortly enough, the Roman soldiers catch up, he gets ratted out. Yeah, they knock on his door. And we got images of Albin coming up here.
Okay, yeah, bring them up. Yeah. There's a great one from there you go top left from Saint Matthew of Paris, or sorry, Matthew of Paris, not Saint Matthew of Paris.
That's similar to the one but in any case that I'll tell you the rest of the story. No, you look look underneath there, the main one that you had brought up, I'll show you his bed in here. So look scroll down underneath. Yeah, it's the middle one underneath the main image, no to the right.
Yeah, no. Well, click on the one at the top left. Yeah, sorry. Yeah, that's okay. Now underneath there, there was an image of his bedding. Yeah. That's it. That's it. Yeah. Yeah.
Interesting.
Okay, so he what happens is is that he, the Roman soldier show up, and he says he thinks very fast, and he switches his clothes for those of the priest and announces himself to the soldiers right as the priest well, the gig quickly gets up.
But under interrogation, Albin still insists that he's a Christian, and even though he knows that he's going to be beheaded. And so as he's being led by the executioner to the to the place of execution where he's going to have his head chopped off.
There's a big crowd over the bridge. So they can't get there. He prays that the water will dry up. And of course the executioner is now astounded because this guy just made a river dry up. And he drops his sword, and they got to go find a second executioner and eventually both Albin and the first executioner get
killed. And it's a, it's a bizarre story. You just had the image there of him, the manuscript image I think from the 13th century of of him being beheaded. But what it demonstrates and, you know, my kids know this story inside and out so what, where's that going to leave them and however many years.
Yeah, but what it demonstrates is the something that I think is is is not something that most people think about or are aware of, which is the zeal for death that seems to happen or seems to occur in a lot of these Mario stories.
There are not these many of these stories don't tell the narrative of a Christian who is hiding from death or who is fleeing from it or who is going to it unwillingly.
They're either unperturbed, just unperturbed, or happy to get to the place of execution in some instances. So, so that I tell that story in the first chapter of the book, by way of both indicating how ever present these stories are, but also how these saints surround us in our daily lives in ways that we just just simply
recognize that we're just blithely unaware of right. And there's a sign, there's a sign that says San Alvin Square, but how many people who walk through that, that square had any sort of idea about what the story of San Alvin was right.
And I've often thought that, you know, if the city of Toronto that's, you know, putting up their, their municipal sign, if they had that image that you were trying to find of Alvin being beheaded that maybe we might think a little bit differently about these saints that surround us in so many different
ways, you know, with the streets and the schools and the subway stops all named for so many martyrs in so many cities throughout the world.
It's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's super interesting to me that you say somewhere, and let me just find my notes you say, or it's mentioned in the book I don't know if it's I've written down your quote or quote but sanctity was to be found in following Jesus down just such a
tapered path. So like, following Jesus to death, you know, like, you know, happy to be to be martyred. I find that style of Christianity to be
very interesting, like very, like, I don't like my, I don't like people dying, but it's so going to be careful how I word it or, you know, there's, you know, it's, you know, there's other religions that, you know, they die for their faith, but, but like, it's something about
sorry to interrupt you, but yeah, that's kind of how it started with Christianity, right? Yeah, okay. Yeah, yeah, like, like, like Jesus, literally, yeah, died on the cross like he was a martyr for Christianity. But like, so something I wanted to kind of touch on and I mentioned this in the book tour that we did in this.
So this this you touch on St Ignatius of Antioch in your book. That's right, you do, don't you?
I have been blasting through this book. I'm going to actually there's not many times this book sorry. There's not many times I know I'm going to have to go back and read a book because it's just so dense. It's thick. It is thick, but it's dense.
There's not much fluff. It is. It's fascinating. I'm going to go back through it. It's amazing. But so St Ignatius of Antioch, he's like traveling to Rome to be executed by lions or beasts or something. And he's writing to his fellow Christian pals, I guess, part of the congregation.
And he says, I write to the churches and impress on on them all that that I shall willingly die for God, unless you hinder me, I perceive you of you not to show an unreasonable goodwill towards me suffer me to become food for the wild beasts through whose instruction,
Instruct mentality. So my gosh, sorry, is it will be granted me to attain to God. I am the wheat of God and let me be ground by the teeth of the wild beasts, and may that I may be found the pure bread of Christ, rather entice the wild beasts that they may become my tomb, and may leave nothing of my body so that when I have fallen asleep in death, I may be no no longer a trouble to anyone.
Then shall I truly be a disciple of Christ when the world shall not not see so much as my body. And it's like, he's like, then I will be a disciple, you know, like I'm going to my death for Christianity. And after I've been consumed by these lions being ground by the teeth of these lines, then I'll be truly a disciple of Jesus.
And that's, that's wild to me. That is someone who believes in their cause.
It's astounding, isn't it? I mean, you know, that he's saying there, don't do me a disservice. You know, don't get in the way of me being killed. Allow me, as you read from the letter to the Romans there, Ignatius' letter to the Romans, we're not talking Paul here.
Ignatius' letter to the Romans, allow me to be, you know, ground in the, like, like grist in the middle of martyrdom so that I can be baked into Christ's pure bread, right?
It's an astounding passage that echoes what I was saying about St. Alpin, that it's not people who are unwilling.
I mean, look, it's, it's a bit over the top with Ignatius. You don't have that sort of get out of the way, here I come, throw me to the beasts with a whole lot of sources.
But it's illustrative of the point that for Ignatius especially, he specifically, what he specifically says in that letter is that this is what it means to be a true disciple, is to willingly go to death rather than renounce Christ.
And that is something that gets repeated in story after story about all of the apostles with two exceptions, Judas, who either, depending on which part of the New Testament you're reading, either was hung or fell into a field and then burst asunder and his, his intestines gushed out.
Or, or the other one being, being John, the apostle who said, he said to have died of old age, all the others in one story or another are said to have been killed and the ways in which they get killed are, I mean, it's super lurid, like Simon the zealot gets on in half,
Matthew gets stabbed, Thomas gets stabbed, Peter apparently is crucified on an upside down cross.
And, you know, the, you know, the worst one of them all is Bartholomew, who is flayed, he's skinned.
Right. And if anybody's been to the Vatican, you can see in Michelangelo's fresco of the last judgment, the altar wall fresco there.
You've got Bartholomew who's kind of hovering on a cloud at Jesus's feet. And in one hand, he's holding a cleansing knife. And in the other hand, he's holding the empty bag of his own skin.
And, you know, it's, I mean, it's just ridiculous, isn't it?
But, you know, what these stories illustrate, you know, I think you mentioned, you know, your friend, who's an apologist, and I think a lot of apologists might want to turn to these stories.
And there's a common argument, right, and it goes something like this, that see this demonstrates the truth of the resurrection, because why would anybody die for a myth, right?
But putting aside the sort of logical holes in that argument, I mean, let's just, let's leave that aside. The point that these things, that these stories illustrate is that, isn't that they're true or not?
And we can talk about, you know, historicity of certain texts. But what the, what these stories about the deaths of the apostles illustrate is that many early Christians, and a lot of these stories are late, by the way, like fourth, fifth, sometimes even sixth century,
that they believed that those who were closest to Jesus would have naturally have followed him in death, right? For every single apostle, there are oftentimes multiple stories written about their deaths.
David Eastman has a book that's entitled, The Many Deaths of Peter and Paul, where he collects and narrates all of these different stories, the Acts of Peter, the martyrdom of Paul, the Acts of Peter and Paul, the martyrdom of Peter and Paul, and they get written over many, over many decades, many centuries, all narrating in their own way, how those closest to Jesus also died.
It's, it's also wild to me that, that Christians, apologists will make that argument that it must be true because they followed Jesus unto death, right? They like, why? They believe, like, they truly believe that. But the problem with that argument, I find is, you know, in America, you had that tragic, you know, 9-11 terrorist attacks, obviously, the people who were flying the planes, they definitely believe what they were believing, right?
To fly those planes, you know, to commit that terrorist act.
And you have other religions as well, not just Islam, that, you know, have suicide and, and as a form of, I guess, veneration, or I guess, against, now, this is a serious trigger warning.
I'm going to show an image. It's not super graphic, but it is, it's pretty graphic. So come back in 15 seconds if you don't want to see something, but, but Rage Against the Machine has a, you know, their, their first album had the, an image of a monk who set themselves on fire as the, as a cover.
Now this image is on YouTube, so I know it's not going to be okay. It's going to be okay. But this monk was protesting, this Buddhist monk was protesting the Vietnam War. They, they told all these news organizations, they came here and then you just set himself on fire and then just burn to death.
It's sitting in that position. That is also someone who very much believes what they believe, you know, to set themselves onto a lot, to pour the gasoline all over themselves and set themselves on fire.
I'm not going to show that image again if anyone's come back now. But it's, it's, yeah, it's, it's quite gruesome. I, I would be fascinated to know what, if we had cameras, what we would see in, in Christendom, you know, in, in, in Christianity, its history, what we would see of the martyrs, because the stories that we have of them are very wild and, and in, in crazy, like, like you said, by falling, you're getting skin.
Failed. Yeah. Yeah. Well, we don't have any instances of people dousing themselves in fourth century gasoline and setting themselves on fire. So that's, you know, that's a bit of a different thing.
But I mean, what you, what you do raise with that image, David, is, you know, an interesting point about the voluntarily, voluntariness.
Is that a word? We'll make it a word. Voluntariness. I think that's a word.
You're asking the wrong person.
Yeah.
I used the word, the wrong, the wrong.
The voluntariness of death, right? That, that's not something that gets really, you know, you're not supposed to go and find somebody and announce to them that you're a Christian and say, Hey, please, you know, make sure that I get killed, right?
You know, there are stories of that, of that happening, but that maybe those stories are being told specifically by way of critiquing it.
And, you know, one of the most renowned martyrdom narratives that we have from, from antiquity is the story of the martyrdom of Polycarp.
And Polycarp, one of the, one of the main reasons why it's so interesting is because of how early it is, probably not written, it's set in the middle of the second century, is probably not written as a number of scholars,
namely Candida Moss, but a number of others have, I think, quite convincingly argued that the text as we have it has elements that are really unlikely to be mid-second century, that it's probably a text that was written sometime in that first half of the third century.
But there is, I'll tell the story in just a second, but there's a character in there named Quintus. And, you know, he, he goes, he comes forward voluntarily in the city of Smyrna, which is where this story is set.
This is Izmir on the Aegean coast of what's now, of Southwestern Aegean coast of what's now Turkey. Polycarp is the bishop.
He kind of retires, Polycarp does to a country, a state, when there are people, at least according to the text, kind of lowing for the blood of Christians.
He's not fleeing, but he's just not voluntarily sticking himself forward. Quintus does. And then he's shown to the beasts, you know, where he's going to be tossed the lions, and then says, Oh, hang on a second.
Yeah, I'm going to back out of here. I'm going to recant what I said. Right. And that's precisely what, you know, at least narratively speaking, the text is saying to you, you know, you are reading this.
Don't do this, right. And I should also interject here that we've got tons of stories, whether they're actually narrating things that that actually happened is that's a completely different topic, right.
And, you know, from my interest in using these stories, just like with the stories of the apostles, isn't this question of are they true or not, but rather that they exist at all that we have them is what I think is interesting because they've been copied and they've been repeated.
I mean, as I mentioned in the book, how else would Michelangelo know how to paint Bartholomew like he did, if there hadn't been centuries of tradition passing down this story, right.
So it's as the American anthropologist from the 60s and 70s Clifford Gertz once put it so so well.
Another is the stories we tell ourselves about ourselves and the culture of early and medieval Christian martyr early and medieval Christianity is the is the culture that centered around the saints in large part.
Okay.
But this story about polycarp to come back to it. Okay. So he's this Bishop of Samirna mid second century.
And he that what's interesting here is, again, the connection the direct connection he supposedly was a disciple of John the apostle, who himself was a disciple of Jesus you've got an unbroken chain here which is intriguing.
When he retires to his country, a state so many elements of the story, end up mirroring the story that we find, you know, in the gospel of the passion narrative right where when he's finally brought when he's finally found, he's reclining in an
you know, kind of sounds like the Last Supper, right. He tells somebody to give the, you know, Imperial goons who have found him a meal and while he finishes his prayer. He's totally calm in the face of, you know, being arrested here.
When he when he's brought back into Samirna, it's on the back of a donkey. He's interrogated by a man named Herod, like they're kind of beating you over the head here with the parallels to the story of Jesus is dead.
And then the call, you know what he hears in the in the stadium, at least according to this text is an interesting one all of these people are saying, kill the atheists, referring to the Christians, which might make you scratch your head
Why are they calling Christians atheists. Well, look what they're not doing. Look what they're refusing to do. They're refusing to offer sacrifice to the Roman gods, whether it's a pinch of incense on for the emperor or a little bit of wine, or an animal sacrifice.
They're refusing to do that. And by refusing to offer that sacrifice, they are not serving the gods who helped the state of Rome. Right. They're the atheists. They're not doing their duty, you know, for the empire. Yeah.
So is that his. So that's his story. Because I always thought that was just like a, like an atheist or talking point that in Rome, the, you know, the Christians, the Christians were called atheists by the Romans. And I thought that was like that.
I thought that was like kind of a myth. But is that you saying that's actual history.
Well, I mean, we have that in in this text. And we also know.
I mean, we do have certain instances in, well, we do have.
We have examples of periods of history, mainly in the third century, with the emperor, Deishas, who looms large in the Christian historical imagination, because he seems to have put forward he, he was only emperor for a couple of years, but he seems to have put
that everybody had to sacrifice an animal and have proof of it, right, that they sacrificed an animal to the gods of Rome. Okay.
So if you read the Christian sources about Deishas, and by the way, we don't have the text of the edict itself, we only know about it really, or at least we did until something I'll tell you about in a second, through the Christian sources.
According to the Christian sources. This was directed at them. Right.
What was interesting is that in, I can't remember when these were discovered, but there are something like 50 receipts, basically that were found papyrus receipts that were that were found in the Egyptian desert, that actually say, I such and such have witnessed, you know, David doing the sacrifice,
and he claims that he's done it, that he always does this, etc. Right. And what's really intriguing about it, finding these receipts, is that one of them, for example, says, you know, I can't remember the person's name, a priestess of the goddess Tsukos,
right, this is not a Christian, right, this was an imperial wide decree to sacrifice. And, you know, part of the reason was is because the empire was falling apart in the middle of the third century, you had,
you had Germanic tribes in the north, you had Persians in the east, you had, you know, the sort of constant rotating, you know, assassination of emperors, you had rebellions, you had the coinage had been devalued, like it was a bad situation.
And Deishus's edict seems to have been a way of having everybody in the empire, take care of the gods do what they needed to do to take care of the gods so that the gods would take care of you in the Roman Empire.
I've lost the thread here where were we going with.
No, this is what this is, this is exactly the thread is everywhere with deep drinks, especially when we're drinking together. It's actually I so don't don't worry about that but one thing I did want to mention is it's interesting that you say that I just was reminded about how, you know, they were performing these these rituals
and sacrifice, and because Rome was falling apart. And it just reminds me so much of, of Carl Sagan's quote, where have you have you read much Carl Sagan or do you know Carl Sagan demon haunted world he's read book on or Carl Sagan is but I know this book to which you
So he said he said in demon haunted world which is about sciences a candle in the dark. He says I worry that especially as the millennium edges nearer pseudoscience and superstition will seem year by year more tempting.
The siren song of unreason more seronious and attractive. Where have we heard before, whenever ethnic or national prejudice prejudices are aroused in times of scarcity during challenge of to national self esteem or nerve, when we agonize about our diminishing cosmic place and purpose, or when fanaticism is bubbling up around us, then habits of thought familiar from ages past,
reach for the controls, the candle flame flickers, the little pool of light trembles, darkness gathers, the dick, the demons begin to stir. And I find that a, I find that so typical of humanity that when we're desperate when things are going bad, we reach we look, we look to the ages past maybe we return to tradition if we if we do these these these
prayers these rituals is that we pray to this God of or if we superstitious beliefs are to creep in. And it's interesting that you brought that up that that's the reason why it became kind of this decree in the Roman Empire because Rome was falling apart.
And so it's like, you know, polycup you have to you know sacrifice your animals and, and we're talking about polycup right we weren't moving.
Yeah, yeah, sorry, I jumped around too much chronologically so Deutius's decree is in to sorry.
Polycarp is a full century earlier, but they're there. I mean, there is, there is this mention to get back on our thread of calling Christians atheists.
Right. Yes, they're not they're not doing what they need to do to support the Roman state. Right.
But what's interesting to come back to this polycarp story is that once he's in the arena, once he's finally condemned and the whole story of his trial is a little is a little murky.
That wasn't how trials happened in the middle of the arena like that right but he has this interrogation that's that's going on. Finally, when he's condemned to death.
What happens he he's about to be nailed to a stake. Again, notice the parallels here between that that story here polycarp and the story of Jesus.
And he says, I mean, it's almost kind of arrogant right he says he says I don't need your nails just you know give me some ropes here so he gets bound, you know with ropes to the stake.
But this also kind of is invoking another sacrifice, very different kind of sacrifice. Okay, we have the sacrifice of Jesus, right, who becomes the paschal lamb through his death at the time of the Passover in Jerusalem, but the binding here to a stake.
What does that jar your mind of and you know biblical history here we this is a reference, I think pretty clearly to the, you know, the binding of Isaac with the story of Abraham right.
And so you do have a sacrifice here, but it's the sacrifice of polycarps self that's going on here we've got you know it's mimicking the story of the binding of Isaac it's certainly mimicking the story of the crucifixion of Jesus.
And so then what they do is, then they light a fire, they let a fire around him, he had had this dream apparently that his pillow had burst into flames, and we learn that way earlier on in the story, and now his dream is coming true because he's been he's been tied to a stake he's going to burn, but he doesn't burn the according to the text the the fire sort of envelops him I think that the way it's phrased is like a linen sale filled by the wind it's
beautiful, right. So the fire goes all around him and he doesn't burn. And the text or the author of the text talks about him being, you know, refined, like gold refined in a furnace. What story are we referring to now here.
Right. This is a book of Daniel, right, of the three boys Shadrach, Mishra, and Abednagar, right, who end up in the furnace but they don't burn. Eventually somebody's got to run him through with a store a sword, his blood gushes out and quenches the flames.
But then when the fire is relit to burn all of his flesh, you know, away from his bones after that happens, according to the text the Christians swoop in because what are they interested in. They're interested in his bones.
And according to the text that then they're deposited in some fitting place it's unclear where and that Christians go there on the anniversary of his death year by year by year to remember him to tell his story and to venerate his bones.
And it's that sort of the interest in relics that has led Canada Moss among others.
There are other reasons for this to to say wait a minute this doesn't quite sound like a mid second century text maybe this is probably something that fits a little bit better in a third century context but the importance of this text is that it is a pretty early
narrative that you have this intentional sort of imitation of Christ that even in the way in which the story is narrated there are elements that sound like the crucifixion or the death of Jesus.
And that there's so many other biblical parallels here that get played with narratively speaking it's fascinating.
Yeah, and this whole idea of a parallel like kind of perspectives in like the Christian writings is is has blown my mind recently.
We had Dr. Josh and a serial just come on and he talked about and you might not know this or you might know this your your you mentioned that you don't necessarily do Bible scholarship but you do history mainly.
But there's the idea that the Abrahamic.
Yeah, the story of Abraham is a polemic against the Mesopotamian idea like the Epic of Gilgamesh that Gilgamesh goes into you know he he he goes into the wilderness he gets drunk off beer and the whole narratives towards civilization where the story of Abraham is the opposite.
They leave civilization and he goes around intense it's like it's like moving away from the Mesopotamian civilization so it's like a polemic it's a it's a play on.
It's like this is our story our story is actually moving away from what we consider to be like the Hebrew is evil which is Mesopotamian society.
But then furthermore I had and for the patrons who are here and thank you guys I see all you guys I'm here in fact let me just quickly bring this up.
D is one of the lovely supporters says this topic is really hitting me I'm reading saints preserved in a cyclopedia of relics right now.
So that's that's awesome I'm glad that you're enjoying the stream.
But something that kind of blew my mind it will two things is one we had and let me just share a video my patron supporters would have already seen the rough draft of this.
But we had Dr. Kip Davis on right so this is a video will be released soon I'm kind of working on it but.
Can you hear that.
I cannot.
You cannot hear that.
Let me just stop sharing I've got to sorry I've got to you should be able to hear it now.
Is something uncovered in the Dead Sea Scrolls one of the most famous things that that is attributed.
On the mouth the Beatitudes.
They're in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Really the Dead Sea Scrolls are a collection so.
And so.
Time by Jesus.
Hang on.
Hang on.
Sorry.
Hang on.
I'm just trying to.
How much whiskey have I drank.
Did I just say that one of the most famous creatures by Jesus.
There's record of that before Jesus's time.
Yes.
No.
I was blown away.
We go we go into it a little bit it's obviously not a it's not a one to one but we go into like how it's the you know.
Eight eight eight blessed be statements plus a long ninth one but then further on we talk about you know there's this book by Dennis McDonald.
Let me just find it.
Called synopsis of epic tragedy and the Gospels and he talks about that the the similarities between Odysseus going to.
Or sees magic.
Going to an island and made say a giant versus the the story of Jesus turning going to the land of the garrisons and healing the demon possessed man and the the the similarities are incredible.
Soldiers in the swine Jesus subdued about 2000 demons with his divine power and sent them into the swine and then drove the swine into the lake.
Polyphemus the shepherd called out to his neighbors the swine herds called their neighbors in the.
So to me this I mean I won't show the whole video because it'll spoil it but this video is going to be wild and the patron supporters for everybody liked it patrons have liked it but it's it's it's wild like.
To me the similarities between and I'm not saying this is an open and shut case or that the stories were taken from these these things obviously that's some.
You know history can only kind of point to similarities I guess but it is interesting that that there are these.
Not just within the biblical canon and the biblical stories there's this tradition of taking something from the past and kind of trying to explain it.
Or tie up kind of loose ends like the story of the Christianity is all about that right maybe you can touch on that is it's like.
It's like a it's like a fulfillment of the promise with Abraham and Isaac right like the sacrificing of a child.
Yeah I mean I'm I'm certainly no biblical scholar and would would make no pretence or claims to be one.
So not to comment on some of the clips that you've brought up but the broader principle here is certainly the case right in the sense of.
There are intertextual relationships where one text is drawing from responding to.
Expanding expanding upon elements that it that the author has found in previous texts.
I mean that's true even for just to give one simple example for the Gospel of Matthew I mean Matthew.
Is all the time reaching back to the Hebrew Bible by way of explaining what he's talking about in his particular narrative right.
You know one of the things that that I talk about with with my undergraduates is if you read a text if you're an ancient author right and you read a text that you.
Theologically don't agree with or want to offer some commentary on what's what's the best approach to get your idea out there.
Is it to offer a line by line commentary is it to offer some sort of analysis that first of all how's that going to be distributed.
If you're talking about antiquity books are incredibly expensive to make and distribute.
And secondly only a small subset of your fellow scholars are actually going to be reading that.
So if you want to if you want to use those other texts and critique them or comment upon them what do you do.
You tell another story right.
That's for example we you know you and I had exchanged emails and we had mentioned or I had mentioned the proto evangelical James which is this pre gospel.
You know that tells the story of Mary and it kind of it doesn't it ends almost with Jesus's birth that's not quite the end of it but that's very close to the end right so that mainly the story is about Mary.
And what the story what that gospel is doing is it's commenting upon the nativity stories that we find in Luke and Matthew by way of emphasizing the perpetual virginity of Mary.
Right.
Yeah.
So that's what I'm saying and I think that's what you're saying to in terms of the reuse of other texts and then the the slight changing of them or in this case the pre radical changing of them to say something new.
Right.
To say something that sounds old because the last thing you want to be is novel is completely novel.
Right.
You have to be absorbed in a particular tradition.
You have to say things that make sense to your listeners right because they've heard it before but then there's a little twist and you take the story in a slightly different direction.
Yeah.
I actually had it on the notes here to to do the pre gospel of James.
And I was wondering if you could give everyone a because it was fascinating right.
I was wondering if you could give everyone like give us the the the five minute story.
I guess like just go through a short a short retelling of what actually happens in the pre gospel of James.
Can you do that.
Sure.
And this is also this is also in your book which everyone should go purchase.
It is a fantastic book and your lovely wife did the artwork for this which I don't need to tell you it is one of the best looking books that I have in my in my arsenal.
Thank you.
And but just to give credit where credit is due.
So Paul Davis who's a British print maker.
He's the one who did the the the line a type that actual image of the skull.
My wife did the design but that was based on his print.
And he's drawing and then print of a of a prayer bead that he saw at the Met in New York.
It's just it just really looking book like I thank you.
Yeah.
Awesome.
And fantastic content as well.
It's not just the cover.
I didn't quite just for the cover.
Well but I mean it is worth it just as a you know as a coffee table.
I am even if you never actually open it up.
It's a nice little conversation piece.
There we go.
I'll give you the really quick version of the the protein and jelly of James bullet was quickly back up right.
What's the Christmas story.
Right.
Everybody thinks it was just because you've seen your grandmother's crush that you've got you've got shepherds.
You've got the wise men.
You've got the star.
You've got the manger.
People who are deeply familiar with the New Testament recognize that first of all.
Many of your people listening here might know this too.
Only Matthew and Luke tell the story of Jesus's birth.
And they don't tell the same story.
Luke is the one who talks about the shepherds.
Luke is the one who talks about the manger.
Matthew is the one who talks about the magi who talks about the star.
But they get blended right when we see you know the the crash scene laid out at Christmas time or you know even in a mall or wherever you happen to see it right.
But for the if you're wanting to defend the perpetual version virginity of Mary.
Luke's gospel really isn't so much of the problem because it talks about the Annunciation to Mary.
By the way today's March 25th the on the Catholic calendar the the Feast of the Annunciation when you know we're here nine months before Christmas when you know Gabriel Angel Gabriel comes to Mary and says a little bit of news for you.
So that's what an amazing time to pick.
That wasn't a coincidence right.
Just a coincidence.
But Matthew's gospel is the problem if you're wanting to defend the perpetual virginity of Mary because Matthew's gospel says that after Jesus was born Joseph and Mary live together.
There's even a line I'm not going to quote it exactly right but that they had no relations until after Jesus was born something to that effect right.
So, again, if what you want to do is say, you know, this text is important, but I think we need to change it.
You do what the author of the proto evangelical James does and so this text was written it's a Greek text.
Second century at some point early second early to mid second century.
And it tells the story of Mary tells the story of her of her birth and where she's already kind of special.
And that then when she's only a couple of two three years old, she's kind of given to the temple in Jerusalem is this kind of, you know, temple virgin so to speak.
And of course when she gets to be to the age of 12 and she's on the verge of administration and would thereby defile the temple they need to, they need to find somebody to take care of her.
And the intriguing twist to this story is that Mary is presented, obviously she's 12 so she's being presented here is quite young.
Joseph gets presented as somebody who's old who already has not only old but so old that he already has full grown sons.
This by the way is how do you go about explaining references to the brothers of Jesus.
Well here you go it's it's Joseph's kids by a previous marriage right so Joseph is a widower.
He gets selected to take care of Mary.
He's not being selected as her husband, right he's being selected as her guardian.
And so, you know, the rest of the story ends up like absorbing elements that you know from the stories from from Matthew and Luke.
But then the really crazy bit happens when they don't quite make it to to Bethlehem.
You know, Mary Joseph is saddled and asked one of his sons is leading it Joseph is walking behind Mary is on the donkey, and she cries out she says you know, the child within me is pressing forth.
Joseph finds a cave in the desert in which to hide Mary, and he runs off to find a midwife.
You know, of course, as fate should have it he happens to bump into one quickly tells you know the story has he's been entrusted with this young version who became pregnant somehow, and she's about to give birth and hey come help me she's in a cave.
Well by the time they get back to the cave there's this blinding flash of light and Jesus is born right so again emphasizing the, the, how supernatural this birth is.
The midwife goes in and you know kind of comforts Mary, and then she leaves, and as she's leaving she encounters a woman who gets named Salome.
And the midwife tells Salome the story of what's just happened hey this virgin just gave birth in a cave. Salome says, Are you crazy that that can't happen.
And then the really weird bit Salome goes in to physically inspect Mary's condition right I mean this is like, you know, the reference here is, or maybe think of like the doubting Thomas extending his fingers into Jesus's side so Salome is in physically
Mary's condition, and her hand immediately, you know withers up and is black and like it's burnt by fire for her doubt, right, or for for touching the Holy Virgin Mary.
Of course, an angel appears and says well hold out your hand by that little baby infant and he'll he'll heal it, which is what happens and then there's kind of a Daniel lawn, you know the text ends.
But we're we're we're circling back around here to the clip that you showed right of just how earlier stories get absorbed, and then changed in retellings of narratives to advance your own theological agenda.
And in this case for this author that Mary was a virgin, when Jesus was conceived, during the birth of Jesus and after the birth of Jesus.
Right. Yeah, that's that's why I was going to say that's a wild STD to have that someone's hand would shrivel and gum black and great.
But that would be a distasteful joke.
That would be distasteful.
But here's why I forgot to add one little element right is okay so you know I mentioned the crash scene at the beginning before we started talking about this right you always have look at any crash scene look at any piece of Christian art there's
an ox in an ass like right hovering right behind the little baby Jesus's head, or right nearby.
You don't hear about an ox or an ass in Matthew's Gospel, or in Luke's Luke talks about shepherds, he talks about sheep, but he never mentions an ox and an ass right where do they come from comes from the proto evangelical James.
Right so they're there there are elements in the Christmas story, or at least in the present the visual presentation of the Christmas story that all of us see every single year that have nothing to do with the canonical Gospels from the New Testament.
So, let me just share that because I've never given it two seconds of thought.
So, you've got like these are a bunch of obviously
Yeah, well, none of the text anything about camels either but those do crop up by the way in other sources later sources.
Wow.
That's super interesting that because obviously this would be like the the stables right this is like the idea.
I should have found some some actual some actual like
Look, just to the right there.
Interesting.
Yeah.
That's super interesting and you just you just never think about how because like you said these things still affect their lives today, but not in the way that we would we we we realize like it's just it's right there but it's like and and when was James written was did you say it was in the second century.
Yeah, probably mid second century.
Okay, it's, um, yeah, this the so the variety of religious lay of true Christian like perspectives is is is huge.
I did want to to come up to talk about a little bit about how let me let me just get my thoughts together.
I wanted to show some footage and I have shown this once before but I'll show up with the audio.
Have you ever been to Prague before.
I have in the late 90s, I was there in the middle of winter.
Oh yeah so that's that's when we that's when we came out.
Do you do you do you ever visit the church of for girl what's it called.
There is a church in Rome called costel civ jacuzza vest.
Oh my gosh I'll put it in the chat.
I think you should do an audio version of your book because I think it's it'll help me, but I think I think audible would be awesome.
But so in in this church I'll just I'll just let my wife so my wife and I decided to try and be travel vloggers and we got 10s of views.
No one can travel but this is that this is part of our Prague episode and so I'll just I'll just show it and if you can hear it.
So apparently in this church behind me about 400 years ago some guy decided that he wanted to steal something from the church and the church caught him.
So they cut off his hand as funny arm as punishment and then hung it from the ceiling and it's been there for the last 400 years.
So we're going to go in and see if we can get a photo.
That was the most beautiful and creepy church I've ever been in my entire life.
So let me just go back to it.
That's a dead man's hand hanging from a bit of rope or bit of 400 years old.
He tried to steal something and they cut it off and his hand is just hanging there.
It's this is a bad you know this is from my taken from my iPhone but yeah you can see real photos of it online.
It's it's wild.
That is wild.
I was not aware of that that church.
I don't know.
It's definitely worth a visit.
They don't advertise it like it's like you have to look for it.
It's like it's hidden behind a beam and it's but it's there and it's they've done testing on it like and it's 400 years old and the history says it's about 400 years old as well.
So yeah super super weird.
So something you mentioned your book.
Sorry.
What are we saying?
I was going to say it's a that's a long standing warning of don't don't try to steal anything from this church.
Yeah.
So something that that kind of I'd never expected to find in your book was the drunken martyrs festivals.
So festivals became like martyrs festivals became so important that you should be saying that they were trying to get like a martyr for every day of the year at one stage is that right.
Yeah, I mean these.
Yeah, I mean in terms of the the the coalition of the so called calendar of the saints or the liturgical cycle of the year.
There I mean the the martyrology there is some martyr that's named on on every single day of the year and actually multiple martyrs that are named if you were looking at the Roman martyrology or if you're looking at the Greek one as well.
And I mean that sort of slow building kind of gets back to what I was talking about with why we're drinking the skull right as you remember a particular person on the particular day of their death, and that that sort of annual celebration helps you know
hasten the process or or or enhance the process of memory because it's not just okay this happened and we're going to tell this story and then we're going to put it on a shelf.
No, you, you, you bring that book down or you bring some sort of abbreviated version of it down. And if you're a priest preaching to your flock on the feast of whoever it happens to be, St. David, or St.
whoever, you tell that story again. Right. And yeah, I mean, I think you were, why were we bringing this kind of calendar up.
Well, the, the, what I didn't realize was that there were these martyr festivals happening at the time, but but there was a fifth century monk who was kind of celebrating the fact that he had kept his virginity despite going to so many of these drunken martyr festivals.
Oh, I see, right. Yeah, no, I mean, yeah, it's a it's a party. I mean, it's not every single one and it depends on on which one you're talking about but we do hear from many bishops in antiquity about the necessity of kind of walking a fine line between
encouraging their flock to rejoice in the saints and celebrate these people who who in the case of the martyrs followed Jesus in death and to uphold that story of that person on that day as as something important.
But at the same time, they didn't want many of these bishops, they didn't want their, their congregations, taking things too far in Augustine's, St. Augustine's Confessions.
He tells the story of his own mother, St. Monica, who he says used to bring some homemade cakes and wine to sell to have a picnic right on top of a particular tune and to celebrate the martyrs.
And Augustine says that his mentor, St. Ambrose of Milan, that he, you know, went after Monica for doing this, you know, and Augustine kind of tries to defend her and says, Well, she was just, she was just some small sips of wine from a very tiny glass,
she had such a silver palette, right. But the, the example that you mentioned is, is a great one of that's Theodorette is the Bishop of Cyrus Cirrus in Syria, who's telling this, these history of these, these monks of Syria.
And he mentions one guy that's as you said, who was this ascetic, who boasted of having maintained his virginity despite the large number of martyrs festivals he had attended in his youth.
So, I mean, yeah, but I mean, the point here is, is that, you know, to think that everybody is just in church and praying and is, you know, that it's something somber.
That's not what it was, you know, you are celebrating your, your heroes here and this isn't happening in every place and every day, obviously, you know, work has to get done.
But there are some number of red letter days on the calendar that, that would have been days of feasting and celebration for sure.
It's, yeah, and do you have any, do we have any idea historically about what some of these drunken martyr festivals would have been like?
Like, what was it similar to what we see in like the day of the dead in Mexico, or is it, you know, do they meet in the youth hall and play worship music?
And like, what, what, what, what was the, you know, what was the, what was it like?
I don't know if, if any, I would actually be keen to know if somebody has written some sort of social history.
I mean, it depends, of course, of where you're talking about and when you're talking about, and these feasts are going to change over time.
But at least what we, what we hear about from antiquity is that, you know, to, to rain things in a little bit, right, that you would hear on the solemnity of the martyrs feast, right.
So the night before the feast, there's usually some sort of Eucharistic service, some sort of liturgical service, and that's when you may have had the story of that martyr being read.
And then the next day, I mean, you know, who knows, it just, it just depends on the location, you know.
But we do hear this concern that gets echoed among a number of bishops about wanting to make sure that the celebrations were pious in nature.
But clearly they were fighting an uphill battle.
The Pope of Deep Drinks, which is the highest patron supporter, Aaron Colson, Papa Aaron Colson, as asked, are these festivals intended to keep the working class pacified?
Well, bread and circuses, right?
I mean, quite possibly, right? I mean, you have, you know, you need a release valve, and you're going to have festivals, you're going to have days off, no matter what culture you're talking about or when.
And without those, things are going to get pretty difficult for you, you know, for the place that you happen to be living in.
So yeah, sure, it's a release valve.
And, you know, they, the martyr's feast took the place of other sorts of celebrations that may have preceded them.
Awesome. St. D has said, St. Dennis is said to have picked up his head and walked to the place where he wished to have been buried.
Is that true?
Or is that true? Is that true in history? And is that true?
Sorry, you know, I hope you know what I mean.
Well, having never seen anybody pick up their head and walk anywhere with it, I'm going to say that the likelihood of that is probably pretty small.
That story does sound vaguely familiar, but D has clearly read the story of St. Denis more recently than I have.
Awesome.
So you mentioned something.
He was beheaded. I do recall that. I know he was beheaded, so yeah.
So can we go quickly touch on, as we kind of like, we're coming near to the end of the episode.
And we've got a lot more things I want to talk about, but you know, hopefully we can do this again sometime.
But we've wanted to quickly touch on the relics, because you mentioned your book about the relics.
And I, you know, as a form of Pentecostal Christian, the idea of relics was not something that we entertained.
I know the Catholics like relics.
I don't, and I know there are other groups of Christians who like relics, but I've never really understood their purpose or the history behind them.
And I didn't realize that some of them had miracle, like kind of powers, like is the idea behind them.
Could you touch on first the purpose and the history of relics?
And then we can kind of go into a few.
Yeah, well, it's a, it's a massive topic as you posted up.
I think it was D earlier, right, who's reading the encyclopedia version, right, just to give you a sense of, you know.
But I mean, when I mean, the word, our word relic, you know, comes from a Latin term that just means something that's been left behind, right.
So in the case of the saints, you, you may have the actual body parts may have bones, right.
But in the case of Jesus, I mean, there, there are relics associated with him too.
For example, even though he's bodily assumed according to Christian belief, he's bodily assumed into heaven.
So you don't have the pieces of his physical body.
You, you do have the tools of torture that touched him.
So for example, the crown of thorns, the cross, all of the linen wrappings in which he was buried, right.
I mean, those were incredibly important relics in antiquity and through the Middle Ages.
In fact, I mean, I'm sure people remember the horrific fire at Notre Dame in Paris just a couple of years ago.
And one of the relics that was believed to be there that was saved by the Parisian fire brigade was the crown of thorns.
It was acquired by supposedly by St. Louis, by King Louis the 9th in the 13th century, I believe.
And, you know, he had acquired it.
It had at one point apparently been the control of the Byzantine emperor and then, you know, it was pond here and there and eventually became collateral and then, you know, somehow St. Louis eventually got a hold of it, right.
But to go back to the, to the main question you're asking here, right, why, why is this interest in relics?
I don't think, I think it's weird. I think we think relics are weird when you're, especially if you're talking about a bone, right, because of its inescapable connection with, with putridity and death.
And so it makes probably most of us a little bit squeamish to think here's something that's encased in perhaps gold or jewels and that I'm supposed to be, you know, venerating that.
The fact of what I was talking about at the very beginning of this episode about why we're having mescal is this idea of there not being a divide between the land of the living and the land of the dead.
And from the perspective of many Christians, the saints, though dead and though in heaven, are still physically present in their remains on earth and, you know, can intercede if you are going and praying to this saint for help.
This is not, this is not worshiping these saints. It's not worshiping their relics, but recognizing that the power of their holiness and that they're, in the case of the martyrs, because of their witness unto death, that they have, they have God's ear.
They have, you know, they're, they're proximate to God in ways that just you're one of the middle dead folk art, right.
And, you know, I, so again, I think that it's weird for us because it's body parts, but this desire to possess the remains or the things that our holiest heroes, or even just our regular heroes, you know, once touched is universal.
You know, one of the things that was totally fascinating to me is last baseball season, if you follow Major League Baseball at all, when Aaron Judge of the New York Yankees was closing in on this big home run record to break a record that hadn't been, that had been held for decades.
The Major League Baseball marked, put special marks on all of the balls that were being pitched to Aaron Judge, because they wanted to know exactly which ball was the record, record breaking one, right.
And like, you know, I tell a version of this story in the book, but baseballs and bones are pretty hard to tell apart. One is just as indistinguishable from the next, right.
Like, what is it, what, what makes it so special? But, you know, if you go on eBay and you, you know, you look for somebody who's who's selling a jacket, you might sell a jacket for 50 bucks.
But if it's a jacket that David, David Bowie wore, all of a sudden it's worth thousands of dollars.
Yeah, I'd love a jacket that David Bowie wore.
Well, absolutely. Right. But the point here is, is that it's, I don't think it's that weird that we have this interest in the things that our heroes once touched.
And in the case of the history of Christianity, what would be more valuable than the remains of something that was credited with healing powers?
This isn't just an object like, you know, like a baseball and say, hey, you know, I've got the one that Aaron Judge hit. This is something that was, you know, accredited with possibly bringing sight to the blind and, you know, healing your illness or whatever.
And, you know, the, we have instances, you know, we have examples, plenty of examples of registries that are kept at particular shrines to saints of all of the miracles that have been attributed to that particular saint.
I mean, that alone is totally fascinating.
Literarily, just these monastic registries of miracles that have been attributed to X, Y or Z saint.
So, so the obvious question is, historically speaking, how certain are we that the crown of thorns that was, you know, saved is the actual crown of thorns or the shred of Turin or the holy foreskin that you mentioned in previous email?
Like, how do we know maybe you could go into the holy foreskin as well.
But how do we know that the like, do we have any that we know for certain came from antiquity?
I mean, I'm sure that there are some relics of much later saints that could be verifiable or verifiably from from them.
Do we have the actual crown of thorns?
I'm going to say that's rather highly unlikely.
But, you know, the point is, again, it's that there is an object around which there is so much interest around which there are so many stories, right?
You mentioned the shroud of Turin, right?
That shroud of Turin is quite late.
I don't think we have any reference to it until something like the middle of the 14th century.
But there were plenty of other cloths associated with Jesus that existed long before the shroud of Turin did.
One of the stories that I love is of the image of Idessa.
So Idessa is the ancient name of the city of Urfa, which is in southeastern Turkey.
It was actually designated by the recent earthquake.
But the story goes something like this.
Eusebius is the great church historian of the fourth century tells the story of a king by the name of Abgar in the first century, who was suffering from some incurable illness, unclear what it was.
And he writes a letter to Jesus.
And according to the story, Jesus gets the letter, you know, and reads it, you know, it says, Hey, I hear you, this wonder worker that you can cure illnesses.
Would you consider coming up to Idessa to help me out?
Jesus, apparently, according to the story, writes in back says, No, I can't make it.
I've got a lot of things going on down here, but I'll send one of my disciples.
Yeah, you know, Jesus, like, you know, like a white button, like collar jobs, like, No, I'm busy.
Like, yeah, keep going.
Yeah, I tend to very full for this week. Sorry.
Yeah, so he, you know, according, but the story changes over time.
Right. So in some versions of the story, the Jesus's letter itself becomes this wonder working relic that, you know, gets waved about on the from the walls of the Deso and the Persians are trying to take the city.
And it protects the city from harm.
In other versions of the story, you know, changes all the time.
It wasn't a letter that Jesus sent back, but rather it was a portrait of himself and that this portrait then, you know, saves the city.
And then it morphs into, you know, actually an image of him in one sort of final version that when he was in the Garden of Gethsemane and when in the gospel text, it says, you know, he's sweating.
And it's like, it's like blood, you know, like drops of sweat or falling like blood that he impresses.
You know, the image of his face on a cloth that he gives it to Thomas and that Thomas then gives it to Thaddeus and Thaddeus eventually makes his way with it to to a desa and that that's what feels the king.
Right. And we've got and there are other stories, for example, the veil of the Veronica, which was incredibly important in the Middle Ages.
And the point of the story is that they're all again, all these convoluted stories that change. Is it a letter? Is it a portrait? Is it, you know, somehow impressed it on cloth?
But that there's this sense of connection with Jesus and there's this sense that anything that he touched would be some sort of wonder working relic.
And people have heard of the Shroud of Turin, but there are tons of these, these sweat cloths, these suit, they're known as a Sudarium, right, or handkerchiefs.
You hear in Acts, right, in Acts, it says, it says about Paul that even the handkerchiefs or aprons that he touched could then be brought to the sick and it would cure them.
There's a biblical precedent here. And back to our whole point that you that you brought up earlier of you tell a story, people hear the story, then they expand on that story.
Well, here you've got a biblical mention. First, I mean, first of all, of Jesus being wrapped in linen, John's Gospel talks about a head cloth that's discarded somewhere.
Acts talks about what I just said about, you know, handkerchiefs and aprons being brought to Paul.
And so then you tell more stories and there's just this explosive proliferation of these stories.
And the Shroud of Turin is just a Johnny come lately to the story. There's so many other stories that existed way before that about these powerful cloths.
So yeah, what do you think about Ron Wyatt?
Ron Wyatt.
Do you know who that is?
You have to tell me.
He's claimed to a lot of Christians really stand behind him. He's claimed to find Noah's Ark, the Roman wheels and the Dead Sea.
He's the mountain where Jesus like sent fire down, I think he found that.
The most interesting one he found is apparently he was this preacher from a church that doesn't really believe in the power of the Holy Spirit as today.
And he's walking along in Israel and he just points and says, this is where Jesus is, the Ark of the Covenant is.
And this is an amazing story, but they go down into this cave and they find the Ark of the Covenant and they see a crack above it.
And if you look up through the crack, they realize that's where this is black matter that had fallen down.
They realize above it is where Jesus was crucified and it fell down onto the mercy seat of the Ark of the Covenant.
And the cave collapsed and they could no longer part.
But a lot of people believe that this is a real...
That's convenient.
Yeah, yeah.
And it was covered up, but a lot of people really believe that this is a true thing that happened.
I'll just try and find...
But yeah, like they had apparently they sent blood samples to certain groups in Israel to get it measured.
And they said it was both male and female blood and it's very wild.
I don't know if I wish I had...
You should look into it because it's not something that is taken very seriously by a lot of Christians today.
Like people, when you see someone make a claim that the found Noah's Ark, they'll say, oh no, Ron White found this years ago.
And they try to cover it up.
It's a conspiracy.
They don't want the world to know about the real Jesus and he's very convincing from a...
He's very good at the way he presents his ideas, but I think it's definitely all...
It's very convenient, I would say.
But I was just wondering if you had a perspective historically of that.
Well...
You can't comment.
Yeah, no comment, but something tells me he probably didn't find Noah's Ark.
I just do want to shout out your kind of stuff.
So we've got...
You've got your University of Toronto information here that people can check out,
but you've logged on twice now on Bart Ehrman's blog as a guest blogger.
And that's how I found you actually.
So people, if you subscribe to Bart Ehrman's blog, you can check that out.
And of course you have your book that people can go purchase.
And the Amazon link is in the description so you can just order it.
It's fantastic. I really recommend people check it out.
It's a great book.
Even just...
It looks amazing, the artwork is amazing and the information is so dense.
It's worth every penny.
If you want to support this channel, you can become a member by clicking the Join button here as well.
And then you get little badges and custom emojis and some personal updates for myself.
And your comments will pop up and I'll make sure I read them.
But if you want to become a Patreon member as well, you can see our behind the scenes stuff and that information.
And you can also...
When I see you come up in the chat, I'll make sure I give special favouritism to the patrons because you guys are what keep this show afloat.
I really appreciate it.
It means the world to me.
So I did want to ask you though, as we kind of like...
Not wrap up the interview right now, but as we kind of getting you into the interview, I would love to actually tell me about this holy foreskin.
What are you talking about?
Yeah, so colleagues of mine have written about this.
I'm not going to be able to say a whole lot about it other than I believe...
I mean, somebody can easily Google this, but I believe that is also at Notre Dame, the supposed holy foreskin.
Yeah, would that have been kept for posterity?
And would a piece of flesh like that have survived for 2000 years?
Seems a bit unlikely to me, but nevertheless...
Yeah, go ahead.
So wait, wait, is it supposed to be like Jesus or something?
Jesus's foreskin?
Yeah, there we go.
Wow.
Is it okay?
Yeah.
I never thought that...
I mean, it's ingenious, right?
And that, okay, he was bodily resurrected, but wait, there must be some little part of him left behind because...
Yeah, and then it must be that.
Oh, wow.
That's incredible.
Yeah, wow.
So is that something that burned up?
And do you know if we still actually have it?
Or if it's like, is it being verified?
Is it a first-century foreskin?
That seems rather unlikely.
I don't know what it is, or if anybody has trotted it out.
But yeah, I should have read up about that before.
No, that's okay.
It was kind of just...
So another thing that you kind of talk about in your book that I'm excited to dive more into as we get into the later chapters when I finish it,
but you mentioned about there's a lot of miracles, right, attributed to martyrs and saints.
What is besides, I mean, there's some interesting stories with the first saint you talk about, Albin,
and who, you know, he dries up the river and then...
Or the, you know, not being...
Was it Bartholomew or it was...
No, it was Polycup who was set on fire and he was just like okay through it all.
When he...
By the way, I forgot to read out when he was dying.
Is it true that he said,
I bless you, Father, for judging me worthy of this hour so that in company of the martyrs I may share the cup of Christ?
Is that historical?
I mean, again, we don't...
It's hard to say we have eyewitness reports and that this text is written after the fact.
And even if it is being, even if we can assume, you know, maximally speaking here, that this was being written by an eyewitness,
what parts are embellished, what parts are added later,
it's extremely difficult for us to say such and such actually happened.
On the other hand, we also can't say such and such didn't happen.
We just simply don't have the evidence.
We have literary stories and some of those you might say,
well, the context makes sense that we know that this was such and such was going on in the Roman Empire at the time,
like it's not out of the question.
Yeah, yeah, surely people were killed, surely Christians were killed in antiquity.
That's not arguable.
But a line by David Daniel Boyarn that I'm fond of quoting is being killed is an event.
Martyrdom is a piece of literature.
It's a genre, right?
And you have to, I think, hold those two things apart.
Yes, people may have been killed.
Was it like this?
Did all of these miracles happen?
I mean, that's up to the individual reader to decide.
My perspective as a historian is one of extreme skepticism.
And I'm not witnessing divine intervention in my everyday life.
So that's not something that I bring to my analyses of these texts.
Again, though, I don't want to come across as saying none of this is true.
To me, that's actually not the most interesting question for me.
The most interesting question is, why do we have this proliferation of stories about all of these martyrs?
And how does that go about shaping the culture of Christianity in late antiquity and in the Middle Ages and really up to the present?
The persistence of these stories is what's interesting to me.
Yeah, you quote David Eagleman, who says that every human dies three deaths.
He says it's the obvious one when the body ceases to function.
The second death is when the body is consigned to the grave.
And the third is the moment sometime in the future when your name is spoken for the very last time.
Of most of the thousands of Christians said to have been martyred in Persia, nothing remains.
Yeah, it's profound, profound idea, isn't it?
Yeah, well, I love that from Eagleman, from his book, Some, which is a totally fascinating read.
But that, again, gets back to what we were talking about right at the very beginning of this episode, David, about the importance of remembering names and invoking these names of these past heroes, right?
If you read that again from Eagleman, right, that third and final death, right?
The first one is when your body ceases to function, the second one when you're buried, and the third one, and this, oh my God, how does this not rip your heart out?
When somebody somewhere says your name for the very last time, right?
And then you're totally forgotten.
Actually, that's a perfect ending, and segue, because that's the conceit of that Disney film, Coco, that Pixar film, right?
Is that if you've got this image, this photograph of your relative upon the altar, if you don't have that person's photograph up there year after year,
eventually in the land of the dead, they pass away, they fade away like Marty McFly in the photograph from Back to the Future, right?
They died his final death, right?
And in fact, I first came across that Eagleman quote, I'd read his book, but I was reminded of it by an article in The New York Times a few years ago by Bill Shapiro,
who I think used to be the photograph photography editor of Life Magazine, where he used that.
And this is somebody, Bill Shapiro, who collects all these old photographs.
He goes around to garage sales and gets all of these other people's photographs, you know, from decades ago.
And that, again, is just totally rips your heart out of, like, whose photos are these?
Like, whose family photos are they?
Why were they discarded?
And like, these are all photos of people who are decades dead.
And am I the last one to ever look at this person, right?
The importance of memory.
So, you know, the importance of having an annual means of celebrating these saints is, that's something that persists throughout.
That's a thread that goes throughout this book.
And the importance of names.
The importance of saying their names.
It's galling to a lot of these historians who write about the martyrs.
And when they talk about, you know, oh, this many people were killed and there was thousands of people killed, you know, and that they can't tell the story of each individual person and give each individual name.
But, you know, as Paula Fredrickson once put it, it's not as if tens upon tens of thousands of people were being, Christians were being killed in their antiquity.
Somewhere, but it wasn't tens upon tens of thousands.
But what do you have?
You have tens upon tens upon tens of thousands of people reading the stories of the few who were in holding up their memory.
And that's, that's, that is a perfect way to kind of describe your book.
And when I was, I was doing recently, I was doing research on a family tree.
And I remember, I had so annoying McDonald's is such a large clan in Scotland that, you know, we go, if I could get to, if I could get to, I think, 1750 AD, I could trace my lineage back to Somalete of 1150 AD.
But I can't, I can get to 1780, which is when the census starts in Scotland.
So I'm missing like 40 years where I could like tie it all together, which is so frustrating.
But one of the things that, that I found really profound when I was looking into this is I was looking into the census dates for some of my family, you know, my great, great, great, great grandfather or whatever.
And it's like, his name is written in handwriting on a census form and the date.
And that's it. That's all that's remains of him.
Like all, all his, his wife, it's like, nothing else is known about that person, whether he was a good man, a bad man, whether he was an alcoholic or a priest.
We don't, we don't know anything.
He's just that all that stuff for them is his little bit of handwriting and the date that like that's it.
And it was like, whoa, it's like, how many people in history do we have that?
How many stories were just never written down? How many, you know, and, and, and it was at that stage, I started cataloging everything.
In fact, every time we have a family gathering now, I stick my, my phone just on the next, near the table and I just record the whole conversation and then upload it privately on YouTube.
Because, you know, and now we look back, we got conversation from five years ago when Nan was with us and we can, we can see like a family dinner.
And it's like those moments of a kind of special and I think that's your book kind of, you know, you've had some people say, not like, are you supposed on Twitter that too long didn't read like he didn't like it.
Like some Christians have come up against your book and said, no, Christianity is not a cult of the dead.
But, and although it is a title that tries to capture people's attention, what you're kind of, you're not saying it in a negative way.
You're saying it in kind of a, an honoring respectful, like, in an honoring way, you know, like it's steeped in Christianity is steeped in the blood of its martyrs.
And that's the whole point.
And I guess to end, you, there's a quote by Ken Candida Moss in Inescapable but repugnant conclusion that dying for Christ may be the central rather peripheral, rather than peripheral part of the Christian experience.
And not that's not to say that every Christian is become a martyr.
But it seems to be what you're kind of getting at is like, to be remembered in Christianity.
And to kind of like the Christian as a whole like as you think of it is about the the martyrdom and the experience of dying as Christ.
Is that right or can you maybe expand on that as we kind of close up this interview.
Yeah, well, I think Candida's point there was that the martyrs to borrow from a title of one of her books are regarded as the other Christ's right.
That's the actual title of her book.
And if you look at so much of this literature just as we've talked about you mentioned you read from Ignatius's letters we talked about St. Albin.
But this willingness, at least according to these stories to follow in the footsteps of Jesus recognizing as Ignatius put it that that's what it means to be a true disciple.
And I think that that's what she was getting at with the quotation that you just read, repugnant perhaps to many Christians today to think that this is the particular calling, but not repugnant at all.
If you're operating in the era of late antiquity, and you have this understanding of well this is what happened to Stephen. This is what happened to the Apostles.
This is what happened to the people who knew people who knew the Apostles that that that sort of testimony in blood by way of following in the footsteps of Jesus is a simple expectation.
It's jarring for us to hear that in 2023. That's not most people's conception of Christianity.
But that in, as you said, and thank you for saying it, in not in a pejorative way, not in a, hey, this is stupid sort of way or hey, this is crazy sort of way but hey, but in a way that what I'm trying to say is, this is amazing.
This is really fascinating in terms of the culture of Christianity that is built around the memory of the dead.
And that is exactly what your book is all about.
And just to just to promote it one more time, guys, make sure check the book out if you if it sounds interesting to you this book is amazing.
I'm sure we're going to see a lot more of Kyle Smith on future episodes of maybe this show and maybe some other shows.
I think you need to get out there because your content is truly awesome.
And this isn't your first book, by the way, this is your first popular level book, right?
Then the other books are more academic in nature.
Yeah, the other books are more academic in nature.
If you're, if you're up late, and you are trying to get to sleep, you should probably read one of those.
But this book, very different, I hope it's, it's entertaining.
Donov, Donov had said, he disagreed with him.
He said, it is true, Christianity is not a cult of the dead, it's cults of the dead.
Fair enough.
And D said, this is fascinating. Thanks, Kyle.
This really was fascinating. Thank you so much.
And thank you for introducing me to this.
I'm very surprised by this, by the way, I'm very surprised.
I think I'm going to go out there and make my wife take a little bite of it.
It's interesting flavor, I'll say that much.
And Kyle, thank you so much.
You can follow Kyle on Twitter, links in the description, as well as checking out his book.
We'll leave this episode with a trailer for the purity culture panel that is coming up in April.
We will be announcing the guests in the next couple of weeks, the panelists in the next couple of weeks.
But thanks, guys. I'll see you later. Bye.
Thanks, David.
You
You
