Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcast. Today my guest was a worship pastor for 25 years.
They're now the author of a book called If I'm Really Honest, The Transparent Thought
Life of a Reluctant Deconstructionist. My guest today is Jamin Koller. Welcome to the show.
Thank you. I'm super excited to chat to you because you sent me a book. I've had a chance
to flip through it and I love, I haven't had a chance to read the whole thing, but I love the
parts that I have read so far. Yeah, no one will have a chance to read the whole thing. It's ridiculous.
It's like 400 and something pages, right? Yeah, it's 400 and something pages. Yeah.
So I get like books sent to me every now and again from people who want to share their story
and they're always like a pamphlet. They're like 50 pages or 100 pages. Yours is like decent. It's
really well filled out. That's an interesting word for it. Okay, yeah, it's decent. It's very decent.
Like it's decent and it's like thick, you know what I mean? Well, frankly, it's like three,
I mean, we could talk about it later. It's kind of three books in one. So, and each of them are
broken down in a lot of those sections. So it's kind of like two or 300 pamphlets, frankly. But
anyway, yeah. Yeah. So I'm going to like flip this whole deconstruction style interview on its
head. I'm going to ask you first, what do you, how do you define yourself now? This is usually the
end of the conversation. Oh, right. And then I'm going to, then I want to go right back and then
kind of like, we can tell the story up into that moment. So I guess like, how do you define
yourself now? Are you a Christian, a skeptic, a believer, a reluctant believer, a reluctant
atheist, like a heathen? Like, how do you define yourself? Yeah, I like all that. We'll go with
all that. I don't know. I mean, this is I think one of the freeing, more freeing aspects of leaving
a group like what I'm calling fundamentalist evangelicals. And I don't mean that term
insulting me, as some people do. But it's, it's a very, yeah, it's a very strict group
with very strict rules, because that's what the Bible says it's supposed to be.
And so when you leave a group, like, like that is your identity. And explicitly so, like, we say,
this is my identity, we say, God is my identity is my identity, Christianity, like that's,
that's what you are. First and foremost, you're a representative of Christ. And then after that,
you're whoever you are, you know, but Jamin ranks way down on the list of things that I am. I'm a
follower of Christ. I'm a lot of things before I'm a godly man, and all these things. And then way
down at the bottom is like, Jamin. So we're all supposed to look exactly like Christ. And then
with slight variations, because we all have different personalities or whatever, but the
personalities, you know, sitting at the bottom. So then, when you don't have that anymore of like,
here is my identity, when they all say, hey, you're not part of our group anymore. And you're
like, well, I think I am. And they're like, no, you're definitely not. Then you've got to,
well, I've got to decide, okay, well, then what am I? And as it turns out, that thing that was
sitting at the bottom is pretty cool, actually. And so that's, that's what I am. And so, yes,
depends on who, as I say in the book, like it depends on who I'm talking to as to what the way
I would describe myself, because I understand that all the terms have different baggage for
different people. So if I, if I call myself an atheist to a Christian, I've just limited my
opportunities to talk more with them. And so I wouldn't call myself an atheist. And I, frankly,
frankly, don't think of myself as an atheist. If you woke me up at 3am and said, you know,
are you Christian? I'd be like, yeah, I'm a Christian. That's what that's what I feel like
I am. So I feel like I can be honest and say I'm a Christian. However, I mean, really honestly,
I don't believe a lot of the stuff that the people who call themselves Christians believe.
And so from their perspective, I'm definitely an atheist, and they're not wrong. I don't believe
like them. And so in their categorization, I'm an atheist. So I'm comfortable with all those labels.
I don't really care. Like the term Christian was not a term when Christian wouldn't Jesus
walk the earth if indeed he worked there. And so like, and there's nowhere in the Bible that says
that I have to be a Christian. So I don't think that I think it was Mark Twain that said something
like, if Jesus Christ was alive today, there's one thing he wouldn't be and that's a Christian.
I kind of kind of agree with that. Like, yeah, I feel not in danger of hell by not being a
Christian, not calling myself a Christian. And yeah, so I don't know what I am. I'm
Jamie. And for the first time ever. Wow, that's that's profound. Actually,
it's funny that you say that the way you answered that is very similar to I remember one time I
answered a question like that similar. I went to a it was my brother in laws engagement party. And
it was all my old friends from church and all the you know, I used to be a youth pastor. So it's
like a lot of the the youth and stuff are there. And I'm like drinking and like, you know, like,
I'm not like, you know, like, I'm not I hadn't been going to church for years. And this, this,
this, I was sitting around with a couple of youth who knew me who were like my, you know,
yeah, right. I was I was my leaders. And then this new little like kid who's like,
just run around asking people if they're Christian. And he's like, you Christian. And then I was like,
and then if they said no, he was like, why not? And then like, you know, and anyway,
so he asked me and I was like stuck because I didn't know what I was at the time. I definitely
didn't think I was a Christian. If you were to ask me, I put me in a vacuum and there was no
baggage to any terms or anything. I probably would have been an atheist. But at the same time,
I knew that if I if I call myself an atheist, that that what that means to them is that I hate
them and I hate Christianity. And like, and I don't believe and I think that I believe there
is no God. And like, I'm very strict. When that wasn't the case at all. So I actually answered
it. It was very similar to how you just answered it, which is why I was kind of like chuckling,
which is essentially, I thought that I was like, well, I said, well, when I read the Bible, I read
of, you know, a Christian is someone who takes up the cross every day, who, you know, who preaches
the gospel and all the land, who is selfless, who, and I mentioned all these virtues that I knew
that they didn't fit either. And I said, to me, that is a Christian. And I don't fit that definition.
So I gave this like little tap dancey. Yeah, that was tap dancey. What you said wasn't
necessarily tap dancey, but I gave this like answer that I think,
precluded me from needing to just, I guess, wrestle with the uncomfortable conversations
that would have pursued. Yeah, I like that. Because I think that's the same answer that
Jesus gave when people said to him, essentially, the same question, they didn't use the term
Christian, but they're like, how do I be a Christian? And he never gave an answer. He's always like,
how about you go sell all of your stuff? That's the Christian thing to do.
Take everything you have and sell it all. And then you'll be a Christian. People are like,
are you joking? Like, that's not the real answer, right? But I think the point is,
regardless of the historicity of the events described there, I think the point is like,
if you think that you're looking down on someone else because they're not doing,
they're not following the right formula for Christianity, then that's, I mean,
the church would call you a Pharisee. The Jesus would call you a Pharisee. The church would call
you a Christian. It's funny too, because the Pharisees get like such a bad rap,
like, increasingly, when in reality, they were like the common, they were like the ones who
were like, we're the common man, we're like trying to take it back from us and not take it back.
Well, yeah, in a lot of ways. Everyone loves Pharisees.
Yeah. I mean, we don't need to get into Jewish history too much, but there were four main sects,
I think, of Jews, and they were the ones that were like, how about we just do,
we just try to understand God, and we don't worry about all the political stuff, and we just try
to follow the spirit of the law? Like, I think the church would say that they do right now.
But yeah, in Christian circles, Pharisee is now, of course, a curse word.
Well, I don't even introduce what we're drinking. What are we drinking today? What have you got?
I can't drink, man. So I've got a Moscow mule, which I made myself,
because then I can put as little alcohol in as possible, because I just got crazy headaches.
My body hates alcohol, but I do love ginger beers, so I've got a sissy drink here.
You don't have to drink alcohol. All the cool kids are doing it.
Yeah, it's so funny, because big atheist content creators come on here and then just drink water
or iced tea, and then the Bible scholars will come on, or even Christian apologists, and we can't
look at it. So I'm like, what is this weird dichotomy that I've created here?
Yeah, right. Well, and of course, Jesus' first miracle, that's everybody's favorite thing to
point at, like, take a bunch of already half-drunk people and give them more, whatever.
So yeah, I don't know, Moscow mule or anything that doesn't taste like alcohol, that's my favorite
alcohol. So I do these girly peach margarita things and stuff like that. I also love orange
and spice tea. Any of my readers from almostacult.com will recognize that that tea is being important
in my upbringing. So those are my two main drinks, but you do have a couple of drinks going at the time.
Is that tea common over there in the US? Very, very, yeah. Bigelow is like anywhere tea is sold,
you're going to run into that. Yeah, so I think it was like a $50, like I had to buy it in bulk and
order it in via, like, airmail or pigeon or whatever. Like, it was like someone on a horse
would come riding in the night and deliver it. So you did not order that, I hope?
No, I didn't. So I just took the Moscow mule. Okay, so at the start of the stream, just before
we jump right into it, at the start of the stream, Vino Media asked how much dollars superchats to
change your name to Davy Dave and then said $10 name changed to Davy Dave. All right, well,
I'll do that. So thank you to the superchat. I'll change the name to whatever you like or
within reason. Wow, I'll have to put some butter in that. So as I do that, how, what was your
upbringing like? Were you a Christian from birth? Like, were you brought up a Christian?
Did you have a born and getting experience? Like, how did you come to know Jesus?
Yeah, so you had it right. I was a Christian from birth. My dad was a pastor before I was born and we
were what I would call fundamentalist evangelicals. And so yeah, I think they told me that I accepted
Jesus when I was five, but it had to have been before then and it was multiple times after that
as every good Christian recommits their life to Christ multiple times, whatever, whenever you feel
guilty enough. So yeah, I don't know. I got a few dozen recommitments and I think five years old is
my official heaven-born birthday or something. Yeah, so do you remember what type of relationship,
well, I guess what type of church were you part of? Was it a, was it like a fundamentalist? Did you
believe, did you believe in like young earth creationism and Noah's magical zoo boat and all
the rest? Or did you, like, what kind of? I preached on young earth. Yeah. Okay, okay. Yep,
very, very. Pretty much anything that you would think of recently, like really recently in the
United States, it seems like fundamentalist evangelicalism has had this weird political,
man, I don't even want to say tinge to it, but there's a certain branch of it that's gotten
extremely political. We were always pretty, pretty steadfastly Republican because obviously no good
Christian can be a Democrat, but we didn't spend a lot of time on politics. It was just kind of
implied. So other than that, though, all the things you would think about in fundamentalist
evangelicalism, the kids camps, like I preached at kids camps for a decade or something across the
nation. And yeah, we did, we did all that. We spoke in tongues. Yep, I don't even know what
the list is, but if you're thinking it, we did it. Wow, okay. It's funny that you say, make, you know,
make the joke about, or I don't even know if it's a joke, but you know, Christians are definitely
you'd be a Republican because when I was a, when I was, this is just to show you the difference in,
I guess, American thought or Christianity. And so when I was a Christian, I remember watching,
I think it was, it was a Michael Moore documentary. And it was like him going around and
trying to raise money for the Democrats or doing something. I don't know. And a bunch of people
stood up at one of these conferences and started just quoting the Lord's Prayer or something. And
he was saying, Oh, you know, the Christians are here. And I'm like, Oh, I was so confused because
I was like, wait a minute. I was like, no, the Christians are the Christians of the Democrats,
right? Like, like the people like George Bush, like obviously they're, they're the atheists. Like,
I was so surprised. I was so surprised. I was like, wait, you're telling me the people who like guns
are the Christians? I was like, what happened to turn the other cheek? What happened to like,
like those who live by the sort of, I was so confused. I was genuinely confused.
You're reading it wrong, Davey Dave. It's not what the Bible means by that. Yeah. So
the next actually one of the one of the stories in the book is like, I grew up super duper
Republican. And then I started, like as a musician, I started, I really like gospel music. I still
do even though I have a hard time with a lot of lyrics these days. But just that the groove is,
is yeah, intoxicating. Anyway, so I really like gospel music. So I started playing more like
inner city church gigs. And so I would go in there and it was the same exact political message
with the exact opposite recommendation for how to vote, like no good Christian, obviously,
isn't going to vote for a Republican. And I was like, okay, and I'm like the only white dude
in the church building. And so like, I can't like, it's, it's awkward that I'm not a menning as
loud as everybody else, but also like, I want to be a good Christian. And that was one of the
points of like, okay, there's some stuff in here that's, that's weird. If these two pastors can
live so close to each other, and be so confident that God clearly says in his word, that you're
supposed to vote two entirely opposite ways. I can't trust them to know which, which one of them is
right. And so there's, that was kind of like some of the first permission to like, you're gonna have
to figure this out on your own, because the people who are supposed to do the knowing for you,
they don't know. And worse than that, they don't know that they don't know. And so it's just on you.
Yeah, that, yeah, and that's that that message is like, is throughout your whole book is like,
like, you uncovering these kind of like, these problems. So in your book, and I'm just trying
to pull it up. Now, you actually mentioned, so you have these like, I guess, parts. And something
that I really appreciate about your book, by the way, is you mentioned that, like, you give warnings
to the reader, like, hey, this is what I think this is like, my ideas, like trigger warnings to
deconstruct us to evangelicals to everyone, a letter to your evangelical parents, isn't our
friends evangelical friends. And, but then you break down the like your journey, I guess, into
different parts, you've got like part one, the questioner, part two, the church, part through
the spirit realm, part for the Bible, part five, the Son of God, part six, the aftershock, and part
seven, living honestly. And even just the word living honestly, like, made, I concur, I that's
I definitely feel, in my journey, it's been a process of just just following the evidence
where it leads, following the truth where it leads. So I guess my jump in there,
her real quick, to redefine some some terms there, because I think we're on the same page.
But like, as far as I'm concerned, I, I'm not led to any conclusions, necessarily,
at this point. So following the truth, wherever it leads, like, that used to mean
coming to whatever conclusions, the truth points you to. But I think I'm, I'm done,
at least temporarily, with holding fast to conclusions and never looking back at the
evidence again. And so like, following the truth down the the journey of searching for truth,
that perhaps doesn't have an end. I agree with that. But following the truth, wherever it leads,
like, coming to whatever conclusions are like, match the facts. I think I'm kind of done with
that. That was a large part of the problem is like, okay, we settled this. Now we're done with
that. You don't have to think I have to think about that again. And if anyone says the opposite
of that, then we know for sure that they're wrong. So anyway, I agree with you about following the
truth. But, but you're saying that it's kind of the truth is tentative. And you can always go
back and reevaluate the very foundations of which you grow that truth beacon from. Is that what
you're saying? Almost. Yes, I think I would agree with 100% of the spirit of that. Again,
a couple of the vocabulary words that I already lost. I wouldn't say that there is no truth or
that like, the truth definitely exists. But our ability to find it and fully understand it
is so limited that it might as well not exist. So it definitely exists. Like the truth is out
there. But I'm not entirely sure that we can find it. And I'm very sure of some things that aren't
the truth. And so that's that's more where it like my where my book lies is not like, here's what I
believe now, because now I know the truth. But like, here's what I can't believe anymore. And so
and that's where all the analogies of like the tooth fairy and Santa Claus and that stuff like
come in. And I don't mean that as an insult. I just I'm hoping actually to bridge the gap
for evangelicals. Like this isn't a kid who wakes up in the middle of the night and sees his mom
exchanging the tooth under the pillow for a dollar. Like they don't they don't want to rebel
against the tooth fairy. They just can't unsee that. And so like, what are you supposed to do
with that information? It's just really unsettling. And now you know something that you can't
unknown. And that's the feeling to me of what a lot of people call deconstruction. I don't know
if I like that term or not. But it's just like, I, I can't go back to not knowing this stuff. And
that's where all of those trigger warnings come from is I used to like play around with the truth
because I thought that we were, we see, we were secure in what we knew, like no matter what happens,
you're never going to find out that then scary stuff after that, you know, that Jesus wasn't
God, that the training isn't real, that whatever the things are, like no matter what you find in
the world, those things are going to remain the same. And so that I started throwing these questions
out like, okay, but what about this? This seems weird. Like, tell me how this leads back to the
truth of the church, or this seems weird. How does that lead back to the church? And then you
throw it out there. And the answers that you get don't lead you back to where you wanted to go.
And now you're just like, out there lost in space. I don't know if that makes any sense. But
no, it does make sense. John Dee just said, well, I love what he said about the truth,
someone who has actually deconstructed the appeal of dogmatism.
Yeah. Well, and that's dogmatism. I like that. I like that word, because that is across all
theological viewpoints. And like, like there's, there's,
well, not just like political, ideological, like every, it's, yeah, there's like,
our species in groups. Yeah, we want to, we want to settle the truth so we don't have to
worry about it anymore. We want that to be done so we can just go on having known the truth.
And I don't know that that's an option for a lot of things. So that's a, that's a good word. Thanks,
John. So your book is available now for anyone who wants to purchase. If I'm, if I'm really
honest, the transfer of thought, life, or elected deconstructionist, it was called dear, dear,
dear evangelicals. Yes. But you recently changed the name to make it more, I guess,
evangelical friendly. Is that the idea? No, so this is not evangelical friendly. If you are
an evangelical and you want to stay an evangelical, do not read my book. And I, I don't say that
lightly. There are, I, I, again, back in my more, back when I believed more in this stuff,
I was having, I was asking beta readers to read this book. And it was dear, it was called dear
evangelicals, because like, Hey, help me out with this stuff. Like what's up with this stuff?
And a lot of those beta readers came back and were like, I don't think I'm a Christian anymore.
I'm like, Oh crap, like I didn't, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to wreck everything that you've built
your life on. So yeah, so then I, I realized, like we've got some separate books. I've got some
messages for evangelicals about loving more fully and being more open. But this is not the book for,
for evangelicals who want to stay evangelical. And for anyone who thinks they're brave enough,
like, ah, I know this stuff is true. There's nothing you could do to say that would convince
me that I'm wrong. Then that's cool. Like come along and show me where I'm wrong. Because I,
if I'm wrong, there's nothing I need to know more desperately than why I'm wrong. So,
jump on if you dare. But also I'm not, I can't be responsible for the things you won't be able to
unknown after, after reading. So yeah, I'm, I'm similar in that I try and ask permission if I'm
ever going to talk to someone and challenge their beliefs, I ask permission if it's okay,
that I can do that. And this isn't relevant, but I actually was just about to ask you permission
if we could do a bit of a, a bit of a deep dive into what you just said before in regards to,
like, having, I guess, answers. Because is it, is it okay if we, if we, like, talk a little bit
about, I guess, epistemology, like where, how we arrive at beliefs? Awesome. So, I've just lost
what you, what you said before, but you said, tell me if you can tell me from correct, you said
something along the lines of, it's in, oh my gosh, my brain is just like, I don't remember what I said
either. So, sorry. So, oh geez, what was I going to say? Sorry, guys. But how we found the truth.
Yeah. Yeah, so, so I guess, I guess my question is, so, okay, so when I'm, okay, I've got,
sorry, oh my gosh, that, that happens, then I get nervous and then it makes, when I was,
when I was deconstructing the, the, in my, in my faith, I looked at like all these big questions.
So, I looked at like, Noah and like, you know, did Noah's like arc happen with the whole earth
flooded? And then, you know, I'm like, well, there are ways to, to like, make it work. Like,
it was a local flood, but then I kind of defeats the purpose of like a big flood or like, learning
about evolution. Right. So, I learned about these things and they deconstructed parts of
my faith. So, I started realizing that the Bible wasn't inerrant. I started realizing that the
church is can be manipulative and run by people who don't actually know what they're doing. They're
just following, I guess, the next, the previous generations, like iterations of a, of a ideology
and belief. I started noticing the harm of Christianity. I suddenly, you know, and this
is good stuff as well, but there's a lot of harm as well. So, I started noticing all these,
all these things. And I came to the conclusion that I needed to like, I guess, wipe the slate
clean and then determine what parts I could, could believe in, like, could say were true.
And it's interesting because what you kind of said at the start was, you kind of, it sounds
like you're kind of in the space of, you know, depending on what time of day or who's asking,
you could be an atheist, you could be a Christian, and you just kind of, you kind of,
it sounds like you're kind of living in this space of, of, in this like dichotomy, in this like,
I wouldn't say cognitive dissonance, but like in this space of holding two different perspectives.
Yes. And so, I guess, I guess my question is, if, if you were to go, like, have you gone and tried
to wipe the slate clean and see what you can build up from that clean slate? And if you were to do
that, and if you have done that, like, what, what have you found actually sticks? Yeah. Okay. So,
several things in there. Crud, I'm losing them. So about wiping the slate clean. Oh, about the,
about the different labels for me too. I just want to clarify that that's not because I, I don't
know what I think about things. But I think that the terminology around belief is so loaded,
that I keep, there's no label that a person can have in theology that doesn't communicate
a lot to their audience. So if I, if I say that I'm a Christian to an atheist, I'm already banned
from the discussion for some good reasons, but also some invalid reasons, because I'm on the
atheist side. And the same thing in the other world, like you were saying too, like, you can't
call yourself an atheist in a Christian circle, or else you don't have any more conversation. So
it's not a matter of like, well, I don't know what I am. So I guess I'm kind of a Christian,
I'm kind of an atheist. Like, I, I think I've got a good handle on what I think currently,
but I don't trust other people to handle the labels appropriately. So I'm going to change
my label, depending on my audience, because I don't want to give them the wrong impression about
what I think. So it's more that you have a private, you have a private understood, like,
worldview that is pretty like solid and ground and built up, but you don't necessarily like to
communicate that. Yeah, I don't even know that I call it private. If you want to read 450 pages,
you can know what my worldview is public about it, but it's more nuanced than
the Christian views of atheists or the atheist view of Christians. So I'm not comfortable
settling for either one of those labels. But I do agree about the cognitive dissonance thing.
And in fact, I'm probably distrusting of anyone who is not aware of the cognitive dissonance
that they're living in, because we all are. And so anyone who's just not aware of it is probably
less safe than the people who, who do know it as my current hypothesis. So I feel more at home
with people who are like, yeah, we all live differently than we say that we believe in we,
yeah, yeah, maybe that's the right one. So those, those are the kind of people like,
okay, cool, as long as we both know that we don't know very much, and that includes ourselves,
then I feel safe to continue conversation. But anyway, the, the wiping the slate clean thing,
if we're good to go back to that. So do you know the Chesterton's fence analogy thing?
Okay, cool. So then I don't either, but I'm going to give you my version of it. So
it goes something like if you come across a fence in the middle of nowhere, the liberal view is,
hey, this fence isn't serving a purpose, let's tear it down. And the conservative view is,
before we tear it down, let's figure out what it is here for, because it might,
there might be unintended consequences of tearing this thing down, maybe this serves a good purpose.
And so what do you do with the fence? And that's kind of like,
defines the liberal and conservative view of those things. So as far as wiping the slate clean,
I feel like our species has reinvented this character so many times. And it's so similar
each time that I feel like it would be a, take a great deal of hubris for me to go,
oh, all of my species has apparently felt like they needed this thing, but I don't. I'm smarter
than that. And so I'm going to get rid of God, because obviously God doesn't exist. I don't think
Oh, so the thing that you talked about is God, like that people create.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm sorry. Right. I'm sorry. I didn't say that. Yes. Yes. I mean, the number of
God's, God narratives that we have that are almost exactly the same thing. It seems like
our species has at least utilized this maybe for, definitely for evil purposes. Maybe that was the
intent behind it. I don't know. But I'm at this fence. And I'm at this thing, this God thing
that my species has spent a lot of energy and resources hanging on to. And there's no species
that hangs on to something that is that costly, unless it does some real good for them. Maybe.
I don't know. That's my current hypothesis. But so I'm not comfortable wiping the slate clean,
like, all right, let's start out. Let's, Jamie's going to figure out the universe. And then that's
going to go all right. That's probably not going to go all right. So I have a deep reverence for our
the heritage of this space. The heritage doesn't seem like a long enough word.
The inheritance I've gotten of divine, sacred, holy, these words that I feel like do a better
job of describing the experience of being a human than the the terms that describe what I think is
actually going on. So like, for example, let's take one of them. We get we all get together and we
we all sing together. We make that we heart we cause our vocal chords to create frequencies
that match the other frequencies that we hear. And for some reason, for almost all humans,
that experience is deeply moving. That's weird. What the hell is going on there? That shouldn't be.
And religions have taken this and turned it into, you know, worship songs or chants or whatever it
is. And because they've they've realized there's some great power here that's going this happening
that we don't really understand where it is. And so the atheists goes, well, yeah, I mean,
because you're a communal species and whatever, and they've got like a definition of like, well,
here's all the reasons that we would have done this and why it feels important, even though it's
not really important. And I just feel like to call that experience holy, to sing with someone,
to be that vulnerable, to be in that intimate experience with another human, divine or holy
or sacred describes my experience a lot better than anything else. And those are all religious
terms. So I feel like I'm kind of stuck now, because the religions describe my human experience.
But the scientists describe the scientists better predict the future than the religions. And so
yeah, there's just a huge difference. That's interesting, because, because I think I agree
for the most part that, like, this is how I view it. So I look at, so if I was to look at that
problem, I look at the like, I guess, not we won't say heritage, but whatever the word is,
that we get an heritage of the history of humanity, like, having these God concepts.
Yep. I look at that and go, okay, the evidence will not be evidence, but what we have is we have
I guess humanity creating these God concepts that are good and bad for society, like the
great organizing society, the great it, giving people purpose, meaning in their lives.
So I know there's a utility to it there. Okay, I look at this and go, okay, so what does this
tell us? Like, so it tells us, yeah, go. Sorry. Well, just whatever list we come up with, you
and I together of the utilities of religion, I'm not, I don't feel confident that there's a whole
lot longer lists that you and I aren't even aware of or thinking of or could come up with. Okay, cool.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, of course, like, I'm not saying, yeah, I'm not saying like that this is an
exhaustive case, but this is where I'm trying to build the case in my mind of what, what you're
kind of saying. And what I imagine what you're kind of saying, how I would develop this, I guess,
thought. So I look at this and go, okay, so there's this important thing, and we're looking at this
important thing, which is God and religion. And it's been important, but like, how does,
just because it's been around for so long, and it's something that humans do, does that add any
validity to, I guess, the, the underlying ID behind those things. So I would then, you know,
test it and go, okay, well, humanity likes to eat together, humanity likes to sing songs together.
Humanity likes it. Like there's all these things that humanity does, but that doesn't
necessarily mean that there's something, I guess, behind it. Like if there was like,
if there was this like idea that humanity sung together, because we've all got little
aliens inside of us that you'd like to sing. And then it's like, well, that's evidence of these
little aliens that like to sing inside of everyone. I would go, well, I don't know if that's the case.
So I think that, so then I'll look at this and go, okay, so what can this tell us that
humanity has decided to like, like creating stories, likes to worship, like idols and gods,
and create rituals and stuff. I just, I look at that as just part of the human condition and go,
that's, I guess, all we can really say about that. So then to me, that then doesn't add any credence
to the idea that there's any validity behind these, these gods in a, I don't know if this is
right way, but metaphysical, like tangible real world way. It's maybe that it's like this, I guess,
the same way I would imagine Jordan Peterson is a Christian. It's like, you know, it's like,
it's like, okay, he likes it. Like, and he likes the ideals and likes the concepts, but he doesn't,
I don't think he actually believes that, like, Jesus raised from the dead or, you know,
yeah, I don't know. So, so, so, I guess that's where that's, that's where it leads me is I go,
okay, I can see these things are important, but I just don't know if they point to truth. And that
was the same. So that was one kind of example that you brought up, but, and you've got, and you've
also mentioned, sorry, that you've got these like, these words that you associate with those experiences,
so like, holy or, or, and, but aren't they just a construct of, I guess, your understanding of
those words through your subjective experience of being a human. So like, if you grew up, and you,
you, you familiarize yourself with the word bling blong, and that was the word you used for
that experience, you would go, well, bling blong is the word that I use, like, isn't that
yeah, it just seems to me rather subjective. And that's fine. Like,
right. But I think I, I think I totally agree with you here. The, the fact that there's a
feeling that goes with this thing, and there's a description of it, that feels better than the
actual description of it. None of that means that any of the facts of any religion is right.
All it means is I, I like the feeling of these words over here better than the feelings of these
words over here. But I, I personally think that matters. So my analogy that I feel is probably
lacking, but I haven't found a better one yet, is love. Like, so, like, love isn't, isn't real.
Like, it's true love, you know, the thing, like the Christian thing of like, well, God created
one person for you to be with. And, you know, if you follow his will, then you're going to be,
you know, just follow, follow Jesus, and he'll bring you to the right person at the right time,
the person he prepared for before the earth was formed, all those, all those, you know, the
things that we tell the teenagers to make sure they don't have sex with each other.
So, you know, so all that stuff. So that's, that's not real. And like the level below that of like
the Cinderella thing of like, well, if you find the right person, there's not one person God picked
out for you, but if you find the right person, you'll live happily ever after. Like, well,
that's not, that's not gonna happen either. And so then when you ask yourself, well, what do we
actually know about love? The answer is like, well, like, not much. The, it's entirely possible that
it's just these chemicals that are floating around. There's hormones, there's oxytocin,
there's, you know, all this other stuff. And that love isn't real, like what it's just, it's just
all mating chemicals. And that's where it came from. I've got six kids. I love them.
You can't convince me that I don't. And I don't believe in love. But I definitely love them.
I get what you're saying. Is art real? You know what I mean? Is art real?
Yeah. Okay. Art isn't real, but art is real. Right. Yeah.
Clip, that's a sensor dump. It all sounds dumb here. Like, I believe I live, I live as though I
believe in love, even though in this back to the whole thing of like, the contradiction in your,
in your head, like, I don't believe in love, but I live as though love is real, because it is a
better heuristic for me than the facts that I have of this experience. And so if I live as
though love is real, my life goes better than if I like commit hard to know, but love isn't real.
And I live that way. My life is going to suck. And so I live as though it's real. And I feel like
there's something like that in religion. It doesn't have to be Jesus or Buddha, or like,
it doesn't have to be Muhammad. It doesn't have to be any of those. But, but what?
No, I, well, unless you have something to finish on that, but I agree with you. I, like,
I think there is something to religion. In fact, I was talking to Stacey the other day,
the other week, and apostasy. And, you know, she, she misses worship music. There's something about,
I mean, a lot of Christians, ex-Christians hate worship music, but there's something about,
like, coming together and singing these songs all in unison, directed at a single cause.
It's the same with, you know, I get very emotional or very filled with awe and excitement. When I
look at the night sky, when I have my glasses on, because I've gotten bad in my old age. But,
you know, like, when I look at the massiveness of the universe, or even, like, I was young
with creationists, and when I started learning about evolution, I felt like a real, I would say,
spiritual feeling. Yes. Realizing that we were all, this life is so precious and so brutal and so
scary. And, like, and something that, like, helped me, I guess, get over the death of a loved one,
wasn't, you know, thinking about that, that they were in heaven anymore, or anything like that. It
was learning that elephants mourn the death of their dead in their group. They'll travel for
miles and miles and miles and then come back the next year and stand around the place where the
the old elephant has died. And it's like, not even, not even elephants can escape this, like,
feeling of loss and pain. And that made me feel so at one with, I guess, everything. I felt so,
it felt spiritual. Yes. If you ask me, like, if it's like, if you ask me what that means from,
like, an objective standpoint, it's like trying to explain art or trying to, like, mathematically
work out music. I mean, there probably is a way to actively work out music, but, you know, I mean,
like, it's different parts of the brain. Yeah. Well, and as a musician, like, this is,
this is one of my favorite things is, like, the definition of what's happening. Like, I could tell
you how many vibrations per second. I can tell you how many overtones in a, yeah, I can tell you
why a violin sounds like a violin and why a piano sounds like a piano. And I could analyze the song.
But in the end, like, it doesn't really matter. Like, does the song grip you or not? And none,
none of that definition really matters. So I guess that's where we can connect on the art thing.
It's like, it, there's, there's only spiritual terms to describe the experience. And none of your,
like, numbers of hurts or beats per minute or any of these calculations really matter, even though
a song isn't a real thing outside of the scientific definitions of them,
but the experience is way different than the definition. So we have to go ahead.
No, no, go, go finish what you're saying. I think we have to live as, live with that,
trying to balance those two of like, it's, it's okay. It's, it's back to that
dogmatism that John talked about at the beginning. Like, if, if you're going to hold on to love,
isn't real, and you're just going to, that's going to be your thing, and you're not going to let this
in, that's, that's going to suck. If you're going to hold on to, but art isn't real, it's just,
it's all frequencies. And you're all crazy that you're interpreting music, like you're going to
miss out on art. And I think that perhaps for a large percentage of the, of my species,
there's something there for divinity too, and, and science or whatever you want to put in opposition
to it. Yeah, I think I can, I think I can get on board, I guess, for the most part of what you're
saying. I really can, because I think that there's, well, I would just describe it as like the
subjective or objective, like things that we can measure. And even objective things that we can
measure are based on our understanding of other things that we think are objective. And sometimes
they change, but for the most part, we like, can make determinations of what's true and what's not
true. Sure. I mean, it's a game we play. We, we try to, but I think that our, we've always been
really impressed with how much we know now. And we've always been really shocked at how stupid
the people just before us were. And now, now we're, now we're smart. Now we got it figured out. I
think we know nothing. I think we know, that's, that's almost, almost true. Oh, we know almost
nothing. We're at, we're close to zero percent, we're so much closer to zero percent than we are
to one percent of what there is, it's knowable. It's a fun game to play. I mean, go find, find
stuff out. I'm not saying it's, it's a worthless pursuit. It might be the only worthwhile pursuit.
But also, like us thinking that, oh, well now, now we know, now we know the list of things that
God was doing for us, that this religion stuff was doing. So now we can get rid of it safely.
I'm back at Chesterton's fence going, are you sure that's the complete list? Are you sure this
fence isn't doing something else here? I mean, if it's, if it's causing us harm, we, I don't,
I don't think that we should hang on to the parts that are obviously dangerous. But getting rid of
it seems, it just, that would worry me. And I'm not, I'm not a Christian. I'm not religious. I
don't, I don't go to church. So I'm not advocating for anyone to jump into religion. I just think
that for someone to say, we don't need God, we don't need religion. I'm with Nietzsche on that
one. Like that's a dangerous proposition. You better, you better be damn sure that you know
what you're doing. And I don't think you do. Okay, we might, I might disagree with you there,
but I'm not, I don't want to go down that path. I want to actually find, I want to actually
talk a little bit about the harmful things that you did, I guess, discover in your journey.
Because we're only 45 minutes in. This has been really interesting so far. So,
so I guess, give us the, give us the, the, the list of things that you discovered in your process
of your reluctant deconstruction, that you were like, Oh, this isn't good. I don't think this
works anymore. What did you find? I mean, the more than I'm going to be able to remember,
there's like literally, like when I said, it's like 200 pamphlets in the book. It's like, you've
taken a look at the book. It's like a page or two for each thing. And then like, well, here's
the thing on Nicodemus. And here's the thing on prayer. And here's the thing on like, and it's
just like, if you got an answer for this, cool, but I think that this is why I can't believe in
this thing anymore. But some of the big ones, I mean, inerrancy of scripture, shoot, I mean, honestly,
the way that I've structured the book, I'm going to just assume no evangelicals have made it to
this point in the interview. So I'm going to go ahead and like, reveal a little bit the way the
book is structured. It lets people pull the ripcord on it, at whatever point they want. Because
the stuff at the end is like, Jesus maybe didn't exist. And he definitely wasn't the Son of God,
he doesn't have anything to do with, with God, except maybe like in this mystical, any more than
any other, you know, Buddha or Mahabharata, any of the rest of those guys. And there's a chance
that he doesn't even exist. So that's like at the very, very end of the book. So if you want to
give up before then, if you want to be like, hey, this James guy doesn't know what he's talking about,
he's just a heretic, and keep your religion, then cool, I don't throw that on you at the beginning
of the book. But it's kind of set up like, here's some problems with like church authority, right?
And so here's here are the reasons that, like throughout our history, throughout Christian
history, we just keep changing what we say that God says, and we keep being sure, I mean,
it's kind of like the science thing that I was talking about. So I go, we keep being sure that
now we've pretty, pretty much got, I mean, we're a little, maybe a little bit messed up, we might
be a little bit surprised, but we've pretty much got this God thing figured out. And when, when
you go back in history, like, there's nowhere in history, that you could take any modern,
you take the number one, like, most Christian pastor that you could find on the planet today,
taken back 200 years and say, here you go, drop you on earth, good luck, go find a church that
you can fit into, that won't throw you out, he doesn't have anywhere to attend, they all throw
him out. Because there's no one who believes, who's willing to accept that, I mean, blacks are the
same as whites, or that women are the same as men, or that slavery is bad. There's nothing he can say
in the Christian world, that doesn't get him thrown out of a church. And that's true no matter,
you take any Christian from any point in history, and drop them on the planet at any other point
in Christian history, and there's nowhere that they can attend church, because everyone thinks
that they're heretic. So that thing of, like, Christian authority, like, and these are the guys
that, like, like, the message is constantly, oh, no, no, no, we figured it out now. And then,
like, a day later, they're like, no, no, wait, I'm sorry, starting now, now we've got it right. Oh,
wait, no, now, it's just so irritating. And they, they pretty much say that, like, if you go back
and, like, read their writings, they, they frequently are like, oh, yeah, okay, but starting now,
you have to go to, if you don't go to church, if you're not fellowshiping with believers,
then you're not really a part of the body of Christ, and you're not going to go to heaven.
And then they're like, okay, that was a bad, that was, that was the bad, I mean, it's just
constant. And so that's kind of like the first part is like, okay, so church authority, these guys,
the chances that right now, now they're right, probably not, right. And so that's kind of like
the first thing is like church authority, you're gonna have to find, figure out some of this stuff
on your own. And then it goes through the other stuff of like, you know, the inerrancy of the Bible.
I think I go through heaven and hell first, because that's like, people can give up heaven
and hell, people like to give up hell, hell's really inconvenient. So we go through hell and,
you know, so trying to give up these things one at a time. And as soon as you feel like you
can't take it anymore, then you can, you know, call me and ask for a refund or whatever, because
I don't, I'm not wanting to wreck anyone's beliefs. But frankly, if I'm really honest,
from what I've found, I'd love to be proven wrong. I don't, I don't think Jesus had anything to do
with God. But I still think I'm a Christian.
It's funny, because you said at the start that you've kind of been, have you been ostracized a
little bit by the evangelicals? Yep. I'm sorry. I shouldn't laugh like that. I laugh at the question,
not at the situation. The situation is, I haven't talked with my parents since April of 2020. So
it's been, at this point, we're going on four years. And I don't think, I think there's probably a
good chance that we'll never talk again. Oh my God. And that's my brother and my parents.
And then my former Christian friends from that place, it's been about as long since I've talked
to them. So yeah, summer of 2020 sucked. And it was, you know, super, super depressing and
suicidal and junk like that. And that's all the part of that. Like, that's not, that's not in the
book, because that's all autobiographical. And I tried to split it up so that I'm not telling my
personal story. This is just theological. Like, here's, here's my problems with Christianity.
But yeah, to say I've been ostracized is accurate. That's fair. That's, I see, I was just going to
make a witty joke about that you've been Rob Bell, because you're mentioning. Oh, yeah, right. How
he was like ostracized. But that's, that's actually, that's way worse than I imagined. I thought a
few people in church would just like, because your book isn't like, yeah, the problem is, is you're
not, you're not writing God is not great. So you're not like the, the atheists aren't like, yeah,
like, but you're also not writing, I don't know, the 10 best ways to grow your prosperity is the
evangelicals. So you kind of, you're kind of hated by both sides in a little way. I hate it,
but like, do you kind of have beef? Well, again, like, it's, it's a kind of a nuanced position.
And I can, I have compassion. I think I'm, yeah, I think I've got some compassion for both sides.
The church has done a lot of damage. That is not stated nearly as strongly as I would want to say.
The church almost is damage historically. So the people who say there's, there's nothing
to be salvaged here. And it's all been controlling and evil since it was born 2000 years ago. Like,
you're not wrong. So anyone who's like, but Christianity, like I still want to call myself
Christian, I understand their problem with that perspective. And so I've got, I've got some
compassion for people who dislike my stance on Christianity from the atheist perspective.
But then from the Christian perspective, I mean, I was there for 40 years. I understand the fear
and the pity, the condescension for atheists. And for anyone who would dare, I mean, the things
I've said in this interview already would disqualify me for heaven from my former perspective. So
I understand like, and the only reason they could imagine that I would do that is because
I want to, to sin. And I, so I've given up Christianity. So I'm, I'm free to drink alcohol
that I can't drink or whatever it is that I'm wanting to do. You know, and so I've got some
compassion for that too. Like, I remember thinking that, and I know there's nothing I can do to
convince you otherwise. And so that's just where that's where you live is that that's what you
that's what you have to believe about me. And so those aren't the people that I hang out with.
Let me ask you then. I was, what's your favorite sin? That's the, that's the,
how I opened last week's episode, because everyone leaves Christianity because they want to sin.
But have you noticed that that was not what's for sin, but have you noticed
like your, I guess, morality change at all? Like what things that are important to you,
not important deconstructing? Yeah. What are those things? Yeah. I think John Steinbeck said,
now that you don't have to be perfect, now you can be good or something like that.
Like I'm so much, the story you told is a great microcosm of I think what happens for a lot of
deconstructionists in that. And again, I don't know, like there's a whole like deconstructionist
history and I'm not trying to associate with that. I don't mean official. I just mean like people who
saw things that they couldn't unsee and learned things they couldn't unlearn and
things fell apart for them. That's what I mean by deconstructionists.
You know, the thing that you said about the elephants, like as a Christian, you don't have
those moments with nature really, because nature is just a expression of God. That's God expressing
himself to you. So when you see the elephants, you can't see elephants. All you can see is if
there is beauty there to be, to be old, it is Jesus and God and your Trinity and the Christian
story. Everything that is beautiful has to hold the Christian narrative. And so there's no appreciating
in my experience. This doesn't have to be true for everybody. There's no appreciate,
truly appreciating nature or anything beautiful, even your family outside of, outside of like
seeing it as an expression of Christianity. And so then you like see that and at some point,
like it hits you like, damn, these, these elephants, like this is, this is me. They're
doing the same thing I would do. They're feeling the same thing I would feel. You're feeling empathy
for them and you're realizing these guys are me. I'm connected to these guys with just a slight
change in the branch of evolution. I'm there. That's, that could have been me. And all of a sudden,
I care about elephants in ways that I've never cared about elephants before. And I wonder,
how come when I was in the religion that held all of the truth about all of morality,
I didn't care about things nearly to the degree that I care about them now. Like that's frustrating.
I was supposed to be more loving there. And yet I find myself not compelled. Like then I was
compelled because I wanted to, I wouldn't have said earn something, but the truth was like,
I wanted to be a good Christian. I wanted to shine my lights with other people would become
Christian. And you know, all the things, there are reasons that I want to be good. And now I'm
just compelled to be good because I've got so much compassion, so much empathy for all of my fellow
universe, really, my fellow beings. And so there's just so much more natural morality
that like that I live in. And I'm like, I don't, I don't, I don't want that. Like I wanted this
with my Christianity. And when my Christianity fell apart, what I found underneath was morality.
And I thought that's what I thought that was the only place morality was found. So yeah,
like I, I think it's not an uncommon experience that former Christians become much more moral people
because they've got new reasons to do it. And it sucks. Like this is, this is what I was aiming
for. I wanted to be the perfect loving thing. But and I had the God of love. But as it turns out,
I didn't, I had, I had Christianity. And that doesn't have much to do with the God of love,
the way that it's done almost all the time. I just, I can relate to that so much. I have
so many moments where, where when I, in my deconstruction, I cared, started caring about
things that I, that I would never have cared about. Like, like I felt like I became more moral.
You know, there were things that I, I guess I had become more immoral from a Christian's perspective.
Like, I guess I, I don't know, like a swarm or maybe like, there's not many other things that,
oh, no, I having a channel where I drink alcohol is probably, yeah, right. But you talk a little
bit about hell in your book. And I read parts of those chapters. And you, you have this quote,
I'm going to quote you in from your book. And this, this quote is amazing. So let me just
read it. No civilization has been foolish enough to make the law, make a law that says criminals
won't receive any punishment until they're 80, at which point, all of their past crimes will be
harshly punished in a batch trial. But even that inhumane system might serve as a deterrent to some
who saw the punishment of an octo, oh my gosh, octo, octogenarian, yes, and choose to minimize
their future consequences. Christianity system is infinitely worse, where the punishment of all
humanity gets batched together after humanity is done. After we, after we no longer have civilization,
God cleans up civilization. After no more evil can take place, he deters evil. After we, we no
longer need protection, he locks away all the bad guys. But it's not just that, it's not just
too little too late, it's worse than that. If even one sin gets you cast out of God's presence
forever, that would mean that the judge is handing out the same sentence to all offenders.
But it's not just lazy justice, it's worse than that. If he is punishing a, a finite amount of
evil with an infinite amount of suffering, that would be injustice. And I mean, that's profound,
like that's, that's really profound. I never considered the fact that the little girl who dies
unrepentant of her, of the hatred she feels towards her rapist would go, would be punished at the same
level as Hitler or someone just as evil. They're both sent to the same place with the same torment
forever. That is crazy. The person with unforgiveness towards someone who's created a harsh crime
and literally the worst person I can think of.
Yeah, right. Well, and I feel like this is the history of the church is people bring up stuff
like that. And the church goes, Oh, wait, okay, wait, hang on. That can't be right. Okay, so
purgatory, there we go. And this is how purgatory came about, as I understand it. It's like, okay,
so purgatory, because God, God wouldn't send the little girl and the, and Hitler to the same place
for the same punishment. That's not just so, so we're gonna do purgatory. And purgatory is where
people like burn off the lighter sins, so that eternal damnation is just for the hitlers.
Like, okay. How did you come up with that? Like, you just made that up right now,
because you didn't like the conclusions of what you had said before. And there's no like,
there's no basis for any of it. It's just a like a system that someone asked a question,
what about this thing? And then like, okay, so you got to like put a little stint in that to
like prop that up. That's not a stint, whatever that is. And then like, okay, but this thing's
falling over. And then we propped that up, and then we propped that up. And then the whole thing
altogether, that's just propping up, propping up, propping up. That's Christendom. That's
the theology is like, Oh, well, we have to believe this, because if we don't believe this,
then this thing falls over. And so it has to be this way. God must have made it this way,
even though the Bible doesn't say that. There's no revelation of this. It's just,
it's something that obviously has to be, because if that's not true, then this thing falls down,
and we're not willing to let that thing fall down. And so that's where like, the title comes in,
like if I'm really honest, like that seems made up. And I think that other thing would fall over
because you guys didn't, you guys didn't think of purgatory until someone pointed out the little
girl in Hitler, and then you made it up. Yeah. Are there are there things that you consider like
you won't let fall over? I mean, this is this is the whole thing of like,
getting in trouble on both sides now. Sorry. No, that's fine. But I feel like a lot of atheist
viewers feel like I'm propping up the whole thing, all the way back to Chesterton's fence.
Like I was arguing to not let this thing fall down. And then the Christians ask,
is there anything that you won't let fall down like? I don't know. Okay, so things that won't
let fall down. Like, just my honesty, I think that's the only thing that I really have. If I'm
really, really honest, then I'm going to make the atheists hate me because I think the religious
terminology describes the experience, not, and why say religious terminology, I don't mean
Judeo-Christian terminology. I just mean the universal, you take the average of the religions
out there. There's a lot in common. And those things seem to describe the experience of being
human and connecting with something bigger than me, better than your other definitions
that I agree are true. You're right about the art. It's just frequencies, and it's all stupid.
But that doesn't describe the art that I, the feeling that I have when I play the piano. So
you're right. You win. And also, I'm gonna go play the piano and have fun and pretending that it's
art. And so there's no, the answer is no, there's nothing that I won't let fall down. But
there's nothing, if I'm honest, I don't, there's nothing that I need to hold up. Like, there's,
it's a, it's a bit absurd. Yeah, I'm at a loss for words now to describe.
No, I like what you said there, because I think I'm the same in that I, honesty is the only thing
I guess I wouldn't, like, I think you need to start from with honesty. You need to be honest
with, like, yourself, you need to be honest with others. You need to be honest in order to try and
get to any truthful worldview. Be dishonest if you want. Like, you know, when you forget to,
when you scan some, some cheese at the self checkout and say it's onions. And then they ask you,
you know, go lie and tell them, Oh, it's a mistake, whatever. But when you're investigating truth,
when you're investigating truth, I think you need to be honest. Like, you need to be
honest with yourself, honest with, yeah. And the most uncomfortable part of that is,
I don't know, like, if I'm really honest, I don't know if, if my, if my daughter asked me,
is love real? Like, baby, I don't know. And if she's like, well, you know, I'm going to explain
to her what the, what my current view is, if her attention span will allow it. But then,
like, if she goes on from there and she's like, well, I think that, that, you know,
half of that is silly and true love is real. I'm going to, I'm going to go pursue true love.
Like, I'm going to be like, okay, like that's, you're pursuing something is real. Also, I think
that's going to go badly for you. But, you know, that's your choice. And if she goes the opposite
direction is like, Oh, well, then love obviously isn't real. This whole thing was pointless. I'm,
I don't believe in love anymore. Like, yeah, I think that's right too. And I think that's going
to go badly for you. So, but that's up to you. Like you can live either way. And for me, holding
both of them is gives me a more fulfilling life. And so I don't know if it's true or not, but it
works kind of. If you could give yourself advice at the start of this whole journey,
what advice would you give yourself? None, none. That's got to be the right answer.
I feel like my personality was destined for this. If I had not grown up in the environment
that I grew up in, if I'd not been, if I'd not been on the path that I was on,
then I would have gotten to this point a lot earlier. And I'm, I'm a bit jealous of people who,
because I spent 40, 39 years pretty deeply in this stuff. And so now, now I'm halfway, halfway done
with this experience. Perhaps if I'm lucky, get another 40, probably I'm more than 50%
through this. And then I'm just now like, Oh, okay, I don't have to do this big long list of things
that I thought I had to do. So I'm jealous of the people who like figured out earlier. But I don't,
I think I was just going to keep asking, but isn't this weird? I was going to keep coming back to
that and keep asking for answers and eventually something like I was going to start to get answers
and I was going to come to these conclusions. So I don't think there's anything if I can go back
to, you know, invest in Apple or something. But as far as,
no, I don't, I don't think there's another way through it. And I honestly don't wish this on
anyone. I don't know that, um, guys, I don't know if this next statement is true, but I came up,
I'm going to go, go with it for now. There's a chance that my life would have turned out
more comfortably, let's say, if I had not left the religion and if I had just stayed in it and
never pursued the answers to these questions, that might have been in some respects, a better life.
It's not a life that I would want to live now in the same way that like, if you believe in the
Tooth Fairy forever, you never have to go through the pain of like losing the Tooth Fairy. And that's
cool. But then like no one who knows that the Tooth Fairy isn't real would like, would want to go
back into that. And that's, I guess, like that old, the matrix thing of like, do you want to get
plugged in back into the matrix or something like that. So I think, I think there's a way in which
I could agree that my life would have been better if I hadn't left Christianity. And also, I would
completely agree that this was way better than Christianity. There's a lot of unfortunate loss
in there. So I don't know, I don't really wish this on anybody. I wouldn't wish this on a younger
version of myself. I don't know that I would have been able to handle it. I don't know that I am
handling it now. So I don't know. It's, I am where I am. And so I'll take it from here.
There's that Henry David Theroux quote, rather than love, than money, than fame, give me truth.
And it's kind of paraphrased in the movie, Into the Wild, which is where I first heard it.
And then it kind of like adds extra things like rather than convenience, rather than happiness,
rather than joy, rather than contentment, give me truth. And that was like kind of this
subliminal underpinnings of my deconstruction is, is I was willing to pay the price of having
a life that was harder by knowing the truth. Because there's a great deal of, I agree with you,
there's a great deal of convenience, being part of a community and knowing, thinking you have the
truth, rather than going out and investigating and finding that we don't have answers to a lot of
the big questions. Where did life start? Or how did life start? Sorry. You know, how, why did the
universe start at all? The big bang? So yeah, it's a very uncomfortable feeling.
Yeah. And there's a lot of those quotes that are like really cavalier. And I don't feel,
I feel like those are the kinds of quotes where everyone would, would agree with them,
but then living them again, like that experience. Like, don't be so cavalier. Like truth might not
be the great thing that you think it is. It's not going to comfort you. It's not going to,
it's not going to hold you and, and take care of the things that you care about.
It's all it's going to do is be truth. And so it, I think most people, it feels very
brave, heartish to be like, yeah, no matter what happens, like, I just care about the truth.
Like, maybe not. Maybe not. Yeah. Don't, yeah. Don't go down that, that path too, too eagerly.
So has your, has your family life changed at all? Like, did you guys go to church all the time? And
now you don't go to church? Or do you still go to church? Like, how is your relationship like
with your partner? Like, you don't have to get into like the, the exact details, everything,
but like, how is that fared through this whole process? Yeah. Okay. The, so yeah, our life is
different in that I used to give everything to the church. And ours was a particularly
controlling church that is known, I think by everyone who used to attend it as a cult. And
because I'm just the A-hole that I am, I named my, my blog about that church almost a cult,
because like, once again, like, be careful about your, like, you, you write things off with these
labels. And it's not, it's not going to serve you as well as you think. So anyway, I hold it as
almost a cult. But yeah, so we, we like gave everything to that, to that place. And in the end,
it was more damaging than it was good, probably by a long shot. And so, yeah, now, now we don't,
we don't currently go to church. There's a church that I really like, particularly like their music
that I could attend if I was free on a Sunday. But like, as soon as the preacher starts preaching,
like, and then he gets into talking about, you know, things that he's sure of, that he's trying
to convince his audience of, that I just, I just can't get myself there. You know, again,
not to be disrespectful, probably there aren't any Christians watching at this point. But, you know,
like, like if, if I had a few Christians make it, okay, well, good for them. I, then they won't,
they probably won't be offended by this. But like, it'd be, you know, similar to like, if I, if I
went to a really good concert, and then they got up and like, give an altar call for Santa, like,
yeah, or about did you go to like a Metallica concert and then like James does like a 45
minute like talk about like, I don't know, it could be anything, environmental science. You're
like, Oh, can you just play Master of Puppets, please? Like, right? Yeah. And that's the way,
I think that's the way most people feel when they, when they go on those rent. So that's,
that's kind of how I feel at church. Like, everyone's gathering to feel great about this
speech that I just, I don't feel great about. And so I, I don't really go. And then my wife,
she's, I mean, she's got her own journey. We're very different emotional beasts. So she,
she seems to have made her piece less spectacularly than I have. She's like,
she seems to have come to a pretty content place. And this is my interpretation of her
experience. So this isn't her experience. But she seems pretty content, like, Oh, yeah,
those were really important experiences in my life. And they were based on something
that isn't real, but the experiences were real. And so I'll value those experiences,
they served me in the moment. And now I don't need them anymore. And once again, I'm jealous.
It's so annoying, because that's like, that's like my wife as well. It's like, it was just very
much like, that's not real. Okay, like, do you want some cheeseboard? She's like cutting up
like things. Yes. Like it was just like, for me, it was like, it's all consuming. I started the
podcast talking about it. You know what I mean? Like, it's like, what do you mean? This is like,
you know, and then Amy's just kind of, I guess, like not just not to like undermine it,
because it was it would have been a big process for Amy and everything as well. But
but it's like, I guess the way that it's like, like Amy has definitely just left it, been able
to like leave it and not like think too much about it, or just get on with her days. It's,
it's, it's actually admirable. It's annoying. But it's admirable. That sounds very familiar.
Yeah. Yeah. So your last chapter, if I'm remembering correctly, is living honestly.
That's the last chunk of the book, which is the book. Yeah, it's kind of a summary of a of another
book. Because there's kind of three books in one. The beginning part is Dear Evangelicals,
which is going to be its own book that doesn't get into like, I'm, it's very like, you could read
it as a Christian and end up a Christian. So there's no like danger to it. It's just like,
here's, here's some nice things to think about deconstructions. Here's some ways to keep them
in your church and keep them tithing instead of hating them and accusing them and, you know,
all that stuff. So then there's this, this main book is like, if I'm really honest, here's some
stuff that I can't believe anymore. And then the last part of the book is a summary of a book
that's going to be Finding God Despite Religion, which is more about like, now that I'm not in
that, and I can't believe that here's my current journey to move on. And I think that's the part
that you're talking about is living honestly. It's just like, yeah, it's, it's a, so now,
so now what do we do now that we're not doing that anymore? Yeah, so that's, that's what I was
going to ask you is what do you do? Yeah, stuff like this, right, right at 450 page book. And I
like, live compassionately. I mean, if there is, for me, at least, where I currently stand,
that's what was really missing in my religious experience. That's where I was being merely
religious and not sacred is the lack of compassion that I think Christianity inherently has doesn't
necessarily have to have, but inherently has for non believers. And so the things you were
describing about the elephants, like that, there's, there's so many of those. For me, the the sun rises
and sunsets, and this just sounds stupid to me coming out of my mouth. But like, I, I commune
with the sunrise and sunsets so deeply. Now, like, when I see a sunset, like, regardless of what
happened today, you did your best, maybe you didn't do your best, maybe you spent the day
just bitter and hardening your heart as the Christians would say, becoming a worse person
today. But whatever, like the day's done, like, we're all going to take a nap and you're going to
wake up tomorrow and you get to try again. And it doesn't matter what you did today, because the sun
doesn't remember, and the world doesn't remember, you're just going to get up and you're just going
to, you're just going to do something new. So you're forgiven or good job or whatever you need
at the end of the day, but take a nap and get up tomorrow and, and be a better Jamin than you were
today, if you can, or be a worse Jamin, whatever. So like the sunset is like, this is, I, I, there's
so many Christian principles that are in there about confessing your sins and about forgiveness
and about trying again and restoration and atonement. And like, there's just so, so much
stuff that's wrapped up in like that experience of the sunset for me, like, okay, yeah, thanks.
It doesn't matter if I, if I screwed up today, that doesn't have any bearing on my, my potential
for goodness tomorrow. And then the sun rises, you know, in the moon, they all have their
equally stupid experiences for me. They're just beautifully sacred. I've got a hummingbird feeder
on my front porch that is bringing, brought me more divinity than all of my Christian experiences
combined. And I don't say that lightly, or flippantly, I like literally, it's the same thing
like your elephants thing, like just like, like, that's me. That's me. Like he, like a dude is
struggling and he's, he's looking for something he's trying not to die constantly. And he's just
gorgeous. And he doesn't even know it. And he's flying around and he's trying to, and, and I can
help him out a little bit. Like I can, I can give him something to drink and also appreciate his beauty.
Like, that's me. Thanks, thanks for, thanks for showing me a part of me that I wasn't thinking of.
You're beautiful. Good luck out there. Were you, were you the, were you the kind of Christian who
would take a photo of a sunset or have a photo of a sunset and put like a little psalm in the bottom?
No, my space page. No, I mean, all the, for me, all that mattered was like, I wasn't into any of
that stuff. Because like, all that really matters is Jesus. So when you're even a true Christian,
then if you weren't posting psalms photos with the sun, if it has a verse, yeah,
that'll be anything. Sure. Yeah. Better if it has a cross in the background or a crown of thorns
than a sun, like a sunset without a cross. Like that's a wasted opportunity.
Yeah. I actually think, I used to think about this because I've always been a questioning person.
And I used to always bother me the, the, the photo of a sunset and you know, God's glory,
you know, or God creates this creation or whatever, psalmistic in the bottom right hand corner.
Because I was like, wait, so technically you could do the same thing with like a big spider,
like you could have a photo of like a big spider and go, God's creation. And so many people would
have a vitriol, people might even be upset that you would do something like that, that you would
post a psalm and, but that's equally God's creation, right? Tech, according to the Christian worldview.
So, you know, it just seemed, it just seemed to be like picking and choosing. But I think what
people are experiencing there is they're experiencing awe and wonder. And then they kind of redirect
it, well not redirect it, but they, they attribute it to God. And then that's what makes them feel
good. And so then when you come to a Christian and you say, you know, I remember asking a Christian
one some, you know, what would it look like if you didn't believe in God? And they couldn't even
fathom that, like, how could I even, they even said, how could they even answer such a question?
They couldn't even comprehend that because everything was attributed to God, you know,
their health, their, the beauty of the night sky, everything was attributed to God. So, yeah, it's
like, it's like such a pinnacle thing that, that would shatter their worldview. And I guess also,
I, I think that's a big part of why we, why we see, why I think we see so much dishonesty and
apologetics is because people are brought up in these worldviews and they will be, they think that
they will be earth shattering to remove this part of their worldview. And so then they have to engage
in motivated reasoning to make things work. And that's why you see people like Ken Ham or Kent
Hoven talk about what they talk about. And you're like, this is not, this is, you're making more
atheist than you're saving Christians. Like, uh, well, and Ken Ham has an Australian accent, which
adds to everybody. So, uh, so wait, do Australian accents, is that like, do we sound dumb to you
guys? Or do we sound smart to you guys? Or like, what, what sound way tougher to me? I don't know,
but maybe that sounds like a crocodile Dundee thing. I don't know. Maybe. Yeah. Yeah. More,
more, more intellectual, but I think almost any accent does more intellectual. I think so. I
don't know. It's like, it's almost British. I can't do an Australian accent because I always
end up just British. So they're like, I think subconsciously that they're very similar. I
don't know. Yeah, right. So, um, a question that I've got a little bit of a story and then I'll
ask one last question, but, um, part of my deconstruction like lines so much, so much
upward, something that you said. So, uh, when I was, um, when I went on our world trip,
I was like wanting to go into a world trip like, sorry, when I say world trip, I just
assumed you knew what I was talking about. My wife and I decided to travel, go to Japan and then
Europe and then Thailand. Cool. And then back home. Um, and we'd never been overseas before,
except for, I've been about a while too for submission trips and she'd been to, and we've
both been to New Zealand for, uh, our honeymoon. So we had never been to like drastically different
cultures or anything like that. Um, and I, I, I made the decision that I wanted to go into it with
an open mind. I wanted to, um, kind of embrace everything about it. I wanted to become worldly,
not in like a Christian, like worldly Christian way, but like I wanted to be like, you know,
I wanted to know things. And, um, we got to, uh, Sakasa in, um, Japan in Tokyo and we went up to
a shrine and I felt very conflicted, but I still went along with it to wash our hands
before we go in because that's like what you do out of respect. Right. And one of the shrines,
they were blowing smoke on their face. Like they had like incense, like there was like lots of
incense everywhere and guests would come up and they'd blow smoke in their face and then they
would walk off, um, into the temple and it was part of a, uh, asked and it was like part of a
purification thing. And, um, I thought of myself, are they really being cleansed? Like is something
actually happening in the spirit realm? Remember I was a Christian at the time and I was like,
and, and even if it wasn't, like if something wasn't happening
and you could prove it wasn't happening, would that matter? Like, I don't think it would.
And I like literally was like, I don't think it would matter at all. I think like if you could
like scientifically prove we had like a solo meter and the solo meter could prove that the
soul was not being cleansed by the smoke. I didn't think it would change. I think the,
the tradition would still continue. It wouldn't matter to a lot of people.
And then I was like, well, that's interesting. And this is just a thought that I had. And then
I thought, I wonder how many of my beliefs are like that, you know, things that are happening,
you know, and when you said, so this is a question you have at the start of the book,
if I could prove to you that Jesus wasn't God, would you want to know? And that, well, that's
first of all, how many, how many people have you asked that question who have actually
been able to answer? I mean, it's similar to saying like, if I could prove that gravity
wasn't real, would you want to know? Like everyone's gonna be like, yeah, bring it on. Like,
sure, go ahead, take, take your best shot, because no one thinks that it's, it's really possible.
So it's hard, it's hard to warn Christians enough about what information is out there,
because they don't think that it exists. So like it never lands. But I, for my, for my own conscience,
I feel like I have to be honest about this stuff. Like you get into this stuff, and I can't help you
out. I don't have a way back to Christianity. If I did, I'd be a Christian. I don't have a way back.
So yeah, yeah, I know you pick under that rug, and then you can't not, you just have to pretend
that rug isn't like those cracks aren't there, and that would just be lying. Okay, well, this is a
question I like to ask people at the end of the conversation sometimes. And I think it'd be really
good for you. Because I'm going to ask you to answer this question, but I'm going to ask you not to
put it into your, I'm going to ask you to be more rigid. I don't want you to be like, yes,
and no, in a way, you know, just for fun, just for fun. Okay, just for fun.
So what is the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in?
The most plausibly true religion that I don't believe in?
Mm hmm.
Plausible sounds so rational. So what I want to say is none of them.
I don't think any of them are even close to right.
I mean, there's something about pantheism that's like, it's so
nondescript that it's almost, it could almost satisfy something, but I don't know,
that's like asking which of the love experts really understands love.
None of them. It's not a real thing.
If I really wanted to say that there's a magic genie that pops out of a bottle,
and let's just, you've got to ignore the fact that it's a magic genie.
Yeah, and it's actually, let's say that chatGTV just knows everything about
everything and we ask it, you know, is there a true religion? And it says, yes,
I'm not going to tell you which one, but one of the religions in the world is 100% accurate,
and you have to choose which one it is. Which one do you think that possibly is?
Yeah, I'm going to go with something like pantheism or something that has like
consciousness in everything.
Yeah.
Is that an episode?
Yeah, that's kind of, I'll give you that, but if you have to choose a monotheistic religion.
If you had to, no, well, no, you can, you can choose like that, but like,
if you're going to be like pagan or polytheist, you'd say like I'm North pagan,
like you'd be more specific in regards to like Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, Islam, Christianity,
Judaism, Mormonism.
And we're talking about true, it being true, not just being practical,
because the Jainism is wonderful for peace, but I'm going to go with Buddhism for truth.
Okay. Yeah. All right. That's that's what everyone gives. Everyone gives Buddhism.
It's a reason it's stuck around for so long. It's hard to, it's hard to refute it.
Yeah, that's true. I mean, there's this Hinduism as well, but a lot of people,
I think feel like I feel like Buddhism is more accepted in the West than Hinduism.
I don't really know the difference, honestly.
Oh, you should read. I think you would, you know what, you might be read the Bhagavad Gita.
It's a, it's a Hindu text. Yeah. And, you know, people say, like, there are, there are scientists
or psychologists who say that it's actually symbolic for like the, the, the mind and everything.
It's really, it's a small book. You can read it. But it's about like Arjuna and Krishna standing
for a battle and, and like, and everything. But it's, it's the, the, let me just read.
So in my mind too, while you're looking that up, like Hinduism has a lot more defined gods than
Buddhism. And so in my mind, and this is probably just my, my own ignorance. Hopefully I'll be
smarter in a second than I was a second ago. But in my mind, like Buddhism does not like
put as much description on God. And then Hinduism's like, here's your, however many
gods that there are. And yeah, I don't even know if there is a God in, in Buddhism for different
sects. So, so I remember reading, I've told this story a hundred times, but I read, I listened to
this in Bali when I was like Durang poolside. And I felt like I had a spiritual experience. But
Well, then you did. That's the same sentence.
Oh, okay. Yeah. Okay. So this is just part of, this is part of chapter nine. Okay. So
Krishna is talking to Arjuna. And just, this just sounds, this just sounds so biblical to me
anyway. So he's talking to, so if I'm not correctly, Krishna has revealed himself to Arjuna and
he's explaining who he is. And he says, I am the ritual and the sacrifice. I am the true medicine
and the mantra. I am the offering and the fire which consumes it. And the one to whom it is
offered. I'm the father and mother of this universe. And it's grandfather too. I'm its
entire support. I am the sum of all knowledge, the purifier, the syllable om. I am the sacred
scriptures, the rig, yajur and some are Vedas. I'm the goal of life, the Lord and support of all,
the inner witness, the abode of all. I'm the only refuge, the one true friend. I am the beginning,
the staying and the end of creation. I'm the womb and the eternal seed. I am heat. I give and
withhold the rain. I'm immortality and I am death. I am what is and what is not. And it continues on,
but you read that and you're like, it's, I actually get, feel very spiritual because
I'm like, yeah, because I'm like, this was written 400 BC, I think it was. This is all stuff. And from
a very different part of the world than Jews. I found it beautiful, profound.
Yeah, I think I would want to take all of the eyes out and turn it into you or we. But if we
can do that, I've got the same sacred experience there, as what you described. Because the eyes,
the eyes I think is what messes up, which in that case, this is where my biblical training comes
back in. And the thing where Moses is like, hey, describe yourself a little bit. And God's like,
I am, I am. That's all you're going to get. The more you try to describe me, the less you're going
to understand me. That seems like a true statement. And so from that perspective, I'm on board for
that part of Exodus. I think the way I describe it is I find it amazing and beautiful and everything,
but I just don't think it's true. I don't think there is Krishna telling Arjuna. I don't think
that actually happened, but it's beautiful and amazing. And it's a great story. And there's
a possibility that it represents a truth that you couldn't represent. This is back into your
Jordan Peterson territory. I don't believe this is necessarily true, but it seems entirely possible.
Again, given my disrespect for our current level of knowledge, that I think that we're currently
really close to 0% of knowable things, there's a possibility that the only way to convey the
truth there is to make up a story and then let that be our heuristic for those things in the same
way that it wasn't that long ago, I think, that people believed in evil spirits. And if you were
sick, I wouldn't come visit you because I didn't want to get your evil spirit. Because we didn't
have germ theory, and we didn't understand how that stuff worked. And so if you don't have germ
theory, then one, you can be smart and know that spirits aren't a real thing and go visit your
friend anyway and end up dead. Or two, you can believe in something that doesn't exist that is
a better heuristic for something that is truer than what you currently have. And so in that
sense, I would encourage everyone of the time to believe in evil spirits because it's truer
than the actual true thing. The people who are saying there's no spirits, they're right.
But also, you've got something that's truer than that. And so then you get back into the debates
about what is truth and stuff like that. But I've got a lot of respect for
narratives. I think their narratives are more important to our species than
some atheists give us credit for it. But I don't know, I'm a piano teacher. I'm not a specialist
in this stuff. I don't know anything. I'm just trying to get through life is best for me.
Well, we have a couple of super chats. But first, one of the first comment on this stream
that I could see was podcast hash 108. That's a big number in Buddhism. So that's isn't that
interesting. There is a goal. Well, there is Buddha. Vitamir, of course, asked me to change
my intro. Davey Dave, just so everyone's wondering why it's called every day for the
10-dollar super chat. I killed Earl, 20-dollar super chat. Thank you so much for being a fabulous
human with the sincerest apologies. Have a drink on me. Cheers. So I think that I think she would
think you're an amazing human as well. But I think that's in reference to there was a show
that says she's gonna be on and they're rescheduling. And she's super trying to say thanks for that.
But what I will say is I killed Earl is starting a new channel and with some friends. And when I
have it, obviously, I'm on that channel. So that's going to be awesome to check out. And hang
for she. This is a question I was going to ask actually. Thank you for the five little super
chat. Top five songs about religion and where do you place have a day and three days by Jane's
addiction? I'm sorry. That's a question for me. Yeah. I don't know those songs. Okay. Well, let
me ask you let me ask. Well, I would want to point out that I was raised extremely fundamentalist
evangelical. I didn't know any secular music at all until I was embarrassingly old. So anything
that you're like, Oh, that's from his generation. It is. But I don't know any of it unless it's a,
you know, DC talk or Sonic Fledder. Any of the other embarrassing Christian titles from the 90s.
Yeah. Okay. So give us your top five worship bands of all time.
Back from back then, right? Yeah. Worship. Yeah. Okay. Well, I mean, they weren't worship,
but DC talk played a huge role. And then there was there was Delirious Man, Hill songs, of course,
everyone's yeah, shout to the Lord and shine Jesus shine from a darling check. See, these are
these are the names I know. Unfortunately. Oh, yeah, well, yeah, there's some
Yeah, that was a little bit later on. I was starting to be a little more rebellious by the
time they got some of the leaders there are friends of friends. And I don't
have any more to say about that. I've got a hate. I've got a I've got a such a hate for battle.
Not not necessarily. Well, no, not really. That's that's that's pretty mean. What I mean is
there was there was this group that used to in our church used to like
mock every other church besides Bethel and Bethel was like the king. Like, oh,
Bethel, I need Bethel. And it was like, so frustrating. Yeah. What about
third day? Oh, yeah, absolutely. Yeah, I still like to yeah, the lead singer always said like,
hoody from hoody the blowfish to me. So those guys are the same thing.
Yeah, that day's I like that day. Hoody the blowfish. There's a there's a CD I bought and
rebought and rebought and rebought in the 90s because every time we had a revival, I would
come to Christ again and then throw it away. And then I'm like, but I really like hoody the
blowfish. So yeah, they got a lot of money. Yeah, that's so funny. I still remember when I
downloaded the offspring album again, like I threw it out at one stage. And then after the
youth pastor, I downloaded I think it was yeah, yeah, Americana, I downloaded that again. And I
was like, that was my first tape. I had my first recorded tape from friend. I downloaded it on
iTunes and I was like, it was out of Bible study. And I was like, just as we're leaving, I was like,
I remember offspring downloaded it. And I felt so like, Oh, is this is this okay? Yeah, right.
I'm I got to fall into sin, man. Yeah. Oh, I'm a shakers.
Planet shaker. Oh, yeah, I feel like that might have been slightly after my my time.
Yeah. Do you know tribe? No, I don't. Well, okay, so if you've heard of Carmen,
that's more like my era, like late 80s, early 90s. Carmen, I owned everything of Carmen's.
Yeah. Did you know, I'm not sure if you've ever seen the episodes with Kip Davis on here, but
he has, he really likes his Christian band called Trouble. And they were a Christian metal band
from the 80s, but they were like swear and then not real Christians. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And they have this song called the bosses will pay. And that's like his theme song. So every time
he comes on, I have to change the song to the bosses will pay. And it's a really good song.
It's really like 80s metal. It's cool. Yeah. Well, thank you so much,
Jamon for coming on. I really appreciate it. Everyone go check out Jamon's book.
If I'm really honest, links in the description. If I'm really honest, go check out the book.
If I'm really honest, links in the description, of course, check it out. It's, I've seen,
I thought it was only available for Kindle, but now it looks like it's available on paperback
as well. It's really cool. The paperback version is yep, just recently available. And for the
person who did the super chat that said my cover sucks, they said a nicer than that. I agree with
you. Hit me up. I take you up on your offer. So anyway, shout out to the channel. Okay, cool.
All right. Well, awesome. Well, thank you so much for coming on. And I really appreciate it. And
I can't wait to see all you guys next week. Actually, next week, there won't be a deep
drinks episode. We'll be doing Diablo critics and we'll be streaming here along with every other
like channels. So look forward to that with Dr. Jennifer Bird, Dr. Josh Bowen, Dr. Kip Davis,
Dr. Dan McClellan and Dr. Matt Monger. I think that's all of them, I think. And we'll be looking
at the Satan documentary going to be really good. So see you guys later. Bye.
