Welcome, everyone, to Deep Drink's first ever debate.
The debate about the historical existence of Jesus
revolves around the question of whether he was a real person
who lived in ancient Palestine,
or whether he was a purely mythological figure
by early Christian writers.
Most scholars argue that there is enough evidence
to support the existence of Jesus,
while others contend that the evidence is insufficient,
or that the stories about Jesus
were likely constructed using existing Jewish beliefs
by early Christian communities.
That's
I'd like to introduce my two debaters today.
Elliot Saxon is the content creator
behind Brave New History, which focuses on early Christian
history, Gnosticism, Islam, and the formation of these ideas.
Elliot is taking the position that Jesus
did exist as a historical figure,
and he is drinking coffee.
John Gleason, also known as Godless Engineer,
is an advocate for minimal mythicism.
That Jesus is the result of first century Jews
creating a Hellenistic mystery cults using
pre-existing ideas in Judaism.
John creates videos on mythicism, atheism, skepticism,
history, and more.
John is taking the position that Jesus did not exist
historically, and is drinking a cool blood light.
In the group chat prior to this debate,
John said, I can already see that this is going
to be a fucking train wreck.
So let's see how prophetic John is.
A few notes before we start.
If you're being disruptive in chat, mods will mute you.
If you're warned once, that is your final warning.
Criticize the idea, not the person.
So something like, person is fucking clueless,
he's wrong about X, could be reworded to say,
can person explain why they aren't accounting for X?
Each person will have 10 minutes opener,
then a five minutes each to cross examine
the other person, followed by 30 minutes of open dialogue,
and a 30 minute Q and A.
During the five minute cross examination period,
the speaker has the right to ask questions
of the other debater without interruption.
The speaker can cut off the debater at any time,
think of it like a courtroom setting.
During the 30 minute open dialogue,
I'll use my best discretion to make sure
both parties are getting equal time to talk
or to express their ideas.
We'll be taking questions throughout
and they will be answered during the last 30 minutes.
If you definitely want your question answered,
you can super chat it for top priority.
Lastly, let's remember that no one is gonna die,
this is just a debate, it's okay if people
have different opinions than you,
grab a drink and enjoy this debate.
And my last question for the audience,
post what you're drinking in the comments down below,
it's always good to see the variety
of sober and non-sober drinkers coming out to deep drinks.
So with that said, thank you guys for coming out
to this debate, first deep drinks debate.
And Elliot, I believe it looks like your presentation's
working, so I believe you're the first up
because you're in the affirmative.
That's wonderful.
Awesome.
So I'm gonna share your screen, Elliot,
and I'm going to start a timer for you now
and I will be extremely strict with the time.
All right, wonderful.
All right, so here we go.
We've got Tassanus here,
so what kind of historians would it be
without talking about the historians?
He's early and this is hostile attestation,
which is the best kind of attestation here.
And here he's talking about what nuisance
those Christians are.
And yeah, maybe, look at John's reaction to this.
All right, I'll skip to the next slide
before he gets too hurt here.
And then we've got Josephus, same thing.
Don't look, John, I'm gonna get out
and pass the historians real quick.
Okay, Josephus, also early.
All right, so here looks like this is kind of
a little bit funky this slide here,
but so here, what I mean to say by this slide
is all the things that need to be wrong
for mythicism to be true.
So on one side that slash there,
that slash is supposed to be mythicism on one side.
Then we have Tassanus, Josephus, Glacians 3.1,
we'll get to Thessalonians 2.14,
and mystery called Origins.
So I can't think of one legit scholar
who believes in mystery called Origins.
I read that on the history of Jesus.
I guess it doesn't have to be true
for minimal mythicism to be true,
but certainly all these other points,
in my opinion, would need to be off for it to be true.
And they're all fringe.
We're on the other side of what's generally held to be true.
And including Q theory, the Q hypothesis,
which is the generally held consensus,
and we'd have to be off for mythicism to be true.
All right, so here, my point in quoting Glacians 1.18, 19,
there's a preexisting church before Paul.
So under mythicism, Paul has visions,
he never really talks to Jesus,
nobody really ever does, it's all by vision.
He's believed to be crucified in the heavens.
But that's not really necessary here
because we don't need to deal with Paul.
There's a preexisting church
that we have every indication,
and I'll get that to that later,
that met him in person.
And we have James, the brother of the Lord.
Of course, under mythicism,
it can't be the fleshly brother of the Lord.
You have to have it in like fictive kinship
or something else.
So yeah, we don't really have a whole lot of freedom
under mythicism to be off.
Now here's Glacians 3.1, clearly portrayed as crucified.
Now I've gone to a bunch of scholars,
they say, yes, this is the correct translation,
as opposed to the Greek word here
could be previously written, right?
So previously written in the Old Testament,
but every single translation has this as the translation.
And I tried to understand the Greek grammar
and why it has to be this way,
which it can be read the other way,
but every scholar I've talked to said,
no, this is likely the one.
So we'd have to go with an unlikely reading of the text
to go along with mythicism.
And then here, this is a highly debated one within mythicism.
So we're talking about the Jew.
So he mentions the Jews who killed
the Lord Jesus Christ and the prophets.
So this is believed by a mythosis to be an interpolation,
although it's almost universal
that this is in the original Pauline text.
FC Bauer believed it was an interpolation
that was in the mid 1800s, I believe,
but it's waning and it's low.
So let's see.
So it's, here's the history of Jesus.
We're talking about why it's believed
to be an interpolation.
Let's see.
And so it seems unlikely that he would call it,
that Paul would say that being that he was a Jew.
It seems out of place in that he's,
the argument here is that...
Sorry, is your time going off?
Someone's time is going off.
No?
Oh, good.
That might be me.
Keep going.
All right, so let's get to...
All right, so here's Bart Ehrman.
He, I'm all over the place with this slide thing.
Probably no surprise, he believes it is legit.
Okay.
And let's see here.
Let's get through this here.
And so there's a number of reasons why it's legit.
So it might look at first to be unpoline
in that Paul says Jews will be saved.
But that's kind of where the authentic Pauline epistles
differ from the pseudo Pauline epistles
in that he differentiates salvation from justification.
So everybody's wrath is getting worse and worse, right?
Our God is more and more wrathful
and God is getting more and more angry.
And that's kind of what that's believed
to be talking about there.
And then here, this is another scholar, Todd Still,
where he mentions a large majority
of New Testament scholars believe
that this is a legit verse that's not interpolated.
And then he cites a lengthy amount of scholars that agree.
So let's see here.
Let's see, what do you see on your end?
What do you see?
All right, so this is the chiasmic structure
of Thessalonians, first and second chapter of Thessalonians.
So I'm gonna show here, hopefully, if I have time,
why that piece that's believed by mythosis
to be interpolation must be there
because it fits like a puzzle piece.
So we'll see the chiasmic structure,
if anybody's heard the term mark and sandwich.
So we'll have, if you notice here, faith.
And then there's words of the Holy Spirit, right?
So he mentions faith, Holy Spirit, Holy Spirit, faith.
And then in first Thessalonians chapter two, right?
We have this other pattern.
And then at the end, we have persecution
where he mentions the juice who killed the Lord Jesus
and the prophets.
So without that, it would be asymmetrical.
So there'd be an A at the beginning
and no A at the end.
And here's, so what's that?
Two minutes left.
All right, so here we have corresponding
with first and second Thessalonians.
So he's repeating himself as Paul often does.
So these are the repetitions here.
And then I've also charted this.
It looks a little bit complicated,
but we'll see that he's taking everything
from the first chapter and adding it to the second chapter,
including the wrath when it's in regards
to proselytization, right?
So we'll see, and we thank God continually.
We always thank God for all of you and continually, right?
And so we can, I mean, you can read all of that.
So we're talking about suffering one
and a lot of it is in order.
So it gives us every indication to believe
that this is not interpolation.
And as I've said, so much rides
on each individual fact for mythicism.
So they need everything to put Jesus in outer space,
not on earth.
He can't be a descendant of David.
He has to be made from the seed of David, literal sperm,
so he can become airborne in the heavens.
But when we're putting him on earth,
being killed by humans, that throws a wrench in the works.
And I think if we hold our feet to the fire here
and show that this versus not an interpolation,
we don't have any reason to believe it is
and every reason to believe it's legit.
Yeah, I think that's hard for a mythicist to deal with.
And...
Okay, we are at time.
Thank you so much, Elliot, that was great presentation.
Now we will go over to Godless Engineer,
who will give his presentation.
When you start talking GE,
that is when I will start the timer.
All right, what's up, heathens?
Today, I am here to talk about, of course,
whether or not Jesus existed.
First, I wanna thank everyone for being here today
and for taking part in this debate.
I'm going to present my argument
for why Jesus probably didn't exist.
So first, what exactly is mythicism?
Mythicism is a historical hypothesis
concerning the existence of Jesus Christ.
Historical hypotheses are usually judged
on the basis of how likely something did exist or occur.
That's why I'm specifically gonna describe my conclusion.
I usually say that Jesus probably didn't exist
because it is a likelihood calculation.
Minimal mythicism relates that he was originally
a celestial figure that was given a body
constructed by God using David's seed.
He subsequently descended from the upper heavens
to the lower heavens in the firmament,
just above the earth.
While there, he was killed, buried, and resurrected,
he then ascended back up to the upper heavens.
Later, he appeared to people on earth,
proclaiming his sacrifice
and offering eternal salvation for their sins.
There is a lot of evidential support for this hypothesis
and given the context of Christianity,
it is the best explanation for the weird evidence
we find in sources like Paul,
which means it seems to be the most personal explanation
for what we find in early Christianity.
So I've broken my presentation up into three parts.
I'm gonna be talking about the background information
surrounding Christianity.
This is all the information you have to consider
before you can even consider the evidence
for Jesus's existence.
And then we will cover the Pauline evidence
and then finally any extra biblical references to Jesus.
And we'll start with the background information.
So let's start before the rise of Christianity.
If you want a thorough explanation
of what I'm about to go over,
I would suggest reading on the history of Jesus.
And if you can, questioning the history of Jesus,
these are the leading academic texts outlining this case,
contrary to the Dr. Bart Ehrman book
that was mentioned in the previous slide,
which is not academically peer reviewed
or in any kind of way,
sussed out by actual professional academics.
The pre-Christian evidence is the background information
leading up to the evaluation of the evidence.
We must consider the background information
because it explains why the Jews
would have transformed Judaism into Christianity.
So background info,
since Christianity originally started as a Jewish sect,
it's important to understand
that there was no standard set of Jewish beliefs.
There was a vast landscape of different sects
that existed in the first century.
Their ideas about their religion differ wildly at times.
And this is supported by not only Dr. Carrier,
but also James Charlesworth, Peter Pacomi,
Iric Gruen, J. Andrew Overman, Robert MacLennan,
Margaret Williams, Morton Smith, Allen Siegel
and Hames Charlesworth.
One example of these groups will be the S-scenes
as revealed by the Dead Sea Scrolls.
The S-scenes rejected the temple
and understood the laws of Moses
in completely different ways than the rest of Judaism.
This establishes that there were Jews
that weren't necessarily, thank you, honey,
had to upgrade my drink
considering the presentation that preceded mine.
This establishes that there were Jews
that weren't necessarily holding
to traditional Jewish beliefs,
but were branching out and changing what they believed in
while remaining Jewish.
This is the exact environment Christianity
would develop in.
It allows for nontraditional and varied ideas
to be easily accepted by the Jewish community.
Through Philo of Alexandria,
we also know that there was a synchronization
going on between Hellenistic ideas and the Jewish religion.
In doing this, Philo's logos and archangel figure
in Jewish lore is described exactly
as the figure as we would know Jesus Christ.
Philo describes this archangel
as being the firstborn son of God,
God's agent of creation and his celestial high priest,
and who is involved with cleansing the world of sin.
You can also make the argument
that he considered one of the names of this angel
to be Jesus through his citation of Zechariah 612.
In this section, Philo literally says
that it makes no sense to describe the high priest
and Zechariah the way that they do,
but if you would reinterpret this verse
as discussing the incorporeal firstborn son of God
and celestial high priest, then it makes sense.
This doesn't mean that anyone worshiped this angel,
but there was a pre-existent belief
fairly similar to Paul's Jesus Christ.
This archangel figure logos,
this archangel logos figure shows
that there were groups of Jews
that were searching the scriptures for indications
of who and what this Messiah slash redeemer figure
was supposed to be.
Philo even goes as far as to praise the practice
of Peshir creation, which is what we are describing.
That was a lot to say, I've got more to say right now.
Continuing with Philo,
he also just establishes a weird belief about Moses.
He thought Moses was a pre-existing divine figure.
He considered Moses to have been given a body by God to use
when he descended down to earth to rule as king.
Then he was exalted and ascended into heaven.
Dr. Bart Ehrman says this and how Jesus became God.
At times, Philo even goes further and imagines Moses
as a kind of pre-existent divine being sent to earth
for a time.
And even when God sent him as a lone to the earthly sphere
and caused him to dwell there,
he fitted him with no ordinary excellence,
such as that which kings and rulers have.
But he appointed him as God,
placing all the bodily region and the mind
which rules it in subjugation and slavery to him.
Sacrifices eight to 10.
And he also says, like other specially-favored humans
who had a particularly close relationship with God
so close that Moses himself can be considered
in some sense divine at the end of his life,
Moses was highly exalted by God and made a mortal.
When he was about to depart hence to heaven
to take up the abode there, his abode there
and leaving this mortal life to become immortal,
having been summoned by the father who now changed him,
having previously been a double being,
composed of soul and body into the nature of a single body,
transforming him wholly and entirely
into the most sun-like mind, life of Moses to 228.
What this establishes is that the basic premise
of a minimal mythicism isn't weird in Judaism.
They were considering some divine beings
as being given bodies to accomplish things
and then ascend back up into heaven, augmenting this concept
if it Jesus is minimal compared to how most people talking
about minimal mythicism describe it.
We also have pre-Christian Jewish traditions
contained in the Talmud.
These traditions would include an interpretation
of Isaiah 53 is speaking about the Messiah
and a dying and rising Christ, son of Joseph,
quoting Zechariah 1210.
And this Christ figure would be pierced to death.
While the Talmud dates between the fourth
and sixth century CE, the Jews wouldn't have invented
a Christ with the father named Joseph who dies
and is resurrected to be man's redeemer of sins
after Christianity rose.
This would only validate what the Christians
were already espousing.
If it did arise after Christianity rose,
we would expect some kind of argument against the Christians,
what the Christians were claiming, and we don't find that.
The book of Daniel lays out a timeline
that would culminate in the early 30 CE
with the coming of the same Messiah figure.
This would establish an expectation of the Messiah
coming in the 30 CE.
Since no Messiah actually did come,
they started hallucinating about one.
Peter, Paul, maybe others.
Two minutes.
Two minutes, all right.
We've also got the wisdom of Solomon down there
that also attests to a dying and rising God figure.
All right, I'm gonna try to blow through these last few
because I'm not even through the background information.
So we have multiple different Messiah figures
arising around the same time
and we find that exact situation happen
in the early first century.
The Messiah, son of man, the righteous one, the elect,
the chosen one are all names that are given
to this Messiah figure.
The scriptures were heavily referenced
by the first century Jews and the Jewish Christians.
One such Messiah figure thought of by the Jews
is this military Messiah.
Josephus describes the Egyptian
who is one of these military Messiahs.
But the failure of these military Messiahs
prompted more spiritual interpretation.
The celestial death and resurrection.
So the firmament in the lower heavens
was a physical and celestial place.
The ascension of Isaiah explicitly states
that this happened.
The ascension was later edited
so that all the events took place on earth
and a celestial death and resurrection
was a popular belief among pagans at this time.
You can see the Isis and Osiris cult
for evidence of that.
Next, let's get to the Pauline evidence.
So that was the background information,
all the information you need to know
leading up to actually evaluating the evidence.
So now we've got Paul as a diaspora Jew.
He was synchronizing Hellenistic ideas
with the Jewish religion just like Philo was.
And Paul was writing in Greek
that was only taught in pagan schools.
So this would make it highly unlikely
that Paul's theology wouldn't be influenced
by pagan traditions.
Now Paul's Christ is only ever,
only ever experienced the visions and hallucinations
and reading the scriptures.
The scriptures were in calculations 111 through 16,
Romans 10, 14 to 17, 1 Corinthians 9, 1,
1 Corinthians 15, 3 through 15,
and Romans 16, 25 to 26.
Now Paul's Christ is fundamentally.
We are at time.
Sorry.
Thank you so much.
It's okay.
Thank you so much, Godless engineer.
Um.
Yeah.
Okay, before we jump into the cross examination,
I want to make sure everyone go check out
GE's stream YouTube channel.
If you want to see more stuff like this,
we also have Brave New History.
You can check out his channel.
He's producing more and more content,
which is really cool to see.
And you have an app.
Jesus exists, which goes,
can you tell us a little bit about the app quickly?
Oh yeah.
So this contains information that's collected
from scholars actually in the field,
not just mythicist scholars,
but scholars all over New Testament biblical studies
and ancient history.
And it presents the information
that supports the mythicist hypothesis,
but also you get information about
what the historicists are saying
and why they're probably wrong.
Awesome.
Thank you.
And so if you guys want to support Deep Drinks,
you can join us on Patreon.
Super appreciate it.
Or you can become a member on this channel.
So if a couple of bucks a month
and you get a little emoji next to your name
and things like that,
and you go up in ranks, it's pretty cool.
And in five days, we have a conversation
with a professor, Dr. Robert Miles,
who wrote a book called Jesus.
He's a Marxist professor and he wrote a book called Jesus,
a Marxist material understanding.
So it is a life in class conflict.
So that will be super interesting.
So make sure you subscribe, like the stream
to help the algorithm gods.
It really does help.
And now we will move into the cross examination
and we will start with Elliot Saxon.
You'll have five minutes to question Godless Engineer
or to get on a soapbox and talk about some stuff,
but it's totally up to you now
what you do with his next five minutes.
I'll start it as soon as you start talking.
All right, brilliant.
So what's your view of pre-polying Christianity?
I don't know what you mean by that.
There were Christians prior to Paul
and we don't know what they believed
and we don't have any records of them.
All we have is Paul.
And so we don't know what was said beforehand,
but it seems to not matter
because all we have is Paul as our source.
Okay, I mean, so could you see that there's a development
with Hellenistic ideas from Paul
that it originally started as essentially Jewish
and then as Paul took over, became more Hellenized?
I think that the Jews were busy Hellenizing Judaism
before Paul was doing anything.
I feel like you're trying to ask me
if Paul was the one that started Hellenizing Judaism,
but I would disagree with that
because Paul wasn't Hellenizing Judaism
like alone in a vacuum or anything like that.
Judaism was beginning to be Hellenized prior to Paul.
Got it.
And you don't believe that Peter
or any of the original church pillars
ever saw Jesus in the flesh on earth?
What I do know is that Paul never describes them as disciples.
He only describes them as apostles.
And Paul is very specific about what an apostle is.
An apostle is somebody that received visions of Jesus
and has given information from Jesus.
Disciples would have been people
that walked with Jesus and known Jesus.
I'm busy answering your question, Elliot.
If you don't want me to answer the question,
then don't ask me the question to begin with.
So I don't believe you answered the question.
So you don't let me finish.
You didn't.
No, I'm sorry.
He doesn't have to let you finish, not in this section.
You can bring this up in there.
Okay, good.
I'll remember that for my section.
Yeah, good, good, good.
So you don't believe Peter ever saw Jesus in the flesh
or any of the original pillars?
We don't have any evidence of that.
So no.
So is it everything happens in the cosmos
until we have reason to believe otherwise?
That's not what I said.
So that's not my business point.
You can just say no.
Now, the wisdom of Solomon, where would you take that?
I mean, it's first century.
It's hard to get solid dates for that kind of stuff,
but it's wisdom of Solomon's first century.
So I mean, could well be 90?
You're saying, or is there any question, Elliot?
I answered your question.
Fair enough.
All right, and then the order of the resurrection.
Sorry, so the resurrection only,
that's the first time that we see Jesus, right?
That he's seen in terms of a vision, yeah?
I'm sorry, could you state that
in a more coherent question?
Okay, so how about this?
So when Jesus is giving his the Lord's supper spiel, right?
Like take this cup, take this wine, right?
And then who's he talking to when he's saying that?
So it says on the night that he was handed over, right?
So there's cosmic communication going on, right?
He said, do this.
When he's quoted by Paul as saying that,
who is he talking to?
Do I get to answer now?
Yes.
Oh, okay, good.
Couldn't tell by you continuously answering
or asking questions.
So in that, Paul only ever attests
to being given visions from Jesus.
And so when Paul says that he received this,
then that's how he received it is through a vision.
And so who Jesus is talking to is not only Paul,
but all current and future Christians.
So when he's being quoted, right,
he's dining with them, right?
Who's he dining with?
I don't know, could you tell me that?
I know I'm not supposed to ask you questions.
Yes.
That's what my mind goes to.
He's on earth.
There's no indication that he's in our face.
In order for me to accept that,
I would need a citation in Paul
where Jesus talks about the disciples eating with him.
Okay, we are at time.
It's now time for GE to respond
to ask cross-examine Elliot.
And yes, make sure you can cut him off as much as you want.
This is the time to do that.
I'll obviously stop that in the back and forth,
but here we go.
So it'll start as soon as you start talking.
Oh, and guys, make sure you like the stream.
Like the stream!
You have to like the stream, all right?
It helps the algorithm gods.
Like the stream!
All right, back to it.
So we're just working off a memory
from your presentation.
You started off with Tacitus.
Would you be surprised to know
that New Testament scholar Robert Van Bors
actually agrees with RT France
in that you can't establish
that Tacitus is an independent source?
Well, that surprised me.
Independent of what?
The Gospels or?
Independent of Christians.
Independent of Christians.
Like what do we mean by that?
Well, what I mean by independent of Christians
is that Tacitus was writing in the second century
and he was also penned pals with Pliny,
or Pliny, the younger,
who was currently interrogating Christians.
And so by the second century,
you had at least three Gospels
that were circulating around.
And the Gospels is the only place
that we find Pontius Pilate being mentioned,
which is what is primarily in Tacitus.
So what I mean by independent of Christians
is independent of the Christian community,
independent of Christian thought,
independent of Christian Gospels.
No, I don't think that would surprise me.
Okay, because Robert Van Bors is a Christian,
he's a Christian scholar,
and he disagrees with your entire front-loaded bit
about Tacitus.
That doesn't actually prove that Jesus existed in history
because we can't establish independence.
Another thing I wanna ask is,
do you even understand independence
in our source material?
Well, so I mean, there's different ways to understand it.
So if we were to take, like,
there's a Methayan Christian community,
and that's where we get the diddikei,
as opposed to the Pauline,
and that's where we get...
I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to stop you right there
because none of this actually answers my question.
Can you explain...
Do I believe I understand it?
Yes.
No, no, no.
Can you explain what source independence is?
Different sources.
Sources that are sufficiently different.
No, no, that's not what independence means.
Independence means that you can verify
that a source is independent of other sources
that are communicating similar or the same ideas.
So, like, for instance,
we can't say that Mark is independent of Paul
because Mark obviously uses some of Paul's epistles
in order to form some of the sayings
that Jesus supposedly has.
So Mark is therefore not an independent account.
It's pseudo-independent
because obviously Mark had different sources.
And so since Paul was a source,
I don't think that you could really have a good methodology
for sorting out between any kind of independent information
in Mark and Paul or these other sources
that we further can't establish as independent.
Okay.
So that's just an example.
Now, you mentioned the Q source.
This is only five minutes
until we get to the discussion portion, thank God.
But how can you establish that the Q source
is independent of any kind of fabrication?
Independent of fabrication.
I'm not sure I know what you mean, independent.
Like, it's not fabricated?
Yes.
Um, how do we establish that it's not fabricated?
Like, the Q source doesn't exist at all, you're saying?
Or that-
Well, I mean, it is true that the Q source
is a hypothetical document.
So we don't actually have it physically.
But what I'm asking about is considering the fact
that we don't have the Q document like physically.
How, what's the methodology for determining
whether or not that source contains
independent information?
Yeah, so you can look at it.
So there's the idea that-
You can't, no, no, no, no, I'm sorry, you can't.
You can't look at it, that's the fucking point.
So here, so you can look at the issue, right?
And say, well, Matthew, that looks like it's taking
a lot of bits of Q that bring out the kingdom,
that make it look Jewish.
And then you have Luke, which has a lot of, you know,
other themes of being like hospitable, right?
And being nice to each other.
So there's themes that it seems to be borrowing.
So we would say that maybe that's a different tradition.
It's a different tradition,
but that doesn't mean that it's independent.
How do you determine independent, huh?
How would you differentiate the two?
Two different traditions.
We're at time.
So I want to get a poll going.
I don't have the ability to do polls yet.
So you need to get me to 10,000 subscribers
and I can do polls.
So make sure to like and subscribe, people.
I'm very unhinged.
This debate's got me spicy,
but I want to ask everyone on for a scale from one to 10,
one being smooth sailing and 10 being a huge rack
with burning people and fatalities.
How much of a train rack has this been so far?
Because I feel like whatever it's really gonna be,
the next 30 minutes is really going to bring this one home
and really drive it up a few notches.
So I think three, I think three.
I can't do polls, unfortunately.
So just post your number in the chat.
But guys, we're going to move on to the back and forth
and this will be a 30 minute section.
And then after that we'll get to some Q and A.
So if you want your question answered,
make sure to super chat it
and I'll make sure to read out your questions.
And I've seen a lot from Jacob.
Thank you so much, Jacob.
I really appreciate it.
Let's get into the 30 minutes of open dialogue.
Please be relatively respectful.
I'll only jump in if I absolutely have to.
So let's go.
All right.
Did you just exist?
How do we start that?
No, continue.
However you guys want to go.
Yeah, if you want to go,
I can just respond to what you say.
Okay, okay, that's fine.
Progressing through what I remember
of your presentation there,
the next source that you went to was,
I believe it was Josephus
and specifically the James reference in Josephus, right?
Right.
So is there a way that maybe you could steal man
like the argument against original authorship
for the James reference?
Like come up with the reason why that's interpolation.
I mean, specifically, so I adhere strictly
and especially in this debate,
I'm adhering strictly to the minimal myth's hypothesis
about it.
This is extensively covered in the material.
So I'm just wondering if you can relate to me
what the actual counter argument is
to authentic authorship for the James passage.
That is interpolation by later Christians.
Okay, so the actual argument for other people out there
that are interested,
later on in the passage,
it actually mentions a completely different Jesus
as taking over the position
that the James, the brother of Jesus was killed
and he was killed unjustly by the Sanhedrin.
And mind you, this James is killed completely differently
than all of the other parts of Christianity knows
the James supposedly the brother of the Lord to be killed.
So it kind of makes you wonder why Josephus
will be recording something completely different
than what Christians were already considering
to be the tradition for this James's death.
Next, the part where it says the brother of Christ
or I can't remember exactly how it's worded there,
but basically you can replace that part
with like Ben Damneus or however you wanna reference
this Jesus as being a Ben Damneus that's later on mentioned,
the entire passage becomes more parsimonious.
Like right now in its current state,
it doesn't make sense that James is killed
who has this brother named Jesus who was called the Christ.
That's the phrase that it's used who was called Christ.
And then Josephus simply does not explain it like whatsoever
doesn't explain what a Christ is.
If the testimony of Flavianum had existed in Josephus,
then we would expect some kind of call back there,
some kind of back reference to tell people what a Christ was.
And I don't think that it was ever there,
but I'm also joined by a number of scholars in the field
that also agree that the testimony of Flavianum
is completely inserted by somebody similar to Eusebius
or maybe Eusebius's predecessor.
And considering that,
we should expect some kind of further extrapolation
about what a Christ is at this point,
but we don't get that.
And we also have examples in Josephus of him explaining
who groups were, who people were,
what titles were and everything like that
and all of his stuff.
So considering all of this,
it makes the interpolation hypothesis much more likely
than Josephus writing this incoherent paragraph
that doesn't make sense in any kind of way.
Who is this Bendamnius person?
How is he related to James?
Why would you pick that particular Jesus person
to replace James?
See, in the ancient world,
it was a pretty common place for if a person is killed,
one of their family members would replace them
in that position.
So it just doesn't make a whole hell of a lot of sense
for the passage as it's written now.
Okay.
That's the steel man of the position.
Got it.
Now, if we could return to the Lord Supper.
Okay.
Right?
So when it says on the night,
so 1 Corinthians 11, 23 through 26,
for I received from the Lord what I also handed on to you
that the Lord Jesus on the night he was handed over
took a loaf of bread.
Okay.
Can I stop you?
Can I stop you?
Go ahead.
Just right now,
can you read the very first part of that passage again?
Yeah.
So yeah, for I received from the Lord
what I also handed on to you.
All right, stop.
I received from the Lord.
How did Paul know Jesus?
Right.
No, I mean, I already grant that,
that, you know, he's having visions, right?
Okay.
So let me get,
so just so that everybody's oriented correctly,
we're talking about Paul reciting a vision
that he was given by a magical celestial person in the sky.
However, you want to describe a vision of Jesus.
He had a vision or a hallucination of Jesus.
And now the story.
Yeah.
And so on the night he was handed over,
what's happening on the night he was handed over?
I mean, I don't fucking know, probably dinner.
Okay.
So he's having dinner.
Do you?
Who's he having dinner with?
We don't know.
We don't know if he's having dinner with anybody
or if he's having dinner by himself
because Paul doesn't tell us.
All we know is that Jesus is sitting there
probably eating at a single top alone.
So he appeared to Cephas, right?
Only after he was killed, right?
On his resurrection.
I mean, all we know is that Paul claims that Peter
or Cephas was the first one
to start receiving visions of Jesus.
That's all we know.
And specifically in 1 Corinthians 15, three through eight,
Paul says that the only way that he knows
that the death burial and resurrection even happened
are because the scriptures say it did.
So what's the significance to the on the night
he was handed over?
Who's so presumably it's God handing him over to be killed?
I mean, he doesn't say who's handing him over.
I mean, so I mean, I don't understand the point of this.
Like regardless, no, hold on, hold on, Elliot.
Regardless of like whether or not this night actually happened,
the fact is, is that Paul is saying
that he's receiving this via a vision.
It doesn't matter if it actually happened
or anything like that.
What matters is the fact that he got it in a vision,
a hallucination.
There's no way to actually source this
to any kind of like eyewitness testimony or anything.
Gotcha.
So he's eating with somebody.
And so we would assume that he's eating with demons.
So, and he's talking to somebody.
He's saying he broke it.
And he said, this is my body given for you.
Do this and remember it's of me.
In the same way he put the cup after saying this cup.
Again, what I said earlier is that
the person that he's talking to are not only Paul,
but current and future Christians.
So because this is a vision,
this is a vision being given to Paul
where he's communicating how to observe his sacrifice.
So this is set on the night he was handed over, right?
So we seem to have some timeline thing going on, right?
So it's a prerecorded message to be delivered to Paul
through a vision.
Does Helus, Elliott, seriously now,
does hallucination scream prerecorded fucking message
to you?
No, no, so it doesn't make sense.
So I'm saying that explanation doesn't make sense.
So the only, I mean.
The explanation of Paul literally telling you
that he received it in a vision doesn't make sense.
So would you agree that it's more plausible
that this happened on earth and isn't in a vision?
I think that it's more probable he says
that he had a vision of this.
What does it say vision?
I can't tell you whether or not
it actually happened on earth, Elliott.
So I received from the Lord what I also handed out to you.
So this is a rabbinical saying, right?
So like, I got this from the Lord, I didn't get you.
Citation.
Okay, I got this from the Lord, I'm giving it to you.
He doesn't say it's in a vision, right?
He has visions, right?
How else do you receive messages from the Lord?
How?
I'm just curious.
My tradition.
No, no, no, not from tradition.
What are you talking about?
When I said, hold on, Elliott,
when I said citation needed,
I needed a citation for this being some kind of like way
to communicate that this was handed down by tradition
because I don't know of any.
So when you say, this is what I received
and this is what I'm giving to you, right?
Do you think it's plausible
that we're talking about a tradition being handed down?
I think that Paul is communicating a tradition
he received through hallucinations from Jesus.
Do you read the word hallucination or vision?
In this?
Where else is he gonna get information from the Lord?
From a tradition being passed down.
So do you believe it's more plausible?
That's not from the Lord.
If I say, Elliott gave me anal beads,
does that mean that you gave me anal beads?
I don't know what you're, where are you going with that?
What my point is, is that-
It's a great subject.
Great object to choose.
Are you pointing off-screen to anal beads?
Like, why are you pointing?
Well, look, my point is that he says the Lord gave this to me.
The only time that Jesus is referred to as Lord
is after his resurrection.
And most importantly, that's the only time
when Paul says that he has received visions.
So if he says, I received visions from the Lord,
that means that he got these visions
or he got this information from the Lord,
which could have only been transmitted through visions.
I don't know how else to explain this to you.
We keep on inserting the word visions in here.
Stop, stop, stop.
I don't know how else to explain this to you
because this is literally just a fucking-
I know, because you must.
In order to remain a mythicist,
you must interpret it this way.
And I'm trying to get at-
No, I don't, you must interpret this
any kind of fucking way, Elliot.
This is just how English fucking works.
Yeah, you just insert words that make your case.
What, what word did I insert?
In hallucination, vision, can you read from-
How are you gonna get a message from the Lord?
How would you get, tell me,
how would you get a message from the Lord right now?
If you were to tell me, I got a message from the Lord,
how would that happen right now?
So I mean, have you ever heard missionaries say,
I've got a word from the Lord,
the Lord has given me something to tell you?
That's obviously not what Paul is saying.
And you're being anachronistic
by importing modern-day missionary shifts.
I mean, maybe Paul is doing things going anywhere,
but so yeah, it seems to me that it,
when we're talking about, on the night,
he's handed it over, right?
Something is going on there.
That sets that to, we're at that point in the timeline
before he's crucified and he's talking to people.
But I don't know, do you have a different subject
I think we've kind of beaten this one to death?
I was going to, I don't know if you guys could touch on this,
but I was going to ask,
so for me, a big sticking point for the myth of this position
is that it's not really taken a grip in the academic world
in that the majority of scholars
still subscribe to a historicity model.
Could you guys talk about why you think that is
or and why is that the case?
Well, under the book on the history of Jesus,
I don't know if, John, you hold to it
about mystery, religion, origins for Christianity,
which I mean is just beyond out there.
I mean, I would imagine any scholar
that would read that would be done with the book
after they've read that part.
That's really odd there, Elliot, for you to say,
considering that on the history of Jesus,
not only that, but also proving history,
the other book that Carrier wrote has passed peer reviewed
twice and this was like, each one had two peer reviewers.
So to say that, oh yeah, academics
aren't going to pass this through,
I feel like that's really ridiculous.
Also, you've kind of been put in your place
by Derek over there on Aethelotica.
So I mean, it kind of seems like you're just kind of
well, if you read the thread, he agreed with me
that there was a misunderstanding
on what we were talking about that.
I agree, there's a lot of parallels.
We all agree that there's parallels
with mystery religions, right?
I've done presentations on it and speculating if,
I mean, it's one of my favorite conspiracy theories
within Christianity, but-
It's not a conspiracy theory.
Why would you label it a conspiracy theory?
Nobody holds to it.
Nobody holds to it.
I feel like that's pretty bullshit right there.
Sight me a scholar that does.
Oh, okay.
See, I have the benefit of actually having Carrier's book
where he lists all of this shit and I can go in
and I can actually look and see-
Okay.
Like all of the information.
But the-
That should be easy.
Between me and fucking Elliot here is that he has
literally not read even half of the actual position.
Great.
So it should be easy for you to cite somebody.
So, I mean, we-
So when we look at mythicism
and we see Jesus crucified near the moon
and I don't know what level of heaven
the cosmic sperm bank beams him from to the third heaven.
I mean, when people hear this, they don't take it seriously.
You don't understand like that whole
cosmic sperm bank thing.
You don't even understand it.
I sincerely doubt-
I don't think anybody does.
You could even-
So-
No, it's very obvious that there are people that do.
Try to steel man that particular argument.
Why don't you?
I mean, it's-
When we're talking about-
I mean, all you gotta do is read a book
and that's pretty fucking good, right?
So, I mean, when we're talking about seed,
it's clear we're talking metaphorically about descendants.
We're not talking about sperm being-
Is it clear?
Beamed down to a different level of heaven
to create a human being that's gonna go down
to another lower-
Hold on, hold on.
Wait, can you say that again?
Did you just say that sperm was beamed down
from the upper levels of heaven
to the lower levels of heaven
in order to create Jesus' body?
Yeah.
Okay, then explain it for us.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Listen, okay, I'm aggravated right now and I'm angry
and I know that people can understand that I'm angry.
But that's because Elliot has not read the actual position.
Elliot doesn't know what in the fuck he's talking about.
And he can't even steelman the position
because he just said,
God beamed fucking sperm to the lower levels of heaven.
Do me a favor real quick, Elliot.
Why don't you look up,
I believe it's 2 Samuel chapter seven, verse 14.
Do it right now, Google it.
Yeah, I think that's the one you showed me in chat, right?
That you're talking about,
it's referring to a cosmic sperm bank.
Give me the verse again.
It's the one that talks about God taking sperm from David
in order to create progeny later.
All right, give it to me.
Elliot, Elliot, it'd be good.
When you looked at it,
while you looked that up,
it'd be good to also just after that,
if we could, I'd really interested John,
if you could steal me in the historicity position.
I'm not sure if you guys would be open to that.
But just as you're looking up that scripture, guys,
make sure you check out that channel.
What's the scripture, John?
Second Samuel, seven, 14.
Cool.
So look that up, Elliot.
And as you're doing that,
I just wanna say check out Godless Engineer on YouTube
and Elliot, Brave New History.
And we have a Marxist philosopher,
professor coming in to talk about Jesus,
life and class conflict in the podcast setting.
So it won't be a debate, it'll just be me.
For those people who are just coming here for a debate,
we do deep drinks and deep conversations on this podcast.
So I invite someone on, they choose the drink,
and then we drink that drink
over the course of a deep conversation, hence deep drink.
So this will be really interesting in five days.
So make sure you subscribe and hit that like button.
We have 53 people watching,
and then the 46 likes like it
because it helps the algorithm gods.
All right, so here we are.
Yep, I think this is one that you were showing me in chat.
I will be his father and he will be my son.
When he does wrong, I will punish him
with a rod wielded by men,
with floggings inflicted by human hands.
But my love will never be taken away from him
as I took it away from Saul,
whom I removed from before you.
So I must have skipped by the sperm bank part.
Is it in the next chapter or the next verse?
Maybe I'll go to the verse.
Hold on, maybe I quoted the wrong thing.
I'll go to the full chapter here, maybe.
Maybe it's some destroyed.
Yeah, obviously, this isn't destroyed.
Was that a comment?
That was a joke, it was a joke.
I'm taking a neutral perspective on this.
Okay, so.
Yeah, yeah, second Samuel 7, 12 to 14.
And when thy days be fulfilled
and thou shall sleep with thy fathers,
I will set up thy seed after thee,
which shall proceed out of the bowels
and I will establish his kingdom.
He shall build an house for my name
and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever.
I will be his father and he shall be my son.
It's second Samuel 7, 12 to 14.
All right, so you're saying that this is sperm
taken out of his abdomen to be stored up in heaven.
I'm saying that this is literally God
saying that he will take sperm out of David's bowels
and he will use it to establish his kingdom.
So is that where the sperm is, is it in the bowels?
I mean, it really doesn't fucking matter
like where these people thought sperm collected.
So what matters is that what,
I will set up thy seed, thy seed,
regardless of whether they think the seed is,
the seed after thee.
So you're saying when they say seed,
they mean sperm, they don't mean progeny.
If I tell you to wipe your seed up off the floor,
what do you think?
Do you think that I'm trying to tell you
to pick your grandson up off the floor?
So I mean, it's clear by context.
So for example, everywhere in the New Testament
where it says seed, we're talking about metaphor, right?
So we're talking about descendants, right?
So from the seed of David,
we're talking about from the descendants of David.
That's a possible interpretation,
but the other possible interpretation is a literal seed.
So you would go to say it's more likely
that we're talking about some kind of sperm bank
coming down to, I mean, somehow beaming up sperm
to be used later to create a messiah
rather than we're talking about progeny on earth?
I think, here's what I think.
I think that the way that Paul speaks about Jesus' body
and his use of specific Greek words indicate
that Jesus was manufactured by God.
How could he be of the seed of David
and be manufactured by God?
Well, if we look in 2 Samuel 7, 12 through 14,
oh, look, there's a perfect explanation.
God took seed, God came down, jerked off David,
collected his seed, palmed it for centuries,
and then eventually constructed a body for Jesus.
And we know that Paul is talking about a constructed body,
not only by his use of Genomai rather than Genoho,
but also because of the fact that Paul lumps in
Jesus' body with Adam's body,
which was also constructed by God
and our future resurrection bodies,
which is also constructed by God.
So it's kind of like there's overwhelming fucking evidence
for this whole idea that God jerked off David
in his sleep, collected his seed,
palmed it in order to create a body for Jesus.
I don't know what to say to that.
I mean, you probably wouldn't know what to say to it
if you had actually read the fucking materials.
So, I mean, I think it's clear that this is out there.
I mean, I think it's clear that this is out there.
I mean, I don't know if I need to comment on that.
What in Christianity isn't out there?
Tell me, Philo of Alexandria thought
that Moses was akin to God
and that God gave Moses a loner body
so that he could come down and become king of the Jews.
And then after he died,
he ascended back up into heaven and became immortal.
What exactly to these people was fucking out there?
Yeah, so I wanna make a point.
Later on, early church fathers recorded
that Jesus took Mary Magdalene up onto a mountain,
proceeded to pull a rib woman out of his side,
raped her right in front of Mary,
ejaculated inside of her
and then reached inside pulling his ejaculate out.
And then he looked her dead ass in the face
and was like, you must do this so that we may live.
And then he proceeds to eat his own cum.
What in the fuck does out there mean to these people?
So that's anti-nostic polemics.
That wasn't a real God.
Jesus.
That was Jesus.
Yes, Jesus.
So it doesn't, no, no, no, that's not my point.
That's not my point.
Okay, my point is what is considered out there
to these people that believe these crazy fucking things.
They literally thought that demons
inhabited the firmament.
They literally believed that paradise was in the third heaven
and that Adam's body, his whole being and Eve,
for that matter, was created in the third heaven.
So when you say this is rather out there, true.
It's out there for us
because we know that there's no firmament.
We know that this shit doesn't happen.
But is it out there for first century Jews?
No, because it's anachronistic for you to be like,
well, this is crazy talk to me.
So therefore it must be crazy talk to the Jews.
Yeah, so, I mean, it's one thing to say,
like there's a prophecy that the Messiah
will come from the line of David, right?
Or from the seed of David.
And then to have this elaborate sperm bank and the sky
and all this X-rated stuff.
Okay, well, let's go Romans 13 Greek.
Okay, just typing that in.
Everybody at home can do this too.
If you go to Romans 13,
which is where all of this takes place,
I actually have a really good video on this
that totally explains it.
But anyways, it uses, I can't pronounce the word
because I'm not Greek,
but anyways, the word is genomai
and it is literally translated in this particular verse
in the Satuagint as having come of the seed of David,
which can be interpreted allegorically.
There are several times where Paul references
the Jewish or the Christian people
being of the seed of Abraham or Jewish people
being of the seed of Abraham or actually,
it's being the seed of Abraham.
But in this, oh, shit, I lost my thing.
But in this particular instance,
it uses genomai that's the base word
and that can either mean being born
because obviously there are people that use it that way,
but that's not how Paul uses it.
Paul uses it specifically to say having come of the seed,
being made of the seed, that's what that means.
Right.
So what are you saying with that?
I'm saying that Jesus's body was made
of the seed of David, literally.
So it necessitates a cosmic sperm bank?
I think it necessitates God using the seed of David
to create a body.
I think that it's congruent with how Paul talks
about Jesus's body in other sections,
being that he uses genomai,
which is used to indicate manufacture.
So, no, it's not.
So, genomai simply means,
genomai, correct, genomai simply means,
look it up, look it up on Google, translate, right now.
I will, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
not Google translate.
We've got to look at an actual dictionary
for the Greek.
So here, if I can share this for you.
I can just click on it right here.
This is what's so great about the internet
is that we can actually just click on hyperlinks
and we can get to it.
David, is it okay if I share my screen right now?
It is, we are at the end of the back and forth.
However, we can extend it into a little bit into the Q&A.
I do want to say, share your screen,
but I do want to say quickly that I love that.
I'm having the best time.
I love a good trainwreck
and it definitely has been a trainwreck.
Make sure to share this
with your fundamentalist mother-in-law.
She'll love it.
And I like that the conversation around mythicism
has included references to divine come and butt plugs.
And the next time that these two are going to debate,
it'll be an anal bead.
So yeah, not butt plugs, anal bead, sorry.
And the next time these two will debate
will be via jelly wrestling.
So if you want to see that happen,
make sure you subscribe and like.
We're going to be doing a live stream,
a jelly wrestle between these two.
I'm just kidding.
So share your screen, go this inch in.
Let's move into the Q&A.
It's right here.
Okay, get on my.
I'm wondering if you can read words on a screen here.
It's a verb, genomai, that's how it's pronounced.
And then you get definition to come into being,
to happen, to become,
which in our modern intellect is manufucking facture.
So you don't, we're not seeing manufactured here.
I don't know, does that word appear on the screen anywhere?
It says to become, to happen, to come into being.
Is that manufacturer?
It means to become, nothing more, nothing less.
So you, you were born, did you just became?
Like, when you slid on your mother's vagina,
did you just become?
Oh my God.
So you can be made and you can be born.
Those are both becoming, right?
So born is, did you know,
hey, here's a, here's a, here's a fun thing.
Did you know that there's an explicit word for, for born?
In Greek, in this particular version of Greek.
There's a version of it.
Yeah. So that's what I'm saying.
And did you know it's, it's related to the word, gnaho?
I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm going to,
I'm going to move on to some Q and A questions guys.
So we've got a lot of Q and A questions
from people super chat.
I really appreciate it.
I'm going to jump around a bit,
but I will read your messages.
So stupid or energy commented and said,
why is there no definitive physical or archeological
evidence of the existence of Jesus,
even though he accomplished things
that even Alexander the Great didn't accomplish?
I think this is-
Hold on, let me, let me attack this first as a mythosus.
So physical or archeological evidence,
we're not exactly expecting that
as far as the mythosus camp goes.
Like we're not expecting physical or archeological evidence
considering the fact that he was an itinerant,
Jew, as far as the minimal historicity goes,
he's an itinerant Jew that was going around.
He had broceps that followed him, possibly one whore.
And so, I mean, it, we don't expect him to have like coins
or have like monuments modeled after him
or anything like that.
So that as far as our side goes, we're not expecting that,
but it is I guess maybe a good question
for the, for the historicist side.
Okay, Alia, do you want to talk to him about?
Well, so I think with he accomplished things
that even Alexander the Great didn't accomplish,
I wonder what we're referring to there.
I think that's where the legend part comes in.
And why is there no definitive physical or archeological
evidence of the existence of Jesus?
Well, because things,
they degrade over time.
I mean, what would we expect to play?
Just say the Shroud of Turin.
I get it.
Well, I mean, if I would go to something out there,
I'd say the James Aschewary, which may or may not be legit,
I think it's a stronger argument than the Shroud of Turin.
Cool.
We have no scholar believes in mystery cult's origins,
question mark, net Bible commentary on 1 Corinthians 2 9.
In extra biblical literature,
this was applied to the initiate of a mystery religion,
page 2187.
Thank you, Jacob, for your super chat.
And then he followed this up with Galatians 3 1.
Jesus wasn't crucified on Galatia
according to mainstream scholars,
yet the passage says he was crucified in Galatia
plus one mythos and just to read that out for everyone
in Galatians 3 1.
What translation is best, everyone?
Because they all, this is a bit...
I like how that looks like you.
Okay.
Okay, I'll read it in IV.
You foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you?
Before your very eyes, Jesus Christ
was clearly portrayed as crucified.
Do you have a translation you like, John?
I can read that one.
For this particular purpose, it doesn't matter.
I mean, I don't understand how this has any kind of bearing
on whether or not Jesus existed on earth.
And for me, this is primarily because of the fact
that Paul only ever got his information
from hallucinations in scripture.
So if Jesus was clearly crucified,
Paul could just as easily be talking about
his interpretation of scripture.
There's multiple places in scripture
where crucifixion could readily be pulled out
and be affixed to the Messiah figure
as having suffered that death.
So it seems to me like this is a non-starting point
for hystericity.
What about yourself, Elliot?
So yeah, I don't think it's saying
that Christ was crucified in Galatia.
There's a few things going on here
that make it a little bit weird
that Galatia wasn't Jewish.
So like what we're saying,
so the whole thing about clearly portrayed,
which is the point of contention
on how it should be translated.
It could mean according to what was written previously.
So it's like a lot of people will say that it's like publicly,
like a placard is being put out there
to give public notice of something.
So everybody who's given public notice
that Christ was crucified
and the public notice was in Galatia.
That's the mainstream reading.
And then some people would say that Galatians
wouldn't really find it convincing
that in the Old Testament,
Jesus was prophesied in terms of Christophany.
But Jesus was crucified in Galatia
according to mainstream scholars.
Yeah, the Baptist says crucified in Galatia.
No, the notice of being crucified was in Galatia.
It was the mainstream reading.
Okay, what about the,
and if you could just touch on this,
no scholar believes in mystery called origins
and then he quotes where they do,
or where it's a belief.
I don't know what they were referring to here.
It might be,
because I know there were Christian mystery schools later on,
I think second century.
Like where we have the book of Jude,
J-E-U, that looks very mystery culty
where they have the true name of God is J-E-U.
They might be referring to that,
but that's not Christian origins
that later developed into that.
But I don't know what's being referred to here.
That's just my guess.
Well, my guess is that with one Corinthians two, nine,
and we can easily look that up,
but my guess is as far as initiating
into a mystery religion,
might be concerning like baptism
or something like that.
Let's see, one Corinthians two, nine.
Oh, got it.
So yeah, this is-
I don't know, I'm reading it right now.
Yeah.
I has not seen nor heard,
nor have any entered into the heart of man,
the things which God have prepared
for those who love him.
What I can tell you,
which I haven't actually done a lot of research
on that particular thing,
but just reading straight from the minimal myth's disposition,
all mystery religions centered on a central savior deity,
literally called the savior,
which is essentially the meaning of the word Jesus.
They are always considered the son of God
or occasionally a daughter of God
who underwent some sort of suffering
by which they procured salvation
for all who participate in their cult,
their deed of torment,
having given them dominion over death.
These deaths or trials were literally called a passion,
Pathion, literally sufferings exactly as in Christianity.
So, I mean, this is a well-known thing
in the academic world about this.
It's even attested to in like,
in Plutarch's Anosai,
Isis and Osiris, which is Moralia.
And it's also attested to in Hebrews
and Philemon to Corinthians, Mark.
Herodotus histories also has a lot of indication
of this same kind of structure.
All throughout the Gospels,
you have the structure of a mystery cult,
being that you have these forward-facing stories
that people are not gonna understand,
but only the people that are initiated into the cult
are going to understand.
You have that constant messaging all throughout it.
So, as far as like, what Christianity was,
by the time that we have evidence of Christianity,
which would be Paul, it's a mystery cult.
So, I mean, we, that's what it is.
So, I mean, yeah, I mean, here we have a,
like I would say this is good evidence of mystery cult,
right, with the passes being put here.
Though this is simply, we're taking it out of Isaiah.
So, Paul likes to take snippets of Isaiah.
And there's sure a lot of passengers
that also refute this idea.
So, I mean, I know that we're syncretistic.
We're including a lot of things that are
Kalanistic, like the Mystery Religions.
But, you know, from, we don't have reason
to believe that its origins were Mystery Religion.
I'm inclined to believe that.
So, we have Paul, who's from Tarsus,
which that's the Mecca of Mythraism.
So, he's likely very familiar with Mythraism.
And then we have the original Petrine Church
that's very Jewish and Orthodox.
And then Paul comes in, preaches to the Gentiles,
and then he takes it in this whole other way
that he's, when he's preaching to the Gentiles,
he's a Gentile.
He does whatever it takes to sell the church.
And then we, if you want it to be, you know,
just like a Mystery Religion, it can be that to you.
Or if you want it to be just like Judaism,
it can be that to you, right?
But, I mean-
I mean, Paul himself has Mystery Religion,
like, not nomenclature, but verbiage, yeah.
Paul describes his faith as a Mystery Religion.
He even calls it the Mystery, I believe.
Well, a Mystery, yeah.
So, I mean, I can't think of the passages,
but he'll also say, but it's open to everybody.
So, in ages past, I think this one says it too.
I mean, that would be the difference
between Judaism and, well,
between Christianity, Judaism, and the other Mystery.
Like, the differences are what characterize
the Mystery Religion, and that's the same
for every single Mystery Religion we have.
So, my point is, is I don't see you making a point here.
This just seems to be pointless.
So, I'm not really making a point,
I'm just explaining what we're reading.
I mean, it's, I mean, you can keep on insisting that,
there's Mystery called Origins to Christianity,
but, like, no scholar believes
that there's no evidence for it.
So, it's hardly worth arguing over that.
I mean, if you want to be, like-
There's no evidence for what?
The Mystery called Origins for Christianity.
I mean, there's a lot of coincidence.
I mean, I just laid it all out for you
how the central savior deity of all
these Mystery Religions were called the Son of God.
They underwent a suffering-
That's just plain untrue.
So-
No, it's not, citation needed.
I need a citation.
Oh, it's made from the Son of God?
Osiris went through it, Zoroastrian went through it.
You said every, right?
Huh?
You said every, right?
So, we have-
I'm saying all Mystery Religions centered around
a central deity called the savior
that was always a son or daughter of God
who underwent a suffering of some kind
by which they procured salvation
for all who participate in their cult.
These deaths or trials were literally called a passion
exactly as in Christianity.
I'm gonna move to the next comment.
Falsified, plagiarized and mythologized Gospels
plus later interpolations in Josephus
plus a couple of Skewer Ophete's OFT
mistranslation passages in Paul equals historical Jesus.
I'm missing the symmetry breaker.
Thank you, Jacob, again for your super chat.
Super appreciate it.
Yeah, so I think that Jacob is pointing out
how there's plagiarized and mythologized Gospels.
He's like questioning how does that equation make sense?
How do later interpolations into Josephus
and obscure and OFT mistranslated passages in Paul
and mythologized and plagiarized Gospels,
how does all of that get us to a historical Jesus?
Well, I mean, it would but falsified
and plagiarized and mythologized Gospels.
So he doesn't seem to have a very, excuse me,
look at it as much history of the Gospels.
Hold on, hold on.
What's your methodology for sorting out
falsified information in the Gospels
versus true historical information?
Yeah, so it's a bit of guessing.
So you use biblical critical tools.
So I mean, you keep on laughing
but I think that's hiding your, I mean.
It's literally not hiding anything
because you said, oh, it's a big guessing game.
We just kind of have to guess what the historical facts
in the Gospels are.
We don't have a methodology in order to figure out
what the fuck Jesus said or did.
It's just a bit of guessing.
So like we said last time though,
we can look at- Can I guess that Jesus actually ate cum?
Is that like a reasonable guess?
So you can come back to that but that's known to be,
I mean, this kind of shows off like where you're at
with the discourse.
So- Where I'm at?
Yeah, exactly.
So like if everything is funny, right?
You just latch onto something that's weird, right?
Or, and just laugh about it, right?
If you were to look into this,
you would know that that's an anti-nostic polemic.
So there's no gospel that actually said that, right?
No, no, no, that's completely wrong.
And I mean, that's coming from Dr. Bart Erwin himself,
King Historicist extraordinaire,
because he records or he illuminates early church fathers
talking about a specific document
that was circulated throughout early Christian history
that was called the greater sayings of Mary
or something like that or the greater questions,
the greater questions of Mary.
That's what the document was called.
And it contained this particular idea.
So, I mean, whether or not it's ridiculous
or people took it seriously or not,
this was something that was circulated around
and believed in by some people.
Yeah, so I mean, it seems to me that you researched
just enough to get a zinger out there
independent of whether it's true or not.
I mean, I don't think it's true,
but I think it's true that there were people
that wrote this down and for all I know,
believed it completely.
Yeah, for all you know, because I mean,
you research it just enough, right,
to laugh about it and make a zinger,
but not to actually make a real argument.
I mean, the argument is,
is that this was a document in circulation
that was not preserved until,
that was not preserved in its original fashion,
but was preserved through quotations by early church fathers.
And the fact that this exists shows
that there were wild ass beliefs in early Christianity.
And so it's like, I should have my entire point
with this is, and bringing up that particular story,
is that you have to have some kind of methodology
in order to discern true history
from fictionalized information.
And I don't think that you have that methodology.
And the reason why I don't think
that you have that methodology
is because it's actually a problem
in biblical and New Testament studies.
Everybody has their own methodology.
And so they end up coming up with their own version
of a historical Christ,
their own version of the Q document
or their own version of the M or the L document
because they're having to fabricate all of this.
And so I should be able to have a method
that I can use to discern true information
from false information.
And the best that you can give me, Elliot,
is it's a bit of guessing
in order to know what's historical.
So no, that's because you cut me off
and started laughing, right?
When I was going into the explanation.
I put my head in my hand and I started shaking it
and then you mentioned that I was shaking my head
and then you went off on a tangent.
That's not my fault.
It's not my fault that you got distracted by my reaction.
Yeah.
All right.
Do we have any more super chats?
Yeah.
I have a super chat, not a super chat,
but a member saying thanks
for facilitating this conversation.
Thank you, River City Films.
The next question is from the mighty man himself,
Richard Carrier.
I'd love to read and analyze the study
during an article or blog where you'd get the,
can someone, chiasmus argument?
Chiasmus?
Chiasmus argument for the authenticity of the PSG dot
in one passage, in one Thessalonians two.
Please, do please direct me to that.
Thank you.
So that's, I guess that's more of a,
Yeah, so Carrier's asking,
he's asking where you got your,
the diagram that you put up in your presentation.
Like where, was it a journal article?
Was it a blog?
Like, what was it?
So yeah, so let's see.
There's, I mean, it depends on which diagram we're talking about.
The one with all the lines, I think, from Thessalonians.
Oh, that was me.
That I made that, which, I mean,
I wish we could put that up here cause it's,
let's see.
But yeah, no, it's, it is pretty neat.
How do I,
It's okay, we can move on.
No, I guess we don't have time, but,
I mean, you could screen capture it, I guess,
from the presentation.
Yeah, yeah, take a screenshot.
So Meredith asked, thank you so much,
Meredith for the super chat and thank you,
Richard for the super chat as well.
And thanks for being here as well.
I really appreciate it.
What is the mythos account of the birth narratives
in Matthew and Luke?
Why cover up Jesus of Nazareth actual place of birth?
Or is that wrong?
That's actually a really good question.
And it's actually a very typical question because,
you know, it's, it's typically labeled as like the,
the Hitchens argument for historical Jesus
because it's like, why make up Nazareth
as his place of birth?
But so basically, if you look in like Paul's work,
he never, he never mentions any kind of birthplace for Jesus
because he doesn't really care about a birthplace for Jesus.
But this only occurs with the gospel,
specifically like the questioner said Matthew and Luke.
And this probably all stems from Mark's gospel
when he, when he says that Jesus is called a Nazarene,
I believe is what it is.
And then of course, you know,
a lot of the information about Jesus is found
in the scriptures.
So they fairly easily found that,
that Jesus was supposed to come from Bethlehem.
And Matthew is actually the one that explicitly states
a lot of the scripture stuff,
like just basically that this comes from scripture.
So Matthew would state that Jesus coming from Bethlehem
is to fulfill scripture.
And then Nazareth is to fulfill scripture.
And then Luke is not as explicit about it being
from scripture, but considering that Luke copies from Matthew,
I mean, that's where he's getting it from.
But as far as Bethlehem goes, there's a very specific,
there's an explicit call in the scriptures to Bethlehem
being the birthplace of the Messiah.
That's easily read out.
Now, typically it's questioned as far as Nazareth,
like why would they even put Nazareth in there?
Well, there's a lot of different competing hypotheses
about how this could have come about.
There could be some scripture
that we just simply don't have anymore
because we don't know how much scripture we've actually lost
that the early first century Jews would have had.
And so they could have gotten a specific scripture
that detailed that Jesus was supposed to be called a Nazarian
or be from Nazareth or something of that nature.
But then there were other scholars that say,
well, Isaiah 11-1 kind of has this reference
and this word right here could easily be misinterpreted
as being that he's supposed to be Nazarian.
And then there's a whole discussion
on what does a Nazarian mean?
Does that mean from Nazareth
or is this like a title of some kind?
There's arguments for both sides of that.
Ultimately though, where I kind of land
on the whole differing birthplaces thing
is that ultimately everybody gets
all their information from scripture.
Whether they're explicitly saying it or not,
they're appealing to scripture
in order to get the information.
There's no eyewitness accounts
that place Jesus in birthplace in Nazareth.
There's no actual evidence to suggest
that Jesus was born in Nazareth.
So the best explanation seems to be
that scripture informed people
as to where Jesus was supposed to be born at
and considering that multiple different communities
were reading different birthplaces out of it
and these two gospels were coming in at the end
of multiple communities saying
that Jesus is supposed to be born in one place or another.
They were trying to make sense
of the part of the scriptures
that were supposed to be about the Messiah.
And so they just ended up being
from both places, Bethlehem and Nazareth.
As you'll see in Mark,
it doesn't matter if he's from Nazareth or not.
Actually, there's passages in Mark
that seem to indicate that he's more or less
from Capernaum and not Nazareth or Bethlehem.
But if you go to John,
John actually has Jesus as a pre-existent figure
that God used to create everything in the universe.
And so he was pretty much just sent to earth
in a similar fashion as the minimal myths' hypothesis
actually proposes.
And there's a lot of stuff concerning all that.
So I hope that answered the question from my perspective.
Ali, do you have anything to say on Meredith's comment?
Yeah, I mean, just like with
Who was it that argued that this points to historicity?
John said it, we're talking about Stephen.
What's that?
Bad-Emmon?
No, one of the Four Horsemen, he's deceased now
from the UK.
Christopher Hitchens.
Christopher Hitchens, yeah.
Yeah, and yeah, I mean, I would say
that it points to an earlier tradition
where Jesus is not from Bethlehem,
but they need him to be born in Bethlehem.
And so that's an issue because I mean,
that's the prophecy, right?
Being born in Bethlehem is on the seat of David.
And I mean, similarly where Paul talks about
the Jews crucifying Christ, it was clearly the Romans.
So there was a later switch to blame the Jews, right?
Where earlier tradition had at the Romans,
when we're deviating from what the story seems to be saying
that might hint at an earlier tradition, hopefully, yeah.
And we have one last final super chat
and then we'll move on to closing statements.
And this super chat is from Nitty.
Could we end this discussion with sun shines
and rainbows and hugs if we can see to historical Jesus
and a mythical Christ?
I mean, I can't concede to that.
So no hugs.
I mean, I realized that I got very heated in it,
but that's just because, you know.
You shouldn't have switched to Rome.
I shouldn't have said, no, no, no, that's not the problem.
I mean, so Ellie and I have, you know, a few weeks back,
you know, we had a stream where I talked to him
about mythicism and it was very obvious
that he hadn't read, you know, the scholarship on it.
And then, you know, coming into this debate tonight,
I was hoping that he had actually read
some of the mythic position.
But I feel like, I feel a little bit like,
I feel a little bit like Elliot just simply didn't read
anything, at least not to understand anything.
And that kind of got me a little agitated and heated.
So the fact that I explicitly told Elliot to read
the material and then he proceeds not to read the material
and instead just make shit up,
I feel is a bit disrespectful towards me for this debate,
but also disrespectful to just the position in general,
because at that point,
you're now spreading misinformation about it.
You're, what's effectively lying about the situation,
not that maybe he's consciously lying about it,
but if you're speaking authoritatively on it
or you're telling people what the mythic position says,
and that's not the mythic position,
then at some level you're lying,
whether you know it or not.
And so that's what kind of got me heated.
I will not concede to a historical Jesus
and a mythical Christ.
I think that Jesus started off as a visionary experience
and this is due to the fact that all the military messiahs
didn't have any kind of significant effect
and people were expecting messiahs.
So they ended up hallucinating a Jesus.
Like it eventually just happened naturally.
That's a natural explanation that is more likely than,
I feel, than this historical Christ person existing.
Gotcha.
So yeah, I mean, in terms of me not being familiar enough
with other history of Jesus,
what would you say that I mis-portrayed mythicism with?
Every single thing that I asked you to steal, man,
every single time I asked you to steal, man,
you could not do it.
You could not do it.
Like specifically, can you give me like a specific example?
Well, there's the James passage in Josephus.
You couldn't steal man that argument.
You couldn't steal man the sperm bank thing.
You couldn't steal, man, any argument that I asked,
sorry, any argument that I asked you to steal, man,
in this entire conversation,
you could not give me any kind of coherent response to it.
And so that seems to indicate to me that if you read
on the history of Jesus, like at all,
you either didn't understand it
or you weren't reading it to understand it,
you were just reading it to say that you had read it.
Because like for the dying and rising,
save your figure,
there's scholars all over the spectrum
for that particular position.
There's scholars all over the position
for the mystery cult position.
There's just, it's like you-
And you were going to name one, weren't you?
You were going to name one.
Well, I mean, we're in the middle of the discussion.
I mean, I-
So yeah, I mean, it seems that,
it seems a recurring thing when you talk to mythicists
that they'll say, well, you don't know true mythicism.
So I really went to the argument here.
It's like, I mean-
True mythicism?
And I don't know if the Calvinists are the same way
that, no, that's not really my position.
You're just being insulting.
How is that insulting?
I mean, that's what I observed.
That's what I observed.
I believe-
Elliot, Elliot, you literally couldn't steal, man,
a goddamn one of the arguments that I asked you to steal,
man.
I don't know how I would defend a cosmic sperm bank
in the seventh heaven.
I mean-
You don't have to get it, Elliot, Elliot, Elliot, Elliot.
You make the argument.
Elliot.
Like you're here to represent your side of it, right?
I'm not here to represent your side.
I can't think of a death star like orbiting in the heavens
that's beaming around sperm to create Messiah figures.
I mean, it's just, if you want that defended,
you need to defend that.
I have not said that.
In fact, I chastised you for even fucking proposing that.
So the point is, is that in a debate,
if you're going to be debating somebody,
it's usually good form to understand their position
so that you can steal, man,
and you know what they are arguing
so that you're not bringing bullshit to the table, Elliot.
This is basic debate.
So here, you're not giving me specifics.
Yep.
So I was just going to say, but we are at time,
and it's obvious that we aren't ending in hugs and kisses
and rainbows and sunshine,
but that's okay.
I like a train wreck,
but God, I think I'm hearing what you're saying.
You're saying that someone should be able to steal man
the other side's position.
And I was just wondering,
could you give us like a two, three minute
steal man of the historicity position?
And then I'm going to clip it
and say that I converted you to historicity
and then use that as clip.
Obviously, quote, mine is the only way to go with that.
So, I mean, a steal man of the historicist's argument
is basically that the verses in Paul obviously lean
in a direction of historicity for Jesus
that Paul in some kind of way,
either through knowing K-Foss and James,
that they knew a physical Jesus
and relayed information to Paul,
which then pops up in these vague verses
that mythicists claim are too vague
to actually determine it,
but they actually indicate a historical Jesus,
which would, you know,
the Thessalonians verse would probably pop in there.
And then you also have like the QM and L sources.
Those are obviously, you know,
that they're indicative of a historical person
or at least I'm pulling from my understanding
of Dr. Bart Ehrman's position there
because he claims that there's like 25 sources
or more in the first century
that attest to a historical Jesus.
And so, I mean, pretty much that's it.
Paul attests to a historical Jesus
and then there are other sources that we don't have now,
but seem to indicate a historical Jesus.
You wouldn't just,
and just now I'm cross examining you,
but you wouldn't consider the gospels as,
if you were to still man historical account,
you wouldn't consider the gospels as like.
Well, so Ehrman's position is that the gospel accounts
are not reliable,
but they are informed by sources called QM and L.
And those sources themselves are indicative
of a historical person.
And so that like it's the sources behind the gospels
that are indicative of a historical person.
It's not the gospels themselves
because they're not reliable.
Okay.
And I know that we kind of talked about this before,
but why don't you think,
or do you think that there will be a change in scholarship
in regard in the next 50, 100 years
where mythicism will become the dominant
or at least a similar position?
Or do you think it's just too young at this stage
for people who've been studying the Bible for 50 years?
And I believe is Richard Carrier kind of like,
he's the first like major,
his book was the first major book that touched on it, right?
I mean, I'm sure the thing is-
Yes.
He's, so on the history of Jesus
is the first academic undertaking of the question
in about a hundred years.
And so he published that.
And I think that the way that things seem to be going
is that ever so gradually,
people like Dr. Bart Ehrman are starting to cave
on certain topics that minimal mythicism
already advocates for.
And considering the fact that minimal mythicism
is largely built on current biblical
and New Testament scholarly consensus,
the very few things that are very mythicisty
may never become like a major position.
But I mean, I feel like that's because
if you think about who are biblical
and New Testament scholars,
you don't see that many secular or atheist or
anybody like that, like taking up biblical scholarship.
Even Dr. Bart Ehrman, when he entered into this field,
he was trained as an apologist.
He went to theological schools.
He went to seminary.
And so he was trained to be an apologist
and he only later left the faith.
And so what you have is an entire field
that's predicated on the idea that Jesus
is the son of God and died for our sins.
I don't think that the majority
of biblical and New Testament scholarship
will ever change their position.
But I do think that the mythicist position
is growing in the community.
Because not only since Carrier has put out his book
and not only Carrier, but Raphael the Taster,
who wrote in 2019, but we have only ever seen
an increase in academic scholars
that are at least sympathetic to the position,
that are at least saying that, yeah,
this should be investigated.
Like this is a hard question and we need to look into it.
So do I think that it'll ever become
the mainstream position in New Testament
and biblical scholarship?
Probably not, because most of those people
are gonna be Christian.
Most of those institutions that grant those kinds
of degrees are gonna be requiring you to be a Christian.
But as we see this new generation of biblical scholars,
New Testament scholars continuing
to investigate this kind of stuff,
I think that you will eventually see
what people call the, I guess, secular
or less biased portion of the community,
they're gonna be drifting closer and closer
to the mythicist side.
Because the mythicist side,
the minimal, specifically minimal mythicism
is based on evidence and based on arguments
to the best explanation for the evidence that we have.
And because of that fact,
we will always be on sure footing than somebody
that's just like, eh, it's just a bit of guessing
to know what's historical or not.
Okay, well, we're gonna move on to closing statements.
I'll give you guys two minutes each.
I just wanted to say thank you everyone
for liking the stream,
for sharing it with your fundamentalist auntie
or brother-in-law.
Guys, if you want to join this channel,
you can click the join button there
and you will get access to a bunch of behind the scenes
stuff as well as custom emojis.
And you help support this channel, which is huge.
So I really appreciate it or check out the Patreon
and the links to these guys' streams is in the description.
So I guess I'll start with, I had it written down
and I worked it out before, we'll start with
two minute closing from John
and then we'll do a clip, two minute closing from Elliot
and it'll start as soon as you guys start talking.
Okay, well, two minute closing here.
I didn't get to go a lot through my opening,
which I covered a lot of the sources that Elliot brought up.
I am obviously not convinced by the conversation.
I feel like a lot of historicists out there
do not actually read the material as evidenced
by their inability to steal man, the mythic arguments.
Instead, they choose to represent it as a death star
beaming sperm down to the lower heavens
in order to create Jesus's body,
which is obviously not in the mythic material.
But again, that doesn't stop historicists
from making up these wild claims.
And I feel like if you're going to actually argue
against the position, you might want to know
what the position is.
And until historicists start actually interacting
with the real position, with the actual position,
start knowing what the minimal mythicist position is,
they are just simply not going to be well-equipped
to actually handle the mythicist position.
Because every time you misrepresent
or you straw man the mythicist position,
we're just going to be like, that's not what we say.
Here's what we say.
And it's going to sound a whole lot more rational
than whatever somebody, some historicist thinks
the minimal mythicist position is.
So yeah, I feel like the minimal mythicist position
is solidly placed in evidence.
I feel like it's hard to argue against the evidence for it.
And I feel like in order to overcome the evidence,
you've got to bring at least as solid evidence
if not even more solid evidence against it.
Because that's what it's going to take
to overcome that prior probability.
As it exists now, the prior probability
can't be overcome by the existing evidence.
Thank you so much, Godless Engineer.
Make sure to check out his stuff at Godless Engineer
and Elliot Saxon, Brave New History.
Let's go two minute closing.
Yeah, so this is, that's the pattern with mythicists.
It's that you make a point, you say,
well, this is blown out of the water.
Well, that wasn't essential to my point anyway.
And well, you know, you said this,
but this doesn't really matter.
You don't really understand my position.
And I'm not going to tell it to you.
And it's, well, like I said,
it's like arguing with the Calvinist
that it's just, the position is whatever it takes.
And it's always, or oftentimes from silence, right?
So Paul never said he's on earth or the,
I mean, it's just like,
and when we're getting out of the timeline, right?
Like, where are they right now, right?
In time, they're on the night that he was handed over.
Or Jesus was handed over.
Who's he talking to?
Oh, we don't know, right?
But under his historicity,
we know exactly what's happening.
He's having the last supper, right?
And I mean, it's just,
when we have all these like, far out like,
what's more likely that the Petrine Church
all had just a bunch of hallucinations
and they started this movement, right?
I mean, or that there was an actual person, right?
And all of these little data points
are next to fatal,
if they're not completely fatal to mythicism.
They have to all be wrong, right?
So the second Thessalonians, that can't be real, right?
The Galatians 31, that can't be real, right?
That that would put Jesus on earth.
And you can't have Jesus on earth.
You have to have him in the sky, right?
So that's why the seed of David is in the sky.
And that's-
Right, time.
Thank you.
Thank you for the,
I should have a little timer on stream,
but thank you for the closing statement, guys.
It's been really fun,
even though it's been a little bit of a train wreck,
but I enjoy a good train wreck.
I was having the best time.
We have Brian Stevens, who just super chatted one last time.
So he's closing statement, it's just meta.
Okay, then it's not only a question,
but we'll show it anyway.
Well, thank you for the super chat.
We're going to end this stream by showing a trailer
for an upcoming Purity Channel Culture,
a Purity Culture Horror Stories Panel.
So mouthful there.
And I'm the one, I haven't even been debating or drinking,
but anyway, we're gonna end there.
Thank you guys for coming out.
I appreciate it.
If you like stuff like this,
if you like to see debates,
comment down below,
because I have no idea, well, actually,
I'll probably have some good of an idea,
but comment down below.
I'll get some more debates happening.
It'll be really cool.
We're trying to get this channel to grow and grow
and get some, keep getting amazing guests.
So please keep like, sharing, subscribing,
send us to your fundamentalist uncle,
and let's do this.
See you guys.
Yep, thanks everyone.
Yup.
Aight.
Will back.
..
Nice.
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay, let's take your beeps.
Yeah.
Hold on, where are they?
Come on, over here, over here, over here.
Would you like to see scary effects
in this channel?
I have a phone at set,
but I had to make sure oh processor
was saudizry Could i cyclical
and go and see
someone who might want us to see
the Tr bize to Christian
Thanks for watching guys!
