And I'm like, surely there's a historical evidence for Jesus.
And I had somebody challenge me on that, like, why don't you provide me the evidence?
And so I went looking for it.
Were you the crazy snake handler kind of Pentecostal?
No, no, no. We don't have that. That's like an American phenomenon, I'm pretty sure.
Yeah, yeah.
This is one instance where there's a direct connection between the two
where John is refuting these prior Gospels.
Whoever wrote, like, the Pentateuch, the Old Testament,
do you think that they were trying to deceive, like, the Jews
when they wrote about the Garden of Eden or they wrote about Noah's flood or anything like that?
Welcome to Deep Drinks Podcast, where the drinks are deep and the conversations are deeper.
Welcome, everyone, to Deep Drinks Podcasts, where the drinks are deep and the conversations are
deeper. My name is Dave, and today we have John, Godless Engineer with us.
John runs a popular YouTube channel, Godless Engineer, where he engages in atheist activism,
where he hopes to help those who are losing or have lost their faith, not feel so alone.
John is a Jesus mythicist, which is a position that the story of Jesus is a piece of mythology,
assessing no substantial claims to historical fact.
There are a few different flavors of Jesus mythicism, which we will learn all about today.
As you may know, Godless Engineer, you may know Godless Engineer from his appearances on The
Line, Cosmic Skeptics Channel, Polygia, MythVision, Podcast, and many, many more.
John and I started chatting for the first time when I made some inflammatory remarks about Jesus
mythicists on Twitter, where I was taken on to John's show and stood trial for not knowing
anything about the topic I was ridiculing. Despite a few tense moments, we ended the
conversation on friendly terms, and now it's time to learn more about Jesus mythicism.
Welcome, John Gleason, Godless Engineer to Deep Drinks Podcast. Welcome, John.
Thank you so much for having me. I was really excited when you asked me to
be interviewed by you on here. I always love talking with people just about mythicism,
but just in general, I love interacting and really just engaging with like-minded persons.
Yeah, it's interesting, dude, because I was looking at, I'm not sure when you up there,
you're about section on your YouTube channel, but I really liked how you mentioned that, you know,
you, when you first, when you first started losing your faith, you felt really alone,
and you felt like you didn't have any one to kind of bounce your ideas off and stuff, and that's
the kind of, it's still a driving force that kind of drives you forward in your YouTube channel to
like create that environment for people to kind of feel, to kind of explore their faith and explore
their lack of faith and things like that. Yeah, I mean, I always want to try to provide a sort of
community or at least a space where people feel like they can, you know, ask questions, even if
they're, you know, a little inflammatory, sometimes I'll let that get the better of me, but I try to
be a really good conversationalist and just try to, you know, educate people on different things,
at least how I view the world, and, you know, I listen to other people and what they say,
sometimes I adopt certain points of view, sometimes I, you know, I'm not convinced of it,
so I reject it, and it's always, you know, having a good exchange of thoughts is the way that you
continue to grow and really figure out who you are, so, you know, I try my best to provide that
through any of my social media, and I think I do a somewhat decent job of it.
Has your, has your position on any one topic changed throughout your YouTube career? Like,
if you had any through having these conversations with people, have you had like a shift in your
perspective? Well, you know, I don't know what it was like for you, if you were ever religious,
but coming out of religion, coming out of religion, I, you know,
what am I trying to say here? Coming out of religion, I was very angry, you know, like,
I wasn't angry because I felt lied to or anything like that, but I felt angry just because it's
like, you know, well, I don't believe in these things, and then, you know, I've got people that
are coming at me saying, oh, you should believe in those things, and so it was kind of like spurring
that kind of anger, and so, you know, I would, I would post like cringy sort of, I would make and
post cringy sort of atheist memes and everything like that, and I think I've really softened in my
messaging for the most part, except for, you know, this past year, when I've gone a little bit harder
at it again, as far as the politics goes, it's not really so much the religion
discussion that I've really gone hard with, it's more politics that have kind of taken like a
pretty hard line position about, you know, being conservative or liberal, and, you know, as far as,
as far as the conservatives here, like in the United States, they're getting a little bit out of
control, but as far as, like, really, yes, no shit. I've noticed, they seem quite reasonable.
Yeah, but that's one, that's one big thing that I've changed, this is how I, how I relate to
religious people, how I relate to, you know, other atheists in general, trying, I do my best to try
to set a good example of how to, you know, I guess present yourself in a discussion,
whether that be, you know, having an open mind and gently talking to somebody about
why they're wrong and stuff, or if it's, you know, taking a very hard line, we're not having this
kind of discussion on this topic kind of position, and I guess being a little bit more of an asshole,
because I think that, you know, there are definitely lines that you can draw, as far as, like, well,
you know, I'll be, I'll be reasonable and have conversations with you up until this point. And
if you cross that line, you know, I'm gonna have to pull out the asshole, is how, is how I see it.
So, knowing where that line is for you is kind of important. I try to stress that for everybody,
not, not, not just, you know, when to be an asshole, but like, where's that line for you,
as far as when to stop the conversation as well. And so I do try to, you know, be a good
role model, I guess, for that kind of thing, because I always wanted somebody to look up to
that would, you know, either, that would be really confident in their position, and would
know when to take something seriously, when to laugh at it, or when to be angry. And, you know,
I feel like if somebody has like a good example of like, well, you know, that, you know, this,
you know, really got him angry. And it's not so much that that person should get angry at it too.
But I want people to feel, you know, okay, that they're angry about something like within, within
reason, you know, you could be angry about, you know, certain things. And you could express that
anger, not not necessarily in violent ways or anything like that. But you could definitely
have strong messaging, you can definitely let people know that you're not fucking around kind
of thing. So I didn't even check with you. Is it okay to curse? Oh, no fucking way. Yeah,
no fucking way. No, I'm going to pour my drink because this is already getting good. So we're
drinking Kraken, a Kraken cream, you call it, right? Well, yes, Kraken cream soda is what I call it
because it tastes, me being a diabetic, I haven't had cream soda in the longest time. So this is
the closest that I've tasted like cream soda that hasn't been like, you know, sugar free cream soda.
Yeah, unfortunately, I couldn't get the I couldn't get the sugar free. And I'm one of those weird
people who who I actually prefer the sugar free versus the regular. So that's weird like that.
But I wanted to ask you, you set the tone. All right, every guest sets the tone. How many shots
am I putting in this bad boy? Just one, two, like, well, so how how how big is the cup that you're
putting it in that big? I would I would do between one or two. I think I think between one or two
shots is probably going to get you good. Oh, and keep in mind, it is midday in Australia, I'll do two.
This show is like horrible for any type of dieting.
Yeah, yeah, because I'm like, I'm cutting down my booze intake. And then it's like,
and then I'm like, Oh, God, I got a I got a drink this weekend. And then, you know, it's impossible
not to like, eat junk food after you've been drinking. So awesome. Well, I did actually
want to ask you, you mentioned, you know, I think everyone goes through those atheists,
I'd like to call the atheist edge lord days where you're like, yeah, where you're like, oh,
religion, lol, and like, you just rip on at the whole time. I've suffered a lot of my my
approach as well. I used to be a Pentecostal youth pastor, I was quite religious at one stage.
And I was quite angry as well. But you mentioned about how like, you find people,
you kind of want to emulate and like, when they know when to laugh, when they know when to get
angry, when they know how to, you know, to take things seriously. Who are they? Like, for me,
I've got a I've got a picture of who I call daddy Hitchens, Christopher Hitchens on the wall.
Because I don't agree with him. I don't agree with a lot of what he said. But I just,
I just fucking love his his wit. Like, I just in he's a brilliant writer and some of the things
he said. So for me, I've always loved Christopher Hitchens. Do you have anyone that you looked up
to when you first started deconstructing your faith? Yeah, I mean, I guess kind of the
the how's that drink? Oh, it's actually really good. I know, right? Oh, wow. Yeah.
I've tried it with other rums and other rums don't taste like Kraken and Sprite do.
Yeah. But so as far as my my role, like when I first came out, you know,
or, you know, came into my worldview of atheism, I mean, I guess I looked up to the the classic
four horsemen, I guess you could say of, you know, you get you get maybe a lot less of Dennett,
because he was more philosophy. And I, you know, at that time, I was just like, I'm not really trying
to get my my head around like, you know, all the all the deep philosophy that Dennett kind of goes
into. But he was still important. And then, you know, you've got Hitchens and Harris and
Laurel Krauss was in a four horsemen. I believe it was the other I think the other horsemen might
have been Dawkins. Dawkins, yeah, it was Dawkins. Yeah. So I mean, there were those people. And,
you know, I I can't recall any any any person in general that I saw like in debates or anything
like that that would just laugh like at certain claims or things, maybe maybe Hitchens a little bit
and and probably Oh, Stephen Fry, you know, there's there's actually a really good debate
with Christopher Hitchens, Stephen Fry, against the Catholic Church. Oh, yeah. I love that one.
And it was, yeah, it was that was a really good debate. And description, you've everyone's got
to watch it. It's great. It's so good. Yeah. Yeah, it's really good. What I love about that one is
uses the a slur like a for homosexual homosexual, so uses the F slur. And it takes you off guard
really hard. But he's using it in the context of like, this is what the Catholic Church is
essentially saying. He's like, he's exposing and I still feel really uncomfortable when I hear him
say it. But at the same time, it's it's brings to light the the gravity of what the Catholic
Church was doing to a mass amount of people. And I was like, well, but it's like, if there's
any time I'm not saying I do endorse using that slur, but if there's any time to endorse using
that slur, I think that's probably the only time I've ever seen I could ever be swayed on that
opinion. But geez, it was it was brutal. And also, I love in that in that conversation where you can
see Christopher Hitchens is engaging in a little bit of bad faith, because the Catholic, not not
I'm not saying this in a negative way. He's kind of poking the bear, right? Like, when the lady gets
up to like, make some comments, she corrects you on a few things. And he goes like, Yeah, I guess so.
Like, but he was trying, he was driving his point home so hard. And I like the fact that he can be,
you know, honest, like that. I just thought I don't know, I love it. I'm agree with you 100%.
Yeah. Well, and I guess that, you know, most of most of the interactions that that I had where I
was laughing, you know, at certain things just, you know, came from a lot of like, you know,
the YouTube community watching, you know, YouTube content creators. I mean, early in those days,
you know, like the amazing atheist, you know, he was he was pretty, he was pretty big on YouTube.
But I mean, you had other people like Jacqueline Glenn, she was doing a lot of content. And
yeah. And there wasn't, I didn't really see a lot of debates happening when I first
was like, sort of finding my way around. But, you know, I just kind of found my own footing as far as
like, you know, when it was when I felt like it was okay to laugh at a particular claim.
And, you know, there at first, I think that I probably didn't laugh too much. And it's only
now in my, I guess, older age, where I've heard the same shit, you know, day in and day out,
every single day. And at some point, you just got to, you got to start laughing at the ridiculous
claims, because there'd be a time where I was like, well, you know, I really don't know how
to respond to this, how do I respond to it? So I'll go looking for either, you know, information
or videos or debates or something like that, that would try to answer that question. Like,
with the morality question, I went searching for that, you know, I found Sam Harris's moral
landscape, which that's a pretty good book. I mean, in my opinion, Sam Harris has kind of gone off
of rails somewhat lately. But yeah, they all seem to have, haven't they? They've all got their own
little ticks, I guess. I don't know about Dennett, but I definitely have Dawkins and people have got
Bayford Dawkins and Harris at the moment, but they've got some good stuff still, but just yeah.
Yeah, like the same Harris's moral landscape, I think provides a pretty good examination of,
like if we were to consider morality to be objective, you know, what would we base that in,
if it's not like religion? And so we kind of, he goes down that path of it. And so that gives you
a really good foundation for, you know, looking at how even on objective morality,
you have all this subjectivity that underlies it. And so, you know, there was all that. And then,
oh, the big, a big, you know, topic is of course, Christian nationalism. And, you know, there's
been several debates on that. Sadly, a lot of the debate of the debates concern David Silverman,
which has turned out to be kind of a shit show he has. But, you know, looking at all that, looking
at, you know, creators of the same kind of caliber are kind of what, I guess, crafted
how I engage with the opposition, as well as with, you know, fellow atheists out there.
So, you know, I've tried to, I've really tried to take on the role of trying to be somebody that,
you know, people feel like they can go out and have a drink with, which I mean, I've done
on a few occasions, you know, people was like, we got to have a beer. Yeah, exactly.
That's what this show is. Yeah. I, I actually wanted to just mention to, I've recently read
The Fundamentals of Ethics, or listen to the audible version, sorry, by Russ Schaefer Launder,
and it just more cemented my perspective that morality just seems to be, like, because he
goes through every essentially moral theory, utilitarianism, can't, theories by can't, and
many more can't, I think, just like a lot of different, maybe I got that wrong, but a lot of
different theories of ethics. And he just basically brings up, he talks about what they are, then
brings up like the pros, the cons, what objections that people have, and then he moves on to the
next one. And you're like, there, there, there seems to be no one real answer. So when people
like rip on, because a lot of people will, will pull apart Sam Harris's book, because he's like,
kind of like he begs the question, where he goes, well, if we, if we make morality objective,
and we use it based on well-being, we can make it, we can make an objective this way.
People will say, well, you kind of just begging the question in regards to what morality is.
But I think that Sam Harris may be right there and that I don't think I'm kind of a
morally anti-realist. So I don't think there is such thing. I don't think there's anything in
nature you can point to and say, there is morality here. But I think that if you were to build a
moral framework, I think Sam Harris, Sam, the techniques Sam Harris lays out in the moral
landscape are actually quite fantastic. Well, so for them to say that it's begging the question,
if you wanted to say that, I think that in order to discuss morality in general,
you have to start from an agreement as to what is your end goal. So for like religious people,
Christians in particular, their end goal is to follow what God says in their holy book, right?
Like it's literally in the Bible that anything that's sinful is basically stuff that doesn't
glorify God or that God says is bad, right? And then everything that's good are the commandments
and directions by God, right? So as long as the end goal there would be to follow what God says
is good and bad and everything. So that's their end goal. Whereas for me, the well-being of conscious
creatures or whatever that Sam Harris has in his book would be kind of similar to my end goal of
trying to be a good person and not do harm to others and try to make sure that the things that
I do only help better my community, help better my position and the position of others around me
and everything like that. So you have to have like an end goal in mind in order to make those
kind of moral justifications about things. Like to say one thing is good or bad, it's like it's
good or bad with respect to what? You have to have that end goal in mind. So it's just that I don't
have the same end goal as religious people and for some reason that's a problem for them.
Well, it's interesting too because when I have conversations with religious people and they say
where do you get your morality from or whatever and like it's so easy to just see that they also
don't get their morality from the Bible because as soon as you start bringing up segments in the
Bible that they would disagree with like slavery, taking the virgin woman for yourself, killing the
infants of the Amalekites, whatever, they go, they start making excuses. Oh, that was for a time,
or you've been taking it out of context. What are you using? What's inside you that's stopping
you from accepting those verses as plain reading? Like something is inside you that you're going,
maybe it isn't a good idea to own other people a slavery. Maybe it isn't a good idea to stone your
unruly child at the corner of the town, like at the gates of the town. Like they make these
statements that they follow the Bible as objective morality, you point out what the Bible says and
then they start, they use something else, something else inside them to determine
like whether or not they agree with it or not and then they start making excuses.
It's like you're not even objective, like you say you are, but you're not.
One of the most uncomfortable situations I've been in has been on a debate with Dr. Josh and I
and it was me and Dr. Josh arguing against a couple of Black Christians about slavery in the
Bible. Yeah, I think I remember that one. Yeah, and a question came, it was like a super chat or
something like that and the host had to read it and ask them this question and it was basically
asking the two Black guys, would you be a godless engineer slave if it was biblical slavery?
And they said yes, like both of them were like, yeah, I'd be a slave and I'm like, I'm way too
fucking southern for this. Bad optics, bad optics. You can't push back, you're like,
you can't push back, so I could beat you if you didn't know, I can draw it all three years
because it looks so bad. Godless engineer wants to own black people as slaves. I had to sit there
and just be like, listen, I do not condone this, I do not want to own anybody as slaves.
Like I'm way too Alabama for this question, okay? I think that's the only way you can,
if you want to be consistent with like, I believe everything in the Bible, I think you have to buy
the bull and go, yep, you know what, slavery's okay, so I think that's just what they were doing.
The biblical or the slavery apologetics is kind of in full force right now for some reason.
The apologists, they just want to deny that there was chattel slavery in the Bible,
or that God condoned chattel slavery, and they tie themselves up in knots all the time,
trying to excuse, like with saying, oh, well, that was for a different time, for a different place,
and I'm like, well, I'm not saying that you should own slaves now. I'm saying that God thinks it's
okay to own slaves because he directly says it. Yeah, I always used to, I like to ask them like,
so is owning someone as property a sin? And then they can't say yes, because like it was never
changed in the Bible anywhere. You know, Jesus said, you know, I think it was Jesus said,
or either Paul or Jesus in the New Testament, obey your masters, even the cruel ones, slaves obey
your masters, even the cruel ones. So anyway, I actually wanted to quickly touch on, before
jumping into some mythicism stuff, I wanted to quickly touch on your journey. So you grew up
Christian. Yes, what type of Christian were you? Well, for a start now, I was Catholic. I went to
private Catholic school up until about fourth grade. And then when I started fifth grade,
I wanted to get the fuck out of that place. So I went to public school. And so after that,
I kind of bounced around like Southern, Southern Baptist and non denominational churches. And
I would go in and out of being very religious. You know, there was at one point in my life,
like I had three friends in the neighborhood, all of them super, super religious, right? Like,
they were doing Bible studies and they were going to Wednesday night and Sunday morning church,
and which Wednesday night was the youth group. And then Sunday would be the regular church services.
I almost never went to the Sunday church services because I just felt so out of place. It was, I
was the only one that was going and everything. So I just, I felt out of place. But I was fine
going to the Wednesday night services where, I mean, we'd sing and then there'd be some Bible
teaching where the cherry pick out of the Bible and then we'd sing some more and then we'd, you
know, have dinner and go home. So I mean, that was, that was pretty fun. If I, if I wanted to have
friends in my area, I had to be religious in some kind of respect. So, you know, naturally that
kind of peer pressure, I would get like really deep into faith. At one point, I was, I was pretty
deep into like wanting to believe in Jesus or wanting to be a good Christian kid that, you know,
like I was going to these Christian rock band concerts and I bought, I had bought this necklace
that was three nails that were put in the shape of a cross. And so I like, I had that necklace. And
have you ever heard of the band DC talk? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They had a persecution porn book put
out where it was just a collection of like Christians that had been persecuted for believing,
you know, in Jesus, not Jesus Freaks, is it? May have been like martyrs and stuff. Yes. Yes,
it was, it was martyrs. It was like a whole bunch of stories. Yeah. And so like I had bought that
and I had read it and it was like all emotional and stuff. And it wasn't until I was with my,
my first, well, she wasn't my wife at that point, but my first wife, my ex-wife. And, you know,
she kind of challenged me a little bit on it. I had never been the type of person to judge somebody
just because they believe differently than me. And maybe that's just because I wasn't all that
into like, you know, believing in the religious aspect of it. Like I had been taught just as a
a fact of reality that God exists. Jesus is his son and you got to suck his dick in order to get
into heaven. And so, okay. I've never heard it said like that. Yeah. Yeah. That's a weird
form of Christianity. I've never been a Christian. Well, I mean, obviously, as like a 16 year old
kid, I wasn't thinking that way. But in retrospect, that's kind of what it was. But
so, you know, I never been one to really judge other people for not believing like I did. So,
like in high school, I remember having a girlfriend that was like Wiccan. And, you know,
I kind of rolled my eyes whenever she did some like weird Wicca stuff. But I never judged her
for it. And I mean, I think I get that for my dad because my parents were like my mom and my step
father, they were they were pretty bad as far as like judging other people and all this other stuff,
plus it being the South, there was all this like inherent racism that was just running rampant
all over the place that I didn't even realize until like I stepped out of that bubble. And I
realized like how bad it was. But so with my my ex wife, you know, she didn't necessarily she didn't
believe she she wasn't a believer. And so she kind of challenged me on a few things. And I had to
really sit there and contemplate like what I believe. And she was no she never like pushed
anything on me or anything like that. But it did get to the point where you know, I was really
struggling with it. And I just I confided in one of my friends, I used to play in a softball
church league, right? And I confided in him about it. And one night after a softball practice,
you know, he said to me, if you don't believe in the Bible from from cover to cover, that it's all
literally true, then you're not a real Christian. And so that's like one of the biggest things that
I remember in my past. And because it's that night that I was like, well, I guess I'm not a real
Christian. I mean, obviously, now I know that's like a no true Scotsman fallacy, that it really
shouldn't have convinced me away from my position. But you know, it kind of did because I was sitting
there like, Well, what do I believe? Do I believe in a God? Like, do I think that there could be
something out there that exists? And so I really had to do a lot of introspection into what I
believed, why I believed it. And, you know, I spent a lot of time like looking at the hard
questions of like, you know, morality, what evidence we have of God, evidence for Jesus,
and all this other stuff. When looking through all of that, I came out the other end of it,
like, probably after about six months, six to nine months of really kind of going back and
forth, I had to admit to myself that I didn't believe in God anymore. And that was probably the
hardest thing that I did was admitting that I'm an atheist, because, you know, I'd been brought up
thinking that you had to believe in God in order to be a good person, like you had to do what the
Bible tells you, or you have to basically what would Jesus do? You know, if you're not doing what
you think Jesus would do, then you're probably going to hell. And you know, I had that racking around
my brain for like a good portion of my life. And so to actually admit to myself that I didn't
believe anymore, that was a really big hurdle for me to get over. So, you know, I eventually got over
it, and I was fine with it. I accepted it. And then that's when problems started with, like,
family members and everything. Like, I remember, you know, of course, this was early. So, you know,
cringy atheists kind of saying inflammatory things. You know, I said a few things that upset
some family members, and they ended up unfriending me on Facebook and all this other stuff. And so,
that's when I created Godless Engineer. It was an outlet so that I could, you know, speak my mind
about things and reply and, you know, have my voice heard and not have to worry about my family
getting pissed off at me. Yeah, that's interesting. I had a similar experience when you had that moment
of a no-true Scottsman fallacy, but you had that moment where you're like, well, am I a Christian
if I don't believe the whole Bible? And they go, you're thinking, because I had a moment like that
when I was talking to a lady at the church, and I was talking about, I was reading the Bible through
again, and all the New Testament. And I said, I got up to the scripture in 2 Timothy. I would
read it. A woman should learn in quietness and full submission. I did not permit a woman to teach
or to assume authority over a man. She must be quiet. For Adam was formed first, then Eve,
and Adam was not the one who was deceived. It was the woman who was deceived and became a sinner.
But women will be saved through childbearing if they continue in faith, love, holiness,
and propriety. And I mentioned this to her, and she said, oh, well, that was for a time. And
she explained the whole, you know, apologetics. There were, you know, men and women were separated.
She'd lean over the aisle. She'd interrupt because she didn't understand because they
weren't educated back then. But now it's not for the time, right? And I was like, well,
no, it says it. It says the reason. It says for Adam was formed first, then Eve.
And Adam was not deceived. Women were deceived. So that's still true today.
And then it says, the only, and then it says, but women will be saved through childbearing
if they continue in faith, love, holiness, and propriety. And I was like, those reasons are still
there. Like it's still, and I don't agree with that. And I was like, I think women should be,
I'm all for equality. Like I think women should be able to, and I just saw that what she was saying,
and at the same time, she would say that, you know, homosexuality is a sin. And one of my dear
friends who I went through Bible ministry college with, he was closeted for 45 years,
and he recently came out. And, and I'm looking, I'm like, man, he's, he, he's like, his whole life
has kind of been screwed because he thinks that homosexuality is a sin. They're not saying that
was for a time. They're saying, no, that's still relevant today, but then there's a verse clearly
here. And they're saying, no, that's, that's for a time. And, and that was for me. I went away
and going, okay, I need to think about this because I obviously disagree with the Bible. I
need to fix myself. Like I need to work out why I disagree with the Bible and go, and for me, that
was like a little, a little like, why do I disagree with the Bible? Like something wrong with me?
Like, it was interesting. That's, it happened for me as well. Like that. Did you, sorry, go?
Oh, well, I was just, because I remember you saying that you were a Pentecostal, right? Pentecostal
preacher. Were you the, the, the crazy snake handler kind of Pentecostal? No, no, no, we don't
have that. That's, that's like, that's like, that's like an American phenomenon. I'm pretty sure.
Sadly, I can totally see that. We have like the, you know, we, we, we, we were like Hillsong,
kind of churches. We got to Hillsong Conference. We did speaking in tongues. We did laying on
the hands. I remember coming off stage once after preaching. And it's always good when you
preached about the power of God and preached about what happened in the Bible and Acts. And I ran up
to, I was a youth pastor. I ran up to one of the youth who was probably, he was only a year younger
than me. So he was like a leader and it was an old school and I went up to him and I grabbed
like he was like laying his hands up like this, like in the worship moment. And I grabbed him,
like I touched his face like this to pray for him, which is what I felt the spirit led me to do.
And he flew backwards and passed out and just like grabbed him and he just on the ground.
And so it was like, I got the power. But it was, it was really, you know, there was a lot of like
really weird experiences like that. Or there was, you know, moments of like people having like what
look like seizures for hours. And we would just like laugh at them and like carry them to the next
prayer room and pray for them. Like it was bizarre, bizarre stuff. Yeah. So as a kid, I was, I was
always pretty introverted. And so I remember going to this one church here and like, they asked,
they asked the crowd because it was like a, it was like a youth service. They asked the crowd,
like, you know, if there's anybody struggling with anything, raise your hands. And so I was like,
I struggle with shit. And so they're like, why don't y'all come on up here and pray for Jesus,
you know, to help you out or something. And I, you know, I didn't want to go up there. Like I was,
I was a little embarrassed for one, but I was also very introverted. And so like, they noticed that
I raised my hand, but it didn't come up. And so they're like, why didn't you go up there? And I'm
like, you know, I just didn't, I just didn't want to. And so they're like, they like called in reinforcements.
And so imagine me, a teenager, and then there's like eight people surrounding me,
putting their hands on me praying. And I'm sitting there like, okay. Yeah. Yeah, I know. I did. Like,
I didn't, like, I didn't go up to the front for a reason, guys. There's no reason to form this
little circle around me right now, not possessed. Yeah. No, that's the, they did that. So I used to
do the altar calls where, you know, you'd go raise your hand and then that raise the hand,
like everyone close and then come at the front. But I found a technique that worked even better.
And that is to get people at the front. Because that's that my job as a preacher was to get people
to walk to the end of the diving board and to jump off into the Holy Spirit. That's what we,
we believe. That's what we taught. So I would say to them, okay, everyone, everyone to close their
eyes where they are. And I was like, okay, you know, and pray to God, blah, blah, blah. And then I
was like, God wants you to know that he loves you. And then I was like, if you feel that you
need prayer for something, I want you to raise your hand. And then a few scattered hands would go
up. And then you'd say, and then you'd say, okay, if you feel like your heart beating faster, that's
God calling you, God's calling you. So you start reaffirming their feelings. And then you go,
I'm going to count the three. And I want everyone to raise their hands. And I'd say one, God loves
you. He's there for you. He cares for you, blah, blah, blah, blah. Two, God's pulling on your heart.
He's calling you the angels of heaven, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And then I'd go and three, raise your hands and boom,
all these hands would go up and now I'm like, okay, everyone's raised the hands. I want you to
come up the front. There are so many of you. So many of us, I'm reaffirming there's so many of
you raised your hands. You're not going to be alone. Come up the front. And that act of people
getting up out of their seats, taking a step out in front of a crowd of a 100 cup, a couple
hundred people is such a euphoric feeling of like adrenaline. And it's scary. And
But you feel safe and, you know, if there was no such thing as, I can see how, you know,
if the church or the flying spaghetti wants to do something similar, I could see how people
would have similar reactions to that if they truly believed it.
So yeah, it's interesting to try and deconstruct all that.
Did you have, when you left your faith, did you have like a strong, like, did you find
it quite hard emotionally or did you?
I mean, it wasn't all that hard emotionally for me, like leaving the faith, but I mean,
I think that the reason for that is that I wasn't all that emotionally tied to my faith.
Like, you know, I had grown up believing, you know, as a fact of reality.
I guess the best way that I could compare it is like, if you grew up believing that,
let's say that all cars are red, you know, and then, you know, you figure out, well,
I don't believe that all cars are red, there are some blue cars out there or something
like that.
And, you know, it's just, oh, I totally accept that there are blue cars now.
So I wasn't really emotionally tied, you know, to believing in God, despite the fact
that I would go in and out, you know, of having these bouts of deep belief where I definitely
was emotionally tied to it.
But I think that that was more about, like, my clinical depression rather than actually
being, like, emotionally tied to it.
And so at the point where I was questioning things, I definitely was not all that emotionally
tied to it.
So it really didn't affect me emotionally.
Wow.
Okay.
That's interesting.
So you start this YouTube channel as an outlet for your newfound beliefs.
When do you become a Jesus mythicist?
Oh, it wouldn't be for maybe a few years, you know, afterwards.
Well, it was a few years after I became an atheist that I started doubting, you know,
whether or not Jesus existed.
And then I would say that I short up my personal view of it, you know, maybe a year or so after,
you know, I started kind of looking at all of the literature about it.
And, you know, the way that that happened was that, you know, I was, Facebook was where
it was at, like 2013, 2014 kind of atheism, at least the, where I was most active at was
Facebook, right?
And so what I would do is I'd go into these Facebook groups and I've had these discussions,
you know, I'd discuss, you know, what I thought about, you know, different aspects of, you
know, arguments against God existing where Jesus.
And so it got to this one point where they were talking about, you know, like evidence
for Jesus.
And I'm like, surely there's a historical evidence for Jesus.
I mean, we've got, you know, if that, you know, he surely existed.
So there's got to be some kind of evidence that points to his existence.
And I had somebody challenge me on that, like, well, why don't you provide me the evidence?
And so I went looking for it.
I mean, like I found the pilot stone, but I was, you know, of course, that doesn't prove
that Jesus existed.
It just proves that pilot existed and that says nothing about whether or not Jesus existed.
And, you know, so I went looking around for, you know, different pieces of evidence that
I really didn't find any good pieces of evidence.
But what I did, you know, stumble upon was David Fitzgerald's 10 Christian lies or
it was nailed 10 Christian lies.
So I stumbled upon that book and I read it.
And I think I eventually listened to the audiobook too.
And I listened to David Fitzgerald talk about it.
And then that kind of led me down the path of like, well, who are these other people
that are saying this?
And that led me to Richard Carrier, Randall Helms.
I don't think Randall Helms is a myth, but he's got great books, analyzing like the
New Testament and where all of the stories and everything like that for Jesus come from
and which is the Old Testament scriptures.
And so it just kind of led me down this path of, you know, I guess sort of taking a different
look at the historicity of Jesus.
And I came away like analyzing the evidence, looking at both sides, the arguments that
the historicists put forth and the arguments that mythists put forth.
And I just, I found that the mythist arguments seem to make a lot more sense given the evidence
that we have than the historicist argument.
I felt the historicist arguments were a lot more strained and they had to make more speculative
statements, more ad hoc reasoning and stuff like that.
So you know, I just had to sit there again, another point in my life where I was just
like, well, I guess I just don't believe that Jesus, you know, existed in the first place.
So yeah, that's, that's kind of how I came into that position.
You know, I can't remember when the first piece of content that I started making on
that was, it was probably around 2014 or 2015, time frame there.
But you know, I, you know, I started, I started making content on that just kind of, you know,
just kind of kept going with it as far as like researching into it and really diving
into the nitty gritty details of the actual arguments for and against.
Well, I think your first problem was you needed to look for Jesus in your heart, because
that's where shit.
Obviously, that's what historical Jesus is.
So a lot of people, I was at a staff part of the other week and they go, oh, you know,
who are you interviewing next?
I said, um, and none of these people are super religious.
Well, a couple guys are, but, um, and I go, um, I'm interviewing, um, a Jesus
mythos and that's what's that.
And I said, I was trying to explain it to them and they're looking at me like, that's
interesting.
That's an interesting idea.
And like, they've never heard it before.
So I was, I was wondering if you could give us like a brief introduction to what
because what mythosism is, because you mentioned too, there's also, there's the
cringey dope type of mythosist.
And then there's the scholarly, um, type of mythosist.
So I was wondering if you give us a brief introduction of what there's a
type of mythosism that you believe in, or you subscribe to.
So I should say.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, so for me, the kind of mythosism, uh, that I subscribe to is, is called minimal
mythosism, um, uh, or, or typically called the minimal mythosist hypothesis.
And that's basically like, what's the minimal case that would be needed in order
for, uh, you know, all of the evidence to make sense if Jesus, uh, didn't exist in
history.
And, uh, basically what that position is, is that, uh, of course, the
gospels are all, uh, fictional accounts of, uh, this celestial being known as Jesus.
And Paul, uh, he believed in a celestial version of Jesus.
That was the only kind of Jesus that he knew.
And, um, you know, the, this, the celestial Jesus is actually an archangel in Jewish,
uh, in Jewish ideology that it is meant to redeem the Jewish people, uh, for, you
know, their sins and, and all that.
And, um, basically allow them to, um, come, uh, basically allow them to get into
paradise or get into heaven, absolve them all of all their sins so that they're
not like suffering or whatnot anymore.
Um, and so, uh, that's, that's, that's pretty much a good, a good, uh, description of it.
It's, um, you know, it's, it's typically based in, um, you know, actual evidence
that we have, whether that be Paul's epistles, uh, other, uh, other writings that
we have from the time and, uh, an acknowledgement that there are writings that
we no longer have, but we do have indications of them existing in physical
documents, like, like empirical, uh, evidence that we have that they definitely
did exist.
Um, and so putting all of that together and kind of, you know, uh, acknowledging
that New Testament studies right now is, uh, a bit, um, broken in that you have
primarily, uh, Christians that are investigating this historical question.
Um, you're going to have a lot of religious bias that comes into play here.
And, um, I've actually been analyzing, like scholars that are commonly, uh, brought
up and suggested, and, uh, all of them seem to be, uh, theologically committed for
one reason or another, uh, to their faith.
So it's kind of hard to expect good arguments and evidence out of them.
But, uh, as far as minimal myth sys goes, uh, minimal myth sys goes, it's, you
know, there's a celestial Jesus.
Paul had visions of the celestial Jesus, uh, other people as well, not just Paul,
but other people as well had celestial visions of this Jesus that supposedly
absolved the sins, um, through his death and resurrection.
And, uh, then later people built historical stories upon the celestial Jesus
make, um, uh, you know, uh, making him into a historical figure.
And that's what we have today.
So you would, so I just want to touch, touch on a few of those things
just so I better understand.
So do you subscribe to the standard dates for, um, the epistles and the
Gospels?
So I think the epistles, when were the epistles written, uh, 50, 20 years
after the Jesus?
Yeah.
So it's between, I believe it's between 55 and like 65 or something
like that, that the epistles were written, at least the authentic ones.
So traditionally, traditionally, um, the non, the non exposition is Jesus
was crucified in 30, 30 to 33 AD, right?
Oh, uh, uh, see, depending on which gospel you read.
Yeah.
Yeah.
See, yeah.
See, yeah.
So then you've got, um, and then you've got the epistles, which were written
first, which were written 15, uh, 25 years later.
Is that right?
Something like that.
Then you have Mark, which was written 30 to 40 years after the fact, I think.
Yep.
And then, uh, Matthew and Luke were written around the same time.
And then John was our latest gospel written 95 CE.
Well, well, uh, so the only thing that I disagree with is Matthew and Luke
being written at the same time.
Matthew was written first and then Luke was written after Matthew.
Uh, because there are portions of Matthew, like Matthew's Greek that
appear in Luke's gospel.
And so the only way that that could happen is that Luke was copying from Matthew.
Okay.
Yeah.
That makes sense.
So, um, okay.
So when you say, uh, so what my understanding of mythic was, before we
originally spoke, um, was that, um, Jesus isn't real lol.
Okay.
So that's like the, the idea I had.
So when you say celestial being, what does that mean?
Um, well, so, uh, Jewish ideology.
And if you go back and, um, re, or at least maybe think about the old
Testament, uh, celestial beings are all over the place, uh, in, in the old
Testament, uh, in Jewish theology.
And so the, the, the idea is, is that this, um, celestial Jesus is just
another, uh, angel.
Well, specifically, uh, God's, what he considers to be the firstborn son,
firstborn son, God's logos.
Um, he's a, he like this, this isn't just some random celestial being.
He's definitely an important celestial being in, in the pantheon of
celestial beings in, in Judaism, but, um, he's just, he's a celestial being
that, uh, his role is to absolve, uh, you know, the Jewish people of their
sins or come back and save them, basically save that remnant that's always
being discussed about in the old Testament.
So I was something that I found quite interesting, um, when I was reading
Richard Carrier's book, um, on the historicity of Jesus, I think it's
called links in the description for all resources, by the way, um, is he
mentioned something about Einstein 53.
Um, and I think he, it seems as though he subscribes to that being a
reference to Jesus as the Messiah, where I thought that the scholarly
consensus at the moment, unless you talk to a fundamentalist was that, um, the
suffering servant was Israel.
Well, so there's a big, there's a big distinction to make here.
Like there's, there's nuance.
Um, so the, the two questions that we need to ask about Isaiah 53, what
did the original author mean?
Like what was his intent with it?
And then the other question is what did later Jewish, uh, and then eventually
Jewish Christians think about that particular section?
Okay.
So to answer your first question, uh, I think that the, the scholarly, um,
uh, consensus is definitely that the, the suffering servant is Israel.
That's who it was originally meaning.
But when you go on later to the first century, um, uh, BCE, uh, and onward,
you have this sort of a reinterpretation of Isaiah 53, uh, that seem where
they're taking it to be an indication of like the Messiah.
Like this is what the Messiah is supposed to do.
And is that in, is that in like, uh, um, is that in like Jewish sources
that are outside of the Hebrew Bible?
Or is that within the Hebrew Bible?
Well, no, it's, uh, it's from, uh, so as far as Jewish sources go that, that
take on that particular interpretation, uh, you have the Talmud, uh, which
admittedly was written hundreds of years afterwards.
But, uh, the thing is, is that it, it seems highly in, in, in, uh, plausible
that the Jews would come up with an interpretation of Isaiah 53 that would
directly coincide with what the Christians were saying and not even
mentioned the Christians, uh, you know, uh, or, or mentioned Jesus with respect
to Isaiah 53.
So the, the Talmud actually has a Messiah like theology contained within it
that includes, uh, Isaiah 53 as being an indication of what's to happen
to the Messiah, because in the Talmud and Jewish theology, the Messiah
is actually two people.
You have, uh, one Messiah that is to die, right?
For the sins of the Israelite people.
And then there's another Messiah that comes in, resurrects that first one
and, uh, saves a day.
And so with Christian theology, all you have to do is merge those two
into one and you have Jesus.
And so it's, it's literally like there's a split in, uh, and two, in
different sects of Jews that one, one is the more orthodox, I guess, version
of, of Judaism that, that continues on to today.
And then the other, uh, the other, uh, split is, uh, what eventually
turns into Christianity.
Um, and so we have evidence in both Judaism and in Christianity that
they were, they were interpreting Isaiah 53 by, you know, the first
century AD, um, to be about the Messiah.
So those are the two important questions that you have to ask with Isaiah 53
and sort of make the distinction between the two.
Hmm.
I've heard, um, I've heard, I think, but, um, and, um, I think in
Deborah Grace's book, crucifying the Bible, she mentioned how the, the,
the Messiah was supposed to be like a king, like, like an earth that like
destroyed Israel's enemies and stuff.
And that's why Jesus didn't fit that because obviously he didn't.
Um, and Christians are reinterpreted to be like demons and, and he saved
the world through their sins or something rather than what it was originally.
What do you think about that?
Um, well, so we, we, we definitely have like real evidence of the Jews
interpreting, uh, the Messiah to be that way, because, you know, we have, uh,
in, uh, preserved in Josephus, we've got several different failed
Messiahs that we're trying to be those conqueror Messiahs.
And, um, the, the big difference is, is that, um, you know, whereas, you
know, these, these physical, uh, conquering Messiah is all failed.
Jesus is the only Messiah that supposedly, you know, through his death,
even though he also died, which not all of the Messiahs, like that Josephus
records died, like the Egyptian is one that, that doesn't, I don't think that
he's recorded as dying.
He just sort of abandons, you know, his, his, his whole campaign.
But, um, you know, you have Jesus through his death is, is completing
this, uh, promise that God had made in the Old Testament.
And, uh, the, the thing that you got to keep in mind here is that the
beliefs of the Jewish people were not monolithic a lot.
Like Bart, Bart Ehrman and, and other scholars like him will, will try
to focus on this idea that the Jews thought the, that the Messiah was
supposed to be a conqueror.
Well, that's somewhat true because there were Jews that believe that.
And that may have been, right.
That may have been the mainstream view of the Messiah, but it definitely
wasn't like all Jews thought this.
And so when you consider that there were different groups out there,
like the Essenes, uh, who had wildly different ideas than the orthodox or
the mainstream Jewish, uh, beliefs, um, you'll see that it, it's very likely
that there was a group out there that considered the Messiah to be the
celestial, uh, figure that wasn't supposed to like defeat the Romans or
anything like that, but he was supposed to defeat, uh, the devil.
He was supposed to, because, and that, that comes from Zoroastrianism, right?
They were integrating Zoroastrianism, uh, Zoroastrianism, uh, into the
Jewish belief and that's where you get the devil from.
And so the devil, the devil makes a much bigger appearance than the New
Testament and God's missing.
God's not really there.
Um, yeah.
Well, and, and that's, and that's because in, in, um, there was this big
syncretism with Judaism and these other surrounding pagan beliefs.
And one of those pagan beliefs is Zoroastrianism.
And what they get from Zoroastrianism is the burning hellfire, uh, place
where you go if you're bad and you have this, uh, ultimate enemy of God being
the devil.
And so when they were in, when they were syncretizing all these different
pagan beliefs, including Zoroastrianism, they ended up with this devil figure.
And I mean, the devil figure is not like, uh, this, this physical presence,
like here on earth, like it's not the Romans or anything like that.
It's, it's this celestial, uh, sort of presence that, that Jesus is supposed
to, you know, uh, conquer.
And he's, and they interpreted their Old Testament scriptures.
They breathe or I should say they reinterpret their Old Testament
scriptures to seem to indicate that this, uh, this Messiah was to die and
overcome death by resurrecting, therefore defeating like the devil, uh, in that way.
And so there's, there's, there's a lot of reinterpretation and I just to get
back around to it, you have to understand that Jewish, uh, early Jewish beliefs
were not monolithic.
They had a diverse set of beliefs and it's, uh, very, very plausible that this
was one of them.
And there's, there's a lot of different references that we can come up
with where, you know, you have these early Christians and Jewish Christians
that believed in these, you know, celestial beings, like the fact that the
devil resides, uh, in the, uh, the devil and his demons reside in the lower
part of the heavens, which would be right on top of the firmament.
Um, even Paul himself says that the devil controls the world.
Uh, he's the prince of the air or, uh, he's the ruler of this, uh, of this, uh,
era or age, uh, ruler of this world, uh, that that's, that's how he describes
the devil.
So, um, the, the, these, these ideas, while they may seem weird, they wouldn't
have seemed weird to first century Jews and Jewish Christians.
Interesting.
Yeah.
I find that, um, uh, um, Michael Granado, um, who have had on the brilliant, um,
uh, philosophizer and history, um, teacher, he, he said that, um, he said to me,
he said, um, they operate, uh, people of the first century or antiquity, um, were,
were in a different universe than us.
Like they, they, they references, they're thinking everything was so different.
It's almost impossible to just take a layman's perspective and view, view the
stuff that you read and say, oh, that's what they thought because it's a
different universe, it's a completely different universe.
It's just, it's so different.
Um, and so it always amazes me when you have people that say, oh, you know, they
wouldn't have believed this thing.
Like you have a lot of apologists.
I believe even Bart Ehrman is known to, to say this, that the early Jews, uh, and
Jewish Christians, they wouldn't have believed in a suffering and dying Messiah.
But it's very obvious that they would have because they did.
You know, and, and the, the fact that they, they lived it, like they had a
totally different concept of how this universe was constructed back then and
what was real and what wasn't.
And, uh, I think once you consider that and you kind of step outside of this
idea that, you know, that what makes sense to you is what are the only things
that would make sense to these early Jews and Jewish Christians.
I think once you step outside of that, you can, you can understand how, oh, yeah,
definitely they'd believe in ghosts in your blood.
You know, I mean, they, you know, they believe in crazy things like that.
Yeah.
Uh, okay.
So I'm going to, I'm pouring myself, I'm putting another shot down into this
glass, pouring some more Sprite and I'm gonna, you know, I'm, I'm just glad that
you, you like it enough to where you'll have.
Oh dude, it's actually really delicious.
And I've been doing this.
It's giving me good buzz.
Um, I'm going to, uh, uh, I know that when we spoke for the first time, you
mentioned, um, some scriptures.
So, um, I'm going to ask, I want to ask you now.
Okay.
So let's say I'm someone who's just heard this, listening to this podcast and
they just heard the mythos theory for the first time or idea hypothesis.
Um, and they're going, okay, where, okay, where, where is John getting these ideas?
Um, you mentioned Paul.
I thought maybe we could start with Paul.
Why do you think Paul is talking about a celestial Jesus?
Well, um, so for one thing, there's no reference in Paul that unambiguously, uh,
talks about Jesus as a historical figure.
Um, and there, there are, there are different passages where, you know, uh,
Paul talks about Jesus being born and all this other stuff, but the problem with
that is, and, and you have to do, you do have to get a little bit into the Greek.
Um, and, and, and, uh, and understand what the Greek words that he used, uh, meant.
Um, but as far as like, why would you, why would you do that when Jesus was the
wrote in English and he was the greatest American that had ever lived?
You know, there you go.
Mythosism defeated.
Yeah.
Why go to the Greek when you just read it in English?
Yeah.
Yeah.
But, but, uh, you know, the Greek interlinear texts are easy to find on, on the web.
And, uh, you know, you can even get whole ass books that have the Greek
in a linear in it.
And you can see what words are used, how those words are used, uh, in the
Cohen Greek and everything like that.
You can also find, um, places where Paul talks about other people being born where
he uses a completely different word for being born.
That's more explicitly about being born than it is about, uh, that then, then the
word is, uh, what that he uses to talk about Jesus's birth, but the, the word
that he uses to talk about Jesus's birth is more like he came to be like, like
he, he just sort of, uh, manifested in some kind of way.
Not exactly the way cause like when you talk about somebody being born, you
don't say, Oh yeah, that guy manifested one day in 1984.
You know, you don't talk about him like that.
Uh, but Paul, when he talks about Jesus's birth, he normally talks about it as
if Jesus's body was manufactured in some kind of fashion.
So there's that.
And, um, then if you look in Galatians one 11, you'll actually find that, uh, Paul
separates himself completely from, uh, any historical sourcing.
He claims that he did not get any of this information about Jesus from man.
He only got it from, uh, reading the scriptures.
And then, uh, in, uh, in other places, he, he gets it from, um, uh, visions.
Um, so those are the two places, huh?
He says, I just reading it out, he says, I want you to know, brothers and sisters,
that the gospel I preach is not of human origin.
That's the NIV translation.
Yes.
Uh, so the, the God and the gospel being the death and, uh, the resurrection, uh,
and the absolution of sins that, that Jesus provides, right?
Like the basic theology of Christianity, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, how Jesus's death
absolves sins and everything like that.
And that's, uh, that, that's what he's talking about there.
So a lot of people push back on that by saying, well, you think Paul was the
first Christian or you think that Paul didn't hear about Jesus from other people.
And, uh, obviously I don't think that because, uh, Paul talks about, uh,
persecuting Christians before him.
So obviously he had some kind of interaction with them.
But the important part here is that, uh, Paul was saying that the, the, despite
anything that he had heard before, the things that he know, he knows are true
about Jesus and his, his death, his resurrection, his absolution of sins,
all of that is due to, um, you know, having visions of Jesus and reading
the scriptures and being guided by this celestial form of Jesus.
And so that, that, that's why I think that Paul only ever mentions a celestial
Jesus is because he's never explicit about getting any kind of information
from anybody on earth or referencing anybody on earth about Jesus.
So it seems to me like there's a more parsimonious explanations for the very
few verses that you can pull out, uh, about, uh, you know, Jesus that Paul
mentions, and, uh, you can actually make a better case on the idea that he's
talking about a celestial version or at least maybe not a celestial version,
but just that he's not talking about a historical reference to Jesus.
And so it seems, it seems like Paul is completely separated himself from any
kind of history that, that would normally be done.
Okay.
So is, is, uh, is, so the road to Damascus, um, for, for those who don't know,
it's when, um, Paul had this experience, um, blinding light.
It sounds like a seizure or some sort of, um, we have some medical ideas
of what it might have been, um, at the time.
Um, but he was, he was on the road to, he was post-sacrificing Christians,
right?
He was, um, um, charging them or doing, or doing whatever he was doing or killing
them.
I'm not sure exactly what he was doing, um, when he was named Saul.
Uh, so, so how do you think the Christian sex started?
What, what was Christianity at that time?
Or do you think it just, it was a branch that was getting more and more popular,
a branch of Judaism that was getting more popular because of this, uh, this thought,
well, this idea of like becoming Messiah.
Yes.
Well, so what you've, uh, what you've got is you've got the Jews being
promised by God in the Old Testament, you know, to be saved that, that God, like
there's several different references in the Old Testament that you could
definitely peg is talking about at least Jesus and, and what he's supposed to do.
Like, you know, God is supposed to save his remnant and all this other stuff.
And so you've got this big lead up to it and then nothing happens.
And so what you end up with is, you know, right there, first century BCE and
first century AD, you, you seem to have this, uh, uh, revolution in Jewish
thought where they're trying to syncretize, uh, Jewish ideas with
surrounding pagan and Hellenistic ideas.
And, uh, we, we have evidence of this from the Jews themselves in the
form of Philo of Alexandria, uh, Philo of Alexandria, you know, he talks
about his logos, which is described in the exact same ways that Paul describes
Jesus and the logos, uh, under Philo's, um, identification of them is an
archangel in Jewish ideology that is supposed to, uh, you know, provide
salvation for the Jewish people, like he's the guy that's supposed to do that.
And then you have, uh, Paul talking about Jesus in the exact same way that
Philo's talking about his logos, uh, you know, in the gospel of John, you
even have, uh, the author calling Jesus the logos talking about how he is the
logos, how he is the word, like, uh, what was the first line in John?
Um, something about the word, the word being with God or whatnot.
Um, and so there's this whole idea of, uh, in both Paul and in like later
gospel, like the gospel, John of, of, uh, this, um, uh, Jesus or this archangel
figure being pre-existent to like everything being, uh, you know, the, uh,
what, what Philo and both Philo and Paul say, uh, that everything was created
through this archangel person, right?
Uh, with Paul being Jesus and Philo being logos, uh, everything was created to them.
And so, um, what we have is this revolutionary syncretism with Judaism
and other pagan beliefs.
And so what we have is just a sort of a gradual development of a certain sect
of Judaism that believes that the Messiah has already come, died, resurrected
and dissolved sins.
And, um, you, uh, one, one piece of a, a good piece of evidence for this is
actually a lost gospel that we only know about because of Irenaeus in the
second century, um, Irenaeus talks about this sect that believes that, um, Jesus
came, uh, suffered and died in silence.
Like nobody knew that Jesus had come and done any of that.
The only indication that they were given was when Jesus revealed himself
after his resurrection.
And so we've got Irenaeus saying that and then we've got Paul, you know,
earlier in the first century, uh, talking about how this, the celestial
being, uh, Jesus was giving him all of these different visions.
Even when he talks about the Lord's supper, which a lot of people
misidentify as the last supper, but it's Paul identifies it as the Lord's
supper, uh, even then the, and I forget, which I think it's in one of the Corinthians.
But, um, when, um, Paul's describing this Lord's supper, he says that he
received it in the exact same way that he received everything else.
And that would be through a vision of Jesus.
And so I, I think that, uh, Jewish Christians, which would be the first
Christians, the Jewish Christians or a sect of Jews that developed slowly due
to this syncretism with Judaism and surrounding pagan and Hellenistic ideas.
Interesting.
So I just went to, um, John, um, the first, uh, John, which is the last gospel.
And I'm just going to read out the, um, start of that.
Um, in the beginning was the word and the word was with God and the word was God.
He was with God in the beginning through him.
All things were made without him.
Nothing was made that he, um, that has been made in him was life and life, um,
was the light of all mankind.
The light shines in the darkness and the darkness has not overcome it.
And then in verse six, it says, there was a man sent from God.
His name was John.
So it's interesting that there's like this delineation between like what is
describing as Jesus there and what is describing as John, like a man, John's
just a man.
Um, it's interesting.
I never, I never picked that up until you just mentioned it then, um, about, about John.
So, okay.
So we've gone through Paul, um, and we touched a little on the gospel.
So what were the gospel writers doing?
Were they trying to, uh, personify this, um, this celestial being in a content?
Were they trying to deceive people or were they kind of writing a story that was, um,
like trying to personify this celestial being to be like a real figure,
like Hercules or something?
What, what do you think they were doing?
Well, um, I guess I'll answer this with a question to maybe get you to think, um,
do you think that the, um, whoever wrote like the Pentateuch, the Old Testament,
do you think that they were trying to deceive like the Jews when they wrote
about the Garden of Eden or they wrote about Noah's flood or anything like that?
Um,
Oh, that's a good, that's a very good question.
Cause I don't think, cause Dr. Josh got me on a whole other jam with all that stuff.
He mentioned how Exodus, uh, Genesis one to 11 is a polemic against Mesopotamia,
but it's stories that are fictional, but they serve a purpose as a, as a, as a real story,
um, to push against, push back against, uh, Mesopotamia myth.
So, so yeah, you, I mean, I don't, I will, I obviously don't believe there was a global flood.
I don't believe now I'm an eve or anything like that.
Um, well, yeah, but, but, but, uh, where they're trying to deceive people, probably not know.
No, yeah.
So I don't, I don't think that the gospel writers were trying to deceive anybody.
What I think that they were trying to do was tell stories about Jesus that were to communicate
the tenants of Christianity.
Um, and, and also give, uh, you know, this sort of, uh, maybe a little bit of a historical air
about it that, you know, uh, you know, in telling these stories, it was meant, and even Jesus in
Mark, I can't remember the chapter, but in Mark, um, Jesus explicitly says that these are parables
that, um, only the initiated will understand the meaning of these parables to the outside world.
They'll just seem like stories.
And this is kind of like a, like an internal admission right there that, you know, um, and
this comes from like, uh, John Dominic Cross, and, uh, he, he, he has this fantastic book called
The Power of Parable where, uh, you know, he puts forth that the, the gospels themselves are just
gigantic parables, um, that are meant to teach lessons, uh, to the Christians.
And it's very easy to see.
And so like, um, with the gospel writers, they were trying to show that this Jesus was definitely
the Messiah. Uh, they were trying to show that he was a prophet of God and that, you know, the
things that he would have done here on earth, if there was any kind of like historical mention
about him, uh, would have been in line with what was already in the Old Testament because
like all, nearly all of the miracles in the New Testament have roots in the Old Testament,
uh, every, every single one of them.
So, uh, it, it seems like this is a, a giant, uh, explanation as to why Jesus provides the
salvation that he does, why Jesus is considered a, uh, the last prophet of God and why Jesus
is essentially the Messiah.
And so I feel like it's, uh, each, each gospel is told to fit a certain, uh, group of Christians
because it's representative of at least four different groups of Christians that had different
beliefs about Jesus and what he did. Uh, you know, so supposedly with his, uh, maybe not
necessarily historically because we even have like, um, uh, origin and, uh, early church,
other early church fathers that admit that these stories about Jesus are the exact same
as other pagan gods that exist. They call them the, uh, the sons of Zeus, uh, I believe.
Um, and so that you, you have them admitting that, yeah, this Jesus is the exact same,
but he's better and he's better because he's Jewish. And so just like you were saying with the,
you know, the first bit of Genesis being a pushback against, you know, these other cultures,
I think that the Gospels are a pushback against these other pagan religions.
All the other religions out there that, uh, you know, put Jesus in this very, um, elevated
position of being better than all these other ones because he was Jewish and, you know, and,
and so it was just a way of spreading the religion and showing that they are far better
than the other religions that are out there. Interesting. I, I, uh, one of the, one of the
biggest points against Christianity in my opinion, and this would work for, um, Methodism as well,
is that we have, we do have historians at the time, right? Writing at the time of Jesus's life.
Um, is that true? I'm, I'm, I know we have Josephus. He was after the fact, but
yeah, you do have writing. Well, so Paul, um, and I know a lot of, this is where I push back with
a lot of Methodists, uh, in that, uh, you know, a lot of Methodists will say, well, you can't use
the Bible to justify the Bible, but you know, we, you have to take into consideration that the Bible
is a collection of books, like it's a collection of writings. And so Paul is in the Bible, but he
is our earliest indication of a Jesus, uh, figure, right? So he's, he's our earliest one that's
writing at the time. And then as far as secular historians go, I believe that Josephus comes
right after that. And then, uh, everything else occurs in the second century and onward. So, um,
we don't have much as far as like first century goes, but, um, I, I don't think that, uh, that
other, other than Christians themselves, there's no secular historian that, uh, really mentions
Jesus in the first century, you know, with the caveat of Josephus that maybe we'll go into here
in a minute. So is, but there were historians, right? Like they had to be, there were some people
writing stuff down. Oh yes. Well, as far as people writing stuff down that typically historians now
would look to in order to, uh, know certain things about history, there were definitely
a lot of people that were writing at that time that should have noted something, um, about,
about Jesus that, that had reasons to mention Jesus unambiguous. But we don't actually have
like any, like all of those authors seem to not reference any kind of, of Jesus that we know.
Because the biggest, the biggest thing for me is, you know, Matthew talks about when Jesus died
at the moment the curtains of the temple were torn in two from top to bottom of the earth's
shook, the rock split and the tombs broke open. The bodies of many holy people who had died were
raised to life and came out of the tombs after Jesus' resurrection and went into the city and
appeared to many people. So technically they're not zombies because zombies have to be brought
up by black magic, I think, but they sound an awful lot like zombies and appear to many people
and no historian wrote these down. Like to me, this is, this is a lot more, I mean, they were
writing like trivial things at the time, like, you know, who owed someone money or whatever,
like just random stuff. Well, yeah. So, so there is, there is one particular argument where people
try to suggest that that's a real historical event, at least the, the eclipse and the,
the earthquake. And that's through Thales and Flagon, I believe are the two sources.
But the problem is with those particular sources, they're not extant to us now. And it's actually
like a third hand reporting of it. Because actually somebody reciting Julius Africanus,
who was reciting those, those guys. But in any case, the actual sources don't, don't put the
earthquake as happening anywhere near, you know, the time in which it would have, plus we don't
have any empirical evidence, like in the geology, that there was an earthquake at that time. But
some, I believe it's Thales that mentions an eclipse, but even within that, that source itself,
it talks about how this doesn't make sense because there would not have been an eclipse at this time.
And they never tie the eclipse to happening at a specific point in history. They just sort of
ambiguously talk about an eclipse. So there's no, there's no real good evidence that any of that
happened. But I do want to mention that a little bit of a fun fact here. Did you know that Michael
Lacona lost two jobs and speaking engagements because he said that that was just apocalyptic
imagery? He wasn't even denying that it was, it wasn't real. Like he was just like, oh, that's
apocalyptic imagery. And they're like fired, fucker. There's a few, there's a few, the few
Christians that Christian like scholars and all preachers that I have some, you know, respect
for. And I think Michael Lacona engages with things kind of like, you have to compare them to
what they're up against, right? Like when you've got Ken Hover on one side and you've got Michael
Lacona on the other side, like I'm going for Michael each time. He's just, he's got some,
you know, he's got a lot more reasonable than I'm a lot. Yeah. So, so in regards to
mythicism, I have a lot of questions from my discord and I was wondering if we could jump
through some of those now. Oh, sure. Because they, they, they, it talks about like some of the
things we mentioned, like Josephus and things like that. And if this kind of kind of blends
into some more talking points, that's totally fine as well. But so do you think, as I said,
this is from one of my discord mods, Jacob, do you think historians, Tacitus and Josephus,
due to their positive views towards Christ or negative views towards Nero,
displayed bias in their records of Jesus's existence?
Well, so I, for me, like those particular references, you don't really even have to get
into like their biases or anything like that. So taking each of those one at a time with Tacitus,
I think that, you know, I could, I could take Tacitus at face value. Like, yeah, sure. He's
talking about Christ or whatnot. But the only thing that that tells us is that there were
Christians in Rome in 64 CE. And so I don't see how that should affect mythicism in any
kind of way. It does talk about stuff that you find in the New Testament. But the problem with
that is, is that Tacitus was actually in conversation, he was like a pen pal with Pliny the
Younger, who was busy interrogating Christians in the next, you know, the next country over or
whatnot. So he could have easily gotten that information from Pliny the Younger in his
correspondence with him. So the best that Tacitus gives us, and I'm not, and this isn't just me
pulling this out of my ass, I'm actually getting this from Robert Van Voorst, who's a Christian
New Testament scholar. There's no way to know where Tacitus is getting this information. So
there's no way that we can say that it's independent of the New Testament, considering that Tacitus
was writing in the second century. He probably had three, if not all, four of the major gospels
available to him. So he, in one way or another, either directly or indirectly through Pliny,
he could have gotten that information in some kind of way. So without a way to distinguish
what his sources were for that information, there's no way that we can use that as like
direct evidence that Jesus existed. And then with Josephus, obviously I'm in the camp that
thinks that both of the instances in Josephus are interpolated. I think that the Testimonium
Flavianum, the big ad for Jesus in Book 18, is a malicious interpolation either by
Eusebius or Eusebius's mentor, either one, but it doesn't show up in the history record until
Eusebius mentions it. So it had to be inserted at some point right there. There's been multiple
scholars that have noticed that the structure of it is different than Josephus and the way that
Josephus writes about everything else. So there's a lot of, I've got a whole like clipped video on
my clips channel where I kind of go through extensively all of the arguments against it.
But so, sorry, I'll link that in the description. So just for my audience's sakes,
and also a bit of my sake, so Josephus is a first century historian who was born around the time
the traditional view of Jesus died. So he was born around 30 CE or something. Oh, Jesus,
I can't get it wrong. Let's forget about that. Forget about that. Blank that. Cut that.
He was the first century historian, right? A secular historian. And a lot of people mentioned
that Josephus, a lot of people say that Josephus, he was a Jew, but he mentioned that he mentioned
Jesus as the Messiah, which a Jew would never do. So, you know, because then he wouldn't be a Jew.
So he'd be a Christian. So is that the only arguments for those scriptures, those parts of
his history books? This rump, sorry, this is catching up with me. So is that the only sections
that are not, like, is that the only reason we don't classify them as, like, we classify them as
being injected into the scripts after the fact? Oh, no. That's not the only reason. In fact,
the most popular apologetic for the testimony in Flavianum is that it's partially interpolated.
So basically, you take out all the really Christian parts and you replace them with
non-Christian sort of references. And that's probably what Josephus wrote. But the problem
with that is that we don't have any evidence that actually existed at any point in history.
And so not, but the reason why we know this is that, you know, there's some people that say
that there's a Syriac and Arabic version of it that has the original, that preserves the original.
But Alice Wheely has actually shown that both of those versions are ultimately copied from
Eusebius's version. So those are actually later redactions. So the only version that we know of
is the one with the very highly Christianized verses in it. But that still isn't what convinces
people that it was interpolated or inserted into Josephus's work. Stuff like verb usage,
the structure of the passage, the fact that the passage is awkwardly worked into that particular
section. So like, if you remove that section, the passages around it seem to flow into one
another seamlessly. And that's one of the indications that you can generally use to determine
if a passage was interpolated into a piece of work. Because if it is, then the past,
all the stuff around it should flow together fine, like it was never there. And that's exactly
what you see in Josephus. That's of course not a nail in the coffin or anything like that. What I
would consider to be the nail in the coffin is the fact that the structure of that particular
passage follows along with the Amos Road story in Luke pretty well. The fact that the grammar
and structure of it in general is different from Josephus's surrounding work is a pretty big
nail in the coffin for me. The fact that nobody mentions Josephus writing about this, even when
Origen was specifically looking for references to Jesus, him not mentioning Josephus talking
about Jesus in this light, even if it's not the highly Christianized version of it, it's a more
Jewish version of it. The fact that Origen complains about Josephus not mentioning Jesus
is kind of a big nail for me. There's a lot of different reasons to consider it to be
interpolated. Like I said, that video that I'm going to give David to put in the description
has several different reasons along with the scholars that have put them out there
and references to where you can go and look up the stuff for yourself that'll be in that video.
Awesome. First of all, I want everyone to go subscribe to Godless Engineer. He just pumps
out content after content after content on all this stuff. A lot of it goes over my head,
but it maybe doesn't go over your head, so go subscribe to Godless Engineer.
Am I understanding that the first that we don't have the original copy of Josephus's work?
Right. I think the copy that Extent2 is now comes from the 10th century or something like
that. The 10th century? I think, yeah. Whoa. That's okay. I thought maybe you
that's okay. That's quite late. Okay. Wow. I didn't know that. Next question. What would convince you
that the Bible is accurate? Oh, let's see. What would convince me that the Bible is
accurate at this point? I guess this isn't necessarily a mythicist question. This is more
of just broadly. Right. I mean, you would have to upend all of history in order to make the
Bible fit in history. Unless we found something that totally reverses everything we know about
history, I don't think that there'd be anything that could change my mind about the Bible and its
truth. Because there's very obviously some things that are not, there are a lot of things in the
Bible that are not true. If you're talking about the Gospels, specifically about Jesus's life,
the problem that I have, one of the major problems I have with the Gospels is that they
don't cite their sources. We don't have any sources for where they got this information.
If we could somehow find like an authentic firsthand account of Jesus and the things that he
did, that would change my mind. But the problem is that that would be really hard because you're
looking at a very, very small timeframe. Because if you think about it, Jesus supposedly died in
the 30s, right? And then you have the 70s is when the Gospels are being written. So you've only got
a 40-year time span right there where you have to find some kind of written piece of work that
describes this Jesus that's totally independent from Paul and other Christians at the time.
So it's a very difficult thing to find, but that would have to be the criteria for
to change my opinion on that.
I mean, doesn't John mention like, these are written from firsthand accounts? Like, I've
talked to people who are there. Sorry, when I say John, I mean the anonymous author of the Book of John.
Yeah, well, see, the problem is though, is that when you do textual analysis on the Book of John,
you have a very blatant fact that John is using the other Gospels in order to create his narrative.
Because I don't know how you reconcile this, but you know that there's two totally different
Lazaruses in the Gospels. No, I don't. Well, I don't believe in any of the Bible. So I don't,
I just, like, I think a lot of it is just, you know, like, I think a lot of it is just people
not making up stuff, but people like recording stuff they heard and then, you know, details get
wrong. I didn't know that there were two different Lazaruses, so. Oh, yeah. Well, okay. So do you
recall the Lazarus in Luke, how it's a parable about, you know, Lazarus is, he's going to,
or he's in hell or something like that, and he wants to be saved, but he can't be saved and he
can't like, I can't remember what it is. He's like in the bosom of Abraham or something like that.
He wants, like, water to people in his tongue or something.
Maybe, I don't know, and I can't remember the exact parable, but in Luke it's a parable about
this poor man named Lazarus, right? But then John comes along and he doesn't like that story,
and so he rewrites Lazarus to be a physical resurrection. Because in the Lazarus story in Luke,
it's basically, there's no miracle that I could do that would convince people, you know,
that I'm the prophet or that would convince people to believe in me. But the exact opposite
message is in John. John uses the resurrection of Lazarus to convince everybody immediately
about his prophet status and how he's the prophet of God. And so this is one instance
where there's a direct connection between the two where John is refuting these prior gospels. So
could John have gotten eyewitness testimony considering that he was most likely written in
the second century? I doubt it, but at the same time, just like with the other gospels,
if you have first-hand accounts, then why do you need to copy other accounts in order to
create more accounts, you know? So all of the gospels, well, Luke's gospel, and then I guess
maybe John's gospel claims to have eyewitness accounts, but both of them claim it, but they
never really give any kind of source like indications of who these people were, why they
would have been good sources to use in the first place. So there's nothing that we can say about
them just that they claim that they're eyewitness accounts. But then there's that conflict with
copying the other gospels, so it's kind of weird. Interesting. Is it possible to prove or disprove
the historical existence of Jesus anymore due to the gospels being far too religiously centric
and the historical records being far too away and not accurate or detailed enough?
Well, see, that's where the real interesting conversation exists. And typically, it's between
a couple of atheists that the interesting conversation happens, because we can't say for
100% certain whether or not Jesus existed. I think that the hardest position that you could
take is agnosticism on it, right? Like, I just don't know, because we don't have good records,
we don't have any kind of good indications, and you can make sense of the evidence that we have
given the idea that Jesus was historical and given the idea that he was celestial. So there's not
really any kind of idea as to whether or not he was historical, at least not in a very uncertain
way, right? Or a certain way. We can't be certain about it. But that's where the interesting
conversation exists, because then you're having to try to explain the evidence that we have,
and you have to come out as either being, well, he was more likely to be historical,
or he was more likely to be mythical, and this celestial figure. So it really depends there,
like which sides you land on. As soon as you can get past all the gospel nonsense and everything
like that, when you're dealing with the nitty gritty history of it, you just really can't
say for sure. So unless we find new information, I don't think that we'll really be able to determine
whether or not he was historical. Like, as far as 100%. Yeah, yeah, yeah. What would convince you,
sorry, what books would you recommend? Oh, okay, definitely. So there are some really good books,
obviously, Richard Carrier's On the History of Jesus. It's a thick read. It's a pretty thick boy.
So that's a good one. But as far as something that's a little bit more pop level, Carrier has
his new book, Jesus from outer space, that is very pop level. It doesn't have all the nitty
gritty details on the history of Jesus does, but it does have him explaining the whole idea
in very layman's terms. So there's that. Then there's also another good book to get is Randall
Helms Gospel Fictions. And this is more about how the Gospels were created using the Old Testament
scriptures. And they go through like all the miracles, they go through information about Jesus
and how that's lifted from the Old Testament. Randall Helms does a pretty good job of that.
There are some things in there that are not exactly supported by the evidence. It's more
speculative, but you can definitely tell when he's being more speculative than he is more empirical,
because when he's referencing the connection between the New Testament and the Old Testament,
he actually has quotes that he pulls out and he shows you how the Greek is exactly the same here
and here kind of thing. So you can easily determine that. But you've also got David Fitzgerald is a
good book to get started with. He's got four books currently on the topic of mythicism.
He's got his first one nailed, which kind of introduces you to the topic.
And then he's got his three books, which fun fact, I did the cover art for his three books,
Jesus, Myth and Action. Yeah, I did the cover art, like even the back cover and everything
like that for that. But he's got three books there that kind of explain it. The first book in that
series is actually really important because he does like an independent study of the
degree granting institutions in the United States and shows that a majority of them require
statements of faith in order to either go there or work there. And so that's a pretty big compromise
on the academic integrity of the field in general. So that's where you can find that.
And let's see, John Dominic Crossen's Power of Parable, that's a really good book. If you're
looking to see how the Gospels are constructed as long parables, he's got a lot of great stuff in
there. There's so many books out there that I could recommend. But as far as the ones that you'll,
that anybody can kind of pick up and sort of read, those are the ones that I'd probably go to.
Awesome. All the links will be in the description for anyone who's interested.
There's also, did you mention the, because you mentioned, when we had our conversation,
you mentioned a book called Questioning the Historicity of Jesus. Is that another good one?
Yeah, it is a good one, but it's a little unattainable because it's marketed towards
university libraries and stuff. So it's like $200 or more. I think I was going to buy it and I was
like, oh, it's a little, it's a little too much. But I will say that the best thing about
Raphael's book is that he foregoes like all of the apologetics about the historicity of Jesus,
right? And he focuses in on the most recent defense of the historical Jesus from an atheist,
which is Bart Ehrman. And but the problem is, is that Bart Ehrman employs a lot of dubious tactics
in order to make his case. And that's what Raphael Lataster really highlights really well in that
book, is how dubious the case that Bart Ehrman makes actually is. And so it's really good for
that. But I definitely would not suggest buying it for $200. Yeah, okay, fair enough. Well, links
in the description if anyone wants to buy it for $200, but so I've got a couple of last quick
questions that are kind of a bit fun. Well, there's two that are kind of serious and then one that's
just fun. Okay, so regarding, so this is a bit different. This is similar to the one we just
had, but a bit different regarding mythicism. What if anything would change your mind?
What if anything would change my mind? Like I said, you know, finding some kind of independent
account of Jesus that exists prior to the Gospels being written, and we can verify is
independent, you know, from all other like Christian writings at the time. I think that
that would be a really good start. I think that, you know, that that would at least probably push
me onto the side of most likely history, historicity. But other than that, like, just finding one
piece of information that could only exist because Jesus was a historical figure is and,
you know, finding that independent account would be an example of that. The one thing that or at
least one thing that could only exist if Jesus was a historical figure. And just to give you an
example, like with Julius Caesar crossing the Rubicon, there's a lot of things in history that
just simply wouldn't have happened unless Julius Caesar crossed the Rubicon. And so if you take
Julius Caesar crossing the Rubicon out, then you don't have an explanation for why all those other
things happened. And Julius Caesar crossing the Rubicon explains everything perfectly. So if we
could find something like Julius Caesar crossing the Rubicon for Jesus in that like these subsequent
events just simply wouldn't have happened at all if Jesus had been a historical person. And I don't
think that we actually have that piece of information right now. Like I think that everything that came
after Jesus supposedly died or whatever, it makes sense on a celestial figure just as much as it
makes sense on a historical figure. But if we could find that one piece of information that was,
you know, wholly predicated on him being a historical figure, then I would be swayed
towards the historicist side. Awesome. Okay. Very similar again, but regarding this is much
broader regarding your God belief. So this is not just Christian God, but any God created
of the universe. What if anything would change your mind? Okay, that's a good question. I think
typically what I say is that we would need to find, you know, something that could only be explained
by a suspension of the natural order of reality. So like, which a lot of people would interpret
that as being a miracle, I don't think it necessarily has to be a miracle per se. But we would just
need to be able to determine that for one thing, the natural order of reality isn't as uniform
as we've known it to be, so that it can be interrupted sporadically and randomly. And
if we can somehow prove that, that that happens, then I think that that would get me closer to
believing that a God could exist. But in order to prove any certain definition of God,
you would have to do like a lot of work, like in order to prove that a specific God exists.
Because I don't think that I'm very hard atheist, I'm Gnostic atheist on all the current definitions
of God. So it had to be some kind of, you know, definition of God that we just simply don't have
right now. Interesting, interesting. Okay. And this is the last, this is a fun question,
because obviously, as an atheist, as a heathen, you probably believe that when you die, that's it,
right? Yeah. Yeah. You probably go to the same place you were before your birth, for the last,
you know, 13.8 billion years, you probably go to the same place that a flame goes when you blow
out a candle. So, but if you could choose an afterlife, and then it would immediately become
true, if you chose it, what would you choose from any religion? From any religion? Okay,
so have you, have you seen the movie The Invention of Lying? Yeah, yeah. Okay, in that, Ricky
Gervais, you know, has everybody believing that you get a mansion when you go to heaven, right?
Yeah. I would choose that heaven, like just the heaven, the heaven where I've got a mansion,
and it's just like, you know, I do whatever I want, you know, for eternity, I'm up there playing
video games or doing whatever in the fuck, you know, with my family and everything like that,
like I'm just, I'm just up there, you know, relaxing, being all, I guess, fresh, princey about it.
Like if I could choose a heaven, it would probably be that. Or if not a mansion, just,
I guess living out eternity here with, with my wife, Casey, and just not having to work.
If I could just fuck off from work for eternity, that would be heaven, actually.
Awesome. Awesome. Well, thank you so much for coming on the Deep Drinks podcast, John. It's
been awesome to have you on. Everyone, make sure you go check out John's channel, Golless Engineer.
Have you got a Clips channel as well? Is that correct? Did I hear you before? Oh, yeah. So,
it's, it's just called Golless Engineer Shorts, I think, because I had envisioned it to be like
those shorts, the vertical video, like one day clips, but I just ended up putting like clips
of my actual content on it. So it's just Golless Engineer Shorts. Yeah. And do you have any,
like recommended debates or videos that people should watch if they want to learn more about you
or what you do? Well, so my Kent Hovind debate that I did is actually pretty good. And it's the
origin story of the whale dick, the whale penis meme that we have on the channel. So it's got a
great moment in it where Kent Hovind calls me a pervert and everything. So that's, that debate's
pretty good. But, you know, pretty much any of my debates that I've done, I mean, I would definitely
tell people to watch, because you get a sense of my personality, you know, especially the Kent
Hovind one, because I don't take Kent Hovind seriously. No one. Who does? Like, I'm surprised
that anyone takes him seriously. I'm still, I'm still working on how I'm going to meme, like,
through a debate with him, because I really want to debate him, but I've just got to work out
how am I going to troll him through the debate, because obviously there's no content that comes
from it besides just having a good laugh. Right. So I guarantee you he'll start talking about how
whales fuck underwater. Okay. It's same. It never fails for whatever reason, if you notice it. And
yeah, whenever he starts talking about evolution, and especially vestigial limbs, he will always
pull a whale dick out of his back pocket. Okay. He'll talk about how they've got a 15 foot penis
and how they just sort of wiggle it around in the darkness down there, hoping to, you know,
get some. And I don't know why he brings it up every time, but he does.
Oh, my favorite thing is Dr. Josh doing the not Kent Hovind like raps and stuff like that.
If I'm like having the worst day of my life, I watch that. Well, my name is Kent Hovind,
Dr. T Rex. I just lose it. His throat clears and stuff. I love it so much. I'm here to help. Okay.
Yeah. So good. Oh, well, anyway, thanks so much, John, for coming on. This has been an amazing
interview. I've learned so much about mythosystem. I still feel like I've got many questions. So I'm
going to go to your channel to learn more about this channel, learn more about those questions
that I have. And I'm sure everyone else will as well. Thank you for coming on. And I'll see you
next time. All right. See everybody later.
