Was there any conflict there with Josh being an atheist and you being a Christian or?
No, no, never actually. So I made a database. So is it a building inscription? Does it include
royal titulary? Does it include mention of which god or goddess? Is it a dedication inscription?
So I made this database and then I was analyzing the data when I decided that actually I was going
to go insane if I kept pushing myself through academia. Could someone make the argument that
the canonization of the Bible was inherently against God's plan? God gave the Holy Spirit to
witness to people. Nowhere do I know, does it mention that that people should compile a bunch
of scriptures and then use that to argue about abortion rights and LGBT issues and... That's
interesting. Yeah, I think you probably could argue that. You could even say that the devil did it.
You could even say that it was part of the devil's plan. The ancient Egyptians went to their
version of the underworld and like Christians will go to their heaven and like the Norse,
people who believe in the Norse gods will go to Valhalla and it's like Megan, that's blasphemy.
I'm like, oh. Let me just get this straight. So the pyramids weren't built by aliens? Is that what
you're trying to say? They were not.
Welcome everyone to the Deep Drinks podcast where the drinks are deeper, the conversations are deeper
and today we have an amazing and brilliant guest, Megan Lewis of Digital Hammurabi.
I'll give a little bit of an introduction. Megan Lewis is the brainchild behind the wildly
popular Digital Hammurabi which aims to provide reliable, accurate information about the ancient
Near East through the YouTube channel, Hibane Podcast books and more. Megan Lewis has a BA
from Birmingham University and in ancient history, a master's philosophy from the same in
Assyriology and a master's in Near East studies from John Hopkins University, if that wasn't enough.
She also attained ABD status in a PhD program at the John Hopkins University.
Megan serves on the Board of Directors for HAPS which stands for Humans Against Poor Scholarship,
a non-profit dedicated to bringing academic research to the general audience
and increasing diversity in academia. HAPS provides funding for students researching
the ancient Near East. Megan has also helped produce and edit and publish her husband Dr.
Josh's books, two of which I have here, which is Do the Old Testament and Do a Slavery. Highly
recommend. Super easy to read and this one, the atheist handbook to the Old Testament. These
two are amazing. I especially love chapter two in this book which goes over the history of the,
I think it's chapter two, is it? Yeah, it goes over the history of the Near East.
Megan Lewis and her husband Dr. Josh are quickly becoming the darlings of online discourse around
anything related to ancient Near East and the Hebrew Bible. Along with that, both Megan and
Josh use their online status to stand up for their progressive values, not shying away
from discussing the spectrum of human sexuality as well as mental and physical illness, even
when doing so is highly personal, choosing to normalize their human experience in the hopes of
helping others. Megan is a Christian of the denomination Episcopalian, identifies herself
as queer and along with her husband Dr. Josh are becoming two of my favorite people on the
internet. Welcome Megan Lewis. Thank you, David. That was a lovely introduction.
I mean, I thought your husband was hard to get everything down, but you've got so
much. I had to like cut it, keep cutting. So yeah, it's amazing. You guys are, I really do mean that
you guys are the best thing that's happened to this conversation in many years from my perspective.
And for anyone that's new to the Deep Drinks podcast, this is where we sip the drink of the
guest choice and we discuss deep topics. So if you like this content, make sure you subscribe.
We are getting to a thousand subscribers. We're nearly there. I'm getting very excited about it.
And so yeah, if you like this content, make sure you hit subscribe. And today we're drinking
some tea, aren't we? We are drinking raspberry leaf tea. I've never had this before. Do you like it?
It's very, yeah, it's very herbal. Yeah, I drink far too much black tea as a British person. I think
I'm contractually obliged to. So this is my attempt to decaffeinate myself in the evenings.
Oh, so it's not caffeinated? That's good. That's good to know. Yeah, I think I drink too much caffeine
as well. I'm lying a bit at 3am and I'm going, why can't I sleep? So Megan, I'd love to talk about
your journey, like how you identify as a Christian. He became a Christian. I'd also love to
find out why you got interested in study, especially your research to academia and also
meeting Josh. I'd love if you could tell parts of that story. Definitely. So the religion thing,
first, I was just raised Anglican. My mum took us to church most Sundays. But it was
the church I went to is a very old, tiny English countryside church. It's made of stone. It's
in the doomsday book, which probably doesn't mean anything to anyone outside of the UK.
It's really, really old, like older than the United States of America old.
And it had like five people attended regularly. And we always joked that the congregation doubled
in size when my entire family attended because I'm one of four. So just a very gentle introduction
to religion. And there wasn't a whole lot in the way of theology or doctrine. It was more,
at least the way that my mother brought us up. It was more a religion of do unto others,
don't cause any deliberate harm. And God loves you. And like, he loves you the way you are,
not the way that the rest of the world thinks you should be necessarily.
So yeah, I just, it was just how I grew up. And it's something that
does stay with me. I will say that it's not something I've always found terribly easy.
There are a lot of things that kind of make me like, I like having some level of certainty about
really everything in my life and not being able to like point to something and prove that it's
true is, is troubling. And I think that's probably the case for a lot of religious people.
But I've, I've kind of reached the point where
the truth, like the factual basis doesn't necessarily matter anymore. The way that,
the way that I was raised with this particular brand of religion,
for me is more about doing what I can to make the world a better place in the time that I have.
And I find that very valuable. And I think that's a valuable thing, regardless of
whether you believe in a deity or an afterlife or anything, anything similar.
When I was in college, I worshiped as a Methodist. I've been to Quaker meetings and then I came
back to Methodism very briefly in DC because we found a really nice Methodist church that
I enjoyed. And yes, so now I'm in the U.S. I worship mainly as Anglican. I haven't really
been to church in a couple of years because there's a pandemic going on, which makes me
a little uncomfortable about leaving the house and gathering with large groups of people. So
yeah, who knows, who knows if that will pick back up again. But yeah, for the time being,
I'm still, I'm still identifying as Christian. Yeah, well, I've heard about that pandemic. It's
been a bit of a pain. So that's very interesting. So obviously, Josh, your husband is an atheist.
I saw something you said on Twitter, which was one of the most beautiful things I've read,
which is like, it's not a problem because we respect each other and love each other,
something along the lines of like, because we're not horrible people. Can you explain
the dichotomy? Was there any conflict there with Josh being an atheist and you being a Christian?
No, no, never actually. And when we first married, I mean, we got married in my home church.
He attended church with me when we were first living together in the U.S. We took our children,
they went to the Sunday school, Josh taught a few Sunday school classes for their grandmother.
That's adorable. And they loved him. He's a very knowledgeable person. I think they were very
glad to have him as a resource. So no, it's just never been an issue. And actually, I'm doing a
show in a couple of, no, in June, I think late June on Bitibuddha's channel with Jess Queen of
the Heathens about like, Kashi and I are good friends about how you can be friends when you
have this kind of religious disconnect. I'm like, well, it just really isn't an issue. And I think
part of that is because I don't require other people to believe the same as I believe in order
to view them as good, whole, moral people. And Jess and Josh and many of my other atheist friends
don't require me to be an atheist to take me seriously as a person. Obviously, there are
probably a fair few atheists who would not have me as a friend because part of the community
seems to view religious leanings or religious belief as a mental illness or some kind of
intellectual defect, which I obviously don't disagree with, but that's okay. I'm not going
to start yelling at them about it. It's how they view the world and that's fine. But never been an
issue with Josh. Wow, that's awesome. We also had Jessica Heathen Queen on the podcast two
episodes ago, and we got so drunk. So very drunk. And for me, it's always like 10 in the morning
or 11 in the morning. So the rest of the day, I was like white. So yeah, it was a party. But
yeah, it's funny to say that. I have a discord that's slowly getting a lot of community around,
we're doing a bunch of cool stuff at the moment. And my only mod is a Christian who I met online
doing street epistemology stuff. So I met I met him online and he ended up doing the server. He
was like the most active and stuff. And it's really funny that we got a bunch of atheists on
there and the only person I trusted enough to be a mod was the Christian guy. And so I think that
there's a way you can engage with people who have different beliefs. We've got Christians on there.
We even have like Muslim ex-Muslims. I think we have one have some Muslims and stuff. So
some higher Christians, Buddhists, it's really good for people to be able to get along because
sometimes you see this like just because people believe different things. It doesn't mean we
have to hate each other. I think the crucial part, regardless of what faith you are and all faiths
are none, is not viewing people as lesser because they believe differently to you.
I think if you can start from that basis, you probably are in a better place
for meaningful relationships than if you start from somewhere else.
Yeah. I'll generally respect someone's belief. Usually when someone disrespects the boundaries
that I have, like if I've run into street preachers and I said, hey, I'm not comfortable having this
conversation. It makes me anxious. And then they keep going. And then that's why I take the kick
gloves off and start going, what do you think about slavery? And I start doing the asking
questions and making them uncomfortable. But in the most part, I can get engaged with really
anyone about anything, even if their views are absolutely abhorrent. I've been talking to some
flat earthers and I don't know what is with that community, but the whole community seems to be
very anti-semitic. And it's really hard to have those conversations, but I'm trying to engage
with them in a way that is responsible and it's been a very interesting line to walk.
Anyway, how did you get interested in the pursuit of study in academic research?
I was a very bookworm-ish kid. I just read all the time.
It's so British.
Oh, absolutely. So stereotypically, awkward, no interest in actually talking to human beings.
I would read walking to the bus stop from my school, just ridiculous. I would sit in the
playground at primary school and read a book instead of running around with the other kids.
Just to stop you there, that's so awesome. I read, I think, probably two or three books
in my entire life. I probably skimmed them until I was like 25. And I got one book and I was blown
away. It was an audiobook, actually. And I was blown away and I was like, this is amazing. I love
this. What is this thing? And then now I've got hundreds of books. I love books so much,
especially audiobooks. And then I have the physical as well. And I'm just obsessed. But anyway,
I wish I grew up with being obsessed with books because I feel like I'd be a much more smarter
man. There are definitely bits of knowledge and vocabulary. Joshua sometimes asks me,
what does this word mean? And I'll tell him. And he'll be like, how do you know that? I was like,
well, I read this book once. That's literally the answer to most things in my brain. I read
this in a book. And actually, my reading journey went the opposite direction to you. I haven't
read regularly, at least nonfiction, probably since I was in my early 20s. Because I have ADHD
and one of the ways that it manifests is I get very well hyperfixated on things and I get hyperfixated
on books, which means that if I start a book, I have to finish it. I have to finish it as soon
as as humanly possible, which means I stop doing things like sleeping and like responding to emails
and phone calls and work. And so I am trying to know I'm finally medicated for us. I'm trying to
kind of slowly ease my way back into the waters of reading for pleasure without completely losing
sight of my actual life. Yeah. So that anyway, I was very bookish as a child, loved history,
loved Greek mythology specifically. And then I did classics at high school. I went to one of the,
I think, few high schools in the UK that still offer classical literature and archaeology and
stuff. I loved it, thought it was wonderful. And then I took a complete detour and went to art
school for two years. And when I was, it was actually in my first year of jewellery school,
my sister went to the city I was living in, Birmingham, to go to an open day at the local
university. And she went to the open day for the ancient history degree program. And I went with
her because I hadn't seen her for a while. And it was, I could take a day off. And we kind of
wandered around the campus and had lunch together. And I sat through the orientation lecture
for the prospective students thinking about taking ancient history. And it was a lecture
by a classicist called Ken Dowden. And I sat there and was just completely enthralled for,
it was only 30 minutes, but I was literally hanging on every word. And I came out and I
said to Erin, I have to do this. This is everything I've ever wanted to know. So she ended up going
to York to do archaeology. And I applied to Birmingham and I got accepted. So I left the
jewellery degree. And I did the undergraduate degree in ancient history. And while I was there,
I met my master's advisor, Dr. Alastair Livingston, who sadly died just over a year ago. He had COVID
and passed. But he was my thesis advisor for my undergraduate degree. And he asked me once what
I wanted to do after I graduated. And at that point, I was still very heavily into classics. And I
wanted to go on and be a classicist. I wanted to focus on Greek mythology. And I told him all this.
And he kind of, kind of under Nardi said that I can see you being very good at that.
It's certainly very interesting. The problem with the classics is that really everything's
already been written. There's nothing terribly new. They're not going to discover any new texts.
There aren't really any major archaeological sites that haven't been unearthed. Have you considered
a seriology? Because they're pulling tablets out of the ground on a daily basis. And we need people
just like you to read them and to tell everyone else about them. And I said, that's amazing. I
will do that. So I did. I did my first master's degree with him. And then went on to get into
the PhD program at Johns Hopkins. Wow, that's so awesome. So like before I interviewed Josh,
I had no idea what a seriology was. I had to, I think I even had to Google how to pronounce it.
Because like, and I'm really, I'm not very educated with history. And so I was amazed to learn
that's like, you know, the first civilizations, the study of Mesopotamian, the first civilizations
on earth, that's incredible. Yeah. So I would, am I assuming correctly that you obviously,
you don't hold to the Bible as like a, you don't have a Kent, however, in the Bible where it's
like, yeah, I try, I think I succeed to do my best. And I think I do quite well at treating the
Bible as an historical text or a collection of historical texts and insisting that they be placed
back in the culture, the time, the place they were written in to understand them more fully.
Yeah. It's mythology and mainly mythology. I'd love, I'd love to talk, I'd love to get into
that a little bit, but I first really want to hear how you met Josh. Sure. So he was a couple of
years ahead of me in the PhD program at Hopkins. He was actually one of the first people I met.
The way a lot of PhD interviews in North America work is that you go in, you talk to the professors,
you talk to the person who would be advising you. And then often there will be a social
like get together with the other PhD students to kind of make sure that you mesh with the existing
community. So Josh and the other two are serial just there, Caleb, who works in the UK now and Anna
who works in Germany, I believe. We all went out for lunch. So they could kind of get to know me,
I could get to know them and we kind of talked and it was really nice. And like, they're a great
group of people. So that was like our first meeting. And then once I got to Hopkins, he was,
he was a friend, he was really helpful. He showed me like where all the relevant texts were in the
library, which he always laughs about, but was actually incredibly helpful because
academic university libraries are big. And all of the seriological kind of ancient Near Eastern
stuff was located mostly on one floor. And he showed me like the relevant stacks and
the study room that the ancient Near Eastern students had. And then at one point he taught me
like, for people who don't know quite often graduate students will act as like teachers,
teaching assistants. So he taught me Sumerian and Acadian for a semester, I believe.
Yes. And like we studied together and worked together and we were friends. And then he got
scholarship, he got the Fulbright scholarship, the day I had a day
to go to Germany for a year and work with a specific seriology professor in the city of
Tübingen. And while he was there, his then wife Tara said that she wants to divorce,
which is one of those like in retrospect, like they didn't, and they would both say this. Tara
is a good friend of mine now. Like they would both say it was not a good relationship for them.
They married very young, they were both very religious. It was kind of you meet a girl you
like, you get married, you have kids. It's what you do. And then later you kind of find out that
actually you're not terribly compatible. So she decided that the incompatibility was an actual
problem. And they divorced while he was out there. And then he and I kind of started talking more
romantically while he was in Germany. And then we kind of started dating when he got back.
Yeah. And then he proposed to me in the library. It was really cute. He roped two of our friends
into it. The library at Hopkins has a study room for the Near Eastern Studies students.
And he had one of our friends, Duana, who's an archaeologist, kind of waiting, loitering outside
the study room to make sure we weren't suddenly surprised by a professor. Because it's the reference
section. It's where you go to get like all the dictionaries and all of the archaeological
reports. So she was kind of loitering outside. And then our other friend Anna was in there.
And we'd gone in to check something I can't remember. And suddenly like our song started
playing and I was like Anna's phone is playing this song that is ours. And I was like, that's a
really weird ringtone for Anna to have because it's just bizarre. And then I turn around and
Josh is on my knee. Oh, that's so awesome. It was very, very cute. And I think I swore at him.
That's awesome. That's so good. That's it. It's so funny. Because it's something similar to my
Wi-Fi. I was so nervous when we went up on like a hot air balloon and went to a winery afterwards.
And I she thought it was a Christmas present. And I ran down. I was like, oh,
she was eating. I was so nervous. And she's eating a breakfast. And I was like, oh, we should go
and take a photo. She's like, can I finish my breakfast? It's like, no, no. I was like, the
shadows are going to change. And it will like, you know, photography and all, you know, I'm over
and she's like really conscious. It was like, she was just eating a little piece of bacon or
something. And I was like, oh, no, no, we should go. Honestly, all the shadows, we can come back
for food. I was panicking. And we got down there. And I like she will walking down like in between
the rows of vineyard walking down there in between the rows. And I'm walking ahead because I'm so
anxious. Like I'm like powering down. She's like dawdling. Like, what is he doing? Why is he so
like, anyway, and I like sit up the camera. And I like put it there and I walk up to her and she's
on her phone. She's doing like a panorama. And she goes, oh, you're on my photo. And I was like, oh,
sorry. And I got on one knee and I was like, yeah, and she's like, I got a long video and stuff.
Yeah, I got a long video and stuff. But it was, it was, yeah, it was one of those things where it's
like, it's so funny, always hearing the woman's perspective in that because it's like usually
like, what's going on? Like, oh, it's like a big surprise. Yeah, I knew he was going to propose
at some point. I designed my engagement and wedding band set. I knew it was coming. But
like, I was still completely in utterly shocked. Somehow he'd managed to get the rings because the
designer like a jeweler that we know, or that my mother knows in the UK, ended up making my
engagement set. And they FedExed it over. And like, he got it sent to Anna's house. And then Anna ran
it up the road to him. And he kind of was like, I have to go and move the car because the street
cleaners are coming. And he ran downstairs. And I was like, okay, I'm just going to sit here and
read my book and do some work. And it's all fine. He like sprinted to her house and then sprinted
back again. Yeah, I completely shocked. That's, that's so good. I, yeah, that's such a beautiful
story. That's so good. Yeah, I love you guys. You guys are amazing. Like you guys, like, I love
what you do on Twitter and stuff. I really like you guys. So I did want to, so we've already
talked a little bit about your religious beliefs. But I'd like to go into like, what is your
religious beliefs? Because I know that a lot of people would say, wait, so you don't believe in
the herency of scripture. What is what is Christianity to you? Do you believe that Jesus
rose from the dead? Do you believe that we're going to heaven? Do you believe in hell? Like,
all those sorts of things? Like, do you have you thought much about those things? Or do you
not care and just enjoy the culture? Or have you got like some theological answer that's going to
blow my mind? I wish. No. So I think a good part of it is cultural. And I've, I've talked about this
publicly before, and there have been comments from other British people saying it, it's a very
cultural thing. Like theology did not figure in really any way, shape or form in my childhood
experience of religion. We obviously had Bible readings and sermons based around those readings
that were kind of like, be a good person, don't fuck up, be nice to other people, maybe probably a
good way to go. So, and then I was kind of, you are taught like with, I think, probably every other
branch of Christianity that yes, Jesus died on the cross, he rose again, and will come again
to redeem us all. That was never like, the resurrection was kind of the more of a focus
than the second coming. So it, I was probably well into my teens before I really kind of unpacked
what the second coming was. And like, do I think that's happening? Probably not. Do I believe in
the resurrection? Very fuzzy on that, if I'm honest, very fuzzy. But the thing, the thing for me is that
how I relate to whatever divine being there is, isn't reliant upon a resurrection having been
physically real. And so many people will tell me that I'm not an actual Christian. Okay.
I get told all the time I wasn't, that was never a true Christian.
Yeah, yeah, it's, it's distrustingly common, honestly, because especially, and Josh gets that a lot,
and he was, he was a pastor, he was a chaplain in the Air Force, like the man knows his theology,
he has a master's degree in theology, like, just because you think differently now doesn't mean
that your faith was never true or real or valid. I think that's an incredibly insulting and mean
spirited thing to say. And I, like, I get why people say it, because if, if someone, if someone
who seemed so, such as like, the right kind of Christian can de-convert, then it's scary, because
then it's scary, because it means that maybe you can do. Yeah, I understand. But at the same time,
it's massively insulting to a very large number of people who have experienced very real harm at
the hands of both the church and other religious people. So yeah, I don't, I don't really know,
to be honest, I don't, and it's one of those things that has kind of got both more difficult
and less difficult as I've kind of aged. When I was in, aged, like I'm ancient, as when I was in,
like, my early 20s, late teens, early 20s, kind of going through my undergraduate and my first
master's degree, I think it really, really bothered me. I found it very, very scary that I didn't
know how I felt and that a lot of what other Christians seemed to believe and think felt
very wrong to me. And, but they were like, but look, it's in the Bible and it is indeed in the Bible.
And if it's in the Bible, does that mean it has to be true? And if it doesn't have to be true,
then really what am I basing any belief in if I'm, if I'm not doing what I'm supposed to be doing
and using the Bible as my basis? And kind of as I've got older and come to view the Bible as
a collection of historical texts rather than the divinely inspired word of God,
I think it's, it's become a lot easier because, yes, slavery is endorsed by the,
the Old Testament, the Hebrew Bible.
Whoa, spoilers alert. You've got to get someone to read the book.
Read the book and find out.
I mean, okay.
It's a, it's a text from the ancient Near East. That is what they did. Slavery was a thing and
there were rules and regulations around its practice. And having a collection of texts
from the ancient Near East, which the Hebrew Bible is endorsing and regulating the practice
of slavery is not like an earth shattering thing. It, it, it makes sense to me. Of course,
it does. It's, it's what everyone did. That doesn't make it right. I am not excusing it.
But it's not something to me. Yeah. Like my perspective, it makes sense historically.
Yes. Yeah. It becomes, it becomes, it becomes very hard to say it was ordained by God. Like
that seems, that's where it gets confusing. And I, I mentioned this, I was, I was mentioning that,
like, because a lot of Christians make the argument that God was working in his time,
right? And I've made the argument to people that, well, do you think if God was to give
instructions now and they'll send Megan or myself up to Mount Sinai and we ought to get
instructions or something? And do you think God would give instructions on how Christians
should run their only fans? Do you think he would say like, you know, only do two oral sex videos
a week, anal only on Tuesdays, do boob videos on, like, well, like that seems immediately
heretical. Like immediately a Christian can realize that's messed up, but a lot of people
make a lot of money and they could use that money to save a lot of people through only fans.
Problem with only fans, obviously. But, but the point is, is like, that's seen as a sin.
Slavery. It's not. Well, it, well, a lot of Christians would say it's a sin, but I don't
know. It is now, but it wasn't. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So anyway, what were you saying?
I think that the thing, so Josh and I talked about religion, like early on when we were like
just friends. And he, he explained it as, or explained the Hebrew Bible and well, no,
just the Bible generally as a record of one particular, well, I guess two particular cultures
way of interacting with the divine that they saw in the world around them. And I like that
explanation very much. And I think that probably
resonates with me because I never saw the reason for Christian, well, for the belief in a God to be
like, to the exclusivity of other deities. Like when I was in high school, I joined like the
students Christian group. And I was like 12 or 13. I was one of the youngest members there.
And I remember saying to like the sixth grader who was running it, she would have been what,
17, 18. Do you think when people die, they just like, they go to whatever heaven it is that they
believed in when they were living, like the ancient Egyptians went to their version of the
underworld and like Christians will go to their heaven and like the Norse people who believe in
the Norse gods will go to Valhalla who's like Megan, no, that's blasphemy. I'm like, oh,
I don't know if it's true, but I like it. I think it would be a nice way for the world to be.
So it's the idea, just the idea that this particular record of
an interaction or a relationship with a divinity, like, it doesn't have to be factually correct,
obviously, because I'm not here to like say I can prove the existence of God, I'd be like the
world's wealthiest woman, I could do that. But it's, it's proof of humanity's attempts to build a
relationship with something greater than ourselves. And I think, aside from the historical value of
the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament, I think there is, there is value in recognizing that,
recognizing that that's something that's happened through most of human history,
like that attempt to explain and relate to and build a relationship with whatever is kind of
out there that we don't understand. And obviously, as our understanding of,
of the natural world has developed and increased, there's less and less, like,
not many people worship like thunder anymore, because we can explain what it is.
But there are many other things that we can't explain. And I think
seeing how people have, like, anthropomorphized that, whether or not
they're right, is really, really fascinating to me. And I really enjoy that kind of relationship
greater than yourself.
Yeah, that's, that's very interesting. So you've probably obviously heard of the,
the elephant theory, like where, you know, a bunch of blind people are touching an elephant.
Have you heard this before? So it's like a bunch of blind people are touching an elephant,
and the describing parts of the elephant, and they're saying, oh, this elephant, this thing is,
it has big, strong legs, or this thing has a trunk, or this thing has tusks.
And they're all touching different parts of this elephant, and they're all getting a little bit
wrong because they're touching different parts. They don't get the whole picture.
And, you know, this person touching the task is explaining it as hard and strong, hard and firm
and brittle, and then the person touching the legs and the tail are different. And that's the idea
that's what a lot of people who subscribe to the art, like a lot of people subscribe to that
idea when it comes to God and beliefs that religions are connecting with something, whether
they're not true or not, and that thing they're describing their subjective experience, they're
all describing it differently based on their presuppositions as they go into it. And I can
almost get on board with that because, yeah, I'm not, I'm not, I would say I'm an agnostic atheist
because I don't have evidence to, to, I used to be a Pentecostal youth pastor, I don't know if
you knew that, but I, I'm now, I'm now, I now reached a spot where I was like, I could no
longer be convinced, I was not convinced of the evidence, but it doesn't make mean that,
you know, the moments when I, I still had moments of like huge emotional, you know, crying, weeping,
I had Pentecostal-ish moments, you know, like speaking in tongues and, and feelings of elation,
all that kind of stuff. I just don't know what they are, I just, I just don't subscribe a truth
claim to them anymore because I know that other religions are the same. And this, this is a kind
of tangential, tangential, but kind of what, to the, both what you're saying and to the elephant
thing is, is elephants, again, I remember when, when I was dealing with a death in the family or,
and a friend was, I'm sorry, a friend was dealing with the death in their family, but it's helped
me as well. I found out that, that elephants, like the animal elephants, they actually mourn their
their, like that blew my mind that they will, they'll mourn their loss of their community.
And they'll even like years later, when they come back to spot if the, where the elephant
part of their group or herd, I don't know what it's called, have, have died. And the elephants
has been taken away and it's been changed. The area has been changed. They'll still come back
to that same spot and stand around for a little bit and then they'll kind of wander off. And I
was like, damn, like not even elephants escape grief, not even animal kingdom, like the animals,
like, I don't think they're thinking that there is some like divine afterlife or God or something,
but like they remember something lost though. Yeah, they have like this subjective experience
that they're, and for some reason, I don't know why, but it helped me and it helped my friend
when we're both dealing with the grief of the death, it's like knowing that not even the elephants
escape this subjective experience, not even animals escape this subjective experience of
something bigger or mourning or loss or subjectivity. And yeah, I don't know, I don't know,
that's relevant, super relevant. But yeah, it's, I find what you're saying is interesting. I can
almost get on, but I can almost be a Christian if that's the kind of Christianity you're talking
about. Like, if we're honest, I'm a very bad Christian. Like, very bad Christian.
I just recently, I released it this morning, I interviewed my wife, and I said, and she kept
saying, oh, I'm such a bad Christian, I'm such a bad Christian. I said, you're a bad Christian,
but you're a great person. Yeah. And that's why I love that. Yeah. And I think that's the same
for you. You're a bad Christian, but you're a great person. Okay, so I need to just look
at my notes. So Bible Inherency, you don't believe the Bible is inherent, obviously. Faith to you
is, so do you have a perspective of like heaven and hell? Do you think there will be an afterlife?
I don't believe in a hell. And I haven't for, I think, ever.
Like, the way, the way God was kind of presented to me growing up was as a,
like a loving, caring deity who wants what's best for us. And I'm like,
it doesn't, it doesn't really, I mean, obviously that's completely at odds with what's presented
in the Old Testament, but it, the idea of a hell doesn't mesh with the belief that I was raised with.
So I never really took that terribly seriously. And heaven, I don't, I don't know. I really don't know.
The heaven described in the Bible is kind of unpleasant, honestly.
Like the idea of kind of sitting around all day and praising God is,
I mean, I'm going to be struck down with a bolt of lightning, but it sounds kind of boring.
I think, so I don't know. I would like for there to be an afterlife, but I don't have any,
like, from, like, belief in one. Mother always wants to be reincarnated. She wants to come back
as a tree, which I think is a pretty solid, pretty solid decision on her part. I don't know.
I was actually going to ask you, like, if you could choose between, like, the traditional
afterlife or reincarnation to enlightenment, like Eastern thought, what would you, if you could
choose one and it would be automatically true, which one would you choose?
Probably reincarnation, to be honest.
It's a fun one, right?
Yeah, it is. You definitely keep, keep riding the roller coaster.
Yeah. Yeah. Oh man, it'd be so, I kind of wish it was true in a way.
You want to remember, though, or would you want it to be fresh each time you come back?
I think that the, I think that the, I don't know, and that's a good question,
but I think that the, the traditional thought is that there are some underlying things that
come with you, like your karma and your dharma, but your, that your, like, memories don't necessarily
come through. And that's why, like, you know, that's why there are some, like,
regressive memories of, like, people can remember their past lives and stuff, but
I don't believe in any of it, but it would be cool. It would be cool.
Or another one, I think would be cool is if, like, you get to the end of your life,
and then someone takes off the goggles and you've been in this, like, alien arcade playing a VR game.
I'm like, whoa, that was an amazing ride. So that would be another, another cool one.
Yeah, it would be cool.
So I've got a, I've got a question. If the Bible is not inspired by God,
oh, actually this is, you could, you could even do this if it wasn't inspired by God.
But could someone make the argument that the canonization of, actually, scrap that first
little thing. Could someone make the argument that the canonization of the Bible was inherently
against God's plan? So to, to explain a little bit, like, from the traditional Christian perspective,
well, at least in the Pentecostal movement that I was involved in, God gave the Holy Spirit to
witness to people and to, you know, people was to go or spread the gospel through healing and
prayer and, and teaching and things like that. Nowhere do I know, does that mention that, that
people should compile a bunch of scriptures by God into a canon, into the Bible, and then use that
to argue about abortion rights and LGBT issues and things like that. So I'm wondering whether or
not you could argue from a theological perspective that the Bible, if you were to take the idea that
God is real, the Bible is actually inherently in action against God's.
That's interesting. Yeah, I think you probably could argue that.
Yeah. I mean, you could even say that the devil did it. You could even say that it was part of
the devil's plan to corrupt God and corrupt his, like, true thing. But then, of course,
I'm appealing to the Bible and, you know, the devil and all the stuff written about that to kind
of debunk it. So it kind of, it's like plugging an extension cord into itself again. That's an
interesting, that's a really interesting argument, though. I'm sure someone, I'm very bad at debating,
I'm sure someone could make that very persuasively if they tried.
I'm sure I'll get a bunch of hate mail from it, and the person will comment a bunch of times,
and I'll ask them to jump on Discord and have a discussion, and then they'll deliver comments
right away, because that's what seems to happen. Okay, so what is your, so jumping into academia,
what are your specialties in the field of Assyriology? And just being, I'm just being careful on
time, because we do have a lot of great questions from the Discord. So yeah, let's run through the
academia. Okay, so I'm an Assyriologist, which means I focus on the cultures, civilizations,
and languages of Mesopotamia, ancient Iraq, parts of Syria. My undergrad, well no, my masters, no,
sorry, too many degrees. Yeah, my first master's thesis, way too many. My first master's thesis
was on the perceived relationship between the goddess Ishtar and the near Assyrian kings.
So I looked at a selection of hymns and literary compositions about the goddess,
and some prophecies, and look at the language and how the kings related themselves to the goddess.
So that was kind of like very, very propagandistic. And then it kind of continued into the PhD
dissertation. I did leave the PhD program before I completed, but I have like three quarters of a
PhD dissertation, just sitting on my hard drive. But one day I will finish. But I worked on royal
inscriptions from the like early thirds through to mid second millennium. So I kind of ended with
around Hammurabi's time. But the point of that dissertation was to look explicitly at
kind of relocating the language of the inscriptions onto the objects they were written on,
and then the objects themselves into the places where they were excavated. When you work on inscriptions
or textual evidence from the ancient world, quite often what you're presented with is
a translation or a hand copy. So someone has drawn out the cuneiform, and you read the drawing,
or if you're able to, you get a hold of photos, or you go and see the original artifacts. But you
work on the text. You don't really consider what it was written on, why it was written on that
object, like why that object in particular. And then very often people also don't consider
the archaeological context that object that inscription was found in. So I made a database
kind of compiling all that information, taking the inscriptions and like kind of the themes that
they dealt with. So is it a building inscription? Does it include royal titulary? Does it include
mention of which god or goddess? Is it a dedication inscription? So all of that information plus
what object it was found on was a brick or a statue or like a weapon of some kind.
And then where that object was found, and if it was in a primary or a secondary context,
and a primary context is when an object is found in its place of use, where it was
put by the people who made it. So if you're looking at royal inscriptions, quite often they're on
building bricks. So was this brick like placed in a temple wall? Is it in the temple that it
was originally put in? Has it been dug up and redeposited by a later ruler? Has it been thrown
in a trash pit? And if it's been moved somehow, the location it's found is then a secondary context
because it's not where it originally sat. So I made this database and then I was analyzing
the data when I decided that actually I was going to go insane if I kept pushing myself through
academia. I had our son that year and we didn't have any childcare, we still don't really have
any help with childcare. So I was essentially being primary caregiver for three children
and trying to be a full-time student. It wasn't working and I was very unhappy.
So we prioritized the family stuff and maybe I'll go back, I don't know. Anyway, yeah,
so royal inscriptions and who they were for, why they were written and where they were found.
Yeah, well, I don't blame you for thinking that academic
taking care of children and completing a PhD. I don't blame you for being overwhelmed.
Geez. And it's funny how you said my first master's degree, so you have two, right?
I do, yes.
So it's so awesome. What a thing I like about one of your videos is you actually
decided to take a stab at the ridiculous notion of aliens and the ancient world.
So I'd like to, so let me just get this straight. So the pyramids weren't built by aliens. Is that
what you're trying to say?
They were not. And I realized this is a controversial statement from them, but they were not.
Not even a little bit.
But they're pretty accurate in regards to something, something, something.
I mean, the pyramids.
Yeah, it's so funny. I work for a surveying and town planning firm. We do do surveying.
And I remember one of my friends once said to me, you know, we don't even have instruments today
that are as accurate as they built the pyramids.
And I said, well, no, obviously not. And I said, and I said, really? And he goes, yeah,
they're so square that we don't have instruments that can, and I was like,
and I'm thinking like we have instruments that can measure the point one of a millimeter.
Like I'm not, okay, I'm like, okay. So we looked up the maths and I was like, these,
I think they're like something two minutes out of alignment, which is not much in regards to
ancient, but two minutes, like, so you get like 60 minutes and then 60 seconds within each minute.
If you, if over 200 meters, one second is two millimeters of, of, of error,
when we're doing like just a shopping center set out, you can't be with it, you got to be
within three mils, three, four mils of accuracy. A shopping center is hundreds of times more
accurate than the pyramids. We definitely have technology today that can do it. And it's just
amazing that where do you think this comes from this notion that the pyramids and ancient,
the ancient world had. So where it originally came from was racism. Oh, really? Yes,
absolutely. And there are many people who have dedicated their careers to explaining this. And
if people are interested, please email me. I will give you a reading list. No, we will put,
we will put a rating list in this, in the description too. So at its core, ancient alien
theory was created to explain why black and brown people built monuments that white people didn't.
Because if, if, if you think about it, there are very few ancient alien theories about Stonehenge
or something similar. Yeah. And the ziggurats, the pyramids, the monuments in South America,
all aliens, definitely. Absolutely aliens. And I'm not, I want to be very clear. I am not
saying that people who enjoy ancient alien theories or who promote them today are necessarily
racists. I am saying the theories are rooted in racism. And I think a part of why they are so
popular is that it's just, it's science fiction. It's science fiction made real. And love, I
love science fiction. It was, I think my most read book genre when I was a kid. Absolutely love it.
Space travel, mind control, all, all of it. It's beautiful. I love it. So it, it appeals to a
popular audience on that level because it reads like fiction. And because if, if the TV producers
are very clever, they can manufacture loose ends that don't actually exist if you look at the
archaeology, but they can manufacture loose ends. And then the ancient alien theorists can come in
and kind of tie it all up with a nice neat bow. And it's very satisfying to have all of these loose
ends and to have an explanation that answers all of them. And the, the, one of the videos on our
channel, I try and go through one of the episodes of ancient aliens and kind of point out places
where they are deliberately misleading the audience. You're pausing a lot because like
that was, that thing was, yeah, I watched that video. It's crazy. Yeah. And I, I need to remake
that video because I was, I think a little too dismissive, not of the experts, but possibly
a little too dismissive of the people who enjoy alien theories. And I feel like I alienated a lot
of ha ha alienated a lot of people. But if you watch that episode, you're right. I pause it
a lot because they deliberately set things up to create questions and to create mysteries that
actually don't exist. At one point that they're talking about underground caverns and they're
like, they go on for miles and they date back to this like ancient history. And if you go and just
read the Wikipedia page for these caverns, actually like a tiny, tiny area of them do date back,
very, very late. But most of them are Byzantine. Most of the caverns are relatively modern history,
like, and they were trying to argue that they were, they were made to escape the flood. No.
Wait, so ancient alien theorists cross with young earth creationists?
Shocking, right?
That's actually, that's surprising. It's, I've always noticed, like, I'm dealing, for some
reason, I'm dealing with a lot of flat earthers at the moment. And they, they, they, they, I had
an interview with flat earth. And I'm, what I'm noticing about conspiracy theories is a lot of
them, it's just a lot of it is just satisfying, like, like emotionally, and people feel like they,
they know secret knowledge and you can answer questions that no one else can. I mean,
it doesn't really matter that they're not actual questions. And it doesn't matter that the answers
are like, maybe too simple, because actually life is very messy and complicated and shades of gray
mostly. But no, you're right. Emotionally, very satisfying. Absolutely. Don't really fault people
for wanting to be, or being willing to be drawn in by it. Yeah, I actually wanted to ask about,
I, about something I posted on an antagonistic claim on Twitter that,
that it's clear to me that myth is only a myth is for the fields, like that nine,
I was sort of my only myth is for the fields. And what I was essentially saying is that is it's,
is people enjoy the idea that Jesus didn't wasn't a historical figure. And so that's why they,
it's not because they've done the research is because they like the idea and they subscribe
to the beliefs and then they look at the evidence and then they convince the evidence
because they want it to be true. I'm Godless engineer who I didn't realize was a huge mythosist
challenged me on this. And we got in, and I jumped on his channel and we had a discussion about it.
And I was like, look, I wrote, I wrote an a syllogism for it. I hadn't thought about it too
much. And I was like, look, I hate when people make antagonistic claims. And then someone challenged,
I challenged them and they water it down. So I'm going to stand by my arguments. And I want you
to correct me where I'm wrong. And I just said, yep, and I broke down my syllogism. And by the end,
I had a better understanding of mythosism. But I'd like to, I'd like to ask your
perspective of what you think of Jesus mythosists. If you know anything about it.
So I, I don't, which is awful, I really should. And so I will say that John is a good friend.
And I think he is very well researched and very well read.
Yeah. And I know that mythosism generally is viewed
as it's not taken seriously by academics on the whole. And I haven't, I haven't done the research
myself to really have formed a good opinion of it. But I do feel like people dismiss it out of hand.
Which I do. And you're certainly not alone on that. People definitely dismiss it out of hand.
And unless, unless you can come up with like a good answer for why it should be
dismissed, I think I do, I do see why people get quite so frustrated.
Well, John, John definitely took me a task and it was a bit of a spicy interview. But by the end
of it, you know, we're friends and like he's going to come onto the deep drinks hopefully. And
you know, it was great. I learned a lot and stuff. But my, my argument was essentially
most scholars disagree with the, like most scholars are not mythosists. Therefore,
I have to wonder why they're not mythosists and why other people ask it. Therefore,
people are doing, people are believing for non scholarly reasons. And he challenged me on that.
And he said, well, the scholarship is biased because they come from a traditional Christian view.
And I was like, interesting. And I never really considered, I never really considered
the, I would always just point to consensus because I'm not an expert. I'll just point
to the consensus. I do that with vaccines. I do that with everything. I point to the consensus.
But I'm, I'm, I'm yet to really give a good thought and consideration to this point.
That's one of the reasons why I have maybe not found the time to look into it.
It's, I do have a bias, like for all that I don't think the resurrection was a physical event for
all that I'm not entirely sure where I stand on like the Christian gods. Jesus is,
I have, like, I, I like him. I like a lot of the things that he said and or is supposed to have
said. And I, I have a bias and I'm not entirely sure how successfully I could mitigate that bias
in looking whether or not he was a real person.
Yeah. It's, it's actually interesting because your perspective of Christianity, I think,
might actually fit well with Amethyst's position because it's not necessarily,
which is what I learned from John, it's not necessarily the idea that Jesus never existed
in his oldest BS. It's more of a, there's these, I think there is some theories of like,
the ideas and stories about Jesus were actually like stories about the spirit realm and like
Jesus, like it all has, it's all happening in a metaphorical kind of spirit, out of
lyrical. Yeah. It's, it's not as, it's not as just like Jesus didn't exist lol. Like it's not as
like that. Yeah. So I will, when I do find some, some spare time in my brain to move some things
around and find some time for it, I do really want to look into it, but I'm still not convinced that
it has any merit, but I'm willing to look into it. And John was a great guy. So yeah.
So I think we should move on to the Q and A because I don't want to keep you till midnight.
So I have a bunch of questions from, I have eight questions from
Discord community. Some of them you've already answered though, so it might not be as long as we
think, but this is one question that Dr. Josh, your husband, he, I don't need to tell you that
he's your husband, I don't ask that. Dr. Josh mentioned, and I keep saying Dr. Josh because
it's like, I know it's his brand name. It's like Dr. Josh, Dr. Josh thought I'm trying to like, you
gotta stay on brand. So he said that you may have a really, this would be a really good question to
ask you. And I think this is the question. What is your opinion of the theory of a Syrian continuity?
You mean that a cultural group that exists today?
Yeah. So this is what, because I asked the person of clarification because last time I
didn't know what the person was actually asking. So it's a concept that modern day Syrian communities
claim to be descendants of ancient Syrians all the way back to Akkadians.
Sure. Again, it's not something I have researched, but I mean, okay, I don't, sure.
Do you think it's, well, do you think it's got much, do you know if it has much merit to it,
or is it? I genuinely don't know. And I would also be very careful about weighing in on an
argument about a culture that I am not a part of. For me, an analogy would be
Josh, Josh's ancestors didn't come over as pilgrims, right? Or at least not the original pilgrims.
He wasn't here. His family wasn't here for the first Thanksgiving.
But we as a family still celebrate Thanksgiving any every year. Are we entitled to do that?
Because we weren't here for the first one. I think, I think so. Am I entitled to do that as
an immigrant, an immigrant who is not even going to attain or has no plans to attain American
nationality? I think I do. If a people group finds strength and pride and identity in
a connection with the ancient past, I think that to deny that,
especially for me, from a position of privilege and, yeah, let's stick with privilege.
I think I'm on very shaky ground if I take issue with that without having
actual solid anything to back it up with. Now, obviously, you do run into problems. I'm not
saying this about the Assyrian community, but with some, you can think about, like,
neo-Nazis, for example, drawing direct lines from the Norse gods to their current culture.
You run into problems with things like neo-nationalism. Yeah, so it can definitely
be a very problematic practice. You should get Ocean On to talk about focus. If you have not
had him as a guest, he's an excellent human being. He'd be a very good person, I imagine,
to ask about this kind of topic. It can be very problematic, but I am not going to sit here and
say that, no, there can't possibly be a connection, a cultural connection, between
the Assyrians that I study in ancient history and Assyrians of the modern world.
Okay. Okay, cool. Is the claimed Kurdish nativity to Upper Mesopotamia
Slash Anatolian Mountains true, or is the Kurdish history much more nomadic?
I have no idea.
Okay, sometimes that's the best answer. These questions, these are the tough questions. I'm
hitting you with the tough ones first. If you've got anything around, like,
2,500 BCE, hit me with it.
Well, I have no idea. I'll just have anything you've got, but just for viewers, I'm really
sorry, I don't like really come to modern history at all.
That's okay. You guys have a lot of history on your channel, and am I correct in assuming that
you're playing with the idea of possibly doing a Hebrew course?
Yeah, Josh has been talking about doing a Hebrew class.
Yeah, he's actually written the syllabus out. We haven't sat down and decided, like, dates,
or how many, I think he was talking about 12 or 14 classes, but we don't have dates for those.
Okay. I had no interest in learning Hebrew, but since learning that Josh is the teacher,
hearing the stories about him and his buddy with a dictionary in a room just talking to each other,
I've gotten more and more interested, and I've been looking into the Hebrew language,
and I might be a student, so if you guys end up doing that, let us know, and if anyone watching
this ends up doing that, you might see me there as a student, and we can jump onto the discord.
I would say Josh is a very good teacher. He enjoys it, and it shows, and he has,
obviously, I would think this, but I think it's true. I think he has a talent for breaking down
complex concepts and explaining them in a way that people understand without having prior knowledge.
Yeah. From what I've just seen on your channel, that seems accurate as well,
from my perspective as well. Why do you think the Bible learning is portrayed as more antagonistic
than the Assyrians? In the Bible? Or just... Because in like... So, Assyrians, he clarified,
Assyrians are the sole cause for the loss of the 12 tribes of Israel. Why still is Babylon seen as
the perfect depiction of a sinful and godless civilization of whom all the people are the
sons of Pauls? Quote, sons of Pauls. I don't know. Okay. That's, that's a, hey,
it's not going to say I don't know then. It could be, if I had to hazard a guess, I would say that
the Assyrians greatly admired Babylonian culture and literature. A lot of the literature you see
in Akkadian, in Assyria, has been lifted from Babylon, the library of Ashbanipal,
where we have like the vast majority of Mesopotamian literature.
He took a lot of tablets, a lot of literature from Southern Mesopotamia, from Babylon,
when it was under Assyrian rule. So it's, it's possible maybe that whoever wrote and
compiled the Hebrew Bible saw that chain of transmission and decided that while the Assyrians
may have been arrogant, violent bastards, the ideas originally, like the threatening ideas,
the mythology originally came from Babylon. So it, it's really their fault. I mean,
there may also have been like a residual memory of, of Southern Mesopotamia is like
home of the first big cities, but that, that's a stretch.
Okay. So you moderated the big debate between Erwin and Lacona regarding the resurrection of
Jesus, the history, history. First of all, what did you think? And secondly, was there anything
that stood out to you as new or interesting or a great point from either side?
Um, so for some context, that was seven hours. Um, and
There's a brief seven hours. Yes, indeed. Um,
nothing, I mean, nothing new in terms of content, if you've watched any of Barton Mike's debates
on other platforms before it's very much the same material. The way they presented it was
different. They've obviously honed their arguments over the years, but it was, it was this, a lot
of the same material. Um, I think what stood out to me is the thing that actually stands out to me
with all of their interactions, how very civilized they are towards each other. Um, they clearly
have a very fundamental disagreements about, I suspect a lot of things, not least of which is,
is the resurrection. Um, but despite that disagreements, they are able to keep the debates.
I wouldn't say calm necessarily, because there were heated moments, and I think that's fine and
appropriate, but it was always civil. Um, and I think that that is something that is, um,
noteworthy, uh, especially when you are talking about religious beliefs. Um,
because if you often, if you talk to religious people and you tell them that you don't agree
with their views and you lay out why you don't agree with their views, you will get yelled at.
So, yeah, I, I'm sorry, it's not really like a, a content answer, but I think they both did a good
job. I'd like, it's not, one of the, one of the reasons they asked me to do it was because I'm
not a New Testament specialist. I don't have that background or training. Um, so I can't
say really whether any of the evidence presented was terribly new or noteworthy. Um,
but I, I enjoyed it. It was a very, um, it was an interesting experience. Uh, and
I, I was, I was just impressed with both of them.
Hmm. I think part of the reason why they chose you is because you and Josh are the new darlings of,
uh, sorry. Um, so what do you can, this is, this might be a good one. Um, what do you,
I'm going to ask two questions. What do you consider is the greatest argument for Christianity?
And then the next question is, what do you consider the greatest argument against Christianity?
Um,
or we can, if that, if that question doesn't really work, we could change it a little bit and say,
what's your greatest argument for the, for God and what's the greatest argument against God?
Oh, I'm, see, I don't, I don't know. Like I don't care. This is like a fundamental problem with
my personality. I genuinely don't care. Um, I believe what I believe and that's fine. And
most of my reasons are purely emotional. Um, and I'm okay with that.
That is so, I'm so glad you answered like that. It's exactly like, uh, uh, well, you know, when
I interviewed my wife, it was like, it was like, she has this amazing ability to, I'll burst through
the door and be like, I found this thing. It changes their whole identity, like our whole
life. Everything's changed. And she goes, Oh, okay. Do you want a cheese board? And then she's
like, like she, she does not like, she just, it just goes on. And I was asking her questions,
like, you know, what about the morality? Like, let's, I'm going to throw some evangelicals,
worst nightmares at you. And I was like, what if our kids are smoking? What if our 15 year old son
comes home and he's like, here's my boyfriend? Or like, I was giving like really evangelicals,
worst nightmare questions. Or, um, and she was like, I don't care. And then at the end, she's
like, I don't think that changed at all from when I was a Christian. And she's like, I was a bad
Christian. I was like, you're a bad Christian, good person. So yeah, it's, it just, I don't get it.
You two are weird is what I'm saying. I don't get it because
I think maybe so if I, if I had to like, pick something, I think the best argument against
would probably be the problem of evil. And I think that is something that a lot of religious
people struggle with. If there is a good omnipotence, benevolent deity out there,
why do bad things happen? And why do evil people so often rise to the top and not get any kind of
not necessarily punishment, but why are they not stopped from doing evil? And I, I don't have an
answer. I wish I did, but I don't. And the thing, like, I don't, I'm not sure there is a good
argument for God. Like, I'm not a philosopher. I can't give you a logical.
Don't you actually have a master's degree in philosophy?
Yeah, but that's just the degree title. I've never done any actual philosophy.
The, yeah, I don't know why it's called a master's of philosophy.
Okay, an old white man decided it should be called that.
No, that, that's, that's just the title of the degree that I have, but it was, it was all history.
Yeah. So yeah, I can't like, I can't give you a syllogism about like why, why God exists.
Because like, again, it's, it's, it's emotional for me. It's, I'm taking it on faith. I have no
good argument for it. Well, I, and this is one of the reasons why I really like you is you're
very honest. You just say how it is. And that's really good. A lot of, a lot of people would
like dance around that question and just, and you know, make up all these reasons where you're
just like, it's just, I don't have a good reason. That's what I believe. And I'll go, okay, great.
Like, at least we can, at least we can have a conversation. So this one might be a bit of a
hard question to answer. But if you were convinced that God was against homosexuality or queerness,
would you advocate that queer people live in celibacy? Absolutely. Okay. This is interesting
because obviously I've seen some of your videos about the Bible's historical context of homosexuality.
But the more, more specifically is the question is, what if God, the creator of the universe,
was against the, he was against, did not have made gay people. Interesting. Like,
you are born with whatever sexuality you're born with. And if it creates a deity does not like
the sexuality that a particular person is born with, they should not have allowed that person
to have been born with a sexuality. If you're taking, if you're taking that viewpoint, punishing
someone for the way they were made, when they had no say in it, they had no input in it,
is abusive. It's absolutely abusive. And I know that, that a lot of evangelical thought
tells you that actually, gay people aren't born that way, they're influenced or they're brainwashed
or they just want to do evil. It wasn't bullshit. Like, science tells us that actually, no, people,
people are on a spectrum of sexuality, and it's innate, it's inbuilt into that, like who they are.
And if God doesn't like it, God should not have done it. It's like, when my son tells me that
he doesn't like the fact that he's wearing the shoes he picked out for himself this morning,
well, if you didn't like those shoes, different shoes, he's poor. So, you know, there's a reason
why he's a contrary little friend. So sometimes, yeah, that would be, that would be my, my thought
process. Interesting. Okay. Interesting. And frankly, I got sorry, a God who, a God who creates
people in a particular way, and then punishes them for being that way, and tells them, you may not
live your fullest life, you must not have any sexual expression, because it is contrary to my
wishes, is an abusive fuck. And I have no interest in believing or worshiping him.
Yeah, that's, that's, that's very, I mean, I agree, like, it's very interesting. A lot of,
I've heard a lot of people talk about it as if it's like a thorn in your side, like, like, you
know, it's like something that is there that you can't. Yeah, it's like character building or, or
no, no, no, it can be very use. If we're taking that viewpoint, it's abuse.
Yeah. So when did you choose to be queer? Sorry. I had to, I had to just say something stupid.
I actually interviewed, I interviewed, I've just, I just have to, I'd have to do it, but I
interviewed Hailey Brooke, and she, she actually lost her family when she came out of gay, which
is really unfortunate, because her family was super religious. And halfway through the interview,
I was like, wait, so, so you're not into me? Like, like, you're not, and I'm like, I, I don't know
if I believe you, but you're not, so you're saying you're not attracted to me at all? Like,
this doesn't, right. She burst out laughing. I was like, yeah, I just love messing with people sometimes.
So last question, and thank you so much for your time, but regarding your God belief,
what evidence would change your mind?
Or let's change that. What reason could you see to change your mind?
You got a masters in philosophy, so you should be at a really good
I don't know.
And you don't care?
I mean, not, not really. It's, I always say that if, if I de-convert, it will be because of other
Christians. Like, internet apologists, evangelicals trying to decide what I can and cannot do with
my body. Other evangelicals saying that vaccines are the work of the devil and like,
and it wouldn't even be a de-conversion. It would be a realignment away from Christianity as a label
and towards something else that is not so openly toxic. And I have to say, moving here from the UK
was an eye-opening experience coming into contact with American evangelicalism, or evangel, evangelism?
Not sure. That particular branch of religion was like,
is this real? What are we doing? Do you think this is healthy?
Jesus was the most amazing American that has ever lived.
I mean, he was. He really was. And did you know that Donald Trump is his second cousin?
Are you joking? The people don't actually believe that, do they?
I don't know. I made that up. It's entirely. No, some, I mean, someone somewhere believes that
something like that. Oh, surely. But I was going to, if that was like a real thing that was going
around, it wouldn't, it wouldn't be a reason. It would be other, it would be evangelical Christianity.
And I, I don't think I'd de-convert. I think it would be a movement towards some kind of
pagan belief instead. Interesting. I, I, I'm just before when you were mentioning about the
problem of evil, I forgot to mention that something that came up when I was speaking to Arjuna of,
of theology unleashed is a Hare Krishna. And he said, well, what he found really interesting
when he moved away from Christianity into becoming into vashnaivism, I always screw it up.
Hare Krishna belief system is that there is no problem of evil. They don't have the problem of
evil because of how their philosophical worldview works. I thought that was really interesting.
And just to touch on your last point about, you know, your beliefs and what would change your mind,
I can kind of get on that same page because I actually about shifting your perspective to like
a different thing. Cause as I mentioned before, my perspective is I had these tremendous
warm feelings towards God. And when I read the Bible, even even now when I read the Bible,
I'm filled with this feeling of just love and sometimes not all the time. It's not like extra
18 or whatever. But I remember being, we went to Bali. I've told this story before. We, I was pool
side. I had had a couple of cocktails. I was listening to the Bhagavad Gita because it's a
Hindu island. I want to learn more about Hindu culture. And chapter six of the Bhagavad Gita
sounds something straight out of like Job or Isaiah or something. It's like, I am the flame and the
wood, the wood and the flame that consumes it. I am the beginning and the end. I am the life and
the life giver and I am death and life. And there's all this kind of really poetic language.
And I actually got like feelings of like, whoa, like this like warm, beautiful feelings. Obviously,
the Bhagavad Gita has the caste system. So I'd reject stuff like that as well. But yeah, but,
but I see where you're coming from. If your belief system is inherently built on,
I believe this because it makes me feel good. I don't really care about, you know, this, like,
I, it's, it's, I can see where you're coming from because I have, I feel the same things when I,
when I read or think about the, you know, the idea of Jesus saving humanity, or even if it
didn't happen or it didn't happen, and I'm an atheist or the Bhagavad Gita, reading the Bhagavad
Gita, but even parts of the Quran when I read that were really beautiful. Some parts were
absolutely horrible, much like every religious text seems to have. But yeah, it was, so yeah,
I think what you said there was really interesting. I did just remember, I did find some proof of the
existence of God. And I hoped she never, ever sees this because she will disown me completely.
Our nine year old, a year and a half ago now, was very excited. And she came and she told me that
she had Googled God, and she'd found his photograph. So, you know, problems.
Yeah, there you go. That's awesome.
And he looks very much like Santa Claus. And if you type God into Google, you too can,
can gaze upon his face.
I wonder if, depending on where you are in the world, if there's different images come up.
That's interesting.
That's pretty interesting. Well, thank you so much, Megan Lewis, for coming onto the Deep Drinks
podcast. Just to shout you guys out one more time, go check out Digital Hammurabi, but also
check out what, did the Old Testament or slavery, even though Megan spoiled it before.
Then you find out all the whys and wherefores and all that.
And it's super, it's super well balanced too. Like it's got, like, it's, it's not,
it's not Josh on his big atheistic agenda or anything. It just takes a really balanced approach.
You know, there's not much, it's, it's very short too. It's not like hard to read.
It's not, it's also not something that's like, I'm saying this in the best way possible, like
super, like it's going to get you worked up because it's not doing that. It's just,
this is what the consensus says. This is, this is the context.
We have, and this is how other academics, the majority of academics interpret that evidence.
Yeah. And I, yeah. And I really, really enjoyed this. And I can't wait for volume two.
I need to find out a way that I can get a signed copy from you guys because I just,
I want to have it on the bookshelf next to this one here. And is there going to be two or three?
There are going to be three total.
Wow.
So he's written volume two is mostly written. It's in copy editing now.
No. Yes, it is in copy editing now. And then when it comes back, we're sending it out to a
couple of people to review it. Eric Klein has agreed to go over the archaeology chapters.
He wrote 1066 and digging up Armageddon, no Armageddon, digging up Megiddo.
He's a great author if you haven't looked at his stuff. And you like archaeology,
he's definitely a person to look for. So yeah, that will be ready. It will be available before
Christmas. Okay, awesome.
And out chapters for volume three as well.
That might take a little bit longer because I'm going to make him take a break.
Good. Good. The man needs a break. He's doing too much.
I hope they're doing too much. You need to chill out. We're not chill out,
but just not take on so much stuff. You guys are doing heaps, it seems.
Another thing I will mention is the links for both these will be in the description along with
Megan and Josh's work on YouTube and things like that. I'll also put in another section of
book recommendations from Megan about the ancient alien stuff. And I'm sure you might be
able to throw in another few books that you would just love for people to read.
That will be linked down below in some resources. But besides that, thank you so much for coming
on the podcast Megan. This tea was quite delicious. It's nice not to be drunk at 10 a.m. actually.
The gimmick's worn off a little bit, but tomorrow I've got another interview and that'll be over
getting drunk. So thank you so much for coming on. Thank you for having me.
And yeah, everyone check out your stuff and thank you. Of course.
