I've gone through your Twitter over the last week or so, and it's full of interesting conversations you've had.
You said, do you see a problem with slavery and beating them in a form of discipline?
And then someone said, no, I don't see a problem. What's your objection? And then you said, easy.
Slavery in the Old Testament was for the benefit of both the slave earner and the slave.
So-called slaves had a lot of rights and are better described as some Hebrew word workers.
Slavery is wrong. Atheist also. Abortion, homosexuality, transgenderism,
triformication, et cetera, are right. They matter.
The progression in the Epic of Gilgamesh, though, is toward civilization, right?
That's that everything moves toward the city and it's all positive movement toward the city.
It's like, this is what we should be striving for. Well, if you understand that and then go read
Genesis 1 through 11, it's a polemic. It's a direct polemic against Mesopotamian concepts
of ideal civilization. And what scares me so much about slavery apologetics is when you're
making those arguments about Exodus 21, you're making the same fucking arguments
about the people made about India to the South. It's the same argument.
Welcome, everyone, to the Deep Drinks Podcast. Today, we have a very special guest.
We have Dr. Josh who graduated from Johns Hopkins University in 2017 with a PhD in
Necessaryology. It's our first doctor on the Deep Drinks Podcast.
Josh runs the Digital Hammurabi YouTube channel and podcast alongside his amazing wife, Megan Lewis,
as well as co-host the Hebane Podcast, which stands for, is that right, Hebane?
Hebane Podcast, which stands for Hebrew Bible and Ancient Near East. Dr. Josh has authored
multiple books with two of his most popular being Did the Old Testament Endure Slavery,
which spoiler alert, yes, it seems. And the atheist handbooked to the Old Testament,
Volume 1, and Volume 2 is coming out shortly. Dr. Josh has also appeared on many popular YouTube
channels such as The Atheist's Experience with Matt Delahunty, The Myth Vision Podcast,
The Non-Secretary Show, Apology Earth, The Thinking Atheist, and Modern Databate, among
many others. I hope I didn't miss any major ones. So welcome, Dr. Josh.
Oh, well, thank you. I really appreciate you having me. That was very, very gracious intro.
Well, last night, I was writing it and I'm like, man, it just keeps going. You're doing
so much at the moment. Is it your full-time job at this stage?
No, definitely not. And actually, Megan runs Digital Hammurabi, and she does. I've become
kind of a contributor to it now, but she has really taken off. I think she's almost up to
35,000 subscribers now, so she's doing a wonderful job. But yeah, I feel like I end up on more places
outside of our channel than I do on our channel anymore, doing interviews and things, which is
great. Yeah, I think that's why I'm here. I think it's maybe just because I know
people that are a lot smarter than me. That's all it is. So if we can get Josh,
then maybe we can get this other better person. No, I don't think that's the case.
So you're in America, obviously. You're America? Yeah, definitely America, because the drink of
choice that you chose is bourbon. So Woodford Reserves. I went out and got a bottle. If anyone
doesn't know, the Deep Drinks podcast is where we sip the guests' drink of choice, and we discuss
deep topics. So Josh reckons we drink this neat, so we drink this neat. This is what we do.
I just, I'm not creative. That's all it is. No, well, do you know what? Some of the drinks
that some of the guests have asked for, I've had to go out. I've never even,
like, I think last guest, we drank cucumber and mint, like a very specific cucumber and mint
vodka, and I was like, I've never tasted it in my life. I love whiskeys. So this is...
I'll tell you, I'll tell you a very short, funny story about my great inexperience drinking alcohol.
We were talking about this just a little bit before we started recording, but
when I was in Germany, I did a Fulbright year in 2014, 2015, and I had a friend out there who was,
I was, I was 30, 35, 36 at the time, does that sound right? And he was 20, and we lifted whites
together. That was our commonality. That's always our connection. And we went out one Friday night,
and I hadn't eaten, and you walk everywhere, right? And of course, I was like lifting weights,
like four hours a day or something dumb, and I hadn't eaten dinner yet. And it was probably
eight o'clock at night. And he said, man, there's this, we'll go get a Yufka Turkish. I got Turkish.
It's like a Euro. He said, we'll go get one of those, but let's get a drink first.
I knew this great bar. So we went down, it was like this cellar, and sat down there and he said,
have you ever had a deep sea diver? And I said, I don't even know what that is. So it's like,
they bring out this, look like a beer glass, full of what turns out to be like four different types
of rum, with a little bit of lime or something in it. And they give you a straw. I mean, it like,
what? So, of course, I have no experience. I have a totally empty stomach. I'm probably a
little dehydrated. And I drank this whole thing through in about three minutes. And it turned
out to be like the next hour and a half was not great. But those are the types of experiences
that I have with alcohol. So you will see me sipping this very, very slowly.
Well, yeah, I mean, I have this like it's 10am where I am in Australia. Luckily,
day drinking isn't frowned upon in Australia. So I'm, you know, I will just continue on my
awesome Saturday and probably keep the buzz going until I pass out at 6pm. So what I find
really interesting about what you've written about and who you are as a person is you started
your journey off as a pretty, towards your PhD as a pretty fundamentalist Christian. Is that right?
Yeah, that's correct. Could you give us a bit of a rundown on just like your journey,
I guess, like how did you become a Christian? How did you get involved in wanting to study
the Bible formally? And then eventually we'll talk about what kind of shifted in your faith.
Yeah, sure. So, you know, I grew up in a very fundamentalist evangelical household.
My parents are both evangelical Christians, like, you know, six days, six literal days of
creation, they're at the 6000 years old, you know, all those things. Evolution is satanic.
And my grandparents on my mother's side were like, he was ordained minister at one point.
But they were, I think in a lot of ways, responsible for, you know, training me up in
the way that I should go, right? And so, you know, I remember, I don't remember a lot about my
childhood. But I do remember being five or six years old, and having been told on a fairly
regular basis that I was going to hell. And I remember sitting on my bunk bed, one night,
and just crying and thinking I, I don't want to go to hell. And of course, I knew by that point
the plan of salvation quite well. And so, you know, I, for all those, you know, Christians out
there listening that are doubting whether I was really saved, you know, I knew that I was a sinner,
and that the penalty for my sin was death, that would be separation from God and eternity in hell.
And that there was nothing that I could do because I was a sinful person to bring about my own
salvation and be forgiven of my sin. But the Jesus Christ had done that on the cross to pay
the penalty for my sin. Once paid always, you know, this is once saved, always saved,
the penalty was paid. And so all I had to do was trust that his death on the cross to tone,
on the cross to tone for my sin, and that I would be sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise
till the day of redemption. And so I asked for that free gift of salvation and got it.
And I know that sounds crazy, maybe that I understood all of that when I was five, but
I pretty well did. And that was the majority of my life. I was very much into intrinsic
religiosity, right? I think I'm using that correctly. But, you know, it wasn't that religion was
something that was sort of attached to me or alongside my life, but it was everything about my
life. So, you know, as a teenager, driving to work, like I would remember, remember praying,
oh, Lord, let me get a parking spot, you know, and then a parking spot appears. Oh, thank you,
Lord, for providing that parking spot. Or I didn't want to speed, even though I was late,
I said, Lord, I trust you, you don't want me to speed, I'll get there on time if you want me to.
So, you know, I very much into studying the biblical text. Of course, I grew up in church,
and I went to youth group all the time on omissions trips. I was sort of your
stereotypical evangelical Christian. And at 17, I joined the Air Force and immediately started
when I got to my first duty station, started teaching a Bible study, which was so dorky,
but I did it. And I eventually, while I was on active duty, got my bachelor's degree
in religion from Liberty University, which if you're not familiar with it, it's a very fundamental
evangelical university here in the US. And I then applied to an officer chaplain program
in the Air Force and got commissioned as an officer and started seminary. And went through
six years of full-time seminary, got a master's in theology in Old Testament studies. At the same
time, I was pastoring a church out in Virginia as an associate pastor. And again, all of these
were very much fundamentalist interpretations of the text. And when I was about to finish, I was
pretty good with the languages, the biblical languages. And I had a professor tell me it would
be a waste if you didn't go get a PhD and try to get it in Hebrew or Old Testament or something,
you know, like that. And so I applied to the program at Johns Hopkins University. They have
what's called a seriology program. And where I minored in Hebrew Bible as well, because I had
an extensive background in it. And when I got in, very quickly, I was confronted in a way that I
had never been confronted before with the wider languages and cultures of the ancient Near East,
including their mythologies. And at the same time, I was learning Akkadian, I was learning Sumerian.
So I was able to read these, these texts that sort of stand behind the biblical texts. And,
you know, that then at the same time learning the historical, you know, time that the historical
information about the ancient Near East and the Levant, and realizing over and over again,
that it just doesn't in so many ways, particularly early on, match up with the Old Testament.
And so about halfway through my first semester at Johns Hopkins, I became an atheist. I remember
which class it was. It was the class on the Philistines. And, you know, we know when the
Philistines got to Canaan. And it's not when the Bible says they did. And I just remember that was
the thing that sort of drove me to take a big step back and to look at all of the data objectively
or more objectively than I had been. And to determine, well, it doesn't necessarily mean
that it's not true, but it sure doesn't seem like it is. And so I became an atheist. And then
after a couple of years, sort of settled into like an agnostic position.
But yeah, that's sort of the, that's the flow. That's how it went.
That's incredible. So was it like a, was it like the straw that broke the camel's back or
or was it like, because I can't imagine you'll be like, you know, on fire, Christian, you know,
you're praying, praying as you drove into university that day. And then that one class
happened and you're like, well, now I'm an atheist. Like, was the straw, yeah, no, that's a good
question. So it was, I guess, a bit of both, right? The process for the straw that broke
the camel's back was not long. So the story that I like to tell is I taught Biblical Hebrew
and exogenical principles of using Hebrew for the last two years that I was in seminary. I was
an adjunct professor there. And I remember I got accepted to Hopkins, which was a huge deal.
And the dean of students for the seminary, on my last day of teaching Hebrew, I was walking
out with my big stack of books. And he said, well, are you ready? Because, you know, Johns Hopkins
is a pretty liberal university. And I held up my Hebrew Bible in my hand. And because that's
what I had with me. And I said, you know, I'm going into the lion's den, but I'm going to win souls
for Christ. And I remember when I started at Hopkins, that was definitely the mentality that
I had going in. And I remember like the first week, there was a bit of a lag in some of the
Assyriology classes that they were offering. And so I ended up taking a bunch of Hebrew Bible,
Old Testament courses instead, sort of filling in the gaps with those.
And so I was, you know, very close to all the Hebrew Bible students that were in the department.
And one of them in particular, a good friend of mine named Andrew, he was in his third year at the
time. And, you know, we got to talking and he learned my background. And he said, oh, this will
be very interesting. And I said, what will, and he said, well, it'd be interesting to see how long
you last. And I said, well, what do you mean? And he said, well, you know, somebody with your
background, your interpretation of the text, this isn't going to last very long for you.
And I said, oh, you wrong guy. You know, you don't know me.
And every week, it probably took six weeks total. And, you know, every week I'd come into class.
And before class would start, he'd turn around and he'd look at me and say, how you doing?
And I'd say, it's okay. It's okay, you know, because if you get it a little bit at the time,
you can sort of, you can do apologetics, right? You can sort of, well, isn't it possible that
but the way that it was happening for me was every week, every week, it was several things that were
new and several things that were problematic. And then finally that one class, it was just something
that was so stark, so in your face, that it was like, all right, that's it. I just, I can't,
I can't hold it anymore. So relatively speaking, it was pretty quick. But it does feel like over this,
that a lot happened in that 45 minute period of time during that class. So I guess it was a little
bit of both. But it's actually interesting because I wonder, like, I haven't studied, I've done a
cert for in ministry college, in ministry, it was, you know, very, very, very ministry-esque.
But I wonder, like, when it comes to academic scholarship, things like that and studying the
Bible and stuff, I wonder how, like, how, why is it so different from like a liberal university
versus the studies you've done prior? Like what, like, surely they have the same text, the same
information. How is it approached differently? Yeah. So there are some sort of key, I don't know,
principles that are held onto an evangelicalism. One of them is the inerrancy of the text.
That's a huge thing, right? The Bible is inspired and it is inerrant. Now there's debate about
how we define inerrancy and what counts as inerrant and all these things. But, you know,
the reality is once you, once you connect together, and this is just in my experience,
but once you connect together, this book is inspired by God, and it is in some way inerrant.
You have commitments and you have commitments that
they're not so easy to shake and still hang on to them. So there are, you know, ways that people can
sort of deal with problematic passages, particularly in the Old Testament, so,
and still try to maintain some form of inerrancy. But the reality is that that position is very,
very strong in fundamentalism. And so you'll have like verbal plenary inspiration down to like the
grammatical forms that are used in the original autographs, whatever that means, the original
autographs. But when you have that level of commitment, now it's like, well, and oftentimes
in fundamentalist interpretations, they don't respect genre, maybe as much as they should.
Or, let me say it this way, they don't respect genre sometimes as much as
maybe more, slightly more liberal evangelicals would like.
And so what ends up happening is just, well, it says here that God created in six days,
and so God created in six days. And it says that, you know, Methuselah lived, you know,
what, 969 years? And so here it is, 969 years. And you can sort of do the calculations, right, and
figure out the age of the earth. And of course, more mainstream evangelicals will tell you things
like, no, you have to read this, you know, in its ancient Near Eastern context, and I agree.
Oh, the word context. That's, yeah.
And that's true, right? The problem, and we can talk about this, you know, as we go through,
but I mean, the problem with context is it becomes sort of a catch all, I could get out of jail free
card, right? Well, you just, you know, you read a really problematic passage about slavery, and
well, you just have to understand the broader context. Yeah, well, help me, help me understand
the broader context, my guy. Yeah. That's funny, you funny mention that example, because that's
exactly what, like, I understand, you definitely need to understand all this in context. And that's
why I love your book so much is because I think you do, you do a very honest portrayal of like,
I've only started the atheist guide to the Old Testament, but which is amazing, by the way,
I'm loving it more than the slavery one. But the slavery book, I read it for the second time
in preparation for this interview. And it's, it's so balanced, like it's so in the middle of the road,
you, you say atheists get things wrong here, you know, Christians fundamentalists get things wrong
here. This is what scholars tend to tend to say. And I really appreciate that. And so I started
making like TikToks or random videos about slavery. And, and everyone would say that you just don't
understand the context. And I would just reply, can you tell me the context? Yeah. And then
ghosts, like I just disappeared, I wouldn't hear from them again. And this is multiple people,
like, yeah, 10, 15 people. And I'm like, what, what do you mean? What's the context? If you don't,
if I don't know the context, tell me, or they'll say, they'll even say, you don't know the context.
And I say, well, can you tell me the context? And one lady got back and said, it's better you
go read the context yourself. And I said, I have, what do you mean? I've, I've, I've become sort of
a terrible human being on TikTok. So I, I started this at the, at the request of a couple of people,
I started a TikTok account or channel or something called not Kent Hovind.
And I am the biggest fan of that. My wife is sick of me singing rap. Like,
well, my name is Kent Hovind coming back from T-Rex. Yeah, I lost it. Like, that's amazing. I, I,
I need to put out more content. I just, I have to think of things to say and it's tough to do.
You just need to do those little mouthing. Yes.
Oh, well, let me tell you, David, uh, you know, yeah, so.
Oh, wacky, I'll sit you straight. It's so good. So good.
But I, I take that account now, like when I go on and scroll through, I'll scroll through the lives
that are going on and, uh, I'll get Bible studies. And so here I am. I'm not,
I'm not Joshua Bowen, you know, I'm not like digital homerabi. I'm this
goofy account, not Kent Hovind, right? So there's some anonymity. And so I'll go in there and,
and they'll be, you know, talking about, Oh God is, you know, you just got to the Old Testament is so
amazing. And I'll say, yeah. So why do you think that he endorsed slavery in the laws of the Old
Testament? And that's the number one thing you hear, right? Oh, you don't understand the context.
And I'll say, Oh, well, could we read it out loud right now? Block. Yeah.
I know. And I can see from their perspective, they, they would just assume you're a troll or
something, right? Which I guess I am. But yeah, yeah, I guess, but it's, it's just amazing that like
it's, it's hard to have these conversations. Like you, you can't ask them for context about
slavery or genocide and not appear like a troll. Like it's so, how do you do that? How do you go?
Like, Hey, can we talk about God's genocide? Like, it just, it always comes across like you're
trying to pick a fight. Right. Right. Yeah. Anyway, that's a, it's an amazing, yeah, it's an amazing
story. How did you handle with, handle emotionally kind of having such a shift in your, I guess,
identity? Very difficult. And almost ironically,
I have a friend named Mark, and Mark and I went to seminary together, just outside of DC.
And we were best friends. Like we learned Hebrew together. We used to lock ourselves in a room
with a Hebrew grammar and a Hebrew dictionary, Hebrew English dictionary. And we would say
no English for the next three hours. And we would just speak Hebrew to each other. We were so dorky.
But, you know, it really helped obviously to, to sort of immerse yourself that way. But that's
how close we were. And I have, I was telling you earlier, like I have multiple sclerosis and it
does some wonderful things to my brain chemistry and my neurology that I don't understand completely.
But one of the things that I get is massive amounts of anxiety. And I, I was married at the
time I was going to Hopkins, and we lived out in Virginia. And so I was driving an hour and 45
minutes into the campus and then renting out this little apartment on North Howard Street
so that I could be on campus, you know, five days a week and then drive back home on the weekends.
And it was very, it's very difficult for me, particularly by myself to live in the city. It
it was, it was anxiety inducing for me. And he would come up every Thursday, every Thursday evening,
it was my last class for the week. And he would pick me up in his car. And we drive out to Uno's
pizza. And we get a pizza. And we just talk. And pretty quickly, it became clear that I was,
you know, sliding away from the faith. And of course, he was not. And so we were, we would have
these really candid conversations, we'd walk around the parking lot at night, we'd walk around
this place, go to Ellicott City, get a coffee and just just talk and talk things through. And
so ironically, that was actually really helpful for me because it was a,
he was a sounding board for me to sort of transition and walk through why it is that I have these
problems and to listen to him honestly without a lot of judgment. And it was just, it was actually
really useful and really nice. So, but you know, my family is all still very fundamentalist,
evangelical. And I love them to death and they love me, but it doesn't mean I don't hear about it
or, you know, get prayed for all the time and get told that I get prayed for all the time.
I've been called some by certain members of my family, I've been called some pretty rough things.
We put out a video, a recent research series is what we called it. And there was a, there's a
professor up at Harvard named Don Derchewitz, who wrote an article in 2017 about homosexuality
in the book of Leviticus. And it's a complicated argument, but he's making the argument that
originally that passage in Leviticus 18 wasn't about same sex relationships, what was about incest
and implicitly condoned same sex relationships. And so I did this short little video, popular
level video, and is basically saying, look, it looks like Leviticus may have originally
condoned same sex couplings. Oh, that's a spice. That's going to get the fundamentalist mad.
Yeah. And I won't mention who, but someone in my family who I love dearly, very, very close to me,
called me a pervert. And it was just, it was just really, really rough.
So those sorts of things, those sorts of things are, they still exist. But it's getting better.
It's getting better. I guess I am open about these things. I'm currently in therapy
with a religious trauma specialist. That's what he specializes in to sort of keep working through
these fears about hell. Because if anybody's grown up in fundamentalist evangelicalism,
hell is a very real threat, right? And it's often what drives you to the faith and keeps you there.
And I have some very deeply incised ruts in my brain where I can know the ancient Near East.
I'm presenting a paper at a conference here in July on the background to death and the
afterlife and the ancient Near East and the Hebrew Bible. So it's not like I don't know about
where hell came from and where it developed and all those things, the idea of it. But that doesn't
mean that at night I don't sometimes lie down and say, and what if this is just the wisdom of this
world? What if this is just man's wisdom? What if I am being blinded by Satan? And this is just all
part of it, right? And it's a very real thing. So I'm working with a professional to sort of
work through some of those things. I often say for myself that there was a stage in my life where
people were asking, would you do this for God? Would you do that for God? Would you do this for
God? And I said, listen, I would do anything for God. I would die for God. I would do absolutely
anything. Like nothing was off limits. If I knew it was God telling me to do something, I'd do
something. And it was such a hard shift. But for me, I've got a little bit of, I don't know if
you call it religious trauma, but I was definitely affected by
church's purity culture, or Christianity's purity culture. And for the first, like my wife and I
were Christians up until we were married and a bit further past that. And the first time we slept
together was on our wedding night. And having sex was fine and everything. But for the first few
years, I would have intense anxiety before we had sex. And after having sex about nine out of
10 times, like I would just feel bad or wrong or guilty. Or I couldn't understand why I was anxious,
but I was just anxious. It was such a horrible way to start a marriage and start that level of
intimacy. Because yeah, it was just, and all I can put it down to is the purity culture in church,
and especially that book, Every Man's Battle and the whole series. That series.
I taught that series when I was a pastor.
So did I. So did I. Yeah. Oh no. And it's so like there was, I remember watching the DVD series
of Every Man's Battle. And it was like this one, you know, it was like, you know, they're
interviewing Ted Bundy. And he's like, you know what, all the serial killers here, they watch
porn and then that's the connection. Or there's this one guy and he's like, he watched, he was
a teenager and he watched so much porn that he found that he was turned gay. And I was like,
whoa. And I remember talking to my secular friends and I was saying things like, why
you got so much anxiety around sex and porn and stuff? Like this is when I was a teenager.
And I was like, I just don't, and I used to make a joke. I was like, I just don't want to end up
behind a bar giving some dude a blow job. And he's like, what? Like he's,
his mind's like, where do you get his connection from? And I look back, I'm like, because of all
this like, yeah, eventually you just won't be able to control yourself when you be sleeping with
dogs and, and yeah, like it's disgusting. Yeah. Yeah. Obviously the bourbon has taken an effect.
I've started to rant a little bit, but that's good. Good, good. Well, your story, that's an
amazing story. But I did actually want to touch on an academic overview of a seriology. But before
we do that, I noticed you have a little plaque behind you. And that, and what is that? This guy?
Yeah. So this is a painting of what's called the Mush Hushu Dragon. And it's an Akkadian
word, but it comes from a Sumerian word, like the fierce dragon. And it's on the Ishtar gate.
So this is the original painting. But this is one of the figures that's on the Ishtar gate
in Nebuchadnezzar, the Seconds Palace, the gate. You can see it online if people Google it. But
this particular painting was done by Christina Blackfeather, who's a fan of ours. And
she painted it live on her channel. And it took several, I mean, it's pretty big. Let me back
up so you can get some perspective. So I'm 6'2". Oh, whoa. Yeah. Okay. It's, it's, it's pretty big.
Uh, yeah. And she painted it live and then sent it to us for free along with one of two prints
that she made. And Megan runs a nonprofit organization called Humans Against Poor Scholarship,
which gives scholarships to PhD students to get through the summer when they don't get funding.
And she said, I'd like to, I'd like you to keep the original painting and sell one of the prints
and whatever money you make from it. You know, have that be my donation to
the HAPS, the Humans Against Poor Scholarship program. And this is incredibly generous. And
it's just absolutely beautiful. So we put it right here in the background. So every video that we do,
everybody can see her work. Well, it's um, I, I wasn't sure if it had anything to do with this,
but I'm going to share my screen. Uh, my wife and I, part of, um, actually was, I think it was part
of what opened our eyes to the broader picture of other religions and stuff. We went on a world trip
and up in Berlin and up in a museum and we ended up in front of this. That's it. That's it. Wow.
So I have no, we have no idea what this is. We're just standing in front of it like, wow,
this is an important thing. It's awesome. Um, yeah, I don't know if it's original or
all the way over in Berlin. Um, yeah, I, I, I, I've, I've not been to that museum, but I think
I think that is the original. Yeah, I think because it was an, an, a, um, like a museum for
Middle Eastern kind of things. Yeah. But yeah, it's, it looked, it looked so similar when I first
saw the channel. That's what it is. It's exactly what it is. Yep. That's so cool. Yeah. Like,
they're different, different animals. Um, yeah. But look at the absolute ignorance of what I'm
standing in front of. Like, I wish I could go back now and, um, and, uh, educate some people
like, you don't even, you probably don't even know what this is. Yeah, exactly. Do you even
scholar? Um, so I'd love for you to explain to the audience, what is the seriology?
Um, yeah. So maybe to sort of, uh, like very briefly, it is the study of the languages and
cultures of ancient Iraq and Syria, for the most part. Um, and they're our oldest civilizations,
right? Uh, they are, yeah, I mean, it depends on how you're defining civilization, I guess,
but it's, it's the oldest writing comes from Esopotamia. Okay. Um, and yeah, I mean, I,
for cities, those sorts of things. Um, so, uh, the, the period of time that we study is pretty
broad. It, you know, runs from roughly 3000 BCE down to the, you know, the, um, time of Alexander
the Great, you know, down around 330. Um, but it's throughout that, that entire area, and it's
broader than that, right? Because, um, a serologist can, you know, study, uh, areas up in Turkey,
uh, but it's, it's, you know, over in Iran, but it's that whole area there of Iraq and Syria,
and the, and the regions, you know, immediately adjacent to it. Um, which means that most
the serologists will study Akkadian, the languages of Akkadian and Sumerian, and the texts that are
written, uh, in those languages. Um, so it's, it, the name comes from ancient Assyria,
uh, which was, you know, over in Mesopotamia, uh, which is Mesopotamia means the land between
the two rivers. So the Tigris and Euphrates rivers, if you can picture Iraq, uh, the head of the
Persian Gulf, and then those two rivers that kind of split and go up. I frantically, just so you
know, I frantically started Googling my history because I, I knew nothing about a seriology,
Mesopotamia, nothing, nothing. Um, I've always been really bad at history. And last night,
I'm like, frantically like, uh, well, if, if people are interested, um,
chapter two of Atheist handbook to the Old Testament is, uh, it's a history of the ancient
Near East focusing on Mesopotamia or from the Mesopotamian perspective. Um, and then book two,
volume two, which is getting ready to come out here in a couple of months. Uh, I give a history
of the ancient Near East from the Egyptian perspective. So focusing on Egyptian history,
and then book three, which will be the final book in the series. Um, we'll give it from the
Levantine, like the Syro-Palestinian, um, perspective. So ancient Israel, their perspective. So,
uh, should be, should be good. Uh, I think, I hope. Well, so I'm up to that chapter,
and it's been an amazing book so far. And obviously links are in the description for
all your work. The audio book is great for the slave, the slavery book and the, um,
the, the Atheist guide to the Old Testament. And it's not just Atheist either because I get the,
it's, because what I find a lot with Christian texts is they, they layer it with so much theology
that you don't get a lot of the history. Like, so it's like, you know, it seems sometimes like
50% theology, 50% history. And you don't know what, if the history has been twisted to kind of
match the, what I love about this book is Christians could read it and just get a very,
very entertaining and simple overview of very complex issues about the Old Testament.
One of the things that, you know, we all have biases. There's no question about that. And,
you know, nobody, nobody in academia that I know, Christian or Atheist or whatever,
would say that they don't have biases. I mean, we can't get away from biases.
Um, the, the struggle is to sort of fight against them, right? And one of the problems with apologetics,
Christian apologetics in particular, um, but of course in any other apologetic field,
is that you can't be strictly as like, you can't try to be as unbiased as possible. There's only
a certain amount of unbiased that you can be, because there are fundamental things that you
have to hold to, right? Because you're starting in, in a lot of ways, you're starting with a
conclusion and you're having to hold to that. Even if that conclusion is, this is the inspired
word of God, if that's the case, you already have serious commitments. Um, and so what I,
I realized that this was definitely a marketing strategy calling it the Atheist handbook to the
Old Testament. Um, it is, it's definitely marketed and geared toward atheists and skeptics,
because the way that the books are written, they're saying, look, if you're having discussions with
family members, with people online, uh, if people at work that are saying things like the Bible is
um, you know, like the Old Testament is so different than any of the other stuff that we
see in the Ancient Aries, and all the peoples in the Ancient Aries were really barbaric, but
you know, the people, the Bible is really progressive and um, you know, actually slavery is not slavery
and uh, violence, you know, that was totally justified when God annihilated entire uh, ethnic
groups, that was okay because they were really sinful. Um, if you're having those discussions,
that's who the book is for. The book is for you to be, to get a broad um, somewhat deep uh,
introduction to the Ancient Aries and the Hebrew Bible, but then to uh, be armed with information
about these specific topics like slavery, like who wrote the Pentateuch, like the prophecy against
the city of Tyre that failed in Ezekiel, those sorts of things. Um, but the real, no, definitely not,
of course, because prophecies can't fail, so that's right. They can't, I mean, that's how it works,
right? Um, yeah, but for me, the point I guess I was, I'm trying to drive it incredibly slowly,
and I apologize for that, is um, while I have biases, biases that uh, are often brought about
just by my life experience, where I'm from, you know, the fact that I'm a white male in, you know,
the 20, uh, in uh, 2000 or 2022, um, I have biases that I'm, some that I'm aware of, some that I'm
not aware of, but I, I don't compound that with some of these other, I think, incredibly much
more problematic biases. Uh, and so when I write this book, I can say things like atheists get this
wrong, right? And Christian apologists get this wrong. Look, here's, these are the data points.
This is what we're all looking at. This is what we're all working with. Here are the models.
None of them say Moses wrote the Pentateuch, right? Uh, outside of fundamentalist evangelicalism or,
you know, the types of evangelicalism, Moses didn't write the Pentateuch. Um, so, uh, yeah,
I think that's an important distinction to make. Oh, you just, you kind of just answered one of
the questions for the Q and A, but uh, sorry, sorry. No, that's good. That's good. We can touch
on it again. So how does it relate to biblical, how does the seriology relate to biblical studies?
Yeah. Um,
big sip of bourbon. Sorry. No, no, I was like, oh, that's tough one.
So, uh, you know, the earliest, um, the earliest attestation that we have for Israel
in, uh, in history comes from 1207 BCE. And there's a, a stele called the Merneptah Stele,
and it's, Farah Merneptah is doing a campaign into Canaan. And he says, I conquered and wiped out
this people group called Israel. So that's the earliest that we got. We don't really have anything
until like what, the 9th century, 10th century. Um, but several, you know, several, uh, 100 years
later. And the, so, so Israel is part of, uh, a cultural tapestry that goes way back earlier
than, uh, Israel's history. So, you know, if you think about, way, if you, if you picture a map,
uh, of the ancient Near East, you've got the Mediterranean Sea over here, and I guess it would
be for you to be over here. Can't tell how this mirrors, but, uh, you know, on one side you have
the Mediterranean and Israel over here. And then on the other side, you have the head of the Persian
Gulf and you have Mesopotamia here. Um, this whole area has such a rich history. Um, and, you know,
writing appears at the end of the fourth millennium in Mesopotamia. We start getting like economic
and administrative texts. And then pretty soon into the third millennium, you're getting mythological
texts. You're getting, um, it just, it really gets literature and it really develops. And then by the
time you get to the early second millennium, you just have this explosion of Sumerian and Akkadian
literature. And we're still 800 years before, 700 years before the first mention of Israel.
And so, you know, Israel, the Israelites were Canaanites from the land of Canaan.
Um, and they, they developed out of the mythology, uh, part of, you know, you can see it in the Hebrew
Bible, very, uh, you know, it's, it, uh, there's a lot of background, Canaanite background. Um,
and so you also have an awful lot of influence, um, on the Hebrew Bible from Mesopotamia.
So Mesopotamian literature, Akkadian literature, like the flood story is a great example. If you
read through the Akkadian story of Atrahasis, um, from the first half of the second millennium BCE,
uh, and you compare that to the Epic of Gilgamesh, Tablet 11, which is from, you know, maybe 500 years
later, um, that story, those versions of that, of the flood story are what, like, it's what the
Hebrew Bible writers with the scribes used. Um, and I have a chapter on that in, in volume two,
uh, of the Atheist handbook. And so, and it's more than just the literature, right? If you read
through Exodus 21, for example, in the part of the Covenant Code, you'll see striking resemblances
to the, to the laws of Hammurabi, right? So even the way they, um, organize and, and, and think about,
um, things like case law, if you ever read through, you know, uh, Exodus or Deuteronomy and it, if
such and such happens, then such and such will happen as a result. These, if then they call this
casualistic law, well, this is, this, this comes from Mesopotamia. Um, so the, the reason that there's
such a strong connection here and it's so useful and so relevant to studying the Hebrew Bible
is that the Hebrew Bible, it was not handed down from one high in a vacuum, right? It's
polling from, it's utilizing, it's reworking and reshaping literary and mythological traditions,
uh, and, and cultural traditions, um, and, and, and even like legal rationale that have been,
that had been in the area for thousands of years. And so understanding all of that background,
then coming to the Hebrew Bible, it sets it all in its context and it sets it so, so you can sit
down and you can read, for example, when you, when you read through the conquest narrative of the book
of Joshua and you see these, uh, what scholars have pointed out are probably hyperbolic statements,
right, about wiping absolutely everybody out. Well, if you read through Sennacherib's, uh,
inscriptions about what he does, the Neo-Syrian king, you see that he says similar stuff, right?
Um, it's a, it's a way that they speak. Now that gets abused, tremendously abused, I write about
it in the second book. I have a chapter on violence and genocide, um, in the Old Testament,
but the point is that you can understand genre, you can understand, um, where they're getting
individual themes or motifs from, and that helps you understand, uh, what the text itself is doing.
And I'll give one very brief example that I develop a lot in the book. If you read through
Genesis one through 11, which is called the primeval history, there's a progression.
If you think about it, particularly starting in the, in the Eden narrative, mankind is created
very much in line with the animals, right? There's a, there's a close connection between
man and the animals, right? The man is created and then the animals are created and they're
brought before him to see who's going to be a helper and no helper is found. Um, but then woman
is created and the man and the woman are naked. They're unashamed. Uh, this is very much akin to
what you see in the Epic of Gilgamesh with the character of Enkidu. Enkidu is this wild man
who's on clothes, these out roaming, you know, in the step. Um, the progression in the Epic of
Gilgamesh though is toward civilization, right? Enkidu, uh, becomes, you know, has sex with a
woman for seven days and becomes human, becomes civilized. He puts on clothing, he eats bread,
he drinks beer, then he goes to the major city of Uruk and he meets, you know, Gilgamesh and,
and everything is all about moving toward the pinnacle of civilization, which is the city,
right? That's the, everything moves toward the city and it's all positive movement toward the
city. It's like, this is what we should be striving for. Well, if you understand that and then go read
Genesis one through 11, you have movement, similar movement from innocence, you know, nakedness, um,
toward Genesis 11, which is the Tower of Babel story, toward the city and notice it's Babylon,
the Tower of Babylon, the city of Babylon. Um, but that movement is all negative,
right? Think about the movement toward, uh, you know, the people following Cain and Abel,
right? They get more civilized, they're building cities, but it's all bad, right? They all fall
into sin. Everybody's wicked. The God, he always starts over with Noah and his sons and what do
they immediately say? It starts moving again toward civilization, toward civilization. And
ultimately it coalesces, it climaxes in this city and Tower of Babel, um, which is the, the, the
worst thing possible. And what does Yahweh do? Right? They all come together. They want to
build a tower up to heaven. It's, I mean, it's, it's a smack in the face to this ideal that the
Mesopotamians had of the city and civilization. And what does he do? He scatters them. And who
does he pick? He picks Abram, pulls him from where? Out of, or of the Caldees, out of Mesopotamia,
pulls him out with his family. And what do they do the rest of his life? They wander around.
They wander around intense, right? It's, it's, it's a polemic. It's a direct polemic against
Mesopotamian concepts of ideal civilization. And so if you can understand that, if you can,
you know, if, if, if we can get on, and again, I write about this in more detail in the book,
but if you can, if we can sort of wrap our heads around that, then it becomes clear.
This isn't a matter of plagiarism, right? It's not that the Old Testament writers,
it's not that the Judean scribes are going, okay, I'm lifting this story because they
didn't have a concept of plagiarism. There's no moral component to this. There aren't like
intellectual ideas that are owned by people. Rather, what they're doing is the example that
I always give is they're acting like Eminem, right? If you listen to one of Eminem's albums,
more recent albums, he reworks so many different artists. The song that always pops to mind is
Remind Me. It's the example that I always give, but it's a reworking of Joan Jets,
I Love Rock and Roll. And you can hear how he reworks it, the music itself is a replay of it,
reworking of it, and some of the ideas. It's not that he's plagiarizing, right? He's pulling it
for a very specific effect. And that's how we have to think about this. We have to think about
what are they doing? Why is it that Genesis 1 sounds so goddamn similar to the Enuma Elish,
right, to the ascendancy of Marduk? Why are there hints all over the place that it's like it,
right? It's pulling from it. It's because it's a polemic, right? It's trying to say,
we know what you guys think. Yahweh did it, not Marduk. Yahweh's better, not Marduk. And here's how
we're showing that. Okay, so you've blown my mind. None of those are my ideas, by the way,
just so it's clear. There's a great article by Ron Hendle that talks about that progression.
He's one of the scholars that's written on that.
That's amazing. Everything clicks a lot more. I did actually want to push back
on, I'm trying to flip back into my fundamentalist mind for a second to try and think about
how someone may try and push back on what you're saying. I've heard, or maybe,
so we know historically that, I mean, it's a whole other thing to say, did the Exodus
happen and all that stuff, but we know historically when these books were written differs from the
theological ideas of when these things happened, right? So like, it might say the Exodus happened,
you know, like your Bible, it might say the Exodus happened probably 2000 BC or something. I don't
know what the actual dates are, 1500 BC. 15th century. Yeah. And so that's what the theological
claim is. I know that there are some problems historically with the Exodus, you know, were
they ever in Egypt, we can get into that at another point. But for a theologian,
couldn't a theologian say that, no, no, no, these were oral traditions that the Mesopotamians
started writing down, got a little some few things wrong. But God kept the old traditional
life in what would become the Israelites. And then they when they did write it down,
they wrote down it down the way God first intended. And so it was like the cup full horse kind of
thing. So usually what goes along with that is, well, there was an actual worldwide flood,
right? That's sort of that's sort of the linchpin to that. That's why it's it goes that way.
And so the problem that you have to wrestle with there are there are many. But just in the field
of humanities, the problems that you have to wrestle with, if you're going by that, you know,
more fundamentalist biblical approach, the flood supposed to happen sometime in the middle of the
third millennium, right? We know a lot about the middle of the third millennium. We have a lot of
original like extant cuneiform clay tablets from that period. And it's it you can like go to an
archaeological site and dig down into the Holy Bronze Age down into the third millennium.
And we have like we we know what's going on. It's not a mystery. So that's one thing that you have
to contend with. Probably the bigger problem. I think I mean, besides the fact that you have
to have Sargon of Akkad established the Akkadian Empire, the old Akkadian Empire, 20 years after
all of humanity has been wiped out. I mean, other than that,
and you're not talking about the YouTube Twitch, a person who time travels back in time,
you're not talking about Sargon of Akkad, the original.
But the other thing that you have to wrestle with just thinking more about a textual the textual
tradition is that we actually don't see flood stories, Mesopotamian flood stories appearing
until right around 2000. In other words, it's not that there's been this tradition that's been
carried on since the middle of the third millennium. And because we have writing, we have mythologies,
we have stories, literature put down, nothing is said. In fact, we have what's called the Sumerian
Kinglist. And the Sumerian Kinglist is a late third millennium. It was probably written sometime
in the late third millennium, but there's an earlier version of it that doesn't have the flood story.
Later, there's a line that says after the flood swept over, right? So it's appended or it's added
to the Sumerian Kinglist. But those traditions don't start, we don't see them in the literary
record and the textual record until just after 2000 BCE. So what you'd have to argue
is that not only do we not see it anywhere in Canaan until well into the first millennium,
right? And that there's just some oral tradition, but that the Mesopotamians who were also at the
center of this and had the exact same goddamn story down to individual vocabulary words, by the way.
They just went 500 years without saying anything about it. Their entire civilization was destroyed
even though we have no record of that. We have lots of record of the civilization continuing
right on through. But they just saw this global flood, this worldwide flood and went,
oh, hum, let's hold off in talking about that for half a millennium. To say that it strains
credulity is very generous, I think. It's also one of those things where the flood is such a
fun thing to talk to fundamentalists with because it's so obviously like I went through,
I live in Australia, I went through and counted all the endemic species that we have in Australia,
like things that not including birds or fish because they could fly and swim from Mount Ararat
all the way to Australia. 19,601 might have been the endemic species we have in Australia.
And I actually, I have two friends who work for who have worked and work for
the Wauwauw Hospital, Steve Elwin's Residues Hospital that's just down the road.
And they've given me tours of the koala enclosures and stuff. And they're like,
look, they're like koalas can't get the specific type of eucalyptus leaves that they like,
that they want. They will choose to die in the tree rather than eat a type of eucalyptus leaf.
And so like they're so dumb, like it's written regarding to a species that it's amazing that
they've survived this long and all their brain power has gone to taking the nutrients from,
I mean, I'm not a biologist or whatever, but that's what I've heard. And even like a different
stages in their life, they'll eat the shoots, they'll eat older leaves, if they're feeling sick,
they'll eat different species of leaves and they'll eat it further up the tree.
And I've heard apologists say, maybe with koalas, they had other foliage and they sprayed
eucalyptus oil that Noah had made that wasn't written down. And I'm like, at what stage,
or I remember mentioning it to a family member, mentioning this to a family member. And I said,
what about problem with Noah's flood and stuff? And they said, well, maybe God just
created the animals after, like maybe he just repopulated the earth with the animals. And I
said, what's the point of the arc? And also, you're just making stuff up now, like you just
not mentioned it anywhere. So yeah, it's always a fun, fun topic to talk about because it's like,
I mean, I don't mean to be crude to anyone who may believe this, but it fails on every
single level. You can take it literally. And this is this is what's sort of frustrating to me.
I was watching a Twitter thread with someone who was making a, I guess, an abductive argument,
I'm not a philosopher, but someone who was making an abductive argument about morality
in the Old Testament. And somebody was arguing against them critiquing their abductive argument,
like a deductive argument. And of course, in a deductive argument, I say, of course, like,
how do I know about philosophy? But I'm kind of following along.
So abductive is like the evidence leads to the most reasonable conclusion or something like
that. There's another way to say it, but it's not a premise one, premise two. Therefore,
it necessarily follows premise three. That's deductive. Argument to the best explanation,
I think, is what it's called. But they were saying, well, it's not impossible that X could be true.
Therefore, I win. Which if you're saying that this is my deductive proof that this is the case,
and you can find a chink in the armor of one of the premises, fine, then that proof fails.
But that's not what the guy was doing. The guy was saying, well, you have an immutable God
in the Old Testament who's commanding genocide or commanding slavery, something that we know to
be immoral. That seems like that God isn't real, right? And they were saying, what is it?
Wrote down the wrong thing, or maybe they weren't hearing from God. Yeah, but yeah. Right.
But this is the sort of thing with apologetics, right? It's, I wrote a chapter in volume one
on the dating of the book of Daniel. And Daniel gets a lot of details wrong,
and he gets some bigger stuff wrong too. But one of the things that he says is that
Belchazar, who was the son of Nabonitis, the Neo Babylonian king, was actually the son of
Nebuchadnezzar, which is just not true, right? And so an apologist will come back and he gets
like clockwork. If they know anything about it, they'll say, well, wait a minute, the word in
Hebrew for son and father, those words can mean grandson and grandfather as well. You're like,
yeah, but he wasn't his grandson either, right? Yeah, but he could have been because, you know,
Nebuchadnezzar had a daughter that married Nara Glisser, who was another Neo Babylonian king,
and it's possible, right, that maybe he had another daughter that also married Nabonitis,
and that would make Nebuchadnezzar his grandfather. Well, I mean, if you're like,
it's possible that it's possible that it's possible, and then that's what you're standing on.
Like, there's not a lot that I could do, right? Because what you've done is you've said,
I need this conclusion to be correct. All I have to do is find a possibility, and that's how it
works. The thing that bothers me about apologetics and not to throw too much shade on the apologist,
because I do have appreciation for some, especially Michael Jones. I really like
Michael Jones. I think he's as honest as an apologist as you can be. But, you know,
I still disagree with a lot of these conclusions, but I like him. Michael and I are pretty good
friends. Oh, cool, cool. Yeah, he's a good guy. He was on this podcast, and it was a really
interesting conversation. And he also chose whiskey, which is interesting to be drinking whiskey with
an apologist. But the whole thing, the whole field of apologists, apology? Apologetics.
Apologetics, sorry. It's all post hoc. No one believes, they don't want to arrive at their
God belief from apologetics. No one goes like, Well, actually, you know, it's just trying to
rationalize away the parts that don't seem to work. Like, just what are the reasons you have for
belief? You know, like someone might say, Oh, I grew up a Christian. I feel this in this tremendous
feeling. I had these spiritual moments and things like that. Like, they're the reasons you believe.
If they're the reasons you believe, just tell it, say they're the reasons you believe.
The whole apologetics field, there's a place for it. There is a place for it. But
it just seems like the whole thing is post hoc. And you guess you said it with a lot of things,
but yeah, that's the problem I tend to have with a lot of these. Or like, you know, Joseph's father,
who's Joseph's father? And it's like, Well, they're using Mary's bloodline. It doesn't say
that doesn't say that we're using Mary's bloodline doesn't say they're using it. You know, so I mean,
you can make anything up to fit if you believe the conclusions are true.
You know, I guess maybe just to sort of say one small thing about that,
to drive it home. I have that chapter on violence and genocide in volume two. And
the way that I come at it, without giving like too much away, is basically the arguments that are
made from Christian apologists, particularly people like Paul Coppain, if you're familiar with him.
And I like Paul, he's a nice guy, like I've had discussions with him, but
obviously fundamentally disagree with him. But it's very common to say either the people that
were genocided, the people that were slaughtered, deserved it, right? And God was really, really
patient. Or it's hyperbole, right? And they not, it wasn't that they were all wiped out,
it's just like a lot of them were wiped out. I don't think that one is like,
okay, that's not much better. But those are the two arguments, right? It's hyperbole or
the people really deserved it. What I do in the chapter, as I say, awesome.
I'm going to give you some examples of neo- Assyrian kings that do the exact same goddamn thing.
Here are three neo- Assyrian kings that have royal inscriptions that you can go look at and go look
in the museum and sit there and look at them. And they say things like, Asher, my God,
commanded me to go and to destroy this people group, because he was very gracious and extended
his benevolent arm to them and they rebelled and they sinned and they were wicked. And so I had to
go destroy them, right? And then just ask the question, how are you feeling about that? You
cool with, you know, Tiglath Polizzer, the third kicking ass and taking names, you know, because
he's got Asher? No, no, of course not. Well, why? Right? It's hyperbole.
It's not the one true God. That's the reason why.
And now we're at special pleading.
Yeah. The fun special pleading. I did want to touch on slavery and morality of the Old
Testament. And I want to be careful of your time because I don't want to keep you till midnight
because I want to get through some slavery and morality stuff. And then we have, we have a lot
of questions from my discord, people who used it and what you had to say. But what I have done
is I've gone through your Twitter over the last week or so and it's full of interesting
conversations you've had with people. And before we start the slavery discussion, I want to read
out some people's responses to you just for the audience's sake. So first up, I might believe
this, I might not. Austin said the names. Austin said slavery allowed life allowed lives to be
spared. With God allowing slavery, lives were saved. And freedom was also possible. An argument
against is an argument in favor of murder. Someone said, do you see a problem with slavery and
beating them in a form of discipline? And then someone said, no, I don't see a problem. What's
your objection? And then you said easy. Andrew said slavery in the Old Testament was for the
benefit of both the slave earner and the slave. It's Michael responded by saying, Michael said,
actually, slavery in the Old Testament isn't what one thinks of the word slavery today. So-called
slaves had a lot of rights and are better described as some Hebrew word workers.
And my favorite by far is, and you could, you could, we could have the whole podcast just talking
at this person's tweet. The Sons of Light said atheists. They made a, like a atheist,
atheist, like a, so atheists, this is what atheists say. Slavery is wrong. Atheist also, abortion,
homosexuality, transgenderism, fornication, et cetera, are right. Wow. Like, and you said
easy block. It's amazing because like, because like, I know people like, I know people on both
sides of the, uh, yes, beliefs scale when it comes to abortion. Okay. Like, I understand that that
issue. Some people, it's an issue for a lot of people, but homosexuality, transgenderism,
and fornication are right. Well, they're not, for one, atheism is claiming that they're right.
But it is just, the whole thing is just amazing to listen to. Like, what do you
mean? Is this what you, you think slavery is the same as transgenderism? Like someone identifying
with who they feel they are or fornication? Like what? I don't know. There is a, uh,
a really good friend of mine, Jessica, who's, uh, you've probably seen her in those Twitter threads,
Queen of Heathens. Oh yeah, I did. Yeah. She's, she's an amazing person and she has this thing
that she says to these people or she says, there's two brain cells competing for third.
It's just, it's so perfect because that's what I thought when I saw that, you know? Yeah. All right,
guy. Like, yeah. Brain small. Brain small. It just seems everyone is coming off to you at the
moment in regards to slavery. Um, I wonder why that is because it's been a while since you
wrote the book. So is it, is it beyond this whole time or is it just recently? Um, yeah,
I don't remember what, what brought it up. I get tagged a fair amount. Um,
Scott, I can't remember Scott's last name, but he's, he goes by theoretical bullshit on, um,
on Twitter. Uh, super nice guy. Um, yeah. But you know, he, he'll tag me in periodically or
whatever it is like me. I don't know what it's called at me. Um, and say, you know, like,
is this right? Or what do you think about this? Um, and that usually will start something.
Um, or I'll put up a tweet, uh, you know, that, that, that says like, please,
you know, stop with the slavery apologetics or something like that.
And what people don't realize, and this is, this is why this is so insidious. Um,
it would be very clear to everyone if I were to say, and let me, let me say it this way.
We did a debate, Matt Dill, Hunter and I did a debate with Stuart and Cliff Connectley
on modern day debate, maybe a year ago, and it was on slavery.
And at one point there was just so much of this. It wasn't as bad, you know,
the people were really wicked and God was using this and then, you know, they were really poor
and it wasn't an ideal and blah, blah, blah. Um, and I remember at one point saying, listen,
if right now someone broke into a house, there was a family of, you know,
mother, father and three kids and, uh, killed the mother, killed the father,
and killed the two kids, but took like the 15 year old daughter.
Uh, and they set the house on fire and burned everybody inside of it, except for the 14 year
old daughter or 15 year old daughter and took her captive, took her into a basement,
changed her there, uh, you know, fed her terribly, but kept her as a prisoner over the next,
you know, 10, 15 years. Um, would you make the argument if somebody said that was a horrible
person? Would you make the argument? Well, I mean, like, they didn't let the 15 year old burn in the
house. I mean, like, it, it was a mercy. I mean, they could have just left her there,
but no, they, they, they took her out and look, they gave her food, gave her shelter,
right? I mean, nobody would do that. She would have been starving, she would have been on the
street. Yeah, she'd have been out on the street. What would have happened to her? They were providing
for her. No, I mean, everybody recognizes immediately, like, well, it's, you know,
like I'm uncomfortable having now told that story. Um, but the point is that we don't feel that same
way. Often Christian apologists don't feel that same way when they talk about things like slavery.
And so what they end up saying, like full chested, well, you know, when you bring up something like
Exodus 21, 20 to 21, if a man beats his male or female slave with a wooden rod and they die
immediately, and then they're to be punished, they're to be, probably to be killed. Um,
but if the slave survives a day or two, then they're not to be punished because
they're his property. And you will hear, I mean, nine times out of 10, I will hear, well,
wait a minute, like they had to be able to beat them. I mean, how else were you supposed to motivate
a slave? Once somebody says that, there's just this pause because that's what happened with one of
those tweets. The guy laid out what 20 to 21 means. And I said, yes, exactly. Then I hit a space that
I said, please tell me that you see the problem with this. Like, no, what problem? You know, it's,
it's the, the biggest problem besides the fact that it's unbelievably disgusting. Um,
is that that is the same. I write about this in that, that slavery chapter in the atheist
handbook to the Old Testament. Um, there is a very clear parallel between the legal rationale
that we saw in the antebellum South and what we see in the Hebrew Bible, because the same tension
is there in both places. The judges are having to balance this. What we have slaves, slaves are
legal. Having slaves is legal. And we don't want masters to abuse them. And we don't want them to
murder them, obviously, but they're slaves and they need to be motivated and corrected. And the master
has the right to do that. And the way that we do that is by beating them with moderate correction,
moderate physical correction. So how do we balance this? The master's right to beat and motivate his
slave within reason and keeping the slave from being abused and killed. And the way that they
developed this is, well, you're allowed to have moderate physical correction.
It's the same thing that you see in Exodus 21, right? If you beat a male or female slave so
severely that they die immediately, well, that's murder, that's abuse. There's, there's a severe
punishment for that. However, if they don't die immediately, and there's some debate about whether
that means they survive a day or two and then are able to get up, I tend to think the passage means
they survive a day or two and then die. But if there's intervening time between when the beating
took place and when the slave died or when the slave got back up, whatever, then the benefit
of the doubt is given to the master that he was just doing corporal punishment,
which he needs to be able to do according to the law. And what, what scares me so much about
slavery apologetics is when you're making those arguments about Exodus 21, you're making the
same fucking arguments about, that people made about in the Antebellum South. It's the same
argument. And we know what happened there. Like there's no place maybe that's, at least in my
day-to-day life, that this is the old adage of if you forget history or doom to repeat it,
right? And that's in these slavery discussions. It's just, that's why I take this so seriously.
Because you can't, once you, once you start down the path of this book gives me my morals,
then you end up having to defend really whatever it is that it says, whatever it
is that it recommends. And so you end up having to say things like, well, Deuteronomy 22, 28 to 29,
if a guy, you know, seizes and rapes an unbetrothed virgin, he's got to marry her. Why? I mean,
that makes sense, right? I mean, like, hey, at least she's getting cared for for the rest of her
life. You're like, whoa, whoa, come on, man. Like, it's, it's just so problematic. There's a last
thing I'll say. There's a phenomenal book that was written by Professor John Collins up at Yale.
Who is just a hell of a nice guy and a brilliant Old Testament scholar. And the title of the book
is What Are Biblical Values? And it's an easy read. It's 2019, 2020 publication. I think it's 19.
I'll link it in the description. It's phenomenal, worth every penny. And it's, again, it's an easy
read. It's not like it's going to really, you know, you're not going to, people don't struggle through
it. But he basically goes through what are biblical values, whatever that might mean.
What does the Bible say about things like abortion, rape, slavery, homosexuality,
those sorts of things. I think he touched on homosexuality. I can't remember. But
he's talking about these major social issues and saying, what is the Bible's position on these
things? And what will be surprising, I think, to many is that it's really bad by our modern moral
standards. And I think we need to just engage with that and say, look, that's the ancient world.
Whether we see the text as inspired or not, however we make that work, we can't say we're
going to get our morals from this book that says that a rapist marries his victim if she's
unbetrothed and can't divorce her all the days of her life without, like, the text has no consideration
toward her feelings toward the matter at all. And it's such a dangerous precedent to set.
It truly is. And it sounds like a very interesting book, too, because I made a video,
you probably didn't hear about this over in the States, but a school that I used to,
actually the principal of the school, he used to be in a ministry position and he signed my
ministry certificate for my SO4. He amended the student contract and this is a Christian
high school to say that they won't be honoring transgender pronouns and they won't accept
homosexuals or bisexuals, like these things really start. And I made this video that kind of blew
up a little bit and I was like, look, I was like, that's fine. All right, well, it's not fine. But
like, don't call it biblical morals, because I'm sure you're not also teaching that it's okay to
own other humans' property. I'm sure you're not teaching that it's a sin to be divorced. I'm
sure you're not teaching that. I hope you're checking that your faculty, no one in your
faculty has been divorced before. I hope you're checking that your faculty, no one, everyone
believes in Yahweh and doesn't worship any other God. I hope no one has a little Buddha statue
around their house, because these are all sins, right? I was like, you're not teaching
biblical morality. You're teaching your own morality from parts of the Bible you've just
that's exactly right. And that's the same thing with I've had I've had two
guests on this podcast. One of them was a good friend of mine who I met in ministry college,
one of my best friends. He was closeted for 45 years because of that. And so he told his story
about I call it surviving gay conversion therapy because he tried to pray the gay away for a long
time. And he became suicidal in the end. And then the other guest I had on she Hayley Brooke,
she's a musician and a TikTok sensation. And same thing, she lost her entire family. She lost
all her family except their sister and her uncle, when she came out as a lesbian. And they all
point to the Bible and the immorality and stuff. But it's like, you don't you're not these be
consistent. Like, I would still have an issue if you were to be bigoted, but at least be consistently
bigoted. Yeah, that's right. You know what I mean? So it's like, it's so frustrating to see
to see this this this kind of thing happening. And the apology and the worst thing too is
it seems the two things to just touch on it seems like people they'll always point the finger
that these people will point the finger at atheists and say, where do you get your morals from?
And then and then they'll argue that the slavery in the Bible isn't actually slavery. It's like,
where are you getting that from? Yeah, like if you're to if you get the your morality from the
Bible, slavery is a okay, it appears, right? But you're saying no, didn't mean that. Well,
you're obviously appealing to some other moral code you have inside you some some deeper feeling
some subjective feeling. You get them from the same place I do, except you just overextend yourself
to the Bible or whatever. Yeah. And then, yeah, it's just and one of the to one of your posts
actually, I replied, I replied, someone said, you know, the slavery was allowed to spare lives,
God was allowing slavery, the arguments against it is an argument on murder. I just replied and said,
how come we can come up with a better system today than an omniscient creator of the university
come out with? Yeah, this doesn't seem yeah. I mean, stop teasing God, you're making God out
to be really stupid. Yes, yeah, teasing God. You're coming up with these crazy ideas about God
and it's not okay, bro. Yeah. So yeah, I agree. Well, just just to touch on for those who don't
know, does the Bible talk about slavery? Does the Old Testament talk about slavery and what
type of slavery is that in the Old Testament? Yeah, so there are there are three. But usually,
I just I just talk about the two. There's that slavery, there's shadow slavery and there's sex
slavery. Debt slavery is simply slavery that is contingent upon a debt, the repayment of a debt.
And so, you know, the way that that pans out in the Hebrew Bible is that if and you can read
about this in Exodus 21 and in Deuteronomy 15, if someone goes into debt and they can't repay it,
they become a debt slave, which means that, you know, people want to argue that it's, you know,
something like a sports contract or something, but you can't you can't leave, right? I mean,
like you can't wake up two weeks in and be like, Ah, you know what, I'm actually,
this isn't really for me. I'm going to do something else here. We'll go work at McDonald's.
It was just spicy employment. That's all it was. Right. You know, they're they're kept.
Um, they can be beaten. They're, they're admonished to be beaten or masters are admonished to beat
their slaves. Um, and, uh, after serving for six years, that, uh, you know, fulfills all of the,
you know, debt repayment requirements and their turn, their turn loose. Um, there are differences
between Exodus 21 and Deuteronomy 15. I don't have to get into those, but that's the general
layout for debt slavery. Um, chattel slavery is simply slavery that is not contingent upon
the repayment of a debt. So for example, in Leviticus 25, 44 to 46, uh, a foreigner can be taken,
uh, be they a foreigner from around living in the nations around, or if they're, you know,
like a tenant farmer living in the midst of the people, uh, if they're taken as a slave,
they're taken as a chattel slave. There is no, uh, you know, like time of service and then
they're set free. They can be kept for life. The text is very clear. They can be passed on as
inheritance, um, and made to serve forever. So chattel slavery is just that it's, you know,
it's, it's slavery that's not contingent upon the repayment of the debt. Uh, you can also see this
with Israelites. If you read Exodus 21, uh, two to six, uh, it'll talk about if a debt slave
comes in during his six year term of service and is given a wife and that wife bears children,
the wife and the children are the property of the master. Uh, that, that, that children is called,
that, that, that children, those children are called houseborn, uh, children and they're,
they're chattel slaves, right? There is no debt that, uh, their slavery is contingent upon. They're
just born to a slave in the house. And so they're, they're, they're chattel slaves. That doesn't
mean that they could never be freed. It's just that there's no requirement of the master to
free them. Um, and so those are the two types, you know, that there is sex slavery, uh, again,
I don't, I tend to not go into it as much, um, but you can see it in like Exodus 21, 7 through 11.
And in Deuteronomy 21. With these, um, I'm slipping back into my fundamentalist mode again.
I'm trying to think of like how some of my family would answer, uh, ask the, ask questions,
what questions they would ask. Um, would they, like one question is, um, were these instructions
from God, or were these possibly just man-made instructions? Yeah. I mean, it depends on how
you're asking the question, right? If you're, if you're asking it from a fundamentalist framework
and you're saying, I believe that the Bible is the inspired God breathed word, uh, or, you know,
word of God, then, uh, no, these are absolutely from Yahweh, right? I mean, the text is explicit
about it. If you read, for example, the beginning of Leviticus 25, as I say under the children of
Israel, these words, right? I mean, it's, it's, it's coming from Yahweh explicitly. Uh, if you're
asking me outside of a fundamentalist framework, I'm saying, no, these are, is a human book, right?
This is, is there, uh, priests and scribes that are, that are doing their thing, right? Um,
so, yeah, I mean, there's, there's not a lot of wiggle room. There are people that try to make
such arguments. Um, but you have to fundamentally alter what inspiration means. Um, which, yeah,
I'm fine with that. Let me say this. I would much prefer somebody alter their idea of inspiration
so that they don't argue that slavery is okay. Let's do that. Let's do that, everybody. Yeah.
Um, your goal is, uh, is, is less, um, less slavery apologetics.
Yes, please.
Less genocide and slavery apologetics, please. Yeah.
Please. I'm interested, I'm interested in how you would have responded to the slavery claims as
a fundamentalist Christian versus now.
You know, I don't know that, um, I don't know that I was ever confronted with them. I was what's
called a dispensationalist, if you're familiar with that term. Um, and basically there's a, a huge
emphasis on the distinction between the old covenant, the Old Testament and the New Testament.
Yeah. The law kills, right? Those passages in, in Paul's epistles, um, in places like Romans and
Galatians and, um, you know, those things are really emphasized. Like that's, that's the old
covenant, right? That's for Israel. Um, but I don't know that I was ever really pressed on the
specifics there. Had I been pressed, I would imagine that my response would have been, look,
God has morally sufficient reasons and his ways are higher than ours. Isaiah 55. Come on, like,
come on, don't you, don't you know? Uh, God, we can't, we can't, we can't get to God's level.
So while we might not understand it, um, God's got a reason and the same thing would be true for
why he sent a worldwide flood to kill, uh, everybody, including innocent children. Um,
well, maybe they weren't innocent somehow, right? God had a plan. Like this is, these are the sort
of trait responses I got invited into this Christian discord server. And, um, I asked her
about, about these, these questions and she said, well, maybe the babies had Nephilim,
maybe the infants that were to be slaughtered were Nephilim. Okay. Maybe. Oh, maybe. I don't
know. Um, yeah, it's, there's always a way around it. Um, just to, uh, let's move on to the Q and A
because there's lots of questions. Um, and, uh, we could keep talking for ages because it's so
interesting and, um, and I've just been sitting back and enjoying, enjoying this lovely bourbon
and, um, and, uh, listening to, to you talk. Um, the first question I wanted to ask though, um,
is, so this came from someone on discord, on my discord server. Uh, what do you think about the
scriptures that require the death penalty for specific sins? So, and versus, uh, and I think
what he was getting at was, um, so like, you know, the homosexual sex, violating the Sabbath,
cursing one's parents, you know, require the death penalty. How do we interpret those scriptures?
Like do, how did you view them as a fundamentalist and how do you view them kind of now? Are they
actually calls to the death, like the stoning of someone for breaking the Sabbath?
I say, so, so much, you know, I mean, if you, if you think about where, um, so many of these
regulations are, these laws are, they're in sections of holiness, right? So if you think
about the holiness code and Leviticus, um, so much of, and again, this is not like my area of
expertise, uh, Joel Baden is a phenomenal scholar to talk to about this. Um, but when you, when you
think about the, uh, the holiness of the sanctuary or the holiness of Israel as a people,
any type of defilement that comes in, this is how it's met. So like think back to Joshua chapter seven,
you know, um, uh, Israel has gone and conquered Jericho and, uh, they've taken,
Akin has gone in, uh, and he's taken some of the gold and the silver and some garments and stuff,
and that was all supposed to be, you know, dedicated to destruction. Um, and instead he
took so many hidden under his tent. Well, the, the result was once that was found out,
there's impurity, right? He's essentially contaminated the camp. So he's killed, he's
killed his whole, excuse this whole family's killed animals, everything, anything that was in his household.
Uh, if you think about in, uh, in First Samuel when, um, the ark is being brought back
and, uh, I think it's in First Samuel. I always get the First and Samuel, First and Second Samuel
conflated, but, uh, you know, the ark is being moved and, uh, a man reaches up who's carrying it
to steady the ark cause it started and he's struck down debt, right? There's this separation,
there's this purity, there's this holiness, um, that is often simply met with death, right? It's,
it's, it's like a way of purifying. Um, and not, not that that's the only, you know, reason I haven't
thought through, uh, that at any length, but, um, so much of this is about holiness and
sanctification and separation. Um, so there's sin in the camp, right? There's sin in the camp,
it's a phrase that you, you know, comes up and, uh, so it has to be eradicated. So how do you,
how do you do that? Um, often it's through death. Okay. Wow. Um, what's, uh, this one is actually
from a, um, Christian who has Samarian heritage, uh, and is, uh, I met on a megal when I was doing
some street epistemology stuff. Um, and he's jumped on the discord server as well and he's, um,
sent, he sent so many questions through actually, and this is, um, the one he really wanted me to
ask. What is your honest opinion of the theory of Assyrian continuity? Do you think it's entirely
true? Uh, I don't know exactly what he means by that. Is it that like modern day Assyrians are
ethnically connected? I think so. I was hoping you'd know what he was talking about. I, if that's
what he means, because there are Assyrians today, obviously that would claim heritage back to,
um, you know, like ancient, ancient Assyrians. Um,
I'm not, uh, like a geneticist. So I, I don't, I don't know that side of it. I don't have any,
have any opinion on that. What I will say though is that even if there's not a genetic connection
between two people groups separated by time, that doesn't mean that they can't be their heritage.
Right? That, that there, there can't be cultural continuity between them. Um, and I think we,
we've got to be very careful and sensitive to, to, to cultures around the world that, um,
you know, just because somebody, um, or when someone, you know, is, is, is, uh, saying that
their heritage goes back to X, Y, or Z, that, you know, that doesn't mean, and this is just me
sort of speaking extemporaneously here. I haven't like thought this through in any depth. Actually,
Megan would be a great person to ask this. My wife is also a seriologist. Um,
but I don't think that just because there's not a definitive genetic connection doesn't mean that
they can't, uh, be part of that ethnic group. And I certainly, that's certainly they can, right?
There are lots of people that don't have genetic connections that are part of an ethnic group
because ethnicity isn't directly connected to genetics. Um, so like, I think, I think we've
got to be really careful, uh, when we, um, when we consider that, that it's not all about genetics.
Yeah. I, um, yeah, yeah, true. I think, um, you, you'd be interested, um, I think you'd
be interested to find, um, know this. I actually talked to another person on, uh, Amigo who informed
me that, um, that genetics actually do matter. Uh, and the Bible is actually written about
only white people. Um, and it's a book for white people. Um, and the Jews have controlled everything
and corrupted everything in the world. So also the earth's flat. So just so you can leave it
up. Sorry. I'm just, I'm trying to get this down. So the Bible is about white people, white people.
Yeah. I don't know what white is in regards to genetics, but thank you.
It was amazing. Uh, we're doing a video tomorrow actually, a review of that video because it was
Oh, good. You know, with true, with true epistemology, I have to kind of sit down and go, okay, all right.
Interesting. So if someone could explain to you that the Bible wasn't about white people,
you know, like it's, yeah, it was amazing. Um, America. America. Yeah, exactly. Um,
so I'm going to throw some names at you and I was wondering if you could give me a history,
like how historical they are and I was hoping, um, if you can give me like a percentage. So I don't
know if like 0% is the completely mythological, 100% is the 100% historical and like 50% maybe
they're like legendary somewhere in the middle. Like some things about the ministry. Okay. King David.
Yeah. Um, is the question just so that I'm clear is the, if I say
100%, does that mean what's in the biblical texts and who he was in history match up?
And if I say 50%, it's like, yeah, he was a real guy and probably a lot of these stories are close,
but they've been spun heavily. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. David's, I'd say 50% then because, and I can explain
that. Um, Joel Baden wrote a book on the historical David and there's a lot of spin,
a whole hell of a lot of spin going on in 1st and 2nd Samuel.
Like you'll, you'll see David who, uh, it's weird. Like he,
he'll start off and he, he, he approaches like there's a story about Naval. Um, who is this
like awful guy who was really, really rich and has a beautiful wife.
And at the beginning of the story, he sends these, you know, 10 men, young men to go tell them of
all, Hey, you know what? All your shepherds that have been out in the fields, we've been protecting
them. Sure. You didn't ask us to, but we've been, no harm has come to them while they've been under
our protection. Please give us food and money and, you know, uh, sustain us, you know, so that I
could take a gift back to my master, David. And when he very stingily says, no, I won't, suddenly,
suddenly the ball is dead and David is married to his wife and he's got all his shit. Like what?
But the text is very clear. David was nowhere near that scene. He didn't have anything. It was God
that did it. I love the way that you phrase these things. Cause you've got this like academic
scholarship and then you say like, David took all his shit. You know, it's so good. So, um, Moses.
Yeah. I, maybe 10%. I mean, like, was there a guy, was there a guy named Moses? Maybe. I mean, but
Oh, here we go. That's your next, that's the next amount of your next Twitter. Um,
yeah. Yeah. Hey, you know what? I've got a chapter on the historicity of the Exodus in this, in volume
two. And, uh, I'm going to do probably a bunch of interviews about the book and talk about it.
So I'm sure that I will be catching tons of heat. Again, remember everybody. I'm giving consensus
positions on these things. They're not, this isn't like my novel idea. Yeah. Yeah. Well,
when that comes around, I'd love to interview you just on the Exodus because that's a huge
topic. Um, uh, Abraham. Yeah. I mean, was the 1% like was there a guy named Abraham? Maybe.
But I mean, like none of the stories reflect, uh, you know, reality. Okay. Wow.
That's very interesting to me. And, um, that's obviously going to be some news for three major
religions. Uh, what's, uh, how historical is the Exodus? And we can obviously go into this in
another date, but if you had to give a percentage or it depends on what you mean as it always does,
right? It was there an event or a, you know, a number of events where you had Canaanites who
were enslaved in Egypt that made their way out of Egypt, uh, over, you know, hundreds of years,
several different examples of that. Sure. Yeah. I'd say a hundred, probably a hundred percent.
In fact, almost certainly a hundred percent. Um, you know, are there three million people
walking out of Egypt, wandering in the water in this for 40 years, and they're coming into Canaan
and conquering it zero, right? Like, no, not that. Um, not that. Okay. Um, I don't know. Well,
that was interesting. So the next question is one that you, um, that is from, uh, Jacob, the
discord, uh, user again. I don't know. He said that you might not want to answer this question.
So if that's the case and we can cut it out, I don't understand the, um, the nuances of it,
obviously. Um, is the, but he said it might be a bit too political. Is the claimed Kurdish
nativity of the upper Mesopotamian slash Anatolian mountains true? Or is the Kurdish history much
more nomadic? I, I don't have any information on it, unfortunately. Okay, cool. Sorry.
Just, just so we know too, um, just so you know, um, this Jacob, he's like a teenager,
like he's, and he's so switched on and so willing to have conversations. He's a Christian and he's
so willing to have conversations with, um, to, with atheists and other people just trying to
work things out. He's really, I really like him. He's a really cool dude. I mean, everybody should
also, everybody should know that I am hyper cautious about saying, uh, like about being clear
that I don't know something and not, um, speaking to it if I don't know it. Uh, so yeah, I'm, I'm
because I think that maybe in the position that I'm in here online, I just don't want to,
I don't want to say, I don't want to get out of my lane. Yeah, exactly. So yeah,
where me, I get it on my lane all the time and I love it. Um,
I think if I got a bit more academic, I'd have to stay in my lane, but it's fun to chat with people
about stuff. Um, uh, why do you think the Babylonians portrayed more anti antagonistic than the Assyrians?
Yeah, I mean, I think, um, well, I mean, it depends on, it depends on what part of the biblical text
you're talking about, because the Assyrians are also depicted pretty terribly. Um, so if you think
about the timeline, uh, you know, and again, Pentateuchal studies is, is like not my area of
specialization. There are people that dedicate their entire careers to it. Um, so, so, you know,
trying to determine things like when did the Deuteronomystic history or historian write,
like when did those books come together? It's, it's, it's a whole subfield, but the times that
the biblical books are coming together or during the new Assyrian and the new Babylonian period,
and maybe, you know, certainly into the Persian period, I would think to some degree. Um, so you'll
see, uh, particularly the, the Assyrians and the Babylonians being, uh, portrayed in a very
negative light. And of course, the Babylonians are the ones that take Israel into cap, take Judah
into captivity, right? So, uh, you know, in 586, you know, the, the, the temples destroyed and
they're taken into captivity down to like 5539. Um, so of course, you know, the people that are
putting the biblical texts together, editing the biblical texts together are from the south, and
they're the ones that are being taken captive into Babylon or into Babylonian captivity. And so,
uh, yeah, I mean, I think naturally a lot of the animosity is going to be directed toward
their captors. So, okay. Um, do you, I got two more questions. Do you think the 12 tribes were
actually lost because of their enslavement by the Assyrians or can it possibly be linked to
certain Jewish communities within their written down locations of enslavement?
Again, this is sort of a, a subsection of research in the field. I think that probably,
just from my very limited research into this, I take everything that I say right now, the grain
of salt. Um, you know, I, I think that the 12 tribe, um, you know, ideas is probably not as solid
as we might want to think. Um, but again, that's probably more than I'd, I'd want to say about
it. Um, because you have, you know, two significant, uh, catastrophic events that take place in, uh,
northern Israel, one in northern Israel, one in southern, and in 722, you know, Samaria is
destroyed in the north is taken. And then, uh, in 586, you know, the temple is destroyed in,
in Jerusalem, in Jude, you know, the south is taken captive. So, um,
you know, what happens to the distinct tribes? I, I'm not sure. I'm not sure.
Okay. I actually lied. We have two more questions, um, but they're fun questions. Um,
so a common talking point among believers is that we needed the laws to know what good or
evil were. Um, so for example, as just an aside on the question, for example, I had
someone tell me on Twitter that I wouldn't know that rape was wrong unless God told me that rape
was wrong. Um, and so my question is, do we have, and this is my question, do we have moral laws
before the events of the Old Testament? And if so, how do apologists get around this?
Um,
I'm interested to know, uh, maybe the definition of moral laws.
So, um, like instructions on how to live maybe. Okay. Yeah, absolutely. Right. I mean, um, if we're
talking about things like don't rape, I mean, you've got that back into the third millennium.
Um, what to do if somebody rapes somebody. The problem that I would say in response to
that is, uh, well, then you don't know slavery is wrong.
Wow. Because you don't. Yeah. Um, yeah. So, like, is there, is there any way in the old or New
Testament, I know New Testament isn't your expertise, but is it anywhere that, um, that
condemn slavery? No. And so in the, in the atheist handbook, um, I, I wanted to have a chapter for,
you know, the sake of completion. Um, I wanted to have a chapter on slavery in one of the three
volumes, but I didn't want it to be just a repetition of, you know, a shortened repetition
of the book. So I added a couple of things to it. I did a bunch of research and I wrote a section
on the New Testament and early Christianity. And then I wrote one on, uh, or a section of the
chapter on, um, the laws of the antebellum South and nothing compares. So there's actually a lot
more in that chapter that is not in the book. Um, but one of the things that I deal with are these
arguments from like these major passages in the New Testament, because most apologists will say,
well, sure, the Old Testament doesn't condemn slavery. And what they do to get around that
is they appeal to like Matthew 19, right? Where Jesus is saying, well, you have heard it said that
you, you know, you can write a bill of divorcement for your wife, but in the beginning it wasn't
so. And Moses gave you this law because of the hardness there. And they just extrapolate that
and say, well, that must apply to slavery as well. And it's like, does it though? Um, is it, is this
thing on? Uh, so, um, they'll also go to passages like Galatians three 28, right? Neither male nor
female, uh, a junior Greek slave nor free. And I'll say, look, see, there's neither slave nor free
in Christ. Therefore he's all equal, right? Well, that's not what that verse is saying. Um, they'll
go to 1st Timothy 1, 10, where it talks about, um, you know, people that are participating in the
slave trade are, you know, equal to like murderers, but that's not the flex that they think it is,
right? Um, they appeal to the book of Philemon. Philemon always asking Philemon to set an
SMS to slave free. Well, again, it's not the flex you think it is. Um, so I deal with those things.
So no, I mean, Jesus in Luke 17, it tells his disciples, which one of you having a slave
serving in the field all day when he comes in at dinner time would say to him here, sit and eat.
No, of course you wouldn't say that. You'd say get in the kitchen and, you know, make me dinner and
then get dressed and serve me and wait on me while I eat. And then only after that can you eat, right?
It's an accepted part of the system. And it's one that Jesus certainly isn't condemning. He's
assuming that the disciples would do it as well. So yeah, I mean, I think that's the, that's the
response for me anyway. Yeah, the Bible seems to make a lot more sense when you don't, you don't
believe that it come from God. If you just see it as like people's ideas trying to work out the
universe, it makes a lot of sense. That's right. Yeah. Um, last question, uh, and thank you so much
for, I know we've been chatting for a long time. Um, I think so much for coming onto the podcast.
The last question is, um, regarding your lack of belief in God, what would convince you of the
existence of the Christian God now? Like what evidence would you need to see?
You know, I've thought about that. Um, and I'm afraid that my answer is going to be a disappointing one
because I'm, I'm not entirely sure. Um, what I would like to think is that if right now
Jesus materialized in front of me, um,
and, you know, being God would know what would convince me that he actually is Jesus, um,
you know, then, then that would be, uh, I mean, I suspect that would be sufficient or if I were,
you know, if I died and got to heaven and he's standing there going,
sucks to be you buddy boy, right? You know, uh, you know, I would think that even
got in that. Yeah. Yeah. I would think I would believe at that moment. Um,
but yeah, I like I, because I thought, well, what if that happened? Well, then I might think to
myself, Oh God, this could be some sort of, maybe I'm incredibly tired and I'm hallucinating or,
you know, um, but I, but I don't think that I don't think that would naturally necessarily like
hinder me from believing. Uh, maybe if I'm hyper critical, I would say, well, maybe I can't know
for certain that that was the case, but, um, I think it would have to be something appealing to
my senses much more directly. Cool. Wow. Well, thank you so much for coming on, uh, the Deep Rings
podcast. Dr. Josh, um, everyone needs to go and grab this book. Did the oldest? Oh, it's, uh,
not focusing very well. No, the Old Testament or slavery. Fantastic read. It's super. Thank you.
The audio books are really good as well, but I would also encourage people to check out your
other book, um, volume one of the atheist, um, guide to the Old Testament. Um, and like, I just
also want to say, I want to say thank you to you because when my, uh, channel was under 100
subscribers, like I was, I was nothing. I mean, I don't have any subscribers at the moment, but
you helped me out in the video. Like you, I said, Hey, I need, I need you to check this for me. It
was in the New Testament as well. So it wasn't even your expertise and I reached out to you on
Twitter and you helped, you watched it and you helped me and you made me maybe confident in
releasing it. It took me like three months to work on. So I want to say thank you. Um, and then
later I saw your, um, Megan, um, Megan or Megan, it's Megan, Megan. Okay. I saw her, um, post on
Twitter or something about you. And I was like, this man will always be my good graces. He helped
me for, for even though, you know, his academic powerhouse and he helped little old me with my,
so I do seriously appreciate it. Uh, I don't think anybody's ever, ever referred to me as an
academic powerhouse. That was very generous academic. I know I had to cut out a lot of your
like stuff at the, the intro. Like I had to just mention your PhD, but there is a whole
lot of bunch of stuff and you can check it out in the Amazon review page, but thanks for coming
in the deep drinks podcast and thank you for introducing me to just delicious bourbon. I'm
normally a Scotch man, but this is awesome. Uh, and thanks heaps.
