Does the Bible condone slavery?
And if so, what kind of slavery was it?
Did God command its use?
How are these verses being used
and misused throughout history?
Guys, this is a panel that you don't wanna miss.
This is going to be the go-to resource.
We have got an incredible panel
full of amazing Bible scholars ready to tackle
this ever so important question.
So thank you for coming out.
This is it.
Let's go.
The Bible Conditioning
So you may have noticed
that I'm using a bit of a different camera setup
at the moment.
That's because last night,
my $5,000 camera kit fell over.
So I apologize that I'm using my MacBook Pro here,
but hopefully we can get to it.
I'm not the star of the show anyway,
so it doesn't really matter.
So world over, Muslims have been convinced
that Muhammad's marriage to Aisha, a six-year-old girl,
either didn't happen as it was written in the Hadiths,
or that it was morally permissible in this instance.
Some describing Muhammad's decision
to hold off consecration of the marriage
until Aisha reached the age of nine
to be of moral virtue.
World over, many Hindus have relaxed
the teaching of the caste system,
reimagining verses in the Bhagavad Gita
and the Vedas to be symbolic and not prescriptive,
much to be encouraged by those born
into the life of an untouchable.
Now, world over, Christians flock to pastors,
apologists and theologians alike
to help them justify the passages of their holy text.
To answer the question on this panel,
does the Bible condone slavery?
Yes, yes, it very much does.
But what kind of slavery was it?
Did God command its use?
How have these verses been used
and misused throughout history?
To answer these questions,
we have five Bible scholars
with a diverse range of expertise.
We will first explore slavery within the Hebrew Bible,
what it was and what it was its historical context.
We will then look at slavery in Second Temple Judaism
and early Christianity's response.
At this time, we will have a short intermission
for about less than five minutes
so everyone can have a toilet break.
And then we will address the apologetics found
in the works of Jordan Peterson, Frank Turek,
William Lane Craig, GotQuestions.com,
Mike Winger, John McCrae, Alan Parr,
Paul Copen, Douglas Wilson,
Doug Wilson, sorry, capturing Christianity,
Jay Warner Wallace, answers in Genesis
and the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary.
We will then discuss modern consequences
and how slavery was abolished before ending
with an extended question and answers section.
There is a downloadable PDF along with this panel
that has 29 pages of catalog slavery apologetics
and recommended reading lists from our panelists.
So I'll just share that now.
We have, it's all categorized
and I wanna thank Tib from the Discord server
who put in so much work helping me get this organized.
You can see the recommended reading lists
from each one of our panelists
and then you can see all of the apologist arguments
that are categorized into different sections
and then what you'll commonly hear from these categories
and then we have quotes with links to the exact videos
and then if they delete those videos,
we then have a bibliography down the bottom
with timestamps of when we got that information.
So this is going to be a really handy resource for anyone.
And what's funny is we even ran this through some AI
to make sure the AI couldn't come up
with any more slavery apologetics
and every one of these arguments came up.
So we did a good job.
So that said, I want to welcome our first panelist.
So, excuse me.
Dr. Daniel McClellan worked as a scripture translator
supervisor for the Church of Jesus Christ of Leladay Saints
from 2013 to 2023.
Occasionally teaches courses at Brigham Young University
and is the author of Yahweh's Divine Images,
a Cognitive Approach.
Dan has a BA in Ancient Near Eastern Studies
with a minor in Classical Greek,
a Master's of Theology in Jewish Studies
from University of Oxford,
a Master's of Arts in Biblical Studies
from Trinity Western University
and a PhD in Religion and Religious Studies.
Welcome, Dan.
Thank you so much for having me.
I appreciate the invitation.
I'm looking forward to the discussion today.
Awesome.
Dr. Jennifer Bird is our next panelist
who has a PhD in New Testament and Early Christianity.
Jennifer's favorite subjects are marriage, sexuality
and the role of women in Christianity.
Her latest book is Permission Granted.
Take the Bible into your own hands
and I have to say it's amazing.
And it has masked many, much praise online.
Look out for her next book coming this year.
Jennifer has a Bachelor of Science in Mathematics
and with an education minor from Virginia Tech,
a Master's of Divinity from Princeton Theological Seminary
and a PhD in New Testament and Early Christianity
from Vanderbilt University.
Welcome.
Thank you, David.
It's really an honor to be here.
Thank you.
Everyone's gonna say the same thing, aren't they?
Yeah, yeah.
Thank you, David.
It's a little awkward, but hey, we gotta get through it.
Dr. Joshua Bowen,
graduated from John Hopkins University in 2017
with a PhD in Cereology.
Joshua is an expert in the Hebrew Bible,
translating the original Hebrew into English
for the use in his many books.
Including his latest,
The Atheist Handbook to the Old Testament, Vol. 2.
Josh has a BS in Religion, Bachelor of Science in Religion,
a Master's of Theology in Old Testament
from Capital Bible Seminary,
a Master's of Arts in Near Eastern Studies
from John Hopkins University
and a PhD in Cereology from John Hopkins University.
Welcome, Dr. Josh.
Yeah, I'm not really all that excited to be here.
Yeah, I'm happy to be here.
Yeah.
Dr. Kip Davis specializes in Second Temple Judaism
and the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Kip was mentored by Dr. Peter Finnt
and was in the group
that first publicized fordries within the scrolls.
Kip was featured on the PBS Nova Documentary
Dead Sea Scrolls Detectives.
And his latest book is The War Scroll,
Violence, War and Peace in the Dead Sea Scrolls
and Related Literature.
An academic title if I have never seen one myself.
Kip has a BA in Biblical Studies and Languages
from Trinity Western University,
a Master's in Biblical Studies from Trinity Western University,
a PhD in Religion and Theology
from the University of Manchester.
Welcome, Dr. Kip Davis.
Thanks, David.
It's nice to be back after sobering up a little bit.
Yes, the last time the Kip was on,
we had much too much rye
and talked about metal bands for longer
than I think the audience was happy about.
Our last panelist is Dr. Matthew Philip Munger,
who's an Associate Professor of Near Eastern Languages
and Literature at Norwegian School of Theology.
Matthew's main research interests are the languages
and texts of ancient Near East,
including Akkadian, Hebrew, Syriac,
Slash Aromaic, Ethiopic and Arabic,
and the intersections of these faiths in these languages.
Matthew is also the Program Director
for MF's Bachelor Degree in Theology, Religion and Society.
Matt has a Bachelor of Theology
from the MF Norwegian School of Theology,
a Master's of Theology
from the MF Norwegian School of Theology,
a BA in Linguistics from the University of Oslo,
and an MA in Semetic Philology
from the University of Oslo.
I hope I said that right.
This is why I'm not a PhD,
and a PhD in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
When I read out everyone's credentials
to my roommate, he got angry at how educated
all of you guys are.
He thought it was ridiculous.
So with that said, welcome, Dr. Matthew Monger.
Thanks.
I second the thank yous that everyone else has given.
Okay.
Except for me.
Except for like, she's an angry, poor guy.
Well, guys, thank you so much for coming on
and putting so much work into this panel.
It's been really awesome to come together
and create the go-to stream for the combat slavery
apologetics that we see rampant everywhere at the moment.
If before we get started into some education,
I would like to ask, what are we all drinking today?
Which way are we going here?
Are we starting?
What's this?
Just yell out when you feel coffee.
I got a Coke.
Nice, nice.
Sweet.
Has anyone got any slavery inspired?
So I went through a slavery inspired drink.
So this is a Norwegian sparkling lemonade
that's called the colonial garden.
This is like in Norwegian colonial,
I guess has another meaning,
but it also has the connotation of being colonialism
or whatever, but it means like a common garden
or something like that.
It also means like a shop where you can go buy stuff.
So basically I'm just drinking a colonial drink
for you guys.
It's alcohol-free because I have to drive home, so.
Oh, thank you.
Amen.
So let's start the presentation with Dr. Josh.
You're gonna kick us off.
We're going to learn about slavery
in the Hebrew Bible and the ancient Near East.
So let me add your slide.
And I wanna say while that's coming up,
a big shout out to Heath and Queen.
Some of it's very close to all of us here
who just got accepted both into Brandeis
and into Chicago for a Master's degree.
So, yes.
Big future.
Good on you, Heath and Queen.
Okay.
So I'm gonna be talking about very quickly,
four minutes and 18 seconds last time I checked.
Hold me to it, everyone.
Slavery in the Hebrew Bible.
Did the Old Testament condone or endorse slavery?
Although this issue is constantly debated online,
it has been a settled issue in academia for quite a while.
In this short presentation,
I would like to provide a brief introduction
to slavery in the Hebrew Bible,
including the definition and types of slavery
seen in the Old Testament,
passages that concern the topic,
and the broader ancient Near Eastern context of slavery.
I define slavery in the context of this panel discussion
as, quote, a condition in which an individual,
including rights to their physical capacities,
both physical and often sexual,
is owned by another, either temporarily or permanently.
The owner controls and benefits from the actions
and activities of the owned individual.
There are three main types of slavery
found in the Old Testament,
debt, chattel, and sexual.
Debt slavery was generally temporary in nature,
contingent upon the enslaved individual,
or the one responsible for selling themselves
into debt slavery,
or sorry, for selling them into debt slavery,
repaying the debt.
In some cases, debt slavery could convert to chattel slavery.
Chattel slavery is simply slavery
that is not contingent upon the repayment of a debt
and is therefore generally permanent in nature.
Finally, sexual slavery, as we would define it today,
can be seen in several places in the biblical texts.
The Cambridge Dictionary defines it as, quote,
a person who is forced to perform sexual acts
and who is not free to leave the place
where they are being kept
or to stop the work that they are being forced to do.
There are standard passages in the Old Testament
that come up in these discussions.
Exodus 21, the earliest set of laws,
deals with issues generally related
to Israelite debt slaves.
The text sets out different regulations
for male and female slaves
and attempts to mitigate the abuse
and murder that could be committed by the master.
Deuteronomy 15, later either restates or develops
many of the laws seen in Exodus 21,
and Leviticus 25 stipulates that Israelites
are no longer able to be kept as slaves.
However, it clearly defines the rules
for procuring chattel slaves from foreigners
living around and among the Israelites.
Other more secondary passages should be noted.
Deuteronomy 20 gives the rules for warfare
and includes procedures for generating corvée labor
and taking women and children as plunder.
Deuteronomy 21 lays out the procedure
for taking a captive woman as a bride.
Deuteronomy 23, 15 to 16 explains what to do
when a slave runs away.
Although this passage, as we will discuss later,
is very often misunderstood
to apply to all runaway slaves.
Finally, although not a legal section on slavery,
Numbers 31 tells the story of virgin girls
being taken and divided up as plunder.
Is there a broader ancient Near Eastern context
that informs our understanding
of slavery in the Old Testament?
As you can see on the screen,
there are many law collections
that are very well preserved from the ancient Near East
from the third through the first millennia BCE.
Three quick examples of laws
that will likely sound familiar to the viewer are,
Laws of Hammurabi 117,
if an obligation is outstanding against a man
and he sells or gives into debt service,
his wife, his son, or his daughter,
they shall perform service in the house of their buyer
or of the one who holds them in debt service for three years.
Their release shall be secured in the fourth.
Laws of Ornama 4,
if a slave marries a slave girl of his choice
and this slave is set free,
she will not leave the household.
And Laws of Hammurabi 14,
if a man should kidnap the young child of another man,
he shall be killed.
To sum up, we have covered in this brief introduction
the definition of slavery and the different types
that can be found in the Old Testament.
We saw the various passages that come up in this discussion
and the broader ancient Near Eastern context
into which they fit.
Thank you.
Well, thank you very much.
And that was good, short and snappy presentation.
And of course, I do want to mention,
you have a book on this very subject.
Do the Old Testament endorse slavery, fantastic read.
And of course, your other books also touch on the same thing.
So make sure you guys check that out.
The links will be in the description.
So guys, what do we think about that?
Was he wrong?
Let me have it.
Let me have it.
I mean, there's a reason, Josh wrote a whole book on this,
that he can't do justice to in the space of four minutes
and 18 seconds.
But this is, I mean, this is all stuff that we can flesh out
as we go here, I think.
Is there, when it comes, so for me,
I was quite shocked to see sex slavery in there.
I don't know if I really absorbed that concept
until I kind of saw it written down in your slides.
Can you go into a little bit more detail into what that is?
Like what is sexual slavery?
Yeah, I mean, I think before I do,
one of the things that we need to make sure that we do
in this type of a discussion is to distinguish between
what they considered to be ex
and what we would consider to be ex.
And this sort of gets problematic
and apologetic discussions,
because when we talk about something like rape,
it's very clear that many laws in the ancient world,
including the Hebrew Bible,
would endorse something that we today would consider
to be rape.
However, those same legal sections,
they might not have viewed and often did not view
that particular action under the category of rape.
And so what you often have happening here is,
an apologist will say, no, rape is not endorsed
or rape is not allowed or condoned in the Old Testament laws,
whereas someone in academia would say, yeah, it is.
But the disconnect is because the apologist is saying,
well, the Bible is not calling that rape,
which in one sense is a really important thing
to recognize, right?
If we're looking at what it is that they consider to be ex.
But in this particular discussion,
generally speaking, the more important thing is,
I guess in the apologetics discussion,
I think it's far more common
for the more important thing to be
what we would consider to be ex.
And the reason for that is that the apologist then has
to defend something that they know to be
or they believe themselves to be immoral
as they define it when seen in the Hebrew Bible.
So, okay, all of that being said,
please, anybody jump in and just shut me up if you want.
But, oh yeah, please.
I just wanna, you know, like people are losing their minds
right now about someone saying
that David raped Bathsheba.
I'm like, yes, he did.
And Ann, that is different from laws that say,
this is how you sell your daughter into slavery
to a man who's going to use her for sex,
but that those second parts aren't said in the laws, right?
I mean, there are two different things going on
and they're both happening
and they're both related to this issue of sex
and they thought about it differently than we do, right?
I don't know, is that a helpful piece
of what you're getting at here, Josh?
Go ahead, Dan, sorry.
Well, I was just gonna add that I think
our concept of a person and rights and things like that
is also phenomenally distinct
from how they conceptualize personhood anciently.
Even today, we understand that there are phases
of personhood and degrees of personhood,
but anciently it was quite a bit different.
Women weren't granted full personhood,
legal, moral personhood that we would recognize today.
And really the men were the main possessors
of that personhood.
And so what's consent,
the consent of a woman in a sexual encounter
isn't even on the table, it doesn't even compute anciently.
It would be like asking how they felt
about the Denver Broncos anciently,
it just doesn't compute, there's no framework for that.
And so for people to say, well,
to argue about who's consenting,
who's not who's seeking consent,
it wasn't even a question, it did not matter
what a woman thought.
And so they may not have thought of that
as a violation of her autonomy or her agency or her consent.
And for us today to say, well, today,
that's what we call sexual assault, sexual violence,
rape, all of these things.
And I think one of the knots,
and we'll get into this more in the apologetics portion
of this discussion, but one of the knots
that apologetics require people tie themselves into
is bridging the gap between,
that's how they thought about it anciently.
This is how we think about it today,
but at the same time, the person governing all this
is supposed to be unchanging and eternal
and have the same position, irrespective,
unless we get into ideas of accommodationism.
And there we go, getting into knots.
And so I think it's important that we distinguish
these ideas about personhood.
And yeah, they didn't even,
when Moses conquers the,
and I haven't read this chapter in a while, The Ammonites.
And they say, all the women who have known a man,
kill them, all the women who have not yet known a man,
take them, keep them for yourselves.
That's pretty clearly going to result in this sex slavery.
These are conquered peoples, people taken in battle.
And so they fit perfectly into what you were allowed
to take as property.
So they were more property than person.
And so they had no agency to be considered.
And I think that like the Deuteronomy 22 thing
is really the prime example that where it actually,
I was like, is it 2028 and 29 or somewhere
in Deuteronomy 22, it outlines literally what you do
when a man finds a virgin, rapes her,
and then has decreased her value.
So she's no longer a commodity that can be sold.
He just has to pay the father,
and then he marries the virgin,
or the no longer virgin, I guess.
And then he, I think he can't divorce her either, right?
It's like, so, I mean, you end up with this situation
where it's like, it doesn't say
she becomes your sex slave for life,
but what it says is that she has the value
of a certain amount of silver
that you have to pay the father.
And so like it endorses rape and slavery,
in my opinion on that, in that text.
Like it's saying, well, you know, rape happens,
just take her as your sex slave.
Because what woman doesn't want to marry her rapist?
You know?
It's a pretty good way to ensure that you get the woman
that you want, I think, from the perspective of a man, right?
All you have to do is just rape her.
And it's not even really a punishment.
Like it's not criminalizing the act.
It's saying in the interest of social order,
so that this person is not now outcast
and society left adrift, you just need to take care of them.
And so it's like, hey, if you're gonna do this,
be aware that these are the consequences.
And it's not, it's-
Do it right.
Yeah.
And if anybody, just very quickly in Kipo,
but if anybody's actually concerned
that what we're saying here about,
for example, Deuteronomy 22 is not accurate
or is not consensus, I mean, obviously there are lots
and lots of places that you could read,
but I have an entire chapter dedicated
to just rape and adultery in the ancient Near East
and in the Hebrew Bible and the legal sections.
And there's an extensive bibliography
and it's very heavily footnoted.
So like I deal with all of that.
And again, it's just, this is the consensus for you.
So I noticed someone raised a question in the chat
when I glanced at it about,
I mean, we've been talking about this
about the Bible's position on marital rape.
And it's important to point out that, yeah,
it's as Dan said, like this is not even,
this is not even a concept that enters their worldview,
like on any level, but also important to point out
is that this is not a concept
that really entered any social discussion
until really tragically, very, very recently.
Yeah, I was gonna say 32.
Well, it's not even in some people's discussion.
There are still people on Twitter saying,
marital rape is not a thing.
Exactly, yeah.
And it's been legislated that way, yeah.
I just have to point out too, the big thing for me
is that this text that,
like if you take the perspective that
the writers of the Bible were people living in their time,
great, fine, totally cool.
It gets a little trickier when you say that
these were instructions from an all-powerful,
all-knowing creator of the universe that doesn't change.
That's when all of a sudden it's like, well, how dare us?
How dare we change society's standards?
They'll say, oh, you're being woke.
What's wrong to be anti-marital rape?
So I think it's important to kind of draw out
that the difference there is,
and Ben Shapiro likes to say this,
the difference is it's not that it was,
that slavery was kind of everywhere.
First it wasn't, there were different cultures
that didn't have slavery at the time,
like the Jains he mentions and Aboriginal Australians
didn't necessarily have slavery,
but it's that we're also led to believe
by the same people that these were instructions from God.
And if I could, because then maybe we can,
you can talk about another aspect of it,
but I think it's important,
we've sort of talked about some of the rape aspects
of slavery and the numbers 31 aspect,
but there are very clear slavery laws
that stipulate what we're describing here.
So, and it's often missed, I think,
in just a cursory reading.
So if you look at Exodus 21, two to six,
you have the laws about the male dead slave.
First of all, it's missed that the woman that he marries
and their children are chattel slaves,
and they remain that way, people miss that all the time.
But what is his use?
And this is really critical.
Women are not the only ones that become sex slaves,
but he is being used even as a dead slave,
even as an Israelite dead slave,
he is being used for a sexual capacity
because he's being used to aid in breeding slaves,
house-born slaves.
But I think more dastardly, I suppose,
when you look at verses seven through 11,
this is the Amma, this is the female slave
that is being sold into concubinage.
And again, like there is, as everybody's been pointing
at her, like there is no concern
for what her opinion on the matter is,
but the way that she is being used is sexually,
be it for reproductive purposes
or just for a sexual gratification.
But I mean, these are very clear examples
in the legal sections that are specifically dealing
with slaves that describe the sort of sexual slavery.
I think there's an interesting difference to note
between Exodus 21's treatment of the female slave
and Deuteronomy's treatment.
And I think what Exodus is kind of trying to do
is once the woman sells herself into slavery,
she's obviously tainted goods from then on.
If she's released after six years,
there's not really much that she can do
within the structure of their society at the time.
She can't really go and find a valid marriage
or anything like that,
which suggests the point of buying a female slave
is obviously fundamentally sexual in nature.
But then Deuteronomy changes that.
And I've been curious,
you've done a lot more research on this than I have.
Josh, is there, what's the thinking
on what the point of Deuteronomy's revision
of this law might be?
I mean, it's debated whether it is,
and I tend to think that it is revising for that reason
just because of the way that the syntax is.
But it's debated whether this is talking
about just a general service, female slaves,
someone that's being used for labor,
but not for sexual capacities.
Since she's not being taken into concubinage,
I mean, there are people that make the argument.
But I mean, the way that it's placed,
it's like, you know, the law is set out,
and then it says the end,
and you'll also do this for your female slaves,
which seems sort of, you know, tacked on-ish.
Yeah, an afterthought.
Yeah, so.
And I don't remember if it's been explicitly stated,
but the difference is, according to Exodus,
a female slave does not get released after six years,
but is permanent, whereas in Deuteronomy,
it does say your male and your female slaves
after six years, and laws of Hammurabi
were quite a bit more just,
putting it at three years, I believe, is that accurate?
Yeah. Yeah, that's correct.
Yeah.
The thing that I see, you know, I went through,
like I said, we made 29 pages of apologetic claims.
I lost years of my life making that thing,
but I will say that what apologists will often say,
and we can get into this in the apologetic section,
which will be the funnest part, I think,
is they'll say, well, it never said that
they would have sex with the little girls
that they took as plunder.
Like, it's, you know, and it never says that,
and it never says, as someone pointed out on Twitter,
it never says that the woman was chattel slavery,
it just says that she's not to go with the husband,
she's still got to serve out her seven years.
What would you say to someone who says that?
Me or anybody?
I don't know, yeah, I guess.
I mean, it just doesn't say that.
I think right away, one of the things that I would point out,
and then Josh can continue,
but my instant pushback on these sorts of claims is,
I think the critical thing to recognize here
is there was no protection
against these sorts of things happening.
Yeah, and I mean, in numbers 31,
first of all, sick flex, brah, right?
Like, I mean, I mean, read the passage,
and it says like, guess what they are?
They're numbered as plunder, right?
So here are the cattle and his,
and here's how many women you get, right?
And we have to make sure we set aside
a certain number of those for this other tribe.
So really, this is what you want to say about it,
but the other thing that you were talking about,
and this is sort of a Paul Copani sort of thing to do,
that's become an adjective now, Paul Copani.
I guess it'd be an adverb, no, the adjective, and that's,
anyway, I will do a call panel.
Wouldn't be the adverb,
but is like, oh, well,
what's the guy gonna do in Exodus 21, two to six?
So just very, very quickly for everybody.
The law is saying, the main law is,
if a male slave gets sold as an Israelite
or sells himself as a debt slave,
he serves for six years,
that takes care of the entirety of his debt,
whatever it is, interest, room and board, whatever,
it's all taken care of, he gets set free, no debt.
Then it says, well, what do you do?
If he came in single, he leaves single.
If he comes in married to somebody,
he leaves married to that person,
like they all go out, right?
So however you come in, that's how you go out.
But then the question comes up,
well, what happens if the master gives him a wife
during that six-year term of service,
and the law is explicit that the woman
and any children that they produce together
are the property of the master?
Well, Paul Copani comes up to this and says,
well, you know, like, what did we make of this?
Well, I mean, certainly it can't be what it says.
Right?
Yeah.
So let's put on our thinking cap
and see what we can come up with.
Sorry, that's not nice,
but I mean, that's how it comes across, Paul, sorry.
And he says like, well, maybe the husband can go out
and he can like save up his shekels
and maybe like, you know, buy her freedom or maybe,
but the thing is, maybe he could just wait out
the rest of her contract.
Well, the problem is there is no contract.
Right, take the woman out of the picture for a minute.
Where's the contract for the kid?
Right, what debt did the kid fall into
that now he's serving as a slave?
Like, I mean, in other words,
this is just taking the ancient Near Eastern context
and the passage itself and just sort of going,
bleh, like we're not listening to that.
Right, and trying to come up with something
that makes it, no, these are chattel slaves.
And again, I'll shut up, but this isn't Josh talking
and it's not anybody else on the panel talking.
You know, go read any of the books
that are currently here on this cool little,
whatever shelf that is, it's a bunch of my slave books
because I'm right in the second edition of this book now.
Like, it's just, everybody's echoing exactly
what we're saying and they're the subject matter experts
in the field on these things.
Yeah.
Yes, so chattel slavery, debt slavery, sex slavery,
all things in the Old Testament, in the Hebrew Bible.
It's all bad.
Yeah.
Yeah, they're not good.
We unanimously agree that those are all bad things, all bad.
Everybody write that down in the chat, ad.
And none of us can believe in a sky daddy to claim that.
Yeah, that's not inappropriate.
I don't know, Twitter tells me otherwise.
Twitter tells me otherwise, so, yeah.
So, we probably should move on now to the next section,
which Dr. Kip, have you got something to show us?
So, another big thing that we've noticed
is a lot of people misuse,
they don't know how to translate Hebrew,
me being one of them, and when I was...
But see, you recognize it, David, this is the key.
This was evident this morning.
So, just a fun little behind the scenes thing,
I was putting together the slides,
and when I copied the Hebrew text,
it flicks it back, like it rotates it around,
so I had to copy each character one by one
and put it into the slide, because otherwise it would...
And I'd have to check with my eyeballs
and be like, is that the same thing?
We all started there.
We all started there.
Right, right.
First time we made a document, we all did that.
Yeah.
So, Dr. Kip, you've got a video to show us first, right?
First, I'm going to start with the...
I actually...
Sorry, if we can do that first.
Yeah. Yes.
And I will pull up the video just after my second slide.
All right.
So, I wanted to talk about, because I think this is...
We've touched on this already a fair bit,
even just in this 20-minute discussion,
but one of the very important things to note
when it comes to discussing biblical slavery,
when it comes to discussing a good number of topics
that arise out of the Hebrew Bible,
is just how foreign this culture
and how unusual from our own cultural perspective
these texts are.
So, I wanted to spend some time talking about language.
What is wrong with a plain reading of the Bible?
When it comes to slavery apologetics,
evangelicals will depend heavily
upon a plain reading of their English Bibles
and are either ignorant of or obtuse regarding
the original language of the Hebrew text in particular
and the usage of various words in the cultures and time
in which these texts were written.
The nuances of words, as they appear in a long, dead,
ancient language, are so often lost in translation
or abused out of desperation.
A rather extreme example
of how mind-numbingly idiotic slavery apologetics can be
as a result of misunderstanding the language appears
in this short clip, which I have dubbed
the apologetic of the phonetic alphabet.
So, if we can pull that up now, it's bad.
Is it up yet?
Yeah.
Okay.
We'll go through the Hebrew.
So, he needs to get more learning.
He needs to get more understanding
in the Hebrew language.
So, here it is.
So, chattel slavery is impossible
because Exodus 21-16 explicitly outlaws
all human trafficking.
So, this is PhD, Hebrew scholar Douglas Stewart,
kind of went through his credentials,
points out the transliteration of man
with this unique mark above the S.
So, there's a unique mark above the S on man, ish.
So, is using this verse and indicates all kidnapping
without regard to class, gender, status, or age.
So, this verse should be translated
whoever steals a person,
whether he sells him or is found in possession of him
must be put to death.
It's called the diacritic.
So, this is like a diacritic right here with the S.
You guys see that little blue mark here?
So, the diacritic, the special diacritic here,
there's a special mark above the of ish in the Hebrew.
And I put a circle around it.
And here it is right there, that little V.
It means indicates all people,
regardless of class, gender, status, or age.
So, we just informed him, we just educated him on that.
It's just a few more educated now.
So, I was channeling my very best Dan McClellan
as I was putting together those.
Did they honestly want to say that came from a PhD?
I did.
They said.
I think he must be,
I mean, there's no question in my mind
that he is misreading this or just making it up.
This is to be like super clear.
I've had a lot of interactions
over the past five years with praise.
And we've had like, we've been friends.
And anyway, I'm strongly disapproving of a lot of the things
that he's done recently, but at any rate,
one of the things that I always try to make clear
in these moments, and I'm sure everybody
on the panel would agree with me,
is that we are always super excited
when people try to get into the original languages.
We're always excited about that.
Where it becomes less exciting
is when they come up with things
that it seems like nobody's ever noticed before.
And instead of saying, hey, Hebrew expert,
I noticed something.
Is this anything?
They say Hebrew expert doesn't see this.
Morons.
It's like, ah!
Yeah, so anyway, nobody should hear like,
you rubes going out there and trying to like read scholars
and come up with Hebrew arguments.
Nobody's saying that.
What we're saying is, hey, if you come up with something
and it seems like nobody else is saying it,
you should probably ask, why?
What does the words mean?
Like, literally, like look up the word diacritic
and just kind of, or casualistic.
I have to say.
That was fun to watch, Dan, watch that for the first time.
Yeah, I have to say,
I still don't understand what the controversy is
because I don't understand what's wrong about that clip.
So I was laughing at you guys laughing at it
because I was like, okay, like this is obviously funny.
But then secondly, I want to also point out
because I've got to mention at the start,
we're not giving abstract views either.
This is all consensus scholarship
unless we mention, hey, this is my theory or something
which I don't know who'll be doing,
but this is all consensus scholarship.
David, this will just, when we,
a lot of these Semitic languages
or a lot of these languages, ancient languages,
will have an SH sound.
And instead of writing SH each time,
so like the word each, instead of writing ISH,
what scholars do is they write S
with a little V on top, right?
And that little S with a V on top,
we all understand is pronounced SH,
they call it the SH sound or whatever.
But that's all that is.
So each, if you know, if you were to write it out,
if I had an ISH, so instead of writing ISH,
they write ISH with that little V on top.
That's all it means.
And he was using that to say it meant something else.
He's just misunderstanding what Stewart was saying.
I'm absolutely convinced,
because this happens all the time.
I think it must be that.
So we good?
Yeah, we're good.
So with that in view,
it's crucial I feel to provide a bit of a primer
to a handful of the key words and ideas
for a better understanding of the social world
of ancient Israel and how slavery fits within it.
So what do the words mean?
And I've highlighted a few here
that I think people need to understand
to get a full grasp of the concept
and how to read these texts.
First of all, I wanna talk about the Bene Yisrael
and the Ibri or the Ibriyah.
These are the sons of Israel or the Israelites
and the Hebrews.
These are within the texts,
a distinct class of free people.
And they are always distinguished from foreigners,
the Gerim, the Toshavim, the Goyim,
the Toshavim and the Gerim are those who live inside
the land and the Goyim are those who are outside of it.
It is thought that Ibri, Hebrew,
was once a designator of a lower social station,
but it's clear that over time,
this word achieved a sense of national identity
for the Yahweh worshipers of the side Jordan
and became, or is it Cisjordan?
Maybe it's Cisjordan.
I became interchangeable with being a Bene Yisrael.
And we see this in texts like Jeremiah chapter 34,
verse nine or Jonah chapter one, verse nine.
Now, something that's really important to note,
and this gets missed by people all the time.
And that is that the Hebrew Bible
was written for men by men,
in particular for free men of the community
of the Bene Yisrael.
So there's a tendency to read the text
as if it's addressed to all people everywhere.
And in so doing, we risk misreading,
misconstruing a number of crucially important concepts.
Okay, slaves.
They're distinguished generally,
Josh has gone through a little bit of this,
as distinguished from free men as either male,
avid slaves or female slaves,
Shifcha and Amma.
Interestingly, the two terms for female slaves
appear to be for distinguishing on the basis
of sexual status or age.
Untouched virgin girls are those, the Shifcha,
who, sorry, untouched virgin girls are the Shifcha
and those who have entered a sexual maturity,
the Amma, can then be acquired in concubinage.
Now, perhaps one of the most, in my opinion,
misappropriated words in this discussion is the word ish.
Which, and I'm very deliberately using the S
with the diacritic above it,
to show the proper sound here, ish.
It means very generally a man by the conventions
of our own modern languages,
which are constructs of social history.
We are tempted to view this always as a generic.
And to be clear, it does occur as a generic
throughout the Hebrew Bible text,
with reference to just men, but not always.
Recall that within the context of our readers here,
who are all Benay Yisrael, these are all Israelite men,
this word with great frequency,
always and only applies to this community
of readers and hearers.
And ish is not even every man.
I think in many respects, in many contexts,
and ish is not even every free man.
And ish is a married member of the Benay Yisrael.
He is not an aved, a slave.
He is not a foreigner, a ghetto,
a Toshav living in the land or a goi.
This causes translational issues
when we read about a man in Exodus 21, 16,
even beyond the issues posed by praise I am,
which we might take to be applicable to all men.
But the Septuagint translation here,
as well as the clarification for this rule
in Deuteronomy 24, 7 shows clearly
that this is a limited view of only those
who identify as the Benay Yisrael.
Deuteronomy 24, 7 actually makes this explicit.
Oh, they both make this explicit.
So, and finally, I just wanna say something quickly
about the status of women in Israelite society.
Important distinctions are to be made
with the status and the identity of all female humans
in this ancient culture.
When a girl is born to in a Benay Yisrael
or an ebri, a Hebrew, she is a daughter, abat.
She remains a daughter under the rule of her father
until she is given to a man.
And she becomes a woman, literally,
or a wife and ishah, belonging to an ish,
who has quite literally taken her, lakach,
is the Hebrew word meaning to take.
And this is the word that is used for marriage,
and whom she addresses as ba'al, or Lord.
She may otherwise be sold, in which case,
she becomes a slave, a shivcha for domestic service,
or an ama, a slave wife in a state of concubinage.
A woman exists in perpetual servitude of a man
for the duration of her life.
There is no life for a woman in this culture
outside of her subjugation to her father,
her husband, her owner.
And finally, at no point in any of these transactions,
they're all, these are all transactional.
There's no point in these transactions
in which a woman can exercise her own agency.
And while her standing in the community may differ
from one distinction to the other,
in virtually all of these instances,
she remains the property of a man
she did not necessarily choose,
and satisfies our definition of a slave.
So to sum up, words matter.
Fantastic.
You're here.
I think something interesting to add here
that I've noticed looking at some of the laws
regarding sexual encounters in Leviticus
that reinforces this position I've argued for some time
that concerns about sexual propriety
were more about social hierarchies of domination
and penetration and things like that.
If you look at Leviticus 18, Leviticus 20,
all the laws are explicitly delineating
what men are allowed to do
and who they are allowed to have sex with.
And that's because they are at the top of that hierarchy
and it's regarding how their sexual encounters impact,
they're standing as the top of that hierarchy.
And they're always acting on people
who are supposed to be below them.
There's only one law, once in 18, once in 20,
that addresses who a woman may or may not have sex with.
And that's an animal.
Because that's the only entity that is actually
below the woman on that hierarchy
of domination of penetration.
So it's very much hierarchical transactional.
It is not anything remotely like what we think
of a loving sexual relationship today.
You know, one of the things that we all learn
when we take Hebrew is just the incredible rarity
of the second person feminine plural verb.
It's a unicorn in the Hebrew text.
And the reason why it is a unicorn in the Hebrew text
is because these texts are never
or extremely rarely ever addressed to women.
So you don't even have to use this form of the verb
precisely because the text is almost never speaking to them.
I wanted to just throw in something about your discussion
of the word ish and man, that there's also,
and Josh can probably correct me or expound on this
if I'm stumble here, but in the covenant code,
like from Exodus 20 to 23,
there's a systematic use of the word ish
that follows what we have in the Akkadian law codes.
So where the Akkadian law codes used like the phrase
like everybody who's read Hammurabi
has had to read their shumo,
we lo mo we lo ma, it's as we read it over and over again.
That's like the Kenea form that we learned first
because it's just repeated,
but it's like when a man or if a man,
and then a man is like the generic translation,
but it doesn't mean man, like we mean a man.
It means this thing that they kept saying,
it's a free man belonging to the class of society
that is above all the other classes basically.
And so then when the covenant code is using
these ancient Near Eastern laws
and basically just contextualizing them into Hebrew,
the phrase then becomes key ish.
And so it's just, again, it's just when a man.
And that is, it's playing directly on the language
of the Akkadian law codes and it's used systematically.
And so there's like, there's not a,
it's not just something we're making up,
trying to say like, oh, and ish would be whatever,
but it's just in continuation
with what's going on in the law codes elsewhere.
So even if you find other examples
where ish might be more generic, other places in the Bible,
in the law codes, it's being used precisely
to fit in the legal framework
that we can study in a wide variety of languages
that also have this hierarchy.
And David Wright wrote a wonderful book
called Inventing God's Law,
which shows step by step how the covenant code
and Exodus 21, including verse 16,
is pulling mostly in the exact same order
from these Akkadian law codes,
showing that they were very much just adopting
what came before, which explicitly identifies
the people who are not to be kidnapped
as freeborn male citizens,
rather than just any male human.
Yeah, it's a good book.
It inspired my master's thesis in theology.
I wrote on a couple of laws from the,
from Hammurabi and the covenant codes.
That was, yeah, David Wright's book is great.
So everyone should definitely check that out.
And if anybody's interested in like diving
into this ancient Near Eastern law collections
and how they interact with the biblical texts,
the second edition of the Old Testament
to the Old Testament or slavery
is gonna have an entire appendix.
I just about finished it,
where I'm, I just pull all of the laws
from the law collections,
from Oranama down to the Neobabaloonian laws,
and just say, what are all the laws that deal with
or have anything to do with slavery?
And I give commentary on each of them.
And it's almost done because I'm then going to pull from,
I've gone through CAD and pull almost all of the occurrences
of the words that deal with slavery.
And I'm gonna go through not all of them, obviously.
It's way too many,
but the ones that are sort of salient to the discussion
and give commentary on those as well.
So, and bibliography, obviously.
Awesome.
Well, it might be a good time
unless there's something else to mention.
It might be a good time to talk about slavery
in Second Temple Judaism and early rabbinic Judaism
with Matt Monga.
Are you ready to present, Matt?
Yeah, definitely.
Let me just, let me just open up your slides here.
And just so everyone is aware,
we've got this section and then an open discussion,
a section on Christianity and an open discussion.
And then we will have a short break
before moving into slavery apologetics,
which will be the spiciest and the funnest and then Q&A.
So, let's go.
All right, thanks.
So, what I wanna do now in this part of the panel
is address the topic of slavery among Jews in antiquity
and ask the question if Jews did understand their Bibles
as endorsing and allowing slavery
and how or if they practiced it.
And spoiler alert, Jews own slaves and defended slavery
as an institution in antiquity.
And the sources that we'll look at here,
Philo, Josephus, the Mishnah, the Talmud,
all support slavery and base it on the text
of the Hebrew Bible.
So, we can start by looking at some texts
from Philo of Alexandria.
That's not Philo.
Our choose extensively for slavery.
Philo imagines two kinds of slavery,
one of the body and one of the mind or spirit.
And in his work, which is about slavery
is called every good man is free.
Philo says slavery is applied in one sense to bodies
and another to souls.
Bodies have men for their masters,
souls, their vices and passions.
And Philo's main point is that even if you're enslaved
by the body or in the body, you still can be morally free.
So, there's just this kind of dualism going on there.
He kind of goes on to make it even clearer
that slavery is a good thing.
And says thus therefore,
there's a certain description of affliction,
which is profitable so that it's very most humiliating form.
Even slavery is accounted a great good.
So, for Philo, slavery is not something to be looked down on.
It's something that is relevant and is part of life
and is a good thing that he's trying to defend.
And he uses the Hebrew Bible as justification for it.
So, let's just jump to Josephus,
who we most of us know as a Jewish historian
who himself had been a Roman slave.
He lived a generation after Philo.
So, right after the time of Jesus.
And he mentioned slavery often as part of his descriptions
of Jewish and Roman society.
And he even writes about his own slave
in his work called The Life of Flavius Josephus.
Well, one of the best examples in Josephus
has to do with the priests in the Jerusalem temple,
where he writes that the high priests
had the hardness to send their slave to the threshing floors
to take away those tithes that were due to the priests
so much that the poor sort of priests died for want.
So, this is like the high priests in Jerusalem
also had slaves and used them to, yeah,
to go out and steal the tithes from the other priests.
I mean, there's no way around it
that the established Jewish culture in Jerusalem
was reading and accepting the institution of slavery
as something that they could practice.
Now, there is one interesting thing
that comes out of both Josephus and Philo,
is that they both say that one group of Jews
didn't keep slaves and was different than from all others.
And this was the Essenes.
Now, the Essenes are often connected
to the Dead Sea Scrolls and the Qumran community,
so it's kind of cool to mention them here.
This is from Philo, where he says
that there's not a single slave among them,
but they are all free, aiding one another
in a reciprocal interchange of good offices.
What's then also interesting is that there are very,
very, very few texts among the Dead Sea Scrolls
that actually mention anything to do with slavery.
There are a couple of small texts
that mention a man-servant or a slave or a female slave,
but the text where we actually get some engagement with it
is the text that we call the Damascus document.
This is a text that probably preceded the Qumran community,
but it was copied and found among the Dead Sea Scrolls.
So we find two passages in the Damascus document
that talk about slavery, and both of them just basically
accept it and regulate it.
The first one is talking about Sabbath rules
and says no one should press his servant
or his maid servant, so his male or female slave,
on the Sabbath.
So it's basically just making sure
they're not doing something stupid with their slave
than breaking the Sabbath.
The other one then says,
neither should he sell his servant,
his slave or his maid servant, his female slave,
to the Gentiles, for he entered,
which is he entered the covenant of Abraham with him.
So this is regulating how you should relate
to selling your slaves to Gentiles.
You shouldn't do it.
So again, this is something that is a clear endorsement
and acceptance of the institution of slavery
and it's regulating it further.
It's not doing anything to abolish it or get rid of it.
Last thing I wanna look at is the formative texts
of rabbinic Judaism, so the Mishnah and the Talmud,
which then extensively talk about slavery.
It's interesting that there's 129 passages
in the Mishnah that talk about slavery,
and only six of them have any way of defining
the differentiation between a Hebrew, Jewish,
or a Canaanite foreign slave.
And in all the 123 other ones,
there's a different system in play.
And so Paul Flesher is the one
who's done the most extensive writing on this,
and he says that the scriptural distinction
of native and foreigner does not define categories
of slavery in the Mishnah,
but it's the free men and slave and free men distinction.
So it seems that in the case of the Mishnah,
we don't even have the idea
that there would be Hebrew slaves,
because people, once they were slaves,
were no longer connected to the nation.
They lost their identity.
So one last example, this is from the Talmud,
and so this is the Jerusalem Talmud
interpreting the Mishnah of Baruchot 2.8,
and it says, one may accept condolences
for unrelated free men,
but this is how the Mishnah stated the law.
One does not accept condolences for slaves.
And then it goes on to discuss this and says,
have they not said they do not accept condolences
on account of slaves because slaves are as are animals.
If for unrelated free men,
they may not accept condolences,
surely they may not for slaves.
And then finally, to one whose slave or animal died,
you may say to him, may God restore your loss.
So what we see here is a clear equation
of the slave with property.
If your dog dies, if your animal dies,
if you lose something, you have to ask God to repay it,
but it's not a question of condoling someone
for the loss of a loved one.
So I don't think it can be any clearer than this.
The institution of slavery is alive and well.
We have sparse documentation,
but clear documentation that Jews owned slaves.
And basically what we have is a situation
where the Hebrew Bible is the justification
for the continued use of these slaves in Jewish context.
Now, finally, to wrap this up,
I wanna mention a very recent article
written by Candida Moss
that's called the Secretary in Slave Workers' Stenography
and the Production of Early Christian Literature.
It just came out like a month ago.
And Moss shows that in Roman antiquity,
the production of text was reliant on slaves
as copyists, secretaries, and scribes.
And this is exactly what Josephus was.
He began his career as a prisoner of war
who wrote for the Romans.
And to put it bluntly,
the fact that we're able to sit here and read these texts
is actually a result of the acceptance
and propagation of slavery and antiquity.
We wouldn't have the religious texts we have
in the way we had them,
had the slaves been not been put into use
as writers and copyists.
And of course, if the Christians and Jews had not then
used their Bible to support the idea.
That's it.
Wow.
Thank you so much.
Awesome, cool.
So I have the first question.
So is it possible that every single Jewish person
was misunderstanding their scriptures
like they currently do with Isaiah 53
and all of the stuff about the Messiah?
That must be it, right?
Yeah, yeah.
That was a joke.
I hope it's funny.
I hope it's funny.
I hope it's funny.
I hope it's funny.
I hope it's funny.
I hope it's funny.
I think I'll answer it to me.
Everyone's like, oh, what pedal am I on?
I think what Matthew's presentation,
why it's so important is because it really does underscore
this point, right?
The best way to understand what the Hebrew Bible texts
are talking about are to go and look and see how
the earliest Jewish readers were reading these texts.
And I mean, it is abundantly clear
how they're reading these texts.
And that doesn't mean, so that everybody understands,
that doesn't mean that, okay, well,
how do you figure out what a passage in the Hebrew Bible
says, let's go read early Romanic texts.
And whatever they say, that's what it means.
That's not how this works.
However, quite often that is how it works.
But just as, or maybe not just,
but quite often as well,
you can see what they're wrestling with
and how they're trying to understand
what a particular passage is saying.
And so you can see,
sometimes they do their own form of apologetics, right?
And they try to harmonize passages together
and you can see what it is that they're wrestling with,
which will give you a very clear indication in some cases
of what the text was actually saying,
if that makes sense.
Yeah, and I mean, I had to cut out my whole preface
because I was trying to get down under five minutes
for this whole thing.
But like, I mean, my whole way of looking at this stuff
is through the lens of what I really do,
what I'm really interested in, which is reception history.
So I mean, this, the idea of older texts being
reinterpreted, reused, rethought, recycled in new contexts.
And that's what apologetics is.
I mean, apologetics is trying to receive texts
into a very specifically defined framework.
And they're not the first ones to do so.
And so we should be asking,
well, how did different readers throughout history
understand these texts?
And the further back we go,
well, okay, let's turn it around.
Before the 20th century,
no one was trying to say that these texts
didn't talk about slavery.
I mean, this is just so, I mean, maybe, sure, maybe,
okay, maybe the 17th century in Europe or something.
But I mean, this is modern.
This is post-Reformation interpretation.
And so the big problem with a lot of what's done
to these texts is that they're throwing out the fact
that from the time of composition
and up to the Reformation,
everybody was reading these things
and saying, oh, so that's how you deal with slaves.
And it just wasn't, it wasn't a problem.
And so by showing that these earliest readers of the text
were taking it and saying, yeah, everybody has slaves
and we can, we're good to go.
It just shows that this isn't something
that was very difficult to understand
and interpret, actually.
The things they were wrestling with were the questions of,
well, how do we say, I'm sorry, your slave died?
Like that is the big problem.
Like because you can't say you're sorry
because you shouldn't be sorry because it's just property.
Like that, I mean, that's shocking for us, actually.
But it's the way it was.
And I think you earlier referenced the fact
that these people are using these texts to justify slavery.
I think that's an important clarification too.
And I'll get into it in the apologetics section,
but a lot of people think that a lot of conservative Christians
and others are seeing the Bible as an authority.
The Bible is not an authority, the Bible is a tool.
The authority is really whatever kind of social frameworks
are in place that are serving people's interests.
And in those situations, the Bible is just your proof text.
And so this is, and so the nature of slavery is changing
as just a result of kind of organic processes going on
in a society and the people are gonna read the text
in whatever way makes them feel justified
in whatever serves their interests in that given context.
And that's why in, you know, if we talk about people
using these texts in the pre-exilic period,
which was probably pretty rare,
but it would have been to justify whatever framework
they were borrowing from broader,
ancient Southwest Asian socioeconomic conventions.
When they're in the Greco-Roman world,
they've got a more Greco-Roman way of doing slavery.
And so they're reading the text
to advance their position within that framework.
And today, the text has to be read in different ways
to justify people's positions
within a completely different socioeconomic set of frameworks.
And so I think it's important to point out,
none of these people are beholden to the text,
to the degree that the text functions
as a way to justify whatever serves their interests.
That's really the only sense in which they're beholden.
Can I take this text
and can I make it justify what I want?
And other than that, the text has no authority.
And because it's always good, I think, to use examples
that maybe aren't directly related
to what we're talking about,
something that came up very recently
that shows how this can be done
either in a positive sense or reproof texting
or in a negative sense in dealing with texts
that seem to speak against the position
that you're trying to put forward, you know,
the hem of the garment, the hem of the robe, right?
You know, and Kip, yeah, Kip Dan,
you guys have been obviously talking about this
for a long time, but I mean, like how it is
that later writers and translators
in the different versions tried to understand
what that word truly means.
And when they're uncomfortable with it
and they adjust it to make it fit their particular context.
And of course, that gets done today.
You know, you bring this up, you bring this up,
but I actually, I made, I accidentally made a discovery
about this just this last week
because I was looking at a photograph
of a document called the Peshir Nahum.
This is like an ancient, for lack of a better word
an ancient commentary or interpretation or apologetic
on the book of Nahum.
And I came across this, you know, the verse which says,
you know, Yahweh will basically expose your genitals,
you know, speaking of Israel, personifying Israel
or Judah as a woman, right?
The text in Peshir Nahum has actually changed the verb
where it says, you know, I will expose your genitals
to you will expose your own genitals.
Like it was, it's a small thing.
It's a tiny little thing.
The difference is a letter in the text, right?
But it makes all the difference in the world
and it like illustrates what's going on in the mindset
of the writer or the scribe
or whoever is transmitting these texts
that they've got to make these sorts of changes.
And that's in a period when amending the text
was more of a possibility than it would be
three or four centuries down the road
when the authority of the text was so deeply embedded
that it was a big risk to make more changes.
Not that that didn't happen,
but it's an interesting way to negotiate
with the traditions you're receiving.
I just remember everybody doesn't mean penis,
can't mean that, that's gross.
When people get so Victorian about that kind of stuff
they need to read rabbinic literature.
They need to read,
cause there are some fascinating discussions in there
like the conclusion that Adam was circumcised
cause Adam was created in the image of God
and God was obviously circumcised as well.
So they're not squeamish about God's genitals.
Yeah, well the book of Jubilees actually says
that the angels have to be circumcised
because Adam was created in the image of God
and the angels and there's like,
there's this cause of course God says we, right?
Let us create him like man in our image
and the angels are part of the image
that Adam's being created in.
And so then there's the thing.
So the angels are also circumcised.
So it's like there's this just really weird thing
that just we have to make sure
we get all the things in place literally.
And guys like, I know I said this the last three,
but like God's have penises, right?
Like Enki is the man, right?
In this sense that's he creates with his penis.
He digs it into the ground
to make the Tigris and Euphrates rivers.
So it's funny to see folks like conservative Christians
on vacation in Athens.
If anybody has ever been into any of the gift shops
in Athens, there's usually there's a whole wall
of wooden or clay or stone fallacies
that are either somebody's holding them up,
somebody's using a cart to hold them up
or they're just hanging there.
And people get so squeamish about this.
And it's like, hey, this isn't a far cry
from how ancient Israelites probably would have engaged
with discussions about deity
and probably more frequently other deities,
but also with that an eye.
I don't know, I was in Ocean City, Maryland
last summer walking the boardwalk
and there were a lot of phalluses hanging on the wall
and gift shops there as well.
And my son bought a bottle opener
that was shaped like one.
So I think that's a commentorist trap there Dan,
I'm not sure.
It's so funny.
Big Johnson t-shirts, that's what was driving there.
Just me and my Johnson.
But slavery, right guys?
Yeah.
Yeah, sorry.
Yeah.
I was gonna bring us back on track,
but we're not, we love a good penis conversation
on big drinks.
We just love, it's all we love to talk about.
Any symbols that talk about Jesus' love for the church,
right?
Because that's all it says.
Jesus has just left the chat.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
So let's segue into this New Testament.
Because I'm telling you,
do you think Paul was a Jew?
Oh, did you ask me that?
I only keep things topical, I see.
Yes.
I was gonna say, I think Jennifer's section
is going to make the most people mad, I think.
Because you have some...
Yeah, I wanted to do it.
Yeah, it's us.
I think people like to think that the Old Testament,
God was like 50's dad, he took his belt off,
he whipped you if you did something wrong,
where Christianity is kind of like the New Age dad
who sits down and asks you,
was that really appropriate behavior?
No, that's all right.
So do we wanna jump into the New Testament stuff now?
Sure.
Okay, well, I'll bring up the slide here.
Just let me know when you wanna go to the next slide.
I will, I do wanna just say,
I feel like I'm in this presence of this greatness
on this topic, and I'm doing my best here.
I'll just say that this has been an enlightening thing
for me to prepare for.
Because I had only read parts of Jennifer Glancy's book,
Slavery in Early Christianity,
and I had now read almost all of it
and tried to incorporate her insights
into this presentation.
So Glancy, I hope I do you justice.
So I'm doing this a little bit differently
than my colleagues have.
So if we could go to the next slide,
pieces of this conversation, right?
So similar to what, so I don't need to spend as much time,
but similar to what they've said,
I wanna briefly explain a couple pieces
that were new to me, right,
about the role of slavery in first century Mediterranean world.
I wanna talk about, yes,
pretty much every single segment
of the New York Testament writings.
I wanna talk about the gospel parables
and some of the words of Jesus.
I wanna look at some of the content,
the rhetoric in Paul's letters,
couple elements of the book of Acts,
and I don't have time to get into,
but they're just a slew of early Christian leaders
and theologians who owned slaves and slave peoples.
So there's just so much about it,
about this topic that was just, it's overwhelming.
So let's go to the next slide and I wanna, yeah.
So I think that several things
that have already been touched upon about slavery
is important to keep in mind, right?
It's not just that it permeated the economy,
it's that it didn't happen without enslaved bodies, right?
The world didn't run without enslaved bodies.
It was a part of the world.
It's an everyday part of the world.
And so it was a reality that people like Jesus and Paul
would have been drawing upon as they said things
or when we look at the parables,
the things that Jesus refers to,
he's assuming everybody gets it,
everybody understands that element of society.
Another thing that's important to keep in mind
is that the language used to talk about enslaved peoples
would be body, soma in the Greek.
So soma or somatian, a little body,
the bodily-ness of an enslaved person is so important.
And there's all kinds of tangents for me
that come up with that, especially the fact,
the first time I heard this, I was like, wait,
and Paul makes such a big deal of calling the body of Christ,
the body of Christ, like, wait a minute,
if we're talking about enslavement and body as enslavement.
Anyway, so the two elements really,
from my perspective about this,
is the bodily-ness and the sexual availability of slaves,
enslaved peoples.
So it was such a given, I mean,
it was a given that enslaved peoples were available for sex.
So that race is really important questions
when we look at Paul and his letters.
I also wanna highlight that exposing children,
so a child that the male patriarch didn't wanna rear,
you exposed them, put them out on the dung heap,
and people who traded in bodies would go rear the children.
Most exposed children in the ancient world
actually did survive because they were taken in
and used as slaves, they were enslaved.
And predominantly that means then
that's a track towards prostitution for them,
male or female, but certainly female.
All kinds of things about the female bodies,
female enslaved peoples were not manumitted
until they were no longer fertile,
whereas male bodies, male enslaved peoples
were no longer useful around 30.
So there are all kinds of things about the usefulness,
the bodily-ness, the suffering of people
in enslavement that is really important.
And when I think about apologetics
and this issue of comparing first century
to 20th century slavery, 16th century slavery,
there is not a single element of what I've read
in terms of slave narratives,
formerly enslaved peoples narratives.
There isn't an element in that that wasn't also present
in the first century in ancient slavery.
Keith Bradley summarizes the effects
of the slave trade on those sold
as personal degradation and humiliation,
cultural disorientation, material deprivation,
severance from familial bonds,
emotional and psychological trauma.
There's just nothing nice or polite or kind about this.
Also people say that selling someone into slave,
that self selling a person,
choosing to sell themselves into slavery,
that is actually an argument you're basing on silence.
It was such a rare phenomenon that that happened.
The primary way that people,
for the population of enslaved bodies,
was people born to a slave.
So a woman giving birth within a household
that those children then become slaves.
The second is through exposure of children
and all kinds of things that go along with that.
So bodily-ness, sexual availability.
There's the Elder Seneca notes satirically.
Unchastity is a crime in the freeborn,
a necessity for the slave
and a duty for the freedman.
So we've got to populate the empire, right?
Let's go to the next slide.
I realize I might go over my five minutes,
but I hope you'll be okay with that.
I'm trying to keep it to the main points here.
So the gospel parables and the words of Jesus,
the two highlights here, from my perspective,
are that Jesus uses enslavement language
to talk about himself and his relationship to his disciples.
He tells them that the greatest among you
must be slave due loss of all.
He draws the most common language
that he uses in his parables.
It draws upon that of slaves or enslavement, right?
He talks about fishing and leaven and weeds
and and enslavement, slaves, slave bodies.
As Jennifer Glancy says,
I find no way to recount Jesus' parables
without repeating the violence against slave bodies
that they iterate.
So we don't have time for me to explain all these,
but some of this is just, oh, I hadn't seen it that way
or oh, my tradition growing up
had taught me to focus on this element,
like the prodigal son.
And Luke, everybody talks about the two sons.
Well, what about the slaves who make everything possible
and keep the household running?
And they are the ones, they make a contrast in that story
between a son who's been rejected and now reembraced
and the enslaved, the enslaved peoples coming to dress him,
to robe him, they are not fully human.
They're not fully important.
They're not a part of the honor system
that's taking place here.
The dinner party where the man sends his slaves out
to invite everybody and nobody responds.
And so, well, then let's invite the least of them out there,
the poor, the physically infirm,
but never did the slaves actually get invited, right?
What's happening there?
The enslaved person who's forgiven a huge debt, right?
And the master is just so gracious.
And then that slave turns around
and beats up another enslaved person who owes him
and all these other enslaved people are like,
hey, did you see what just happened?
They went and reported it to the master
and then the master has him tortured until he can pay.
There are people who played that role,
who actually would, the manseps, they would actually,
that was their role was to torture
or even execute naughty slaves, right?
This is real.
These are real lives.
This is real suffering, physical abuse that's happening.
The story of the vineyard, right?
The one where the new tenants are running the vineyard
and the master sends a slave to go collect the rent, right?
And they physically abuse, rape, torture, kill, whatever,
just trying to get to the point here.
And he sends his son and so the front,
oh, the awful part is that they would treat the son
with such dishonor as they treated
these non-fully human people,
these slaves who really cares about them, right?
But this is Jesus' story.
And I happen to read that vineyard story a little bit
as a critique of what's happening, right?
The men in the temple owning these properties
and renting them out
and how they're mistreating everybody.
I do read it that way.
But in the midst of it all,
we have these enslaved peoples who are making the,
make the story run that people don't talk about.
It's almost like they're pushed to the side
because they're not really the point of the story.
And yet there they are in the story.
Matthew 25, I didn't put it on the slide,
is the one with the five foolish and five wise bridesmaids,
as it's usually said.
Mitzi Smith makes a compelling argument
that those are actually enslaved women.
They are at the reception,
they are gifts to the groom, right?
And five are wise and five are foolish.
And everybody gets worried about who's been well prepared,
but really that story also shows us
what we know about slavery for people in general,
which is they are constantly having to be on the watch.
They are constantly, you know, you're working all day
and then you come home from working in the fields
and you work in the kitchen too,
and you have to be on guard and ready
even into the middle of the night.
And you just the exhaustion and the utter, you know,
this story gives voice to this reality.
And Jesus in the Matthew 25 example
doesn't seem to have a problem with it.
He's holding up this scenario as see,
you better be this way,
you better be ready to go all the time.
I forgot to note this in the story
about the enslaved person being forgiven a huge debt
and then not returning that same forgiveness.
Jesus at the end of that parable says,
and so your father in heaven will treat you
if you do not forgive others.
So it's like, Jesus does not seem to,
I mean, I like to talk about the,
as you pointed out for us, David,
just the God of the Hebrew Bible
versus the God of the New Testament.
They both have graciousness,
they both have horrific tempers, you know?
And this is one of those moments where, you know,
Jesus is saying that God, your father
is actually gonna whoop your ass if you're not,
I mean, it's just, it's,
he's working with an understanding that people had
and he's not challenging that, right?
Let's see.
Yes, his parables rely as much or more
on the imagery of slavery than anything else.
I think that's good enough for that topic.
Let's go to the next slide, please.
Letters of Paul.
So here, the two primary issues I think are
the issues of the enslavement rhetoric
that he uses in all of these passages
that are on the slide and this issue
of the sexual availability of enslaved peoples
and how did that then play out for him
in his conversation in 1 Corinthians chapters five to seven?
Is, you know, was he aware of,
he had to be aware of the sexual availability of slaves.
So how did that play out when he's having this conversation
with the men, the people in Corinth about porneia, right?
The sex that's beyond between husband and wife is porneia.
Well, what does that mean when the husband
is having sex with the enslaved person in his house?
In the first century context,
nobody saw that as morally problematic.
And a slave person, an enslaved person's body was useful
and available and they had no consent.
It wasn't the enslaved person themselves
were not seen as morally responsible.
And the person using them,
this was also seen as morally neutral, right?
So the fact that Paul never comes out
and specifically condemns the sexual use of slaves
in this context where he's trying to address porneia.
He doesn't actually do that.
That actually says something
about his potential elitist classist perspective
and not knowing what to do with their realities.
Worse in slave people's actually allowed in the church body
is Galatians three actually real, 328, right?
There is no longer Jew or Gentile,
which I think we can all say is his big issue in that letter.
But he also says slave or free, male and female.
And I love to champion that passage.
Don't get me wrong.
Cause I love what it says,
even though I don't think he himself lives up to it
in the rest of the line.
And in fact, in chapter four,
he reverts back to slavery rhetoric.
He reverts back to the sexualized element
of enslaved women when he refers to Sarenh Hagar.
So it's like he has this,
whatever Galatians 328 actually was supposed to mean
is one thing he underscores his points
by pointing us back to the very embodiment
of the slaves enslaved peoples,
the structure of enslavement within society.
He depends upon over and over and over
in all of these letters.
You know, 1 Corinthians 1, 11, Chloe's people.
I mean, some of these things
I just never stopped to think about, right?
Like bodies in her home, right?
Her enslaved peoples, she's sending as her messengers, right?
I mean, and I've obviously,
I have been disturbed by things like chapter six,
you're not your own, you were bought with a price, right?
So Jesus is at the slave market buying humans, right?
I mean, it's like, we've got,
this is the language going on here, right?
What the Christ him depends upon people
really being disturbed by the distinction
between enslavement and free.
And over and over, we see examples of free people,
free people are not, it's,
it isn't slavery that bothers them.
It's the possibility that they might be enslaved, right?
That's the, that's over and over the actual issue here.
Let's get weak.
Oh, oh, this was kind of fun.
In 1 Timothy 1 time when it talks about
long list of vices, you know, that were,
that are people who are not allowed or whatever.
And slave traders are on that list as this.
So Glancy's and others suggest that we not think about that
as a, as a condemning slavery itself,
more like, well, you know,
we all know that there's a general, you know,
used car sales persons, right?
They don't have such a great reputation,
but nobody is out there saying we should also,
then we should stop selling used cars.
It's just that we have this understanding of the people
that do these kinds of things or not exactly the person
you want to invite over for dinner, right?
So slave trader is, you know,
we're talking about the morality of the person,
not the, not the issue they're actually participating in.
So we can move on to the next slide.
This is quick and easy,
but aside from the fact that I just don't really,
I, the anti-Semitism of this,
or anti-Judaic nature of this book is overwhelming to me.
But also, you know, there's some elements to note, right?
The Peter and Paul connect to communities through,
not through enslaved peoples,
but through the heads of churches,
raises questions about whether or not enslaved peoples
actually were on the same footing as their masters
when it comes to the church space.
That's a minor detail, I think.
But you know, we have something like in chapter 12 of Acts
where when Peter is freed from prison
and he runs to Mary's house and Mary's enslaved person,
Rhoda opens the door, right?
Peter quotes from Joel that your male and female slaves
will be given, you know, this prophecy,
completely unironically, right?
Your male and female slaves.
Really interesting to me,
and obviously not at all surprising,
is that, you know, while the Exodus story itself,
you know, was used by abolitionists over the centuries,
the Exodus story in the book of Acts, however,
is used not to talk about,
the little element of enslavement
is not even in the story, in the summary.
It's there's a, the focus is turned elsewhere,
that particular issue of why they needed to,
why they were crying out, was never talked about, right?
So, you know, and I think that's good on that.
We can move on to the next slide, please.
I think this was the most surprising to me was,
but reading about the collars of slaves,
so the fourth or fifth century Archdeacon, Felix,
had, you know, a collar put on his slaves,
and we have one of those,
and the collar actually has an inscription that says,
I am the slave of the Archdeacon, Felix,
hold me so that I do not flee.
Fourth or fifth century Christian leader.
I don't wanna go through all of these,
although it's kind of enlightening,
but you know, I find it interesting when some of these men,
for instance, leaders in the church, you know,
say things like, well, you should probably
should avoid prostitution, going to prostitutes,
because you might accidentally commit incest,
because it might be your daughter,
the female infant that you exposed
might actually be the female you're having sex with.
This is, these are church leaders
saying this to each other, right?
All kinds of early writings, right,
the Acts of Andrew, the Apostolic tradition,
they all talk about enslaved people,
and whether or not they're allowed in the community,
or how you handle them in the community,
or you know, the haughtiness of your enslaved person
is a problem, not the fact that you have an enslaved person.
I think I've gone over my five minutes,
and I think I will leave it at that,
just to give you all a sense of, yeah.
Fantastic, like overview.
I'm glad you went over five minutes,
there's so much more to think about.
Yeah, you're much more interesting than us.
Well, it's just so juicy, you know,
like how do we not, what do we do with the fact
that Paul is using enslavement language?
And I think, I mean, I remember having these thoughts,
like, oh, I'm enslaved to God instead of the sin,
okay, I guess that's better, but like.
Yeah, but like, but this is exactly,
I mean, like going back to the Philo stuff,
because Philo is in the same basic,
I kind of philosophical world
that some of this New Testament material
is being produced in, right?
And so Philo's distinction between slaves of the flesh
and slaves of the spirit is exactly what Paul is doing,
right?
Because he's saying that even though we're slaves,
like our bodies are slaves of the flesh or whatever,
our spirits still belong to God.
And he's just taking like the whole thing
where Philo is saying that you should be morally corrected,
you need to be, like, if you're morally right,
then you're not enslaved in the spirit.
And Paul's just saying, instead of being morally,
you're just faithfully or whatever.
And so it's just exactly that same dualism.
Which is why we shouldn't be terribly surprised, right?
When you see Christians making this distinction also,
that the spirit is the part that matters,
not being enslaved to sin is the part that matters.
Whereas the body, whatever, you're in charge of your freedom,
regardless of your status.
Paul makes a comment about that.
Don't seek to change who you are when you were called, right?
Maybe we should if you're, but I'm not sure about that.
Well, and this is, I mean,
I've been itching to be able to throw this in here
because this is like in the early church,
it was very obvious that like once,
so in the monastic settings that the idea
that you were supposed to be enslaved in the body
was brought out.
So like you punished yourself,
you set your body into difficult, horrible conditions
in order to show that while your body was enslaved,
your spirit was still in the right place.
And this was like,
so one of my absolute favorite texts in all of texts,
that was very horribly formulated,
but early Christian texts
is the acts of Thomas, which is a Syriac text.
And it's about Thomas.
And so like the tradition says,
and this is a really important thing in Syriac Christianity
because Thomas is supposed to make the gospel to India.
And he takes it, of course, in the Syriac form.
And the acts of Thomas begins by saying,
the disciples are all sitting around a table in Jerusalem
and casting dice to see who's gonna go where.
Oh, this is a great story, yep.
And the dice fall on Thomas to go to India.
And India, and Thomas is like, what?
No, that's stupid, I'm not going to India.
And they're like, you have to go.
And he's like, no way, what does a Jew like me
have to say to Indians?
And he leaves and then the next day,
this Indian guy is walking through Jerusalem
and he's an Indian merchant and Jesus sees him.
So Jesus is still there when this is going on.
And Jesus goes up to the guy, he says,
I have a slave who I want to sell to you.
And they points down at Thomas and says,
okay, and they bargain about him.
And Jesus sells Thomas for 20 pieces of silver
and writes like a note that says,
I, Jesus, son of Joseph the carpenter from Bethlehem,
in Judea, acknowledge that I have sold my slave,
Judas Thomas, to have on the merchant
of Goudnavar in India.
And then Jesus calls Judas Thomas or calls Thomas over
and says, hey, so here's this guy
and the Indian guy says, so is this your master?
And Thomas says, oh yeah.
And he says, oh, well, I just bought you
and Judas was silent.
Yeah, there's the text, thanks.
So it's just like, like literally it ends with Judas
with Thomas just saying, yeah, I'm his slave.
And then the story continues with literally
this merchant takes Thomas to India.
And then of course, Thomas converts India to Christianity
and woo, everything's good, except he didn't.
I mean.
Yeah, that worked well.
It was very Christian nation India.
Yeah, you know, but then this becomes a very important text
for Syriac monasticism where they're like Syriac monks
are inspired by this story.
And even in some contexts, like we'll go to extreme measures
to show that they are enslaved to Christ, like bodily
and keep that distinction that they're righteous
in their spirit, but their bodies are basically worthless.
So can I take this back?
Because I think there's a sort of the elephant
in the room here that's probably gonna be
the most important question that people are gonna ask
about this particular section of the discussion.
You mean why I didn't refer to the directives to slaves?
No, no, no, no, well, I was thinking of something even more.
So Kip and I just did a debate a couple of months ago.
And one of the apologetics that again, we'll get into later,
but I think it's important to talk about it here
is that, well, yeah, Old Testament slavery bad,
but like God is working with mankind condescending,
but by the time you get to the New Testament
in the early church, it's condemned.
So slavery is condemned.
So in the context of what you just gave,
that little chuckle tells me what your answer is gonna be.
I have a section on this in the
Atheist and the Old Testament, but like Dr. Bird,
you're the expert.
So what is your reaction to that apologetic argument?
I think my reaction is historically speaking,
slavery was a part of the world
that let's just go to these people,
whether or not they're historically accurate,
that Jesus lived in, that Paul lived in.
It was a part of their world.
And there is nothing in the New Testament
that directly challenges that reality.
In fact, we have commands to enslaved peoples
to be good slaves.
We have the parts I skipped over
because it was so obvious.
I just wanted to talk about the other parts.
So right, I would invite this person to consider,
what does it tell you that Paul uses rhetoric
that comes out of enslavement scenarios
to talk to the people in these various parts of the world,
of the ancient, the Greek and Roman context?
Like what does that tell you
about whether or not God is condemning this institution
if Jesus is using the language of this institution
to talk to people?
Jesus is telling stories that hold up abuse of humans
and not in any kind of a way saying,
this is a terrible thing.
What does that say to you?
Are you, can you process that?
And I have to be honest, it took me a bit to get there
because even at my stage of, you know,
academic pursuit, it was still hard for me
to actually acknowledge that Jesus tells these parables
that are where he's holding up the abuse
of enslaved peoples as something to emulate
or as a threat, you know,
so people will behave a particular way.
But those two stories of the, you know,
the unforgiving enslaved person
and the one of the Matthew 25,
the foolish and wise young women,
like those two stories in and of themselves to me
say that Jesus also wasn't there
to denounce the institution of slavery.
He's not saying anything bad about it, right?
And it's hard.
Here's the thing, the person that you pose, Josh.
I mean, it's hard to get there.
I mean, if it was hard for me as a scholar
and who came from a Christian background, right?
The first time I was like,
I had Mitzi Smith's like peace on slavery
and torture and kingdom rhetoric, you know, I'm like,
ah, I don't want her to be right, but she's right.
I think she's right to point this out and say,
this is a problematic that Jesus is doing this.
And then I, you know,
some of the more heavily theological passages
in Paul's letters, right?
Galatians four and the heir and the slave,
the enslaved part, whether or not you're a son, you know,
I mean, the issue of family relations
was denied to enslaved peoples, right?
You know, so it's a powerful thing for a male Paul
to be saying to people.
And in particular, this issue of male slaves,
enslaved peoples, as you all said,
for the Heap Rival, Second Temple Judaism,
they were there to populate, you know,
they're useful for, you know, physically for labor,
but also they didn't get to claim any of their own children
as their own children.
They didn't get to be a father.
They weren't actually talked about as being the son
of someone if they were born into slavery.
This, the family ties are cut off.
So when Paul uses that context in Galatians four
in one of the more heavy theological passages
in his letters, I mean, that is,
you don't have that idea without the slavery context
and rhetoric and framework in their lives.
It doesn't make sense without it.
So how is it that God is condemning slavery
if the two biggies for Christianity are well aware of it
and are not condemning it?
And in fact, are using those ideas,
perpetuating those ideas in the language.
You know, Philemon, of course,
I didn't even touch on the biggies because it was so obvious,
but Philemon, you know, it isn't clear at all
that he's trying to say to free him.
That's not clear at all.
And I'm a little bit worked up right now.
So I'm not being collected about like objectively speaking
when you look through, but it's, I mean, I have, you know,
I have students who've never read it, you know,
who grow up without a religious context
and they read this, they read Philemon and they're like,
dude, he is so passive aggressive, manipulative,
emotionally like what, and he's, you know,
he's got a heart on for men.
Like what's going on here?
You know, yeah, the letter, it's not clear.
Paul is ridiculously, you know, informative and directive
with his claims elsewhere.
And he is very, what's the word?
What's the word?
Very obviously not clear about whether or not
Onesimus should be freed.
And I, you know, I mentioned this to you,
to the, to you all in one of our threads, you know,
it took me a while to get to this as well, but I, you know,
I, the fact that the slave, the enslaved person Onesimus,
that name is just really not very clever
because it means useful.
And I have seen, I've even said it myself in the past, right?
Oh, this is a clever play on words.
Wow, wow, that is amazing how detached I was from that,
right, from what I was saying, right?
This is to play on a person's enslavement
in the language of your letter, right?
To, as if it's funny, right?
It's funny to play on an enslaved person's enslavement.
That's what he's doing in the language
when he talks about no longer being useful.
The other words that kind of mean the same thing
about benefit and usefulness.
It, it, it turns my stomach now when I think about it.
And it's hard for me to figure out how to invite someone
to see that for themselves when we've been,
when many of us are taught to agree with everything
and find it, it's all okay.
But again, I also think that the one piece
that helps me to try to connect and understand it is,
I'm not, I don't need Thomas Jefferson
to be a hero for anyone, but you know,
he says things about human empowerment
and he had slaves on his, on his property.
And so how do those two happen?
Because he's just doesn't get it.
He doesn't get, I mean, we could say this about
lots of different elements of life
that people in positions of privilege
really don't get what it's like to be poor, right?
You don't get it.
So you don't even realize you're saying stupid things, right?
And I think that's the same thing
that I don't think Paul really got that he's,
he's being not petty, but he's, he's being,
he's being cruel in his language.
He's being cruel in the way he's treating
another human being because he doesn't see
that human being as actually, actually the same
because the human being is an enslaved person.
And that, you know, the lenses of his world
really affected the way he could
or couldn't connect with their realities
and give any sort of voice for justice
or something like that, right?
In the midst of a world that depended upon
the enslavement of large percentage of the population.
Wow.
Well, that is just such a, it's just,
it's amazing to listen to you talk about this
so passionately and so in depth.
I really appreciate this because I,
what I hear is just like, it's just such
at the, it's some, it's at the core
of what the problem becomes in apologetics
because you have on the one hand,
people that want to say, no, no,
we can never accept these horrible things.
Therefore they can't actually have been
that way in the Bible.
But on the other hand, you've got this,
but we have to take everything in the Bible literally
where it has to be the clear meaning of the text
and the Bible is clear.
And so then you get this double-sided double-edged sword
or whatever that like, that you just,
you can't get around it.
And like it causes so much weird cognitive dissonance,
but at the same time, everyone's just trying
to find solutions and it's just so much easier
when you finally get to the place
that you can take a step back and say,
I can study this text to see how people thought
about these things and interacted
with different areas of society and theology
and philosophy in antiquity.
That's it.
Right.
And then don't have like, so then we don't have to say,
and then make it make bearing on my life or on it.
Because if it doesn't matter what Jesus thought
or Paul thought about slavery,
it's really interesting to talk about it.
But the scary thing for people is when you have to talk
honestly about what those ancient texts say
and do with these hard topics
and then make it apply to your life
or have to be true to you in some way.
And so to be free from that burden,
suddenly it's just like, oh my gosh, that's unbelievable
that that's the way these people are interacting
with enslaved peoples.
But it's just really, really, really, really hard
when you're convicted.
Convicted?
No, yeah.
With a Christian conviction that you need
to keep the text relevant and true.
Right.
And if I could just-
In one breath, they'll say that the Bible,
where do you get your morality from, they'll say.
And then the next breath,
they dismiss all of the Old Testament and New Testament
and say that slavery is wrong.
And they're obviously using something separate
to their Bible to determine that slavery is wrong.
And they know slavery is wrong,
but they'll find ways to rework descriptions.
And then in the next breath, say,
but where do you get your morality from?
Well, the same place you do.
Yeah.
Actually.
And I think that a really good, very quick example
for the sake of Kip is judges 16, right?
Because one of the things that like,
and Dr. Bird, you were talking about this,
and I think it's just so clear,
because there is the one side map that you were saying
that they see that they're immoral things and then,
but they can't mean that, so they have to wrestle with it.
But there are lots of things that we come to the text
and just don't see how horrific they are.
Yeah.
And you know, Samson with the Philistines
in the Dagon Temple is one of these things that's like,
and you can read this story and be like,
man, that's amazing, go Samson.
He was like, my hero when I was a kid,
he's a goddamn terrorist.
Exactly.
I mean, there's nothing else that he is,
but hey, terrorist in Judges 16, right?
Down at 25.
And it's like, but when you spell out
the details of the story, but leave his name off of it,
people are like, oh my God, how horrible is it?
Oh, his name is Samson.
And it's like,
3,000.
I think being able, if I could just,
to put the cap or the icing maybe a little bit
on what you said so eloquently is that
if you are that person who is coming to the New Testament
and you have recognized that you have this lens
that you're looking at it through,
and slave means something in these contexts to you
because you've been raised to think about it that way.
It's great to be a slave for Jesus,
but if you can take a step back and say,
if Samson's a terrorist here, right?
And that changes my perspective on the text.
What if I take that step back and see,
all right, let me make Dulas not servant.
Right.
And let me make it slave in the sense
that I would think about it.
I think it will let you go a lot further
in understanding how they viewed these stories
and what they meant by them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
With that guys, I might move us onto the quick intermission.
It'll be very, very quickly.
Yeah, yeah, sure.
Sorry, I just want to offer one other thing,
which was because it was so helpful for me,
not about New Testament texts, but early Christianity,
that the move to use chains, the neck, whatever,
instead of tattooing faces as in slave peoples
was Constantinian.
He didn't like how cruel the tattoos on the face were.
And most of the collars, slave collars
that we do have are Christian.
They have the Cairo, Alpha and Omega, some sort of.
Right, so I, yeah.
And so that's late, right?
That's fourth century.
So we're just talking, you know.
Okay.
Let's work it out there.
Whoa, that's brutal.
I did not know that that would be an interesting piece
of the museum.
So I'm going to let you guys duck off
and go to the toilet and I'll say a few other things.
And then we'll be back in about five minutes.
So I'll just let everyone duck out.
So thanks everyone for coming out.
I've got a few things I want to mention.
One, don't go anywhere.
This next section is going to be fire.
But first of all, we've got a giveaway.
Everyone who comments hashtag slavery
will get a signed copy of this book.
Not everyone, sorry.
One person out of the group of people here
will get a signed copy of this book
signed by Dr. Josh himself.
So write hashtag slavery.
I'll show you exactly how to write it
in the comments section.
And then after we come back from the break,
make sure there's no spaces at the end
or anything like that.
I think that might stuff it up.
But we have a giveaway tool.
It says we've got five entries already,
which is really, really cool.
Secondly, I wanted to shout out everyone's links.
So let me just do that.
Oh my gosh.
So first of all, if you want to get this PDF,
which has all the arguments and apologetic claims,
categorize, which we'll be going over in a sec,
you can go to deepdricks.com slash slavery.
And there's a, you put your name and email in
and you can subscribe if you want to.
You don't have to.
And then you will get emailed the PDF.
First, we have Jennifer's page.
So this is Jennifer website, jennifergracebird.com.
Her book, Permission Granted, was fantastic.
I'm not a Christian, but Jennifer,
but this is mainly a Christian book.
It is a fantastic book.
I really recommend it to anyone who's a Christian
and anyone who may not be a Christian,
but just wants to understand a theological approach
to some of these hard texts.
Then, MacClellan, he's got his website up here.
He is doing some fire stuff.
You can, his link tree is in the description.
Go check it out.
Keep looking up here,
because of the cameras up here, it's down here today.
Digital Hammurabi, you know him, you love him.
It's Dr. Josh, he's the man.
And of course, his book is linked
if you want to purchase it, but go in,
type in hashtag slavery and you might win it.
Kip Davis has a cool YouTube channel.
Make sure you check that out.
He's doing some stuff on Dead Sea Scrolls
and I've had him on Deep Drinks.
It's fantastic.
And Matthew Munger.
Now, I want everyone go to Twitter and follow this man.
He's got 91 followers at the moment.
Let's see what we can get that up to.
He's going to announce something very big
in the coming few days.
So yeah, go follow,
because it'll be exciting for everyone who loves Matthew.
And of course, you can buy Dr. Josh's book,
Do the Old Testament or Slavery,
which I've already mentioned.
Cool, so let me just get rid of that.
The last thing I want to kind of mention
before I go grab myself a coffee is
that we have our next panel coming up,
which is going to be a fun one.
So guys, this is the trailer
to the upcoming panel in April.
Thank you.
So that is going to be a fun one.
It's going to be nowhere near as academic as this one,
but it will be a really good time.
It'll be just purity culture, horror stories.
We know what purity culture is, we love it.
It's fun to look back on, sometimes traumatizing.
So guys, do hashtag slavery.
I'll just find out how many we've got.
Got 53, you've got a one in 53 chance at the moment
to win that book, signed book.
And I'm going to go grab myself a drink.
We'll be back in a few.
Hey, hey.
Hey, hey.
Hey.
All righty, let me turn that music off.
I was going to ask.
I don't know, I kind of like it.
Am I the only one here in it?
Let me, let me check.
Okay, guys, this is your last chance to do hashtag slavery
and for the giveaway.
Let me just bring up the giveaway.
Like the only time in history, somebody said that.
Yeah, let's hope so at least.
Hey everybody, hashtag slavery.
And you'll get your free prize.
I know.
I wonder if that's going to get like flagged or something.
Okay.
Here we go.
Let me just come on.
This is what happens when Boomer or Jason's,
if you remember these.
Shit, I didn't see it.
Oh yeah, man.
I miss, I miss the mowing more than anything, I think.
It's like the, the best Norwegian chocolates.
It's, it's 10 o'clock in the evening here, guys.
So I apologize that I'm chowing on chocolate,
but I'm trying to try and desperately to energy level up.
Orstine has sent me quite a number of quick lunches.
Yeah.
Nice.
Let's do the draw.
We've got 67.
All right, guys, let's see who's won the signed copy of
Did the Old Testament.
It's my daughter.
Did the Old Testament door slave.
All right.
Here we go.
Come on.
Evolute.
Evoluity.
Evoluity.
Congratulations.
Reach out to me on my Twitter and we'll make sure we get that to
you as soon as possible.
Links in the description.
And if you want it signed, you know, to someone, you know,
a name other than Evolty, let us know.
Yeah.
We can, we can go talk about that.
You can email us as well.
Okay, guys.
Now let's, we're into the fun section.
This is the section that I think.
Sorry.
He's going to use his, his raft of scribble slaves to sign it.
I'll refer to his wife that way.
Oh, you know, I'm glad that Megan's not watching as much as
she would like to.
She's, she's got all the kids.
Cause that's not giving me a lot of trouble, Dan.
Thank you.
You did, you did say to me one day, not long ago that you would
get stuff done if it weren't for your 6,000 children or whatever.
That's true.
I mean, yeah, I don't know.
It's why he doesn't sleep, right?
Yeah.
Okay.
So this, this document that we've put together has a catalog of
like everything that we could find for the apologists and this
amazing image that I made yesterday.
I just love Mark Winger's face.
So the categories, I thought we could go through the categories
and we can kind of discuss them.
If you've got any other ideas, we can just, just this very casual
part of the conversation, but I want to talk about the first
category, category A, A, not real slaves.
It wasn't real slavery.
It wasn't race-based.
It was nice slavery.
Sorry.
This is a section where I feel like I'm going to want to talk all
the time.
I'm going to try to make myself not actually, I did actually
forget Dan, you had an introduction for this.
I totally forgot that you were something.
So I'll give a four to Dan.
Well, I, I do have a brief introduction.
I'm not going to put up a slideshow or anything.
Not quite, quite taking it as seriously as, as the rest of the
panelists, but I just wanted to briefly introduce my perspective
on, on what's going on with apologetics regarding slavery.
Apologetics is something I address frequently on my social media
channels and I have pretty strong feelings about it.
But there was a, there was a super check question earlier that
kind of caught my eye that might offer a, a good kind of segue
into this discussion if I can find it.
And do you remember what it was the back?
So I'll pop it up.
It was a yellow one.
It was about how scholars use sociological frameworks to try
to reproduce the mind of, of ancient readers.
To be able to interpret the texts.
Do you remember how long?
Just like on the, on comments and then go to the starred ones.
It's almost at the bottom.
Okay. Yeah.
So we have in studying slash interpreting the Bible,
how do scholars use sociological perspective to put themselves
in the shoes of the author.
WRT supernatural claims with reference to us.
How do you interpret the author's motive slash beliefs?
That's a, that's a very complex question and a very interesting one.
There are sociological frameworks that people use.
I actually specialize in cognitive frameworks to try to take what
we can discover through experimentation with.
Living informants about how we think about deity and identity
politics and religious identity and that kind of stuff.
And then see how we can superimpose those insights on ancient texts
and cognitive linguistics, cognitive science of religion.
Those are two frameworks that I've used for this.
And one of the things that it took me a long time to learn to kind
of disabuse myself of is the very, very common assumption that
texts have inherent meaning that somehow metaphysically there is
meaning that is residing in those texts and that we're somehow
unlocking it and that we can, there's, this meaning is hidden
somewhere and there's a way for us to excavate it and find with
confidence that actual meaning.
And that's just not the case.
Every time we read a text and particularly texts like the Bible
written a long, long time ago in a place far, far away.
Most of the people on this panel anyway.
We're reconstructing the meaning ourselves and we just have to
kind of hope that we have reconstructed something that
approximates to some degree what was intended by the authors,
what was understood by initial audiences.
And it's a phenomenally complex process, but it also means that
there is a lot of leeway in how texts are read and what they can
understand, which is one of the things that gives people the
opportunity to negotiate with the text and try to make it say
things that are going to serve their interests.
And something I'm fond of saying is that every engagement with
the text as any kind of authoritative text, but the Bible
particularly is an attempt to negotiate meaning out of it that
will either make it more meaningful or more useful to us.
And we're frequently unconscious of the frameworks that are
guiding that negotiation, that renegotiation of what the text
means and frequently we are being guided by a desire to curate,
to advance, to protect, to promote the social identities that
are important to us and are standing within them.
And so that intuitive impulse, which is evolutionarily
installed, it starts from the need to belong within a social
identity to really survive, to progress, to live long enough
to reproduce. Evolutionarily, we want to be safe in our social
standings. We want to know that our social identities are good,
that we are good, and we want to advance our standing within
them. And we're not even aware of the many different ways that
our minds project our experience of the world in a way that
facilitates those goals. And so the readings, frequently the
readings that resonate with us, that we're the quickest to go to
intuitively are those that are going to advance our interests,
protect our standing, promote our social identities.
And if we're not aware of those, if we're not interrogating
them, if we're not thinking critically about them, we're just
going to blithely do whatever our intuitive cognition drives us
to do, which in a, for most apologetic, arguments is going
to be to make the Bible what our community assumes asserts that
it is, which is usually univocal, inerrant, in contemporary
Christianity. Univocality is the assumption that the Bible speaks
with one unified, consistent voice. Two passages cannot
disagree with each other. If they seem to, it just means we are
misunderstanding one of them, and we have to understand better
what the original author's intended. And when we do that,
again, intuitively, subconsciously, we are going to be pushed,
nudged subconsciously towards centering and prioritizing whatever
agrees with our ideologies, and then reinterpreting whatever
does not. So this process of harmonizing, reconciling the
Bible is a process of figuring out what makes the text most
meaningful and useful for us, and then rereading whatever does
not, so that it then aligns with what makes it meaningful or
useful. And so for apologists, it's frequently going to depend
on whatever ideologies, whatever ideals, whatever standards
exist within the social groups to whom they are speaking. And
for, you know, for some, they are going to want to deny that
slavery was approved at all. For others, they're going to
want to try to kind of lessen the severity of what's going on
there. And really, it's not about identifying what the text
actually meant. It's just about coming up with a way to gin up
the tiniest little sliver of it's not impossible that this is
what was meant. And whatever that is, as long as it makes
your audience happy, and as long as it makes your audience
feel justified and validated in their belief, whatever those
beliefs might be, you've done the job. So many apologists are
successful. They're not accurate, but they're successful to the
degree that they help other people feel validated in believing
that the Bible is inerrant, is univocal, is the very word of
God. Unfortunately, the data don't support those arguments.
And so let's get into looking at some of these arguments,
talking about the data, and what they really indicate about
what the Bible says about slavery.
Can I just ask Dan, are you drinking gin?
Like all the time?
I'm going to tell you a secret. Gin makes me nauseous. I
haven't had a drop of alcohol in a little over 20 years, but
when I got kicked out of the University of Northern Colorado
in 1998, I came home and decided to drown my sorrows one
night, and what was in the fridge was a bottle of gin, and I
had the worst night of my life.
Just a dumb story in case.
We need to get you to come on, date drinks, and just tell
that story in long form for two hours. That sounds like an
amazing story.
I thought I would immortalize that just real quick before we
move on. Thank you, Dan.
No, these are things I talk about a lot on my social media
channels, and so obviously once you get me going, I rant with
the best of them.
That's great.
What's your comment? You've become a meme.
Okay, let's hear it.
All right, let's see it.
Yeah, let's see it.
That's right.
Great.
So that was a fantastic opener. Does anyone have any
thoughts on that before?
It was just so well said, I think.
There are some problems.
Yeah, let's talk about what's going on in here.
Not real slavery.
Yeah, so these are the, and again, people can go to
deepdrinks.com slash slavery, download the PDF for
yourself, but we've got it all catalogued and the links, but
things like, I'll just read out a couple.
It wasn't real race-based.
It was only temporary, just six years.
Slave owners were commanded to treat slaves as employees or
hired workers in terms of the work they gave.
They were given security and provision and room of board.
Slave owners were commanded to maintain family unity.
Lifelong servitude was not permanent unless voluntarily
entered into.
If slaves were injured, they would be set free without
debt.
Slave owners had to give liberally to a freed slave.
So if I may be, oh, sorry, Kev, go ahead.
No, I was just going to start with the race-based one.
Couple things here.
I mean, yes, I think right away we need to point out that the
white supremacy was not a thing in the ancient
areas.
They all understood themselves as part of the same
anthropological fabric.
So what this meant in reality was that you could be a slave
or you could be an enslaver.
It just, you know, it happened to be, you're all the same
substance, but you fall on different sides of this
spectrum for a variety of different reasons.
So that out of the way, this doesn't affect in any measure.
It doesn't provide validation for the treatment of any other
people, whether it's on the basis of the race or the fact
that, you know, they were captured in a war or that
they were found in this situation of misfortune through
economic depression.
It just shouldn't make a difference.
I do want to, I'm trying to remember her last name,
just turning blank her last name, Denise, who's a New
Testament scholar at Williams, has been doing some
scholarship on the creation of race and why this new race
within Christian scripture.
So this concept of race and racializing is not as modern
as some people are saying right now to try to make things
clear and complicated, but none of, I just wanted to note that,
but it doesn't dismiss anything of what Kip just said about the
way people were found and saved within this system.
But also, it seems like a lot of those comments in that it
wasn't real slavery category come out of a misunderstanding of
reading Hebrew Bible laws.
And the issue for most Christians, it seems to me,
is just as relevant when we're talking about the New
Testament and early Christianity, right?
So this, you know, whichever collection of scriptures you
want to talk about, the reality of slavery was, it was real.
I mean, so it's almost like, no, this is just an
under-informed claim.
They're just not reading the history.
They're not reading.
They don't know about X, Y, and Z.
It seems to me.
And I think this is a distinction that doesn't really
change the fact that it's still chattel slavery.
I think some people think if you identify it as not race-based,
that somehow throws out the baby of chattel slavery with the
bathwater of race-based slavery.
But the whole concept of race as a dimension of skin color or
something like that was kind of formalized as a way to
rationalize and justify chattel slavery.
And so it is serving the interests of chattel slavery,
and the Bible is explicitly endorsing chattel slavery.
And that's one of the biggest assumptions that is overlooked
by pretty much every single one of these comments,
because there are passages where it talks about when abuse of a
slave is wrong or when slaves have to be recompensed and
things like that.
And that is probably referring to Israelite slaves,
whereas there are other times when it's referring to foreign
slaves, people who are bought or conquered, who are not
Israelites, where the slavery is very, very different.
It's chattel slavery.
But that's like the thing that's so shocking about claims that
it wasn't race-based.
And so, okay, fine, we can discuss what race is compared to
ethnicity or whatever kind of belonging, community groups,
whatever we want to talk about.
Like, sure, maybe the concepts weren't exactly the same of
what those things were.
But like, that's literally the only category separating slaves
in the Bible is based on that belonging to the group or not.
Right.
And so it's not like you can say, oh, no, it wasn't race-based
because they didn't know much about race back then or something.
Like, literally, they say like, if it's one of us, here's some
rules, but literally anybody else, you can buy slaves.
Right?
I mean, and this is just the shocking thing that you can try
and say that it's not an othering of it.
They're saying the foreigners outside here and the foreigners
living here, feel free to take them as slaves.
But Josh, do you want to tell me?
Yeah.
I just, no, no, no, I spot on, but sort of so that everybody
understands, when somebody like Frank Turrick in his, you know,
I gave my ASOR paper this year and I used, in that section of
it, Frank Turrick's like seven points that he has on his
slide.
I hate that slide.
Was Frank Turrick not at ASOR?
Yes, surprisingly.
But the reason that these guys bring this up is because, and
everybody on this panel knows this, and probably everybody,
almost everybody watching, but just so it's clear, is they're
just trying to draw a distinction, any kind of distinction
between the slavery in the Bible and the slavery in the
Antibom South.
If they can draw one, if they can nail one that they think is
like, I don't even say think, if they can make you think is
essential to Antibom slavery, then they've drawn the contrast
between those two.
And now you can disavow yourself of any connection between
those.
It's really, it's an insidious thing to do because a lot of
the things that you've said, and we could talk as much or as
little about this as you want, but like a lot of the things that
you're pointing like, oh, well, they have to do this for the
slaves, or they can only serve for this, or they couldn't
abuse them.
So many of those arguments you could make for the laws in the
Antibom South.
I mean, like, let us not be confused or misled here.
Be not deceived.
This panel is not mocked.
So anyway.
I think that's such an important point that Dan makes.
Is that, you know, the apologetic agenda here and as it is in so
many other places is just answering this question.
Is it possible?
Right.
And if it's possible, then that's, that's what we're going with.
I, you know, it's right up there with my, my other favorite
slogan for apologists is, can I harmonize this?
Which is something I actually saw in a chat on a, on a video
once, but this is, this is what it's all about.
Right.
And, and that's even the very last bullet point on category A.
Slave owners had to give liberally to a freed slave.
If only Deuteronomy 15 counts.
Yeah.
But it doesn't.
And that's an example of saying, well, this helps my argument.
So I'm going to reinterpret this.
And I'm going to say that, or just ignore it all together.
And, and it is astonishing the degree to which apologists have
refused to acknowledge the distinction between chattel
slavery and debt servitude.
Like I've, the first time I watched Craig, William Lane Craig
talk about slavery and say, Oh, it was all voluntary.
It was all that.
So it was like, that's, did I, did something get edited out?
Like you cannot possibly think that that is, is represented
of the, of the entire text.
And for literally weeks, I was like, I'm missing something.
There's no way this dude is just going to ignore all of these
passages that are so explicit.
It's, it's bad faith.
It's, it's actually like, I, I thought a lot of these
apologists were just, you know, they're doing their best to try
and like, okay, like let's, let's, let's, let's try and make the
best of the bad situation.
Let's, but no, that like a lot of them are just being, at
least from my perspective, I have no doubt in my mind that
they're bad faith.
They're trying to pretend that the Bible is saying something
that it's not in order to keep people and in order to remove
the cognitive dissonance that people get when they read those
scriptures.
And even if we assume that's like, even if we assume that, you
know, we're going to be very charitable and say they actually
don't think that chattel service.
The reason that so many people do in my experience is they
don't understand the definition of chattel slavery.
And so when people hear chattel slavery, they make a connection
with the Antebellum South and they say, okay, well that is
chattel slavery.
And so that means that chattel slavery requires that you can
strip them of all their rights and you can beat them to death
and that you can do all of these horrific things.
And only then is it chattel slavery.
And that's why, like in the beginning of that really short
little presentation, it's like, I have to get the definition in
there because chattel slavery is slavery that is not contingent
upon the repayment of a debt period, your property.
That doesn't mean that every right is stripped from you.
It doesn't mean that as Paul Copeland says, you can treat them
as a beat up old couch.
It doesn't mean any of that.
And that's why I think it's so important that like recognizing
that in the ancient Near East outside of the Hebrew Bible,
slaves had some rights.
I mean, like that doesn't mean that they weren't chattel slaves,
folks.
I often, sorry to interject.
I know this panel is about you guys because you're the experts,
but I often, when I run into an apologist, I won't even use
the word slavery.
I'll just skip all of that nonsense.
And I'll just say, is it morally okay to own another human being
as property?
And then they'll tap dance.
I'll go, is it okay?
Has it ever been okay to own another human being as property?
Well, you have to understand the context, David.
That could mean so many things.
Your employer kind of owns you, don't they?
Not really.
You just don't understand the Hebrew V above the S.
That's what it all counts for.
Yes, yes.
And I think it was, David, it may have been in one of your teasers
where you shared the video of the person comparing slavery
to professional sports.
Oh, yeah.
It was copen, wasn't it?
Yeah, it was polka.
Yeah.
Oh my gosh.
In addition to the fact that it is problematic to talk about a
stable of athletes who are overwhelmingly black and to talk
about, you know, that's problematic in many ways.
But at the same time, good grief.
How desperate to make this go away.
Do you have to be?
To be like, yeah, it's just the same.
Like on the face of it.
That's just laughable.
But this is why folks that are watching, like just because somebody
has doctor before their name and I'm not taking anything necessarily
away from Paul as a person.
I've spoken with Paul.
He's a really nice guy, but there's a reason that people specialize
and like you have to figure out and look at what is it that
people know about this particular topic.
Where have they been trained?
Yeah.
And who are they citing?
And I think since we're talking about apologetics,
Josh, you and I have talked about this in the past,
something that's gone on with some other apologists who are
trained in fields.
Well outside the fields they're commenting on.
This is a technique that I first heard about and at Trinity
Western Kip where we read God's word in human words.
But Kent Sparks, yeah.
Where he talks about the method of sending people out to get
advanced degrees in what he called the soft sciences,
a seriology, Egyptology, textual criticism, all these other things
so that you then have the authority to come back and then talk
about the problematic issues that you have not been exposed to
and so your faith has not been threatened.
But now you're going to come back and lower the hammer on these
issues in a wildly uninformed way.
If you're talking about documentary hypothesis and you're
not citing anything from after 1960, it's really clear what's
going on.
And I think this is going on with slavery as well.
There are a lot of people who have not done their homework,
but because they have that PhD, there are enough people who are
going to say, I trust them.
Therefore, I feel validated.
It's like when Jordan Peterson comments on climate science,
he's like, well, I've read 50 books on climate change and I'm
not convinced it's man made.
And you're like, oh, okay.
What information do you have in these 50 books on the climate
expert side?
I was just going to say as a person that falls squarely into
this category, I have masters in theology where I studied a
shit ton of Hebrew and I taught Hebrew.
So I knew the languages.
But as a fundamentalist evangelical, all I needed was the
language because all of this nonsense about like redactions
and versensions and sources, ancient Near East.
Look, the Bible is handed down by God, right?
Period.
The greatest American that's ever lived.
And so why go get a PhD in something that I already master,
right?
So you go get a PhD in something that's adjacent and that allows
you to now hold two fists up and really pound the atheist, right?
But the reality is that you don't get trained in critical
scholarship.
So you might ask, and I'll shut up, but you might ask, well,
Josh, why would you ever talk about the Hebrew Bible?
Well, number one, I never ever say I'm a Hebrew Bible scholar
because I'm not, right?
I minored and did in my PhD.
But the other thing is you will never hear me break new ground
that doesn't either incredibly, isn't incredibly vetted,
heavily vetted by scholars in the field that are subject matter
experts.
But even then, like, I'm probably not going to break new ground,
right?
All I'm doing is saying, here's what all of the subject matter
experts in this field are saying, have fun.
And I think you demonstrated that in your presentation by
starting from the basics of broader ancient Southwest Asian
legislation.
And you bring up Jordan Peterson, which is funny because he's
on Twitter right now complaining about my criticism of his
criticism of the Pope.
You made it.
You made it.
You made it.
You made it.
Wow.
So I just want to throw out there that, like, I think
Josh is probably the most humble person in the room at the
moment.
Yeah.
Because, like, he's written more books than all of us.
He's written more books on the Hebrew Bible.
He's written a book on how to pray in a dead language.
Yeah.
But, like, so it's just, you know, I know plenty of people that
call themselves professors in the Hebrew Bible that don't come
anywhere near having your expertise and depth of understanding
of what's going on.
So I think it's very admirable that you make sure that you point
out that you aren't doing, like, primary research on these
things or whatever.
But you're a very good Hebrew Bible scholar.
We appreciate what you do.
Yes.
Very generous.
And some of us are legitimate frauds here, too.
Yeah.
That's what I'm talking about.
I graduated from the University of Manchester.
And it took me a couple of years before I noticed I worked at an
evangelical university, well, at Trinity for a while.
And there was a seminary at Trinity.
And I realized, you know, after not too much time that there's a
huge number of these seminary profs have PhDs from the University
of Manchester.
And the reason for that is because prior to when my Dr.
Potter took the position of the Rylans chair in biblical
criticism and exegesis, it was held by, was it Bruce Chilton
or Metzger is one of these guys.
Yeah, it was Chilton.
Metzger was at Princeton.
That's it.
But Chilton, so Chilton was for years at Manchester and accepted
all these guys to do like keep her Bible text criticism to do
their PhDs.
And yeah, again, these are these are guys who, who went and got
their PhDs, hung it on their wall, and then just turned around
and continued, continued doing whatever it was they were doing
within their, their evangelical bubbles.
I'm looking at getting my PhD at the same place Kent Hoven got
his.
So I don't know, man, it's pretty prestigious.
I don't know.
I mean, there's still, they are still accepting applications for
the fall semester.
I mean, give me a call.
I'm here to help.
Okay.
All right.
Category B, just, I just, I just want to, I know you're going to
say something Jennifer, we can segue.
But then after that, we'll segue to category B, which is slaves
more like prisoners in today's society that were being punished
for doing something wrong.
So that's the next category.
I think the last one, this is the category where we can just
call them the bad guys, prisoners of war who are captured.
I think I've seen, I've seen folks talk about this idea that
these were people, they were enslaving or putting to work
because otherwise they would organize and revolt or something
like that.
And so that was, it's not really slavery.
It's just, it's just kind of this, you know, forced labor.
And, and that I find, I find ridiculous because the Bible
frequently just says, kill all the men.
That's what they did.
If they were afraid they were going to revolt.
It was a lot more trouble to try to oversee a whole population
of people you didn't want to revolt.
And, and so, yeah, that's a ludicrous claim.
And I don't know who John McCrae is.
His green name is what do you mean?
Yeah, really helps you at all.
He's incredibly popular.
I've heard of that.
300,000 subscribers.
Yeah.
I want to, so we do, we're going to be short on time here.
So let's try and, and this is one that's really, let's try and
slam through these, but yeah.
Yeah, I was just going to say to the issue of we're just punishing
people like that just again, it's not, people are not informed.
They're under in, I like using that phrase under informed
because it's, I'm not saying that you're dumb.
You just haven't exposed yourself to the right information.
Right.
And, and the fact that the first two primary ways that people
were enslaved in the ancient contact, my ancient Mediterranean
was you were born into it or you were exposed as an infant.
I mean, that's the majority.
There's a, you know, like, that's just, this doesn't even,
doesn't even resonate, you know, with the reality.
Yeah.
And, and it's just, I mean, it's just shocking again,
the, the morality that comes out.
I mean, like every, like, I mean, how can it be an argument to
say, oh, they're just getting punished.
Like, I mean, the choices are death or slavery.
So, hey, look at how great it is.
It's just so messed up.
Like it's just so much easier to say, that's bad.
Yeah.
Isn't that okay?
Isn't that?
Can I, can I give a small piece of advice just because I feel
like I have to deal with this sort of thing every day is a
technique that I have learned to use now is when people use
almost all of these excuses, if you just look at them when
they're done and say, therefore, there's a really hard
sentence that's coming from them.
So, well, it's, you know, it's, it's, they had to set them
free after three years or six, of course, I'm sorry, I'm
channeling Hammurabi here.
They had to set them free after six years, you know, and so,
and they had to let them take off on the Sabbath and you say,
therefore, what, what they're going to say after that is going
to be very telling, right?
And because they're going to have to then say why that
justifies slavery.
Right.
Right.
And there's, there's usually an, an attempt to try to draw
a dichotomy between voluntary or involuntary, which is like,
oh, they had the choice.
No, they're being coerced.
They're being forced.
They're, they're being threatened.
And that's not, you know, that's, that's a spectrum.
And when you're on that spectrum, it's not, it's not as
simple as, you know, did they put a gun to your head or did
they not?
And those are other attempts to, to use definitions and
boundaries around concepts and words that I wildly disagree
with, but that facilitates that kind of misdirection and
misrepresentation.
And a great passage to take somebody to, and I'll shut up on
the whole voluntary and voluntary thing, which by the way,
in the ancient Near East, like we have contracts that are,
that say, uh, is to Ramanish, uh, Ramanish you like from,
from my own free will that are from infants.
Yeah.
Right.
Is it, but one passage to take them to in the Hebrew Bible,
second Kings four, one, just have them go there and see,
you know, when that, the, the, the wife of the prophet who says,
Elisha, come and help me because the creditor is coming to my,
my husband's dead and the creditor is coming to take my children
away.
Like, tell me how voluntary that was for her.
Right.
Yeah.
I'll jump to a few super chats because I actually ask some of
the questions that are in the document.
Um, and we just got a few funds.
I'll just pop up quickly.
Um, had a thought about slavery and rape or grape, I'll say,
I guess you could say it's humanity has outgrown Jehovah's
laws.
Hmm.
Thanks for the stupid chat.
Um, important topic things for the topic.
Thank you all.
Um, except Josh, who doesn't appreciate.
Love this panel.
Thanks all.
Thank you so much for the super chats guys.
It really means a lot.
Um, fascinating discussion.
Thank you, David.
And the panel, uh, even Queen, of course, coming in with the men
in love with their own PP since the beginning of time,
confident to know that some things never change.
Amazing crew to have here listening intently.
Thank you so much.
Powerhouse panel, uh, is, uh, is awesome to get experts such
scholarly perspective on such as sensitive and often
misinterpreted subject in the books of the Bible.
Uh, the skeptics and scoundrels, um, great content creator,
by the way, go subscribe.
Thanks to everyone for the time and energy sacrificed to
make this happen.
It's been great to listen and learn.
You could even say discussing was enthralling.
Uh, he jumped on.
He's a patron supporter and he, he jumped on last night and
we, he helped me with some of this.
So nice.
Um, and I'm just getting through all that.
And we just had a few, thank you Valerie for just the 10
points of support and channel support.
I really appreciate it.
Um, discovering ancient history with Pat Lowe,
putting things into historical context, rolling eyes.
Yep.
It's how dare we.
And when they move from rehabilitation to fabrication.
So now we'll get through some of the questions.
So they were just the, the, the support, which thank you so
much guys.
Um, some apologists defend rape and, uh, taking women into
warfare sex by claiming that alternative options at the
time would have been worse thoughts.
I think this is, um, I mean, is, is this really defending the
Bible is just saying, well, you know, it's better than,
than the alternative is, is I, I don't think that's much of a
defensive anything, but something that, that I, one of the
reasons my channel's motto is data over dogma, something that
apologetics tends to do is not let the data operate on its
terms or follow the data where the data lead.
A lot of apologetics treats the data as obstacles to be moved
out of the way to get to a predetermined goal.
And if you, if you're looking at this and thinking, well, it
could have been worse.
I mean, what kind of point is that making except for just
trying to draw some line of distinction, as was mentioned
earlier and saying, well, we're on the better side of that
line than the worst side of that line.
And therefore the Bible is an errant, univocal.
God is the author.
It is all inspired.
And, you know, we win.
Or they could just say, I don't know anything about,
or care anything about women.
That would be, that would be a lot more honest.
Yeah.
And, and we don't have to go back too far to see things like
all men are created equal to know that in that time period
that absolutely was not believed by virtually.
Anybody responsible for the composition of that text, none
of them thought of that phrase the way we think of it now.
And so these are rhetorical texts and to try to parse
apart the things that apologetics tries to parse apart
based on these texts without acknowledging the rhetorical
nature and everything like that.
It's, yeah, it's ridiculous.
But I have to step out.
I have some other responsibilities I have to take care of.
So I appreciate your time.
I appreciate the invitation.
Thanks for the attention of everyone here.
Thanks for your contributions.
Well, thank you so much.
I appreciate that.
And I'm very flattered and humbled and honored to be able to
take part in this discussion.
And I'm sorry for bow guarding the time that I did.
But I would love to join you again at some point.
David, thank you so much for putting this together.
I'd love to have you on.
Talk about your drunken gin adventures.
And of course, all the stuff, all the stuff.
All right, have a good one.
We have, I just want to jump in on what he, what Dan said there,
because I think it's just, no, I lost my train of thought when
I started thinking about Dan's gin.
Rolling on it.
But no, but so Dan was, I mean, just again, I think what we're
showing again and again is that there is this, there's just this
idea of morality that's in this apologetics thing that is just
so weird.
Like you have this idea that we, that like Christian apologists
usually want to throw at us who aren't Christians, this thing
that, well, where do you get your sense of morality?
Right?
You can't, you can't have morality without God, without this
kind of objective thing.
And if you say anything that's supposed to be objectively wrong,
then you're, you're falling into the trap that you then suddenly
admit that you believe in God or something and they do these
little tricks to try and trick you into, into admitting something.
But like the things that they admit to thinking are okay.
Yeah.
To say rape and enslavement is better than death.
So let's say that's a good thing.
Good thing God let them do that.
Well, they will just, they won't say rape.
They'll say it's like tickle sex and they'll say slavery is working
for someone, you know, like they, they, they just redefine those
things.
Yeah.
And it's just putting, putting that then in that, like that
framework of what Josh said, just to say, like, and like, it's
just, you cannot go down that street and come out without getting
whooped up.
It's just, yeah, it's crazy.
Dr. Bird, your, your facial reaction was quite visceral to that
question.
Is there any way we could put it back on the screen?
Because I really, since I saw it, I, I really, because I think
everybody watching this, particularly the apologist watching
this need to hear from a woman, the scholarly woman, the
response to this charge, because we can say it all day long, but
we don't know what it's like to live in fear in a patriarchal
society.
We just don't as men.
So would you please just take a couple minutes and respond to
that?
I greatly appreciate it.
Okay, I'll try.
First of all, it just, it's the, the more I think about it, it's
like, I'm going to start crying.
Like it just, it undoes me the way people take this kind of
take this concept of rape so casually.
And you can talk about, like, I mean, we've come, we've come at
this a couple of different ways and times in this, in this session,
in this panel and, you know, the, the, the way that even to this
very day, people, there are, I don't, I don't hate men, but there
are males in legislative positions who even at the beginning of the
21st century were not allowing the passage of, of laws that would,
that would define the possibility of a man raping his wife.
Like, so, so when I hear, you know, so when I read something like
this, I just, I don't defend rape.
Just that.
What is that?
Do you understand what you're saying?
You know, I don't know how, how much you want me to, which part of
this to respond to because, because it's a big deal to me.
It's a part of what I did in my dissertation in my graduate school
work was looking at the way that's biblical, the biblical texts,
essentially numb people to abuse of various kinds and violence to
women's bodies.
And in particular domestic, domestic, interpersonal, intimate
personal violence, those kinds of things.
Like that's what I wrote about for my dissertation is there's a
passage in 1st Peter that tells women to stay in abusive relationships.
Like, you know, what are, you know, all of the different things
going on in scripture that tell, that teach us to view certain
humans as not fully equal, like as not fully human.
And, you know, and I very much appreciated listening to the men on
this panel talking about this issue in the Hebrew Bible and your
sensitivities to gender issues.
I really did.
And then it just hit me in the face when this question popped up.
I don't know that I'm actually giving, responding in the way that
you were hoping, Josh.
That's what you're saying is important.
And yeah, if I could, because like I would love to hear you talk
about this for another hour and I sit here and listen, I mean that.
But like to be very specific with when it comes to this.
Okay.
So often this comes up in Deuteronomy 21.
And for anybody that doesn't know Deuteronomy 21 10 to 14 is the
passage about the captive bride.
And so the way that the law reads, it says, if an Israelite sees
among the captives, and this is following in the context of Deuteronomy
20, which says everybody in Canaan, kill them.
Everybody outside of Canaan, they either become your vassals and
they become Corvée labor.
Or if they resist, you kill all the men and the women and the
children in the cattle, your plunder.
Okay.
If in the latter, latter group, among these female captives, these
virgin women, you see one that you like and want to marry.
And I think the idea here is you want to have a legal heir produced
from them.
I don't think this in any way, and I don't think people like
Carolyn Press or anybody else would say that this in any way
precludes battlefield rape.
But just assuming maybe for the second, the apologies that it does,
let's say this is a better, anyway, it doesn't matter, that this
woman, who is a captive, whose family you have just slaughtered,
you take this woman, and again, I know you know this, but for the
audience, you shave her head, trim her nails, change her clothing.
She gets a full month, a whole month, people.
Anybody hear that?
Thirty days to mourn her slaughtered parents and probably siblings.
And only then can you go in and have sex with her and she'll become
your wife.
Now, what they will say to this on so many more occasions that I
would care to admit, they will say, well, what else would they do?
What are they just going to leave them there to starve?
The women would be.
This is such a great thing for them.
And in fact, if you look in some of these ancient Eastern context,
they'll actually pretty themselves up so that they're more attractive.
And I just, the picture that I get is from the Holocaust movie that is
the name I'm blanking on.
Jenler's List.
Where the women in the concentration camp are trying to make themselves
look less pale so that they won't be killed.
And these, these are the arguments that come out.
Well, what else is, this is a great thing for them in that context.
Could you please react as, as, as someone who lives in a patriarchal
society that is a woman?
Gosh, what, you know, which angle should I take?
Um, I, I'm like, oh, this is being recorded on happened to know my parents
are watching like, fuck you.
That's my first response.
Like, okay.
Like, do you really not think that we could manage on our own?
Thank you very much.
But then there's also the other issues of right the way that you do
actually survive when you're in a city and all the, the economic
exchange and all that kind of stuff.
But, you know, like, I don't, I don't even know where to start with
that.
Um, I really don't, I'm sorry.
I'm just trying to think how, how can I contribute in a productive way
here?
Um, can you, can we come back to it?
I don't know how to, I don't know how to say it.
I think, I think, you know, I honestly think you've answered it.
Okay.
I think that response answered it because like, fuck you is exactly
the answer that I think men need to hear that are apologists.
And if like Google is free, as he then Queen always says, Google is free.
If you want resources, email us, we will give you all kinds.
Dr. Bird will give you books upon books and articles upon articles.
If you want to read about, you know, the way that we should be viewing
the biblical text from a, from a woman's perspective, for example,
like we are here for you, but shut the fuck with this bullshit.
As Joe Baden says, miss me with that shit.
That's, uh, I'm going to clip that.
That was great.
Um, that it's true though.
It's true.
And you, you off forget that like that, you know, that thank God, you know,
you've, you've, you've been on the show before.
Um, or thank Neil deGrasse Tyson.
I usually say, uh, Dr. Joe, she'd been on the show before and you talk
about the conquest of, of, uh, the Israelites and all that stuff.
Thank Neil deGrasse Tyson that likely most of that didn't happen.
Um, historically, or at least parts of it.
Um, but the same people who want us to believe it did happen and that they did
kill the infant boys and they take the virgin girls and all, all those things
want us to believe that it was a good thing.
Yeah.
It's just, you have to remember these if, if, if they want us, if people
want us to believe that these were true living, breathing, feeling, thinking,
touching people with, with personalities and dreams and ambitions who were just
murdered at the hands of murdered and taken as prisoners of war and slaves.
Uh, let's forget about the bad guys.
Let's just think about their children.
Like, I mean, yeah, it's, um, it's another thing.
I could go on another, I could go on a monologue, but I'll save it for a time
when we're on deep drinks and I've had a bit to drink.
Um, that's usually what's the best.
Um, I'll, uh, does anyone else have anything to mention
before I jump to the next super chat?
Uh, important topics.
Uh, sorry, we've already had that one.
Do any of the colleagues side with these apologists defending these things?
How much is it in academia?
Way more than we'd all like to be able to, than you might believe.
Oh, wow.
Yeah, it is actually, there are.
I think, I think, I think it's.
So I think there's, there's going to be a disconnect between a lot of things
like the way the scholars talk within the academy, um, to other scholars
and the way they would talk about it in media and apologetic things
or in churches or whatever.
And so, and this is, this is like, uh, something I think that a lot of people
that haven't gone to an academic, uh, institution wouldn't know about,
but that like, you can have a professor who is, is actually quite,
quite conservative in the religious context.
Um, that would, that would never say like that Moses didn't exist
or they exist and happen or whatever, but then we'll come in and tell you
in class that there was no Moses and that there was no exodus or,
I mean, they would say the consensus position is this
and they're here are the reasons and this is what you need to know
and, and we'll never second guess it, but, but they feel the need to,
to talk about the Bible differently when they're in front of non-educated people.
And, and, and so then there's this, this disconnect between what they do
in the setting of the academy and in the setting of the church or whatever.
And, and so I think that's where like a lot of us actually don't know
where a lot of our colleagues are about these kind of things
because I think in, in academic settings, they're quite often
careful to not, um, expose themselves as, as, as Yahweh would say.
Um, it is, yeah, it is pretty cool.
I had a, I had a front row seat to this, some of this kind of stuff.
Um, when I, so the very first time I was in Israel,
I was working at the, um, the shrine of the book, which is where they,
they keep the Cape One, uh, Dead Sea Scrolls with Professors Eugene Ulrich
and Peter W. Flint.
Um, and while we were there, uh, Simka Yakovic, Simka Yakovic.
You remember this guy?
He was filming his, uh, his TV show, The Naked Archaeologist,
and came into the vault to interview, uh, Peter and Jean.
And it was, it was remarkable to watch in real time because the,
the, the scholar hats came off as soon as he turned the camera on.
The Apologist hats went on and they talked for 10 minutes about,
you know, uh, Moses writing the Torah and,
and how much confidence we can have in, in the preserved text and,
and you know, all this kind of stuff.
And then as soon as he left, it was like, we take that off and we put
the other one back on.
It was, yeah, it's, it's real.
You know, I can also just say part of my reaction was that,
you know, I started PhD work at a particular institution and I was
asked within the first month or two, I had a professor pull me aside
and say, are you sure you're going to be a good fit here?
You're asking questions.
We just don't ask.
And so I did transfer, right?
But so all of, and I was grateful to be able to transfer, also
grateful for the time there, but for the perspective it gave me,
but they did destroy my critical thinking, um, in that those three
semesters of PhD work in their approach to things, I should say
they, I felt dead inside and I hadn't, I couldn't use my critical thinking
anymore.
But my point is there are plenty of highly respected PhDs and biblical
studies who are doing positivistic scholarship.
And that to me goes hand in hand with an apologetic kind of a stance.
It's not the same thing for sure, but they didn't want me raising the
question in the Psalms seminar about the fact that when you praise a God
who is, who is an Avenger, that means you are going to be an Avenging
people.
They didn't want me making that kind of an observation, right?
Um, that kind of stuff.
So I think that's, you know, especially in newer Testament studies, I
don't go to the sessions that are full of people who are positivistic
scholars, but there are plenty of them and they tend to be, you know,
very large sections, you know what I mean?
So it's anyway, that's just kind of my tidbit on that.
And I do want to point out sort of to, to, to make sure we tie this to the,
the slavery aspect here.
Cause I suspect that the question may be coming from a different
direction.
I agree with all of you, by the way, I think that's spot on.
Um, but so that it's clear when it comes to slavery, like in, in the
ancient Near East or in the Hebrew Bible, that this is not a debate.
Right.
Like even if you read somebody very evangelical, like the professor
emeritus, um, um, Dick Averbeck out at Trinity, like he's got in, in,
um, in that book, like behind the scenes of the Old Testament, I think is
the, the name of the, the volumes evangelical, mostly evangelical
writers, I think in it, but he's got a section like explaining slavery
that there's like one thing, maybe two things that he would disagree
with me on, but they're, they're more minor.
Like when we talk about things like debt and chattel slavery, like
Jay Caballero came on, uh, who's getting ready to finish his PhD under
Bruce Wells, ancient Near Eastern and Hebrew Bible law legal specialist
down at the university of Texas, Austin, and he's writing on sex crimes.
He's the one that, that proofread my chapter on rape and adultery in the
Hebrew Bible.
Um, and he came on to Derek Smith vision podcast and was like, why is
anybody debating the reality of slavery and the laws of the Hebrew Bible?
Of course there's debt, chattel and sex slavery.
What, why would that be a debate?
So I think everybody needs to understand this, that the, the data points
on this topic almost universally agreed upon.
It's the interpretive model that some more evangelicals are saying as like
we were talking about earlier, Dr. Bird, like, um, God's condescending and
that explains those data points.
And then the, the seeming possible slight movement toward, you know,
slavery, bad and the New Testament, maybe that explains the trajectory.
Uh, but again, nobody's arguing whether Leviticus 25, 44 to 46, everybody
in the audience, uh, means chattel slavery reporters.
That's not up for debate.
I'm just going to, I'm just because I know that everyone's got to go at some
stage.
Otherwise I'll stay here all day.
I'm going to just keep hope.
But I'm putting up super chats.
Um, if you see them and want to respond to them, that's great.
But we just, we've got so many to get through.
And I thank everyone who did super chat.
Really appreciate it.
If we can't get to your super chat.
I've tried.
Um, but, uh, yeah.
So this one's a good one from public engineering on the indigenous servitude.
The common apologetic is that it was a solution to poverty.
But Jacob uses, um,
used is to purchase Lebanon's two daughters, consent and matter.
That too is sexual slavery.
Denture servitude.
I asked.
I think the.
Sorry.
I think the death knell to this apologetic argument is what we see in
Deuteronomy 15 and Leviticus 25.
And what I mean by that is in both passages,
they're working against the covenant code, developing it.
And the, what one of the primary ways that they do it is they inject,
um, divine, uh, support or divine care.
So Deuteronomy 15. Hey, don't just set your slave free.
Give them all kinds of stuff,
which would be completely antithetical to the whole point of taking them as
an indentured servant, right?
Uh, and Leviticus 25.
Don't even treat them as a slave anymore.
Right.
The Israelites.
Um, but what is it that the tech says over and over and over again?
I will bless you.
I will bless you.
I will bless you.
How is it that you're going to be able to let the land life fallow every
seven years and still make it?
I'm going to super naturally intervene.
And the whole point of that is don't do this to my chosen people,
to each other.
And if you don't, don't worry about it, cause I'm going to come in
supernaturally and take care of it.
You have to then argue that God is limited somehow,
that he could only do this economically to support his own people.
He couldn't say, don't take slaves at all.
And I'll supernaturally provide like that's the argument that you have to
make.
And I think it's a no go.
Yeah.
I think that's pretty much all we have to say about that.
Yeah.
And that's all I have to say.
Sorry about that.
Have we, we haven't gone over this one, have we?
No, we haven't.
Can someone read this?
I'm not going to try and read this.
Given the crystal normativity in our societal institutions,
how do we create a social structure built on justice,
especially in the US where race based slavery is inextricably linked
to Christian colonization?
And also it's, yeah, perpetuated issues,
social issues in our, yeah, beyond just colonization,
but to this day, how that's affected communities and people,
unfairly.
Thank you, Cheryl.
The answer is just, we don't start by assuming that a 2000 year old
book is going to give the answer.
Yeah.
Thank you, Cheryl.
She was the first of the 12 Deep Drinks Disciples.
Yes.
The first 12 I kind of nice now.
I just have this thought going through my mind and this is about,
I don't know how helpful this is,
but I'm also really conscious of the fact that this,
the conversations about slavery are about the laws in the Hebrew Bible
and they're not, right?
I mean, the fact that it's, that the newer Testament isn't even being
invoked in this conversation or that people aren't aware of it.
And I mean, significant proportion of newer Testament scholars,
right, as well as just the general population.
I find it stunningly entertaining that the same conservative Christians
who actually don't like the Hebrew Bible are also only talking about
the Hebrew Bible, right?
In this conversation about slavery.
Anyway, I, you know, so I just need to back off because this really isn't
my, I'm not the person in this conversation.
But I, I think it's on point though.
And I think, I think, I mean, I learned, I learned so much just from
your presentation today, Jennifer.
And, and I, I feel like I have to read Glancy's book now.
It's excellent.
Yeah.
So, but I think, I think you're, you're touching on something that,
like on the one hand, I think this is a tacit acknowledgement that there's,
there's certainly, I think that everybody recognizes,
despite their rhetoric, that there is a problem within the text,
certainly within the Hebrew Bible text.
But then the fact that, that the New Testament never,
or very rarely sell the mentors this discussion, certainly on the same
level is because as you pointed out, I don't think we,
people even know or understand it enough to see what's going on there.
And also it's, it's a bit of an indictment that, you know,
there's nothing, there's nothing even remotely clear in there that you can
draw on to rehabilitate the clear problem that everybody is seeing
taking place within the Hebrew Bible text.
Yeah, 100%.
Thank you.
So, yeah.
Dr. Josh, I'm not too far from the University of Texas.
How would I go about looking at a Sumerian text to verify that there were
interrupted to show Noah's flood ever happened?
Interpreted, I think I'll interpret any books on this.
How would I go about looking at the Sumerian text to verify they were not
interpreted?
Maybe.
Oh, just, okay.
Sorry.
Does this mean that because throughout the third millennium,
we have a whole plethora of Kanaeiform texts,
both in Sumerian and Akkadian, that show that if the flood happened,
this worldwide flood happened in the middle of the third millennium as the
biblical timeline would indicate, at least under that interpretive model,
that it wouldn't have happened.
On that topic, if that's the question, on that topic specifically,
I don't know, but, and of course it's on one of my bookshelves downstairs,
Chen, YS Chen, has a book, I think it's a 2012.
And of course, I can't remember the title.
It has like flood in it.
But if you type in C-H-E-N into Amazon flood, you'll see it.
But essentially, the monograms of flood catastrophe.
Yes, that's it.
Thank you.
The book is about,
I think the best evidence from a literary standpoint that the Mesopotamian flood
does not reflect some actual catastrophic either regional or global event
is the fact that we don't have the flood tradition heading Mesopotamia
until the second, the beginning of the second millennium,
which is a huge deal because it shows up in the Sumerian and Akkadian texts
in that first portion of the second millennium.
So what you would have to argue is that the flood happened during 2500.
You have the whole Sargonic Empire from eight people in like 20 years.
But outside of that, if that's not enough of a problem for you,
that they waited 500 goddamn years before anybody wrote anything
about the whole world being flooded.
No, it was just like, let's sit on this one for a little bit
until we repopulate the whole world with this really wicked,
and then they're going to write about it.
And then we'll just wait another 1200 years before we write about it.
If that makes sense to you, it's possible.
It's possible.
It's possible.
Is it likely?
Sorry.
That's the answer.
Alan Bird wants us, once you guys, to publish a book with flashed out notes
from this and he'll buy it.
So there you go.
We've got at least one thumb game.
You're going to unpublish it, won't you?
So we'll leave that.
Oh, Megan loves editing.
Why don't we get Megan to do it?
She loves editing books.
She just loves it.
Would it be possible to read Numbers 31
as Yawa himself actually commanded a portion of the slaves for himself?
Under that interpretive model.
Sorry.
Yes.
Sorry to be quick.
I would say yes under that particular interpretive model because,
you know, the section that is given back to the Levites is like there's,
it's specifically commanded that a portion of the cattle,
a portion of, you know, the people, women, they go off.
I think specifically the tribe of Levi.
So I mean, yeah, under that interpretive model,
if you're reading it that way, if that would do it for you, I'd say yes.
Okay.
Since slave ownership is being discussed,
can someone speak on the Israelites not being able to own Ahusa?
Also, the Israelites, Ahusa foreigners.
Yes.
Now we're the Israelites.
So the Ahusa is the, this is the heritage that belongs to every,
every native Israelite, every B'nai Israel,
one of the members of the sons of Israel.
And it's explicitly pointed out within the text that the Ahusa,
like the land belongs to Yahweh.
It belongs to God.
And he has gifted every member of the covenant community a portion.
And the portion cannot transfer ownership to someone else.
Like it has to stay within the family.
And this is part of the reason for the Jubilee rules, right?
In order to ensure that the Ahusa, the inheritance,
everybody maintains maintenance of his share.
So I mean, that's what William's getting on the first verse.
Yeah, if the argument is that, well, because the land is ultimately Yahweh's,
therefore, Ahuza, just so everybody knows, Ahuza is the word that's used in 2540,
4 to 46 where it talks about the slaves will be your Ahuza.
And so if the connection is to try to argue that, well, the Ahuza,
the land is not actually the Israelites because they don't own it, Yahweh does.
So then the slaves aren't actually the Israelites, what they belong to Yahweh too.
Like, I mean, if you want to try to make that argument,
but the land gets kept and worked and passed down as inheritance.
So if you were a slave and you're working for that Israelite
and you don't get to leave and you get passed under their kids,
if you can go to sleep at night and say, but I know that I ultimately be gone to Yahweh.
So everything's okay.
Okay, buddy, you know, I love converse, like converse and our good friends.
I don't understand what he means by the Israelites are foreigners
and I suspect that there's an argument out there that there always is one
that's trying to like take some sort of peripheral thing.
Does this have something to do with treat your slaves nicely
because you were once foreigners in Egypt?
Is that what he's getting at?
Maybe, or it might be this whole Habiru thing.
Oh, yeah.
I don't know.
I'd have to.
One last question and then we'll wrap up.
Anybody read Glanville book on adopting foreigners?
Adopting foreigners.
I haven't read it yet.
It's a 2018 publication.
Yeah, it's on the monographs about like foreigners and assimilation.
I can't remember the specifics of it.
Trying to remember why I heard about it.
But in this context, sorry, I'm talking a lot.
You're getting through them.
It's good.
Yeah, we appreciate it.
I mean, I would hope after writing a couple books on this.
There is this apologetic that says like, as you were just saying,
Kip, right?
Like, well, foreigners are supposed to be love Leviticus 1933 34,
you know, and, and they're supposed to be one rule,
one law for the foreigner from the Israel.
And so, you know, they have to take care of their slaves,
whatever the foreigners.
And so maybe and here in Leviticus 25,
maybe bringing in these foreigners, you know,
because the term gear later on in Second Temple Judaism and later
Hebrew text takes on like the meaning or rabbinic text takes on
the meaning of like proselyte.
So maybe this is the goal of like trying to bring them in so that
you can bring them into the community.
Like again, whatever argument, you know,
comes from that they're still fucking slaves,
like stop, just stop everybody, whatever the goal is,
whatever the end result, like you would not want to be that person.
Please stop making apologetic arguments for it.
Thank you.
That's great.
So guys, I want to wrap up the conversation there.
Thank you so much for coming on.
I have one last thing to kind of talk about before we go.
That is everyone go check out permission granted.
The audible is read by Jennifer Bird.
It's amazing.
I really like it even as someone who doesn't really get a lot of
theological benefit from the Bible anymore as a non-Christian.
It still was amazing to read.
So it's great.
Amazing for both Christians and non-Christians alike.
Dr. Josh has a bunch of books on as well on Amazon.com.au.
The Atheist handbook to the Old Testament.
The end of volume one and two.
Learn to read ancient Sumerian.
Learn to pray in a dead language.
I don't know if there's any more of a niche,
the scholarly stuff than that.
That's really awesome.
That Sumerian book is the best seller by a factor of two.
Really?
I'm not kidding.
Really?
Well, that's cool.
Sell's funds.
Anyway, Dr. Kip Davis, his YouTube channel is just slamming.
I'm going through his stuff on the Dead Sea Scrolls.
We had a really interesting conversation over in Deep Drinks.
If you like Dead Sea Scrolls stuff and someone who's an active scholar,
go check out Dr. Kip Davis' YouTube channel.
Math Monger, we got you up from 90 something Twitter followers to 105.
You will be announcing something badass.
We hear this week.
Everyone should check that out.
The last thing I want to mention is I do have a patron.
If you like supporting his channel, please go over there and check it out.
Patreon.com slash Deep Drinks.
And in two days, we're interviewing,
this is going to be a really hard episode.
We're interviewing, I'm interviewing Pepe Julien Onzima.
You might know him from the clip, the viral clip online in Uganda.
It's like, why are you gay?
It's like a classic meme clip.
Why are you gay?
The story is though, there's a new anti-gay bill in Uganda.
He's an LGBT activist, a trans man,
and essentially by presenting non-binary,
just presenting non-binary now is punishable for up to 10 years in prison.
So, or being in a relationship or anything like that.
So we're going to be talking about his journey,
what we can do, and bringing awareness to this horrible situation.
So if you like content like this, Bible scholar stuff,
human rights talking stuff, please subscribe to Deep Drinks.
And thank you guys for all coming out.
It's been an absolutely wonderful panel.
Hopefully next time my camera won't break.
Thank you, David, for all the work you did to make this happen.
You were working your way at it consistently for the last month.
So I appreciate that.
Thank you.
I wanted to make this as good as possible.
And make sure everyone, guys,
you can download the accompanying PDF,
which will have a lot of the arguments there.
I want, guys, also, please, everyone has full permission
to clip sections out of this for yourself.
Do a little commentary over them and just get this out.
The idea behind this is I'm so sick.
How this started is I messaged Josh and said,
I'm so sick of this Bible slavery argument still floating around.
It's bullshit.
It's ridiculous.
This is not hard stuff.
And then Dr. Josh said, should I bring Kip?
And then I said, oh, we should do the panel.
We're portable.
We're doing the panel.
And then Dr. Josh put all this together.
So thank you, Dr. Josh, especially.
And thank you, Matt, for staying up so late.
Thank you, everyone, for coming on.
I really appreciate it.
It's been wonderful.
So I'll see you all you guys later.
And I'm sure I'll see a few more of you
on Deep Drinks in the future on one-on-one interviews.
So see you.
Bye, guys.
Awesome, guys.
Bye.
Bye.
