Welcome, everyone, to Deep Drinks Podcast. My name is Dave and we have a very exciting
episode for you today. My guest today, his name is Dustin. He's also known as non-elkamist.
He's a former Christian. He loves discussing philosophy, the Bible,
and undermining religious fundamentalism. Welcome, the non-elkamist. How are you doing?
I'm doing well. How are you, David? Very good. Very, very good. The audio keeps
peaking when I turn it off. It's really, streaming out seems to get their stuff together.
You can still hear me okay, though, right? Yeah, I can still hear you fine. How's everyone doing?
It's good to see everyone in the chat. It's great to be here. This is going to be,
this is going to be a fun episode because I really relate to your content. I really like the
way you think. And to be honest, I just asked you on this show because I really just genuinely want
to have a conversation with you. And I guess that's the case for most guests, but there's no,
there's no book we're trying to sell. There's no, there's nothing like that. I'm just really
want to sit down and have a conversation with you. So very excited to chat.
Okay. One thing I did want to mention before we get started is you do, I do want to shout out
your YouTube channel. So guys, if you haven't, if you guys haven't checked this out, can you tell
us a little bit about your YouTube channel? Sure, goes by the non alchemist. Basically,
I have a YouTube channel dedicated to upsetting people. Not really. So it's, it is dedicated. So
the main goal that I have is to undermine what I take to be religious fundamentalism.
And when I started out, I think I sort of conceptualized what that would look like a little,
look like a little bit differently than I do now. Because when I, some of the early stuff I did,
I would do more stuff about like Bible, not like a ton of them, but I did stuff like Bible
contradictions. And like, I feel like as I've developed, I've realized that I think the most
significant thing I can do, you know, to undermine what I take to be fundamentalism is to just
sort of normalize atheism and skepticism, rather than just being like, oh, there's enough people,
you know, debunking Ken Hoven, you know, stuff like that.
Like, because I think one thing is, you know, the tagline is undermining religious fundamentalism.
And then people are like, well, why did you just make a video called Jesus is dead? Like,
why are you attacking Christianity? And it's like, well, because I think part of the most damaging
thing about fundamentalism, at least within like a religious context, is an overly dogmatic attitude
towards something that really, with the evidence we have, you shouldn't be overly dogmatic about.
And especially with like the sweeping claims that typically go along with what you're saying.
So anyway, that's a, that's a short little spiel about that. But one thing I wanted to,
wanted to ask that's really, really important. And this is actually a silly question is,
how many tickles does it take to make an octopus laugh?
I don't know. I don't even know where you're going with that.
10 tickles.
Hey, we're, we're drinking, we're, we're drinking vodka. Okay. Well, it's eight o'clock. It's,
it's eight p.m. here. So I've already, I've already had a few. So okay. Well, yeah, I've,
I've got my vodka ready to go. Well, I haven't poured it yet, but I'll pour it now. I'm at the
start of my work day, to be honest. So yeah, this, this will be fun. You know, I work as a video
editor. So a bit of an acceptable to day drink in Australia, maybe not at work, but I work from
home. So let's, let's get this going. So I've got my, I've got lemon lime move it is, and I'm mixing
it with vodka. And so I'm sure it'll be good. Captain Deadpool D. Hi, everyone. Hi in the chat.
Hang for She. It's good to see everyone. So I guess my first question is you grew up a Christian,
right? Well, let me, I have to say something about my drink as well, because I have, I have,
I have Tito's and I have mixed it with a mango white claw because I'm extremely manly. So I just
wanted to know. Nice. Nice. Nice. So yeah, you grew up a Christian, right? Yes. What kind of
Christian were you? So growing up, that kind of changed, depending like over the over time,
I would say broadly sort of within pop evangelicalism was the evangelical, I guess you would say,
but I've seen the contours of that I've seen. I've seen sort of charismatic, like briefly,
the charismatic side with vineyard churches, what we went to a vineyard church, and my parents
were like, this is a cult. And then, because I actually, I heard some of your story on,
on Mithijan. So you grew up a little bit more charismatic, I believe. So yeah, had to kind of
call foolish, right? So I mean, I have had like a little bit of a flavor event, but it was,
we went to, you know, like Bible, there was a Bible church we went to.
There was trying to remember all that there was like a first Christian, you know, first Christian
church, wherever, you know, those kinds of churches, trying to think if I have, you know,
Southern Baptist, I've seen like that landscape growing up. The last stop was one of the more
non-denominational first Christian churches. So yeah, that's, that's sort of the trajectory
growing up. And I actually thought, so just to put this into perspective of how sort of mixed
bag is was, you know, how like the, did you ever read like the left behind books at all?
I knew, I think I saw parts of the movies. I never, I never did read the books or anything.
I wasn't like big on, on that rapture stuff. Yeah. So when I, when I was older, I kind of grew out
of that and was never obsessed with it. But when they were like a big thing, you know, my mom was
reading them. And I just thought about this the other day. And I, if I like blocked it out of my
mind, but my, I never read like the adult books, but my grandma bought me like left behind for kids.
And there's like this massive, there's this massive series of just a lot of small books.
I don't know how many there are, but I was just thinking about that the other day. And I was like,
man, like, I haven't thought about this in years. But yeah, so that was sort of a part of the mix.
I guess in high school, you know, age, I was the kind of person that would wear like the
blood donor, save your life kind of t-shirts, you know, it's, you know, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
swag. I used to have a lot of, I loved, I loved the Christian swag, to be honest. I just, I,
you know, I even made my own t-shirts like, like I would bleach across in the back of like black
t-shirts and stuff. And I was like, and I'd write, there is only one way and all this stuff on the
trunk. I didn't go as far as actually making my own t-shirts, but I did. Well, at least in the
United States, some high schools will, they'll issue you like a planner. And so I take, there's
like this artwork, I don't know what it's called, but there's this picture of Jesus is picking this
guy up. He's like, despondent. And Jesus, oh yeah, I taped that like onto the front of my planner
and people wouldn't make fun. Yeah, yeah. That's so good. I've seen the juggalo version of that
where someone's like painted on like juggalo, like ICP face paint onto the guy. And they're like,
they go to the gathering of the juggalos. You'd be like, ICP kind of concert. And they try and
save juggalos there. And which I think is pretty funny. So, so how did you go from, so did you
ever speak in tongues or anything like that? Were you like the kind of Christian that was in the
spirit? So I not growing up, but when I kind of dabbled within, so growing up, I was in the more
evangelical circles, but not those kind. But then I kind of made a turn to more Calvinistic beliefs.
And at the time, it was like the new, you know, the young restless reform people. So like Mark
Driscoll. And so there's, there's people within that, those circles that were popularizing,
not really, but they were, they were making continuationism or some form of not quite as,
you know, Pentecostal as the Calvinist would be scared of, but like just enough to where, you know,
people would think like, okay, there's arguments to be made from scripture that this is certain
kinds of things are continuing, maybe at a minimum, this is a private prayer language or something.
So there was a time, like even John Piper, I think, was a continuation as he just wasn't as,
you know, he wasn't just as upfront about it as other people were. But so I experimented with it,
like as within private, I dabbled, but it didn't really take. So it was, I was like, I don't think
I have this gift. So whatever it is. Interesting. So I actually have friends and family that are
moving away from Pentecostal Christianity into something akin to Calvinism at the moment.
I actually have no idea what Calvinism is, except for like a few kind of broad concepts
that I know. Can you please explain what Calvinism is? And was that the kind of last part of your
journey out? Or was that? Yes. Yes, it was. Well, I mean, it depends. So
so there's a narrow sense of Calvinism, which is like the five points of Calvinism,
where it's basically like total depravity, unconditional election, limited atonement.
See if I remember all these from a long time ago,
irresistible grace, perseverance of the saints. So it's like a system of what salvation looks like,
where it's basically God's, even though, I mean, there's different, there's more extreme versions,
but the Calvinists will want to say that the act of being saved or salvation is God's unilateral
act in a very major way. So like they will want to say, so that they're compatibilist. So they
think that, you know, freedom is compatible with determinism in some way that is okay. And there's
atheists that are compatibilists, too. They don't believe God is pulling the strings in a way.
So it's not. So compatibilism, as such, is not just like a Calvinist thing. There's a lot of
philosophers who think compatibilism is true. They just don't add God in the ontology of that.
But yeah, so basically the gist of Calvinism is God is, it's like an analogy would be,
and this is over, this is making it more soft and fluffy than it really is. But they will want to
say something like you, your kid is running out into the street, you don't just say like, come
back, you grab them by the scrub of their neck and yank them out of the way. Like that. So they
conceive of grace that way. But then of course, you know, the question is, okay, so God does that
with some people and others. And what does that mean? Like, why is that the case? So you're saying
that God is perfectly loving. But he's just, he's damning some people and not others based on his
just choice based on what, you know, for his glory. So there's a lot of other problems with that
you could point out. But I'm just trying to, you know, steal man Calvinism and the way that they
would probably try to explain it is what I'm trying to do. So yeah, I mean, some of these friends
that I have, they once told me that they prayed for someone who had like 50 50 chance of beating
their cancer with chemo. And their results came back quite favorably. And they said, how can anyone
deny the miracles of God now? And now they don't believe in miracles. So it's like, it's like,
I'm like, wait, so you deny it now? Like, like, this is only like a few years ago. So it's interesting
how, or they don't believe in tongues, but I'm like, that some of the people in the movement
believe in tongues, like did engaged in tongue. So I don't, it's, it's, it's confusing to me.
So these are the people that are becoming Calvinists that are like, stop. Okay. So
is there like a strip? Because there's so the narrow version of Calvinism is what I just described.
But there's also like the reform tradition, which is way more broad, which has to do with
like the way the church is structured and different things. So I don't know what is there
a certain denomination or like sect? To be honest, I think it's, I think it's one of those
non denominational type churches that kind of, to be honest, I'm not 100% sure. I just know that,
that their beliefs are shifting quite dramatically from what I considered to be quite open and cut
from what we used to subscribe to. And I mean, yeah, it's just, it just, it's just very interesting.
Like, I remember sitting there, one time I've had a conversation with a Calvinist and I want to have
more, but I just can't find many. But I sat down and I said to a Calvinist, like, how can you
deny, you know, miracles and, and all this stuff? Or I, he said, they said to me
that they believe in a God, and I don't know if the, I don't know if they'll, what type of
Calvinists they were, but they believe in a God that creates someone destined to go to hell.
So they have no other option but to go to hell. Like that, like they're pre, they'll
predeterminists in some way in that someone, people either got born to go to hell or go to
heaven. And that's like predetermined. And I said, well, that seems like quite cruel,
like what the God that you believe in, it seems quite cruel. And then he pointed out to me that
the God I believe in seems quite cruel because what kind of a God can heal some people, but not
others. And what kind of person says they can heal people. And then they, with the power of God,
and on that side of a hospital every second of every day. Yeah, I think that's, so not all
some Calvinists are more charismatic, which is why, so it's not that it's not necessarily,
it sounds like you're talking to a very specific kind. Because it's, yeah, because it means some,
there are some charismatic Christians that accept like the five points of Calvinism that I just
sort of explained where it's still God's unilateral action, but they think that God is
working miracles in the same way you probably did before. Maybe not as extreme, but yeah, so it's
not like Benny Hin miracles. No, well, not like on those. So some of them might say,
God does do like heal people in cancer and does those kinds of things, but not in this showy
way where people are walking down the aisle and you know, you know, whatever that is. I was,
I was kind of joking, because like one of the things I saw within like the charismatic
the vineyard churches, like it wasn't as crazy as probably some of the stuff you described that I
remember you saying to Derek, but it's like people are praying over people and they're just making
this weird hand movement over behind people's heads, like as they're praying for him. It's like,
what is this accomplishing? Like, I don't know what this is, but yeah. So anyway, Calvinism.
I can touch on that a little bit because like if I can step back into the old minds that I used to
have those like hand movements and stuff, it's all very, for me, at least it was all very
it's a mathematical is it was very, very much was an expression of how I felt on the inside.
And he kind of went with what your body kind of felt. So I mean, this one time I told this,
I did a preach and every time when I would say the power of God come down to the room
was after I told a bunch of preaching stories about the power of God. So it's like, I look at it now,
it feels like priming, like I'm, and I remember jumping off stage once and I would have been 18
youth, youth building, probably 70 people. And I ran up and I grabbed like for some reason,
I'd never do this, but you know, you'd normally pray for someone you put your hand on their
shoulder or whatever. But I ran off and I grabbed this, this youth who was the same age as me,
actually. I still remember his name is remember who he is, I won't say it, but I grabbed his face
like this, like I just grabbed it. And he immediately flew back, like he just went back,
people catch him. And it was like this real like power of God moment, but like I felt
inclined to like, grab him by the face, it was weird. Or other moments, you know, it'd be,
I had moments where I just have my arm around someone who was drunk and praying for them to
sober up and they sobered up and things like that. And you know, there's, there's moments where,
where you kind of just go with how you're kind of feeling. But other times, like sometimes that
would work and other times it wouldn't. So I remember going to church one time, and this lady
obviously felt called to do this, but they came up and they hugged me from the front. So like
they were falling like bare hugging me from the front and like looking up at me, it's like lady.
And I was just like, I didn't want to breathe on them. Right. And I was just like, I just felt like
this is too intimate for me. And they just wouldn't let go. They just hugged me,
smiled at me and just wouldn't let go. And was like praying for me. And I remember thinking like,
I don't like this. I still remember the awkward feeling that I had. And I was like, is this from
God? Like, so, you know, it was kind of, it's very much you go with the, with the spirit. And that's,
I think, where the idea of like prayer flags come from and dancing and singing and, and, you know,
I'm, I don't, I don't think I'm tone in depth, tone depth, but I'm definitely tone in bed and
I would sing all the time. I would sing in tongues or, you know, and you just kind of go with the
vibe. And I think your vulnerability in doing things like that actually gives, lets people
open up in their own way. And so it's like this, this, like this fire that you just keep stoking,
you let go of a little bit of your ego. So you do something that seems crazy. Someone else is
inspired by it. They go with what they're doing and it just keeps, keeps going.
Yeah, because like a social phenomenon that just, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So how did you go from whatever
you, you were to Calvinist? It was a combination of things. It was a combination of, again,
sort of being exposed to the movement. There was a movement within evangelicalism
towards more Calvinistic theology for a time, because there was more popular preachers like
John Piper and Tim Keller and different people like that. And I was given, there's a book by
John Piper called Don't Waster Life and my aunt and uncle gave me that for my graduation for high
school. And at the time I had like zero sympathy towards Calvinism at all. But the book was more,
the book was like a, you know, all it was, was a sell your life out for Jesus book,
like a really, really well written, like sell your life out for Jesus book. Like,
you know, he, there's like the famous thing where he's like, you know, you don't want to be
retiring and counting seashells. You know, I don't know if you're familiar with John Piper,
but like he's, he's like, just this huge like vision of like what the Christian life could be
and how like self sacrificial and like all these like kind of global sentiments. And like as a
young person, I was like, I want to be a Christian like that, even if this guy's stupid about Calvinism,
like that, he's got this right. And so that didn't make me, I didn't, I wasn't just like,
oh, no, I'm a Calvinist. It was more just, okay, not all of these people are like nuts,
because at the time I was like, this is the theology, like as you described sounds extremely cruel.
So, but, but I'm like, how does, so I had some cognitive distance with that. And then
it was a combination of there's that and then also I started reading the Bible a lot more,
like sort of not cover to cover every year, but it was, it was a lot like compared to,
I think a lot of people. So I guess roughly cover to cover for a while. But
so there's the, because the Bible is the way it is, and it's not univocal, it doesn't speak with
one voice. If you, if you come at it thinking it does speak with one voice, then you have to harmonize
a lot of passages. And so there's a lot of passages that sound very Calvinist.
You know, you could say there's a lot that, that don't too. But if you, if you come at it,
and like, I have to systematize this, I have to make this all fit in a way that makes sense.
Then I don't think it's, well, first of all, I think it is, you shouldn't do that because that's
not what it is. You shouldn't, like, it's a collection of texts written over thousands of years,
and it's dumb to try to systematize it in a way that people do. But, you know, if you come at it
with that assumption, there's a lot of texts that could be read through a certain kind of lens.
And really, that's one of the things that actually helped me sort of step back and be like,
is this really divinely inspired in the first place? Because over time, I could, because there's
doing different, I guess what you'd call control passages for different theologies. So there's
certain, there's a lot of data in the Bible. And so there's certain verses that seem clear
to some groups than others. And so each group sort of latches on to the sort of
set of verses that seems clearest to them. And then they interpret the other verses in light
of those verses. And so you end up, you end up flattening other texts, because you've chosen
a set of control verses to interpret through which to interpret those other texts. And so
I don't know the exact process. But yes, I started to see a lot of this sort of,
sort of, you know, very Calvinist sounding verses. And I was like, maybe, man, like,
some of this actually does sound compelling. And not because I really wanted it to be true. It was
more at the time, I thought I was just like, if this is true, then I got to do, I got to go with
it, you know, because that's, so it was kind of like that. And then you sort of trick yourself
into thinking like, Oh, this is glorious, you know, God is this untamed being, you know, because
you have to, you have to like assuage the cognitive dissonance somehow. It's like, well,
God's like this untamed lion, like the CS Lewis, like Aslan, like, you know, figure, and he just
has all this control and, you know, his ways are higher than my ways. Maybe I'll understand one
day, like you just have to start doing that. Basically, so. And how long ago was this that
you started to like, get up to this part in your life and eventually deconstruct?
Um, I think I, it's, it's hard to remember the exact, I think I was around 26 when I ended up
either, I guess, because there was, my process of deconverting was a little bit
messy. It was initially having a lot of doubts. And then sort of withdrawing, my wife was still
going to church. And then I sort of had a short bounce back, where I was like, okay, you know,
I just, I can just throw out, I can, I can deconstruct some of these beliefs that I think
are false and sort of try to build something else up. Because it doesn't mean, you know,
because these beliefs are false, doesn't mean Christianity is false.
Thanks. I am a nerd. But anyway, so I had, I had the, I lost my train of thought. No, thanks,
Kevin. Sorry, I shouldn't do that. I don't normally post up comments, but I was like,
it's funny. Yeah, yeah. So what was I said? You had a bounce back. Yeah, yeah. Right. So I had
a bounce back. So I was basically, I was thinking that I really did lose my train of thought.
I'm easily distracted. So am I. So I've lost what my question was. Oh, yeah. How long ago was
it? So you were about 26. How, how old are you now? Like, okay, so, okay, here we go. I regained it.
So I thought, I thought that, okay, I can, I can deconstruct this. And I can, I can build. So
all these views that I take to be like, how did I ever believe this? Because I, you know, I can,
I can put those aside and sort of build something else that's maybe somewhat similar,
maybe different in different ways. So it's like, I wanted to give my chance, give myself a chance
to reconstruct something. Because it's like, I went through a phase where it's like, you know,
just because you realized, because the bottom of the barrel, the bottom of the barrel for like
Calvinism, at least, confessional varieties is like, if you take the doctrines to their logical
conclusion, like, confessional Calvinism believes like an original sin to the point where Adam's
guilt is imputed onto the human race so that so that like babies that are born are actually born,
like guilt, like guilty in a sense. And so it, if you follow the logic all the way through,
you come to the realization and like, okay, on my system, it would be fair for like,
you know, a small child to literally like wake up into eternal conscious torment or something,
like a baby that really has not had any kind of conscious experiences that like mean anything
to their brain, you know, they die. Like on my system, like they could just like wake up
to eternal conscious torment. And I'm just like, I was just like, I've gone wrong somewhere.
Like some like, this is insane. Like, so. So you're saying that like, under that perspective,
it's like, say a baby dies during trial birth, and they just, they haven't even opened their eyes
yet. Yes. And they wake up in the fiery pits of it. So some, what Calvinists want to say is that,
well, that's not actually what happens. Like that that's fair. So it's not. So what I'm not,
I'm not saying that that all Calvinists say that that God does that. But what I'm saying is that
the implication of taking the views to the logical conclusion is that if he were to do that,
there'd be nothing wrong with it. So that's right. So so that itself to me is a problem. It doesn't
matter whether you say, Oh, God doesn't actually like do that. It's like, well, according to the
system you've laid out, if he did, it would be fine. And it's like, I feel like, if I know anything
at all, that's not right. Like something I've gone wrong somewhere. So anyway, my, you might hear
my dogs barking a little bit, I might mute myself. But it's either it's either my dogs bark because
my wife asked me before this, they do want me to take the dogs outside. And the reason I said no
is because if she takes the dogs outside, my cat, my cat is going to start screaming because the
dogs are outside and those are her children. So I basically have a better chance of interrupt,
like not being interrupted if I just leave the dogs inside and let them bark at stuff.
The cat will literally start screaming and I won't be able to make her stop. I'll have to
just keep snapping my fingers to the side. Oh, wow. Cats are weird things, right? Like I love,
I used to have cats and got dogs and stuff. So just just just going back to that, the problem
that the problem that I see is on the flip side, right? So, you know, there are groups of Christians
who say that children are innocent. And therefore, if a child dies, they get they get stamped, they
go straight to heaven. But I see that as like, I see that as like a problem in itself. So let's
say there is a, let's use the same example, I'm sorry to get really morbid on everyone,
but like, let's say there is a child that might die in childbirth. And the mother has a choice
whether to risk her life to save the child or to just try the best, but the child's most likely
going to die in this childbirth scenario that we've invented in our head, right?
Let's say that this is the case. Well, in what way would it ever be under the paradigm that
children go to heaven? In what way would it ever be a good idea to birth that child into existence?
Because you've gone from a like 100% chance of entering heaven for eternity. And you're risking
that by letting them come of age and possibly becoming sinful and ending up in hell.
This opens up the other can of worms, which is on the other side of it.
So think of it this way, a lot of Christians think that like zygots are persons or something
like that. So if that's true, and we know the statistics of like, all the pregnancies that
don't get a term, like what's the population of heaven going to be? It's going to be like,
half or more people that never had any experiences, never had any kind of like,
and so, okay, so to me, what that sounds like is, you know, when you say free will is really
valuable, when you say soul building is really valuable, and you have half of heaven's, over
half of heaven's population, but well, because you've got like, the pregnancies that never went to
term, and then you have throughout human history, all the children that died before any kind of
whatever you think of the age of accountability would be like small children that died constantly.
So if all this would be just like, kidding gotten, what they would probably say is like,
oh, they'll be exact like their mature age or some shit like that. But like, sorry.
You can swear. I guess I can't cuss on here. But so okay, so
you're the one that's telling me that free will and soul building are so infinitely valuable,
but on your own system, it sounds like it's not. So that's just another way to go about that other
than, so there's the calculation thing that you're making is, you know, what's wrong with abortion?
Something maybe is to have, you know, like, you can say, yeah, no, it's true. And I've, again,
I've spoken to family members who would say that if there was, if they could save a screaming toddler
or two, two fertilized eggs and petri dishes, they would choose the two fertilized eggs.
Which is like, which is, I mean, I don't know if they said this in, in, in jests, just to, to get
past the, they bit the bullet in this heated debate, like, I don't know if you actually
set them down, they would, they would really think about and say this, but like, yeah, like they,
it's, it's, it's wild. It's, it's very wild. Actually, funny, funny story, we're recently
camping with friends and family, and a friend said, why don't we have birthdays and why don't
we celebrate it, celebrate when the mother has become pregnant? And I said, it's probably has
something to do with the word birth. Anyway, but it's, I think it's the problem. You either have
babies that go to hell for dying prematurely before they've opened their eyes, or you have
all the logical conclusion is that it's best to actually murder every infant that you can.
Like that. There's actually a mother who, who was insane, but she did this. She murdered her four
children in the bathtub, drowned them all, because she was so scared that the world was going to
pollute them, and they would end up in hell. What they would probably say, so that this, I'm just
going to try to like, play dumb. What they would say is like, well, you know, my, my Christianity is
not a consequentialist Christianity, like I'm not going to just do things based on results. I'm going
to obey God and God says I shouldn't kill people. So I'm not going to kill. So, but like, they would
just say, oh, you're just appealing to results, but that's not the Christian life. It isn't just
doing things that appeal to results. It's trusting God and like, I'm not, you know, I'm not saying
there's not a problem there at all. I'm just saying that's probably, yeah, that's probably
what they would say, something like that. But, but again, that's still, even if they say that,
that's why I brought up the other thing about the, the free will and soul building thing, which is,
so even if you start with something that like you just said, you know, like, what's wrong with abortion?
Like, what, you know, what about in the situation? And they say, well, you know, I follow God, so I
would never do that. It's like, okay, but your other views still entail all these other problems.
So like, there's different ways to sort of poke at you, you think, there's different ways to poke
at the fact that they think most babies are going to heaven. One way is to do it, what the way you
just did. And another way is to say, well, literally the way you get out of the problem of evil,
is to say how good experience in this life is, in sort of preparing you for the next. And that's
why like, there's all this horrible stuff. But you have all these other views that seem to go at
least be, not necessarily contradict that, but are in extreme tension with that is how I would
say it. So there's, there's multiple ways to poke at people's views of children, you know,
however they want to cash it out within religion. But yeah, it's, it's a very touchy subject. I
remember, you know, just being, well, I want him, I want him to go into that. But, but so how did you
go? Well, I guess you eventually deconstructed. Like, I guess my question is, what were the emotional
impacts of deconstructing? Can you run us through that? And how, if you don't mind, how did you
have fair with your partner, your wife? Like, was that something that you had to deal with?
Do you have any advice for people? Well, before you even mentioned that, I was immediately like,
that's, that's the emotional problem that we really ran into is within our marriage. But
honestly, it after the dust had sort of settled, she was actually thriving more than I was actually
like initially, like, because there's like this initial period of tension where, you know, because
of the, you know, kind of more fundamentalist views that we had about like hell and different
things like that. She was worried about my eternal soul, obviously. And was very upset because I
withdrew and different things like that. And then, but after there's like a period where she kind of
gave her herself permission to question things, she, you know, I tried to, one of the things I
tried to do was to say, Hey, and then I guess this is my lead into the advice I would give is,
especially if you're within a sort of religious environment that has kind of strict beliefs,
is to, you can say, Hey, you know, you don't have to, because I de-converted and I wasn't a Christian,
you can say, Hey, there's other ways of being a Christian than the way that you,
we were a Christian before. Like, here's an example, like, here's Rachel held Evans or something,
like, here's a book, or here's Peter ends, like, here are these resources where
these people are still Christians, but, but they're still, you know, admitting that the
Bible has contradictions, like, and they still made it work with their faith and stuff like that.
So it's a way of saying, you know, you don't have to, even if you don't come with me in this,
like, there's ways for you to, you know, still believe something like this without
sort of the craziness that we, we were stupidly involved in. So I guess that, you know,
broadening someone's perspective about what Christian, especially if they're not, because
not everyone's going to be, I think that there's a, with some atheists, they think that like,
atheism is going to take over the world, you know, eventually. And I'm kind of skeptical. I think
religious, not necessarily like within sort of fundamentalist and like structural religion,
I just think that people, people will probably replace something with something else, you know,
eventually. So I'm just not, I'm not optimistic that like atheism as such is going to take over
the world. So, so that shapes how I interact with people that disagree with me. Like, I'm,
I'm typically like, even some, even in some of my videos, I sometimes will give, I'll be like,
okay, if you're a Christian, and you want to get out of this, here's a couple options for you,
you know, and some of the options are like, just give up on inerrancy. Like, you can still be a
Christian. So, you know, that shapes how I interact with people, I think. So I kind of rambled there.
I don't know if you wanted to ramble away. Like, I'm actually the same in that I'm not necessarily
like an atheist evangelist or anything. I don't, I don't, I don't think I don't care really. I care
about the consequences of what people believe in, in terms of like, are they voting against same-sex
marriage? Are they, do they think, you know, women should be refined to the kitchen, things like that.
But in regards to like their personal belief, I don't, I don't, I don't actually care. I'd love
if people could have a consistently, consistent worldview, and that they could articulate that.
And so maybe I'm wrong, and maybe I could learn about the one true God or something.
But I, but I'm not super, I'm not super bothered. So I actually, like, sometimes if someone's,
if I'm talking to someone and they're like, oh, I'm struggling with this evolution,
blah, blah, blah. And I'm like, well, you know, there are, there are Christian organizations
that, that accept evolution. So here you go, here's some like websites that, you know, they'll,
they'll try and marry the Word of, the Bible, the Word of God with the theory of evolution,
or they'll do theistic evolution. Or I often point people to Michael Jones, a friend of mine,
and I'll say that he's wrong, but he's the, what did I say? He's wrong, but he's the least wrong.
I think his approach is much better than like some like Ken Tovan or Ken Ham, or, you know,
just people that are way off on the other end of like the insane pool of apologetics.
And I just don't understand, I just don't understand why he spent so much time on
Bible contradictions though, man. Like it's just, come on, like he has all this like,
you know, good stuff about evolution, but then he's just like, did the gospel's contradict here?
It's like, yes, they do. Just relax. You know, I'm actually surprised by that because I thought
that series started ages ago. And I was like, like, I haven't, next time I have Michael on,
I'm going to be like, yo, like you, you accept the Bible has contradictions, right? Like does he?
Like, I don't actually know it. I think if you asked me that like several months ago,
I would say no, but I thought I heard something where like he might admit that it could, because
so here's the thing, like there's like a weird, I don't really know where he falls within.
There's just not really weird, but like there's just the maximal data people. There's like the
minimal facts, you know, resurrection people and then the maximal data people. And in a lot of what
they try to do is they are trying to argue that like the, the gospels and like the little texts
are reliable. But some of them will say, well, well, it's possible that there is like a mistake
here and there, but the evidence, the total evidence, but the way that they, the way that
they sort of come across is it's not like it's not completely rigid where it's like they wanted
to admit one, but it's like, okay, like just admitting like one in this whole pericope of
things. It's not, it's still pretty close to the fundamentalism to me, but I don't know,
I don't know his personal views. So I can't, I'm not trying to speak to that, but
yeah, it's like, what is it? It's like, you know, it's like, the gospel accounts are different
and that makes them even more plausible, plausible true. And it's like, okay, like,
it's like, because they're different accounts from eyewitnesses who are there writing in Greek
as they saw things. Like it's just, it's just like, like, well, we're going to have this Friday,
actually, me, Ben and Matthew Harky, Ben the Amateur Axe, Gene Matthew Harky, you're going to
do a deep dive on Lydia McGrew's newest book. We're not going to do it. We're going to record it.
And it's going to be, it'll probably be up on the weekend, but it's, it's basically responding to
this kind of apologetic that's gained some steam lately. So, but that people can look for that
probably this, this weekend. Will that be on your channel? On my interview channel. Oh, cool.
So, uh, yeah, what's your interview channel? I'll just post it posted in the private chat and
I'll, um, just not alchemist interviews. Very original, very original. Awesome. So, um, one thing
that really, you've, you got me to change a little bit, change my opinion on Cameron Batuzzi.
I for the longest time thought that he was a bad faith actor. I thought that he was essentially
just a shill. I don't subscribe to that anymore because he actually took time to have a discussion
with someone who disagreed with him. And, and I thought, wow, good on him. That's, that's great.
Like I take back what I said. I said, I went through, I recently went through some stream
drama. I'm sure everyone knows. Uh, and in that, in that, um, time that I took off, I realized that
I'd been a, a prick to a lot of people online. And I actually, I looked at my tweets and it's
still there, but there was a Christian who I would argue with on Twitter and they posted a meme about
objective morality. And I down, this is just, this is not a content creator, by the way. This is just
a random person, no name, like, you know, who hides their identity. I took their meme, I downloaded
it. I'm extremely busy, by the way. I edited it to show theological problems in their theology
and reuploaded it and tagged them. I'm like, what am I doing? This is like arguing with the
writing on a toilet wall. Like I have become, like Twitter has made me so angry at people.
So anyway, long story short, I ended up reaching out to X, um, I've got his name, X something,
apologetics, X27, I think, uh, I reached out to Karen Batuzzi, I emailed them,
reached out to a bunch of people and I said, Hey, I've been a dick. I'm sorry. I'm going to try
and be a bigger person from now on. So this is an a Karen Batuzzi hate hour. However, what I will
say is I watched the discussion you guys had on the debate you guys had on the problem of suffering
and I have some notes. But first of all, how do you think it went?
Um, well, I want to say too, the way that it's kind of funny, the story of how this happened in
the first place, because people are like, how did, how did you even get him to do this? Well,
so, um, I think part of the, part of the funny thing was, um, it was a while back and, uh, he was,
Cameron was kind of, so, so let me just say something about Cameron. Um, he definitely
is a certain way. Like if you just, if you just go by, he's actually gotten better over the year.
So when I first got on Twitter, before I even had a YouTube channel and I just saw his Twitter,
I was like, this motherfucker, you know, like, I love it though. He's such a troll. I love,
like, I love his trolling way. But by the way, I love it, but it's funny. So, so when I first
got on, this was before I had YouTube before, so I saw him on Twitter for the first, I didn't see
his YouTube. Um, and so I just saw his Twitter and I was like, I was like, Oh my God. And then
I, I eventually like sort of looked at his YouTube channel and I was like, I saw him,
you know, he, like one time he brought his wife on and like was talking with this one. This was
like, this was a while back. Um, he had had his brother on and he had different interviews on,
okay, this is just, this is just a guy. He's, he's kind of riling people up. You know, he's,
it's not like, he's probably not like a bad person. Like he's probably just using Twitter
in a certain way that people use Twitter. Um, so, I mean, so, so even from then I had,
had changed my perspective a little bit. But anyway, to, to how this even happened in the first
place, he, um, he was actually trying to get apologia. Um, I don't remember the exact specifics,
but there's a smaller, um, YouTuber and he was trying to get apologia to debate him.
And I just, I, I kind of got frustrated and I like, I was like, well, why don't you debate me?
You know, like to Cameron, because he set himself up almost like he's, he's trying to get a big
YouTuber to debate a small YouTuber. And I was like, okay, you know, like let me, let me, let
me insert myself in this because like, I know he knows who I am, um, and other people do.
So at least to some extent. So that's like just the general. So that's, that's, um,
I thought that was kind of funny because I didn't expect, I thought, I was kind of trolling him
back. Like the way I did it, I wasn't like, oh yeah, he's going to debate me. I was like,
I was like, let me just see what he does. If I just sort of, you know, flip the situation on
in Ted and see, see what he does. But anyway, so that's, that's how it happened. Um, or started
to get started. Anyway, um, so your question was how do I think it went? Um, I mean, I think
I'm happy with how it went. Um, there's, there's things I would have changed,
which I did mention if I could do it again. But one of the things I'm happy to have been able to do
is sort of, um, present, present, like, and not everyone has to do this. Like atheists that are
just walking down the street and going about their lives don't need to like make all these
positive arguments to like the religious people that are just beating them over the head. Right.
So I'm not, I'm not saying, you know, everyone has to do that. If you're an atheist and you
just want to go on with your life, just go on with your life. But, um, I think it's good to
come out like as an atheist to say, Hey, I actually have, I have an argument and I'm going to come
out swinging with the argument and I'm going to make you go on the defensive. Um, which is what
however you want to conceive of it, Christians are typically used to the atheists going on the
defensive. Like Christians are the burden of proof. Right. Um, or just like they're used to,
you know, presenting these arguments and then the atheists is just like, well, here's why I
don't accept that one. Here's why I don't accept that one. I think just the optics of just saying,
well, you know what, like I can actually take that and I can actually like come out swinging
and make you go on the defensive. So, um, I think just the opportunity to do that was good.
However, people think that it went overall, I just, I'm happy to have had the opportunity
to do that, like that kind of thing. So, so I'm happy with that. Um, I definitely have like my
personal opinion. I don't, I don't think, I don't think he's like the terrible. Um, I think
depending on what people look for, like, I mean, I personally think I won, but um,
I like, I think people could judge depending on what they were looking for. Um, because,
because one of the things, one of the disconnects in our conversation was, it seemed like he was
saying, um, he was, he was joking like, well, I think there was a clear when it was me,
but it's like his, he doesn't under, so there's a distinction between
like formal debates. You don't just judge a debate based on who you agree with.
So like, like rhetoric is part of debate. There's all kinds, like, I'm not an expert in it,
but I grew up watching Craig, like I know, I've listened to Craig talk about how to, you know,
how to win debates. So, um, it's almost like he was just like, well, you didn't convince me of
your argument. You know, so like I won or something like that. I'm not saying that that's exactly
what his frame of reference was. Um, but I, but I do think that, um, well, so some of the other
points that I think he doesn't really, well, I don't know, maybe he realizes now is that
the first two steps in the argument, which is, this was another thing that I think in the eyes
of Christians, because if, I don't know if you saw this, but I've made a blog post on his, um,
YouTube community page, he with his own audience ran a poll of like, who do you think won the
debate? And the results were like, you know, 53% said he won. Like, you know,
high 30 said it was a draw and like 15 to 16% said I won. That's his audience. Like typically,
typically typically like each side thinks they're side one. And if that's, if that's at all, like,
you know, descriptive of the people that are mostly watching his channel, that's slightly
less than half that aren't prepared to say that I lost the debate. So to me, that's a win. Um, so
either way, I don't really care. I just, I was actually pleasantly surprised about that. But
again, I'm rambling again, but there's, before I forget this last thought,
the first two steps in the argument, which I'm, because it's kind of wordy, I'm not going to
remember every step of it, but like the gist is stuff that Christians and theists typically
already accept. So like one of them is, you know, coming into a relationship with God is like our
deepest good. And he's like, nope, nope, that's not true. And like the next step, the next step
is something like, well, you don't need horrors for that to occur. And most, and a lot of theists
and Christians are going to be like, yeah, because babies like could go to heaven, like they don't
need horrors. Like, yeah, it could be useful. It's kind of like, uh, anyway, so like both of those
steps and like, to me, I thought the controversial point was going to be whether God, whether,
given those first two steps, God could possibly allow horrific suffering anyway, for other reasons.
To me, I think that's where the real debate is, at least given traditional theistic and Christian
assumptions. But he chose to like, try to poke holes and stuff that a lot of theists and Christians
already believe. Yeah, which I thought was like, even if he so to me, even if I came in skeptical,
I probably would have just granted him. Because like that to me, like that makes,
that can create a certain perception that can turn off. If I were Christian, even if I were
skeptical of the first two steps in the argument, I would be like, I would probably just for like
rhetorical purposes be like, I'm personally skeptical of this. But because so many people
already agree with that, let's just argue about this crucial thing over here. That's just me.
But I was actually quite surprised that he spent time arguing about arguing about the first two
steps of that argument. It's to be honest. So Alex O'Connor made a video a few years ago,
and it scared the shit out of me. So he basically pointed out that if you're relatively intelligent,
you actually have, you can actually sometimes trick yourself into believing falsehoods,
because you can find ways to make something work. And look, this is getting really meta. I could be
doing the same thing that I'm about to accuse Cameron of doing, but I feel like that's what
Cameron was doing in the debate. That could be me. That could be me right now. So take that with
a grain of salt. But it seemed from my relative viewing, I didn't sit there with a notepad or
anything, but it seemed as though you guys were kind of arguing two separate things. He was arguing
that it would be impossible, like he was a monumental task that you were taking, that you
were arguing that it was impossible for that to be suffering and a God to exist. And I don't think,
and I think you're making more of an inductive argument that like, let's look at the data and
see where we like, where we end up. Is that, am I on the right path there, or do you think that
you're making a deductive argument? It was deductive. But what I was trying to say was that
within a, so deductive, the premises in a deductive argument don't have, you don't have to hold them
with 100% certainty to just, to be like, okay, I accept that premise. So for example, I might say
like the first premise was like, necessarily if God exists, then like our deepest good is a
relationship with God. Well, I could say that I'm, you know, to me, that that's the kind of truth
that if it's true at all, it's true with a high degree of confidence. So like, in other words,
like the credence you have in each step of the argument doesn't have to be 100% in order to like
follow the argument through. So no, it's a deductive argument. And that's people. So that's the thing
too, is like, if people don't like deductive arguments, and that's the reason that they think
like, maybe I lost because I chose a deductive argument. Well, Jeff Louder, actually, who
secular of secular outposts on Twitter, he takes like a similar from horrific suffering and like
the Holocaust and stuff, and he will, he lays it out in a more inductive way than I did. So like,
so even so this is just another quibble. I think that if, if people think that this is my opinion,
like the if I if I did lose, I think I probably lost on certain technicalities. So if you if
people think that, okay, choosing this strong of a deductive argument was a weakness. Okay.
Does that help your Christianity, though, really? Like, like, you might think that you might think
that, oh, he lost the debate. But but just take everything I said, and reformulate it in a different
way. That's a little bit more modest, modest. Then what are you going to do? Take the word
necessarily out of the premises. So keep so that's one of the things I said. So a Christian, so
that's the other thing is like, I'm happy, even if people think I lost on a technicality, I'm happy
to have presented the sort of reasoning I presented, because if because a lot of people are like, oh,
he uses the word necessarily in premises. Okay, if you're a Christian, you think that's the problem,
take that one word out of every step, and then just read the sentences again, and like reevaluate it.
Or you can, like I just suggested, there's ways to put that kind of argument in a different way
that is more modest in the way that I put it. So it's basically, at the end of the day, I still
think I put a lot of rocks and a lot of Christian shoes as as I guess that's one analogy that people
within like street epistemology would use is like making people doubt is like putting a rock in your
shoe and you walk around. So I think I another benefit is I see it as a potential to do that,
even if regardless of what people thought about the outcome, I was still happy to have
an opportunity to do that. Something you said really, really hit home for me. So
you said, how much suffering would it take? This is a question you ask the audience and think after
episode one, or episode two, maybe you said how much suffering would it take? Like, if we ramped
up the suffering on earth, you know, twofold, threefold, a hundredfold, to the point where every
living thing is just screeching in pain for all, you know, for thousands of years before they die.
Like, what what level of suffering would make you go, hmm, this doesn't seem to fit with an
all knowing, all powerful, all loving God. And I thought that was a really good question. And
it was a question that I didn't think was addressed appropriately. And secondly, I think part three,
you hit the nail on the head. And I recommend people go check out this course, it's on your
YouTube channel. You essentially make the argument that what you say is,
sorry, what do you point out is that Batuzzi and people who make this argument are essentially
saying that God's hands are tied, that the suffering that's around us, like he couldn't
have envisioned it any other way. There had to be a universe where children had bone cancer.
There had to be a universe where parasites infected people and they lived a tormenting
life until they died. There had to be like, God's hands were tied, he couldn't do anything else.
And I think that point that that could that could be the that that question could be the
thesis of an entire book, a series of books. That's a that's a big, that's a deep question.
That's really getting into brass tacks. Because I think that that's the biggest problem. I actually
built a really simple syllogism. And I wanted to get your thoughts on what you think. Well,
first of all, we do need to kind of go to morality. But before we do that,
I want to see what you think and what the audience thinks about where Batuzzi or where someone else
who doesn't have a problem of suffering, the problem of evil is a problem where they would
disagree. So I'll just post. So it's three steps. And I got Trash ETP to make me write it as simple
as possible. Okay, first one. If an all powerful, all knowing God exists, then unnecessary suffering
should not exist. Do you think anyone would disagree with that? Well, I think one quiver
would be that I just thought of now is like, you would probably put perfectly good as well.
Because I mean, Capital G God could presuppose perfectly good. But if you're saying like,
yes, Omni God exists, unnecessary suffering should not exist. And this is actually similar to
people will call this like gratuitous suffering. So like that's another name for what you're saying.
Basically means the same thing. So most people, I would say, most theists typically would agree
with this. But that's not all there are some theists would do I don't remember. So
philosophy of religion is a dense literature. But like, yes, there are some people who take
issue with it. But generally speaking, theists are going to accept that step. They're gonna.
Yeah, yeah, they're gonna accept that stuff typically.
Yeah, so I guess and if I could I would but I'd underline the word unnecessary, I'd bold it,
I would red circle around it, I would you know, the word unnecessary there is very key.
And I think this is where the the linchpin in the whole conversation is next, next.
Unnecessary suffering does exist. Right. So this is this is what they'd have to deny.
So I think most typical theists that have thought about it would say,
like I said, some people could and would deny or at least question one. But what they're gonna do
is say that unnecessary suffering does not they're gonna deny that it does exist. And the way that
the way that they some ways that they would try to get out of it would just say
this is what's called it's called skeptical theism is like a fancy word. What it just means is
God's intellect is so above our intellect. I mean, it's like hidden reasons is what it is.
But it's but it's cashed out cashed out a little more. It's just that the distance between our
mind and God's is so vast that there could be reasons like it's there could be reasons that
we couldn't think of why God would allow this kinds of suffering. And so like that's one response
that some people would level. And then other people would just say they would just say we have
we have such other good reasons to believe in God that yes, all the suffering that really looks
unnecessary is evidence against what I believe. But these other reasons I have over here just
seem stronger to me than the belief that the suffering really is unnecessary. So that's those
are the two one ways to just appeal the mystery sort of the other way would just to be like I
grant that it really does look like there's a lot of unnecessary suffering. But I think these other
reasons over here are so strong or at least strong enough to overcome that appearance of
unnecessary suffering that I'm still going to be a Christian or theist or whatever.
I could be leaving stuff out. But that's those are two major ways that people could respond.
But yeah, I think that is in the same ballpark as the God of the gaps. It's just well, we don't
God did it. Like God knows, you know, one of my favorite lines when a pastor is every time I
ask a tough question, you say, we can ask him when we meet him. You know, and it was it was all
in it was just like, well, that's not an answer. The the the argument is now dead in favor of
the person who's proposing these religions. Like this is, to me, this is like the conversation
is kind of over if you're just going to appeal to meh, I don't know, God did it. God thinks that
way. Like God's bigger than us. Like the only thing you could do is build a and I could so see
someone like, not to rip on him, but as I associate someone like Kevin Batuzzi or someone doing this,
but building this like 30 minute video, just like talking about the greatness of God and the
bigness of God and what God is and all and all this stuff. But again, then we're going back to
your original point, which is you're building a universe where God's hands are tied. And that to
me, like that that's a round circle. That's a, you know, that's a four star triangle, like that
it's one plus one equals six. So one of the things too, I want to like, this is why
I think this was another area of the debate that he wasn't necessarily as prepared for because I
I think I brought out more theology than he expected in some parts of the debate, like regardless
of what again, regardless of what people think about the argument I chose to use. But so on theism,
again, another belief that is widely held is that God is if, you know, again, theism meeting this
like Omni God concept, this foundation of reality, this infinite, you know, this infinite good that's
like infinite and resourcefulness and blah, blah, blah, like they build into and see I'm losing my
train of thought again. So what was I just saying? It's the vodka. It's the vodka and it's totally
okay. I know. Oh, so they want to say because of all these other beliefs that they have,
that all the goods that there are are contained in God. And so like the derivative goods, like,
you know, courage or compassion, things like this, like those are good, but like God before
creation, like he didn't need to create anything. Like there's no need in him to create. And so
what Cameron sort of ends up saying to get out of some of these considerations is that, well,
maybe, maybe for the greatest types of goods he did need to create. And it's like, that to me is
in tension with what you're saying God is in the first place. And another analogy that I thought
of too is that that might be helpful is with that that goes along with a hands or tied point is what
he's trying to say is, okay, well, maybe there's like one person who needs to experience some
stupid horrific suffering in order to grow as close to God as they could. Well, there's an analogy
I thought of it's not really original to me that I would have probably been useful to use
in the debate, which is actually funny enough from like Jonathan Edwards, like Calvinist old
dead Calvinist guy. Because so he was wrestling with people were wrestling like, you know, in the
Gospels, there's this talk of there's different rewards in heaven, right? Like depending on
like there's different, there's different rewards for different people in heaven, or at least it
seems to say that in different places. And so they're like the question was, okay, if God is
this infinite source of richness and beauty, how could that really be? And one of the analogies that
they kind of came up with to answer that question is, like, imagine my cup here, right? It has a
certain capacity for liquid. And also a swimming pool has a certain capacity for liquid. They can
be full with respect to their capacity, like, like full of the liquid. It basically like an
ally is with God, like, basically, the answer is people with different capacities for joy and God
could still be filled to their capacity with joy and God, because God is an infinite resource
of goodness. And so what Cameron was trying to say is like, Well, what if there's like one person
who just needs like this, like horrific suffering, like they just need to, you know,
I don't want to start saying horrible things, but like, they just need this horrible thing to
happen to them for them to like grow and close, like, grow as close to this infinite being as
possible. And like one way to say, well, wait a minute, like, we're like this cup, like, okay,
even if we have different capacities for experiencing God, if God is an infinite resource,
he can fill every cup without needing like horse. So that's another way of thinking about it. If
you're going to, so all this hinges on, like, if you're going to define God that way, then
as an infinite resource of any kind, then to just say, well, what if this infinite resource
couldn't fill this finite capacity? It's like, that's nonsense. Like, if I have an infinite
amount of water, I can fill any, like, any kind of cup or bowl or whatever I just make up, like,
if the resource is infinite, the limited nature of the capacity for the thing it's trying to fill,
it's not going to, the hands aren't going to be tied to something like,
something like horse. Anyway, I'm getting a little amnesia.
No, no, it's vodka. And that's what we like here. So sceptics and scoundrels.
It's actually said Cameron said that God allowed slavery to now enable something virtuous,
like MLK and the civil rights movement. I wonder if he has some virtue accountant
in his employee crunching virtue numbers. I mean, so this is actually something I do,
I do want to touch on. So back to what you're saying about God didn't need to create the
universe. And then, well, if it's maximally good, and his hands are tight, like we talked about,
you mentioned that. If a max, sorry, and I actually read, I'm getting lost here,
I changed the wording, if a maximally powerful, all knowing, all loving God exists, because I
think people might have problems with the all powerful, but maximally powerful,
that a necessary suffering should exist. So the arguments still works. And then premise two,
and then I've lost premise, premise three. Therefore, an all powerful, all knowing God
does not exist. And of course, you could, you could tidy all this up. This is all. But something
that I pointed out to Michael Jones is when he came on, and I recommend people go watch that
because it's quite telling, I think, is God could have created a universe. Let's say that
God did create a universe. And this universe, there was just one person, let's say it was me.
And in this universe, the universe was just a white box. And I was inside this white box, right?
And there are two buttons. And one button is, well, this doesn't work because there's a charity,
but one button is give $1,000 charity, and one button is give $500 a charity.
And you have an option to choose give $1,000 charity or give $500 a charity.
That's still choice, but the only options that are available are good options. There is no such
thing as murder. Right. Yes. So I mean, 100% understand. So the idea is that most Christians
are going to say that God has, so there's a distinction between libertarian freedom and
moral freedom. So like a lot of theists are going to say that God has libertarian freedom,
but he doesn't have moral, like he's not actually free to do evil. So like they think that they
want to, I mean, some Calvinists might dispute that part, but like they want to, most theists
are going to want to say that God has like libertarian free, he could have chosen otherwise,
like he could have created, he could have not created. But that doesn't mean he could actually
choose between good and evil because of his nature. So the question arises is that like,
like you're pointing out, God could hypothetically create a world where creatures have similar
freedom that he has, not like exactly the same, but basically maybe they have libertarian freedom
within a certain range of options, but they don't have moral freedom because their character
constrains it in some way, just like they think ultimately will in heaven anyway, because most
Christians are going to think that like, I mean, there's not everyone agrees, but like a lot of
Christians are going to say that the reason that we know there will be no sin in heaven is because
people will lack moral freedom. They'll still have the libertarian freedom, but they want moral
freedom. So anyway, I'm saying that's, that's a good point. I'm just trying to, I'm just saying a
bunch of other ways to like say the same exact thing though. Yeah. It's, it gets very complicated
very quick when you start to just, when you start to try and make things work, like we have moral
freedom in heaven, but not, you know, like all of a sudden you're building these worldviews that
you said are so perfect in, in your, in your video, I've lost, I sent it to you last time. What was
it called? It was number one reason to doubt the Bible, I believe. The number one reason to doubt
the Bible. You said, what's the number, what's the number one reason to doubt the Bible? It's all
too human. Right. And I couldn't agree more. Like, I think that when we start to build these
worldviews with, you know, an all-powerful, all-loving, all-knowing God who creates suffering, but he
needs that, he, he doesn't need, but he chose that suffering to make people virtuous so that,
that when they're in heaven, they're the best selves or something. And then, but then we don't
have free will in heaven and, or free, moral free will, but we have some sorts of free will. And
like, like it just, things get really weird and really complex really quickly. It reminds me of,
you know, we, I was, when I worked in an office, we had some Jehovah's Witnesses come and drop
off some pamphlets for us to read. The first one was, what makes a good family? And that was the
pamphlet and it was a little book about, and had a happy feeling in the front. This is how they laid
it out, by the way. The next one was, is there more than what's, what happens after we die? The
next one was, Armageddon, what's going to happen at the end of the world? And the next one was,
angels and demons and the spirit realm and blah. And it was like, this is a perfect example, like
they, they, they get you in with like a nice, wholesome, community church, you grow up with the
perspective, but once you dive more into the theology or into the philosophy of, of anything,
it starts getting insane because you have to make up these reasons, or at least you have to,
I, I think that you have to make up these reasons for the initial thoughts about what makes a good
family and what made, you know, where do we come from? God made us. Okay. So is God all powerful?
Oh, like you all of a sudden, you just have to build these theologies, these philosophies. And now
I'm ranting. Well, one of the things too, that I am more sympathetic to, like you said, you know,
they, with particular religious beliefs, they get you in with certain things. And like, in a lot of
ways, specific religions are more falsifiable than like, theism is, because there's way more ways for
it to be wrong than, than like, like, if you just have this positive, like, okay, there's a creator,
he's got these properties, you know, that explain stuff. But then if you're like, okay,
this book is divinely inspired, like this set of, this set of doctrines is all right. Like,
there's way more ways for that to be wrong. And typically, like, I'm still happy to have
conversations about whether God exists. But ultimately, I think, and that's one of the
other reasons I try to make my recent video, provocatively called Jesus is dead, is like,
I think, sometimes with the specific religious doctrines of whatever kind, that hits them where
it hurts more than just to say, like, Oh, there's no creator, or there's no God. And it's like,
because I really think, and I think probably in the future, this is just speculation, but
I hope and I think people will probably be able to better, just like, distinguish between, like,
for some reason, maybe they think a creator is plausible. Well, that doesn't mean any of the
world religions are true. Like, you might have this, you might isolate this belief belief off and
say, Okay, there's these reasons that make me think that there's a God or there's a creator or
whatever. But that doesn't mean you have to like, accept Islam or Christianity, like, but it seems
like the way people think now is just like, Well, if if God exists in the clearly, like,
one of these is true. And it's like, hopefully, the more research and scholarship is done,
my cat is walking around the background. But people can see that these major sort of religious
beliefs, there's so many more ways for them to be wrong than like, they're just like,
intuitions that there might be a creator or something like that. So that's a little bit of a
side tangent.
No, that'll work. So we, we've only got a little bit, a little bit of time left. I wanted to
quickly jump into Alex O'Connor posted a tweet and you replied to it. Can you prove God's existence
in a tweet? My brain's not going to work fast enough to look at these responses.
That's okay. So I don't actually, a lot of the responses are, you know, silly, I don't want to
call anyone out by name. Again, I'm a reformed person. Maybe I will in the future, but not right
now. So they've got two funny ones and two more serious ones. I'll start with the funny ones.
I was going to end on them, but we'll start on the funny ones, because we got, I got four,
I've written down four. So this one will get, I'll get some comments on it. So someone wrote,
the mere existence of the hashtag holy Quran is conclusive evidence of God's existence.
Cool. I mean,
you know, the tide goes in, the tide goes out. There's a God. I've never seen that Bill O'Reilly
quote where he says the, he's like, he's like, what, I forget exactly what he says, but he's like,
oh, but he says, he says, the tide goes in, the tide goes out. Can't explain that.
That's like what that kind of quote reminds me of.
It's all I'll say to that is Quran 434.
That's what I have to say. You know, beat your wife. I don't know if a, if a,
It just means light beating. It just means light beating. It's like a little, just like a little,
just like a backhand. Like it just, yeah, but you, you know, you moisturize the back of your hand
before you did. Oh God, this, well, this video is demonetized. Thanks. You can cut it out.
Just go to a YouTube editor and cut that part out.
No, gotta keep it raw.
This is another one. This is, this one I kind of agree with. Twitter exists.
Therefore evil exists. Therefore the devil exists. Therefore God exists.
Flood. I mean, it's not floor. It was perfect. Perfect. No, no. Okay. So this one is,
this one is a bit silly as well, but I think it's something to actually spend a little
time talking about as we wrap up. And I've got another one after this, but
the universe couldn't have made itself.
Right. So, I mean, that's just assuming that, so there's a lot of trickiness with how people
are using the term universe because you could say, well, if there's a multiverse,
then do you just mean like all our universe, like as an instance, you know, but really the main thing
is you want to think about like all of natural causal reality or like all of calls, like whatever
exists, there's like this web of causal reality, right? And you either think that that is completely
natural, whatever that looks like, or maybe like it involves the supernatural. And it's like, when
people say stuff like that, it's just assuming that like, like a naturalist or an atheist can't
just be like, well, I don't, I don't mean, I don't think the universe created itself and the way
that you're implying that I, like the way that you're reading into my views is not correct.
Like, I don't really think like the like, like natural causal reality came into existence. Like,
that's one way of pushing back. And people are going to read like Graham Oppie for more on that,
but it's, I don't want to like go too into the weeds, because if you just want to like go with
like Big Bang cosmology, like just as an example, all that really tells you is you go back to a
certain point, and you don't really know. There's multiple ways I could tackle this. I'm just saying
like, if you want to just talk about like the universe itself and Big Bang cosmology, you're
kind of rewinding back to this state. It doesn't, it doesn't actually say that something popped into
being out of nothing. It's what I'm trying to say. You're, you're going back to this as early as you
can with like certain equations. But like, you know, what does it even make like, it's not actually
saying that it's everything popped into existence or nothing. So there's a lot of complications
about this kind of thing is all I'm saying. Yes, Stephen Hawking wrote in his last book that
it's possible for particles with quantum physics. Look, I might be butchering this, the vodka,
but this is possible for particles the size of our early universe that to pop in and out of
existence randomly with quantum physics. So he hypothesized there's this idea that, that maybe
the universe literally just literally did just pop it like literally just popped into existence.
But I mean, I'm probably butchering that you'd have to go read his book. But right, I mean,
one thing that they would say, and they could say, well, the quantum vacuum is not nothing.
Right. So that's the thing is like, oh, yeah, yeah. But that's fine. Nothing. Right. And so
like, that's the thing is like, like an atheist or naturalist isn't actually like some people
say that like, oh, yeah, like the universe can come from nothing. In a lot of times,
a lot of philosophers and stuff don't actually say stuff like that. Like sometimes pop science people
do. Because, you know, quantum vacuum isn't technically nothing if you're going to be very
specific. But but all this to say that there's, there's options for atheists and naturalists
to answer this kind of question. This is the summary. Like, I would recommend.
And again, I'm not going to remember in the same way that you just recommended something that you're
going to not remember the details. I would recommend people, you know, read Graham Abbey for
some account of naturalism from a more philosophical. We're at that stage of the interview where
the conversation where we where we just start trying to make sense of stuff, but then just
pointing people to like proper resources that aren't docs again. I love it.
Yeah. Before we get on to the last question, let me just quickly shout out your channel again,
guys, go subscribe. You can see many episodes I've watched, like, you know, and I'm seeing your
other stuff as well. As well, you have another channel, which is your interviews. I'll make
sure to link it in a comment. Or if someone can link it in the chat, that'd be awesome.
We also have some cool stuff coming up on deep drinks. And this morning I posted this
really awesome interview with Dr. James Taber. I've got to spend 15 minutes with him
talking about Jesus and the Dead Sea Scrolls. So I think that everyone should go watch this.
This is a brilliant 15 minutes. I'm a huge fan of the conversation stuff that he said there.
I had no idea. I'm very excited to do his course. Let me just say that. So go check out that.
And of course, in coming up, we have Ocean Kelto talking about polytheistic
Norse polytheism. He's a Norse polytheistic, someone who worships the Old Gods,
which would be really interesting. And then, of course, we have, we're trying to get Dylan Burns
on. We have to set a tentative date. He's currently over in Ukraine, demining and doing things like
that. He's an American political stream. And he's going to be coming on to talk about that.
So that'll be fantastic as well. Make sure you subscribe. This channel is literally
the best channel on YouTube. No, but seriously, subscribe if you like content like this and
go subscribe to the Non Alchemist. So the last thing I wanted to ask before we jump into some
super chats, and I've just lost my thing. This one is something that my uncle always talks about.
And this was a quote that I found dismissive. I dismissed it first, but I thought
we should talk about it. First is the surest proof of the existence of water.
Man's eternal search of God says it all. And so what my uncle would say is,
it seems strange that every culture in the world has created these gods and created this idea of
a father figure in the sky or a mother figure in the sky. Is that just something to do with our
evolutionary psychology? Or what's going on there? Why is it the case that people create these gods
separately or across civilization? I mean, there's different ways to go at it. One is,
there's a mechanism that's, I don't know if you've heard the phrase, hyperactive agency
detection. It's basically an idea that, so this does have to do with evolution. And again,
I haven't researched this extensively, but this seems kind of plausible to me, that imagine
you hear a rustling in the bushes or something like that. The inclination to think like maybe
there's an agent there is more survival conducive than to not. And so to evolve, to sort of see
agency even where it's not there, you might postulate that as an explanation for why
so many people just have this tendency to see agency in places that it's just not.
And that could play part of an evolutionary psychology
reason that might explain the prevalence of religion. It's not the whole picture,
there's all kinds of theories and explanations about that. But that's just one
way of looking at it that is interesting to me. The other thing too is if you, like with evolution,
it doesn't seem surprising at all that we would have, you know, the satisfied creature is the
dead creature. So like to say that we would have desires that aren't unfulfilled, whether it be
okay, we desire joy and happiness, different things like that. The idea that we could have
desires that are just going to remain unfulfilled and then look to something else to fulfill those
desires because we can't really meet them ourselves. The fact that we'd always be desiring
something more seems completely what you'd expect if evolution is true. So this isn't
like a knockdown argument against that. It's just to say that it's not like only theistic
Christians have an explanation for why this is plausible or like why this would be. That's
really all I'm trying to show. That's just a brief sketch. Yeah, I think, like I haven't
looked too much into this myself, but it just seems like there's more likely to be a naturalistic
understanding of this than, again, to build a, well, therefore we have a spirit and therefore
the spirit is inside of us. And therefore like all of a sudden you have to build all these like
mechanisms that we don't have any evidence for. So I tend to just more lean towards
naturalism or natural explanation myself. Well, just another super like natural explanations
keep replacing supernatural ones, never vice versa. So that's just another like another way
of looking at it. Yeah. So we have some super chats. Thank you so much for supporting the
channel guys. I really appreciate it. Hang for Sheet, $10. It seems that Thea struggled to deal
with the implications of the LOE. When considering the incredible amount of suffering we see in
non-human sentient beings, should this angle be deployed more? I think so. I think he met
logical problem of evil. So he might have met LPOE. Okay. But so basically I think what they're
saying is that maybe making more deductive or like logical versions of problem dealing with
non-human suffering would be good. And I agree. Because you could say the same kind of thing where
rather than just because there's one thing where having agents like us that it seems weird that
we would have to suffer horrifically. But then, you know, the Theist could say, well, soul building
could help explain it or whatever. But when you make an argument like that about animals,
you know, the like the fawn dying in forest fire when no one's around to see it,
suffering for days and then die, like that's how are you going to, it's going to be much more difficult
to employ free will or like soul building to explain that kind of suffering. So I think
should the same, yes, I think personally, I think that that's another avenue that should be
explored. Yeah, I mean, I like to kind of Cosmic Skeptic, previous, you know, Cosmic Skeptic
used to always talk about this big vegan arc. I think it's something that's not considered at all
because, yeah, it's like, you know, they used to do, they used to, they used to do is this is a
bit gruesome. So trigger warning, they used to do experiments on dogs back, I don't know, 100
years ago. And they would strap them up and they would dissect them alive. And the dog would be
yelping and blah, blah, blah. And they would laugh at people who said that the dog was feeling any
sort of pain, because they would say dog, you know, they dogs can't feel pain pain comes from
the soul pain comes from somewhere else. What you what they're experiencing is what you're
seeing is reflexes like what the same was when you shade a plant and it doesn't and it grows
towards the light, which is just it just seems a bit silly to me. I mean, you can just use induction
say we have similar like mental architecture and like even if I just anyway, like, so I understand
like to the point like if you have like, like bivalves like shellfish that have like no like
neural system, whatever, like those things do have reactions, right? And so I think it's not as crazy
to say that's probably just a reaction. But to say that's something that has like similar arc,
you know, yeah, anyway, my my vegan brother has he'll he'll eat oysters because they don't have
a central nervous system or a or the ability to have consciousness based on what we know about
their brain. So that's interesting. Jason Rollins $5 atheists should employ the problem of evil
as an as an existence of God argument. The answers are more important for later arguments as they
implicate religious concerns. Eighties shouldn't sorry, employee. I'm not exactly sure how to
read this question. Unfortunately, they shouldn't employ problem deals and exists as an existence
of God argument, because it's an argument against the against the existence of God argument,
as an exit against the answers are more important for later arguments. I'm not exactly I'm sorry,
like, I'm not exactly sure what. Yeah, yeah, no, I always struggle with the with the sum with the
drink system struggle to actually understand the answer to the questions. We'll come back to that
one post Jason to clarify with a normal chat and we'll try and I'll get back to it. But thank you
for the final super chat. Anyway, hang for she $10. Do you have any favorite pieces of literature
which are based on LOE, but are somewhat not so blatantly stated out in the open? For example,
mine is the tiger by Blake. I don't I don't think I've ever heard of that. But again,
I'm not exactly sure what I mean, in terms of logical versions, or if we're if I'm still on
track and understanding you're talking about logical versions of the problem of evil, I typically
like Schellenberg who, you know, again, that I in the debate is who I defended the argument,
but he has different. So he has different ones. So I mean, the hidden this argument is, I guess,
it's a deductive argument, but I don't I guess you could qualify it that way. There's the argument
from horrors. But he has a paper. And again, I don't know that you can get easy access to this,
but it's I believe in the Blackwell companion of the problem of evil. But it's called a new logical
problem of evil. And it's slightly different than what I even represented with horrors. So he's
toyed with Schellenberg is toyed with these kinds of arguments in different ways. And I think, at
least in modern, and I think this isn't probably answering the question, because these are blatantly,
you know, explaining the problem. So I don't know. I mean, if you just mean
yeah, like maybe it's like, you know, how who's that? Who's that author that Dr. Peterson
lacks so much? I think I know crime and punishment, dusty, dusty, yes, yeah, he's like, you know,
like it's more than like it's in more than narrative form. If that's is that maybe that's
what they mean. I'm not sure. Yeah, I'm sorry. That's okay. That's okay. Jason Rowland said,
the problem of evil is too easy to answer for the theist. But the answers themselves are important.
You can answer the problem with you by saying that God knows more than we do. But that becomes a
problem for religion. Okay, so I think, well, I mean, obviously, I think the problem of evil is
good. Or else I wouldn't defend it. But but I think what they're saying is, the answers they give
are going to maybe be harmful to the religious beliefs that they actually hold, which I'm not
going to disagree with that. So I mean, maybe you could take a two, you could take a two pronged
approach. And on the one hand, if you like the problem of evil, defend it, but also notice what
they're saying and say, you know, there's the responses do create problems with the religious
beliefs in different ways for sure. Yes. Cool. So we're let's wrap up. But I have one last three
questions for you. I asked him about the last week, the other week. So I'm going to ask you,
what do you think is the best argument for the existence of God? What do you think is the worst
argument for the existence of God? And what do you think the best argument against the existence
of God is best for, and I guess depends on how you are thinking about it. But I think
probably, I mean, I'm somewhat simple, like their responses to like fine tuning type arguments,
but they're still kind of interesting to me. I think contingency style arguments are interesting,
not because because there's two stages with those. One is just trying to get to some kind of foundation
of reality. And I think that the arguments to get to there aren't like completely crazy.
But then you go to like this, the stage two, where it's like, well, this foundation of reality
has to have these qualities and they're like this God like qualities. I really think I'm like
super skeptical of those. But it's interesting, because if you could bridge that gap, then you've
shown a lot, like you've made a huge leap. So I don't think it works. And I don't really think
it's good, like the move from stage one to two. But it is interesting, because if you can make
that jump, you've proven the Omni God. So it's like, it's kind of aggressive in that way. So
I think that's interesting. Worst argument, the other one was worst argument forgotten.
Yeah, what is the worst argument? Probably more crude design arguments that are just like,
look at the trees kind of arguments where it's like, I was going to say look at the trees.
You can formulate them a little bit more complicated than that. But I would just say,
because fine tuning is sort of a design argument where it is. But the more crude versions of those,
I don't find persuasive. I think arguments based on like religious experience,
because there's different ways. I mean, there's, there's one way where you could just say,
I personally have justification to believe in God because I've had, you know, religious experience,
but there's others like, like Swinburne tries to do a, he's a Christian philosopher,
tries to take the fact that of religious experience in the world and move to some kind
of supernatural, I'm just not persuaded by those kinds of arguments.
Hmm. Yeah.
And what is the best argument against the existence of God? And I think I know what you're
going to, what are you going to say? Right. So if you mean kind of triple, you know,
triple Omni God, I would say arguments from horrors, however conceived, whether it's
logical versions or evidential versions. I think those are the best. If it's just
against deities in general, then just the fact that, again, I'll plug another book that,
so there's a book by grandma called the best argument against God. And basically what he says
is, you know, it's basically an argument for naturalism, where he's saying
naturalism can explain everything that like theism can explain and like naturalism simpler.
And so it went, it wins. So like that's basically, so, so like Omni God, I would say like horrors
and stuff like that or hiddenness, horrors or hiddenness for just like why I don't believe
in deities in general, I would just say, I just don't think I really need them to explain anything.
Basically. So cool. And last question I asked this, this is a fun one. Let's say you knew that
one religion was true. What is most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in?
Well, I mean, so it depends on, could like, I mean, I guess, so like a revealed religion or
just like fearsome, like if I like, because I've always said, like, even if I believe it, even
I believe in God again, I would just be like a philosophical theist and I wouldn't be religious.
Yeah. So it has to be like a religion like Hindu and it has to be theistic. It can't be like
Buddhism. You can't like, it has to be a theistic version of Buddhism.
Yeah, I'd probably just go back to some kind of like more progressive version of Christianity,
but I just don't see myself ever going there. I would just, I don't think I'm just not persuaded by
any, like I do think that there's, there's more to like, it's kind of like a, it's bad and good
in some ways, like within Christianity, there's somewhat more to sink your teeth into in terms of
like, you know, some kind of testimony towards something that's empirical, but again, I don't
think it works. But I guess I would like some, some kind of more progressive version of Christianity
if I had to choose, but I think there's a very small chance I would ever return to something
like that. Have you, have you looked at any of the reasons why the Jewish people don't accept
Jesus as the Messiah? Oh, of course. Yeah, so I mean,
yes, 100%. I just don't, I just don't know. I don't know. I mean, I guess, so it wouldn't be as long.
It would have to be like Judaism or Christianity. I guess I'd say that. I just, maybe it's just
because I have, like there's like a sentimental attachment to Christianity. Maybe that's the
only reason, but yeah, it would have to probably be Judaism or Islam for sure, or that Islam,
Judaism or Christianity. You know, Hindu, Hinduism has the closest,
they say the universe was created 13 billion years ago. So they're the closest in regards to
like, when it actually, like as far as we can tell. So, I don't know. But, but yeah, there's a, you
know, it's, it's an interesting question, I think I often ponder it, like, or like maybe something
like Jainism or, you know, truly like not, I wouldn't want to be a Jain, but like someone who's like,
the more radical you become, the less dangerous you are to society. Like, you know,
I think that's kind of cool. So I've lost my banner, but I just want to shout out our arch,
I don't know where it's gone, but our archbishop, Jason Rollins, who's one of 18.
We're still waiting for some more to come on through Patreon. So thank you, Jason Rollins,
for your support and being the archbishop. And of course, Papa Aaron Coulson, the Pope of Deep
Drinks. We're going to end the interview there, guys. Thank you so much. Next time, you know,
I really, you know, if you will come on the show again, I would love to talk to you about the
resurrection because you've written a blog about this a couple of years ago. And I think that you
can sink your teeth right into that problem because I'd love to learn why you don't accept
why you're skeptical about the resurrection. But yeah, thanks everyone for coming out. Is there
anything else you want to say before we leave? No, thanks for having me on. Appreciate it.
Awesome. All right, I'll see you guys later.
