...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
Welcome to Deep Drinks Podcast,
where the drinks are deep and the conversations
are deeper.
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
that could be so delicious. So without further ado, I'll introduce our guest. Thomas Westbrook
is the creator of the popular YouTube channel Holy Kool-Aid. This is his second time on Deep
Drinks. His channel boasts over 250,000 subscribers and 29 million views. Thomas promotes scientific
skepticism and critical thinking and is currently investigating miracles. His next episode will
be in the next couple of days. However, his Patreon supporters have had an early glimpse
at some of those things. So if you want to see the early glimpse goes to his Patreon,
if you want to check out the video when it comes out, it'll be the next couple of days. Welcome,
Thomas Westbrook. Hey, thanks for having me. It's good to be on. Did you change the background?
Yeah, well, it's, I mean, no, I'm actually out here and check out this beautiful sunset at this
old church. It looks like a scene from like one of the original God of War games. Like, um,
kind of like, yeah, which I've actually been playing the new God of War and it not the not the
new new one, but the the one that they just released on PC through Steam right before. Oh,
yeah. Yeah. Amazing. Amazing. I want to I want to get back into that. I started playing it and I
I don't think I was in the the mood for that style of game. But I want to get back into playing it
because I love the originals. And the more I'm learning about like mythology, it's I'm like,
oh, wow, they actually took real world things and put them into the game. Like that's yeah.
And I mean, like it twists a lot of mythology and stuff. Obviously, you have a character that's
not really a real character that's now in moving from Greek mythology into Norse mythology and like
fighting with Norse gods and stuff. So there's a lot of I mean, all mythology is made up and
changes over time. But if you're actually wondering like, what did Norse pagans believe it's there's
going to be a stretch, but you're still going to learn about actual gods and goddesses and different,
you know, creatures and stuff. So it's fun. And I love that that type of thing. Like I loved playing
the Assassin's Creed game that took place in Egypt because like on top of while, you know, there's
there's a lot of historical fiction. There's still a lot of things that it's like that's actually what
some of the buildings looked like. And they actually went to a great, you know,
amount of detail or do a great amount of research in order to get the details right.
I haven't played that one. Is that do they have aliens building the pyramids? Because obviously
No, I was actually surprised because I got that back when I was doing my video on
the pyramids and how the pyramids were built. And that was going to be like once I'm done
with this video because I've just been taking a deep dive into ancient Egyptian history. Once
I'm done with this video, I can reward myself by getting and playing that game. And there was
there was actually part of the like non gameplay part of the game where you could just do like a
tour without any like fighting or any story, but just like walking through the great pyramid and
seeing the things that like archaeologists actually have to say about it. And it wasn't like ancient
alien stuff. It was actual research and actual, you know, hypotheses that have been put forward.
And it was it was pretty, pretty spot on. Wow, cool. Yeah, I'm gonna have to go back and I'm
gonna I have some catch come to do with the video games. I think it's it's been a dry few years for
me. In fact, I actually started my own gaming channel. It's got no subscribers. No one cares,
but I've been playing three Nintendo 64 games and that's been really fun. So what are we drinking
today, Thomas? We are drinking because it is dry January, which is a huge difference from when
last time you were on the channel and we got shitfaced on Adios motherfuckers.
AMS. Yeah. That was fun. This time, we are doing an Arnold Palmer, which my green screen makes
this look almost magical, but it's lemonade and iced tea. So I've got the sweet red diamond iced tea
because I'm here in the south and you got to go sweet tea, you know, go big or go home.
I got the Lipton iced tea. I could only get lemon flavor, but I thought lemon is close enough to
lemonade and then lemonade. So that's what I'm mixing together. It's actually pretty good.
Yeah, it's actually pretty good. A little bit of ice and just do about a 50-50 split,
and unless you're more wanting like lemon taste and less tea, you're vice versa.
Well, as you pour that, has anyone else, thanks everyone for showing up, by the way,
is anyone else continuing with dry January with us or maybe it's just a dry day for you
and which tastes great. Maybe you had too much too much last night, but so and we'll ask that we
get a powerful and important question to you, Thomas. Does God heal amputees?
I wish he did. And on top on that same note, a lot of times that the amputee is the one that,
you know, is kind of first and foremost, like people will use that as an example.
What I want to see is, does God separate conjoined twins?
Yeah, interesting. Interesting. Why do you want to see that more than...
To me, that would be even more, it would be even more hard for them to fake or to spoof,
because in my research, I've seen enough faith healers who are not just fooled themselves,
but are genuinely going out of their way to con and scam people. And I feel like if someone comes in
with potentially hiding some type of a, you know, hiding an arm or hiding a limb,
and then somehow slipping it out, I feel like that would be a little bit easier to fake
than if you straight up have, you know, if you have like a couple, like two boy conjoined twins
walk in like with their shirts off and you can see them where they're stuck together,
and they're sharing an organ, you know, they're sharing a kidney that they need to survive or
something. And all of a sudden they just swoop and like split like an amoeba. If God can create
the universe just like that by speaking it into existence, that should be absolutely no problem
for them. And for these faith healers that some of them claim that I think Todd Bentley,
what's he at now? Like he claims that there's like 35 people he's raised from the dead.
And yet none of them are on camera and none of them have been verified. And it's just every single
time he gives a sermon, that number just like keeps going up. And it's, you almost think that this
guy has, should have a responsibility to just hang out at the morgue and just like, nope, not you,
not you, the blood of Jesus. So is he, is Todd, is that the guy who ran that revival a few years
ago who has like tattoos, tattoos all over him and stuff? Is that the same guy? He does. He's got,
now he has this big orange beard before he, he's still bald, but he used to not have as big of
a beard. Now he just looks kind of like an old dude. But he got in trouble for some various
sex scandals within his ministry, both involving men and women. And allegedly accusations, but
let's just say that there were enough accusations that, at what point do you kind of tend to,
you know, it's like, okay, here's some famous person who, you know, someone came with some vague,
kind of iffy accusation versus, hey, there are 20 different people that are all coming forward
with something. At what point do you just, does it stop being allegedly? And it's like, yeah,
that's, that's enough for me to. Yeah, well, at least investigate it or something like it,
criminally. Yeah. I mean, that's just, I remember when that was happening, I was in ministry college
or it was shortly after I was in ministry college. It was around that time in my life. And I remember
I remember someone in class said, God told him to get all these tattoos. And I was like, oh,
like, I was like, okay, I was like, this is like, not that I don't know, I've liked tattoos, but
I was like, it's weird that God would tell you to get the tattoos, especially given that there's
verses in the Bible that seem to indicate that God doesn't like tattoos. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean,
yeah, it's strange. So you've been investigating the supernatural, you've been investigating
miracles, your series is the whole reason I reached out to you because I watched it and I was like,
this is so, so, so important. And I actually wanted to, to kind of kick us off into this whole thing
by, I guess, showing a clip of Peter Popoff's ministry. Now you've seen the clip before,
a lot of the audience probably has seen a clip before, but for those who haven't seen it,
Peter Popoff was a faith healer in the 90s. So this is a VHS tape.
Actually, earlier than the 90s. Earlier than the 90s. Okay. And I think he, I forget when exactly
he was exposed, but it was either the 80s or the 70s. But yeah. And, and James Randy had a,
James Randy is a like a magician skeptic. He passed away a few years ago, tragically, but
he's a great guy and he would expose psychics and things like that. And he went to one of these
crusades with a radio scanner to see if they could pick up anything in the audience. And
this is the clip from the documentary that they aired. Now, I want you to keep in mind
to, as we watch this, as it goes for like two minutes, is Peter Popoff still has a ministry.
So he left for a few years, he's back, he's flocks back, people still support him.
Not just that, but it's, it's, I don't know how intentional and deliberate this was,
whether it's that this specific audience found him or whether it's that he targeted this specific
audience. But because his initial church following was, you know, okay, he's,
most of these faith healers are in the South, either Oklahoma or Texas,
the vast majority of them, some of them in Florida. And because initially his audience was,
you know, middle class, upper middle class, you know, suburban white people,
and they're the ones that are watching shows like Johnny Carson, which this aired live on and
exposed to on, he knew that he couldn't go back to that audience and he filed for bankruptcy.
So now he's targeting specifically the African-American community, because they are less
likely to have seen that show. And also because socioeconomically, there is a split and a divide
in terms of just structurally education levels within the US. And so it's, it's really fucked up
because especially given that like, he's, he's still pulling the same con and still robbing
people of their, their hard earned money. And a lot of these people are in incredibly desperate
situations. So whether it's deliberate racism versus just a crime of opportunity of, Hey,
here's an audience that hasn't seen me yet, either way, it's like, he's gone from targeting people
who are already vulnerable because they are, you know, suffering from cancer to people who
have even less money to seek out medical care and are desperately turning to him.
I did not know that. That's horrible. I don't want to poison the world. Everyone can decide,
is this man a saint or a sinner? Let's, let's check out this clip.
I'll tell you from now on, you're going to have a solid victory in your heart.
Hey, man. To his followers, pop offs seem to have divine powers.
Is it gold? Alice, gold.
He knew their names. Stand up, Alice. As well as the afflictions they'd come to cure. God is
touching that thyroid condition right now. God is touching your nerves right now. God is touching
your eyes. Just lift up your hands, get ready. Here it comes. He also knew the personal details
of their lives. Your good news from Charles, before everything is over, I'll tell you, he's
going to be completely delivered because of your prayers, because of your faith. Here it comes,
complete. Heal it. Jesus. Might your name right now, right now, right now. Amen. It's all right to
praise the Lord. I suspected that pop offs revelations were other than divine. Radio scanner,
we brought to the hall, picked up a decidedly worldly source.
Hello, Peedy. Can you hear me? If you can't, you're in trouble.
Pop off was being prompted by his wife through a wireless earpiece. John?
Do you leave John? She'd gotten her information from prayer cars filled out by the faithful
before the show began. She's about to get rid of the walker. You want to get rid of this walker,
sister? Oh, glory. How long have you been walking on that walker? About three years. Three years.
She lives in 1627 10th Street. 1627 10th Street? Is that right? That's right. She has that blood
of burning this arthritis right out of your body. Take a few steps just to make the devil mad.
Hallelujah. Sit, just move around a little bit. There she goes. Just walk with me. Oh, glory to
God. She's not going to need that walker anymore. God's just putting new strength, new health,
burning that arthritis out of her body. Just keep going. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
I was able to arrange for another broadcast of the Miracle Crusade on the Tonight Show,
but this time the wireless pumping was included.
Yeah. So I don't know about you guys. I feel like he's a piece of shit.
And I think that part of the reason why these conversations tend to happen is because of people
like Peter Popov still running around, still pulling the same tricks. And you know, and you
can tell why it's because when there is no hope in someone who may have terminal cancer or
something, like they turn to the supernatural, they turn to spiritual leaders to give them
who to tell them that there is 100% hope in the name of Jesus or whatever guru they're subscribed to.
Yep. Yeah. And it's, it's the thing that's heartbreaking is that a lot of the people in
these situations are, they have conditions which are potentially treatable. So there's,
you know, plenty of cases where you'll see children who, you know, they have no say in
the matter as to like whether or not they go to a doctor or whether or not they go to a faith healer
and yet their parents will be, you know, into a faith healing cult, whether it's like word of faith
or whether it is a Christian scientist and they'll opt for faith healing instead. And the kids wind
up dying as a result. So in those situations, it's not always taking the kid to a faith healer.
Sometimes it's just the parents at home anointing the kid's head with oil, but it's because they
watch things like Peter pop off and they'll see these, these big televangelists coming on,
you know, saying it's health and wealth. God wants you to be healthy. You want you to be
wealthy and he's, I'm here to cure you and miracles are still happening and the Holy Spirit comes and
can heal anyone. And a lot of them are pulling stunts. They're pulling cons and scans on people
and they, you know, they need to be called out and they need to be exposed. But when someone sees
it, it looks so convincing that these videos will get shared all over the internet as proof of
miracles and the divine and the supernatural and people will add that to the back of their head,
like as to their data bank of, Oh God, must be real because I saw this miracle. And then if that
miracle, they see that one, they see another one, they see another one, they might all be
complete hoaxes. And yet you're in your mind, you're thinking, Oh, I have, there's a lot of data.
Well, that one wasn't real, but there's plenty of others that I've seen. Oh, well, that one wasn't
real, but there's plenty of others. And the more that I have dug into this and just gone after one
faith healer after another, after another, after another, I've seen time and time and time again
where especially with the big ones, like the major televangelists, I'm talking like the top 50,
it is very, very, very difficult for me to say that I think that any one of them
does not know that they are scamming people or being dishonest, at least in some sense of the word.
It's, uh, it's, it's really, it's really tough, isn't it? Because I think I agree, I tend to agree
with you that when I first started deconstructing my faith, I thought, Oh, a lot of people are just
mis don't, they don't fully, like they, they're not, they're not cognitive cognizant of their,
their, their deception and what they're teaching. But then I discovered there were a lot of people
who weren't, especially like in the young earth creation movement and the faith healing movement,
and I was actually really disgusted that these people were getting away with it. But there are
some people who are some churches who fully believe, I believe they fully believe what they
teach. Yeah. And, and, and this is the distinction that I want to make when I say
among the top 50, I do not think that you get to that level of attention of publicity of wealth
without being really in a deep, because imagine that you have two people and one
hundred percent wholeheartedly believes it, thinks that, you know, God is, is answering prayers
and they're coming along and they're laying hands on people and that person saying, I feel
better. You prayed over me. Like this is fantastic. And in actuality, it's just that they're getting
an adrenaline rush in the moment. The pain is being dissipated. There's all these neurochemical
processes that are going on in that setting. And that person thinks that, oh, God just healed them.
And both the person being prayed for and the faith healer in that situation, I think that
it's genuine, but that's not going to get as much attention as someone like Todd White, who comes
along and says, I can straighten your legs out. And, you know, one leg is longer than the other.
And I'm going to pull this, this trick, or I'm not pulled this trick, but I'm going to pray over
your legs. And right there in front of the camera, you see one leg extending. And it's one of the most
like discernible signs of someone being a con artist and a scammer is when they do that leg
trick. And there's a couple of different ways that you can do it, but none of them are, hey,
this person's leg is actually growing. They're either taking a slip on shoe and they're like
pulling the shoe off and on a little bit, or they're taking the person's legs and they're
kind of like tilting one backwards and forward. Another way is if the person themselves is in
on it, then they can kind of shift their hips a little bit, or the faith healer can pick up
their legs and hold them off to the side just ever so slightly. And what that does is it kind of makes,
makes one kind of go out versus in when you like hold it straight forward. It might be
straight, but then if you like hold it to the side, one is a little bit longer. And so like there's
a couple of different ways that they can do that trick. And like four different ways that I know
of. And that's, that's a go to trick for, you know, WB Grant used it consistently. Todd White uses
it all the time. There's a couple of other people and you start seeing that, oh, hey, this faith
healer is using it, this faith healer is using it, this faith healer is using it. And then
like if those ones know that what they're doing is dishonest, because you can't do that without
realizing what you're doing, then if they're connected with a bunch of other faith healers,
like Benny Hinn, who is actively vetting, he has basically a mob in the audience of
catchers, if you will, people, you know, ushers and stuff who are the ones that
will prevent people from coming to the front and select who in the audience gets to come to the
front. Reinhard Bonka did this as well, where I'm saying him live. Really, it'd be like auditioning
to get to go to the front. And if you said, oh, I'm healed of this great thing and I can do this
thing, they'd be like, okay, you can get up on stage. But if you're coming forward to be prayed
for and you have cerebral palsy, or you're completely paralyzed, good luck getting forward to
the front. And they know what they're doing, they know exactly what they're doing. And they hear
the stories of people, sometimes they get sued and sometimes they have people come forward and
expose them. And it doesn't matter, they're making millions and millions upon millions of dollars.
And then they're able to reinvest that in launching TV shows and like showing it, you know, oh man,
this is all, you know, this person's coming forward and claiming that they're being healed.
And like in the case of Benny, him, there's probably been like 10 different TV stations,
at least, that have done exposés on him that have followed up with people that came on stage and
like every single one time and time and time again, it's like, oh, this person wasn't actually healed.
This person thought they were healed in the moment, turns out that they weren't this person,
you know, came forward and they felt like they were better. And then like a few months later,
they died of cancer. And I have in one of my videos already, I have a compilation of just
Benny Hinn and it's just one person after another that is like this person died two months later,
this person, you know, started to improve and then died this many months later and this person died.
And it's just like this countless list of people who have died because of faith healing. And the
faith healers know about it. They know about it. And in some situations, they're actively discouraging
people from going and getting medical care and they're telling them to opt for faith healing
instead. But then if they come on a TV program, they'll deny it. They'll say, you know, because
when they're giving their sermon, they might say something like, you know,
Dr. Jesus will heal you in ways that the doctors never can. And when you have faith,
Jesus is my vaccine and all this stuff. But then if they come on a show, they, you know,
they're very cautious with what they say. So they'll say, I never told any specific person to
not go see a doctor like absolutely by all means go and get tested. In fact, that'll verify and
show that it's a real miracle. And they'll say that they have all these documents and all these
records proving it. And then they don't. And when they do provide them, there's either a bunch of
information detracted and you still can't track down the people, or you follow up and you actually
find the doctors, you find the people and you realize that that's not, it wasn't a miracle.
It was either a misdiagnosis and to begin with, or the person still has the condition,
or the person was getting treatment from their doctor and recovered at the normal rate that
they would have. And so you start seeing all of that and you start seeing how much greed and
how much money is tied to it. And then you start finding other things within this network,
where I'll give you an example. There's an organization, I believe it's called St. Matthews
Church, but it's changed names like three or four times. The Trinity Foundation has done
exposés on them and like done press releases on them. But basically, and if you're not familiar,
the Trinity Foundation is a watchdog organization. It's a Christian organization. That's a watchdog
organization for these faith healers and for con artists and scams. And 100%, they do phenomenal
work. But this group called St. Matthews is actually a direct male marketing firm that you
may have seen some of their stuff that they've done for like Robert Tilton and others where
they will send out like, oh, hey, here's this little thing, this seed of faith or whatever,
and you have to plant this in the ground and then send me back. Here, I've placed my hand
on this piece of paper. Now you place yours on it and trace around it and send back $5 as a
showing your faith and how much you believe. And God is going to bless you with tremendous
prosperity within 90 days, as long as you follow the words of the prophet of God. And they'll do
this like 10, 20, 30 times just back and forth and back and forth, because when people come and show
up at their revival healing crusades, they collect their information of everyone that buys tickets,
they collect their address, they collect, and they get on these mailing lists. And so these
companies have literally gone through and psychologically figured out the best ways to
market to people who are, you know, gullible, vulnerable, desperate, in need of some kind
of wealth breakthrough, and they'll target them with these things, and then they'll get responses,
and then they just like, they put them in this pipeline of, all right, now you're in the funnel,
and we are going to, you know, keep pumping out all of this male stuff to you. And when the person
sends it back, they found like entire piles of this stuff just in the dumpster that like no one
ever read, no one ever looked at. And the pastor, it sounds like it's this very personal communication
where the pastor's like, dear Irma, you know, I was so grieved to hear of your cancer, the cancer
that your husband is struggling with, but we're here to fight it together. And it has the illusion
of being personal. But in actuality, they're blasting this out, you know, these marketing
mailings out at scale. And when this first back, when this first really took off was like back in,
I want to say like the 60s. I believe it was like 1960s or 70s. And it was, there were a couple of
faith healers, including Oral Roberts, TL Osborne, eventually Robert Tilton, possibly FF Bosworth,
like there's a couple of like really big name ones that basically when they all use the same guy,
they all use the same service and they all use the same company because it's a way that it's
all about the money. It's not about caring for people and healing people. It's about how much
can we rake in? How much can we get out of these people? And so that tells me that like
these people are, they know exactly what they're doing. And it's all interconnected. So you have
that. And so you start seeing these connections, you start seeing kind of this, this web, and you
start seeing like who's who, and then who was like an underling or a protege of someone else.
And so like Oral Roberts will come along and he'll have tremendous influence and connections
with someone like Catherine Coleman, who then it directly influences Benny Hinn. And they're all
going on each other's TV stations. They're all promoting each other. They're all, you know,
doing shout outs for each other. And it's every single one of them is pulling the same gimmicks
and using the same money making strategies. And they're all, you know, health and wealth,
name it and claim it, prosperity got the doctor and preachers. And they're faith healers too.
And so you start seeing the overlap there. Then you get to churches like Bethel where there's,
you know, actually training students in the divine arts. It's basically like the Hogwarts of
Christianity. But it, that is a perfect is the Hogwarts of Christianity. I actually wanted to
talk about Bethel, but go finish what you're going to say because. So like Bethel, I was watching an
interview with one of the elders from Bethel who had left the church. And he was basically saying
how he did not see a single miracle while he was there that really he's like every single thing
that I saw was very easily explainable. There were a few cases where people were getting medicine,
like medical treatment in addition to being prayed over, but like he never saw an actual
like organic healing. It was always things like, Oh, I, you know, had a congested nose or a headache
or something. And it's like the pain went away. The pain was eased or something psychosomatic
occurred. They're not one single thing where it's like this person, you know, has a hand that's
completely crippled and crumpled up and they pray over him and boom, it's like back to normal and
it's medically verified before and after, like never saw anything like that. But what he did see
was there was like, they have the glitter that falls from the ceiling and they're like, Oh,
it's the holy, you know, we're praying and Jesus is like raining glitter down on us.
And he found that like, there was like another church that was like associated with Bethel
where he literally walked in on someone dumping glitter in the ventilation system.
Oh, really? So I have friends who traveled from Australia to America to do Bethel training.
And, uh, and then at the end, they get my sister did. Oh, really? They get anointed with a sword.
Like they get like, they get down on one knee and they get anointed with a sword.
Feels a little freemasonry. But, um, but I, I, I, you see, this is where I don't know if we want
different opinions here, but I, well, obviously there is the Peter Popoffs of the world who are
absolute frauds. We know they're frauds. We know they're in it for the money. They don't give a
shit about people. Um, the world would be a better place if they didn't exist, not advocating for
violence. But, um, but then there are people who I think, like, I think Bethel, I think the leaders
of Bethel and the, the community of Bethel believe in miracles. I think they believe that these things
can happen. And the thing that, the thing that really got me, and I was unsure if I was going to,
to, to mention this, but, um, but when I was interviewing Ferrell Pass's wife a few weeks
ago now, um, they brought up a story that just had me like, like shaken up. And, um, let me just,
um, share it. Um, let me just, uh, stop sharing. Sorry, everyone. I'm a little bit of a boomer.
Um,
and, uh, and this, whoop. So there was a little, so I looked up, I looked into it last night and,
you know, my wife was expecting yesterday. Uh, so I do that was yesterday and we're still yet to
have the baby. Congratulations, by the way. Thank you. Um, uh, it's very exciting. This broke my
heart and I don't know if it's just because it's so close to home, but, um, and my thoughts and
condolences go out to the family and everyone affected, but Ferrell Pass's wife told me about
this. There was a child who died in the church and the child was, um, two years old and they prayed
over the child's body for four days, um, believing for a resurrection. Is olive, olive something?
Yeah. This is footage from the mother. Um, day four is a really good day for a resurrection.
Come alive, olive. And yeah, it's the whole church believing and praying. Um,
the Johnson, the pastor produced a video talking about how they were believing on behalf of this
child. Why is he wearing glasses? Hey, now, genuinely, genuinely. Yeah. If faith, if God
heals eyesight, why are all these faith healers wearing glasses? That's a, that's a, that's a
good question. It's a good question. I don't know. Um, that's, you know, and I, I see that and I see
also, um, like faith healer after faith healer who like Kenneth Copeland, he will walk through
the audience and claim that he's healing all these people. Now, Kenneth Copeland is worth like
a hundred million dollars his ministry. My mother, my mother back in the nineties gave him $500
when we, you know, that wasn't a lot of, that was a lot of money for us at the time, you know?
And Kenneth Copeland has a, he'll, he'll have various like revival healing, uh,
crusades and stuff and people will come for these conferences and stuff and they'll have
healings and I don't know that Kenneth Copeland necessarily does it himself as much anymore,
but he has a protege of his, his church named Billy Burke and it's just disgusting the stuff
that this guy does. And it's so transparently like obvious to me, having watched just hours and
hours and hours and hours and hours of this stuff, you start to spot this person knows what they're
doing. So like, I see that where like, um, uh, in the case of, I forget where I was going with this,
but you were saying, um, oh, the eye glasses, Kenneth Copeland literally has a pacemaker
and he went to the hospital for heart problems. Why are these guys going to the hospital? Jack Co
claimed that he cured people all the time, multiple people of polio. Guess what he died
of when he was 38? It's my next video is on the sky. Died of polio. Guess what he did before he died
because he shouldn't laugh. He shouldn't laugh at someone dying of polio. He, he got sick on like
November 28th, 1956, got sick, was in really critical condition, went to the hospital and he
was in the hospital and like, uh, in critical condition, he would wake up and then he'd fall
back asleep and like people were praying for him. They had entire like 24 hour prayer chains where
like multiple faith healers and people in all these churches, they're all praying for him, you
know, for him to get better. And he was one of the biggest proponents against people going and
getting, um, medical treatment, but opting for faith healing instead. Also got exposed multiple
times. I have a whole video on it coming out hopefully tomorrow. And this guy, he, instead of
seeking out faith healing himself, goes to the hospital first and then for like two weeks,
people are just nonstop praying for him. And then he dies of polio. And he's not the only one that,
that's had that type of a situation. And then you start looking, you start looking into these
guys lives. Because it's because he went to the hospital. That was, that was stepping outside
of faith. He should have just remained in the faith and he would have been okay. That was,
it was not believing God to go to the hospital. Yeah. But you start looking into these guys and
it's, there's, there's a certain amount of faux humility that they put forward. And when I say
that I'm, I'm very skeptical with, um, with Bethel, it's that I see, I see the ties and the
connections that they have with other people within the church. That doesn't necessarily mean that
they are doing the same thing. But, um, I know that Todd White has really strong ties to Bethel.
And I know that he's done and given like sermons and stuff there and people are like, oh, look,
you know, Todd White is, is going to come up and heal us and stuff. And he literally goes and
does the leg trick. That's his signature move on the street. And he also, yeah. There's a video
where this guy says that like he went to, he was on the beach in Hawaii cause Todd White has like
a Hawaii beach house and everything. Cause he's, you know, of course all of them have
filthy, stupid amounts of money. And he, uh, Todd White goes to, or this guy goes to, to Hawaii
and he just happens to see Todd White on the beach, goes up to him and Todd White's like,
yeah, you know, is there anything that you need healing over or whatever? And he'd just been
doing the leg trick on the beach. But he knows Todd knows that like, Hey, if, if this is just
a placebo, if someone has a stomach ache and I pray over it and it feels better, it's like,
oh wow, God heals. Or if like their leg hurts or their knee hurts and I pray over it or their
shoulder hurts and I pray over it, then it's like, oh man, look, God has healed you. But if it's
something that's obvious, some like organic thing or some, you know, uh, either deformity or some
broken bone that hasn't been reset or complete total blindness, then he's not going to be able to,
to do anything about that. And so he's talking to this guy and this, this guy's like, actually,
you know, yeah, I do have an injury when, when I was younger, I was playing sports
and I broke my finger and his finger is still kind of like crooked like that.
And Todd White is like, huh, interesting. And then just completely turned and ignored him and
just like looked away and like just because he knew that there's, there's nothing he could do.
Yeah. And so it's things, stories like that as well as seeing the, the, the types of things that
they do, seeing the connections that they have and seeing the ways that they raise money and the
fundraising tactics and scams that they pull on people that I see that and then I see them
weeding out people in the audience and having basically auditions for who gets to come on stage.
And that really, really raises red flags for me. One of the other things that Todd White does
is he uses the same tricks that, that psychics will use where they will shotgun things out into
the audience hoping for a hit because they know that statistically it's likely. So
they'll play up the music, they'll get it super amped and super emotional and everyone's like
excited. And they're like, now I believe that, you know, people hear God is telling me that
people are going to be healed with shoulder injuries and people are going to be healed
of, you know, internal cancers and people are going to be healed of arthritis and the stuff
that they list off, it is always, always, always the same things. It's diabetes, it's arthritis,
it's a joint pain, like knees, hips, back. A lot of times it's back pain, shoulder pain,
you know, they'll do things like partial deafness because it's really hard to kind of,
unless you actually go in for a hearing test to be able to tell exactly, you know,
like someone nods and you put your hand up like, yes, I'm deaf or people being raised out of
wheelchairs. It's stuff like that. And the thing is a lot of times people who are in wheelchairs
can walk, they just shouldn't walk because they, they have maybe like they've broken a bone. And
so like they're, you know, they're healing and you need to isolate, you know, like maybe use
crutches for a while and you can put the crutches aside and hobble around on your foot. It's just,
there's a reason why the doctor has you off of that foot for a while because it needs to heal
and not be damaged or else it can like recur, right? And so they'll have people come in and like
some of them will even bring wheelchairs to the situation where like James Randy spotted W.V.
Grant having outside of his service, an entire truck pull up and start unloading wheelchairs.
And when people would come in who are like elderly or maybe who had a cane or something,
you'd be like, here, this will be more comfortable for you while you wait. Why don't you sit in this
wheelchair? And then they'd roll them to the front and he'd be like, in the name of Jesus,
you're going to be healed and you know, your hips are going to be better rise out of that
wheelchair. And it looks like this phenomenal, impressive stunt that they just pulled. But
then you stop and you realize like, oh, that person isn't doing anything that they couldn't
already do. Or maybe they have a rush of adrenaline and so they're able to do something
that, you know, they could do, but like they could do with a lot of pain. And now they're able
to do it without. So I had, I had the problem is is people, people like kids, they see what they
see something on TV and then they go replicate it. It's like, people will see these things and
they go replicate it. I think I told you last time you're on or I mentioned it before on the
podcast that we had someone who broke their neck in our church in a prayer meeting. They cut off
the cast of his neck and they dug their knuckles into the broken bone to prove that it was healed.
Look, doesn't hurt, doesn't hurt. And he was healed for two days until he got rushed back to hospital
when his neck screwed up again. Now, and we're all trying to work out what was the sin that he had
in his life that made it, that made that happen when in reality he was probably in a brace because
he couldn't move it because it was likely going to get damaged again if he did move it. The other
thing too is like miracles. I just lost my train of thought. But while you're different, yeah,
sorry, go, go. While you're saying that there's in terms of the neck brace, I've seen people like
Benny Hinn do that as well, where they'll take off the neck brace of someone and they'll sometimes
they'll vigorously shake their neck around to show and to prove that they're healed. And the person
in the moment, they're getting such a shock and such a jolt. And it's really harmful. It's really
dangerous too, depending on like the severity of the break. Even if you don't have to shake
someone's neck around is like even when I was when I was doing karate back when I was a little kid,
you know, they would they would teach you about like your neck can be really you can't you shouldn't
shake around someone's neck. It can be really bad for you. So what you're saying there about
people calling out calling out things I mentioned this before. But you know, my wife and I went
through IVF without without baby. And for a long time, we went through five years of fertility
treatment. And we because my Amy has endometriosis. Now a friend of ours went to who's like a
fundamentalist Christian went to a church and the church said had had a prophet coming the following
week. And someone came up on stage and said, This prophet is coming. And God just told me
that there is someone here who has a relative who has endometriosis, who needs to be healed of
in God wants to heal him next week, if they come along to this service. So this was something like
a year ago, year or two, like a little while ago. And Amy and I were in the depths of our like,
you know, heartbreak getting let down after let down after let down with our fertility treatment.
And it was actually really hard for us to hear that because not that we believed anymore. But it
was, it was like, it hit too close to home. And it even asked like someone who like, we're both
thought through our positions, and we don't believe in God. And even for us that made us feel
like this, what if it is real? Like, what if it is real? And this can help us. And that was
you know, that was fertility treatment. That wasn't like terminal cancer. That wasn't like,
you know, and I remember talking to my roommate about it. And I said, you know, would you would
you go to this thing? And she said, No, no, why? Because I live in reality. And I was like, Okay,
and like, that was pretty funny joke or whatever. But the thing that really got me to reconsider
the idea that this could even be a thing. And this is the next thing I kind of want to talk about
is the ethics of faith healing. And in this in that circumstance, I remember thinking to myself,
if God could heal Amy of her fertility stuff, I would say don't I would say don't please don't
heal Amy, like go stop that child from being raped, go stop that, go give food to that starving child,
use your powers for something more important, we can go through we were in a first world country,
we have money, we can go we can, we're not rich or anything, but we can go through the medical
needs to get to fix Amy's issues, go save someone who's actually needed saving. And I remember
it was when I realized how disgusting this if this if this if the if God was was coming to
intervene, saying, I'm going to heal this person if they come to this church, when I realized how
disgusting that was, when there are people being raped, murdered, abused, starving cancer in the
world. I realized that I realized that I didn't agree with that even on ethical level on an ethical
level, I was like, no, there's also a tremendous amount of let down that you feel when you're not
healed, when you go and everyone else seems to be healed around you, and then you're not.
And there's a tendency to blame yourself because what the faith healers will tell you is that, oh,
if you weren't healed, it's because you don't have enough faith, or because there's some sin in your
life, there's something holding you back, and you need to confess it, or you need to come forward
and believe. And some of these people come time and time and time again, some of them have been
coming for, you know, 10 years to faith healing crusades, just desperately hoping that that night
is going to be their night. And they're convinced so wholeheartedly convinced. And they will do
all kinds of acts in order to show and demonstrate some of them will throw away their medication or
throw away their their crutches ahead of time, throw away their their glasses, believing that
they're going to receive a miracle. And then they wind up either hurting themselves because
they are now doing without the medical treatment that they desperately needed, or they at the
very least wind up having to spend more money to go and, you know, get new glasses. Some of them,
and one story I heard of a guy who like threw away his glasses, desperately needed them because
he was legally blind without it. And then he's like, I'm gonna, in faith, I'm gonna drive. And
he like drove and wrecked into another car. Oh, so like, it's, it's not just affecting you and
yourself. They're believing it to such an extent that it's it's harming others around them. And
this is happening at scale, where like, these faith healers are putting out these messages and
like, millions of people are seeing it on TV. And, you know, thousands, tens of thousands are
showing up to the auditoriums and getting these messages. So it's it's the the the level of harm
that it does goes far beyond just robbing people's money. And on top of that, you have have situations
where people, they're not only blaming themselves, but now, because they have something that's visible
that they're not healed of, there's a certain amount of shame that comes along with that,
and a certain amount of guilt where everyone can see that they're not healed, and everyone is looking
at them and blaming them. Like, there must be something wrong with you. And so they'll they'll
go home and just like, you can imagine the level of depression that that can lead to. And like,
one girl, I think it was Grace Spurla, Spurla or something, who she there was a CBC, like,
Canada documentary on on Benny Hinn. And they featured her and she was like, in a wheelchair,
because her her spine basically had severe curvature of the spine. And she's like paralyzed in
a wheelchair. And she can kind of move her hands a little bit. But like, she's she's not able to get
up and walk or move out of that wheelchair. And she got turned away at a Benny Hinn crusade,
and they wouldn't even let her come to the front. And, you know, she's praying and desperately hoping
for a miracle and stuff. And like, for years, she's thinking that like, God is going to heal her
and wondering why he's not. And eventually she realizes that like, a lot of these guys are
these faith healers, like it's a scam and it's a con. And yet she still has people regularly come
up to her and ask her now she's she's learned to kind of embrace and accept her condition. And
she's like, I'm going to live to the best of my ability, I'm going to live my best life and do
the things that I can with what I with what I have. And it's her story is incredibly inspiring.
Like, if you go and just like, look her up on social media, like she has done things you would
be blown away to see that she's been able to pull off in her condition. Like,
what do you call it, tandem skiing, where she'll be like in a sled in front of someone and they're
skiing behind her. And like, go up in a helicopter to the top of a mountain and ski down. It's
incredibly inspiring. It's really cool. But she still will have people come up to her and be like,
can I pray over you? And she's just like, please don't like, I've gotten this so many times. And
it's just, you know, I just want to be seen as a human and not as yeah, your potential miracle.
Yeah, you know, so it's so true. So, so I know that there might be people that probably left by
now, because we've done a lot of shooting on people on faith healers, which fair enough, great.
But there are probably people who maybe started this episode thinking,
well, we know that there are scammers out there. We know that there are faith healers that are
con men. But I experienced a real miracle or my auntie experienced a real miracle. And we even
have some in the chat. So Captain Dadpool said, let me just find it. I am reading everyone's
comments by the way. I had a professor in college say that he prayed away over someone with a tumor
and the tumor fell off. Is I wonder if that person is just if you're remembering it right or
because I remember there's a story of Smith and Wigglesworth doing that, which most of them,
by the way, have been completely unverified. And, and, and yeah, I can go into Smith and
Wigglesworth, but I won't. But what do you say to someone who's like, no, I prayed for something
and and it happened like you can't deny my experience. What do you say to someone like that?
I mean, in situations like that, it's difficult to approach a specific person who wholeheartedly
believes it. But more often than not, what I encounter is people who say that they had a
miracle, but kind of deep down inside, they know that there's a plausible explanation for it. And
I have seen time and time again, where there was an initial misdiagnosis where there was,
you know, something having to do with like placebo effect. Maybe the tumor was benign and
not malignant. Maybe there was something that they thought was a tumor that wasn't that maybe
they didn't actually go to the doctor, but they just had a lump and they assumed it was a tumor.
But without a medical diagnosis, then like, how do you know? I've seen situations where
they're prayed over in addition to getting medical treatment. So they're going in for chemo and
they're going in, you know, for radiation or something. And they also then happen to go to a
faith healer, but then they attribute their healing to the faith healer rather than to what
actually healed them. And then there's also cases of spontaneous remission, where whether or not
you're prayed over, there's a certain percentage of cancers that will your body will naturally
fight and they will go away on their own. It's not a very high number, but it's a significant
enough number that if you realize that I forget that the percentage of the population in the U.S.
that's real, I think it's like 70% that's religious. And if most of them are Christian,
then a lot of those people when they get cancer, that's a significant, you know, countless numbers
of millions of people who are all turning to prayer. And if they're all turning to prayer,
and even if like 0.5% of them have spontaneous rates of remission, then every single one of
those stories is going to attribute their healing to the prayer that took place. But if you just
looking it up on Wikipedia, one in 100,000 cancers, estimated to fall under spontaneous
regression. And if you look up statistically, because this is something that there are studies
that have been performed both on prayer itself, as well as on faith healing. If you look at the
rates of quote unquote, miracles that have taken place at lords, which is like a pilgrimage site
where people go because they think it's a holy place where they're going to be healed. And people
will go in huge numbers, you know, every single year, thousands and thousands and thousands of
people will go hoping for a miracle at this the spring or whatever it is. And so they go to lords
and it's spelled like L O U R D E S. And if you look at the number of people who have gone
hoping for miracles, and the number of people that actually have quote unquote miracles,
it's this astronomically tiny, tiny, tiny, tiny number that is exactly about what you would
expect or less than what you expect from spontaneous submission. Right. That was in
a Richard Dawkins documentary, I'm pretty sure. Yeah, he touches on that. There's a couple of
other places that mentioned that. And it's like, okay, so you look at that, and then you look at
prayer studies that are done in hospitals for recovery from like heart conditions. So there
was one study that was funded by the Templeton Foundation, which is actually a religious
organization that funds different studies. But they'll actually, they tend to fund
actual rigorous research, but a lot of times having to do with religion or having to do
faith and stuff. And with this study, they looked at cases in a bunch of different hospitals,
where some people received prayer and knew that they were being prayed for. Some people
who received prayer didn't know that they were being prayed for. And some people didn't receive
prayer at all. So they have like control groups to kind of compare to. Yeah, yeah. And the people
who received prayer and knew that they were being prayed for actually fared the worst in terms of
recovery, which is completely the opposite of what you would think. And it's like, okay, maybe,
I don't know why that would be like, maybe they felt pressured and like the stress. Yeah,
that's the hypothesis that they felt like, I better be good because God's like, you know,
and then stress them out. Yeah. And like, there's, there's some like, you know, small studies here
and there that might show like a little bit of a positive correlation with prayer. Some of them
show a negative correlation with prayer. But it's like, you look at it overall, and it's like,
there's absolutely nothing here when you have a good study and you only look at like
the studies that are done properly, where like the sample size is, is significant enough,
where they are actually double blinding it, where they are actually like, you know, where the
the methodology of the study is, is, is proper. And there's nothing there that you would like,
that you wouldn't expect in a natural scenario. So the heart study that you just mentioned,
that was by the Templeton Foundation, wasn't it? Are they sponsored by the Templeton Foundation,
I believe? Right, which was, which is a Christian organization, or a, is it a Christian or a
Fiesto organization? I believe that that like, I believe John Templeton was, he was religious,
and when he started his or established his foundation, he wanted to invest in like,
don't quote me on this. I know that he had a religious agenda. But
I don't know the full history behind it. Yeah, okay. Courageous said,
only someone who said in Africa, they prayed for a man 10 days straight and watched his foot grow
back, but then followed up with, they didn't have any proof. And that's, I've heard that story,
I've heard stories similar to that. I've heard someone say that they saw someone raised from
the dead, or they heard of someone raised from the dead, and they trust the person that told them.
And these were like home church peeps, these weren't big, big church peeps. I've also heard the
story, and this is a bizarre story, it was in Madagascar, a friend of mine was a missionary there,
he nearly died of malaria twice. And he, he was like really living in the, he was really doing the
missionary lifestyle. And there was a story, apparently it was on the news, I don't know why
we can't find any footage of it, where this man was sleeping with a witch doctor, and then decided
to go back to his wife, the witch doctor got angry, cursed him, his dick is turned into a snake,
or some form of a snake with teeth, and would bite into his leg. I would get that checked out.
So they, so they strapped it to, they strapped it to his leg. So because he kept moving around
on his pants and biting his leg. And then they, and then they, they went to a prayer healing,
whatever, they prayed for it, and it went back to a normal dick, right? But then the dick wouldn't
work anymore. Okay, so then like he wouldn't get an erection anymore. So they went to another
faith healer to get these ability to get erections again back. And I remember telling
someone about this when I was a Christian, and they weren't a Christian, they just said,
I don't believe that. And I was like, what do you mean? My friend, my friend saw it,
and I remember being so convinced of this like dick demon, dick demon thing. But I would love
to look, Hey, if there was evidence of that, like, let's look into it. That's, that's amazing.
Like you'd think with all these things happening with smartphones around, you'd see this stuff.
There's, there's a couple of things that a lot of times you'll see these faith healers on shows,
like, you know, the Trinity broadcast and stuff where they'll be talking about like, oh man,
you know, there's this today, you see so many, you know, incredible resurrections going on in
Africa and all this stuff, because they actually the faith there is vibrant and they believe it,
and it's real and it's raw. And you can't deny all these miracles in Africa. In the US, we just
don't have the same level of faith. And that's why you don't see it here. Yeah. And that's really
convenient because in Africa, one, there's, there's less likelihood of the, the people having the,
the medical access in order to verify before and after with the condition, especially in,
in villages where there's tremendous poverty, Africa is that's such a broad, like I apologize
for painting in such broad brushes because in the town of Africa, yeah, because obviously there's,
there's incredibly wealthy individuals in Africa. There's incredibly wealthy cities that are not.
Yeah. Yeah. You know, it's not, it's not like slums. Yeah. Yeah. But when you have these faith
healers that are going to, oh, this village that doesn't have health care access and oh,
we saw this great, wonderful miracle. And it's like, okay, what's, what's the proof who, who
looked into it? Was there a, you know, an actual unbiased journalist who went and reported? The
other thing is too, that a lot of these countries, you look at the case of, what's his name?
Is it Mubarak? Something that was, he was a, a skeptic in Nigeria that got arrested. And because
he was basically questioning the faith. And so if, if you have countries that have blasphemy laws
or that have these inherent protect protections built in to protect these faith healers, and
they're incredibly powerful, like some of the, the wealthiest faith healers in the world live in,
in different parts of Africa, South Africa, Nigeria, et cetera. And they'll have, they'll fly these
private jets. They'll fly fricking private jets. And they, you know, they're, they're praying over
people and they have these huge broadcasts and stuff. And some of them have connections with
the local police department, the local government, the local, and, and because everyone is religious,
or at least there's like a 95% or 98% religiosity rate, then it's, it's seen as this horrible
stigma and taboo to criticize them. And so the press is, is hesitant or scared to speak out.
There was one journalist who, who spoke out about Alf Lucau and literally received threats.
Him and his family received threats for speaking out against the students.
You would wonder, you would expect these people to want to get like things verified, right?
Something I want to quickly mention is I put out a call to Michael Jones, which to be fair,
I don't think Michael Jones actually believes miracles happen today. He said that outright.
So I don't know why I tweeted to him, but maybe you could tweet that to his followers.
Capturing Christianity Cameron, a bunch of, bunch of apologists. And I said,
Hey, I want to hear about a miracle story that happens today. I sent this out to local churches.
I sent it to my Facebook followers twice. I sent it down to Twitter like three times.
Nothing. I made this little form anonymous miracles. What's your testimony?
And would you like to be discussed further? I can't get any information from this.
There's one response. It's from me that says I went to school because I was testing it.
So now given, of course, people aren't going to want to go onto my channel because I'm quite
critical of religion and tell us the miracle stories. However, surely there's something,
there's someone that can verify something so I can, because I want to look into these things
unbiasedly. I want to look into these things. Okay. Like what could be the reason for this?
Is it possible that God's healing you or something? Yeah. And I've seen a couple of
things that to me really taint the, and we can laugh about the fact I said taint later,
but it really taints the well when it comes to eyewitness testimony and people's first-hand
accounts or second-hand accounts. One is there is a tremendous incentive to exaggerate or lie
because you feel like this person's soul is on the line. And by telling them about this
miracle story, you are potentially convincing and winning this person over. And so if, let's say
that you see someone who's prayed over and they say, oh yeah, I feel better. My pain is gone.
Then all of a sudden that person was cured of cancer. Or if you see something or maybe
you never followed up with it, you never verified it, but you're like, oh yeah,
loads of people followed up and verified it because you're already convinced that it's true.
And you don't think that you're necessarily lying because you already believe in miracles. You
already are set in this mindset. And so you saw the person pray over them in the moment. You didn't
see them go to the doctor. You didn't see the results afterwards. And there's a tremendous
disintimizing factor for the person who goes to the doctor afterwards, after they get their
results back from the doctor to go back to the church and tell anyone that it wasn't a real
miracle because that might harm other people's faith. And that's seen as a bad thing and a
scene is negative because it might destroy the faith healer's reputation. And you don't want
that to happen because you think that they're genuine and they're sincere and maybe they are,
but maybe they're sincere. But you think that by showing that your thing wasn't a real miracle,
then it's like, but all the other miracles were. So is that going to make people look
differently at me because I didn't get healed because my miracle wasn't lasting? People are
going to start thinking that I have some sin in my life or that I didn't have enough faith and that
there's something wrong with me. And so you don't have people coming forward afterwards being like,
hey, my miracle wasn't real. But I'll tell you, like right now, as someone who has experienced
quote unquote faith healing and had faith healers come and like, I had this guy have a bunch of
people surround me and they all laid hands on me and prayed over my shoulder and they're like,
you know, oh, your shoulder's going to be healed. And in the moment, it was like, oh my God, it's,
it feels better. It feels good. Like the pain is gone. And then like, a few minutes later,
it's like, it's back. This is weird. Why, why is, and it was exactly in keeping with the effects
that you would expect if you had adrenaline and so plus you have when people are touching you,
they're laying hands on you, you have oxytocin, which has a calming effect. It's like the love
chemical when you have like skin on skin contact, or you just hug someone or something.
You have learning all about that now pre birthing courses. Yeah. Yeah. So, so you've, you've got
you know, oxytocin, you have norepinephrine or adrenaline, which is like fight or flight,
you know, because you're, you're like, Oh, I have to move to the front. I like all these eyes are
on me. I'm like, you know, kind of scared and you know, heightened hair standing up on the back
of my neck. And oftentimes people will, they'll describe their experience as I had, I felt like
a warmth washed over me. I felt like I had, you know, and it's, it's this, this hit of dopamine
where all of a sudden there's kind of this relief of, Oh, the person's laying hands on me and there's
this, this rush of adrenaline. There's this rush of dopamine. There's this rush of, of cortisol,
the stress hormone. There's this rush of oxytocin and this entire chemical cocktail
is going on in addition to other things that are firing in your brain.
And you, you, you're set up and primed to believe because you're seeing all of these other people
in the front row that are all falling over when they have their hands, you know, hands laid on them.
And so you're already in a way kind of hypnotized into it. It's, it's almost this like, you're already
kind of believe it, but then if you weren't suggestible enough before the people who are
in the front row, because they really buy into it and you're seeing the effect that it has on them.
And then you have this flood of cocktails and you're surrounded by people and you're up at the
front and you're crying and you're in an emotional state because the music is going and it's just
like this whole situation that's been set up for you to have this experience. And so you're like,
I had a miracle, but then 10 minutes later, 20 minutes later, it goes away, but you're like,
wait, did it really go away? And I just like, do I need to pray harder? And I don't know if it would
be possible for God or God's presence to be in a room and not everyone experience it. I don't know
why some people can be in the back of the room and be just arms crossed. I don't know if you can
just not open your heart and then God's, you just can cut off God. Like that seems weird to me.
Also another thing, take everything you just said, right, but imagine yourself growing up in a
poor village in Africa and then a big white man with all his lights and crazy,
crazy stage and all this stuff comes and puts on this big show and tells you about this,
this miracle, right? Imagine putting yourself, coming, coming to the front in that, you know,
talking about, someone of a different culture talking about these things. It just, yeah,
it adds to, it adds to, to people's, like the, to the experience for people. I remember being in
Vanuatu as a, as a teenager and me and two of the youth went away and we went to this poor village
that we just got invited into by the kids, we're giving out red frogs or whatever. And there's
a lady with crippled, her legs were twisted out and they're crippled. And we tried to pray for her,
you know, her, her, her heart was about the size of like smaller than this office and it was made
of tin and cardboard. And we're praying for her trying to get her legs to stop being twisted.
She couldn't walk. She was sitting in mud and we're praying for her and it didn't work. And I
remember one of the, one of the youth were with said, ah, God told me why it didn't work. And I
said, why? And he said, because we were white and she would have thought that, that it was the white
man that healed her when she wouldn't, God wanted her to know that God can heal her. And I was like,
oh, that makes so much sense. So yeah, I just remembered that, just remember that then.
I have a similar story, but it was, so I went to this, it was kind of this retreat in college.
And, you know, we're like a typical college retreat, a lot of prayer, worship, you know,
reading the Bible, listening to, to messages and stuff on, you know, the Bible. And there was one
guy there who everyone thought he was a prophet. He was kind of the, the, he was the group prophet,
like of our, of our friend group. And it was a pretty charismatic group that I was in to begin
with, like pretty much everyone believed in miracles and faith healing and, and, you know,
prophecy and all of that. And that, that everyone could have access. But this guy in particular,
everyone's like, oh yeah, he's the real deal. And I thought, I thought he was too. But then
in the moment, we're all kind of like just hanging out and like after the worship and we're all
kind of dancing around and stuff. And I had just started taking gymnastics classes in college.
Yeah. And I did a backflip, but I undercut my backflip and I landed on concrete,
just short, just a little bit short. And my, my front toe completely just went up, like up and
out of place. Yeah. And I'm sitting there just like, oh, this is like, intense. But like, I would
rather break, there's a lot of bones, I would rather break besides like fingers, because you have a
lot of like nerve endings. And this, this prophet guy comes up and I was like, can you pray over it?
And he takes one look at it. And he's like, God is telling me that he wants to teach you a lesson
through this. And then like the, all these other people gather around and they start praying over
me and nothing happens. And then they go and they get the nurse and the nurse comes and just goes
bop and like pops it back into place and squints it up. And I was just like, what the hell? What
do you mean? Like, he wants to teach me a lesson. He can teach me a lesson with the street.
Oh, wow. Go see a doctor and get x-rays and stuff.
There was this guy once with this guy, we used to have a church. He's always run around rebuking
people for the most mediocre things. So like you'd say like, oh, damn it. And he's like,
I rebuked him in the name of Jesus. And you're like, why? Because I said, damn. And he said,
yeah. And you're like, oh, it's such a cheap way to feel superior over someone.
Like God wants to teach you a lesson. That's so great.
There was another time when I was up in Montana, visiting my aunt. And there was this, this kid
who, he was maybe like 12 years old when he, when this happened, but he was, he was riding his bike.
Like it's, he was, he rode his bike into a train.
I'm trying not to laugh, but at the same time, like, how do you not see a train? Like,
I guess when you live by the tracks, it's just like you, you get so used to it that train moving.
Yeah. The trade was moving and he rode his bike and it just boom. And he went flying up in the air,
came crashing down and he landed on his head. Oh, and his skull got pushed in,
like part of his school got like indented. Oh, he suffered severe brain trauma from it,
severe, um, severe head injury. And so, and I'm, I, I kid you not this, like,
I could find, probably find pictures somewhere of this kid, but basically his, he had his,
this indentation in his head completely like paralyzed in a wheelchair. He lived,
he survived the incident, but he lived, I don't even know if he made it into his 20s.
Like he lived several years after that, but like he was, you know, confined to a wheelchair.
And, and it was tragic because like his, yeah, less funny now loved him and stuff.
Do you say that's funny now? I said less funny now. Oh, less funny now. Yeah.
But I thought you were throwing some sarcasm and yeah, no, it's, it's a horrible story,
but I remember going over to his house and like his mom was there and my aunt was a pastor and
she's retired now, but like several other people and we're, you know, just seeing them and stuff.
And I was like, can I pray over him like for a miracle? And his mom, there was like part of
her that I could see just kind of like sunk inside where she's like, you can try as if like,
I haven't been pouring my heart out to God for the last like however many months. And then this,
this audacious kid comes in and thinks he's just going to like heal my son,
you know, have his head heal better. And I genuinely thought it would like I genuinely
had like the faith of a child because I was, you know, I was not that old myself at the time.
And so I like, you know, was praying and praying and praying and like both out loud and then in
my head and stuff and like nothing happened. And you know, the mom, you know, she's like, well,
you know, I've, I've learned to, you know, take things one day at a time and you know, I believe
that God helps us through struggles and stuff, but it was like she wasn't expecting at that point for
this, any kind of a miracle because every single person that comes along is like trying to heal
this kid. And she sees time and time again, it's like, oh, you're just, you know, doing what everyone
else is doing. And here we go again. But yeah. Geez, it's, it's, it's really rough. And at the
same time, though, we're kind of in the position right now of, of, for a lot of people who may
be watching this pulling apart something that's so dear to them and so, so important to them,
they believe that, you know, God is there for them. That's going to heal them and things like that.
So it's like, we're, we're put in the position of like, we're being dicks to people in a way,
but we're, it's like, we're trying not, it's like, we're trying to call out the dicks. Like,
we're trying to like point out like, Hey, this isn't, this doesn't work.
It's like when people say that a psychic, they're like, well, you know, it makes people feel good.
What's, what's the harm? You know, like, if someone wants to go to a psychic and it makes them
feel good to connect with their dead loved ones, or at least think that they're connecting with
their dead loved ones, what difference does it make? And it's like, well, on top of the fact
that these people are separating you from your wallet, and they have a financial agenda.
On top of that, you have the fact that it's like, something might feel good. It doesn't mean it's
good for you. Someone could, in the case of the psychics, they might need to be able to move on
and to, to accept the situation and to heal rather than have this kind of like addiction
breadcrumbed in front of them by someone who has the audacity to claim that they can speak for
someone that they love that passed away. And with the faith healer, it's like, oh, you know,
they're, they're, they're going to this person and like, they genuinely believe it and it makes them
feel better and they're comforted by the prayers and all of this stuff. It's like, well, but if
you're going to that and you think it makes you feel good, it, it might feel good. It doesn't
mean it's good for you in the same way that drugs might feel good, but it's not necessarily good
for you. It's, are you sprinkling false hope in front of someone, kind of luring them along,
draining them of their money. And then if they're not healed, making them feel guilty and awful
and horrible, even if you're not deliberately doing that, they're still coming away with that
feeling because that's the, the way that this plays out. And it's, you're, you're, you're seeding
them with false hope and they're, there's inevitable disappointment waiting.
It very much so. There's so much more I wanted to touch on, especially going into the miracles of
Jesus and talking about humor a little bit, no testimony, sufficient to establish a miracle,
et cetera, and how we can verify miracles, but we're running out of time. So I want to jump
into the Q and A. If anyone has any questions, make sure to post them. Someone also is sorry.
I was going to say, while, while you're, you're going through Q and A, there's one thing that I
want to add to this that I think is important to touch on. And these, these miracle accounts,
they're not unique to Christianity by no means. So I was looking for miracles online and most of
them seem the ones that most of the faith healers seem to be Christian faith healers. Yeah. So
there's, there's a, there's a Muslim faith healer that's pretty well known named Mala Ali. It's Mala
Ali. It's spelled like M-A-L-A space, A-L-I space, K-U-R-D-I-S-T-A-N-I. And he does the same,
he pulls the same stunts where he'll like put his hands on someone's ears and be like, oh,
you know, you know, you're going to, you're going to be able to hear now, you're going to be able
to hear now, or like you're going to be able to speak now, you know, stand up and walk. And it's,
it's the same types of stunts that you see being pulled by someone like Jack Cove
60 years or not 60 years ago in the 50s. How long ago was that? Almost 70 years ago.
And so you're, you're seeing all these same things. There was, there was a guy in India
who has millions of followers to this day. People genuinely believe that he had, you know,
miraculous powers. And he would pull like these dust pellets out of the air and it'd be like,
oh, here's this miraculous sign for you or some healing for you or some word of prophecy.
And the dude prophesied his own death and he got the date wrong.
Yeah. And how many?
He also said he would come, you know, also said he would come back, but he didn't.
Yeah. Yeah. And, and so people will, they'll turn to these gurus, they'll turn to, you know,
whether it's a witch doctor or a pastor or, you know, some emom, and they think that there's
some power in the divine. And in actuality, it's, it's nothing but up here. It's, our brains are
incredibly powerful. There is a placebo effect that can happen in situations where there's a
psychosomatic element to it. But when you're talking about organic conditions, when you're
talking about things like organ failure or, you know, cancers or, you know, the body being like
twisted or broken in one way, shape or form, complete total blindness, like retinal detachment,
you're not going to see a faith healer be able to come along and change that. You just won't.
Captain Dudpool said, I once prayed over someone for healing and they claim they felt a warm
sensation and the pain went away. You have experienced that as well. I just want to mention
to this guy, uh, Satya Sai Baba, he used to make, um, like Rolexes and watches form in people's
hands and golden stuff. When he died, they checked out his, um, his place and he had like hundreds
of watches and gold jewelry, just like chilling there with like, um, barcodes and stuff. Uh,
and the other thing too is, um, people say, you know, especially we'll point to Jesus and say that,
you know, they saw, you know, there's testimony of Jesus, the empty tomb, him raising from the dead
and stuff. And that's a whole other conversation. Uh, and they believe it. But
Satya Sai Baba, you can interview the people that he rose, he raised from the dead. You can
interview them, right? There's four people, like they're still alive today. Like this one person
died twice. They're still, they're still there. Like, like, and a million people rocked up to his,
um, was it birthday or funeral or something? Like he had a large following of people.
And, um, yeah, you can, you can go and watch this footage and it's the same, it's the same
stuff that like a magician pen and teller or someone might do where they're,
you know, kind of palming something and then look behind your ear.
Look at this corner. I just like pulled out of nowhere.
So, um, everyone, uh, just before we jump into the Q and A, I wanted to say make sure you go,
everyone would have subscribed to your channel. You're one of the biggest, uh,
skipping channels on YouTube. I'm Holly Kool-Aid. You're this episode here, the miracles that
always fail. Um, go check it out. Um, get those views up, uh, because you haven't been posting
in a while. So, um, you, you mentioned in one of your videos that the more people who watch,
like and follow and things like that, it helps the algorithm, uh, because YouTube likes to punish
people who don't stick to a daily schedule. Um, but go subscribe to Holly Kool-Aid. Also,
if you want to support his work, he's got a patron linked in the description. Uh, and also,
uh, for those who don't know, who've maybe never been to this podcast before, this is a podcast
where I asked the guests to choose their drink of choice. We drink it over deep conversations.
And next week we have Michael Granado, a PhD candidate, and we're going to be talking about
the history of time. What is time? And, uh, we're going to be talking about time and getting a little
bit woo with that and a bit more sciencey woo than woo woo. So that'll be a good one. So come
along and enjoy and thanks everyone for rocking up. So let's jump into some Q and A questions.
Um, so the question that I have for you now, this is last time you're on, I asked you,
um, I asked you what, if anything, would change your mind, right? That's the question I tend to
ask all guests. Uh, I also asked you, what's your favorite afterlife? Um, if you can choose an
afterlife and you said the egg by, um, that author, I read the book by the way, Andy Weir,
Andy Weir. Yeah. Now this is another question that's, that's come up. Um, that's really great
because you can ask both a fierce and a non-theist. And this is a question I like to ask people.
What is the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in?
Uh, that's a good question. The most plausibly true.
I, I'm, I tend to be more drawn to Buddhism because it's, it's more of a philosophy than
it is necessarily a religion, but there's so many different shades of Buddhism. Um,
so I was, I was talking to, to one of my friends from Thailand about it and she was
talking about all the different nuances of how within Christianity and Islam, we have
so many different denominations and stuff. And you have some people that are
Buddhist who genuinely believe in, you know, the book of the dead and the supernatural and
all this afterlife stuff. And then other people can literally be Buddhist atheists who just,
they, they love the balance. They love like the middle way and the, you know,
the philosophy of it. So like there, there's aspects within Buddhism that I find appealing,
but then there's other sides of it that I don't. Um,
I don't know, it's as far as most likely to be true. Nothing with deities unless
the deity is like some sort of highly technologically advanced civilization.
So Scientology.
I knew you're going to go there. The second I said that, I was like,
we're not going to plug Scientology.
If, if, if it wasn't so controlling and culty and then minus the whole like however many
billions of years ago, a volcano exploding with all the faintings and the souls going out in
bad spirits and getting clear and all of that, like, sure.
Yeah. I'm trying to think what other, what are their religions?
Cause I mean like Christianity is basically Judaism with extra bullshit. Islam is Christianity
with extra bullshit and Mormonism is all of it with extra bullshit.
As Hinduism, as Buddhism, Sikhism, Jainism, um, Taoism, I don't know enough about,
I don't know enough about Taoism. It's just like the forces of like light and darkness,
good and bad, like in a constant, you know, struggle. Sure.
There's like Greek mythology, Egyptian mythology, Norse mythology.
Possibly, um, some kind of pantheism where it's like, uh,
if, if I were to, if I had to choose a religion and it's like, okay, there's no like specific
dogma, there's no specific book, there's no specific interactive deity, but it's kind of like
the universe was all somehow interconnected. I don't see a, I mean, people love to go into
quantum stuff and like, oh, quantum entanglement. Therefore, all the universe you're connected
with this and that is like, okay, but how does it affect me aside from the measurable forces that we
know exist? Is it conscious? Is it thinking it through? Is it like, oh, hey, I, I am the
universe and the energy. And so I'm going to somehow consciously decide that this karma
thing is going to happen because I'm like keeping track and keeping score. That's too close to me to
a omniscient deity. Um, but if it's that, hey, we're somehow connected with this world and there's
like a butterfly effect to our actions and that there's karma exists, not in the sense of
it's this conscious thing that the universe is telling, but more in the sense that if I'm a
dick to other people, they're not going to want to hang out with me and spend time with me and
so my actions have consequences, then sure. Okay, so what one?
Um, I guess a very watered down version of pantheism. Yeah, okay, cool. So just pantheism,
like in general, it's like not like a specific pantheism. If I have to choose deism, deism,
perhaps highly advanced alien civilization created it. And then they went off to some other
dimension. That's my religion of choice. Interesting. Interesting. I think a lot of
people choose Buddhism and you know, I've been thinking about it and I think I might change my
answer to, um, the advice of Vendanta, which is the idea like everything is consciousness and
like what, like consciousness first material world, the realm isn't actually material.
That's probably where I'm maybe lean or maybe like a brain in the bat. Yeah. Yeah. Or like,
I think it's the Baha faith, but I really like the concept. I don't know if it's in Buddhism or
something, but it's like where the story comes from, but it's like the Buddhism of the blind
man and the elephant where it's like everyone's touching this thing and they're describing
different parts of the elephant and they're saying, Oh, it's got a big, big nose and it's
got a big trunk. Sorry. It's got legs and they're all describing differently. So if there's a faith
that's kind of like that, that's like, you know, people are tapping into something, these emotional
experiences maybe, but there's like, you know, I don't, I don't know. What does that kind of be
like a sort of a branch of pantheism where it's kind of, it's all interconnected and divine?
I guess so. Yeah. Are you familiar with,
are we de-converting? Have you ever read God's Debris
by the guy who wrote Dilbert? The concept is basically that the universe that the big bang
and all of that was God had a question and this question was, what would happen if I kill myself?
What's it called? God's what? God's debris. So basically, God explodes and a whole let
there be light big bang type scenario and the universe is basically the universe is slowly
God putting himself back together again. That's cool. Yeah. That's a cool concept.
And then there's, I think if I had to choose a religion, it would either be something like that
or Isaac Asimov is the final question or the last question
where it's basically the universe becomes more and more and more and more advanced until
everything is part of like this collective internet consciousness, but it's not just at
like a planetary level. It's at like a cosmic level and the universe as we reach a complete
state of entropy and the last star is burning out, then that consciousness is so highly advanced
that it kick starts a new universe and says, let there be light. Interesting. You always leave me
with interesting books to read. Yeah. And so it's basically the question, the last question to be
answered is can entropy reverse itself? And even though we continue to gather more and more and
more information with more and more advanced supercomputers, this computer continues to answer
there's insufficient data for a reasonable answer. And finally at the very end, once it's collected
every single form of consciousness and person merging with this computer and it's so highly
advanced that it basically answers the question with the phrase, let there be light and kick
starts in the universe. But in that type of a scenario, it would be not a supernatural
deity, but a natural, highly technologically advanced entity that would be God. And so to me,
it's like if there is some kind of religion, either we are the first one of those and that if
that's even possible, if it's even something that could remotely exist, then there's where either
the result of that kind of a deity or we are the first one and the big bang had happened naturally
and we're forming into it. So if I had to be religious, it'd probably be something like that.
Interesting. That was a great answer to a question that's probably the best answer
we've had on that question actually. Very deep, I love it. Because we're at time now,
I'll just ask one last question. And I think this is important to get your input on is,
let's say someone is watching this and they want to investigate miracles that may be
experienced in their own life. When I say miracles, we know what we're talking about, right?
They want to investigate things that they attribute as miracles in their own life
and they want to determine whether or not they're true or false. What advice would you give to this
person? I mean, if it's a miracle that's done by a major faith healer, literally just Google search
for any kind of independent, like don't go to the person's website where they have like testimonies
because a lot of times that's curated the person, you know, in the case of Alpha Cow,
he literally got caught paying off people, multiple people to come and say that they were
cured of AIDS and they never were. And he forged documents and like he got caught in the act
doing this stuff. And if you watch the beginning of this episode and you're just now, or if you're
just now coming in at the beginning of this conversation, we talked about all of the different
faith healers that just the ones at the top, they get busted time and time and time and time again
for dishonest tactics and sometimes outright fraud. And so I'd say like if it's a big name
faith healer, don't go to their own website, look for some independent source. Oftentimes,
it's even other religious people who are calling them out like the Trinity Foundation. They have
a lot of information there on their website. There's a religious Christian guy named Justin
Peters who also does expose on religious people and groups like Bethel and stuff like that. And
so you can go and actually kind of learn a little bit more behind the scenes and kind of get familiar
with some of the trickery, watch my series, watch my videos on it. But also don't just take people's
word at it. You know, if someone realized that people have incentives and agendas and things
like that and people also misremember and people also tend to exaggerate and stories change from
one person to the next, dig deeper, ask more questions, track down the original person,
ask to see it and know that like videos can be doctored, videos can be fake, actors can be hired.
If there are plausible explanations for it, then being a skeptic isn't just about being like
completely contrarian and not open to evidence. It's saying that the evidence has to be proportionate
to the claim that's being made. So it's not just saying no, but it's also not being so open-minded
that you just accept anything. It's saying, Hey, is there a better explanation, a more plausible
explanation? Let's dig deeper and let's actually test if this stuff is true. And if you look throughout
history for, you know, going back even before the James Randi educational foundation, there were
churches that offered large prizes to people like Jack Koh that came forward and said, Hey,
we'll give you $2,500, which in today's dollars is like $25,000. If you can actually show and prove
under medical verification or under medical observation that a miracle is real, and he
turned him down and never came forward and actually proved it and then wound up going to the hospital
himself and dying of polio. So it's things like that, that it's like, if enough of these situations,
you see time and time and time again, where there is trickery and fraud and all this stuff. And then
even when people are sincere, we fool ourselves and we put ourselves in situations where our brains
can become susceptible to deception and where we're in chemically altered states, like not not from
a substance necessarily, although it could be, but just your natural neurochemicals that are
released, you're putting yourself into sober induced trans is you're putting yourself in a position
where you are highly susceptible. And it's like research a little bit more explore how this stuff
works, look for the mechanisms behind it, and don't just take someone's word for it, especially
if they stand to profit and stop stand to gain from you believing in it. That's the greatest
great advice, great advice also for people who are looking into natural healing, you know,
tumor root extract or whatever, whatever, rub garlic on your ankles four times a day with my
special. Anyway, thank you so much, Thomas for coming on. It's been absolute pleasure. It's been
really great getting to know you more and and and kindling a bit of a friendship as we talk about
these pieces of shit, as I say. Let's, if you could sign us off with your catchphrase,
that'd be absolutely great. Well, David, thank you so much for having me on and everyone, as I
always say, dare to be curious, but don't drink the Kool-Aid. Cheers.
you
