Ontological naturalism takes that a step further and says that the only things which exist
are natural things. Unless you're making a case of special pleading, you also have to accept literally
every single myth from every single culture that has ever existed.
I don't even know what tell me about the ancient Jewish novel life.
I'm not going to say like the supernatural does not exist and will never exist. I don't know that,
but what I do know is that thus far naturalistic explanations have revealed,
which to me strengthens a weak form of ontological naturalism.
So welcome everyone to the Deep Drinks Podcast where the drinks are deep,
but the conversations are deeper. Today we have the amazing
philosopher and teacher of philosophy and history. Oh my gosh, I'm already getting jumbled up.
Give a bit of an introduction. This is Michael Granado. He's a naturalist
philosopher who is also a history and philosophy educator with specializations in philosophy of
science. Michael is an advocate for naturalism, which says that all beings and events in the
universe and whatever the inherent characters may be are natural in origin. Michael is doing
Plato, Aristotle, and Francis Bacon's work by offering free philosophy and history education
on his YouTube channel. Link's in the description. Welcome, Michael Granado.
Well, thank you and also thank you for that very flattering introduction. I appreciate that.
I got a bit tongue-tied every say, but that's okay. Sorry about that.
If anyone doesn't know the Deep Drinks Podcast where the guests choose their favorite drink,
can we sip it together while we discuss deep topics? And today we have what you drank in
when you're going through your education, right? Yes, I started in high school. That's a different
topic for a different day, but it also got me through college. Yeah. Awesome. So it's Miller's
Light, right? But Miller Light, yeah. Miller Light. Unfortunately, we don't have that in Australia.
So we have, I could have ordered it in, but I didn't have enough time, but I have the other Miller
Miller, whatever it's called, which I think might be pretty similar. But because I'm an Australian,
and this interview might go for a while, I've double parked. Nice. That's important. So I've got
and this conversation is going to be awesome. I'm sure. So I don't know too much about the
philosophy of science. And so we're going to do a bit of learning today. But before we jump into
the philosophy of science, and we're also going to talk about the resurrection of Jesus, I wanted
to actually ask about yourself. What do you believe? Do you have any religious beliefs?
Do you, what got you interested in academic research and study? Why are you a philosopher?
It's a, yeah, let's unpack that, right?
Feel like I'm in my therapist's office.
What is wrong with you that you became a philosopher?
Actually, my wife had a psychology professor once that said that philosophy, people who
philosophize in the study of philosophy stems from a sort of mental illness. I don't necessarily
agree with that, but I also may or may not prove their point. So you agree and you don't agree.
That's right. Yeah, that's right. No, I am. And speaking of mental health, a bit of disclaimer
here, what got me into philosophy was largely result of what happened to me during my childhood.
So I will be talking about grief, depression, dealing with loss, just heads up, right? Awesome.
All that fun stuff. Yeah. Yeah. So I grew up in the United States, if you can, is the majority of
your audience Australian or you get a lot of Americans? A lot of them, no, most from American.
So I think, yeah, but it's starting to spread worldwide. We're taking over the world slowly.
Yeah. So you're the one with the accent, not me. I grew up in the Southern United States,
which is commonly referred to as the Bible Belt in the state of Georgia. My mother, I was raised
by a single mother. My grandparents were also an integral part of my life when I was younger.
My grandmother and my grandfather kind of grew up in very impoverished traditions. My mother
made very little money, raised me by herself, taking care of me, all that good stuff.
I kind of came to these questions at a really young age, largely as a result of the loss of my
grandfather and then subsequently my grandmother, both of whom who helped raise me. My grandmother
and grandfather would watch me while my mom went to work, that sort of thing. I lost my
grandfather when I was about four. And that was the first time that I can remember thinking
about death and about what happens after we die. And of course, being very upset about
the loss that I had experienced and is, you know, you're talking about a four-year-old,
anytime you're talking about children kind of confronting grief, it's a really messy,
complicated process. And my mother was not in a position financially, nor did she have
really the education background to understand. And when I was younger, not to date myself,
but mental health wasn't really like a thing that people talked about, right? Especially
in the part of the world where I lived. So I lost my grandfather and grandmother,
grandfather when I was four, grandmother when I was six. My father was kind of in and out of my life.
You know, not to, I don't want to break down a cry on your podcast here.
That's all right. Cry as much as you want. It's a safe space and we go booze, so it's all right.
The more booze I drink, the more I'll cry, probably. No, my father's, you know,
story of a lot of young American men kind of in and out of our life was an alcoholic. So speaking
of booze and died from liver failure when I was 13. So going into my teenage years, there were a lot
of questions about death, about grief. And I didn't really have an outlet for a lot of this stuff.
It was, you know, very confusing. And in my community, the place where you went to kind of
figure that out and to talk through that and to work through that was church.
And so the local church that I went to kind of became what the place and the pastors there would
kind of help me work through that I would go and I would meet with them. My mother like took me to
meet with them like on a regular basis because I had all these like questions and I was trying to
figure all this stuff out. And so I'd have regular meetings with our local pastors and
ask them about all of these things. And that's kind of what also led me into religion to accept
religion. I was a practicing Christian for most of my life, really. Oh, wow. I didn't know that.
Yep. In the Methodist church at one point in time, I was considering going into the ministry.
I went to theology school, all that good stuff. But yeah, so that's kind of what got me into
philosophy. Through Christianity, I came to philosophy because all the questions that I have,
they didn't stop. One of the biggest questions that I have classically put would be the problem
of evil. Why do bad things happen? Why do bad things happen to good people? Why do bad things
happen to children? Christianity provided a sort of answer to that, of course, but when you're
a Christian, the problem of evil is still a problem. So now the problem becomes, well,
why did God allow that to happen? And so that is through the lens of Christianity that I kind of got
introduced to philosophy, mostly when I was in high school. And then when I went to college,
my aspiration was to go to college to become a minister. And so I studied philosophy formally
at a state university. It wasn't a Christian university. I got a BA in philosophy. I've always
been relatively open-minded, at least I would like to think. And so it was in university that I
started getting introduced to all of these kind of non-Christian philosophers. The philosophy
education that I received was kind of focused on the history of Western philosophy specifically.
So we started with Plano, Aristotle, made our way through the Middle Ages, and then gotten to
modern and postmodern philosophy, that sort of thing. After I got my BA is when I went to theology
school. And again, I don't want to get too much into American politics, but this part I am willing
to talk about because it's human rights based. So roughly the time I went into theology school was
when the debates and arguments about gay marriage and the acceptance of homosexuality
in the church was kind of like ramping up. And so it was a really big conversation. And the school
that I went to, Emory University is kind of the bastion of liberal theology in the South. It was
like the beacon of hope and arguing that every human being ought to be treated as a human being
as radical as that sounds, right? So radical. Yeah, so radical. And a lot of the people that I
were going there with were people on the LGBT spectrum that were also going into the ministry.
So there was a lot of fantastic conversations, but at the same time institutionally, I was kind of
losing my trust and faith in the church as an institution, in part because I saw how some of
these people were being treated as second class citizens, right? Debates about whether or not
they should be in positions of church leadership, whether or not they should be allowed to be pastors.
And it's like, what? It was just, it was mind boggling that and combined with the kind of
intellectual aspect of learning about the historical origins of the Bible to back up
a little bit. And I'm talking a whole lot here. So feel free to go.
I just, just quickly, I was going to mention that I started laughing at the, when you started
mentioning that because the LGBT stuff, because I almost had, because we had a plebiscite in
Australia where we voted, like Australia voted on whether or not same sex marriage should be
recognised as law. And we were, I remember being on the precipice of my, on my faith at the time.
And I remember going into the conversations on Facebook with my Christian friends and I had
majority Christian friends and I said, I put out a little video and I said, hey,
obviously you can make theological claims about this. But if we were to remove those
theological claims, are there any downsides to society? And what I got was so many people
acting in the worst faith, not wanting to have honest conversations. There was one pastor who
was quoting the gay manifesto, manifesto. And, and we pointed out to him, this is a satirical
piece from the seventies. And then he would keep using it as if it wasn't a satirical piece.
And I remember 20, something like 23, I went through and counted 23 people had challenged
me because I questioned these things that challenged me publicly. And then I would start
replying to them politely with a lizard with smiley faces. And I'm just putting an
aspect about, you know, and they would challenge me. And then when we got to a spot where they
would have to either admit that they're wrong, or come up with another point, they would either
delete all their comments, or they will stop replying and I wouldn't message them or comment
them. 23 separate people. And I remember this really, really hurt me. And I walked away going,
is my faith really this dishonest? Like, is Christianity, like, is this just a club of
bigots who believe one thing and are unwilling to change their mind? And it really was a turning
point for me in my life. Because I also just, sorry, now I'm rambling on. At the same time,
at the same time as this was happening, one of my closest friends from Ministry College,
episode one of the Deep Drinks podcast, he mentioned to me, he said, what happens when my
parents die? Do I just kill myself? And I said, I said, no, he's like, what do I have to live for?
And I was like, what do you mean? And that really got me to like, okay, I need to look into this
from a biblical perspective, because this man's life on the line, I have other friends whose
life's on the line and their members of LGBT community. And they're literally like, this is
a life or death thing. And people were just treating it like memes and saying, why do they
have to have Mardi Gras disgusting? And I'm like, whoa, like, this is, this is unironically evil.
Like, I don't believe in evil. But anyway, so that was for me, that was a really big turning
point as well in my faith, because I just, I couldn't wrap my head around the Christian community
being, being the ones that were being so harmful to society and so dishonest. And that really hurt
me. Anyway, keep going, keep going. No, it's definitely relatable. For me, it wasn't so much
like a challenge to my faith, like my own personal faith and spirituality. It was more so,
like up until that point, I had my natural assumption was, because of, of how I grew up,
the, the, the only reason why we had Thanksgiving some years, the only reason why I had Christmas
some years was because of the help that the church gave us. And so that was more so like,
kind of like a don't meet your hero type thing. Like it was a, it was a tremendous, like I got
to see the ugly side of the church, like the really ugly side of the church.
What, what kind of challenged my faith in theology school was more so the, the theological
assumptions that I had brought into it, that up until that point hadn't necessarily been challenged.
The two big ones were biblical, this idea of biblical inerrancy was a huge one.
In Southern Christianity, specifically in the kind of evangelical flavor of Christianity,
there's this idea that the Bible has a kind of a special, in philosophy I would call this a special
ontological status that it's a, that's a holy book. Yes, it was written by humans, but those
humans were inspired. And in some of the church circles that I ran into, the Bible was treated
as infallible, right? That it couldn't be wrong. And ironically, it was the things that I learned
in theology school that started to undermine a lot of that. Yeah, I remember asking my pastor,
I was like, oh, what about the part, parts of the Bible that are wrong? And he said,
there are no parts of the Bible that are wrong. It's just that we don't understand why they're
right. Yeah. And I was like, okay. I said, okay. And I remember going, all right. And I walked away
and then, but years later when I was saying, I was basically, I was like, no, these can't be right.
This is like a marriage bachelor. This is, this has to be wrong, which is fine. Like it doesn't
mean Christianity is not true. It's just, it just means that it's not perfect. Anyway.
Yeah. And to be clear, I don't, to make it very clear, a lot of the people that I went to school
with, the school that I went to, there was a very open and welcoming environment,
especially for gay people. And a lot of the people that I went to school with are still
ministers, but it's a different view of Christianity than that's, that's commonly
presented of, of American evangelicalism, especially. And so start learning about the
history of the Bible, how the Bible was put together, the historical roots of the Bible,
cultural influences, influences from other civilizations, like the Epic of Gilgamesh,
the Animoleish, stuff like that. And then the other thing that started to kind of cause a division
in my own personal life, spiritual life was, I, it was in theology school that I started to
specialize in the history of science. And I started to focus in on the relationship between science
and religion. At my, in my theology school, that was mostly focused on modern science,
specifically the reception of Isaac Newton's Principia, Mathematica, and the ways in which
Newton's thought and understanding about the cosmos influenced how we think about God,
and also about how we interpret the biblical text itself. So there's a lot of really fascinating
dialogue that happens during this period. I'm going to save that for later because I'm about to
start talking about Galileo, and I don't want to start talking about Galileo yet. But to round out
this part of the conversation, after that, I went to and got a, so I have a masters of historical
theology, a masters in history, focused on the history of science, specifically the reception
of Darwinism in 19th century America. So more history science and relationship between science
and religion. And it was after I received my second masters that my mother died. And that was kind of
the, spiritually, that's kind of what broke me a little bit, not a little bit, a lot of it.
But educational wise, I'm now working on my PhD in philosophy, went back to philosophy,
where I'm kind of focused on what a branch of the philosophy of science, it's more
of a historical bent, focusing on early 20th century conversations by a French philosopher
named Gaston Bachelard, who was one of the first people to kind of talk about the
philosophical implications of Einstein's theory of relativity, and what that means for scientific
epistemology. And what it also means for other areas that are tangentially related to it, such as
ontology, and even things like logic and stuff like that.
How, when you, did you have like a moment, or like a, like a week period or something where you
realize that you no longer believed in God? Or was it, was it, was it just something that just
came about? Like, did you have like an aha moment, or was it something that, like, I straw the
birthday camel's back? It was, I can't say that there's one particular moment, it happened
over the course of a few years. My mother was diagnosed with terminal cancer, and I remember
a lot of the people in our community coming to visit her, and them kind of throwing out some
religious platitudes to me, like, you know, this is all part of God's plan, which, you know, by the
way, religious person, not religious person, don't. So insulting. I don't ever say that. It's so
insulting. Or another one is, like, love the sin, hate the sinner. Right, right. I feel like repeating
back to them, like, love the, love the, love the believer, hate the God. Because that's like,
that's insulting. It'd be so insulting to them, but that would be almost equivalent.
Yeah. Right. I mean, practically, it was kind of throwing out of religious platitudes, having
people pray for me and pray for my mother, and eventually, like, realizing, like, this means
nothing to me. Like, it's not, you know, practically, it's not doing anything for me. Like, I could kind
of rationalize, like, okay, well, the church might reject, like, have all these debates about
homosexuality, but, you know, the church is a political institution can be wrong, and I can
still believe in all this stuff, right. So that, you know, I could kind of compartmentalize that,
in a way. I think it would have been a different story if I identified as a homosexual, and they
were telling me that as a person, I'm, there's something not right with me inherently. I think,
I'm not to diminish that experience, because that would be, that would be horrible, right. But I
could rationalize that. But with what happened with my mother, it just kind of, I was a slow
realization that intellectually, spiritually, that I just didn't, didn't believe it anymore.
Right. And then it wasn't doing anything for me personally, and that I had really no desire to
keep, keep trying to, like, uphold these ideas of beliefs. Right. Wow. How did you do, so something
that I noticed when I stepped away from my belief system is two things. It was extremely hard. It
was one of the most heartbreaking experiences of my life. But it was also one of the most exciting
experiences I've ever been through. Did you find that it was, I mean, obviously, you were dealing
with the grief of your mother, lost your mother, but did you find that being able to identify
away from your old beliefs was actually a freeing thing? Or was it, was it hard, or how, how do
you cope with that emotionally? You know, I, I never really experienced it like that. My wife had
kind of, you know, not to put words in her mouth, but she had a, it was kind of a liberating
experience for her. She kind of found a lot of strength in it once she, like, was able to say,
like, I don't believe this anymore. I'm laughing because this is so much, I just interviewed
the last episode of, sorry, a couple of episodes ago, my wife interviewed the same thing with her.
She said, I think it made me feel better. And I was like, so we have very similar things in
your story, a very similar line. It's just interesting. Yeah, for me, I mean, there was,
so there was a period where it's not that I was angry. I'm not, like, really an angry person,
but there was a bit of a existential crisis, I guess, would be the best way to describe it,
because things that I had held to and believed for so long, I didn't believe those anymore. And
anytime that sort of transition happens with the person, regardless of what the belief was,
I think it has a tremendous impact on them. One of your core ideas and beliefs have fundamentally
changed. So you as a person are going to change as a result. But yeah, I can't say that I felt
it was, all of that was kind of eaten up by my grief. And so I don't think I really
processed all of that separately. I think it was just all there, kind of wrapped around
my own personal history. Yeah. Interesting. How do you feel now, though, now that you have,
like how long has it been since you've no longer believed in God? It's been about,
I had to think of what year it was. It's been about five years or so, five, six years.
Part of it is, part of it's refreshing, because I don't have to do as much like mental gymnastics
to justify things. Do you find that it's also the questions become more interesting? So like,
for me, I was, I was, I was not, not fully fundamentalist. I would have, I would have,
I believed in like Noah's Ark and all that stuff, but I hadn't looked into it. When I looked into it,
I quickly stopped believing in Noah's Ark. But, but like I would have, you know, I would have,
like someone said, how does Noah's Ark work? But God did it. And then that's the end of the
conversation. You know, like it's just kind of, but when you look, or like, you know, is
evolution or creation true? It's like, well, how do you explain this? God did it. And it's like,
well, evolution is like, well, actually, it's, you know, and you go right into the weeds and the
conversation is much more interesting. Have you found that as well? That it's like, it's not just
that you don't have to jump through hoops. It's that you can explore every avenue without the
baggage of having to like, cart along this faith that, you know, has to be protected.
Yeah, there is a certain amount of intellectual freedom that, that sort of mindset allows for
because kind of what you were saying, if you're not bringing this, if you're not bringing certain
presuppositions to the, not to sound like a presuppositionalist, but, you know, if, if, if,
if I approach science with the mindset, if I approach like biology with the mindset that,
you know, God had created each distinct species as completely separate and that, you know,
they, it slowly, maybe they changed a little bit over time, but not so much like it does kind of
open it up in the sense for it allows more in deeper kind of explanations and it allows you to
talk about and to explain things on its own terms, which leads to more robust explanations,
especially within the natural sciences. But also, honestly, the biggest change was not so much in my
intellectual curiosity, because I always kind of had that. I was just a naturally curious kid,
and I'm a naturally curious adult. And I've, even when I was a Christian, I would, you know,
stay up till like two o'clock in the morning, reading about like the French Revolution,
just because it like caught my attention, you know, but it, the biggest impact was on the,
the relationships that I had and how I viewed people more importantly, which is weird to think
about, but there was no longer this need to justify my relationships with people,
because I was going to like try to save them or something like that.
Like I could just enjoy them for being the person that they are.
Yeah. And I also didn't want, yeah, go ahead.
I was going to say, it was like also like if someone is being toxic to your life,
you can just remove them from your life. Like I used to have this like burden of like,
you know, you should help them and stuff like, no, no, like I came to the realization I have
a responsibility to my wife to be a great partner. If I come home moody, because I've got this toxic
person in my life that's affecting our relationship, I'm going to cut that toxic person in my life.
Which is, I mean, I don't, it's not like Christians can't do that, but it was for me,
I never used to do that. Well, so that's a very interesting story. I didn't know any of that.
And I'm glad I didn't look too much into your story, because I wanted to be like pleasantly
surprised. But I was wondering if you could give us a bit of an introduction, a short introduction
into naturalism and specifically the type of naturalism that you subscribe to, which is
provisional naturalism. And how does it like, especially on like how it relates, how it conflicts
with theistic beliefs, like does it conflict with theistic beliefs or not? Yeah. Right.
Just give us all the information in your brain in like five minutes. Give us your degree in five
minutes. I don't know if I could do it in five minutes, but I could explain some basic stuff.
So in the philosophy of science, the discussion about naturalism, this is applied to
the scientific method, like you've probably been hearing about the scientific method since you
were in like fifth grade, or this is American grading system, elementary school, we call it,
I'm not sure. But everyone knows like the scientific method. But approaching science
from a historical perspective, you can see how the scientific method kind of came about
and how it developed. And so approaching it from historical perspective, by the way, okay.
So you have the history of science and you have the philosophy of science and the two are,
in my opinion, kind of inseparable. So I'm going to be kind of intermixing the two of those.
They pretty much like had a baby. And then that's what science was, right? Kind of like.
Yeah, right. I'm getting a confused. No, like natural natural philosophy turned into science,
isn't it? Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, cool. So philosophy is the mother of all disciplines. And I'm not
saying that because I study philosophy like every discipline came from philosophy. Yeah, right. And
natural philosophy was the branch of philosophy that turned into what we call science today.
That happened in about the 19th century. If you were like to go back in time and talk to Isaac
Newton and say, what are you studying? Newton would tell you, I'm studying natural philosophy,
like that was the anyway. So in the philosophy of science, there's several distinctions with respect
to naturalism. The two big distinct distinctions, you have methodological naturalism and ontological
naturalism method a lot. And I can already see like people like stop listening when I was going
out definitions. Well, I know methodological naturalism. I know that okay, maybe explain the
two briefly, like the difference between the two. Yeah, no worries. You've actually already
explained methodological naturalism, I think. Methodological naturalism is an attempt to explain
nature in its own terms. So when you look at a natural phenomenon like an apple falling from
the tree, and you say, what caused that, right? The cause that made the apple fall is a regular
occurring thing that happens in nature. And you appeal to that regular occurring thing. Maybe you
attach a mathematical structure to that regular occurring thing that helps you to explain it.
But that's methodological naturalism. Phenomena in nature are explained through appeals to observable
empirical data and explanations. That's all that it means. As opposed to supernatural, right?
So ontological naturalism is that supernatural method? Okay, yeah. This is why the terms are
confusing. So methodological naturalism is an attempt to explain stuff in the natural world
by appealing to natural forces. Okay, natural causes. Ontological naturalism takes that a step
further and says that ontology is the branch of philosophy that deals with existence.
So it takes methodological naturalism a step further and says that the only things which exist
are natural things. Right, okay. So wouldn't methodological naturalism also inductively,
I'm not sure if it's deductively or inductively or whatever, but arrive at that conclusion
as well? Like if you were to press a methodological naturalist and you say, well, you have all this
stuff around you that looks natural, wouldn't that arrive at the same conclusion? Or is it just
that ontological naturalists are going, are just kind of presupposing that as like, this is what,
okay. So what you just described is the position that I support, which is provisional naturalism.
Okay, okay, okay. All right. So the position I support is that basically that methodological
naturalism leads to maybe not 100% ontological naturalism, but if you look at the history of
science, what we see is the increasing use of naturalistic explanations to explain any and
everything at world around us and a decrease in supernaturalistic explanations. So the probability
that ontological naturalism is true is going up. And the probability that the supernatural exist
or interacts with the world is kind of slowly going down, if that makes sense. Okay. So, all right,
so this is a, this is something I use all the time. I thought it's really useful time. If me and you
were two Greeks sitting down on the table and we could see lightning on the mountain, thunder on the
mountain, one of us might say, oh, that's Zeus making the lightning. And one of us might say, no,
that's actually this other pagan god that I worship or something doing this. And someone else
might say something else. Where in that situation, the correct answer might be none of those things.
We don't know what it is yet. And now we understand where lightning and thunder come from. And we
don't necessarily, most people, I want to be careful not to offend any people who still believe in
Zeus or Apollo or whatever. But because there are people that do and pagans, but let's say,
you know, with things, we come with a naturalistic explanation for things. And so when someone says
something like, you know, what is dark matter or something that we don't have an answer for yet,
that just, or what is, you know, quantum physics, like some really bizarre questions in that.
I stand on the position where I go, oh, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. We don't have
an explanation yet. I'm the Greek sitting there pointing at the mountain saying we can't say it's
Zeus. And is that what you're, is that similar what, is that what you're saying when you say
ontological claims are getting stronger in that every time we come up with an explanation,
it seems not to be a super, it's never been a supernatural explanation. Is that what
that's more naturalistic? That's a huge part of it. The other part of it is that supernatural
explanations have been tried in the past. And every time that they've been tried, they've consistently
failed. Yeah. So what do you mean by that? Could you go into what do you mean by they've been
tried? You know, like James Randy and he's like a million dollar experiment or what are you talking
about? That's interesting. Yeah, so a lot to unpack here. And let me, let me back up a little bit
because I've thrown a lot of, a lot of jargon out. And I want to make it clear that how I approach
this is not how every philosopher of science will approach this. I belong to a school of thought
that believes that philosophy of science ought to be grounded in the history of science. So
not everybody's going to agree with me there. And to go back to the methodological naturalism
distinction, not every philosopher thinks that methodological naturalism leads to ontological
naturalism. Even very famous atheist philosophers like Michael Rus will say that science presupposes
methodological naturalism and intrinsically separates itself from religion. That and this is
this was made famous by the biologist Stephen Jay Gould. He called this this is a some more jargon,
jargon and jargon and jargon. He called this non overlapping magisterium. Okay, that science has
its area. Religion has its area. And if you can view it as a Venn diagram, there's, there's no
overlap. They're talking about two very different things. I'm disagreeing with that. Right. So
Ron, I just want to say that, you know, not there, there are some very prominent philosophers of
science and both Gould and Rus are atheists. So it's not like there's a anyway, anyway. So
what I'm saying is that over the course of the history of science, science gets its start
during the Copernican Revolution, 17th century, that over the course of the history of science,
the explanations that have proven themselves to be the most successful, the most productive,
the most empirically verified, verifiable, how everyone afraid that the explanations that have
the most supporting evidence have been natural explanations. But since I'm a provisional naturalist,
I don't rule out the supernatural from the gate. Okay, I leave room for it. And over the course
of the history of science to get back to the question you just asked, there have been supernatural
explanations put forth as scientific. A couple of really famous examples, and maybe this will help
explain it more. First and foremost would be the explanation that was put forward by Newton
for God as the kind of maintainer of the superstructure of the universe. And this wasn't like
to be clear, this wasn't Newton saying like, I believe that God exists, or I can harmonize
God with the universe. This was Newton saying, at some point, my equations break down. And there has
to be a supernatural force intervening in the universe to put everything back in order. There
was a gap in his equations and in the explanatory power of his equations, and Newton believed that
only God could fill that gap. Now, this is a classic God of the gaps argument, by the way.
It literally is the God of the gaps. Newton was the first one to start God of the gaps, but
there was a, well, I can't say. Old, fallacious Newton. Sorry.
It was the first modern scientist. Oh, I was just joking. I'm not going to pick him on Newton.
You should pick on him. By the way, one of the interesting things about the history of
science is you learn how weird these people were. Newton was really strange, a very strange guy.
Not to sidetrack myself, because I can talk about the trivial things a lot.
He wrote a treatise when he was in college about how college students should not drink,
because he was up in his laboratory every night, like busting out equations, and there were people
like downstairs having fun. And he was basically like, you shouldn't be drinking type thing.
He said that his greatest accomplishment in life was dying a virgin.
No, really? Oh, old, fallacious virgin boy Newton.
And he spent most of it. So he developed his theory of gravity by the time he was like 25,
like it's ridiculous. And he spent the rest of his life studying alchemical text and figuring out
like what Moses could tell him about the universe in the Hebrew Bible.
Right. Wild stuff. Anyway. Yeah, okay. Sorry. This is the, my students like to get me sidetracked
by asking me like, no, no, no, no. And I'm happy for these sidetracks. This is great. I'm learning
a lot. I'm on the, I'm right on the edge of, of, of like, following. So like, I'm where I'm being
stretched, you know, like, this is good. This is good. This is the same one I had a conversation
with Arjuna with his, except I was a little bit further along the not understanding, like, I have
to rewatch that future. And still, I don't understand what he's talking about. But I can get pieces out
of it. It's been easy with you. It's like kind of understand, but keep going. Yeah. So like,
getting back to Newton's view of God, there was a, a gap in the scientific explanation that you as a
17th century astronomer could legitimately point to and say that, you know, this is a place for God.
In other words, it wasn't like a fallacious argument, like there was legitimately
a gap there. Specifically, Newton had a really hard time with the orbit of Mercury. It was, you
know, you know, rudimentary telescopes, Mercury, if you look at the night sky, and if you spend
every single night staring at Mercury, it does some weird things. And so Newton was trying to
account for that. And he, he couldn't mathematically, which was a problem. Anyway, so that would be one
example of, I think that at that time with what Newton knew, it was justifiable to appeal to the
supernatural to explain a natural phenomenon, Mercury's orbit. Another example of this would be
the debate that happened in biology in the 18th and 19th century over vitalism, which was the idea
that biological life had this sort of innate animating spirit that couldn't be reduced to a
mechanical process. In other words, like there was something about the, they called it like the life
force that was not purely physical. And this is like the, that really the explosion of medical
technology and the medical sciences. So they were, this is where you get all those really awesome
drawings of like people being dissected and stuff like that. And they were trying to figure out,
like, what is it that, that animates us, right? Because, you know, we can break down the heart
and we can like trace all of the veins in the human bodies. And they were starting to like
dissect the brains and talk about like different parts of the brain. But they still weren't quite
sure like, basically like what makes us conscious and what gets us like up and moving and why is it
when I think to move my right arm, my right arm moves. That was a big issue. And so a very popular
explanation is that some aspects of human physiology could be explained by appealing to
this vitalistic principles, specifically, like the motion of the body, like why is it that when
I, I think to move my left arm, my left arm moves, like biologists in the 18th century would say,
well, if we, if we accept vitalism, that would be a, that would be a legitimate scientific explanation.
And then finally, you mentioned James Randy, there was very popular explanations in the 19th
century regarding psychology that appealed to supernatural causes. Like they were having
legitimate debates about whether or not things like telekinesis were possible. And they were
taking claims about telekinesis like super seriously, there's a really good book about this. And I
can't remember the name of the title. It's called Ghost Hunters. And it's about William James,
who was a 19th century philosopher. Not the TV show, right? No, no, no. Though not far off.
It is just involving like legitimate philosophers and scientists,
testing paranormal claims and taking, treating the paranormal as a topic of scientific
investigation. Now, in the case of all three of those examples that I just gave, what eventually
happens is naturalistic explanations come in to replace them. Yeah. So the issues surrounding
Newton's mathematics were eventually solved by 18th and 19th century astronomers.
As telescope technology progressed, and as new events in mathematics and not to get super boring
here, but especially the advent of non Euclidean geometry allowed us to have a better explanation
for why these things happen in biology. It just resulted from a better understanding of human
physiology, specifically the understanding that the brain sends messages to the other parts of
the bodies via these neural connections. In the case of paranormal psychology, all the studies
and investigations that were done were basically inconclusive. Still are. There's still people like
I interviewed Dr. Christopher French recently who still investigates paranormal claims that
people are making. He's done it for like the past 20 years, and they're still still inconclusive,
right? So provisional naturalism says that take all of that in consideration, take the
all of the history of science into consideration. And what we see is that
more and more frequently naturalistic explanations are applied to the world.
Supernatural explanations have proven time and time again to fall short or be in most of the
cases be replaced by natural explanations. So for approaching this inductively, and I present the
two pictures to you, a naturalistic view of the universe and the supernaturalistic view of the
universe. From my perspective, I'm not going to rule out the super. I'm not going to say like
the supernatural does not exist and will never exist. I don't know that. But what I do know is
that thus far, naturalistic explanations have prevailed, which to me strengthens a for a weak
form of ontological naturalism. Okay, that makes sense. There's a thought that I remember hearing
from someone who debated Kent Hoven about creationism and evolution. And that is like
creationists will claim that they can explain the same, they can explain things, you know,
with looking at the same evidence has arrived at different conclusions. So for example,
they'll find fossils and say, oh, see evidence of Noah's flood. This is why we see a fossil on
top of this mountain, right? Because the whole world was covered. But what I really loved,
I think it was King Crocoduck who did it. He said, he said, the power of science is that we can make
novel testable predictions. So a dog producing a dog kind is not a novel testable prediction.
It's testable, and it's a prediction, but it's not novel. So Kent Hoven, Mr. Kent, Mr. Kent Hoven
is wrong there. But, but, but, for example, Tiktalic with the evolution, you know, they were like,
okay, we know that this part of the strata is exposed in this location, we know that we should
see an animal fossil between this and between this animal. And they went looking for it. And
they eventually found it like bang right where it's supposed to be. That is such a novel testable
prediction. Like for that to be wrong would be very, very, you know, for evolution to be wrong
then. And there's so many other things. And that's what I, I, I, I, that's what I love about the
scientific, the scientific method is that's what it does creates this model test predictions.
And a question I always have for people who subscribe to supernatural things is like, obviously
true is like, I have family members who 100% believe in the power of Ouija boards is like a
real thing that they said they've experienced them, they've moved around and I said, okay, well,
like we could solve the world's energy crisis. So what we could do is we could literally create a
giant Ouija board, and we could connect some like things to it so that it, you know,
converted its supernatural power into kinetic energy. And we could create power through that.
And then we could just sit there all day asking it questions and build kinetic energy. And I
posted this as a bit of a joke on Facebook and all like a couple of people, including relatives,
were like, no, they're real and you don't want to mess with them and stuff. And I'm like, okay,
but like, well, in that case, let's solve the world's energy crisis. Like, let's, let's just
build a Ouija board that can convert its spiritual energy to a kinetic energy. So yeah, I mean,
it's, well, yeah, it's, sorry, I'm just ranting now. No, it's part of the conversation and the beers,
the beers or the drinks usually kick in. Even though I've only had one, but I do want to ask
though, what do you think are naturalists, naturalists, naturalism's best critiques. So if you
were to try and like, argue on, like, play the devil's advocate and you're arguing against yourself,
what would you say was the, like, so for me, I'd say Christianity's, you know, the problem of evil
is a good, good pushback from Christianity. What would you say is a pushback against naturalism,
like something that you would say that? Yeah, it's a good, really good question. And this kind of
gets back to what you just brought up with respect to the person that you quoted that
science makes novel and testable predictions. One of the things about naturalistic claims is that,
so in 20th century philosophy of science, one of the big debates was, and I'll answer your
question, I'm just going to do a politician's answer to do a roundabout. No, no, you need to go for it.
One of the big debates in the 20th century philosophy of science was around this problem
called demarcation, which is how do you separate science from pseudoscience? What makes,
in the famous, the philosopher that started all this was a philosopher named Carl Popper.
And Carl Popper looked, he compared and contrast Einstein's theory of relativity with astrology
and with Freud's psychoanalysis. And he says, like, well, what makes relativity different?
And the conclusion that he came to was that relativity is falsifiable, right?
So when Einstein, the history of relativity is super fascinating. If you want to see, like,
what a good scientific theory looks like, study the history of relativity, it checks off all the
boxes. Because when Einstein published his first paper on the electrodynamics of moving bodies
in 1906, it's mathematical equations in thought experiments. He gives his famous,
like, moving trains analogy. Suppose you have three observers, one observer's on train A,
one observer's on train B, and one observer's on the platform that the trains are passing by.
Anyway, I won't get into it. But when Einstein first put forward his theory, it was simply
a mathematical explanation that showed that things like absolute simultaneity,
that it was theoretically possible for absolute time not to exist, and that since we had good,
we did not have good evidence to believe in an ether, which was this theoretical substance
that the earth moved through. Sorry. I've been talking about flat earth recently,
and I've just learnt what ether is. By the way, the McKinley-Morrison experiment
showed that if there is an ether, that it was having zero effect on the movement of the earth
through space. That's how I found it, is they sent me a video debunking that. Of course, at the end,
it was like, oh, the God's perfect book. Oh, my God.
So, yeah, so Einstein presents this idea, and it's, like I said, it's a mathematical solution
to some of the problems that he saw in physics at the time. It was not empirically verified, though,
until about 20 years later. Specifically, you have author Eddington, a British scientist who takes
this excursion to observe a solar eclipse, because one of Einstein's theory made several
predictions, novel predictions about how the universe was structured. One of those predictions
was that we have to start viewing space not as this, like, flat plane that extends throughout
the entire universe, but that parts of space are curved, and that because parts of space are curved,
light could be curved when moving through those parts of space, specifically areas of space that
have a really strong, like, gravitational pull. And Eddington experimentally verified that during
a solar eclipse in 1920s something. It was possible that when Eddington took those photographs that
he would not see light, that he would just see light going straight, that the light coming off
the sun would not be curved, but he did, right? And so one of the things that could, I think,
naturalism is falsifiable as well. And so one of the critiques against it would be
that it's theoretically possible to imagine an aspect of our world whose best explanation
is supernatural. In today's scientific climate, I think kind of the last bastion of this would be
human consciousness. Yeah. There you go. That's like it. That's a big one. Yeah. So if they were
able to definitively show that consciousness cannot be reduced to pure biological processes,
I would have to rethink my position. That's an excellent answer. I really, that's a really
thought out. That's a great answer. I really appreciate that answer. That's awesome because
I think that consciousness is like a huge problem at the moment. I've been dealing with non-dualists
at the moment. I'm not dealing with them, but I'm a relative of mine, having conversations about
the Rupert Spira's ideas. I'm not his ideas, but a type of Eastern philosophy that essentially
that there is no matter, that we're all just consciousness and that whenever you point to
something, well, this is matter. You're experiencing that within consciousness. And so I've been
thinking a lot about consciousness lately. And it's a really hard thing to kind of wrap your
head around. Well, I did want to, we got a bunch of questions, but I did want to first
touch on the resurrection of Jesus because to me, that is something that I find the most
interesting in our back and forth in our email because I've heard so many times that the historical
method for Jesus and his life and his resurrection is ironclad. And for me, and for me, I've gone like,
like all I can do, I point to Hume or whatever. And I know there's some problems with that.
Like you mentioned something that really stuck out to me and that is that you said one of my
biggest problems is that with the historical criteria used in these arguments, they don't use
anyone else in history. So I'd like to just explain that a little bit. Yeah. So I'm going to take
off my philosopher hat and put on my historian hat, switch gears a little bit. Yeah. So
this is a, it's an interesting topic. And I want to begin by calling attention to what scholarship
in and around early Christianity looks like. So what I mean by this partly is you don't have
people with the same vested interest studying subjects like World War II that you do with
people studying early Christianity for obvious reasons, right? When you're studying early
Christianity, you're not just talking about historical events, you're also talking about
the beginning of a religion. And oftentimes the people studying that beginning of the religion
belong to that religion. So there's a difference between, I think there's a categorical difference
between history and religion and how both of these disciplines approach the past.
And that's kind of where my big objection lies. I'm not really, like a lot of times I hear when I
listen to people, when I listen to, especially like atheist versus theist debate the resurrection,
most of the time what I hear is the atheist trying to engage with the theist about details about the
gospel account. And for the most part, I think that's a fruitless endeavor, right? Our primary
sources about the life, death and resurrection of Jesus are the gospel accounts, right? And the
gospel accounts present a very particular picture of that. My critique lies,
to me, if you want to accept the resurrection of Jesus as a matter of faith, that's cool.
I don't have a horse in that race anymore. You do you, right? But to say that the
historical, that the resurrection of Jesus is a historical event, or that it can be
described or supported by historical evidence, I think is a misclassification of terms.
It can be supported by religious evidence, for sure. It can be supported by like eyewitness
testimony. I don't have any problem with that, right? I think, so yeah, isn't everything is like,
okay, so like a big thing is like, you know, obviously, first of all, I don't subscribe to the
resurrection of Jesus. I'm just pushing hard against this because I want to get some good answers,
because I find it interesting. But so there's obviously the eyewitness testimony that we have.
There's the empty tomb reports, and there's 11 times eyewitnesses testified to seeing a
resurrected Jesus in the gospels. So as far as like history goes, what else do we have?
I mean, we know the gospels were written 30 to 60 years after the event, 65 years after the event,
but in regards to the historical method at the time, doesn't Jesus fit some of the best,
like, I mean, using it in today's standards? Sure, it's crap. But in regards to the time,
like, it's as good as anything else we have at that time, isn't it? Like, it's like, there's not
much else that we can... Right. Speak into that point a little bit. And this is something that's
easily forgotten by people having these conversations. A history professor of mine
used to like to say that people of the ancient world inhabited a different universe than we do,
because all the basic assumptions that we have about the world and how the world operates
are not shared. So they lived in a world where angels and demons and spirits were as tangible
to them as, you know, I'm about to go watch RuPaul's Drag Race after this, as RuPaul's Drag Race is
for me, right? It was a daily aspect of their life. Their life revolved around, typically speaking,
revolved around, and centered around religious practices that were fundamental to them as people.
That's not for us. Now, to answer your question, like, I don't see a reason arguing with,
again, going back to the debates that I've heard, like, the disciples believed that Jesus was raised
for the dead. Like, I don't think you can argue that. I'm willing to accept them at their word.
That's what they said. That's what they believed. But that doesn't mean I have to accept the
ontological position that resurrection is possible, and that the supernatural realm exist,
and that as a result, God exists, right? There's a lot of, yeah, a lot of leaps there.
So historically, here are my problems with that. I'll lay them out and you tell me what you think.
So yeah, the people that study that make these claims, these sorts of claims are not made anywhere
else in the historical scholarship. Like, you'll never find, I can't say never, you might.
Right. You'd be hard-pressed to find a legitimate academic historian who studies something like
World War II, making the argument that some sort of supernatural event occurred.
They don't do it.
Yeah, I'll let you finish, but we don't have any, because we don't have any stories of supernatural
events happening, right? God, God, and Auschwitz is the, is the old saying, really.
There's tons. Yeah. Really? Well, so I'll give you some examples, and this is why I think the
criteria that the people who argue for the resurrection, one of the problems is, is that
you make that argument, and if you're consistent with that argument, you have to accept a whole
host of things. Of like, yeah, like South West Side Baba, for example, you know. Right. Or, yeah.
I'll use World War II. So every October, I like to teach classes, I call it spooktober,
it's a cheesy high school thing, right? And so one of the classes that I taught were,
it was a book that was written about Nazis and the occult. And the Nazis were really big into
occult sciences. Okay. And there are plenty of very high-ranking Nazi officials, specifically
Goebbels, is it Joseph Goebbels? I can't remember Goebbels's last name, as well as some other people
in Hitler, Hitler himself, I don't think we have reason to believe it. I'm getting bogged down in
the history. But there were some people very high up Nazi officials who believed in the occult power
and who believed that they were harnessing occult power to reinforce the Nazi army. And they would
do this by finding occult artifacts and, you know, casting magic spells and building castles
that align with certain geometrical features of the stars. And they had, then they tried to
harness that power to use it against the Allied forces. And they believed that. And people like
Goebbels would write in his journal about the things that happened to him and that he experienced.
There was a reason why he was pursuing it, because he believed that some of these things
that happened to him. So, did he have like spiritual things, like, like, you know,
he saw an angel or he, you know, felt something or something? Are there like events that happened?
Like, or is it just that they had some weird faith that they tried to, you know, subscribe?
So that's the, that's the distinction, right? If the evidence that you're presenting is
eyewitness testimony, like I can find you plenty of eyewitness testimony about all sorts of things
that reportedly happen. But that doesn't mean that those events actually happened.
But let me, let me present my methodological objections.
Yeah. And then you feel free to come back and be a devil's advocate and stuff like that.
So I think that arguments for the resurrection in terms of historical evidence supports the
resurrection violates two aspects of historical methodology that, again, no academic historian
worth their salt would be willing to violate for, for good reason that I'll outline. The first is
that it violates this idea of historical contingency. History operates on the assumptions that events
that have happened in human history could not have happened. Historical facts, facts are
changeable, or could be changeable from a philosophical perspective, right? Nothing in history
was supposed to happen. We can describe those events through historical causes, but a historian's
not going to say like the allies were meant to win World War II or were supposed to win World
War II. We can easily imagine scenarios in which the United States maybe didn't join
and Great Britain was taken over by Nazi Germany, so on and so forth.
And I'm going to tell you why these are, why historians don't make these sorts of arguments
in a second. And the other one is that no matter how much historical evidence you have, you can't
move from historical evidence to ontology, to existence. So the reason why violating contingency
is a big historical no-no, I can kind of present in philosophy what's called a reductio ad absurdum,
to use the same sort of argument, apply it to a different situation, and show why it's not so great.
Right? So Christian apologists who are arguing for the resurrection,
the resurrection had to at some point in history happen, because if the resurrection did not happen,
humanity would not be redeemed. And the whole story about Adam and Eve in the Guard and all that
would kind of fall apart. Like the biblical prophecy said that Jesus was coming, Jesus came,
fulfilled that prophecy, it could not have been otherwise.
If you ask anyone, any Jews, they would be right, right, right. A Christian reading of the Hebrew
Bible. Arguments like that were made, and this is where the reductio comes in,
arguments like that were made in the 19th and 20th century, usually to really horrible moral
effects. So for example, in the United States, the concept of manifest destiny, the idea that
the United States ought to span from one coast to the other coast, and that this was a historical
inevitability, that it had to happen, and that God had ordained it to happen, was used to justify
the genocide of the Native Americans. I did not know that. That's right. Disgusting.
Likewise, the idea that the colonial expansion in the 16th and 17th century by the Europeans,
that the Europeans, there's a classic question in modern history, which is, why did the Western
powers end up in the position that they're in? Why is it that the United States, Great Britain,
France are first world countries, quote unquote, first world countries, and parts of Africa are
third world countries? 18th, 19th century, the argument was, well, there had to be something
special about these European civilizations, that they were doing something that other nations
weren't, and that it was sort of inevitable that Europe would kind of come to this position of power,
because why would it? So both of those arguments presupposed a deterministic view of history,
that history had to turn out a particular way, and we know that by studying those historical
events, that both of those explanations are wrong. They're wrong because it could have easily been
otherwise. When we look at explanations for why Europe came to dominate the globe in the 19th
and 20th century, it has nothing to do with some sort of preset plan, or some sort of preset agenda,
or some sort of special status that the Europeans have. It has everything to do with these sort of
random occurrences in the economy, and the political structure of Europe in the 16th century,
that all kind of hobbled together, allowed for this sort of thing to happen.
All of that presupposes historical contingency, and if you take away historical contingency,
what I'm saying is that you open yourself up to all of these other arguments that people could
put forward, that we know are faulty. That makes sense.
I think I'm following. Just to duck back a little bit to World War II,
are there any historical events that took place that were written about from eyewitnesses,
or is it more just faith beliefs? Was anyone resurrected from the dead? Was anyone walking
on water? I mean, Nazis walking across the marshes of something. I can't think of any off
the top of my head, although I'm sure I could probably find some if you gave me a dare to look
for them. Better examples would be from the ancient world. I do know that there are other,
because the big thing, obviously, is if you accept the claims that Jesus resurrected from
the dead based on the evidence, not based on faith, like let's remove faith, then unfortunately,
you'd have to do the same for so many things. Are there any people even in the Middle East that have
similar miracles given to them? Do you know any of any? I know that, for example,
Muhammad, he said he split the moon, he spoke to the angel Gabriel, and these are all
eyewitnesses, not eyewitness testimonies, but they're all written down as historical.
Are there any other faiths of the time, of Jesus' time,
anywhere around the world, that had eyewitness testimonies making claims of
divine intervention or supernatural things, that if we were to accept Jesus on historical
merits, we'd have to accept these other claims as well? Right, and so this gets into the second
big methodological objection that I raised is that no historian would move from, again, no
academic story. You've got to make your qualifiers. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Your philosophy by
antique sinulaki, you can't say never. You'd be hard-pressed to find a historian that would accept
that historical evidence and historical documentation somehow leads to ontology,
and the reason why, to make another reductio that you mentioned, is because if we accept
that standard for Christianity, unless we're making a case of special pleading or special
bargaining, you have to accept that standard for everything else. So an example that predates Jesus
would be the Epic of Gilgamesh, which was a huge influence on the Hebrew Bible. We have solid,
concrete archaeological evidence to support that Gilgamesh was a real person.
All the evidence that we have about what Gilgamesh did with his life comes from the Epic of Gilgamesh.
Does that mean that Gilgamesh went and met the immortal up to Pistom, that he fought the snake
scorpion man, that he had marital relations with a goddess?
You ask any a seriologist, anybody studying the ancient world, like,
do you believe Gilgamesh really did those things? Well, no, right? But this kind of goes back to
what I was also mentioning earlier, but the people at the time may have believed that he did
because that was the world they lived in. They lived in a world inhabited by goddesses who wanted
to seduce mortal men. So yeah, Gilgamesh could have slept with a goddess. That would have made
sense to them, right? I could use these examples. Yeah, go ahead. I was going to say, is it also
missing the point too? Because if I was a Christian, I would make the argument that the story of Job,
the story of Noah, the story of like a Jordan Peterson version of Christianity, where it's
like you remove much of the supernatural, but what's the other one, the big fish? Someone
getting swallowed by big fish. I would say that those are more written in a mythological,
legendary style, where I would say that the gospels aren't written in that style as much.
They're very much written as like, these are the accounts. This is what really happened,
and my personal takeaway from that is essentially that they were just mistaken.
Right. They're telling the truth, and they believe these were things for
history, but they're mistaken. So couldn't someone push back up against what you're
saying and saying like the Epic of Gilgamesh, that he may have been a real person, he may have been
historical to some extent. However, these other parts, like the some parts of Abraham's story
or Moses' story are obviously legendary, are obviously mythological.
Yeah. I mean, there's other examples. So yeah, I could grant that like, okay, well, yeah, we could
read Gilgamesh as being mythology. So maybe a better example would be the life of the historical
Buddha, Siddhartha Gautama. Yeah. Right. So again, we have primary sources
that were later canonized in much the same way that the New Testament was canonized in the
Pali canon. But the historical Buddha, Siddhartha Gautama, by the historical archaeological record
was a real person. He had disciples. Those disciples saw him perform miracles, right? They
saw him do things, supernatural things that they could not otherwise explain. So if you accept
the sort of criteria that's put forward to accept the resurrection of Jesus, you would have to also
accept that Siddhartha sat under a Bodhi tree for 30 days and 30 nights that he battled the
God Maury and that eventually he overcame the human condition to obtain enlightenment,
release from the cycle of Nirvana, Nirvana, right? So the criteria, my objection would be that the
criteria of putting forward, if you're going to use that, okay, but if you're consistent with that
criteria, you also have to accept all these other things. Yeah. I was trying to look this up on the
side while you were talking because I know there's another first century Jewish teacher,
that apocalyptic prophet that did some miraculous work. I forgot what his name is. I'm just typing
in like random. Yeah, I don't know their names. I don't know their names, but I took a New Testament
class with Luke Timothy Johnson about as well respected as of the New Testament scholars you're
going to get, like the guys as a ridiculous scholarly output. But he talks about the first
century context. There were several people that we know about writing around at the time that
claimed to be the Messiah, and several people writing around at the time that were performing
miracles. Again, miracles was just part of the fabric and ethos of first century life in Judea.
Yeah, that's a reference alternative facts. What book is that? What is that called?
I'll post that in the comments for people to read if they're interested.
Yeah, it's just called The Writings of the New Testament by Luke Timothy Johnson.
Johnson is a Christian. I studied with him. He's a more, I guess, what we would call a liberal
Christian. He wouldn't argue that the resurrection is a historical fact. He would argue that it's a
matter of faith. Yeah, yeah. Anyway. Oh, well, that's super interesting. I'll jump on to the
Q&A because some of the Q&A questions are about the resurrection. In fact, most of them are.
So I asked a bunch of, I tagged Michael Jones of Inspiring Philosophy 127
Apologetics, X-27 Apologetics, I think it's called. You both follow me on Twitter and
MythVision podcast. Derek from MythVision was the only one who engaged in it. And I'm wondering
why the Christians didn't jump to throw some hard questions your way. But Derek from MythVision,
he's also a naturalist. And he said, what do you think actually happened in history if the
resurrection didn't happen? Yeah, that's a fantastic question. You just want to get your take,
like what you think happened. What do I actually think happened? And I also want to be clear about
another thing. I am not a New Testament scholar. Yeah, yeah. I studied 20th century history,
not first century. Anyway, I mean, what do I think happened? I think that there was a person
named Jesus and that his disciples believed that he fulfilled all of his prophecy. I think that
they believed that he performed miracles. And I think they believed that he rose from the dead.
And I think, I don't think we necessarily, I don't think there's a need to say that they were
like being deceitful, or that they were lying. The fact of the matter is that people believe
all sorts of stuff similar to that. I have a friend of mine who studies cults, right? People
believe the same sorts of things about Jim Jones. But that doesn't lead like credence to the idea
that Jim Jones performed miracles, that he actually performed miracles, right? Or that there's
actually a UFO following the comet, hellbop or whatever comet it was, right? I'll give you an
example, a personal example. When I was, I live in the United States, I've lived in the United
States my whole life. When I was about four years old, and I was riding in a car with my mother,
I thought I saw a kangaroo outside. We don't have kangaroos, except for zoos, right?
And I sincerely believe that. And actually, across the United States, there are tens of
thousands of people, I don't know, I'm making this up. I'm guessing there's other people that have
seen kangaroos as well, right? I don't think they're being facetious. Maybe some of them are.
I don't think they're trying to like get personal credit or profit from it. Again,
maybe some of them are. But I think it's possible to accept that people believe that they have
experienced certain things, while at the same time, accepting that those things could in actuality
not have happened. But not to demean that person, right? Take anybody that has any form of like
mental illness, right? They believe that certain things in the world are happening.
And I'm not saying that the disciples were mentally ill, not what I'm just using this as an
example, right? But yeah, I believe that they were honest and that they were sincere. But that
doesn't mean that I have to accept what they said is true about the world. I found it very,
very interesting that Mark, our earliest Gospel, the original Endicom Mark does not include
either the virgin birth or the disciples encounter with the resurrected Jesus. It ends abruptly
at the empty tomb. There's the empty tomb. Sometimes I wonder if, and also if you read the
accounts of like Jesus drifting off into heaven and stuff, even when I was a Christian, I would go,
that writing style felt weird there. And then all of a sudden Jesus went, whoa, whoa, whoa,
this all of a sudden feels very different to the rest of the... So yeah, like, I bought into it
until that moment there, yeah. Oh, you got another book? I got another book. This is the story of
Christianity by Gusto Gonzalez. By the way, these books that I'm bringing up are like
legitimate, like these are like bonafide academic scholars. Gonzalez is a church historian. And
the reason why I bring up this book, there was a lot of debate at the end of the first century
and throughout the second century about who exactly Jesus was. And there were early Christians.
You have this debate between the... It's been a while, so you're testing my knowledge here, but
the Alexandrian School of Thought and the school in Antioch, the group of scholars who were arguing
about whether or not Jesus was divine. And this is like second century. So there is inner debate
in conflict about how to interpret the Gospels like right out the gate. This is not something
that was like settled and then like just accepted by everybody. But yeah, I do like... Yeah, I do
like what Bart Ehrman says, where he says that Christianity is and never was a monolith. Like
there was never one group of people, I believe, one thing. It's always been contested, debated,
things like that. I've got a good question for you. What do you think of Jesus' mythicism?
I've heard that tossed around a little bit and I can't say I'm a philosopher and me is coming
out again. What do you mean? What is to define that word for me? So to give you some background,
Jesus' mythicism I thought was a really ridiculous claim. It's the idea that Jesus never existed,
that there was no historical Jesus at all. And I posted an antagonistic claim,
I posted an antagonistic Twitter comment that was essentially... It's clear to me that
99% of mythicists are just mythicists for the fields. And then Godless Engineer John
took offence to that and then I just said, let's have a chat. I jumped on his show and we had a
bit of a heated discussion. By the end, we ended up as friends. It was great. It's probably going
to jump on the deep drinks for some time. But I decided, no, I'm going to stand by my claim because
I get so sick of when people tweet to me some hyperbolic claim and then they walk it back as
soon as I challenge them on it. So I was like, you know what? I'm going to stand by this and I
built a little syllogism and we discussed it. But essentially, Jesus' mythicism is the idea that
the events... I might be getting this wrong, but the events of Jesus are not historically,
not physically historical. The writings of the Gospels were talking about
not real-world historical events, but they're based on theology from Paul and Paul created this.
So you know when Paul says that the message that he gets from... I've got where it is,
but the message that he preaches is that he's learned from the spirit realm. So essentially,
the idea is the Gospels came from spiritual ideas that were given to Paul and Jesus was
an historical figure. These events were things that happened as a spiritual thing. I mean,
if you don't know it, it's hard for you to comment on it. Okay, so I've heard similar things. There
was a movement, I think it was in the late 90s, early 2000s, called the Jesus Seminar,
where they kind of went through the New Testament and try to determine, well,
Jesus really say these things? Did he most likely say this or most likely say that? And
there were some people in that movement who argued that Jesus himself, Jesus of Nazareth,
was an historical figure. And I've heard this... I've heard several atheists in debates bring up
similar positions or make the claim like, well, I don't know if Jesus was a real person at all.
I'm not aware of any... Again, maybe I should not use such strong language. I would be very
surprised if you could point me to a legitimate New Testament historian or first century historian
who would support that position. Yeah, well, that was my syllogism. As I said,
people that... I said most scholars, my syllogism, my weak syllogism was essentially...
Most scholars don't... 99% of scholars don't accept a mythicism as even a thing that you
could investigate. It's just totally bogus in their mind. Therefore, because mythicists tend
to disagree with the consensus, they have to be doing it for non-historical reasons. Therefore,
like the conclusion is they're doing it for the field. So I just typed this out in like five
minutes. I know that there's some issues with it. But something that John from Goddison Jean
pointed out was that there is an incredible... Now, this is starting to get conspiratorial,
which I hate conspiracies. But he said there's an incredible bias in the scholarly world,
because essentially it's like being a scholar of the moon and then finding out the moon doesn't
exist. Most scholars are Christian who have vested interest in this. So for me as a non-academic in
these areas, like for example, with vaccines, I point to consensus. For cancer treatment,
I point to consensus. I don't go on these like alternative routes. I grew up with a lot of that
stuff given to me as from my parents and stuff. And I later found out that homeopathy was BS and
stuff, right? So I try and point to consensus. But he bring up that point, which I found was
really interesting. And he said he held up two books and one was Richard Carey's book. I forgot
what it's called. Link in the description again. But he mentioned that it's been peer reviewed and
it is being peer reviewed. And there's another book that's come out that arrives at an agnostic
position of whether or not Jesus exists or not. So to me, I'm still... And John, if you're watching,
I apologize. I still think that most ministers do it for the fields. However, he opened my eyes to
actually investigating it as a legitimate thing. And I'm wanting to investigate that
because obviously there's something there that I went into that conversation
willing to be educated. And I definitely got educated and realized there's much more to it than I
thought. And fair enough. And again, I don't know enough about the subject to offer any
like substantive critique other than to agree with what your general sentiment was.
I am a, by most people's standard, highly educated, you know, a master's degree in history.
If there's an area of history that I'm not super familiar with or that I'm unsure about,
an appeal to consensus is not, shouldn't be viewed in a bad way. You're just accepting what the
scholars in the field have come up with. But that's, I guess my, and I'm, I don't know this person,
and I'm not familiar with the argument. So I'm not like directing this at anybody in particular. But
you can change historical consensus. It's not easy. It takes a lot of time. But the
idea that like the field is dominated by a particular group of people who feel a certain way
and that they kind of like push people out, like I would need to see some sort of evidence for that.
And I can give an example of how this happens. This is a very mundane and boring example,
but the field that I work in, the philosopher that I examine, his name is Gaston Bachelard.
Most of the books that I have about Bachelard believe that his philosophy of time, which is
what I'm examining, is purely phenomenological, that he's talking about our immediate sense
experience of what time is and how time works. And one of the landmark books on Bachelard,
written by a scholar named Mary Tiles, says that Bachelard engages with Einstein,
but it's really just polemical. He's just drawn upon Einstein to kind of lend a little bit of
credibility to what his philosophy is saying. I fundamentally disagree with that. And this is
like the most prestigious scholar in the field that I'm disagreeing with. I wrote a paper,
sent it out to several publishers. They peer-reviewed journals. And I got it published in a
big American philosophy journal. And that's not to be like braggadocious or anything like that.
I'm just saying, like, that's the purpose of scholarship. That's the purpose of scholarship
is to push consensus, to challenge ideas, and to find that area that you think most people
are misunderstanding or misrepresenting and to present your case why that is so.
Could it be that Jesus' mythicism or some form of it is true? Could be. But as of now,
like for the layperson, I think you got to go with the scholarly consensus,
which is that Jesus of Nazareth was a historical figure.
Interesting. I'd love for you to listen to you guys having a chat. You should get him on your
channel because I'm sure he'd jump on or he'd jump on his channel because he's a nice guy.
And he definitely subscribes that perspective. So I think it'd be interesting if you guys have
it back and forth. I'll clip this and say that Michael Granado says, God, this engineer isn't
idiot. And we should carry this stupid. No, I'm kidding. Do you have a Twitter, by the way?
I don't. No. Come on. Should I be on it? Make antagonistic claims and then people
get angry at you and then you jump on the channels and get embarrassed. I didn't think I was
embarrassed, but it was an interesting conversation. So just quickly, because I think this question
is, has a misunderstanding of the history of Christianity. So the person is asking,
how do you explain the day of Pentecost and all other conversions that fit the same pattern in
the last 2000 years? And I'll just clarify this by saying that as far as I'm aware,
Pentecostal Christians or evangelicals believe that the Christianity has been just this like
what they experienced, but without the drums and the music, you know, people getting saved,
speaking in tongues and stuff for 2000 years, where the more I researched into the Pentecostal
movement, I'm reading a brilliant book at the moment by Ali Hardy. I forgot what it's called.
Called Beyond Belief, how Pentecostal Christianity is taking over the world.
It's a fantastic book on the history of Pentecostalism. And also I've read some Christian text on
the history of the church. And from my understanding, this perspective of like
baptising the spirit, speaking in tongues, healings and stuff, that hasn't been a
strong development through the ages of Christianity. In fact, it seems to be
some of the early Christians and it seems to have picked up again in the Pentecostal
movements of the 18, the Isis district revivals and things like that.
So yeah, so how do you explain the Pentecost?
Right. So there are two parts to this. The first part I would say like, and I often get this a lot
when I'm talking with people and they're telling me about some sort of religious experience they
have. Like, I'm not going to sit here and say that I can explain that. How could I? It's a deeply
personal, deeply moving, profound experience that someone had with something they believed to be divine.
Like, nothing I say is going to hold a candle to it. Right? It's their personal experience.
So the second part, which I think you picked up on,
to say that the conversion experience has been consistent for the last 2000 years,
that's a very bold historical claim, which I would need to see some sort of documentation for.
I've read about the history of Christianity. I've read Husto Gonzalez book, the story of
Christianity is a fantastic source there. Just for the listeners, what I'm going to do is I'm
going to ask you for a list of books that you suggest the readers if they want to dive more
into what we've talked about, and I'm going to put it in the description so you guys can check that out.
I would just echo kind of what you said in that last part there. If they're talking about
Pentecostalism specifically, or the Pentecost experience of speaking in tongues,
the kind of conversion experience that comes along with that, I would highly encourage them to
read about American history specifically, the first and second Great Awakening. The sort of
personalized experience of the highly personal, highly emotional, highly experienced driven
Christianity that most of us are used to today is relatively new. It really started with the
first and second Great Awakening, which emphasized this personal experience. If you look at things
like the Cain Ridge revival that happened in Tennessee, late 19th century, you have these
traveling preachers that kind of started this revival movement. They were highly charismatic,
very influential speakers that played to people's emotions. Prior to that, if you look at early
Christianity in the United States, puritanism was super stoic. You didn't cry, you didn't laugh,
you went to church and you listened to this super dry sermon that the preacher read literally line
by line for like an hour, and that was your church service. The second Great Awakening was
like a reaction to that sort of rationalism, which heavily emphasized like personal experience.
This is where you get like people like, I come from a very evangelical background, you would see
like people like dance down the aisles and sing, stand up on pews and do like a Russian dance or
speak in tongues, prophesy over people. Like if that's what they're referring to, historically
speaking, that's very new. And that comes out mostly out of American, the evangelical movement
that happened in the United States 19th century. You might be able to speak to this, but I found
something that you just said very interesting there where the pendulum seems to swing like
back and forth. And like, I know you didn't want to talk about politics, but what I'm noticing a lot
on Twitter once again, or just around the world at the moment, is media and things of swanks
very far left. And I'm worried and mark my words that I think there's going to be a huge swing
back to the far right, which I find is unfortunate because I consider myself part of the center left.
So, and I think that that it's interesting that you said that even within Christianity,
that it was very rational, very read, you know, this, and then now it's got it's swung all the way
back to the other side. And then even now you see, like at least from my experience, a lot of the
conversations around Christianity that are happening now, at least online are very intellectually
based. So, I mean, this could be this is probably biased, because I'm just going off what I'm
saying. But I really like what Michael Jones, do you know Michael Jones of inspiring philosophy?
Yeah, I had him on my channel. Oh, he's great. Yeah, fantastic. He, it's actually pretty funny.
I'm probably interviewing a Satanist soon. And we're going to be drinking 10 scones.
And when I had, when I had Michael, Michael in the podcast, the Christian apologists, we're
drinking straight whiskey. I think it's such a funny dichotomy that Michael, I like Michael,
I'd, you know, I'd like to consider him a friend if he ever came to Australia, hang out or something.
But he, he's a good guy. Yeah, he's a great guy. And he, he said that, you know, when it comes to
like, he worries about these spiritual experiences and this unrationalization of the Christian faith,
because he said, if God's telling me something, you know, either he's already in the Bible,
in which case you don't need to be told up by God, or it's not in the Bible, and then you should
project it. Like it's, it lines up with the Bible and you should reject it. And then secondly, he
said that, you know, the heart is wicked, you know, Jeremiah, the heart is wicked, who can
understand it? And the heart is wicked and deceitful, who, you know, who can understand it? And, and
I was like, wow. And, and I was like, that's, that seems to be the Christianity that I would,
I'll more respect these days in regards to that. So it's just, it's just interesting that, do you
know that my question is, this is a long ramble, but my question is, do you see this,
historically speaking, does the pendulum seem to swing a lot like that within social,
social economic, like social groups? Sorry. So it's like, you know, you have like right wing,
left wing, then you have like, you know, very far rational, very emotional, like, you know,
was the sixties like a, like it was a pushback from the fifties, you know, and so it's like the
sixties, like free spirit and all that stuff. Like, is it, is this pushback always something
that's happened or is it just recently? That's a great historical question. Yeah.
It does seem to come in patterns in waves almost. I'll talk about this within the context of,
I think creationism might provide a good context here. So to bring up another book,
there's a historian of science named Ronald Numbers. He wrote an absolutely fantastic history
of creationism in the United States. It's called the creationist. Highly recommend numbers is like
the best, like top of the top in terms of historians of science.
What a last name too. Like, so like, yeah, this guy's, this guy's an insergy,
you know, like he's going to get it right. There's no, yeah. Sorry. Yeah.
No, he's about as, as credible as you're going to get as a historian.
So he gives a really interesting picture to have a long answer to the question you just asked.
Yes, I do think it, it goes from rational to emotional, rational to emotional, at least some
version of that. So what happened with creationism is that prior to the 20th century, there was only
a very small group of Christians who were young earth creationist. It was really limited to like
the Seventh Day Adventist movement and Numbers, like when I say he's like credible historian,
super thorough, like he's giving like statistics and he says there was like less than like 20,000
people in the United States prior to the 20th century that believed in young earth creationism.
Like it's that level of history based off of like primary sources and all this like just a
tremendous amount of research. Anyway, what happens is like, and you have coming off the
second grade awakening, this super emphasis on emotion, personal experience. And then within
the creation circle, in the 1920s in the United States, you have the Scopes Trial, which Saul was
a, it was a court case that happened in the United States about the teaching of evolution
in the state of Tennessee. They made a big to do about it. There was a
politician slash lawyer named Bryant, William Bryant, that was brought to the stand and he kind
of gives this like triumphal defense of Christianity and the prosecutor, Darrow comes and questions him.
And in this questioning, and this was like a national public event that everybody saw,
Darrow asked Brian some like really simple questions like, do you believe that the words
of Genesis are literally true? And Brian says, yes, of course, I believe every word of God.
And Darrow says, so you were telling me that the there was light before that there's a sun created.
Right, where did the light come from? And anyway, it's like this sign of like line of
questioning and Bryant's like completely stumped. And the idea was is that Darrow had made like a
mockery of Christianity. Well, after that, almost as a response, you have the opening up of
private Christian colleges in the attempt to sort of rationalize some of the
mainstream critiques that were being labeled against it. So this is the birth of the more
like academic form of creationism that you see in the 50s and 60s, not like the Ken Ham version
of creationism, but like, you know, you get like creationists with actual like science, science
degrees and stuff like that. Yeah. And so they start coming back to the table, I think can ham.
Anyway, they start coming back to the table and saying like, well, if you examine this aspect
of biology, so to answer your question, like from the history that I'm familiar with,
I can certainly see that. And there has, I mean, there's always going to be people
representing both sides. But what we're seeing now with the, the kind of evolving, no pun intended
of creationism to intelligent design, I think is kind of a further rationalization of that. So
long answer to your question. Yes, I do. I do see that historical. Yeah, that's very
more thorough explanation too. I've got a question that you can't answer before,
but I'll ask it anyway, because I think it'll be interesting. If you were, if we were to reject
naturalism in favor of the claims made in the Bible, what other events would we have to consider
as historical using the same criterion? So for example, other religions, like, do you have a,
like, could you list some off the top of your head of like, would we have to accept
if we were to reject naturalism because of the claims made about Jesus, what other things would
we have to believe historically? Yeah, I think I need to do a little clarifying on my part as well.
So methodological naturalism, provisional naturalism, ontological naturalism,
that applies to the natural sciences and the descriptions that the natural sciences have
about the world. History also presupposes a type of naturalism, but it's, it's, we're talking,
it's the same word, but it's a little different. Okay. If that makes sense. So historical naturalism
is, it's similar. I'm confusing myself here, but historical naturalism is the idea that
historical events are claim or are explained via human causes, human causation. Right. And again,
every single academic historian. Yeah, yeah, yeah, all in nothing language. Almost all academic
historians operating today assume that that's the assumption that they operate on. If you want to
tell me like what caused World War II, you, you could talk about politics, you could talk about
economics, you can even talk about philosophy. Right. But all of that involves human actions.
Some historians will talk about environmental factors. That's also cool because that's also a
naturalistic explanation. So that naturalism's presupposed not just in science, but also in
modern histories. I just wanted to get that out of the way. Yeah. So the question is, like, if we,
if we throw naturalism out of the window and accept the resurrection, what other events would we
have to accept? Basically, the claims of every single culture that has developed a mythology.
Wow. Okay. Yeah. They, they all view their, now there's different understandings of myth,
right? But one of the understandings of myth that a lot of ancient people had is that mythology
offered similar explanations that cosmology offers us today. Right. So
all most, okay. So I'm most ancient cultures have origin myths. Most ancient cultures have
creation myths about who they are as a people and where they came from as a people.
And most ancient cultures had religious leaders that operated within their community
that would work and perform miracles. So if your criteria is, well, there's all this
eyewitness evidence and all this documented historical evidence, unless you're making a case
of special pleading, which is a logical fallacy where you say, well, I'm the exception. Right.
So unless you're doing that, you also have to accept literally every single myth from
every single culture that has ever existed. And so you, you open up the floodgates. And
that was kind of my point with the historical methodology, with the reductios that I was trying
to make. Like history doesn't deal with ontology. And if you want to make the argument that it does,
you have so severely lowered the bar of historical criteria that you just have to accept everything.
Yeah. Because I don't know what other grounds you'd stand on other than to say, well,
Christianity is a special exception to that. And then I would say, well, why is that?
I don't know what the answer to that would be.
Interesting. Interesting. Two more questions. And then we'll wrap up. But how we know that we can't
account for consciousness perfectly yet. But if you were to give your best guess.
Yeah. This is another, this is like me talking about the New Testament. Like I have no clue what
I'm saying. But my best guess, I think that consciousness will ultimately be explainable
via biological processes. Ultimately, I would say that it is most likely, like I'm like 95%
certain about this, a function of the brain. Interesting. If it's not, I've got some problems.
Yeah. No, no. It's one of, it's a huge mystery. It's one of those things to that. If we discovered
an answer and it was not a biological process, so much like it's almost like we, it's like we,
so much of the universe we would realize is not explained in the way that we thought we had
explained it. It'd be huge. Yeah. It's very interesting area of research. I've got the
Blackpool Companion to consciousness up there. And I haven't, I'm too scared to get into it
because I know that it's going to be nice. Yeah. I will say just because I've been
throwing out resources, I think that's a fantastic place to start. Stanford Encyclopedia
Philosophy, if you don't want to go buy a book, that's kind of like the standard of
philosophical writing online. Stanford Encyclopedia Philosophy, just Google Philosophy of Mind,
Stanford Encyclopedia. That's going to give you, not only will it give you a fantastic
overview of the current debates happening in the philosophy of mind,
it'll also give you a work-sided page of 50 different resources you can go and check out.
Awesome. All right. Well, I'll also link that down below. And the last question I have is regarding
your God belief, what evidence would change your mind? Yeah. I think that's a really good question.
Again, I'm kind of echoing what I said before. What would change my mind would be
a explanatory gap within our current worldview that was ultimately answered via supernatural causes.
Consciousness, I think, like I said before, probably the best modern example of that. You
saw that a little bit with the Intelligent Design Movement in the 90s with Michael Bihie. Is it Bihie
or Bayhie? Yeah, Michael Bihie, yeah. Bihie's Darwin's Black Box, where he argued for this idea
of irreducible complexity. That was ultimately refuted by a lot of different biologists.
Biologists who decided to engage with him. But if there was an area of nature that we could find
that would open up, that would lend positive, credible evidence for the supernatural,
that would cause me to rethink my position. If I talked to Dr. French five years from now,
and he said, well, as a matter of fact, Michael, I've done five double blind studies on psychic
phenomenon. And guess what? Psychic powers are real. I've got to, that wouldn't cause me to
believe in God, but that would open up the gate for the supernatural. As it stands, I don't, yeah.
Wouldn't they become just natural phenomenon then? You know what I mean? Like dark matter,
as far as we know, is a supernatural phenomenon now. But as soon as we explain it, it becomes
natural. Well, I think it would be, maybe natural is not the right word, non-material.
That's good. Well, hang on. Aren't there some things in the universe now that are
non-material, like a photon's material? Is gravity material?
Fantastic questions. Do you want to talk about that?
Do you maybe mean spooky non-material? Is that what you mean?
Right. So I think that there are certain mathematical explanations for reality
that may not necessarily be reducible to material. And for that reason, I'm not a
strict materialist. So photons might purely be mathematical entities. Don't know. Yeah.
Not my area again. What psychic phenomena would show is that there are
higher level non-material agents at work slash play. Yeah. That makes sense.
I would just need to see that, that gap. So what would change my mind would be something
like consciousness or something like psychic phenomenon that wouldn't fit in with our existing
paradigm? Okay. That makes sense. Okay. I've got a bonus question, and this is just a fun bonus
question. So the bonus question is, if you could believe in one type of existence after death,
right? So either reincarnation, the biblical heaven, you're in an alien arcade, and when you die,
you take off the VR glasses, and your life was just one big VR experience. What would you choose?
And as soon as you believe it, it was reality. What would you choose as your favorite type of
after death thing, like reincarnation? That's an easy question for me. The ancient Egyptian
afterlife. Tell me about the ancient Egyptian afterlife. I don't even know the ancient Egyptian
afterlife. This is the history teacher in me. Yeah. The ancient Egyptians, well, assuming that my,
by the way, if you haven't watched it, go watch Moon Knight, the Marvel's new series.
He's possessed by an Egyptian deity. I won't give any spoilers. But the ancient idea,
Egyptian, assuming that I could pass the test, which was you have to have your heart weighed
against the feather to see if you've created more order than chaos in your life. And if you
did not, then you were eaten by Amit, which is this crocodile leopard thingy. I wouldn't want that,
right? Wow, man, I need to look into Egyptian mythology. This is it. It's good stuff. Yeah.
But the Egyptian heaven, referred to as the field of reeds, was basically
like all the best aspects of this life. No pain, no sorrow, just all the good stuff forever, right?
So like, for the Egyptians, like what the good life meant was like, you had an area of land
that you could work that always produced the best fruit and wheat, like you always had like the
best beer available to you, all the best produce available to you. You could work the fields if
you wanted something to do. But if you didn't feel like working the fields that day, you could
create these like little clay people that would go and work the fields for you. And you could like
take a nap and drink beer if you wanted to. Yeah, I think that's what I would go with.
This kind of reminds me of Mark Twain's. Have you seen that Mark Twain video? It's like a video
by Mark Twain where the devil appears and they're all like clay figures and stuff. It's spooky. Anyway.
And your pets would be there too, your deceased. Oh, that's so awesome. Yeah, that's cool. Yeah,
whatever afterlife has our pets would be great. Besides our old cat, he was dick.
But anyway, thank you so much, Michael, for coming on the Deep Drinks podcast. This has been one of
the best conversations I've ever had in my life. It's been absolutely fascinating. If anyone is
interested in learning more about Michael or learning about philosophy and history, I definitely
recommend checking his channel. Links are in the description. And yeah, thank you so much for coming
on, Michael. I really appreciate you having me. I had a lot of fun with this. Thank you. Thanks.
