You used to be able to say to people,
oh, you don't believe in evolution.
Well, do you believe in the germ theory of disease?
But now you can't say that because I go, no, I don't.
Investigate your faith because truth withstands scrutiny.
So we shouldn't be afraid to scrutinize
and look behind the curtain because if the Bible is true,
no matter how much you investigate,
it's going to be vindicated by the investigation.
You can study chemistry and geology
and you can look at these ice cores
and you can look at dendrochronology
and trees and biology.
And I always ask these people,
what is a better tool than the scientific method
for investigating the natural world?
The pyramids themselves are in a necropolis.
They're surrounded by tombs.
I don't know how my grandma made her famous apple pie,
but I know it wasn't aliens.
MUSIC
Hey, everyone. Welcome to the Deep Drinks Podcast.
My name is Dave. This is a podcast where the drinks are deep.
The conversations are deeper.
And today we have Thomas Westbrook,
who you may know as Holy Kool-Aid.
Thomas Westbrook is the creator of the popular channel,
Holy Kool-Aid, which boasts 235,000 subscribers
and 26 million views, which is insane.
Thomas is a former Christian, now atheist,
who promotes scientific skepticism and free thought,
helping people build skills necessary
to debunk pseudoscience and misinformation.
In my opinion, Thomas is one of the most genuine
and down-to-earth content creators that are on the platform.
He has amazing locks, as you can see.
Look at those beautiful locks. I love them.
And he speaks at conferences all over the world,
so I'm honored to welcome Thomas Westbrook
to the Deep Drinks Podcast.
Welcome, Thomas.
It's quite the introduction. Thank you.
Awesome.
Well, Thomas, I want to start this by saying that
when I was talking to Shannon Q.,
I mentioned the drink that you chose
for the Deep Drinks Podcast, and she responded by saying,
of course he chose that, because it is a doozy.
So I would like, normally I introduce what we're drinking,
but I'd like for you to explain, what are we drinking today?
Well, can I say the name of the drink on the show,
or am I allowed to swear?
Yeah, absolutely. Swear as much as you want.
So the drink is called an Audio's Motherfucker.
And it's basically, it's like a Long Island iced tea
in terms of its alcohol content.
But you add a dollop of this blue stuff to it.
And so by the time that we're done,
we should be thoroughly tipsy, at the very least.
And so the reason that I chose this drink
is because at the end of every single one of my episodes
on my show, I always say, dare to be curious,
but don't drink the Kool-Aid.
Like go out there and explore, but be careful,
because you don't want to be so open-minded
that your brain falls out, that you just go chasing that
off after every cult leader and crazy person that comes along.
Now, because I say that at the end of every single one
of my episodes, when I started hosting a conference
called the Faithless Forum, we would bring content creators,
various atheists and skeptic content creators together
for a conference.
And at the after party, we had custom drinks.
And a lot of the custom drinks had names relevant
to our channels.
And mine was called the Kool-Aid.
And what better drink to choose for the Kool-Aid
than a bright blue drink that literally has a warning on it
saying, do not drink this, because it
is so alcoholic that it will land you on your butt faster
than you can say, don't drink the Kool-Aid.
That is so awesome.
I'm so glad I waited to hear that story.
That's awesome.
And we mentioned just before we started this
that you have a show to go to after this.
And I have a family event to go to after this.
And we're both going to probably rock up quite jolly,
so to say the least.
So we've both got these drinks in front of us.
We've got to mix them, because there's a lot involved, right?
So do you want to give us a rundown
how we mix in this drink?
You're the expert.
So the first step is you're going
to take about a half an ounce of vodka, which I believe.
A half an ounce is what?
About a shot?
So I don't know, because in Australia,
we use the correct measurement system,
which we don't use ounces and stuff.
We use like kilograms and millimeters,
because we're part of them.
So I was trying to make a joke, but you didn't bite.
You're supposed to bite.
So I don't know.
So I'm just going to go with a shot for each.
About 15 milliliters?
Yeah, but I don't know how much is in a shot.
So I'm just going to pour a shot in for each one.
I'm just going to mix it in the big cup
and then see if it all fits into the normal-sized cup.
So half an ounce of vodka.
And then take a half an ounce of rum.
And I'm not an expert on this, but I
think you want to use white rum.
At least that's what I've got.
Well, I've got this fancy-ass rum
that I got for another episode.
So I don't know if it's white or not, but no, it's definitely
not white.
You can use other rums, but I think
if you go with a super-spiced rum,
it would maybe add a slightly different flavor
than what AMFs end up with.
But that's OK, because if it adds a little bit of fun spice,
it already is kind of a citrusy drink.
I'm sure it'll be all right.
I'm not waiting.
I don't think we're drinking this and going,
the flavors are so complex.
And this serves a very different purpose
than the traditional cocktail, I guess.
Exactly.
And then after that, you get another shot of tequila.
Oh, yeah.
I got this one, Altos something.
I just got this Camarena.
Oh, nice.
Did you have all this in stock, not in stock,
but just at your house?
Most of it.
I didn't have any rum, but I had picked up
a bunch of this stuff before because I had some friends over
and they wanted to do AMFs while they were here,
simply because it's the Kool-Aid.
It's a drink.
Oh, yeah, it's a Kool-Aid.
Don't drink the Kool-Aid or do if it's delicious.
All right, let me not lose track of what all I've put in there.
So now we're down to the gin.
Yeah.
I've got bootles of gin over here.
I've got the botanist who I drank with.
Heating Queen, I think, I believe.
Yeah, I may have poured a couple of these shots too generously.
I'm starting to like this.
Look at this.
Look at this.
I'm going to be sloppy.
So I need to apologize on behalf of the audience.
I have to drink what the guest drinks.
I don't want to drink alcohol.
They just always seem to choose it.
So I'm going to be quite sloppy by the end.
And then the next ingredient is this.
I have heard it called both blue curacao and blue curacao.
But I think that when there's a C with a line through it,
that's a CH sound.
OK.
I've never heard of this before.
Who's wrong and who's right?
Because I'm not exactly an expert in my own drink.
I'm just looking like how much alcohol this is.
And I actually, like I was kind of memeing before,
but I'm actually a little nervous now.
This is a lot.
This is going to be fun.
And now you do four times that with sweet and sour mix.
But I don't think that the sweet and sour mix,
yes, it's non-alcoholic, unless you've got an alcoholic version.
No, no, no.
Oh, god, no.
I'm just going to pour one in and just eye it.
May God have mercy on your soul.
All right.
And then splash of Sprite.
Yeah.
Then what you do is you take the Sprite
and you fill it all the way to the top.
I'm going to put some ice in.
Is that cool?
Yeah, I added a little bit of ice in mine as well.
Oh, my gosh.
Oh, Thomas, this looks like death warmed up.
I can smell it.
It's like stinging my eyeballs.
Yeah, then you can use either Sprite or 7-Up.
Oh, mine's a little shaken.
Yes, it's mine.
The spirit's moving.
Almost got some on my keyboard.
That would have not been good.
That would have been a fun interview.
So now you.
This is the first time we've mixed drinks on the podcast
and I tell you what, this is fun.
It is fun.
It's more complicated than just pouring a shot of whiskey.
You might be setting a whole new tone for the podcast.
So then you take a cherry, which I should have grabbed a fork,
but I guess a knife would work.
I don't actually have any of the garnishes, unfortunately.
Yeah, the garnishes are optional.
You can choose.
You can also add a lemon wedge.
I picked up a lime, but I can't find my lime.
So I actually just have a cherry.
Have you had any drinks so far?
Because you're forgetting.
I can't find the lime.
Yeah, I mean, I guess I'm off to a bad start
if I'm already misplacing things.
Or a good start.
I mean, all right, so look at this thing.
Misplaced stuff all the time anyways.
All right, so I'm just going to pour mine in
and try not to spill it everywhere.
Now, the thing is, because mine's in a big cup,
a lot of this is sprites, but there's still
like five shots or something in here.
So I have to go through both of these,
but it's not like I'm drinking more alcohol than you
by drinking two.
Yeah, well, look at this.
Look at the color of mine.
I don't know what happened to yours.
Mine's definitely more blue.
Yours is darker because you used a darker color rum.
Yeah, and maybe it's your, lift yours up.
I think your green screen might be, yeah, your green.
Yeah, that's funny, although you can't see me behind it.
So it's weird.
Now we're breaking the immersion.
Everyone thought you were in this big library.
This is, oh, no.
Oh, I'm too full with that many books.
Oh, heck would it be, though?
That's like my dream, to be rich enough to own a library
of books that I'll never get around to reading.
So this is actually a really good way to start
because you grew up religious, like really religious, right?
And you probably had never drank alcohol until you were old.
Well, not exactly because, so I did grow up very religious,
but I also grew up overseas.
I was a missionary kid.
And in the US, there tends to be a very strong kind
of strict, no alcohol, if you're underage type of thing.
Overseas, it's not as big of an issue.
And my parents weren't quite as strict.
Like they were strict about a lot of stuff.
They were super strict about anything sexual.
They were strict when it came to language, what movies
and shows I watched.
And they didn't like me drinking alcohol.
So like I kind of didn't normally tell them.
But it wasn't this end of the world.
Like I remember after I had my first beer,
I think when I was 15.
And I bragged to my mom about it.
And she was kind of noticeably upset.
But because it was over at one of my friend's house
while his parents were there and like it was supervised,
she didn't really throw too much of a fit.
And then whenever I would go out with friends and stuff,
we would, you know, we'd get a couple beers
and play some pool.
It was, in that area, it was a lot less strict
than you would expect.
Yeah, oh well.
Okay, that's really interesting.
So can you like give us a bit of a backstory
on like your Christian, or your brought up Christian?
Did you have a born again experience?
Did you, what type of Christianity were you involved in?
Yeah, so my parents were missionaries, like I said.
And the organization that they were with is,
it's called YWAM.
And it's considered as a-
I know YWAM.
It's like a non-denominational or multi-denominational,
but at the same time it got started
kind of in assemblies of God.
It's very evangelical.
They believe in faith healing.
They believe in, you know, demons and angels
and spirits and stuff.
They pretty much everything in the Bible
is taken pretty literally.
I think you may have some people
who are not young earth creationists
that are a part of the organization,
but most of them are fairly fundamentalist.
And that was my upbringing.
So I, from the time I was about three years old,
I was a missionary kid overseas.
And I had a, you know, I was dedicated to God as a baby.
I was baptized when I was seven years old.
I, you know, threw myself into the church,
had devotions every morning, quiet time on my own
every morning, read the Bible constantly,
memorized huge sections of it,
went to church every Sunday, youth group, everything.
And then in addition to that,
when I was, when I got older
and I graduated from high school,
I worked at a church camp as a church camp counselor.
I worked at a church as a youth pastor
and a worship leader briefly just for a summer.
But I also was a missionary in Kazakhstan for one semester.
I was a Christian fraternity.
I really pretty much anything that you could do in ministry,
I threw myself wholeheartedly into it,
very much believed it,
very much thought it was true,
was completely dedicated to God.
And so whenever people, you know,
come out people who don't know me,
who have these accusations that say,
oh, you were never a true Christian
or else you wouldn't be an atheist now.
I'm like, sadly it doesn't work like that.
People can change their minds over time
as they're presented with new evidence
and realize that, hey, there's better explanations
for this stuff.
And I think I was wrong, you know?
Yeah.
Did you have like a born again experience?
Yeah, multiple, like there were multiple times
when I, you know, I did the altar call
and I, you know, I prayed the prayer and, you know,
got, you know, confirmed and in my faith,
there were numerous times when I felt
like I was experiencing the Holy Spirit.
I got the chills, the goosebumps, the excitement, you know,
we called it being drunk on the spirit
because you kind of just almost go into sort of like a trance.
For me, it wasn't like jumping around
like these crazy Pentecostal dances so much,
but like I would, there were multiple times
when I was just like sobbing and like hands in the air,
just, you know, praying and feeling like I was caught up
in that energy.
Yeah.
And in retrospect, now when I look back on it,
it's an experience that I've seen replicated
in multiple other religions.
And I've even seen people in these, you know, crazy concerts
where they're just so ecstatic, just going nuts
because there's Justin Bieber or there's Michael Jackson
and they're just almost having this surreal spiritual
experience, but there's nothing spiritual
or supernatural about.
And so because of that, when I had those experiences earlier
and then as I got older, I realized,
hey, these are literally just chemical phenomena
that are going on in the brain.
It's very hard for me to claim
that that was something supernatural.
It was the same experience everyone else around me
was experiencing, at least the way that they described it
was the same.
I can't put myself inside their brain,
but from everything else that I was hearing,
I was going through the same thing they were.
It is interesting.
I just released a video I was interviewed
by Michael Granado the other day and he asked me,
like, how do I reconcile these spiritual experiences
I have with now no longer being a believer?
And my thoughts were exactly like yours,
is that there are other religions
that have these same claims, these same experiences,
or my wife, when she would go to musicals,
she'd have these same feelings that she'd get in church.
So I don't deny that I had those experiences.
I just don't attach a truth claim to them.
I don't say, therefore, God is real and Adam and Eve were real.
And I just say, okay, I had these experiences.
I may not be able to explain it.
I think it's probably mostly psychological,
some form of, could even be some form of hypnosis
for the really insane moments,
but some sort of an illusion, I guess.
But I don't know, but yeah, it doesn't seem to,
it would be hard for different religions
to all point to the same,
to all have certain experiences
and then they're all mutually exclusive, you know what I mean?
Yeah, and if you want to kind of look into
the psychology behind it and the neuroscience behind it,
we know that these type of experiences
that are setting you up for this big thing,
this anticipation, you get this spike of dopamine.
So you feel euphoric, you feel great in the moment.
At the same time, you're stressed
because they're calling you forward.
You're standing up in front of people,
you're walking forward on that altar call.
And so, you've got this tremendous amount of like adrenaline
or your veins and serotonin and glucocorticoids and stuff.
So like all of these chemicals are like the stress aspect
of it, but then people lay hands on you
and you're getting the physical touch
and you've got the oxytocin flowing through you.
You just get this sense of like this flood of relief.
And a lot of times these chemicals
can act as painkillers too.
So if they're preying over you for some type of pain
that you have, some chronic pain or something in your body,
you know, you're getting that flood of relief from that.
And sometimes you've got the placebo effect as well.
If there's certain conditions
that maybe have a psychosomatic element to them,
then you may get, you know, some relief that's,
you know, longer term than just an immediate sensation.
And so you kind of couple all of that together
and you're in a situation where the music is amped up,
all these other people are in on it.
You know, you don't want to disappoint.
You don't want to let others down.
You really, really want it to be true.
You feel like you've been propped up
as this horrible Philips Center.
And now here's your chance to be clean
and to just lay it all down and you're forgiven.
And it's just this flood of emotions
and just like, I don't deserve this.
You have all of this stacked up
and it's this perfect cocktail for this kind of experience.
Emile Durkheim refers to it as collective effervescence
where you're in this group state of, you know,
whether you're moving all together,
swaying together, raising your hands together,
clapping, you know, doing some of the songs we would do
had hand motions and stuff.
Sometimes people would dance.
You look at the Sufi Muslims,
they'll be running around in a circle together.
So you're getting kind of this dizzy high
in addition to all of this.
And you add all of that together
and now you're in this perfect situation
to where you're susceptible for, you know,
any kind of influence that someone has on you
where this, especially if you have like a pastor
who's seen as the authority figure
and he's the one who's here to, you know,
lay his hands on you and heal you and cure you
and forgive your sins and all this stuff.
And all of a sudden you are now,
you're now vulnerable to that.
You're open to it, but you're also,
you feel like there's something more
than just the physical.
Because in our day to day,
when we're just sitting around the house watching to you,
we don't usually have this, you know,
cocktail of emotions and chemicals exploding in our brains.
That is, that has to be the most succinct explanation
of this spiritual kind of stuff that I've ever heard.
That is profound.
Because that all makes sense, right?
There's like this, this group mentality.
There's, it's all, it's all kind of happening.
The flood of dopamine that, you know, removes pain.
A friend of mine, yeah, he broke his neck
and he was in a cast and in a prayer meeting,
they cut off his cast with his broken neck
and then dug their knuckles into his broken neck
to prove that it was healed.
Cause he's like, I can't feel anything
and then digging it in and digging it in.
And, you know, he couldn't move his head before that.
And he was healed.
Like he had no issues for three days
until he was rushed to emergency again
because his neck, something happened to his neck.
And, you know, and then it was a big puzzle.
Why did this happen?
Why, you know, did he have sin?
Did he think of a woman lustfully?
Did he, I'm not, this wasn't spoken about,
but this is what people are probably thinking, you know?
Why did it come back?
Is this the devil's work, you know?
Whereas in actuality, it probably wasn't healed at all.
He probably had, you know, the pain relief from,
like I was saying, there's this neurological cocktail.
And then at the same time,
if he's had this restrictive cast on, you know,
kind of cutting off the blood circulation
and the blood flow just a little bit
on like the skin and all of a sudden they take that off.
And he's kind of getting a little bit of like
tingling sensation back, but the pain is still kind of,
you know, maybe a little bit of relief from not having it
so constricted, but he doesn't have the support
and his neck is still broken.
And now you've got people digging into a person
with a broken neck.
And rather than being like, hey, let's be cautious
with this, let's go get an x-ray
and see if the neck is actually healed.
Instead, they're just like, oh, if we did that,
then that wouldn't be faith.
And we have to believe on faith, yeah.
I just love, like you're on the other side of the world,
you're Northern Hemisphere and Southern Hemisphere.
And we just, we both have the same,
we know the thought process of like these people,
like the same experience.
How did, so like, you went through spiritual experiences
and things like that.
How did you start to question your faith?
It was definitely a long process.
I didn't just go one day from, hey, I believe all of it.
And then there's one little seed of doubt and I was out.
It was a gradual, slow journey.
I think that some of the early seeds
that I can remember at least were,
when I was in high school, maybe 16, 17,
my youth pastor, who was a fairly liberal youth pastor
compared to what I was used to,
he was an old earth creationist
and he believed in evolution.
And I remember him telling me that when you go off to college
and you learn all of this stuff and you realize that,
hey, there actually is a lot of evidence
for evolution in an old earth,
you don't have to throw out your faith.
You don't have to throw out religion.
It's okay to believe that,
the first few chapters of Genesis are metaphorical
and that God used evolution as a process to get us here.
And so initially I was like,
oh, that didn't quite sound right to me,
but I became more open to parts of the Bible
not being literally true
and parts of it being metaphorical.
And when I went off to college, sure enough,
after a little bit of time,
I started kind of looking into it
and taking some science classes
and watching TED Talks and reading books
and realized that this actually is the way
that the world works.
This is the way that we got here, evolution is happening.
It's been happening for billions of years.
And because of that,
I kind of started kind of shifting away
from this literalist interpretation.
And also I had a friend,
I remember when I was a church camp counselor,
he told me that it's okay to investigate your faith
because truth withstands scrutiny.
So we shouldn't be afraid to scrutinize
and look behind the curtain
because if the Bible is true,
no matter how much you investigate,
it's gonna be vindicated by the investigation
and the truth will always still shine out as the truth.
And so I was open to exploring.
And the more that I explored,
the more that I realized that there was not
a lot of truth to this stuff.
Like there were elements,
there were bits and pieces of history,
there were bits and pieces of truth kind of sprinkled
throughout and that's kind of what I've been exploring more
lately is now the historical side of it.
And looking at the archeological findings
and stuff to see how much of the Bible is actually history
and how much of it is myth and how much of it is legend.
And there's any historian will tell you
that it's difficult to come up with definitive answers
for any of that.
But the further back you go in time,
the less historical it becomes.
Yeah, interesting.
Do you find, like on a side note,
do you find that now that you don't have, I guess,
I'll say the burden of faith,
the burden of religiosity, I guess,
even though I think religion can do some good things.
Do you find that investigating the historicity of the Bible
and the other religions is more interesting?
Oh, way more interesting.
In fact, investigating everything I feel
is way more interesting.
There's a passage in the book of Job
where basically, for your viewers who,
the odd viewer who doesn't know the story of Job,
basically it's this guy who in the Bible,
God decided to test him or allowed the devil to test him.
And he lost all of his family, he lost all of his wealth,
all of his flocks and he's basically sitting there
covered in all of these boils
and all of his friends are mocking him saying,
you must have ticked God off and done something awful.
And Job's like, no, I've been righteously following him
and I continue to follow God.
And even though people are saying curse God and die,
he doesn't do it, he stays faithful to the end.
And then when God shows up and gives him all of his wealth
back and gives him a new family and all this stuff,
then Job's like, why'd this happen?
And God's like, how dare you question me?
Like, were you there when the foundations of the earth
were laying, have you seen the marvels of the stars
and all of this stuff?
And the description of it is very, very iron age
and limited in its imagination.
And as soon as you start to realize
how the universe actually works,
you start to realize that we have probed
the depths of the oceans and we have put a probe
on a comet and landed on the moon
and looked out into outer space
and measured exactly what various stars
and supernovae are made of.
And the lack of imagination in scripture,
it's so limited in comparison to what science has opened up
for us to explore and discover and find out
and realize that, holy crap,
we literally are made of stardust
because these stars, these planets that we're observing
that are coming together, all that takes to form a star
is like matter, gravity and time, that's it.
And you've got these dust clouds of hydrogen
and the most basic possible simplest elements
that over time they come together
and all that gravity creates a larger and larger mass
and that adds up pressure and the pressure makes heat.
And then before you know it, you have enough
that they ignite into these gigantic balls
that have nuclear fusion going on
and they're forming harder and heavier and heavier elements.
And these heavy elements,
when the stars eventually collapse and explode outwards,
those are the elements that are found in me
and you and everyone else.
And we should discuss this.
It's so beautiful, hey, it's amazing to think of that.
I remember when I first started looking into evolution,
I was just so amazed at the fact that life,
like we could look back in the geologic column
and we could see life progress through.
And I was just like, I looked at my dog at the time
who had his, he was de-sexed and I'm looking at him
and I'm like, you're the end of the line.
Like 3.4 billion years of evolution,
you've gone through like so much,
your gene pool has been and you're just dead,
you just stop or like, I'll look at him
because he was a bit useless.
And I go, this is what 3.4 billion years of evolution
has come onto, your snotty nose,
you got floppy ears, like yeah.
And it was just amazing.
Like I got such an appreciation for life
and the planet and the environment and space.
It's just, it's incredible.
Especially when you put it in perspective of like,
I used to think the earth was 6,000 years old
and Adam and Eve were real and things like that.
So it's just such a more exciting thing.
I would agree with you so much there.
Well, and here's where it gets crazy
is you can explore more than just one field.
So I mean, one of the most exciting things
with this whole process is back when I was religious,
it was like, okay, this book, this is the truth.
And then there's these evil scientists out there
that are trying to deceive you
and trying to plant seeds of doubt
and they're in league with the devil
or whatever else, whatever other reason,
they just want a little life of sin
so they keep promoting this nonsense.
And yet when I got out of it
or even while I was still in it
and I started exploring and looking,
I started to realize that it's not just this overarching idea
of like the scientists, you have people studying ice cores
in Antarctica that are digging down miles deep.
And they know that in these areas that have permafrost
that the ice is laid down every single year.
And they don't look by how deep it is,
but they can go back and see how many years
the ice has been laid down.
And the way that they measure this
is they take these ice cores that they drill out
and they place them on a little melting plate.
And as the ice melts,
they're using spectrographic analysis
to see exactly, exactly what the chemical composition is.
And so it like melts and you see,
as it's melting, if you look at time on the x-axis,
you're seeing certain chemical fluctuations
going up and down at a steady rate.
And basically what it's indicating is that
as the seasons pass, as you go from the spring to the summer
to the winter to the fall,
then you have in the air, in the snow, these chemicals,
you'll see certain spikes and dips throughout the season.
So you might see a certain higher amount
of one chemical abundance in the summer
and then it might drop in the winter.
And it's a very consistent way that it goes through that.
And so basically they can take these ice cores
and they can melt them on these sheets,
these melting plates and measure that
and see back tens of thousands of years just using this.
And it's incredible because then there's overlap
with so many other fields
because they can measure a bunch of different things.
They can see how much carbon was in the atmosphere
at 10,000 years ago or 5,000 years ago.
And they can use these measurements
to help better calibrate our other instruments
for say carbon-14 dating,
or they can look at tree rings and look at,
if they lay down certain trees
will create one ring every single year.
And then other trees,
then they can look at those trees
and see if this tree is 500 years old.
They look at that and they look at another tree
that maybe was cut down 500 years ago
or 250 years ago that has some overlap
and they see exactly based off of how thin and thick they are.
They can go back and the scientists have done this
with fossilized forests on top of fossilized forests
that like go back tens of thousands of years
where there's a volcanic eruption that would bury it in ash
and they'd get all the trees would die.
Then there'd be another forest
that would rise on top of that one
and then it would happen again.
And so like you can go way further back.
And this isn't even using radiometric dating
or carbon dating or there's various forms
of radiometric dating like uranium lead
and potassium argon and others.
And yet every single one of these methods
they can use to date things.
Thermaluminescence is another one for dating pottery
and they're all very different ways of dating things
but you can take objects that you know how old they are.
And like let's say that there's an object
that has historical writing
and it's tied to a specific person.
You know that when that person lived
because we have a written record all the way back
that's unwritten.
And you can use these measurements and measure it
and you get a measurement that falls within that window.
And then you go back further
and it's these consistent rates
and you can keep going further
and further and further back.
And so for the younger generation
to just come along and be like,
nope, it's just the Bible says, the Bible told me so.
And there's no evidence.
Whereas with science, the fact that you can like
you can study chemistry and geology
and you can look at these ice cores
and you can look at dendrochronology
and trees and biology.
You can look at the rate at which mutations happen
and you can go back and take a sample, a DNA sample
from an early human that was frozen in ice 50,000 years ago
and analyze the DNA.
And you see that the amount
that they are distantly related to us,
basically, you can do like a carbon 14
dating on that person that frozen corpse.
And then you can also look at the DNA
and see the difference in the mutation from them to us.
And it perfectly adds up with the rate of mutation.
And so Christians will come along and try to say,
well, how do you know that the rate is constant?
And it's like, okay, well, if let's say that the person was,
they were mutating at a much higher rate,
well, then you get this little thing called cancer
and you die.
If the rate of let's say of carbon 14,
the isotope basically degrading into carbon 12,
if that rate were astronomically higher
to where the earth was 6,000 years old,
then if it was going through that kind
of a rapid, rapid change, it would be so hot
that it would be like the entire earth would basically be
like in this like nuclear eruption.
Yeah, yeah.
So you really, like they try to pick
and choose like, they'll try to discount carbon 14 entirely
and they'll try to discount other stuff,
but they do it all, kind of one at a time,
shooting things down.
Yeah, yeah.
You realize that there's this mountain,
this absolute gigantic mountain
of like hundreds of different fields
and they're all overlapping.
And they're all, if it's a Venn diagram,
there's like this circle of stuff that they all agree on
and they all confirm and nothing has disproven this.
And that's the theory of evolution by natural selection.
It's one of the most attested two theories
like, oh, it's just a theory
and they don't understand what theory is.
Yeah, I know, I know.
That always, that always drives me nuts.
Do you, what's, what's, what I've, what I always,
what I think is the golden standard.
And then I'm not a scientist, but I love science.
But what I, what I always love is that
when we build these models of reality,
we can produce novel testable predictions.
So for example, we're like, okay,
the theory of evolution says X, Y, Z,
that means that we should see A, B, C at this location,
they go there, they dig up Tiktok.
Like it's just for that to be,
for that to like be a coincidence would be mind-boggling
or the cosmic microwave background radiation.
Okay, this is what the Big Bang says.
This is what the math says.
And then, you know, I think it was like 15 or 30 or 50 years
later, it was a long time later.
I'm some scientists were like,
hey, our instruments are picking up something.
You know, I spent a long time researching it.
They find it's picking up this background radiation.
They map it to the, the math for what should be
the cosmic microwave background radiation.
And it's exactly like, it's like point-for-point,
perfect representation of what they're analyzing.
And when it's, when, when they're off, when it's wrong,
they go back to the drawing board
and they refine their calculations and they come up
with a new hypothesis and they test it.
And if it has predictive capabilities
and it's falsifiable and they test it and test it and test
it, they're like, hey, this is fitting all the data.
This is pretty good.
So, you know, there's times when, you know,
they might get something wrong
or they might be inaccurate or something.
It's always science that makes it more accurate.
It's not, oh, I had a revelation and I prayed about it.
And all of a sudden now, you know,
God told me to completely overthrow everything
that we know about gravity.
It's no, the, the theory that we had, you know,
with the Newtonian mechanics was pretty good,
but it wasn't quite accurate enough because once you get out
to like the 10th or 20th decimal or whatever,
and you're looking at gigantic objects in outer space,
all of a sudden it's not, it's not quite accounting
for Mercury's orbit or something.
And so there's like these little things where, you know,
they'll come in and they'll, you know,
make a change that explains it better,
more precisely, more accurately.
And so it's not like all of a sudden,
if I were to throw a ball up in the air
and it lands back down, it's not like, oh no,
scientists were wrong, gravity actually causes the ball
to float up and it's, you know,
there's no such thing as gravity.
He's like, no, Newtonian mechanics is still incredibly useful
and incredibly accurate.
It's just not quite as accurate
because it's not the best that we have anymore.
We've gotten better.
Yeah.
That's the thing too, is like a lot of people will,
when I'm talking to a lot of people I say,
well, science isn't always right
or science gets things wrong.
And I always just respond with like,
like that same argument with democracy.
Democracy is the worst form of government
besides all the others.
Or it's like, science is like,
science isn't perfect, but can you think of,
science isn't like this spiritual,
like God force that just tells you what's right and wrong.
It's a, the scientific method is a tool.
And I always ask these people,
what is a better tool than the scientific method
for investigating the natural world?
The best answer I've ever had was believing
that Jesus was the son of God.
And I said, sorry.
I said, how does that teach us about atoms?
And they said, I don't want to have this conversation anymore.
That's okay.
Jesus who told people that
they don't have to wash their hands
because it's not what enters their mouth
that makes them unclean.
But what's hot in the conspiracy theory world these days
is the germ theory of disease is not real, you know?
So that's one of the hot topics.
Yeah.
It used to be able to say to people,
oh, you don't believe in evolution.
Well, do you believe in the germ theory of disease?
But now you can't say that because I go, no, I don't.
And it's the same thing, you know, when you say,
oh, yeah, well, what about the theory of gravity?
And it's like snow, obviously something that has been,
you know, we know that gravity exists.
We've measured gravitational waves at LIGO.
Like we know that this is a thing.
We can predict exactly, exactly, exactly the orbits
of all the planets to the point where if you go back
5,000 years, 10,000 years, you can calculate
exactly where they are in the sky
and you can do the same thing moving forward.
It's because we understand gravity that we can do that.
And yet you have flat earthers that are coming out
and saying, well, gravity isn't real.
It's just, it's like density and buoyancy
or something like that.
Yeah.
It's utter nonsense.
My favorite thing is when they say,
water always finds its level.
I'm like, no, it doesn't.
Like, no, it doesn't.
What are you talking?
No, it doesn't.
Like for one, what do you think water droplets are?
Are they flat?
No, they're round.
Oh, that's just a small amount.
Okay, what are waves then?
Well, that's just why, okay, what are tides then?
Like, it's like water finds its level.
Like it sounds like a good argument.
But when you really ask them to explain
what any of these other phenomenon are,
they just collapse on itself.
And on top of that, it's like, okay, what about the,
you know, if you look at, if I take this cup
and I fill it all the way to the top
and it's the water is kind of sticking up
a little bit over the edge
because you've got surface tension.
You know, they're like, oh, that's just a little bit.
Okay, well, what about when you,
instead of just having the molecular bonds
that are kind of holding each other together,
what if instead you increase that by, you know,
this massive amount?
Like let's say that you have a force
that's a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot more powerful,
this huge object.
And then they're all kind of held to it
and sticking to it, like almost like gravity.
But it's like, it's like a round object.
It's like a globe.
It's not just a couple of molecules
that are held together by, you know, molecular bonds,
but instead it's actually, you know,
a larger object with, you know,
a really strong force that's, you know,
all together.
My favorite thing, I have some friends who are Flat Earthers
and I've asked them before,
I've literally asked them for like,
oh, like I don't want to be confrontational to them.
They're quite religious.
And I go, oh, you're a Flat Earther?
And they go, yeah.
And I go, why?
Can you tell me why?
Oh, I can't remember.
I'm like, what?
You can't remember why you're a Flat Earther,
like why you think the Earth is flat.
No, but I know it's flat.
Can you give me a reason?
Like, no, I don't know if I'll convince you.
But I'm not, I'm just asking for why you think
the Earth is flat.
I can't remember about the documentary show.
There's like a coin thing you could do
with your eyes and perspective.
And I'm like, but wait.
And I said to them, I'm like,
I'm not trying to like debunk you or anything.
I'm just, I'm interested.
I'm like, if you're flat, I want to know about it.
Like, I want to tell me the secret.
And they believed it, despite being able to even explain
why it was, why they, it is why they thought that.
Like it was nuts.
Like, yeah.
It's just some smart sounding person on YouTube said it.
And, you know, a lot of times I'll see Flat Earthers
that will respond similarly where they'll say,
oh, you're, you just believe that because, you know,
the mainstream media told you, the schools told you,
the scientists told you.
And I would say, well, okay, then go out and test it,
like measure it, learn some physics,
like actually learn how to do these experiments,
learn how to measure this stuff,
and then go out and do it.
And you'll find that the Earth very much is not flat.
The thing is that they don't,
they don't understand that there are millions
and millions of people on Earth
who aren't just taking, you know, the media
and the government at their word.
Like there's people who go to universities
and actually learn how to use these tools
and how to measure this stuff and how to test it
and how to try to debunk it.
And especially once you get into the higher levels,
not just the undergraduate,
but once you start getting into graduate degrees and PhDs,
you start learning how to explore and test and debunk
and try to falsify longstanding existing beliefs.
And you're encouraged to do that.
And you're encouraged to go out and try and test
and see stuff.
And if for some reason you come up with some experiment
that flips everything that we know on its head
and you're able to replicate it and show your work,
you win a Nobel Prize.
And it's sad to me when people just say,
oh, I don't know why this works,
but it's just true, because I heard someone say it.
I think that what I've noticed-
Where's our desire to know?
What I've noticed is,
and this is gonna be insulting to conspiracy theorists,
but what I've noticed is,
and I used to be a 9-11 truth at one stage, vaguely.
Like I used to, I watched Skype guys
and I was born into it when I was a teenager,
but-
I used to play on Indians.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, all that kind of stuff, right?
So like, but the thing is what I've noticed is,
and I'm applying this to myself back then as well,
is it's lazy.
It's intellectually lazy to,
usually to be a conspiracy theorist.
They're not interested in reading papers,
unless they can just read the headline and move on.
They're not interested in looking into the data.
They're probably not gonna read books on it, usually.
Most people, they're interested
because it's a cool documentary.
It's a cool Facebook post.
It's a cool, they feel it on the in-group.
They love the dramatic music and stuff.
And I just, it's sad to me that many times I've said,
oh, like a friend of mine said,
I work for a surveying and town planning company.
We do surveying and we literally have to put in
mathematical formulas into our data recorders
to put 2D plans on a spherical earth
because obviously over distances, the millimeters matter.
And he was saying to me,
well, the aliens had to have built the pyramids
because the pyramids are so accurate
that no modern technology today
can replicate how accurate they are.
And I was like, and I said, hang on.
And I looked it up and I was like, how many,
how accurate, how square is the pyramid?
Cause that's what he was saying.
And I was like, we have instruments that record
at a height distance of 0.1 millimeters, right?
So quite a small amount.
And that's just basic stuff.
That's not like even the high tech stuff.
And these pyramids were like 400 seconds out or something.
It was like a huge, like 400 seconds out.
We can't be three seconds out
on most construction sites for shopping centers.
Like you're telling me-
What do you mean when you say seconds out?
So in the, in surveying, you've got degrees, minutes, seconds.
So you've got 360 degrees and then between a degree,
between each degree is 60 minutes.
So more angles.
And then between each degree is 60 seconds.
So like, say if you've got a point here
and you're measuring to a point over here,
that angle between your point and the backstop,
what they call it, is measured in seconds, right?
Degrees, minutes, seconds.
So if you're shooting, if you're shooting
like a really long backside here,
you've got like a really long trig line here
and then you're shooting a small distance here.
That's okay.
Cause even one or two seconds out means that,
I think one second over 200 meters is two millimeters.
So, but if you're like five, six, seven seconds out,
if this distance gets like way out,
then all of a sudden like you're, you know,
a small, a few seconds out can be meters
and of difference.
And when you're talking about through holes,
when they have these massive objects
and they're trying to make them at right angles,
you're saying instead of being a perfect 90 degree,
it's off by-
I think it's off by 400 seconds when I looked it up
or it's a large amount or it might be 200 seconds,
but it's far more than anything that would accept it
on the most basic dog shit construct.
And yet meanwhile we have precision lasers
that can perfectly cut, you know,
3D print stuff precisely.
At the same time, we can go in and make, you know,
computer processing chips that have, you know,
however many millions of little transistors
and stuff in this technical space.
I think where his thoughts would have come from
is the documentary that he probably watched
on like Discovery Channel or something
about how ancient aliens built the pyramids
was probably something along the lines of,
we don't know how they did it back then.
We don't know how they had the technology back then.
And then, so that's probably,
and then he's like, we don't have the technology today.
This is how the thinking kind of, you know,
so anyway, I digress.
The thing is too, like I could,
whenever someone says we don't know how they did it,
therefore they couldn't have done it,
I'm like, okay, well, I don't know how my grandma
made her famous apple pie,
but I know it wasn't aliens.
I know that my grandma made the apple pie.
I saw her put it in the oven.
I've seen her take her recipe book out,
even if I haven't read it.
And I've seen her come back from the store
with apples and start cutting them.
So it's like that with the pyramids.
We have a tremendous amount of,
we have their quarries where they dug the rocks.
We have written records.
Hieroglyphs.
Do we really?
Yes.
We have their grave sites that the literal,
like the pyramids themselves are in a necropolis.
They're in a giant, they're surrounded by tombs.
So when people say like, oh, well, they couldn't,
you know, there's no way they were meant
to bury the pharaohs and these things.
It's like, it's literally in a graveyard.
The quarries are right there next to it.
We have their sleds that they hauled them on.
We have depictions of them hauling these blocks on sleds.
We have like the homes of the workers.
We have the tools of the workers.
We have all of this stuff.
We know that the Egyptians built the pyramids.
We have records.
Oh, do you mean the two million Israelites who?
Who somehow never have shown up in the archeological.
Yeah, exactly.
So Thomas, I want to keep this on, on topic,
but I do have this, or not on topic, but on time.
And I've started to feel the booze hit me.
So I thought this was a perfect time.
Hopefully you're also feeling it.
To do what I like to call.
Drink faster.
What I like to call, I did this only once before
with Shannon Q and you've both been on a little talk shows.
You were on talk even.
I'm not sure if you've been on the atheist experience,
but you get a lot of call-ins, been on a lot of call-in shows.
And it's called Atheism Destroyed, Checkmate Atheists.
And I'm going to, I've got 13 questions.
And I'm going to see if you can get through all 13 of them
in under three minutes.
So this is the game, okay?
Okay.
So they're typical questions like rapid fire.
So they're typical questions like, you know,
that you hear all the time, like, if they're a monkey,
if we came from monkeys, why are they still monkeys?
And you'll be graded and all the audience aside
against Shannon Q.
She got it done in two minutes and 28 seconds.
And you'll be graded on the quality of your answers
and the speed at which can you beat her speed, okay?
Can I just respond with gaaaah.
You can respond, you can respond.
You can respond however you like, okay?
So these are 13 questions.
Are you ready?
Are you down for this game?
Oh, the alcohol's hit me, but let's give it a try.
Let's give it a shot.
Okay, so I'm gonna start the timer now.
You say you don't believe in God.
How do you explain sunsets?
I mean, the sun goes around the earth
and once if we're right here and it's over here,
then it's blocked from view.
Where do you get your morals from?
We devise them.
We talk to other people.
We see what harms society and what benefits society
and we're able to improve them over time
rather than being stuck in the Iron Age.
Why do you hate God?
I don't.
Don't seashells on the top of mountains prove Noah's Ark?
No, they prove that when you have tectonic plates
and one of them is like pushing down into the other one
as they're shifting around
and it causes a mountain range to push up.
Then if it was previously submerged
then you'll end up with seashells.
Awesome, what about the second law
of thermodynamics?
I mean, the second law of thermodynamics.
What about it?
That it just proves evolution by biogenesis?
No, because on the whole our system's not a closed system.
The second law of thermodynamics
only applies to a closed system.
We've got the energy from the sun.
If you go back to the origin of the universe
and you look back, it was in the less entropic state.
It's in a more entropic state now,
but whether or not the second law of thermodynamics
also says that it tends to decrease.
It doesn't say that it's a hard and fast always will
and we don't know if it applies outside of this universe.
Oh, wow.
If we came from monkeys, why are there still monkeys?
Well, if we came from dirt, why is there still dirt?
If Americans came from British people,
why are there still British people?
Technically humans are still apes.
We're still a part of the same clade.
But modern-day monkeys and humans share a common ancestor.
We didn't come from modern monkeys,
we came from a common ancestor.
What if you're wrong?
Then I'll change my mind if I get better information.
You just have to have faith,
some of the questions from a statement.
I mean, I don't really see the value in that.
I don't want to believe, I want to know.
Where are the transitional fossils?
There's tons of them.
There's a crap ton of transitional horse fossils.
There's transitional whale fossils
that go back to like land mammals.
There's Tectolic, there's Archaeopteryx.
And here's the thing, those are the most famous ones.
But if you actually go and talk to a paleontologist,
there are literally thousands, if not millions.
Every single fossil is technically a transitional fossil.
And you can see how they are related to each other
genetically if they're more modern
and we can analyze the genome.
And when you go further back, then you can see
in terms of the shape and size and stuff of the bones
and whatnot, morphologically, how they are related.
Evolution is just a theory.
I mean, there's a lot of theories,
gravity, germ theory of disease,
but we already talked about that.
Relating to the Big Bang Theory.
Oh, sorry.
A theory is the highest standard
that you can reach in science, period.
It explains why something works.
It doesn't state.
Yeah.
Relating to the Big Bang Theory,
where did the exploding star come from?
I'm reading these out as I asked.
Where did the exploding star come from?
I mean, there's a ton of stars.
Basically, all you need, like I said earlier,
is gravity matter in time and matter causes,
as gravity causes matter to coalesce
into comps of matter that then erupt
as there's a lot of pressure.
We have only one Lucy.
When have we found,
why have we found more than one of everything else?
I don't think there's only one,
because Lucy is an astrolopithecus aphoransis, I believe.
And I'm pretty sure we found quite a few.
And the thing is there's, like fossils are sparse.
There's the fossil record, you know,
it takes a lot for a fossil,
especially an older one to be preserved.
And yet the fact that there are, you know,
hundreds of millions of different animals
and some of them had larger and smaller populations.
And we're not digging over the whole earth,
but like the longer that we dig
and the more time that we look for this stuff,
the more fossils we find.
And last question.
The Bible says that true Christians
will be hated and persecuted by the world.
Doesn't this content,
doesn't your content prove this point?
I mean, I don't force anyone to watch my content.
I don't, I don't persecute anyone.
If they want to turn off and unsubscribe
and close the browser, they're absolutely welcome to.
Okay.
Well, you had some very thoughtful answers,
but you did do it in four minutes and 40 seconds.
Oh no.
Lost a shot.
But I think your answers were pretty...
I'll get you next time, Sharon.
Oh, that was great.
There are some funny questions in there.
And there's...
You could just like cut out and splice out all the pauses.
Well, the problem is too,
I was so drunk in the Sharon episode
because it went for like three hours
that like I was like, like stumbling the words.
Like I was trying to read and I wasn't getting it done right.
What was her drink of choice?
She chose to drink a specific type of rum.
Of course.
And that I couldn't find,
I couldn't find it anywhere in Australia.
So I got this fancy ass rum here.
And then turns out she couldn't even get her type,
the type of rum that she thought she had.
So she couldn't get that either.
So she ended up drinking this like bottom of the barrel rum
that she just had in the pantry.
And I was like, this is perfect.
I was like, because Shannon just drinks rum.
I was like, this is just, you know...
So ended up being...
Are those rum?
I'm assuming.
It's no, it's...
Well, this one was this...
You can't probably not gonna load.
Does she drink rum just straight?
Or does she prefer like...
No, we had Coke Zero with it.
So...
It's like a rum and Coke.
So moving on to like your activism.
So I can tell already that you're like a strong advocate
for scientific skepticism, progressive values,
things like that.
Can you explain, like after you kind of
deconstructed your faith,
how did you get involved in activism?
Not intentionally.
I started my channel initially
because I had some experience with video editing.
I'd been making movies since I was in high school.
I'd messed around and made some videos on my phone,
just kind of like weird magic trick, you know,
by pausing and playing the camera.
I'd made some stop motion Lego videos,
which I still think are good, but they were pretty bad.
But I'm proud of them as my earliest stop motion endeavors.
And because of that,
because my family was super religious,
and because I always felt like
whenever I would try to talk about religion
or have conversations about things
that were remotely controversial,
my family would tend to interrupt and cut me off.
I have a suspicion that they may be as ADHD as I am,
but...
So I thought, hey, if I make these videos on YouTube,
I can simply share the link with them
and they can see the videos.
And that way I don't have to have an argument.
They can simply watch them and be like, huh.
Okay, so that's his thought process.
That's why he's not going to church anymore.
That's why he's, you know,
no longer believes in hell and demons and stuff.
And so I made a couple of videos,
didn't share them with my family.
I kind of chickened out a little bit
because I still was sort of a brand new fresh atheist.
I had no idea what I was doing
and how to talk about this stuff.
And I was not as confident in my position
or as well read on it.
And over time, I think I put out a video in 2015
and then I didn't make any content for months at a time.
And it wasn't this, hey, this is gonna be a full-time thing.
And then I made a couple other videos
and I shared them to a couple of atheist groups
and I saw that people were subscribing and following.
And I'm like, hey, this actually could grow into something.
And I saw a lot of fundamentalism here in the South.
And right around this time, Trump was getting elected.
And I was very concerned with the direction
that my country was going in
and radical evangelicalism and Christian nationalism
and the effect that it was having on the US.
And I decided I was gonna start talking about it more full-time.
But I started putting out videos
that were a little bit more comedic, but insulting.
I put out a series called Animated Bible Myths
and basically God's name was Dingleberry.
Yeah, I'll throw that one.
It's not the type of content
that necessarily will win people over.
It wound up, those were the videos
that some of my family found
and they were just insulted by it and upset.
And so I kind of discontinued that series for a while
and went more with exploring topics
and trying to explore ideas
and not attack people or make fun.
But I still, I throw in the occasional jab
at people like John Hayey and other pastors
who are particularly toxic.
Yeah, the Greg Lock types.
Yeah, as my channel started taking off,
I decided, hey, I think I want to do this full-time.
I think I can do this full-time.
There's sort of a gap in the niche
where people had been making atheist content
from about 2007 until about 2012.
And then a lot of the atheist content creators on YouTube
kind of shifted to talking more about social justice
and social issues and politics and feminism and stuff.
And there was a void where no one was talking
about religious fundamentalism and atheism.
And as a new atheist, I felt that void pretty hard
and I desperately wanted to have a community
and I figured that the best way to find a community
would be to build one.
And so I started making content.
I started reaching out to other YouTubers
and promoting them and collabing with them
and forming Facebook groups and bringing people together
and eventually set up a conference
and would fly people out and meet them in person
and have them speak at the conference
and we'd bring dozens of people in.
And over time, I kind of surrounded myself
with other content creators.
And now some of my best friends actually live here in Austin
and are other YouTubers and stuff
that kind of got started similarly to how I did
and are also atheists and stuff.
So it wasn't this intentional deliberate thing initially,
but then as I saw the direction that the country was going,
I decided that I was gonna cash in my savings,
my retirements and I actually flew overseas
and I lived in Southeast Asia for a while,
just trying to make my funds stretch
because you can get a really cheap apartment and cheap food.
And there's a lot of co-working spaces
with decent speed internet in Vietnam and Thailand.
And so I lived there for about six months
and kind of up in like, just like a small town
up North Chiang Mai.
And then I lived on an island called Kopen Yang.
I went to Vietnam.
I was in Hanoi and then Ho Chi Minh City.
And I didn't get to do as much like touristy,
like vacation-y type stuff
because I was working basically non-stop.
I was working like 12 hours a day
because I was terrified that my channel
wasn't gonna take off in time to be able to be self-sufficient.
Yeah.
But I really poured my heart and soul into it
and it really took off.
And then I came back to the States
and started doing the conference circuit and speaking and stuff
and then got invited to other places.
I flew out to Australia a while back for a conference.
I spoke at a conference in Israel.
I'm speaking at this one in Indiana coming up.
I've done ones in California and Texas pretty much all over.
And it just kind of became a thing
that because I was passionate about talking about this stuff
and because I have experienced
a lot of religious fundamentalism myself,
I really wanted other people to not feel alone
and to know that there are others
who have gone through this stuff
and who have been where they are
and who have come out of it
and who've come out of it and turned out okay,
that things do get better.
Even if you feel initially frustrated and angry,
like you've been lied to
or you feel depressed and sad,
like how do I find my purpose?
That there is a brighter side on the other side.
And if you keep going and you keep pushing through,
you can deconstruct and you can heal
and you can recover from the religious trauma
and the baggage that it's exciting to explore
and learn how the world works,
that you can find a community
even if you have to move somewhere,
that there are other people out there
and that you're not crazy
and that it's okay to be curious,
it's okay to explore and to learn this stuff
that in fact, it's a good thing.
And I think that by creating a community
and bringing people together
and setting up a conference and making videos
that there's been a lot of people
who I've been able to help
and that's kind of continued to fuel me
and the amount of encouragement and love
and support that I've received,
you know, sure I've gotten hate comments,
every YouTuber does, I've gotten death threats and stuff
but it pales in comparison to the number of people
who are supportive and who share my content
and who support my work on Patreon and stuff,
both financially as well as just like sending emails
and saying like, hey, you changed my life for the better.
And so it's hard to stop now
because it's a very fulfilling thing.
It's a, you know, I could have stayed,
I was working an IT job and I was going and showing up
and sitting in a cubicle all day
and just staring at lines of code and database stuff.
And I hated my job and I hated what I was doing
because I didn't feel like I was doing something
that it's not that those jobs are bad,
it's not that those jobs aren't needed
and that they aren't good.
Like I was working for a university
that like I attended and that I loved
but and you know, you can always do jobs like that
and pay your bills and then also do something on the side
that's, you know, a cause that you believe in
but being able to do the cause full time
has been immensely rewarding.
It was a long-winded answer to a short question.
That's a, like, I mean, yes, it was long-winded answer
but it was actually a beautiful answer
because I felt that whole thing there.
Like a big thing for me when I was like,
you know, deconstructing my faith is looking at,
I think I shot off emails to various, you know, people
just saying like, you know, thank you,
you've helped me feel comfortable about things
because it's a very, like I say this to people all the time
that when I was questioning my faith,
it was one of the most heartbreaking, scary,
traumatizing experiences of my life, but also exciting.
It was this weird, like, dichotomy.
All of a sudden I could look at fossils and go,
oh, wow, they, like, I got one up here.
65 million years old, what the fuck?
I bought it at Australia Zoo for like 30 bucks.
It's a little fish.
And I'm like, what, I'm like, this is crazy.
This is real.
This isn't like scientists, you know,
or the devil planting fossils to try and fool people.
This is real.
Like, I was like, this is really...
People don't realize that there are literally millions
and millions of fossils.
And, you know, you probably won't be able to easily
get ahold of a affordable TRX school intact.
But...
Because they're land animals.
Well, because they're so, they're not just incredibly old,
but they're also to be able to be preserved and intact
as big as they are and all this stuff.
Like, it's harder to get a specific fossil too.
But if you were to find something like a trilobite fossil,
there's literally just like a really...
Billions.
Diculants.
Diculous number.
Like, you just go and start digging
and you'll stumble across something.
But that might be a slight overstatement,
but like, if you dig in the right places, you'll absolutely.
Yeah.
I've got a book on trilobites up there.
And I was like, oh, trilobites are cool.
I haven't opened it yet, but it's there ready
for when I feel the call.
I just want to...
We've only got a little bit left in the interview,
but I do want to jump over some quick questions
if that's okay.
So some of these are from my Discord audience.
So one person asked,
do you recall the conversation with Jamie
on TalkHeaven where you dealt with Darth Dawkins
who was called EF at the time?
And if so, what did you learn
about pre-suppositional apologetics?
I've been on a lot of Colin shows.
That conversation comes up more often
than any other conversation.
And I think it's because Darth Dawkins has a reputation
among the Colin community of being the most insufferable,
close-minded.
He's so insufferable, so...
Fundamentalist on a script
where if he starts off on, hey,
I want to get from here to here.
I have made up my mind that this is a good argument.
I am not willing to listen
to a single thing that someone says
and I'm going to stay on script
even if you don't fight and you have something
that completely destroys my initial premise.
I am just going to railroad through and keep going
and not listen.
And that call, I think most calls on TalkHeaven,
usually around like May, 20 minutes maximum.
That call was like over an hour.
I could be wrong.
No, it is.
I'm only like 20 minutes into it and...
It was painful.
And we went so far over time with that show.
And I'm surprised that Jamie didn't just like cut it off
and say, hey, we have to go to the next caller.
But it was good viewing, I guess,
like people were commenting and people were pissed off
and saying, I'm never going to watch again if he calls in,
but at the same time, they're all talking about it
and sharing it and getting upset and stuff.
But presuppositional apologetics is frustrating
because the conclusion is presupposed
before they even begin.
Yeah, exactly.
And it's like if you put in,
it's like they're a computer program.
And unless you put in the correct string,
it's just like, nope, can't get past that section.
It does not compute.
Yeah, it does not compute, yeah.
I think there was a part in that conversation
where I was just like,
because he goes by a bunch of pseudonyms.
I think his pseudonym at the time was like EF or something.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I was like, EF, hear me out.
And he just like rattled off.
And I was like, EF, sugar muffin,
like it doesn't work that way.
And I have to, I'll link this in the description.
People need to check it out.
He, I think it caught him off guard
that I called him sugar muffin.
But then he didn't quite know how to come back.
And so he started like calling me baby cakes
and like a bunch of other stuff.
And really, he,
I need to watch this fully.
He did like to an excessive amount,
to a socially awkward amount.
Like he just like kept on reusing
the same thing that I had.
And it just kind of felt flat.
But he's something else.
Yeah, he's like a walking meme at this stage.
I'm gonna have to watch the rest of that
because I only got 20 minutes and like I said,
and I'll link it in the description for people to check out.
What advice would you give to yourself
when you first started doubting
if you could whisper in your self's ear?
Oh, that is a good question
that I had never been asked on a show before.
And I'm amazed that I haven't been.
That is a really good question.
I think I would say that it's okay.
It's okay to explore.
It's not the end of the world.
There is a big, bright, beautiful universe out there
at your fingertips.
And that because truth withstands scrutiny,
dive in.
Dive in and drink deeply of the knowledge
that's at your fingertips.
That's a great response.
So I asked this, I had Michael Jones
on the Deep Drinks a while ago.
And he gave some-
Yeah, I was watching that episode.
Yeah, yeah, it was good.
So he-
I like Michael, he's-
We disagree on a lot of stuff,
but I've hung out with him in person.
I think he's a good guy.
I will always, if someone is a Christian like that I know
and they're not unconvinced of the existence of God
like I am, and they're like, I'm struggling with this,
I'll always point them to Michael Jones' channel
because I think he is, I've always said this,
he's the most honest and apologist can be, I think.
I think, from what I've discovered,
he's content-mucky, he accepts evolution.
He's also a great guy, he's funny.
He's-
I feel bad because I did a synopsis slash review
of the debate that we had,
where, because we had a debate in person
on is Christianity dangerous?
And then one of my editor, Eric Murphy,
of the Skeptic Generation YouTube channel,
formerly he was a show host of Talk Even,
we sat down and we watched through the debate
or parts of the debate.
And basically I got Eric's feedback
and I responded on stuff.
And I feel bad because I don't think
that I gave Michael Jones enough credit
because I don't think that Michael Jones
is a dishonest person.
I don't think that he is trying to deceive people.
And I don't think that he is acting in bad faith.
And he's intelligent and he's smart and he looks at this up.
There were things in the debate where
I think it was a little bit,
a little bit, how do I say this tactfully?
Like, there were elements where he would say things
like some of the benefits of religion
are like increased attendance of like,
I don't wanna misquote it,
but it was almost like one of the benefits of religion
is that people become more religious.
Like it seemed kind of circular
and I didn't catch that until afterwards.
I didn't bring that up in the debate,
but there were elements of it that felt a little bit
like kind of off to me.
And then there were a few things that he said
that Eric pointed out that I hadn't caught
that seemed a little bit sly,
but I don't necessarily think it was intentional
and retrospect.
And he's someone who I would not hesitate to talk with
and engage with and work with in the future.
And I want to see better bridges built.
And I think he's someone who is willing to call out bad acts
within his own circle and his own community.
And he just did a one and a half hour live stream
with Kent Hoven's two ex-wives
and called out Kent Hoven for-
Yeah, I was watching that earlier today.
Yeah.
Yeah, I said thank you for this
because I think it's important to call out domestic abuse
and things like that.
And Kent Hoven responded to it in the comments.
I know, I love it so much.
Oh, he's such a, he's a meme.
He's more of a meme than any,
well, the Bible says, than anyone.
So-
I disagree with Michael on a lot,
but I don't think he's a bad guy.
And I, like he seems like he's very curious
and he's inquisitive.
He's not a young earth creationist.
I don't think he's a radical fundamentalist or anything.
And I feel like in my response video,
I may have burned a bridge by,
like I think my response video made it sound as though
I was assuming his intent in a negative way.
And to some extent, I think I may have done that.
And I like, Michael, if you're seeing this,
then like that, that wasn't my goal,
but I should have been more,
I definitely should have been more charitable.
Yeah.
The thing with Michael is like,
I disagree on many of his conclusions.
He's more educated than I am,
but not that I think that matters for a lot of things
that we're discussing.
However, if there was, you know,
he's probably the top five people that I've spoken to
in real life that I would love to have another beer with
because he's just, we could just go on for days.
Like he's, we just, he doesn't, he doesn't seem,
I can engage with him in a way that I never feel like
he's trying to be dishonest or like, you know.
Anyway, the two, the two questions I asked him just to,
cause we're running out of time here is,
what do you think is the best argument
for the existence of God?
And on the contrary, what do you think is the best argument
against the existence of God?
Which God?
Oh, you just, that's kind of,
let's go with, well, I mean,
are you answering that or are you genuinely asking?
No, no, no, I'm genuinely asking.
Cause like, it's, it's, and the reason that I'm saying,
I'm not saying it is like an aegis gotcha,
like, ooh, well, which one?
Because the reason that I want to make that distinction
is because I feel like all too often when religious people
ask, why don't you believe in God?
What they're asking is,
why don't you believe in the Christian God?
Because it's the one that's most of the English speaking
world thinks of when you say God.
And I think that's a really, really,
really huge difference from any God.
So what if we broadened it to the existence of a creator?
Okay.
So like the God of classical theism.
Yeah, I think that this is going to sound like
a somewhat of a cliche answer,
but I do feel like the fine tuning argument
is one of the better arguments for God,
that now that that creator could be a simulation designer.
It could be a, an alien that's creating a bunch
of different universes as like a fuel source.
And it's just like fine tuning and calibrating their
instruments and they have, and we're super, super tiny
and they're super huge.
I have no idea.
It could be any number of like an unlimited possible
you know, variety of different gods.
I don't necessarily find that option as very convincing.
And the reason that I don't is because it's,
it ultimately comes down to an infinite regress
of what is the origin of, of that God.
And if we know that by, by studying biochemistry
and by studying astrophysics and astronomy
and looking at where stars and the universe
and everything came from,
we're getting a pretty good picture of the puzzle.
There's still a lot of missing pieces,
but you don't have to have every piece to have
a pretty good idea of what the puzzle is a picture of.
And what we're finding is that a lot of this stuff
just happens naturally and we can create a lot of these steps
in the lab or observe them either in outer space
or you know, happening on their own in laboratories.
We see a lot of the early building blocks of life
just forming on their own naturally and then coming together
and coalescing into larger, more complicated objects.
I believe Jack Shostack has done a bunch of work on this
at Harvard University.
There's others.
I have a whole series called the story of life.
Right now I just have three episodes in it,
but it talks about a biogenesis.
And the more that I look at that,
it just makes sense that this stuff came about naturally.
Now, were the original laws of the universe pre-programmed
potentially, are there multiple universes out there?
Well, it kind of is a,
like if you believe that string theory is real,
then that is kind of a,
that the math implies that there would be
more than one universe.
And so it's not just that people are postulating this
to try to get out of the God hypothesis.
It's that the theories that we have to try to best explain
the way that the universe works
do indicate that there could be more than one universe.
And if there's an infinite number of them,
then eventually in one of them,
we're gonna see that the laws of physics
that would allow for life.
And so, and we would only exist in that universe
because we couldn't in the others.
So the question for God is,
if we know that we could come about naturally,
maybe there is a God that created us.
Maybe we aren't the first step,
but you keep tracing it back and something,
like it's gotta come from somewhere,
especially if time is,
if there is some form of time,
even if it's not our time,
even if this God is outside of our space time,
if it's in its own form of space time,
because it has cause and effect,
then somehow this God has to have some origin.
The notion that it is completely eternal
and yet is outside,
like is not affected by cause and effect
and is able to take actions,
but is outside time like it doesn't make sense.
The question is, where does this God originate from?
How did it get there?
And to me, it seems like if you go far enough back in time
to the very beginning of the universe,
you have an incredibly, incredibly simple starting state
where you have the lightest possible elements
in the universe and nothing else.
And then they slowly form into these heavier elements
and stars and you have nuclear fusion
and then you have biochemistry forming us
through apogenesis.
And we can see a bunch of these steps
and we know quite a bit of information.
So my question is like,
if we know that you can get
from this really, really simple stuff to us naturally,
why do you need to posit something else?
And if you do have something else,
where did it come from?
Like, was it the first thing that came from nothing?
Maybe it exists,
but I don't see any evidence of it interacting
or upturning the laws of nature
every miracle that I've seen proposed
has natural explanations as well
or they're unfalsifiable, unprovable anecdotes.
At least the things that I've seen in my life
that have been attributed to the miraculous
have had far better natural explanations.
So that's kind of my reason for pumping the brakes
when it comes to the God argument
and for holding onto a little bit of doubt in that regard.
That's a really thorough answer.
Just because we're right at time here,
I'm gonna skip a couple of questions
and jump straight to the last question
and a bonus question.
Bonus question is just a bit fun.
Last question, what, if anything, would change your mind?
That's a question that I've thought about extensively
and I've had various answers at various times.
I think if, when it comes down to the Christian God,
there's not very much that would change my mind
at this point because I've studied too much about
the ancient Israelite culture and the Canaanites
and the origins of the religion
to where it's so obviously man-made.
It has so many external influences.
It has so much, like, there's so many elements of it
that are, like, it's obviously man-made
in addition to the internal contradictions,
in addition to the mistranslations through history,
that the lack of divine preservation,
the just poor, hodgepodge way that it was put together,
the scientific inaccuracies,
the horrible way that it's been communicated,
that is anything but divine,
and historical inaccuracies and failed prophecies.
There's so many things in it that, like,
I don't think that there's anything at this point
that can change my mind about the Christian God
and most other religions.
In terms of another God,
some other kind of, you know,
if we're living in a simulation or something,
like, I don't know, I'm agnostic on that front.
I feel like if God were all-knowing
and it was an omnipotent, omniscient, you know,
God that sees everything and is everywhere at once,
it would know what it would take to change my mind.
And if it was omnipotent or all-loving,
then it would do what it takes
to make sure that it saves me unless hell is imaginary,
which I think hell is also man-made.
So maybe it doesn't care,
maybe it doesn't matter to the deity, if I believe or not,
and the fact that I am being a sincere, genuine,
skeptic pursuing the truth wherever it leads,
maybe that's the test and I'm passing,
and that a failure of the test would be blind credulity.
I don't know.
But yeah, I think I'm open to having my mind changed.
I'm open to going where the evidence leads.
I don't know exactly what it would take
because I know that our minds can deceive us,
we can have hallucinations, we can have false memories,
we can, you know, think we see something that we didn't.
But I think if there was a way to measure it and test it
and, you know, see maybe through like a prayer study
where only when you pray to one specific God,
you see people like regrow limbs and stuff
that otherwise doesn't happen naturally
and it consistently happens
and then maybe like a deity steps in
and takes credit for it.
And, you know, it defies the laws of physics
and everything that we know about the universe.
I would definitely be open to reconsidering,
but I don't see anything like that.
So as of yet, I remain an atheist
towards almost every single God I've ever heard of,
but agnostic towards the notion of a potential creator.
And just on the side note,
I'm also an atheist to every single God that I've heard of.
And I spent four and a half hours on this channel
reading out the name of every single God in existence.
And holy crap, should I have brought a glass of water
because I had this one little tiny glass
and I was sipping it and by the end,
my throat was screwed for days.
Those are just the ones that you know of.
They're just the ones that were on the Godchecker.com website
and they have all the peer-reviewed sources,
but I'm sure there are millions of gods
that are lost to time.
I believe that there's a common trope
that I think Hitchens put forth
that it's like there's 30,000 gods
or some specific number.
And it's a gross underestimate of the number of gods.
Like there's millions.
Just think about like the door and record in history
what like 6,000 years ago or something,
like roughly like Mesopotamia.
Like humans have been around for a little bit longer
than that, so it's like, you know.
The various indigenous gods of different parts
of Africa, of Haiti, of the various Hindu gods
and South American gods,
like a lot of them haven't even been recorded.
We don't even know the names of them.
You know, even the Canaanite deities,
we'll see these pillar figurines
that we assume are Ashura, but we don't know.
Maybe it's something else.
Australia has the oldest living culture in the world,
which is the Australian Aboriginals.
And they've got like, I was amazed to read out
and mispronounce hundreds of their gods.
By the end of the four hours, by the way,
I was saying the word saint, but I was saying slash
because my brain was so fried.
Anyway, last question, this is a bonus question
and then you can go.
Favorite afterlife.
So I'm gonna, what would be your favorite afterlife?
And as soon as you say, I like this afterlife,
it becomes true, what afterlife would you choose?
So that includes reincarnation,
that includes the typical heaven,
that includes Rick and Morty when he takes off the goggles
and he's in an alien arcade, whatever you want.
Oh, God, literally.
So in terms of like philosophically interesting,
I was gonna answer that way, but then you said,
as soon as I say it, it comes true for me.
Now I'm like a deer in headlights
because I want to have like the perfect afterlife,
but I'll stick with my initial originals.
It's fascinating.
And that's, if you've ever read this short story,
The Egg by Andy Weir.
It's, I believe it's the same author
who wrote The Martian, if you've seen the movie.
Yeah, yeah, it is.
And the basic idea is that reincarnation is real,
but you are every single person who has ever lived.
So you are both Jesus and the people who crucified him.
You're both Hitler and the Jews who he killed.
You are literally everyone.
And so every horrible atrocity that you've inflicted,
you've inflicted on yourself.
But every time that you're reborn, your memory is wiped.
And so over the course of this process,
you are basically like an embryo, you're an egg.
You are a divine deity that is experiencing
all of this stuff, all the horrible things,
and all of the wonderful things.
And you are learning and growing through this process
and realizing by doing these things to yourself,
you are learning what it's like to experience this stuff.
And so then by the time you're born,
you have the maturity of a God
and you are now a part of these deities.
Wow, that's like a plot of Doctor Who.
That is incredible.
That's incredible.
I'm gonna have to read that book, that short story.
That's incredible.
Yeah, it's not very long.
Like you can probably sit down and read it in a sitting.
Yeah, but.
Oh, awesome.
Well, Thomas, I know you have another show to get to.
And thank you so much for coming on Deep Drinks Podcast.
I'm very drunk.
I'm gonna finish the entire thing.
Thank you so much.
You're lovely, though,
because I was doing this on an empty stomach.
Yeah.
I've had two pieces of white bread toast this morning.
It's like nothing.
Like I'm surprised at how composed I am,
but really like.
You're drinking in the morning, too,
because we started this show at, I think,
11 o'clock your time.
I literally had my morning coffee half an hour
before I started drinking this.
Like it was, yeah, it's wild.
But I thank you for taking the time to come on.
It's been an absolute pleasure.
I'll leave all your links in the description.
Oh, I'm already chasing my words.
I'll leave all your links in the description, of course.
I'll leave your descriptions in the link.
I'll put all your stuff in the description.
I recommend everyone check out
Holy Kool-Aid's channel.
I'll leave some playlists that you've mentioned
as well as some other videos that you've mentioned as well
and the conversation that you had with EVs
slash Darth Dawkins, EF slash Darth Dawkins.
Oh, geez, it really has affected me.
But thank you so much for coming on, Thomas.
It's been a fantastic conversation.
And remember, everyone, don't drink the Kool-Aid
unless it's this, because it's delicious.
Thank you, David.
