Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcast. Today my guest is a 22 year old YouTuber who dropped
everything to go cover the Russian invasion and genocide in Ukraine. He's now become a respected
journalist in my eyes anyway and getting incredibly important stories with boots on the ground
journalism. I want to show everyone a quick clip from the kind of stuff that you can see if you
go subscribe to his channel so let's watch that now. When the Russians invaded Ukraine again in
2022 many new regiments were formed to resist the invasion. One of these new regiments that has
exploded into the headlines through harsh combat is the main directorate of intelligence's sabotage
and reconnaissance unit Kraken. Kraken formed as Russian troops and armor advanced on the eastern
Ukrainian city of Harkiv during the first few days of the war. It was made up of many local
football ultras, veterans of the Azov Brigade, recon officers and other veterans from the last
eight years of fighting in the Donbass. They not only succeeded in halting the Russian columns
trying to capture the city but also in pushing them out of it. They then would take part in an
operation that would smash Russia's aura of invincibility for good, proving that the battle
for Kiev was not a fluke and Ukraine could go on the offensive. The Ukrainians, including Kraken,
launched a surprise counter-offensive in Harkiv. The Russian line, stretched thin with many troops
committed elsewhere in the country, broke. The Ukrainian army advanced rapidly, taking advantage
of the break in the Russian line. They quickly liberated over 500 settlements in just over three
weeks, pushing the Russian army almost entirely out of the Harkiv region. While this Ukrainian
victory fell somewhat out of the headlines rather quickly as attention refocused south towards the
Hurshan counter-offensive, its impact cannot be understated. It was so startling to Moscow that
it pushed Putin's regime to enact mobilization. I wanted to get a better understanding of both
Kraken and this pivotal moment in the war that shook the Russians. So I went to the eastern
Ukrainian city of Harkiv to talk to a Kraken commander named Rostislav, who fought and commanded
soldiers on the front line of the Harkiv counter-offensive first hand, helping to recapture many
villages and even the city and the logistical center of Kubejansk.
Usually, I'm not a really high shelf guy. I like Tennessee hunting, you know. I need that amber
current. What was it? Who's saying that? Amber current change soothed my mind. I forgot who's
saying that. Great country music star. But I picked up whatever said American on it because I missed
home and I just wanted to get whatever thing they put stars and stripes on. Had a boldy Google
and I don't care how cheap. And so I got this. It says authentic American, which indicates to me
it isn't authentic, but anything state it's authentic gives me that. But Owensboro, Kentucky,
bourbon whiskey, extra smooth. And then it says bourbon is America's native spirit as declared
by act of Congress in 1964. That is that's beautiful. That sounds like some some premium
with you. I've actually got a bottle of one of my favorite scotches, Lafruig 10 year. I'm a bit
more of a snob. I guess that comes with age. Actually, I'll drink any whiskey, but I do prefer
the finer things, the finer whiskies. But I've got that today. You know, it's 11am for me. I'm
happy to drink with you at this time. It's acceptable to day drink in Australia. For your
guests, for the people on your Twitch stream who don't know me, my name is David McDonald. I'm a
former Christian youth pastor. I now run a YouTube channel where I talk to people
about religion, philosophy and human rights over a drink of their choice.
But Dylan, I've got so much respect for you and what you've done moving over to Ukraine to
cover the invasion. Anastasia put us in touch, which I'm really thankful for. And I believe,
did you get Anna on Destiny's channel? Are you the one who set that up? So I didn't I didn't
specifically take her and put her on his channel, but I interviewed her a few times. In fact,
I just interviewed her again with three other Ukrainians about a certain streamer. I'm very
excited for that to get out. But that's all. I can't talk too much about that. But when I interviewed
her, one of during one of the interviews, she started talking about Hassan and how his commentary
she was not very happy with. And I posted it on my channel because if there's anything I'd like
to do is platform Ukrainians and online conversations where they're usually not represented, even though
the future of their country is what's being discussed. And while I didn't get a positive
response from Hassan, I got kicked banned from his discord that I never posted in. And they didn't
get a positive response from that direction. Destiny watched it and then that put Anna in
contact with Destiny. And then she did a ton of fundraising in Destiny's community when it comes
to ear protection and like warm clothing for soldiers and different stuff they need to get
the job done. So yeah, that's how they initially met was through that interview. Yeah. I like Anna
was one of the best interviews we did on this channel, I think. We had they had air raids
happening and she had to like run for cover in the interview. I don't know if you ever saw that clip,
but it really brought home the gravity of the situation. My first question, I guess, is what
do you think that I mean, it's a broad question, but what do you think the media is getting wrong?
Oh, God, the media is getting so many things wrong here. The first thing I think the media
difference between like boots on the ground versus what do you think is being portrayed,
I guess, is a better question. Man, okay, I like the media. What does the media get wrong
question better? Can I answer that one? Yeah, yeah, go for it. Go for it. One thing that the
media gets wrong, and I've been talking about this a lot recently, and I was already talking
about it on stream today, is how it defines peace. Because I feel like Americans and anyone who hasn't
been to a war zone before, and this would even include, I would say, a majority of the soldiers
on the planet who's never actually had to fire a gun. Thank goodness that they I mean, they've
had to fire guns for practice, but never at actually people. For most, for most people,
that's, that's not an idea that would really touch their mind. Maybe it does for soldiers,
but even if they have to think about it when they sign up, most of them will never have to kill
anybody, most of them will probably never actually be shot at, maybe 5% to 10% of American soldiers
will ever actually have that experience. So peace, when you talk about peace to them, the idea of
American cities being bombed, or car bombings happening frequently, or the type of terror that
Ukrainians facing on a daily basis, it's very hard for them to relate to it because America is so
safe. And the idea of it sounds silly. Red Dawn was a joke movie, and it was fun to watch, and you
get to scream Wolverines, because we all know that would never happen. They had to create an
alternative universe for that to happen, because America so geographically protected and so
militarily powerful. And so I think for a lot of Americans, it's hard for them to know the
difference between war and peace and the nuances between it. And so how that dialogue has settled
in a way around the media that they don't like, is that there's two states between war and peace.
There's a ceasefire, which is the peace. And then there's the active fighting between like
advancing armies, which is the war. But that's not the only two statuses. For example, Ireland and
the United Kingdom were not at war during the times of troubles. But would you say that the
times of troubles was a peaceful period? Would you call that peace? Five days ago, Israel and
Palestine were not an open war. But would you say that was a peaceful situation when there were
still bombings on the border? There were still bombings in Gaza, people getting suffocated in
their homes. There were rocket attacks from Palestinian Islamic jihad in Hamas, Hezbollah,
constant threats of invasion and pushing people into the sea. Would you call that peace?
And so when people talk about peace, and when it comes to the war in Ukraine, I think a lot of
times they just want to be able to declare, huh, ceasefire, I feel so much better about this. And
then they get to move on to whatever the next big thing is going to be. And so I think when people
talk about peace, we have to have a more nuanced conversation. Because number one, the peace that
we could get could be still violent in the way that the times of troubles are. There could be
car bombings in occupied territory, assassinations of occupation officials, horrible amounts of
repression, mass graves filled, torture chambers, extra-judicial killings, which have been recorded
time and time and time and time again. And there's a decent chance that a ceasefire could be violated,
like the ceasefires before, were constantly violated when with civilians getting bombed and
civilians getting killed by mines and other horrific things that happened during the last
eight years that was not covered by the media, which is something that I also think the media
got wrong, was the entirety of the last nine years of Ukraine coverage. And not only not covering
this boiling situation, this hot spot that could have really exploded at any time when the Russians
choose, but they just completely, they've just completely missed how we describe peace and how
we describe war. Because it's not as simple as people has made it out. You have a ceasefire,
and then all the love and all the, like this, the spirit of Tarasovchenko is going to pacify
the people or something. That's not how it's going to work. Also, if we have a peace deal now,
does that mean that there might be not another war in five years? Because people could call the
Minsk Accords peace, if you want to, under the definition of peace, like the aesthetic definition
of peace, but it didn't bring peace. They tried the Minsk Accords twice and it didn't create peace.
So I feel like we need to show the differences between actual peace, which I think involves
liberation and involves not a perpetual and aggressive and brutal occupation,
but also properly define war, properly define what a real peace would look like, what a good
peace would look like, and talk about what would be in the middle and the reality of what that
type of occupation would be like. So can you give us a bird's eye? This is another huge question,
a bird's eye view for my audience who may not be up to date with everything. Can you give us a
bird's eye view of what's actually happened with the invasion? Why did Russia invade? Didn't Russia
like promise not to invade Ukraine after they gave up their nuclear weapons? What is the official
statement and what do you think is actually happening?
The reasons for the invasion, they shift around a lot. The Russians have a strategy of just throwing
whatever they can at the wall and whatever sticks sticks and whatever doesn't doesn't.
We all remember them talking about biological weapons and I would have thought that there would
be more critique from the Western press about hearing another leader claiming weapons of mass
destruction without solid evidence before invading another country. I thought the the press would
learn its lesson but it didn't get as I think enough coverage, that type of lie or talking about
that. There is a lot of claims like that but I'll stick to the main ones that they said at the start
and the main ones that the Russians put forward was number one that they needed to liberate the
Russians in Ukraine. They needed to liberate the ethnic Russians, sometimes they'll say Russian
speakers but usually they'll say ethnic Russians. They needed to defeat Nazism. They needed to
demilitarize Ukraine. They needed to stop NATO expansion and I think those were basically the
main four. There's one I'm forgetting but those were the main four. Oh and they wanted to also
take territory in the Donbass, liberate the Donbass. That was something they also pushed.
Oh and also one last thing because they did demand this in negotiations. They also wanted
Crimea recognized. So those are those are the official statements as to as to why they're fighting
the war. I don't buy the official statements though. It's hard for me to imagine that they care about
the liberating of the ethnic Russians or protecting them from the shelling which was something they
often talked about, the people who died their in the Donbass over the last eight years of fighting.
It's hard for me to take that seriously when you've increased the amount of people who are
dying by such a tremendous proportion and the vast majority of those people that are dying
are people in Eastern Ukraine who speak Russian. The amount of people who died I think in 2021
before the Russians invaded in 2022 was about I think between seven and 12. Now that's not
nothing. That's still a tragedy. Those deaths are still horrible. But now we're talking about a
scale of hundreds of like over 100,000 deaths. We're talking about a totally different proportion
of people displaced, people tortured, people bombed and their homes destroyed. So if the
goal of the invasion was to limit the violence for people who speak Russian, it has been a
complete failure. And so any claim that that's what they're fighting for now I think is complete
hogwash. The denazification stuff ever since 2014 I think was nonsense. The articles covering
Nazism in Ukraine, you can see it directly spike in the search algorithm and the amount of mentions
in media in 2014 and forward. Vladimir Putin in 2008 was talking about there's no ethnic issue
in Ukraine after he invaded Georgia and wanted to take pressure off of himself. So unless there was
the fastest rise of fascism in human history between 2008 and 2014 and Nazism just completely
exploded in the country's level, never seen before. And we didn't see also in its parliament
because it just did not expand like legislatively introducing like Nazi laws. It did not get a
bunch of Nazi politicians into the Rada. Like the Svoboda party, for example, I think currently
holds one seat in the Ukrainian Rada. I never took that very seriously. The main reason I never
took it seriously though is because the Russians also arm Nazis. Rusich, for example, which is a
neo-Nazi militia that they've been arming for years and having fight in the Donbass and have been
accusing, have committed a ton of atrocities, committed atrocities and admit to it openly.
One of their fighters, one of the commanders actually was recently arrested I believe in
Finland because he went over there to visit his girlfriend and thank goodness they nabbed him.
And he was somebody who was taking photos with corpses and desecrating the dead.
So I never nabbed Nazism stuff very seriously. The stuff that I think gets the most credibility
is the NATO expansion argument. But again, I could see that as a more credible argument than the
neo-Nazification or the liberating the Russian speakers because NATO has expanded whereas in
the idea that there is a genocide going on against the Russian speakers and that they
need to send neo-Nazis to fight our neo-Nazis, right? Like that's filling our fate. Everybody can go and
see that NATO has expanded. The thing that makes me not believe that this war was prompted by that
though is that Ukraine was no closer to joining NATO today or at the, well, actually not today.
Today they're closer to joining NATO forever. But at the start of the invasion, they were no closer
to joining NATO than they were in 2015. NATO put into place rules specifically for this scenario
saying that as long as you have territorial disputes that are active, like what's happening in
Crimea, like the dispute between Russia and Ukraine in Crimea, when Russia illegally invaded
Crimea and annexed it, and then all these people fled all the Ukrainians who didn't want to get
purged or put in torture chambers, fled Crimea, like people I've interviewed myself, that as long
as that situation continues, they can't join NATO. And the French, the Germans, and other European
states were open that they were not going to allow Ukraine into NATO because they didn't want to
provoke the Russians. And that was the affairs for the last eight years. Nothing changed. So if the
problem was NATO expansion, where was NATO? Where was NATO banging down the door coming into Ukraine
to join? What NATO provided Ukrainians when talking to the Russians, and this is not talked about
enough, is it provided them leverage and allowed them to look at the Russians and say, you can't
give us a raw deal because we have other options. You can't completely bend us over a barrel and
take our lithium, take our oil, take our resources, pile us on with debt so you own our country,
and we have to possibly one day allow all of our resources to be transported for free
into your country. All of these issues, it's harder for the Russians to pressure them on if
they have another person they can go to and get a better deal. And that's why Russians in 2014
economically coerced Ukraine during the Euromaidan protests in order to try to get them to join
their economic arrangements, their defensive alliances, instead of joining the European Union,
because they were scared of them having that economic leverage of being able to push back
against them, not only with pointing to NATO and saying we can always go to them,
or pointing to the EU and saying we have other economic options, they didn't like that type
of pushback, they didn't like that type of counter. And that perspective of the Ukrainians,
being able to have more options and not just being subservient to the Russians,
that perspective isn't often shown. It's usually shown through dirty, evil NATO,
expands into Ukraine at gunpoint to like gobble up the nation state to like circle Russia.
Very little is talked about from the Ukrainian perspective of what NATO can provide them,
or how NATO gave them leverage and negotiations, which I think is perfectly fair for them to
be able to turn to the Russians who have historically dominated their state and say,
we have other options, and we can go to other options. And that's what NATO provided. But
even if NATO provided them that option, NATO was making it very clear, multiple NATO member
states are making clear, and you need to get every single one to agree that they weren't going to
join, at least not in the immediate future. I mean, I can understand somebody believing maybe
France can be convinced, but Erdogan, Viktor Orban was going to be convinced to let in the
Ukrainians. Viktor Orban isn't even convinced to let in the Ukrainians now after the Russian
invasion. Why would he be convinced before the Russians invaded? So all the official claims,
I think the one about NATO expansion at least makes some more strategic sense,
but I still don't think it has much credibility. So I think it's just, again, throwing whatever
you can at the wall. It's easy as a slob to hate Nazis, paint your enemy as Nazis,
and then whatever you do to them, it's whatever, because they're Nazis.
What I don't understand about the whole Nazi argument, I've watched you and Destiny and other
people debate, people who say they're Nazis are Nazis. That's the main moral stance they kind of
stand on. But what I don't understand is that there are lots of Nazi, I mean, obviously,
there's no Nazi party or like a ruling force of Nazis who are putting people in concentration
camps in Ukraine, but they're talking about the people. The people are Nazis or white supremacists
or have that ideology. But in what world? Let's just say, okay, let's grant that. I know that's
not the case. Anna's talked about it. I know that they're not Nazis in Ukraine, at least,
definitely not to the proportion. There are Nazis in Ukraine. There's also
Nazis in Russia. There's also Nazis in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania. There's Nazis in the States.
There's Nazis in Australia. But what I don't understand is how do you go from, let's say that
there's a large majority of Nazis in Ukraine? There isn't. But let's say there is, right? How do
you go from that, okay, large majority of Nazis, to therefore, let's murder, genocide, torture
civilians? How do you go from like, like, I want to ask these people, I don't know why people don't
don't like people when they're debating these, these people, why don't they, they say like,
therefore, what it's okay to like, genocide groups of people, it's okay to like, even like, even
like, to murder children, to murder, to like, this, this shit that you, you uncovered in your Zoom,
like, is that okay? Like, it's still, it still doesn't make, it's, it, it still doesn't work.
Like, the, the argument still doesn't work. I, when I talk to people about this, I, I like to ask
a question, and usually this question produces a lot of offense. But my question is, why don't you
like Nazis? And it produces offense because everybody hates Nazis, right? But I, I, I don't
know, list the reasons why Nazis are bad. And people will talk about like,
genocide, you know, the, you know, the killings, the murders, the genocides,
naming different war crimes. I'm saying, so the Russians need to go into Ukraine to kill, murder,
rape, pillage, deport the locals, take their property, and then enforce your own culture
in the region. So you can gather resources to fight Nazi militarism, to fight the militaristic
ultra national, ultra national Nazis, and you're going to use literal neo-Nazi militias to do it
as well. It's just, it's complete bogus. The reasons why people hate Nazis should be many
of the same reasons why people also hate the Russian army. That's, that's, that's exactly
my, my thoughts as well. So I just, I don't understand how, how someone, it seems very
much like a, just us versus them, like a, like a, like paint the enemy as a bad, like it just
seems so simple, like so simply a propaganda to just go, you know, the Nazis are therefore,
we can, you know, do what, do what, but, but it's infuriating because it's like, it's not true as
well. But also, let's, let's say for a moment, right, for a moment that, because there is truth
to the idea that ultra nationalist football ultras, after the failure of the Ukrainian
government to respond to the Russians flooding the east of the country with weapons. And there
were recent interviews from, now that the Russians invaded, they've foregone any, any attempt to
pretend that they were not involved in 2014, 2015, which they were, have been lying about for years.
And I saw this interview was so fascinating to me on Omegle between a Russian journalist and a
Russian train driver that carried in the artillery shells, the bullets, the artillery guns and the
tanks in 2014, 2015, talking about how they would go in the nighttime because the Ukrainians might
target them during the daytime and they don't want to be seen. So in nighttime, they would pile in
tanks and tanks and they just flood them across the border into Luhansk, into occupied Luhansk
and occupied Donetsk to arm the rebels and to arm the PMCs and the volunteers that Russia was able
to gather to intervene in the east of the country. That type of stuff has been going on for eight,
nine years, even though the Russians were denying it and lying about it the whole time.
I forgot what the, what the original question was or the original point was. Could you remind me?
It's the whiskey. No, it's fine. I think I just needed a ramble. I was just talking about how
I've forgotten as well because I've just started thinking about 2014. 2014 was the,
was when they shot. Oh, the Ultras. It was the Russians. At that time, the government failed
to deal with it. There was like 16,000 soldiers in the whole army that knew what they were,
like really knew what they were doing and were effective. The majority of the army
had no clue what they were doing. They didn't know how to deal with the situation. Horribly corrupt
years of inaction and corruption and nepotism and what Ukrainians will call
Soviet mentality led to a lack of innovation and a lack of preparation and a lack of preparation
for this type of scenario. Not to mention there was a huge problem with the Russian military
culture and being awash with collaborators and stuff like that and people who are paid specifically
to inform the Russians, like paid informants. And so what happened was a lot of the same groups
that were involved in Euromaidan, that's where right sector originally formed,
started making militias to go out east and participate in the ATO, the anti-terrorism
operation. And since the rest of the military seemed to be incompetent in dealing with the
situation, many Ukrainians took it upon themselves to go out and fight. And that's where groups like
Azov and right sector originally cut their teeth and came into formation. And those groups did have
a high amount of people from football, football, ultra community, which has a problem with right
wing extremism. Sometimes that will be just like just ultra nationalist right wing extremism. Sometimes
it could even go further into neo-Nazism or white supremacy as well. And when you get into a lot
of the weird like Blitzky statements about like the white race, you're going to get a lot closer
to that. But that was never the vast majority of the Ukrainian armed forces. And that same culture
also exists in the Russian armed forces. And even if that did exist in Ukraine,
is that how the world works now? That we find out that one nation has a militia
that has disgusting views. And now we all invade that country and sort of bombing it to all hell
to do what? To motivate more people to go join those militias? That's all that's going to do.
Just going to radicalize people to be like, yeah, I do like those groups.
And it's not even talking about how those groups have changed over the last eight years,
the banning of being members of political parties while fighting in these organizations,
the banning of both Nazi and communist symbols by the government. But just on a basic level,
even if like, like half of what they said about like Nazism in the Ukrainian military was true,
that still wouldn't give them a right to invade the country as they were, as they were.
Unless we find out that that's being used to commit something like a genocide,
which it wasn't, but that was the Russian claim that they made without evidence.
So, okay, let's pump the brakes for a second. And let's tell the audience who you are. So you
were a Twitch streamer, you were doing like hippie-dippy podcast, which I saw a couple of.
I know that you talked a lot about trans rights, I think, and LGBT rights, is that correct?
I was on the board of Free State for a bit. It's the largest LGBTQ plus activist organization in
the state of Maryland. I'm not activist, but there's a board organization in the state of Maryland
around LGBT issues. Trans issues, I talked a little bit less about because I just don't know all
a lot of the medical information and I don't know all the nuance of it. And I try not to talk
about issues too much if I don't know a lot about it. But I was active on LGBT issues,
that's for sure. And I did host the hippie-dippy round table, which was, for a time, the largest
political round table on Twitch. Yeah, it was, I remember, was it you that was like,
when I talk, everyone all shuts up and you're like, that's my only rule? Is that you? I can't
remember. It's been years since I've... I don't know if that was my rule, but it sounds like
probably I might have said at some point. That's great. So Dee asked a question and it kind of
goes into what we're talking about. She asked a super chat. So thank you, Dee, for the five-dollar
super chat. What are Dylan's plans for the future? Journalism or politics? And that kind of gets into,
I guess, answer that question. But I also want to know why you decided to go over to Ukraine,
stop the hippie-dippy, and I guess just go like, I want to do something important with my life.
And like, do you have Ukrainian heritage or is it like, why did you decide Ukraine?
As for my interest in politics right now, I still have an interest in national politics,
but I was mainly interested in local politics in my area, where I was trying to concentrate on it,
because I believe you have to have a good understanding of local politics before you can
truly have a real understanding of national politics. Because once you interact with those
bureaucratic structures and you see how the sausage is made, and you have conversations
with legislators about how the mechanisms work, I think you derive a better understanding. And
you have a realm where you can build experience before going on the national level. I think that
before you go and play with the NFL, maybe you should play with one of the smaller teams,
maybe in high school. It just makes sense, in my opinion. But my interest in local politics has
really been shot after the local political scandal where somebody I worked for, and I felt horribly
portrayed by this. The mayor of my city became mayor at the age of 14, when I was 14. That's
when I met him. And I remember he was one of the first people I came out to as a member of the
LGBT community, because he was our city's first gay mayor. And I was in favor of certain policies
he liked, like more scooters in the state, like electric scooters that people can pay. And I was
like, oh, that's great. I like transit. I was in favor of more bike lanes and policies like that.
And so I got behind him and supported his campaign and Canvas Forum while I was 16.
And because he came to my house to talk to me, and I trusted him in this way.
And last year, he got outed as a pedophile who had, I think, over, it was like 37 counts of
possession of child pornography on his computer. And it just completely smashed
all of my soul when it comes to working in local politics. Because this was somebody I
trusted as a minor who came out to him, which also makes me feel really weird about why he
allowed me to Canvas or why he had me so deeply involved in some of his campaigning.
It makes me feel betrayed that he would do this to our city, to our community,
and to anyone. And I just, I felt crushed. I felt backstabbed. And I don't really have any
interest in local politics at the moment. Hopefully, in the future, I can regain that trust
in participating in local politics. And I can get back into it because I do think it's important.
But my work is solely focused on what I'm doing right now. And that is
war journalism. Because I just, it was, I, you know, I just don't feel like trusting anybody
like that again right now, because that was a really big betrayal for me.
Yeah, that makes, that makes total sense. So is the future to, I guess, keep focusing on journalism
to keep bringing attention to the Ukrainian invasion, things like that, or the Russian
invasion of Ukraine. I don't like to call it a war. I mean, maybe it's on me tickle here,
but like, I want, I want people to understand that it's, it's not like there are, there's no
two sides in this conversation. The Russians need to be known as like causing, you know,
doing what they're doing, not just like. The reason I ended up doing this, and I,
and it can be very jolting when you see the shift from like hosting panel debates to,
you know, being embedded with frontline soldiers on the largest war in Europe and
since World War II, like that's obviously a pretty ginormous shift. But I always had an
interest in foreign affairs. I used to follow the civil war in Syria when I was in high school.
I would use open source Intel, a lot of the maps like a lot of the open source map stuff,
like, you know, they have deep state and a few of the other places we can go look at all the
troop movements. I would do that, but for the anti ISIS operations of the SDF and watch as they
slowly call closing into Raqqa and then winning and liberated from ISIS. And I built an interest
in foreign policy that eventually led to me working on two campaigns where I advise to small
level congressional candidates on foreign policy, which I knew the odds of them women were low,
but I wanted to bear some experience from it. And all they, they heard that I studied international
relations at UMD for like one very quick semester. And that was all it took for me to get on. And so
I took the opportunity took the advantage and I built up as much knowledge as I could. So I don't
have like a gigantic foreign policy formal training. I have taken like some classes and I have
experience working on campaigns, but I always had that passion. I just took, I would say a
generally alternative route to get where I'm at. And then when the Russian invasion of Ukraine happened,
I was following it for a month from my chair, doing map, doing going on the map, showing all the
movements of the positions. And I made a decent chuck of change. It wasn't like hundreds of
thousands of dollars or anything. But I think it was significant. It was a little bit more than
$10,000. And I looked at this money, and I was like, this is a lot of money to make covering this
war. I'd feel really bad if what I just did was like, Oh, hey, guys, look at this truck blowing
up. Thank you for the $100. Okay, look at this truck blowing up. Look at these people dying.
Thank you for the 50 bucks. I appreciate it. That felt kind of bad to me. I felt that if
people trusted my coverage, that I should reinvest in my coverage and make it better.
And I believe that the struggle for self determination amongst Ukrainians and the
struggle for liberation was worth documenting enough to put myself in harm's way. So I called
a few of my friends like Michael Hillard from Red Line, who has some history with
journalism in this field. I got in contact with a friend of mine called Patrick Hillsman,
who was doing journalism in Ukraine, had just arrived in Ukraine, had history of doing war
journalism in Syria. I asked her advice. I learned from them. I tried to learn from people who had
more experience with me. And originally, I was just going to go to Poland and interview refugees.
But as the day approached sooner, as I was actually going to head over there,
I warmed up more to the idea of entering Western Ukraine and interviewing people who
were displaced internally. But the more I got into the conflict, the more I studied the conflict,
the further and further I went. And before you know it, my family went from hearing, oh, I'm
just going to be in Warsaw too. I'm one mile from the Russians here in Zebroza, which was,
it took time for that shift to happen, but it did happen relatively fast. I think what ultimately
pushed me to go through with it was, number one, I got really interested, more interested than it
was before, because I always thought about just doing journalism, but I was always more interested
in commentary, because commentary was easier. It's easier to look at the news story, read it
out loud, read out somebody else's report, and then be like, yeah, here's my opinion about this
article I just read and don't have any expertise in. It's easy. A lot of Twitch viewers do that.
That's literally Hassan's whole thing, right? And he's like the biggest political streamer.
Like someone said on, this is what made me reconnect with you and wanting to reconnect with
you is someone said, I don't think it was on destiny stream that it was like ridiculous that Hassan
wins streamer for politics every year and you're over here doing like the shit and you're not
getting recognized for it. I think you should be, you know, winning the stream or whatever. I don't
know. I don't know what the award is, but like, yeah, you're doing like, you're actually doing the
work. Like you don't have the numbers that he has, but it's what you're doing. It's actually
important. I mean, I don't know. I think he's a better streamer than me. I think when it comes
to streaming, he streams more like 12 hours a day. He collaborates much more than I do.
He has a better setup than I do. He can bring on much more interesting guests like Congress
people like AOC than I can. I just believe that the substance of what he has to say about the war
is much less devoid of context, much less devoid of useful information. And a lot of times,
based on misinformation, like when he said that right sector snipers killed 100 people in Maidan,
that was just complete this information that he must have just picked up either on some
threat in social media or through somebody whispering in his ear, him calling the targeting
of the Kirchbridge at war crime. Like these are all things like I can make substantive
critiques of, but as a streamer, he's better than me. He streams more. When it comes to
not gaming the algorithm, but producing content that's better for this platform,
he can do it better. He can play video games better than me and multitask, where it's very
hard for me to concentrate on two things at the same time. I just believe the substance of his
streams, especially when it comes to foreign policy, can be quite lacking at times. But that's
what I think is really important because if something's entertaining, but then misinforms you,
then all you really got was a laugh. If John Oliver's fragments were all like one out of every
three was like a bad take while covering a very important war, the largest war in Europe in World
War II, you're getting a laugh out of it. But I think also there needs to be more effort done
for him to do research before he makes bold statements like this is a war crime when it is
very much not a war crime. He hasn't proven it's a war crime and no international law scholar would
agree with him on, but when it comes to being a streamer, he's much better than me.
Yeah, I just think, well, maybe, I guess so. I mean, like, yeah, he's entertaining and everything
like that, but I just feel like- I can't do the 12 hour stuff. I mean, I can't. The problem is when
I do the 12 hour stuff, once you get to seven to eighth hour, I'm just like, you know, what's this
on Twitter? I don't want to do that. Maybe there's a good point in what you're saying, and maybe,
yeah, maybe Hassan should win the awards for best streaming, but I guess I think what I'm saying is
what the person getting across is like, you're doing like some shit that YouTubers don't do,
right? Like, okay, can you explain the story? So you've gone from, I've covered the war because I
care about what's going on, to I'm going to go interview people, to I'm going to actually go
into Ukraine, to like, there was an occasion where you had to dive onto the table on stream because
it was happening over the head of your building. It was a rocket attack. A rocket passed a few
hundred feet over, not a few hundred feet, probably like 50 to 100 feet over a house,
while it was heading towards Kiev. Yeah, crazy. And another thing that, can you tell the story
about like, you've gone on demining activities where you literally help the Ukrainians demine,
but something that you, that I don't know if this was a demining, but can you tell the story about
when you, you know, there was the drone, the Russian drone following you guys? Sure. Well,
you've asked me a few questions, but the first thing I would say is I didn't help them do any
demining. I want to clarify that. I filmed their demining process. I tried to record interviews
and I want to do more. I live with them for about a year, not a year. I live with them for about a
month. That means I went, I, when they went out and demined, I tried to film them demining. I drank
with them. I ate with them. I slept with them as in we slept in the same places. Okay, let me be
clear. I slept in the same place they did. And I tried to get, I wanted to get a more
in-depth understanding of the type of work they do because there's not much material on the
people, their lives, who they, who they are, and the dangers that they face in the English
language when it comes to demining in Ukraine. And this is at the same time that we're giving
cluster munitions to a country that has a higher dud rate than 1%, which was our limit before,
when it comes to transferring cluster munitions and the amount of duds that they have in them.
So if we're going to be transferring these munitions, I think we should have a genuine
understanding of who's going to be disarming those bombs and what tools they need and how long it's
going to be an issue because this is going to be an issue for 80 to 100 years from the estimates
that they were giving me. Ukraine is, according to environmental minister, the most mined country
in the world with one third of the country, it's a very large country covered in mines.
And so that, that's, that's why I wanted to do the documentary with them. I wanted it to be in
depth and I'm not done. I want to go back and film more with them before I leave the country in
November for a few months. But what motivated me to come out here, I guess there's a few reasons as
to why I do this. And it was, it was kind of hard to fully process it because it was still, it was
a very big change in my life. But there's a few things that motivate me. When it comes to journalism,
I'm motivated by making sure that the first draft of history, which is journalism is of quality.
If something isn't recorded and documented in 100 years, it'll be like it never happened to
historians. When I think about all the different wars that happened, whether it be Vietnam,
the current struggle in Myanmar, which there's so many atrocities that are going undocumented in
Myanmar, these just size and scale of World War II and the amount of atrocities that went on,
so much stuff there was not pictures of, there was not videos of, there was no documentation of.
Now, today we live in the age where everybody's got a camera on their phone. You can attach a
camera to your chest and run around while getting shot out like a GoPro. You've got like little,
little planes, you can fly around drones, the record stuff from the skies. There's so many tools
at a journalist disposal and at the disposal of the Ukrainian people to document this. And I want
to make sure that those tools are utilized in a small capacity through me being here to document
what's going on. And that's what I tried to do in here. So when we documented the Russians
targeting aid workers with Shelling, it injured a good friend of mine, John Jones.
Russian Troutin landed his upper thigh in his lower stomach. His pelvis ended up saving him
while they were trying to rescue animals that were drowning in the water and try to look for
those who were possibly still trapped, if any, were on day three and four. And documenting other
war crimes and other things that happened in the war and just documenting the experiences
of those who were fighting because I want to, I would love to create something where I'm dead
and gone a hundred years from now. If a Ukrainian wanted to study their history or an American wanted
to study their history, they could look up on my channel and listen to the people who fought the
war themselves, explain why they did it and how they did it with these memories fresh in their
minds. Because I see so many people chasing Holocaust survivors, chasing World War II veterans,
80 to 90 years after the fact. And these World War II veterans, Holocaust survivors,
they would never want to, I think in the vast majority of instances, want to spread misinformation
about what occurred because I think most of them want to contribute to history.
But when you're not, it's like 80 years after the fact, you're going to lose a few things,
you're going to forget things. And those things they forget are just going to be lost to the sands
of time. And so I think getting them right after they've had their experiences so we can capture
them as fresh as they are and as unfiltered as we can get it, that's something that I'm deeply
interested in, journalistically. From an ideological point of view, I believe that Ukraine's
self-determination is extremely important. I believe that if Ukraine doesn't win,
it faces the risk of its democracy retracting because people will say, look, we tried the
liberalism, we tried democracy, we tried this different way of modeling our country,
and it failed. The Russians failed us, the liberal West failed us, maybe we should go another way.
And I have a fear that that other way will not be positive. And so I want democracies to succeed
because I believe Ukrainians deserve representation, but also because the other options are not good
options. And for democracy to succeed, I think part of building upon that success is showing
the success of Ukrainian democracy through its liberating its own territory. There will be no
more of a better testament to the strength of Ukrainian democracy and of democracy in Ukraine
than it achieves what so many other groups couldn't. The OU, the OUN, the Organization
for Ukrainian Nationalists, what so many different activities, the Ukrainian Social,
it's not Social Democratic Republic, but the Socialist Republic they had after World War I
for a brief period, or the German coup government that was installed right after in the Ukrainian
state. What so many different activists and governments have failed to do to preserve and
protect Ukrainian sovereignty, if democracy can do that, that'd be a huge notch in the
belt of the democratic order and of the democratic system in Ukraine. And I think that'd be fantastic.
I think it'd be good for Ukrainians and I think it'd be good for democracy worldwide. I also
believe that if the Russians do capture land and they do win concessions,
that there's a decent chance that they're not going to stop here. Just like they didn't stop
after the first invasion of Chechnya and they tried again and broke that ceasefire,
just like what they did in Georgia and just like what they've done in Ukraine again and again and
again lying about it every single time and people carrying their water every single time
because they didn't want to face the reality that was in their face. They don't want to face the
plank in their face. They wanted to look at the toothpick half a mile away, looking for hope,
looking for compromise, that the Russians seemingly were not willing to take.
It's a biblical reference there. I like that. Do you throw that in specifically or is it just
in your sake, the biblical reference? The biblical reference? No. I like same things like that.
This is a huge problem for my translators in this country because I'll be like,
isn't it a problem that these oligarchs are kind of like the tail wagging the dog here at
anti-corruption efforts and the main translator will be like, what the fuck did you just say?
What do you translate that? They won't understand a single word of that.
Half the shit that I say, I did an interview on MythVision. It's got like 100,000 views,
which is really the most I've ever had on any video. It's on his channel, but with me in the
video. Half the shit I'm saying, like I said, I'll say things like Australians saying, I went to
the servo, I went to the bottle-o, the service station to get fuel, which is gas in U.S. or
bottle-o. Smoco? What is it called? Smoco. Yes, Smoco. It had Smoco.
Truck to Yui, which is like doing a U-turn in a motor vehicle. It's just shit like,
just like that. No, I said push-bike, which is a bicycle. But yeah, it's, I feel you,
I know what you mean. Just quickly, what happened with the drone?
Oh, in Zaperoja. So that was my first time I went to the front line. It was my first, it was,
it was my first time really out in the field. And we were embedded with local territorial defense.
We didn't even know if we were going to get the embed where we were heading towards Zaperoja.
That was in May of 2022, I think, or late May or the next month or early in the next month.
And we were just going out there to see the conditions on the front line,
to talk to soldiers about their experiences and document some training. But in order to do that,
we had to go to the Ford operating position, which was about a mile from the Russians.
And we got into a van, we armored up. I had this experience where I had a reflective
press badge, and I was told to take it off. And I was like, you know, I want, obviously,
I want to keep the press badge and identifies me as press is, you know, important for,
you know, journalists are supposed to do that. And they said, it's reflective.
They'll see the press, they'll see the little shine, it'll be a giant bull's eye, take it off.
And that was probably the most in my face, like first moment where somebody really grabbed me
by the neck and said, this is the danger you face. I took it off. We got in the van,
we headed out to the Ford operating position, we're just passing through these tunnels of trees,
where there'll be like a tree line here, a tree line here, and you're heading towards the position.
But everything between those tree lines, everything else is just open fields.
And randomly, those tree lines will break, and then you can just see out in the open fields.
And as I was going to this Ford operating positions, as we're getting closer and closer,
I could see, hear the, the Ukrainian soldiers that were kind of cheery and talking and like
having four, I could hear them slowly talking less and less and less and less. And I'll,
and I didn't know if it felt safer in the tree line or outside of the tree line.
Because when you're in the tree line, you can't see anything.
You can't see anything out there. You can't see anything out there.
So if there's a plane or a drone or something coming from that direction or some ambush or
something, you just can't see it. But when you're out in the open fields,
like everything can see you. And everybody's seen the footage of war in Ukraine. And 90%
of it is random Scooby-Doo van drives down road and blows up. That's 90% of it. And the,
and what was I in? I was in a soccer mom van, maybe not Scooby-Doo van, but still not that
protective. Any shrapnel would tear up the shreds and kill us instantly. There was no protection.
And as we were going to the Ford operating position, they get a call on the radio like,
Hey, our position's getting shelled. Don't take the journalists here. We don't want them to get
hurt. So we pull off on the side of the road next to this forest. We have an open field here,
forest here. And I just start trying to film the soldiers candidly. This is a period where I was
nerding out so hard that I didn't even feel like I needed to ask them questions. I was just like,
Wow, this is history. Wow, this is history. Wow, this is history. And I was, I was just really
enthralled with it. And I was every once in a while to ask a few questions,
but I wanted to document the casual conversations between soldiers,
seeing them hug each other, be like, Hey, I, you know, I haven't seen you for a while.
And after 30 minutes of doing this, and they've set up like an impromptu checkpoint to talk to a
few, what I assumed was scouts at the time, I hear this like, like what sounds like a small swarm of
bees, maybe like a, like a phone vibrating, you know, when your phone vibrates, you're like,
like, and I turn to my friend, Patrick Hillsman, who I talked about earlier has experience covering
the war in Syria with the rebels and Aleppo. And I say, do you hear that? And he says, no,
I don't hear it. So I'm like, Oh, okay, it must have been nothing.
And five seconds later, no, it must have been no longer than five seconds later,
one of the Ukrainian soldiers yelled drone, and everybody instantly starts running into the forest.
Reason why they instantly started running was they didn't know if it was a suicide drone.
They didn't know if it was going to drop a grenade. You know, this is early war and people
really feeling the full effective drone warfare on a large scale for the first time. And the
Russians were starting to use it a lot more against the Ukrainians then. That was the first time the
Russians were really starting to like kick up in the use of it. The Ukrainians were the first to
really implement it a lot, definitely during the events on Kiev, but the Russians, the Russians
adapt. People think the Russians are all stupid. And, you know, a lot of them are. But also they
learn and Russian command has learned. And that was just an example of that. So we run into the
forest. And we're just kind of squatting down the forest for five minutes, waiting for something
to happen, either them to make a run for it or them to direct us in some new way. And eventually,
they say, we're just gonna make a run for the van. And we're just going to drive away. So we ran
up to the van, got in as fast as we could, started driving away, and they pulled off at a new spot,
just three minutes down the road. So they didn't get us out of the shit. They just
drive just slightly away from the shit and hope that the drone didn't follow us. Not the safest
path, but at least we weren't at that same spot. Because if it wasn't a suicide drone, and it wasn't
going to drop grenades, it had it. So we assumed it wasn't. Why would it then it would probably be a
spotter drone for artillery? And we were within artillery range, because we were going to the
forward operating position. And wouldn't you know it, once we arrived to this new position,
and my Patrick, and my friend, Patrick Hillsman, he's adamant that it was hitting the position
that we were just at. We start hearing some more explosions. And Patrick Hillsman, again,
he's adamant that it was hitting the position that we were at. Either way, it was probably a spotter
drone. At this new position, they're trying to talk about what, what were they're going to do.
They debate it for about 10 minutes. And eventually they say, look, let's skip going to the forward
operating position. This is too much. We're going to go to SPG nine training, which is the type of
recoil is rifle. So we all pile into the van. And they stick in the key. The van won't start.
I mean, it's a soccer mom band painted green and sent off the war. So I don't know how long
they thought this thing was going to deal with wartime conditions. These things break down,
you know, frequently, especially when you're running it into the woods, running away from drones.
But it wouldn't start up. And it wouldn't start up as drones are circling in the area,
searching for us, so they can spot us for artillery. And we're essentially stranded
outside of just making a run for with our feet, which I mean, the drone, the drone is faster than
we can run. Thankfully, though, they eventually get it started. And we head off to SPG nine training.
And that was my first time on the front. Later, we would end up going to the forward operating
position. Where there we had saw like the leftovers of combat, there was a grain silo,
but shrapnel holes all through it. It almost when you're inside it, it's almost completely dark,
except for the shrapnel holes. So it almost looked like it was like a starry sky inside the
grain silo. We saw damage from like tanks trying to take the position. And once again,
we were getting ready to leave. Oh, it was also interesting because they told us to take cover
under a tarp. And I'm looking up at this plastic tarp, like what's the per is the grenade going
to hit it in like a loony tunes, it's going to like fire it back at the at the drone. But eventually,
we head out again. And what do you know, as we're going to leave one mile from the Russians,
van breaks down again. And we had to push it. We had to push the van until it started.
That was my first time. Are any of these are any of these situations so fucked up that
user like laughing in the moment? Or is it just pure fear? Like, I mean, I joke a lot,
and I joke in these situations as well. I don't know if it's a copy mechanism or what it is,
but I'll like crack jokes a lot of times when everybody else is very like,
antsy and they're like very aware of the situation. I like crack jokes. Sometimes I'll
sing music to myself to, you know, preoccupy the mind. Because when you're in those vehicles,
and you're in these moments where the only thing you really can think about is whether or not you
you can you're about to get shot and blown up or die. You know, you want to preoccupy your mind.
And when you're riding in the car, it's hard to because when you're outside of the car,
it's much easier for me personally. I think some people feel safer. I feel safer outside.
Because I can get down, I can lay down, I can do things that I think can personally that
could keep me safe. I can get away from everyone else so we can spread out so we're not all bunched
up because a van full of soldiers just says juicy target might as well like draw bull's
eye on the side of it. But you have if you're all dispersed and laying down, and you're under
some foliage, you know, I feel a lot more secure. And I'm doing things that make me feel more secure.
I'm preoccupied with trying to survive. But when you're in a van just driving around,
there's nothing I can do. So all I all I'm left with is my thoughts.
Is that is that the scariest situation you've been in? Or have there been
situations that you've been more scared, even though they might have been safe?
I mean, it's one is probably one of the ones I was most scared. It was also my first time.
So I was probably thinking about about death, probably most intensely, compared to other
instances where I've had similar things happen, like in here, son, or in Micolaev.
Micolaev didn't really like a lot of it didn't really set until afterwards. I was mostly cussing
in Micolaev. If you look at all the footage from there when we were during the start of the
here's on counter offensive, we were in the city. And the Russians just started randomly
bombing it in response to the Ukrainians launching the here's on counter offensive because they
were unprepared and they were panicking. And it killed a lot of civilians that day. And a lot
of the shells are falling pretty close. But most of that time I was just cussing. And so instead
of being like, like, like having being chilled to my feet, I felt kind of more like angry,
because I was also just angry at the situation because it's like they're just shelling the
city center during rush hour, like near all the shops and restaurants, we got we were getting
bombed when we were leaving like a like a local restaurant. So I would say that it's probably
one of the ones where I had more fear than the other instances where I had
dangerous very dangerous situations, because it was one of my first and it was hardest to
preoccupy my mind with some sort of coping mechanism. Does your family, they have words
to you like friends and family been like, can you leave or we don't like you being over there
or anything like that? I mean, my family, while my family respects my work, obviously my grandmother
would like me to do something else. You know, she she's often confused as to why I got involved
in politics and this type of stuff in the first place, because she wasn't my grandfather wasn't
and they're the ones that raised me. My mother wasn't my father wasn't there's not really anybody
that has like political involvement in our family, they vote, of course, they're they're members of
a union, but they're not like, they're not going to all the city council meetings, like you need
to put a speed bump and they're not doing that. So they didn't really know where the political
stuff came from. But they under they they respect my work. But they obviously wish that I was doing
something else with my time and that I wasn't putting myself in this sort of danger. My grandmother
already lost my mom, her daughter to heroin. And I'm one of the things that she gave her
by grandmother and my grandfather. And I think they'd like to, you know, preserve one of my
mother's one of only like two children, and the one that they raise they my grandmother will tell
me I am she'll every once in a while, she'll say, you know, I'm your grandmother, but I'm not your
grandmother, I'm your mother, because I raised you. And she wants to get that across. And so I
know she worries about me deeply. But yeah, they worry about me deeply. It must be hard, but at the
same, like, it must be very hard. But at the same time, I think, you're like, you're not out there,
like, you know, selling drugs and putting yourself in risk for like something you're doing something
very moral, I would say, like you're doing a net benefit to society, humanity, like that's what
you're risking yourself for. I think that's, that's admirable, even though it would scare your family
and friends and, and things like that. I have a question. Do you do you think, mainly on this
channel, we talk about religion, we do Bible scholars, like I mentioned, and professors, and
we talk a lot about religion and its effects on the world has religion, do you think played a part
in any of what Russia is doing? And the hope of the Ukrainian people, just to list a few things
for the audience, you probably know, the Patriarch, Kirill of Moscow, the head of the Russian Orthodox
Church has been described by many commentators as supportive of the invasion. Pope Francis,
the head of the Roman Catholic Church has condemned the invasion. Magomed Kirtenev,
a Muslim military commander described the Russian invasion as a holy jihad. So do you think that
is this like a prevalent thing is religion talked about at all as a reason why maybe in
sorry, the whiskey motivating factor, motivating factor behind what the the
shit that the Russians are doing? I don't think, I mean, I think it's for the for the Russian
nationalists and for the Russian church, I think this war and religion are very deeply tied.
Patriarch Kirill, frankly, said that if you go to Ukraine and you die killing the Ukrainians,
you go to heaven. Don't worry about it, you'll go to heaven. That's the type of stuff you'd expect
to hear from like, like, like, very like, like, like people in the mountains and like Afghanistan,
right? That's not something you would expect to hear from the head of a major Christian church.
It's and I'm not trying to I'm not trying to be like Islamophobic or anything. I'm just saying
that that sounds like something you wouldn't expect to hear from the head of a supposedly
independent religious organization that that preaches, you know, loving thy neighbor and
Christian principles. It's not it's something you would expect to hear from the Taliban or
some like like batshit in the middle of the woods Christian militia in like West Virginia.
But that's what he said. And the Russian state has put forward the idea that they are fighting for
the for Russia's unique destiny, the Russian idea. This is something that you can drag this all the
way back to the 16th century, but it was really developed a lot in the mid 19th century, which
is the idea that Russia is unique as a nation state due to its geographic due to its geography
and due to its unique role in history as pushing back at pushing back the enlightenment and pushing
back against degeneracy. And its role in history is to liberate Europe from these these anti Christian
and anti anti Russia ideas and to share the beauty of the Russian world with them.
And the Russian Orthodox Church plays a deep role in that mission. They want the Russian
Orthodox Church to dominate Ukraine. The Russian Orthodox Church operates as an extension of Russia's
power. I'm being blunt about that. And it's true. We've we've seized documents from Russian officials
coming to the United States that directly lay out how they're trying to get Russian Orthodox
Christians in the United States to do intelligence work for them for the FSB for the Russian
Intelligence Service. We have the head of the Russian Orthodox Church calling for basically
jihad against the Ukrainians, religious minorities in occupied territory. Most of them have fled
in the ones who have stayed like the Crimean Tatars have found their activists bloated dead in a
river weeks after disappearing. Religion does play a role. Definitely when it comes to the
homophobia angle, which I don't know why, but Russia, I mean, I kind of do know why, but Russia
has also really focused on the idea that they're fighting against the degeneracy of the West
that is infesting Ukraine, which will then invest Russia, homosexuality, transgenderism,
Satanism and witchcraft are the four ones I usually hear the most. So religion religion does
play a role. I don't know how much of it is genuine and how much of it is just propaganda to scare
people to beat them into the war effort. But the Russian Orthodox Church is deeply entrenched with
the with the Russian government. And in a lot of ways acts as an extension. And that has created
a divide in Ukrainian society over the Russian Orthodox Church with not only Russia recruiting
agents in the Russian Orthodox Church, but they're being divided amongst many older Ukrainians that
have practiced with the Russian Orthodox Church the whole life. And now we're seeing it boxed out
of Ukrainian society and broadly, and they're torn between their country and their church,
they're torn between God and their nation. And it's a very difficult position for them to be in.
I know I'm one of them. I love Anna like we're like she's I don't I've I've talked to a lot of
people in this show, but she's so not genuine they care about. We've talked off air and stuff.
And I love what she says. She says, she goes, we want the country accents very well. We want your
Western degeneracy. We want your Western degeneracy. That's so good. What is she like? She's queer,
isn't she? And she's she's a vegan, like all that postmodern. She's got she's got green hair,
then red hair. Yeah, I don't crazy. Insane. Like, you know, short hair, too. Like, oh, like, well,
short ish, I guess. Yeah, just everything that just I just love it. So I got a I got a couple
questions for you that I really want to touch on. And I want to be careful of the time. Can you go
over a little bit or is it you got a heart out at 90 minutes? I can go over a little bit. I usually
end my streams like around an hour or so and out from now. Okay, cool. All right, no problem.
Well, hopefully you're drunk enough to get a great night's sleep by the end of that. So
there's there's a lot of quotes that I'm hearing around and and we're going to get to some super
chats. So thank you everyone who's been sending super chats. But before we get into the super
chats, there are a couple of other quotes I want to get your take on. So the first one I want to
talk about which is I'm sorry, you're gonna have to you might have to drink a lot more whiskey
after this one because you'll be infuriated I'll be infuriated. But you know, Tucker Carlson,
you know, he's he's very critical. He almost has in my opinion, the direct directly wrong
opinion about absolutely everything. But he's been very critical on the US's involvement in Ukraine.
And he's saying that essentially, the US is falling apart. And, you know, he essentially
paints the US is like, degrading. And why are we sending support to Ukraine? I have my own thoughts
on that. But I'd like to hear your thoughts on a generally, generally, genuinely, sorry, generally
Tucker's coverage of of the invasion and his point about US's involvement.
Man, Tucker Carlson, you know, I think first, I'd like to talk about how people view strength
in international affairs. I feel like Lego's talking about the aesthetics of peace. People
love aesthetics. You know, people talk about all the bad guys having the coolest uniforms.
People talk about the Hugo Boss uniforms, the Nazis war. It really feels like a lot of American
conservatives specifically bought into the aesthetics of Russian power. They bought into
the church's domination in the military. They bought into all those military ads where their
soldiers like I fight for Russia. I don't fight for the pussy. I don't fight for the for the gays.
I fight for Russia, Russia, Russia, Russia, Russia, like that. They see those like that's so cool.
But then when I look at our ads, our Raytheon ad has a lesbian in it. So we're going to lose the war.
I think a lot of people, number one, didn't understand the purpose of those ads,
which was in the United States, we have a recruiting problem. We're trying to diversify
the people we recruit from, right? We already have a general lock on southern pores, but we
don't have as much of a lock on, I guess, LA hipsters. So I think maybe that's what they were
trying to appeal to the military recruiting problem. And that's, that's why they were doing that.
It wasn't because they were trying to display any sort of weakness. And they, and I don't think
they were displaying weakness. I think people read into the aesthetics and quite frankly,
the propaganda way too much. They'll see like a soldier is like doing like a cool march. And they're
like, well, this gives me the emotion of strength. So I now know the Russians are powerful. And all
of that fell apart when the Russians crossed the border, that all those marches and performances
and all of that, it was kind of compensating. I do think the Russians overestimated themselves.
I don't think they were in there knowing that they were so unready to carry out sort of on
operation, but they were completely unready to carry out that sort of an operation. And the
gay liberal bombs in the United States and gay liberal invasion of Iraq was over in 30 days.
And that was an invasion halfway across the world where we don't have an interconnected
highway system. Not endorsing the invasion of Iraq. I'm just pointing out the difference in
the effectiveness of taking an occupying land between the Russian and American militaries,
the woke army and the non woke army. So that was something that I feel like I think that's one
of the things that have gotten some American conservatives to start flirting with Russia.
And I think that some of them have really gotten into the idea of the West is degenerate and it
needs a force to push back against it. And Russia shall be that force when I hear Marjorie Taylor-Green
saying on the news on like Newsmax that Ukraine is harvesting baby organs to fund its war.
I can't assume, I can only assume either she's absolutely insane, which is believable,
or that she's quite literally carrying water for the Russians.
That's the conclusion I can come to. Now, when it comes to Tucker Carlson,
Tucker Carlson has been awash in misinformation in relation to this war. I think the worst
example I have seen, I could talk about the thing he said to Mike Pence when he was asking him
questions during his run for president saying, you know, in Ukraine, they oppress all the
Christians, they arrest them and stuff. Just like throwing, just throwing stuff out. He must
have heard in the back of his ear or something to like get Mike Pence on Christians and Mike
Pence pushed back against the saying it wasn't true. But the main thing that really bothered me
was when we were talking about casualty differences between the Russians and the Ukrainians.
I don't know if you remember the Jack Tixterra leaks. That was when that National Guardsman
wanted to impress a bunch of people in a discord server that didn't really care about the fact
that's right.
It was on, it was called the thug shaker discord server.
Usually it's war thunder. So I do appreciate a change in pace, but I wish they chose something
different than thug shaker. One of the things he leaked was documents that showed American
Intel's estimation of what the casualty numbers were. And Tucker Carlson took some version of it,
which was not the original version, but an edited version that somebody had photoshopped online
that said the original version said that for every one Ukrainian that dies, two and a half
Russians die for the fight, which, you know, rushes the invading army. We've seen them enter
military catastrophe after military catastrophe. This was as they were trying to grind through
buck boot and they were in the Wagner was not respecting the lives of many of their conscripts
very much. It's not impossible to believe that sounds like a number that makes sense.
The edited version made it for every one Russian that dies, seven Ukrainians die.
But in this altered version, not only is that number ended up itself when you read it, like
that's unbelievably ridiculous. I don't know how anybody would even believe that once they heard
it. But in the edited version of it, they didn't even change the other documents that referred to
the original number. It was a poor misinformation hack job. And Tucker Carlson, one of the most
went on the most popular name in cable news and repeated those numbers, not once, but twice.
Next week, he had RFK on to say the same thing with no pushback, reinforce what he said.
Fox News at any point could have issued a retraction. They could have said this isn't
true that he's using a Photoshopped version of the document, not the original document,
that anybody could have gone and access at any time to check if it was real.
But he didn't. He chose not only to say it, he chose to say it again.
And at a certain point, when I see something like that,
I have to think that either he's lying, he made a horrible mistake and he's unwilling to admit
to it because it supports his position and he doesn't care and he doesn't want to admit to
to make a mistake. And he has said in the past that he will lie when he's cornered.
He's admitted to that. Or he's carrying water for the Russians. And considering some of the
social views that he puts forward, I don't think that's completely out of the realm of possibility.
Definitely when he's describing the differences between Russian society and American society.
Tucker Carlson is probably one of the worst sources you can get on this war,
but it was also the number one cable news show in the United States talking to people about this war.
I saw this one poll done to talk that showed the difference between what Americans thought of the
war before they were giving key facts about the war and after. These key facts included
things like Ukraine has liberated over 50% of the territory the Russians have captured
since February of last year. That's a true fact that they've lost like 50% of their armored reserves.
That's a true fact. If you give them this information, the support for the war jumps
like 15 to 18 points amongst Democrats, amongst independents, and the biggest jump was amongst
Republicans. It was like 18 to 19 points. It turned our support up from like 52 to 53 to 70%.
That was a massive jump. It's hard for me to imagine when given the facts, that's the numbers
that we get, that the disinformation hasn't had an impact and that there is an instant chunk of
Americans making a decision on whether they support aid or not and possibly legislators from the
terrible performances we've seen about this war from people like Marjorie Taylor Greene saying
they're harvesting baby organs to fund the war, that a decent amount of the chunk of the people
who are not supporting Ukraine is from misinformation. Now, there are people who are
against supporting Ukraine because they're just isolationists. I disagree with it,
but I understand that those people have always existed. But I want Americans to make decisions
on whether or not we should send aid to the Ukrainians based upon what's really happening
on the ground and not some fantasy slop job photoshop cooked up in the middle of the night
in some 4chan room that somehow the biggest name of news repeated twice on his program to millions
upon millions of Americans. It's crazy. The way 4chan has been able to create things like Flat
Earth and QAnon and all that bullshit and some of it starting as a troll and then now it's
in mainstream people believe it. It's just crazy. Jordan Peterson,
what do you think about him saying that it's naive to think that the Russians will lose the war?
I agree with that.
I think a lot of people in my space sometimes will look at these Twitter videos of Russians going
Kaboom and they'll get into a little bit of a frenzy after seeing some atrocities and seeing
how poorly the Russians performed at the start and they'll forget that militaries adapt. The
Soviets adapt after invading Finland. People talk about the Soviet finish war. Not many people
like to talk about how it ended which is that the Soviets got territory. They didn't get everything
they wanted but they did end up taking Soviet territory and there was a compromise that was
came to and I think that was in large part due to the fact that the international community
failed to respond to that invasion. They failed to send Finland the support it needed and the
only most of the support Finland got was on a small scale or was from international volunteers
that didn't end up fighting anyway and mostly served a propaganda purpose. Some of them fought
but most of them didn't and if the western coalition supporting Ukraine is weak-willed
and doesn't up the production of artillery shells and stuff that's necessary for Ukraine to win
and we see them start flagging on aid as we see certain house members trying to drag down the
conversation that's the type of stuff that could cause that outcome then I think saying that it's
a naive belief that the Russians are going to lose I agree with that. I don't believe that the war
has been won or the war will inevitably be won by the Ukrainians. I think that that you know the
Ukrainians have a lot of things in their favor and the Ukrainians can win but assuming that the
Russians will lose because the hand of history bends towards justice I'm very sorry many times
the people who deserve to have some self sovereignty or deserve to have freedom got
crushed they lost it was hundreds of years before they got freedom. I mean the Ukrainian history
is full of examples of independent struggles having moments of like could we do it before
being crushed. This is an incredible opportunity the Ukrainians have. The Russians really butchered
the start of this war not only when it comes to the people but also when it comes to the
operations they just did not manage it well. I doubt if the Russians invade again in five years
they're going to make a lot of the same mistakes I made the first time that's another thing the
Russians in 2022 are not the same Russians at the end of 2023 they've adapted they've
integrated drone warfare much more their supply lines are much more secure they have a semi more
realistic expectations about what they could possibly accomplish and how offensive operations
can go they're not just sending like armored columns in a straight line towards major cities
assuming that everybody's just going to roll over because great Russia has arrived
packing parade uniforms and and making dinner reservations in major cities that they're marching
on those Russians of 2022 are gone they've either were killed or they were awoken by
getting having their friends be killed so assuming that the Russians are going to lose when again
they're five I didn't I say it again but this is not I'm not saying this again
they're five times the size of Ukraine when it comes to literal size well more than five times
the size when it comes to literal size but when it comes to population they produce more shells
they produce more rockets and as far as we know they're going to probably be producing more drones
if the coalition supporting Ukraine is weak willed and does not support them then I do think
that some sort of stalemate could set in permanently and we could have a situation
where this conflict is frozen and then the can is kicked down the road and whether another war
would happen I don't know for sure but I would definitely say that given Russia's track record
in Ukraine and Russia's stated goals at the start of this war if they haven't achieved them the first
time why wouldn't they just try again and and not to mention like let's say they wait five years
invade again and we have some sort of stalemate and ceasefire do we really think that in five years
after all of this that the West is going to come out again and support Ukraine in the way it did
now maybe more so I don't know I'm not so confident in that it depends on the political winds do you
think Ukraine can get into NATO I I think it's possible I think if they push the Russians out
for example that NATO membership is going to be much easier because the barrier of territorial
disputes will be gone but there's still NATO member states that disagree with them joining
like Hungary being I think the main party that disagrees with them joining NATO now they say
that it's because they are they're not allowing Hungarian language schools to operate within
Ukraine in areas that have higher percentages of like Hungarian speaking communities I think
that's an issue between Ukraine and Hungary but I don't think that's the main reason that they're
holding NATO ascension back I think that they are they take a lot of Russian energy exports
they're a lot closer to Russia and this is probably a favor that Victor or Bond is some
capacity is doing for the Russians and he wants to get more concessions as well but I also but
again the former I think is is the bigger barrier because I think that Hungarian language school
issue in defense of Ukraine's sovereignty from an invading army there can be probably some
compromise found on that if they're if the Hungarians are genuinely interested in finding
compromise but if they're just carrying water for the Russians it's going to be a lot harder
and so I do think that they can join if they win the war the pressure is going to be immense on
the Hungarians from the basically the entirety of NATO to allow them to join and if they don't win
in order to stop the can from just being kicked down the road and another invasion happening in
the future I think NATO membership is going to be harder I think a situation where it could kick
off again at any time is going to give pause for many western diplomats but if they genuinely
are making a security structure at that point and not just like freezing the contact line and
letting the conflict age a little bit before resorting down the line then maybe they could
find some unilateral defense pact between the United States and Ukraine or the United Kingdom
in the United States and Ukraine or something outside of NATO which is also a possibility
and I don't think NATO is the only solution I just think it's the clearest and most obvious solution
What do you think about Noam Chomsky who is he was his is a he's been quite critical
and he said that he sees a two two main things that the Russia Russians are more humane in
Ukraine than the US was in Iraq who said that Noam Chomsky okay and he also said that if China was
to ally with Mexico and start putting bases and things in Mexico that US would respond worse
or at least the same as Russia is responding to Ukraine
I mean he should stick to linguistics I I don't know what the purpose is of trying to compare
the Iraqi the invasion of Iraq and the invasion of Ukraine I believe the invasion of Iraq was
a horrible mistake but there are key differences between these wars number one the occupation
we're talking about an occupation period that went on for what like up into 2013-2014
the Russians haven't even occupied the whole country and in the territories they did occupy
and have been liberated we've uncovered tons of masquerades so the Russians did not get nearly
as far as the United States did we were able to take over the entire country of Iraq and for
that brief period we had control of the country and we could decide what we do with the country
the Russians never even got that far and the little bit of ground they did gain controlling
like 20% of the country right now they've committed untold atrocities so the comparison
is already faulty in my opinion but also the goals of these two different wars I think are
different as well I believe that moving in with the with the goal of moving out the locals that
speak one language in replacing them with colonial settlers I do think that is horribly bad comparing
it specifically to a regime change invasion in Iraq it's hard to like measure on the moral scale
but I would say that the long lasting impacts of that could be a lot more multi-generational than
when the American troops leave Iraq or when the American occupation period ends because that is
just a straight-up land grab old-style imperialism I'm not going to stand here and try to say which
invasion is good or which invasion is worse but him saying that our invasion was more brutal not
only is the comparison bad but I also think he's just wrong I think he's just doing it to both sides
the issue because he needs to perform against the United States and every conversation about other
countries he failed when it comes to analysis of the genocide in Cambodia and he failed when it
came to the analysis of the Russian invasion of Ukraine um what was the second part of the question
uh like say if um if china allied with mexico oh there's a conversation between the chinese
government the cuban government about putting chinese bases in cuba right now those those are
conversations that are going on and if the american government says they were going to invade cuba
because of those bases I think it would be unbelievably stupid but guess what there's not a
single nato base in ukraine to this day doesn't exist do you know I don't know I like yeah no
chance for them to join nato so even if I was like I don't see that point necessarily anyway
I do think all the people talking for calling for an invasion of Mexico are crazy but even if I was
to see that point there were no nato bases in ukraine
hmm do you think uh you're the kind of person like I don't know how uh I don't have american
brain I know that you guys like what you read the pledge of allegiance at the school and stuff like
that will you call out american atrocities if when you see them or when you hear about them
or are you the kind of person who will always back uh america like for myself uh we're a little bit
there's part of my friends and family that are very patriotic as well in Australia and Australia
committed some war crimes in Australian troops committed some war crimes in afghanistan and I'm
the first person to say fuck them those people should be trialed and um fucking dragged through
the street and you know you know it's it's not okay to just because you know that someone's from
the middle east it's not okay to kill civilians or torture people or whatever what are your thoughts
on that I was I was raised by a marine a vietnam veteran my grandfather um so I would say that when
it comes to patriotism I was raised at a pretty patriotic household um but I can be blunt with
you that my life was a massacre our bombing campaign in Cambodia Laos in vietnam was horrifically
brutal and it kills people to this day um I could talk about our supply of weapons the brutal
monarchy in Yemen that chops up journalists which was wrong and we shouldn't have done it and it
perpetuated uh an intervention that had a few years into it we could tell that it was not going to be
successful and the Saudis were not gaining ground and get and get capturing the ports that would be
necessary to strangle the the Houthi rebels uh I mean I could go down the list of all the things
that America's done that I don't like um but I am perfectly willing to call out that for example
recent event I believe our interference in internal Pakistani politics with the ISI is bad and it's
against democratic principles and if we're going to try to champion ourselves as a champion of
democracy or quote quote leader of the free world we should not be trampling upon Pakistani democracy
hmm interesting yeah I yeah I uh the the whiskey's catching up with me a little bit
but I someone agree I've got a question from Dee who's a member of the channel um
can you tell us the biggest thing you think the media has gotten wrong and not just like the
margaritayla but well maybe tell us a margaritayla green conspiracy as well but like
something that you see just perpetuated that you're like fuck this is so inaccurate
Russian speakers man from the way some some of the media talked about Russian speakers I
thought I was gonna go out east and I was gonna be like little fucking Russian flags
on like people's porches and they're gonna be like it's love over to see you get out of here
American infidel here but the vast majority of soldiers I've interacted with and worked with are
Russian speakers the vast majority of aid workers I have filmed with Russian speakers
demining crews Russian speakers everything near the front line Russian speakers Russian speakers
territorial defense Russian speakers all most of the Ukrainian ultra nationalists that I've met
in the east who are fighting as of right sector Russian speakers people don't know this right
sector and as of are full of people who speak Russian isn't that weird that we don't know that
that the people that Russia says they're here to liberate
are the same people that they're also calling Nazis isn't that bizarre but the media has never
jumped on it uh Harkiv took the Russian army and threw them out Odessa they never were able to
do that landing uh so many different Russian speaking communities kicked the Russian army out
they got that wrong so much I think a big part of the reason why that people thought Ukraine was
going to fall is a lot of people really bought the idea that there was a large trunk of Ukrainian
society that when the Russians roll over the border and started committing all these atrocities
we're going to say for slava slava russia we this is all good you can murder my wife for Russia
like no of course not and the people who did have sympathies a lot of them were shaken out of it
by Russian brutality I remember the first time I was trying to organize this trip into Ukraine
I was being told to go to Moldova not through Poland which is the main route the journalist
uses the crossing the border there through the checkpoints but through Moldova the reason why
was because a lot of eastern Ukrainians had fled there and they were still in shock over the idea
that brotherly Russia could do this and there are videos of people who are more sympathetic to Russia
at the start of the invasion as their houses are getting bombed and the locations are out of getting
bombed saying why why why why we've treated you like brothers they really got the eastern
the eastern Ukrainian Russian speaking question super wrong there is no evidence that any of the
provinces that Russia has annexed that we know for sure that the majority of those areas supported
Russia's annexation especially in Donetsk and Luhans Crimea is a lot more dicey and a lot more
closer but still there's no we don't have any hard evidence of that
damn um I have that it's I could keep talking to you for days but um you know I uh we don't
have all night but hang for she you're gonna have to pronounce this for me um you have getting
yeah what the hell was he thinking uh or was he really not thinking he must have not known
to walk under any pianos being delivered through the second floor windows what really went down
can you give us some context I have no idea what hang for she is talking about thank you for the
super chat though so you have getting progosin is the leader of the Wagner group and I assume
what he's referring to is when you have getting progosin decided he was going to do a thunder
run on Moscow and have the Wagner group march on Moscow in this march of justice
um where we found out after the fact from certain outlets that he seemed to want to arrest
Garisimov and Shoygu the head of the defense ministry and chief staff for the Russian armed
forces um because they weren't allocated him the resources that he wanted shells and stuff like
that but also because they were closing in on him that they were going to take a lot of his control
over the Wagner group which had bloated into this massive military company through the war
through the battle of Bakhmut through them recruiting a lot of prisoner soldiers and you
have getting progosin would allow these prisoners to keep their prison culture in the units telling
them that explicitly um so he would recruit these prisoners who then would join the Russian army
and in the Russian army they would act as prisoners and they would send them in waves
saying you'll gain your freedom if you survive into these positions now some people say that's
stupid but the people that I've talked with who actually fought Wagner like right sector guys who
fought in Bakhmut will tell me they'll send those guys and they'll soften up the position and then
they'll send in the people with experience from Syria the real killers that have been in central
Africa and across the world and really know what they're doing and that softening up the position
helps them because you don't know until they start shooting who's the guy who knows what they're doing
and who's the guy who's just kind of like I don't want to be in prison for rape
and they're running at the position um but eventually uh the amount of shells they were
getting his complaints about it increased his complaints about the incompetency of Russian
command how they were mismanaging the war and they were leading Russia to destruction
it increased he was saying more and more wild statements about about the Russian military
and how he's mismanaging the war he did this one video where he stood in front of a bunch of corpses
and he pointed back at them and said this is at the hands of Shoigu this is at the hands of
Grisimov Shoigu Grisimov and he was getting like that is the type of stuff that if he was uh somebody
in the Russian opposition that would get him immediately arrested but because his criticism
was we should be killing the Ukrainians more effectively it was allowed to fester but that
discontent that he was voicing then got combined with the fact that Grisimov Shoigu were closing in
on him and they were about to take essentially his private military company from him and they
were going to write new military contracts that would have the Wagner group soldiers signing
contract with the ministry of defense usurping his command and he felt cornered he felt surrounded
and he looked at his army of 30,000 to 40,000 soldiers many of them rapists and murderers
that they recruited from prison and he got an idea a devious idea like the Grinch got an idea
and he organized a march on Moscow where they marched into Rostov Rostov-on-Don which is a
major supply hub for the war in a Russian city one of the largest Russian cities in the country
they took it over and then marched on Moscow and killed soldiers along the way they were shooting
down Russian planes they shot down Russian command aircraft it was insane everybody thought that the
that the Russian state could genuinely dissolve in the civil war depending on how the situation
was developing but then as he got outside of Moscow he stopped and he turned around walked away
after negotiating something presumably with uh Lukashenko according to him and that was that
and the deal that was made seemed to be that he would have some control of Wagner and he would
it seemed like to me that he would have control of Wagner in Africa and be able to manage the
gold mines and the stuff that makes money without having to deal with the mucking grime of the war
in Ukraine even if he would be losing power he'd still be in some profitable circles and you have
getting proposed and having a long history in organized crime you know this is something that
he's quite happy with I mean maybe not the most happy with but most people in a situation you know
they're already in a desperate situation his move showed that he was in a desperate situation
of him getting boxed in but um he got off relatively scot-free at the moment but I said at the time that
if Putin does not crack down on this guy after saying that he was going to bring him to justice
during the march on Moscow and that didn't stop them and his government looked weak and unable
to stop you have getting proposed for marching on his capital because people were putting down
their guns they didn't want to fight the Wagner guys they're Wagner they they're known for beating
people to death with sledgehammers you're gonna let those a rapist murderous criminal who's known
for who got put in prison for armed robbery and is known for beating people to death with sledgehammers
you're gonna get in a fight with that guy yeah no I'm good as a national guardsman in Russia
yeah I was I I want to go back home to my family that that seemed to be the reaction from the
people who were home supposed to defend Russia from this type of scenario um they didn't have a
flank and so but then also Putin didn't make an example of him and so the fear that I think he had
was that Purgosin was going to make him look weak and then encourage this type of behavior down the
road that next time there's some big security crisis in Ukraine let's say for example the
Ukrainians push the Russians back with his aphorosis counter offensive get to the get to the ocean
um what if something like this happened again and so even if he made a deal with Purgosin
he planned and he plotted and I believe this is what I believe that he then assassinated
Purgosin to make an example of him and then he gave the company to a son and so I think what
Purgosin was thinking when he made that deal was that I have about 3 000 soldiers that's how
many he had roughly we don't have exact numbers to march on Moscow we know that there's probably
in trench troops in Moscow at the very least to stop this type of advance if he kills them and
takes Moscow there's no going back and if we're being offered this deal I mean who else would
be offered this type of deal uh and most in most scenarios like this a dictator just kills them to
make an example of them and so he took the risk on the deal rather than taking the risk of trying
to take over the entire country with 3 000 men do you think do you think the if Putin dies the
invasion dies or do you think that's like oh no oh no I have some I know Patrick Hillsman my
good friend of mine he thinks that I think that's that's nonsense um whoever takes over if it's part
of the same siloviki elite that Putin came from uh they're going to have many of the same motivations
to salvage the war they're going to have some many of the same motivations to protect Crimea
from from the Ukraine is taking it back um Russia's annexed this territory under the
Russian constitution the land that they are fighting for right now is Russian land according to them
it's wrong the vast majority of the international community doesn't respect it the locals don't
respect it uh the Ukrainian government doesn't respect it but that's what Russian law respects
and if Putin dies and a new person takes power and his first thing in power is okay we're going
to give all the land back and leave and make all those deaths pointless there could be a fear that
you're rocking the boat too much you might be challenged from somebody like Pregos and you
might march on Moscow um who's not gonna because he's not gonna initially have the same respect
that Putin did as a as a power broker um and I just think there's a there's a general fear of
um basically showing the whole water be a fucking scam
do oh gonna love the $20 super chat and this is the last one from
Hank Vashy thank you again for the super chat also my chat even super chats too I'd like
yeah yeah just for sure um Gary Kasparov to Sim Harris Putin use Syria to destabilize western
democracies is Ukrainian now a means for the west to clap back at Putin do the US analyze
Russian ops in the theater and see an opportunity to topple Putin I've heard like a few western
statements from American officials about the idea of like Putin needs to go I know Biden once
said something along those lines but these are like kind of most they seem to be mostly
one-off statements and I feel it would be it'd be hasty to build upon that to say this is western
policy I think broadly western policy is get the Russians out of Ukraine trying to do regime
change in a country with nuclear weapons is a very risky endeavor and I and Russian politics
domestically is so closed off and so hard to peer into as an outsider even though
the CIA definitely has decent contacts within Russia that I think that like you're really
going to be rolling the dice if you try to pull that off unless you're in an extra like an an
extraordinary situation that we're certainly not in right now I don't think the west would care
if Putin got toppled in fact I think the west would probably be pretty happy if Putin got toppled
I'd be happy if Putin got toppled but the west moving in troops or something like that to do that
that would be unbelievably risky I do think though if he fails to warn Ukraine that could be
you know a a a a cinder to cause the fire to cause that type of a crisis I think when people
talk about like Putin fighting for his political survival I do think that's a real thing yeah
okay um let me just some shout out your channel so for those who don't know uh who you are uh first
of all shame on you no I'm kidding um I'm a bit drunk on the stage I'm going straight to work
after this is like I start work like the minute I get off stream which is oh that's terrible
but I'm a video wrestler so I mean you need sometimes you need that creative juices yeah
that's different I thought maybe like worked in an office space you worked at some stored
facility or something but okay my boss is actually a subscriber so he watches and sometimes oh that's
cheating but uh but anyway uh your your youtube channel you just cover this stuff like non-stop
like you just got some really good stuff going on here I'm not a twitch person but of course I've
linked your twitch in the uh in the description as well but uh so if you are a twitch person you can
go um check out your channel there um I also for your audience I don't know how many how many
uh viewers do you have at the moment Dylan I don't know I don't have a live view count on my stream
because it gives me anxiety yeah okay yeah fair fair but anyway for the people who are watching
you know I've described this before but I have conversations with people usually about religion
but also about philosophy and human rights and um coming up we have a genetically modified
skeptic which is probably the biggest uh atheist youtube content creator who deconstructed his
faith and deconstructed his pseudoscientific beliefs and I've also interviewed people who
worship the old gods like uh Ocean Cultsway here who literally worships the Norse gods
or people who deconstruct uh from like Jehovah's Witnesses uh or all Bible scholars like uh Dr
Robin Peth Welsh here so it's a good fun time over here and one other thing I wanted to mention
is you've written an article for this uh this um uh journal called Off the Beat Off Beat sorry
can you tell us a little bit about this yeah so I uh a few I think it was like six or seven
months ago I interviewed a crime a displaced person from Crimea uh a queer anarchist from
Crimea uh that I was I really enjoyed this interview because it showed a perspective that is
is under covered um I see a lot of people talking about those uh recently I think it should still
be more about people displaced from Israel from what is now Israeli territory Palestinians
displaced who are unable to return to their homes but that experience is not just there in the Levant
is also in Ukraine and a lot of people who used to live in Crimea were forced out by the political
repression from those repressed because they have ties to Ukrainian military, Ukrainian government,
Ukrainian identity that as in they speak Ukrainian language or they have ties to Ukrainian nation state
or because they wanted a prosperous civil society and not one that strangles any opposition
and so she fled um uh once the uh invasion after a few uh year or two after the invasion
went to Germany and once 2022 occurred and once the Russians invaded fully she came back and joined
the military in order to liberate her home and I think that's a perspective that is not highlighted
enough in media that if you freeze the contact line for a lot of people that means they're not
returning home that means that they're returning to foreign countries or that means that they're
returning to apartments that they didn't grow up in uh and they'd like to return to the home they
grew up in they'd like to return to their old family home that their family lived in for generations
but they've been displaced from it I I just got back from an artillery embed and I was talking to
them about this issue and two things happened related to this that I think really touched me
the first thing was I was talking to a military psychologist I think 10 miles from the Russians
we were in we were embedded with the Zepperoza counter offensive they were they were using the
m777 howitzer system an American artillery system and I was talking to them about people displaced
in what peace like entrenching the lines as they are right now what that would mean and he talked
about one of the soldiers in his in the unit who used to own a farm in occupied territory
and would just look into the distance constantly just look into the distance daydreaming about
returning to his farm when he doesn't have anything else to do as an artilleryman because
artillerymen 90 of their job is just waiting and waiting and maintenance and waiting waiting
underground and in deep holes a shallow trench uh a shallow trench means a quick death um
and that really connected with me the idea of just your whole existence as a military men
is surrounding wanting to liberate your literal physical home and the second person was our fixer
Bogdan a good friend of mine who is displaced from Donetsk the city of Donetsk and we got close
enough to the city of Donetsk so you could see some of the village outskirts of Donetsk and he
called his father on FaceTime and showed him he was like hey dad look look it's home it's home
you can see home it was the first time he had seen it in nine years because he was displaced
a year nine years ago when the Russians invaded in 2014 and both Crimean and the Donbass
and I think a lot of times that perspective is not properly shown and I would like it to be shown more
well Dylan um you know everything I've said this you know not to psych your dick too much
but you really do impress me with what you're doing I recommend people go subscribe do you
have any super chats or any comments you want to read out from your chat um I can ask quick chat
do you have any questions do you have any questions you want to ask me I guess yeah we can ask questions
for me as well like how how are the notes of this whiskey which they're delicious I will say um
uh actually one question as you as you chat kind of formulate some questions I have a another question
is what can we do uh the people who are here uh in in the west I guess who are looking at this war
uh and going fuck um you know this is horrible what can we do I mean the main thing is um
um make sure your representatives know that when you vote you are voting for the
defensive democracy internationally which includes Ukraine and that you believe that
Euro-Atlantic stability and disability in Europe is a basis for the prosperity of the United States
for the prosperity of Australia the prosperity of everybody that's in the quote-unquote democratic
world I don't like the word the west I don't like the term very much but I I want people to
tell their representatives this because I feel like a lot of representatives don't feel that
pressure that most of the time we're engaged in making sure we engage in online discourse
but just reminding people that they do vote on this issue this is an issue that determines
whether they vote against them or for them in a primary or votes against them and for
before them in the general and I think making that well known is one of the main things you
can do because you and I do not have tanks in our garage you and I don't have air defense systems
in our garage okay it'd be awesome but we don't you do not have 2008 k-47s locked up under your
bed okay I do in Kosovo but not not under my bed um that's like you could there's a meme of you
smuggling weapons right that's like the name I swear I'm not a smuggler and only the government
of these countries can be the ones that send those military supplies outside of that there's
charities of course you can donate to if you want that type of dopamine hit for being able to help
directly after an interview like this uh UA animals is something I direct people to uh when I was in
here sawn reading the report of over 20 000 animals drowning in the flooding uh was pretty horrific
we were uh I was working with UA animals to set up an animal shelter in here sawn when I was down
there and I think that's uh a charity doesn't get much attention so I'd like to give it some
um there's also the solidarity collective and there's other organizations you can give support
to as well but uh UA animals I think nobody can be against stopping horses from drowning and flooding
I don't think anybody is against that so that's that's a group you can support
awesome well thank you so much do you have any questions you want to read out from your
chat before we ask why are you a former youth pastor oh okay a question I was joking
by the question for me but yeah sure uh well I went through a um long deconstruction process
essentially I was a young earth creationism uh person I spoke in tongues I laid people on
hands of people I did all the spiritual stuff I really believe what I believed and then I came
to investigate my worldview and slowly decided to deconstruct my faith uh now I'm now probably
agnostic atheist well I am an agnostic atheist I no longer believe in God but at one time I would
have died for my faith um if you want to hang on let me just um find something to show your
show your uh you guys I saw uh for your audience can I see the stream what do you mean can I don't
our faces our faces like can I see our faces yeah they can see your faces oh cool um so I did
I told my story here on midfielder why he left christianity three bible issues he couldn't ignore
and it was you know I was just talking about essentially you know problems that we had um
but uh that goes into a little bit of it and I told parts of my other story um elsewhere yeah
okay it's very nice to have a question for me that's that's that's very nice
you spoke in tongues yeah do you want me to do you want me to do you want to talk about that
we can talk we can like when you speak in tongues right can you number one explain the purpose of
that and number two what did it feel like when you're speaking in tongues I can speak in tongues
now still um but uh I'm gonna I'm gonna polish out like us do you know you have to develop because
I feel like I could like I could say like
gibberish is it just gibberish or is there like a skill to it so the what the church teaches
and the pentecost church that I was a part of is um you know the bible says that you know
that the disciples of of jesus the followers of jesus you'll know them by their signs and that's
speaking in tongues laying out of hands healing sick uh drinking deadly poison and not harming you
holding poisonous snakes and that you know will not hurt you that's why uh it's it's it's actually
an american thing uh where you get the appellation slank handlers who actually do they think it's
like an instruction man those be real they think it's an instruction to to drink poison and handle
snakes they don't think it's like a if you happen to um type thing but um the idea of tongues is
once you get baptized in the holy spirit you have uh you have the holy spirit inside you
and you need to sometimes you don't know what to pray so you'll be praying tongues and the holy
spirit will say the words for you in a heavenly language or a language of this earth so and and
why that's important is uh if you remember I don't know how well you know your bible but this is a
sort of I was told in the bible moses is trying to enter the promised land and he decides to
god tells him to speak to the rock and it will pour out water for the millions of israelites
that are leaving egypt which by the way never happened there's no there was no mess
excess from egypt but in the story it happened and he doesn't speak to the rock he decides to
whack the rock with a stick and it breaks forth and all the water pours out uh and so and then god
says to him because you disobeyed me because I told you to speak to the rock and not whack the rock
with your stick um you'll you'll never enter the promised land so it moses never entered
the promised land which was israel joshua did um or yeah it was joshua geez my whisk is really
affecting me today uh so the the idea was god was trying to show us the importance of our physical
words there is life and death and the power of the tongue so there's like some law of the universe
I guess for god that we need to actually physically speak something out loud so like have to physically
pray for something or physically do something with our mouths in order for the prayers to to work
I've heard people having visions and instead of asking god god tell the angels to do this the
person will just tell the angels to do this angels are commanded to do this or whatever because you
have the power on the authority so that's all along our story to say speaking in tongues was just a
way to um to have the holy spirit speak the words that you may not know in the situation so maybe
you're praying for a friend and you know you don't know what to pray for them and then but
I mean I I don't know I guess in my mind I'm immediately just like thinking it over thinking
if that was the case wouldn't you hear like certain words over and over and over again
across different people speaking tongues if you're speaking a language if I was speaking like if I
just randomly knew how to speak Spanish from like the depths of my mind from some connection to some
spiritual plane like I would say like uno dos tres and you would hear those like words over and over
but when I hear people speak tongues there's just like different like levels of gibberish
no it's interesting because I I found that when I was around certain people I would pick up new
vernacular new words just by just by I guess hearing it and falling into my subconscious so
when you're speaking to like you just start it's just kind of like comes out of you but the
I will say that what what I just did then is something I would do is like speaking in tongues
when I was religious again I'm not religious now I don't think tongues is anything like supernatural
I don't believe in the supernatural but when something would happen to me that was like
quite profound like I was in a quote-unquote spiritual environment where there was just this
this presence in the room or this this experience that was happening to people people were falling
over or laughing or having visions and stuff my tongues would sound different they would sound
something that I can't really emulate here but again I don't think there's anything
supernatural involved there but yeah I definitely look I have an interesting story but
but it's it's a long one so one second one of my fans just told me that they appreciated your
interview on myth vision and the recent interviews with Matt de la honte oh awesome that's great
it's great to hear about the guys like I appreciate um it's nice to hear there's another chat out there
and people who um have seen my stuff it's really I really appreciate that um I'll have to
say hello to your chat actually I'll just post in here now and I don't I'm not signed in but
do you damn twitches I twitch people I just don't understand it I signed a contract with the devil
man I signed a contract with the devil oh right so you can't stream on youtube I can only stream
on youtube but I'm not streaming on twitch and the content I gotta wait like 24 hours before I can
like like publish the content of the stream on twitch it's really silly um I don't I honestly
if I was starting my my channel today I would be streaming on youtube it was it's much better for
political content it is a much larger political community and the space that I advertise for
now uh or try to I'm trying to gather now just better on youtube but I'm with twitch I've been
on twitch for so long and I've already made so so many big changes in content with making this
shit from hippie dippy and it's up to content of three before it is the content I'm doing now uh the
war journalism that you know I'm just a little anxious to make any more big changes in the immediate
future
yeah well look uh Dylan I think that you're going to go on to do amazing things I'm gonna end the
stream on my end here if you want to keep chatting we can um I'm gonna I'm gonna head out I'm gonna
go sleep yeah you're looking perfectly drunk perfectly tired what time is it there for you
it is six a.m. oh jeez okay I'll definitely let you go I didn't realize it was so late
thanks again for coming on Dylan I really appreciate this anytime man you want to like
come on or you want to do a stream together I'm happy to come on as well I really appreciate it
if your audience does come over um subscribe to my channel and does comment if you put like maybe
like a little Ukrainian flag I'll know you're from Dylan's stream and I'll make sure to um to
like read your comments or something I don't know but I know that you've come from Dylan's
stream but uh thanks thanks guys and if you come over from my chat you join on the youtube
youtube comments or something I guess what's my emoji put a beer glass or some sort of a
drinking glass you'll know that you've come from deep drinks but thanks again Dylan it's been
awesome chatting with you and everyone make sure to support Ukraine let's do this
you
