Mennonites. This is Eli Yoda. He escaped the Amish when he was 18, and now he's given away all the
secrets of the Amish theology. Oh, and he also helps to rescue child sex abuse victims within some
of his communities. Yeah, well, the Amish is a religious group. And, well, they really actually
only existed 350 years in America. But because when they came over from Switzerland, they were
called the Anabaptists. And then off of the Anabaptists was a group called Mennonites. And there
was a man named Meno Simmons, and it's named the Mennonites are named after him. So thirdly came
the Amish, because there was a man by the name of Jacob Amon, that really wanted to make it his own
thing. He was kind of wanting to reject his own people and actually shun some of his own family
and his parents, and got a group together to make it his own. So Jacob Amon Amish is named after
Amon. And that is how the Amish were birthed. And since then, there has been just hundreds and
hundreds of different splits, because they have grown so much in size. And they they triple every
20 years they tripled because of their large families. So because of the disagreements, and
because they are establishing their own rules. So usually they don't get along with all the rules
as they get bigger and bigger and more people are in the communities. So that is why they have the
splits. And they totally believe in Jacob Amon's articles of faith. Now those articles of faith
were written with a lot of scripture and but rules. It was works based with a lot of rules. They
believed that you should follow and then separate yourselves from the world. They believe that you
should not have anything to do with any other people and separate yourselves and be alone.
And then God would be pleased if you have those kind of rules and are separate from the world.
And that's really what they do. It's a very strong religion. And some people would call it a cult
because they fit the definition of a cult because of the control that they have, especially the
old order. I come from a very old order conservative group where they very much taught us that if you
are born and raised Amish, there's no way you could ever get to heaven and please God if you don't
remain Amish for the rest of your life, especially since God allowed you to be born Amish.
Oh, wow. Okay. That's interesting. I wonder,
so do they have like, do they consider the Bible as the authority, like the word of God,
or do they have other texts as well that they use?
They will always answer outsiders back to say, yes, we do use the Bible. The Bible is our final
authority. One thing most people don't know is those articles of faith that I mentioned earlier
that was written by Jacob Amin. And so that is actually number one over the Bible. They do cherry
pick the Bible. I call it cherry picking because they do base some of it on scripture, but they
believe that if you follow those articles of faith and then they use the Ten Commandment that says
honor your father and your mother, so they're very big on honoring your forefathers. So since
Jacob Amin passed that down, they believe you must respect and honor those forefathers and
continue in those rules in order to get to heaven. So they use some Bible, but they do definitely
not use just the Bible and make it their final authority because they have other things they
add on to it. Yeah. Okay. Okay. That makes sense. All right. So with, so how does like the Amish
church differ from like, and just a regular Christian church? Like, I know that you don't
use electricity or you do maybe, but what does the Amish in general? I know that there are
different sects, but is it a rejection of like worldly things past a certain date or is it?
Yes. Yeah. They actually reject all electricity. They don't have any vehicles. They have horse drawn
buggies, carriages, and they believe you should be completely opposite. Now back when they first
formed, obviously there was no electricity. There was no cars, but they still separated themselves
and wouldn't do the things that the rest of the world would do. They still made rules and guidelines
to be separate from the rest of the people and what they were doing. Let's say they were smoking
tobacco or chewing tobacco. They just wouldn't do those things because they said, that's what the
world, the people do. So as today, as of today, they just reject all modern day technology. They
say the phones, especially the smartphones, they really say that that is the most worldly thing you
could have as a computer or a smartphone. So anybody that does get busted with those type of
things, that's usually the most harsh punishment. Up to like six to eight weeks, they can put you
in the van, which is a shunning period in the Amish, but they very much believe that as long as they're
not accepting the electricity, the television, the smartphone, the cars, all of those things,
they believe that they reject all of those things, then they're not making themselves part of the
world. Interesting. Okay. So is there an emphasis on being part of the world morally, or is it mainly
just like physical objects? Like obviously you won't see an Amish person at a strip club or
something because that or whatever. But like, you know, do they, because I know that when I was
involved in church that they had, it was like a, it was a distinct line between being of the world,
but it was always about morality. It wasn't, it didn't have to do with, like we had everything,
you know, the gadgets and everything. In fact, we probably had more tech than the average person.
But it was always about morality. Is it like that with the Amish as well, or is it just mainly
to do with technology? Mainly the physical things, you know, that's why they have so many rules,
because they very much focus on the physical things, the things you can see with your eyeball.
They say the phone's bad, you know, all these things are bad. Now, they do talk about, you know,
the morals, you know, they believe that obviously you shouldn't have any sexual
immorality. They do not allow divorce, you know, all of those things are like an unforgivable sin
if you get a divorce, you know, stuff like that. So they do preach against that. But as far as
churches that are not Amish, it's quite different because the Old Order Amish, where I come from,
they don't have church buildings. They actually hold their church services in their own personal
homes. They move from one house to another, they move around. They don't believe it's even biblical
to have a building on a Sunday or a certain day to go worship. Interesting. Aunt Jer asked a question,
and it's on in the chat, they asked a question, do they use buttons or zippers? That depends on
from one community to another. Again, that they split off, they always go their own way. And every
time there's a split, they make their own rules. Now, we did have buttons in our particular group,
but I do know some very old conservative groups that don't. Okay. Wow. No buttons.
No, but what are zippers in your in your group? No, zippers were absolutely forbidden. They said
that since all of the world would use zippers, because that was a common thing. And they said
there was no way that you could please God and get into heaven if you have any zipper on a shirt or
a pants or or even a bag, they can't even have a bag was a zipper on it. Wow. Okay. Do they
I'm just picking your bank brain now. I know we want to get into your story, but I'm just fascinated
by it by this. Do you does the Amish church teach that that like about the tribulation or the end
times or that Jesus is going to return soon, those type of things? Or is that not something
that's not taught? They do teach that Jesus is going to come soon. They do believe that they
also teach that the end is near. They talk a lot about that. But as far as revelation and like
the tribulation and stuff like that, they don't really go into detail. They say those things are
not for us to know yet, but they do teach a lot about Revelation 13. They go into Revelation,
they talk a lot about the beast and this whole one world system and how the mark of the beast
and they say, you know, tattoos, numbers play into that. They use a lot of again, I'll go back
to the physical, the physical things you can see. They really look at the things they can see
their eyeball like tattoos and we were not allowed to have social security numbers, which is what in
America is when you start paying taxes and that's your identity. And so they don't even allow those
social security numbers or even brush your teeth, anything with a code or a number, because they
immediately believe that that is part of the beast system. So I'd say out of the entire book of
Revelation in the Bible, they cherry pick that chapter of 13 quite a bit. And even the smartphone
that I'm talking on with you right now, they would say that this smartphone is also a part of the
mark of the beast. Right. Okay. Interesting. This is probably my last question just before we get
into your story, but what is the translation of the Bible that is used for in the Amish?
They actually force as this is the old order Amish, I know some of the more new order Amish
that kind of branched off, they started using English written Bibles, but handed down from
Jacob Oman was a German translation. And the one that we had was the 1522 Martin Luther version.
And they believed since the 12 articles of faith were written off of the Martin Luther 1522
version, that is why they strictly enforce that in my particular Amish church, they actually
strictly forbid using any English written Bible. They say that any other translation outside of
that is being used by the devil to try to deceive them away from the truth. So they wouldn't,
they will actually be willing to cut any other Bible up and burn them. They have no problem with
that because they believe that it's demonic and of the devil. So yeah, I actually got a video here
soon that I'm going to share on my social media where one of us, our former Amish buddies actually
was on a construction site and caught some of the Amish actually taking cases and cases of Bibles
and cutting them up and burning them because they were not the Martin Luther Bible.
Wow. So what would happen if you had like older manuscripts that weren't in German that were in,
you know, written in Greek, would they be more authoritative, even though they were what was
used to translate into the German? Or is that seen as... To answer that question, I will tell you my
personal experience. I was trying to make a case with the Amish Bishop in my community not long
ago when I visited him. And I was going into like the Hebrew and Greek texts way before the Amish
ever existed. And I didn't get very far into that conversation. And he said, I will not allow the
devil to use you to try to persuade me away from the truth. They usually cut, especially the very
old order conservative Amish, they will cut you off. They will put the hammer down. And I tried to
then just kind of smile and still be friendly with him, just to see if I can continue talking.
But as soon as I started talking about how I put my faith in Christ, because of what the Bible
says, he said, get off of my property. So even if you go into those earlier texts, they just want
nothing, especially the strict ones. The new order Amish, I'm just blessed to see that they're
starting to be more open. But these old order, I'm telling you, they are just there. They're a group
that they believe they are right and everybody else is wrong. And therefore, you really cannot
reason with them. Actually, new order and old order Amish all keep that tradition. You only go
to eighth grade. Now, again, I'll go to the strict ones where I'm from. By not educating you properly,
we didn't know a lot of things. We didn't know the dangers of things. I didn't know the history.
I didn't know that all of these other nations, you know, Australia, Germany, you know, mentioned
all those other countries outside the United States, I was never taught those things. We only
went to eighth grade. We just learned about Amish stuff. We just learned about construction,
how to build a house, how to build a barn. I'm imagining you don't also learn. You don't get
taught evolution or quantum mechanics in Amish schools. I mean, that's probably where you're
from. It's probably not doesn't get taught much at all anyway. But yeah, you're in the Bible Belt,
right? I don't know the US very well. Is Ohio in the Bible Belt or is it not?
I'm not sure about the Bible Belt, but Ohio would be about the center, like
Northern, just above us would be Michigan, and then you got Canada. So we're like in the
northern part of it. Okay, okay, okay. All right, I was just saying, but okay, that makes sense.
Yeah, so that so is it mainly just Amish stuff? Do you learn history or science and things like
that? Some of them do. If it is, it's very little. I remember we were taught about like the United
States, and we had to try to memorize every state, you know, we live in Ohio. So like, you know,
Virginia, West Virginia, Michigan, all the states. So they taught us a little bit about our country.
But you know, civil wars, World War One, World War Two, how bit, you know, the round ball, the
earth with all these other, I didn't know none of those things. So when I left, I was like,
wow, the world is so big. Well, so did you think that the earth was flat at that time?
When you were in the Amish? Oh, yeah, yeah, the whole time growing up, I thought it was definitely
flat. Oh, wow, okay. Do you believe it's flat now? Do you believe it's a globe now?
No, it's a round ball. Hey, you have to ask these days, there's a big flat earth community online.
Amish, all Amish, no matter what order they are, they all do business with outsiders. They do
construction for them. They do, they sell, buy, sell, trade. They're always doing business. You
know, we milked a lot of cows, and we would sell a lot of that milk to the non Amish milk stations
to make cheese. So there was constantly English folks around us. So I was able to make friends
with a couple of them. There was also a pallet factory where they made wooden pallets just right
next to our Amish farm. So that there's where I met my buddy that was willing to help me leave
the Amish because I would always go and speak with him about my problems and let him know when I was
in upper teenage years. And then that's, that's how I really was able to escape because if it wasn't
for anybody willing outside the Amish to help me and plan my escape, that was just no way that,
and that's also one of the reasons why there's very few women that leave out of my Amish community,
because the women are not out in the workforce. The women are in the house, they're cooking,
they're cleaning. All of our clothes were homemade. They made all of our clothes. And so
cooking, canning, you know, the vegetables, gardening, all of that stuff. So the women really
don't have that opportunity if they ever had thoughts that may be leaving. And that's why my
community, I'd say there's over 100 guys now left and one female so far. Wow. Did your community
practice rum springa? I think that's that season that I mentioned earlier. That is the rum springa
is the German word for running around. It's it's running a season from the Amish that practice
that usually do that from about age 16 through 18. And my Amish community does not even fellowship
or have anything to do with those Amish that practice that because they say, why would you
let your youngsters go experience the world, the evil people, because you got to protect the Amish
religion. So my group would not allow that. But that's what rum springa is. It's a season of
going out and basically sewing your wild oats and party and experience the world.
Yeah, I always found that that idea funny, because it's kind of like,
it's like sinning, I guess, for a little while, like it seems funny with me. Our marriage is arranged.
No, the marriages are not arranged. But in my group, we had to stay in our church in our Amish
community. You had to stay in that group. Now, if there are other churches that we were affiliated
with with the similar rules, ordinances, you could date somebody and get married with some other
church that has the same rules, the same church ordinance, but they didn't want you to go outside
of that. So they didn't necessarily arrange and say, hey, this is the woman for you. You got to
marry this one. It wasn't like that, but they wanted you to stay in that church district,
even if it was your cousin. In my particular group, you couldn't marry a cousin.
That was going to be my next question. Is that you can marry cousins? Was it frowned upon or was
it just totally a-okay? No, because of their small communities where you're related to mostly
everybody, they're completely fine with it. Usually, second cousins is what they want you to do,
but several times, it was first cousins. My own twin brother, he married his wife,
and she never had to change her last name. It was Yoder.
Is there, I'm not sure about this, but I'm not sure, but is there any chance of
deformed births with having babies with your cousin? Is there a chance of that?
It was actually very, very rare, to be honest with you. In my community, I remember of two
Down syndrome, mentally challenged, where you would think it would be higher because of
that kind of whatever you want to call it, inbreeding or whatever. So there is actually very,
very little that I saw. I only remember two the entire time I was growing up until I left the
Amish at 18. And they, of course, they took care of those themselves in the Amish homes until they
passed away. The one didn't live past 20 years old, I don't think. My wife and I are currently,
we went through IVF and we're about to have our first baby. And just learning so much about
birth and labor and everything, I'm curious, what is a labor like for someone in your old
Amish community? Do you guys go to a hospital or is it all at home? Yeah, it's all at home.
All 10 of us siblings were all born at home naturally. We never went to a single hospital.
Some of the other Amish groups in the state of Ohio have went to hospitals that are more open to
that. But I can tell you that in my group, very old order, it really sunk in when I went out to
the Amish cemetery and saw all of those stones that had the couple's names, the married couple's
names. And then it said the name of the stillborn baby, stillborn, stillborn, stillborn,
all the way down through there. And that showed me why they say you should always trust God and
give it to God. And if the newborn baby don't live, it was God's will and they just go bury it.
So it's all natural, all at home, never went to the... In my family, my mom, there's two sets of
twins. My mom never knew when it was twins. She never knew if it was a boy or a girl until
birth. And they do have midwives, what is called a midwife, where they come over and they help my
father deliver. They're more educated, they've done it for a while, and they try to educate
other women that are married. And they're the only ones that are allowed to participate in that,
because anybody that is not married is not supposed to have any sex education. They're not
supposed to know any of those things where babies even come from. Wow, okay. Yeah, that's sad about
the stillbirths and that. So back to you first leaving the Amish. Do you remember the day that
you actually left? Oh yeah, I remember that. I'll never forget that day. It was October 11, 1998,
because that was the day of freedom. So what else about that? What was that like?
