...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
Welcome to Deep Drinks Podcast
where the drinks are deep and the conversations are deeper.
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
Eli escaped the Amish church when he was 18 years old and spent a long time learning to forgive the people and things that hurt him in the past
Eli is now a passionate Christian known by some as the preaching truck driver when Eli isn't making tiktoks
He is part of the team at Amish rescue mission
Which aims to help educate Amish children between good touch and bad touch as well as offering counseling and support for those who
Of the Amish church
Who the Amish church has hurt in the past offer and also offering safe houses for those who want to leave without I like to welcome
Very special guest Eli Yodas
Thank you very much for having me on
So
Thank you for coming on. It's you've just got off. You literally just got off work
Yeah, and yes came in the door when I text you
Very excited for this interview because your story is absolutely fascinating and I can't wait to learn more about the Amish and also
If anyone has any questions feel free to ask them anytime throughout and we'll try to get to them
We're gonna treat the stream is a bit of a casual stream as if we're two friends catching up at a bar drinking some mountain Jew
That's what we're drinking up. Isn't that so do you have a story behind this?
Behind this drink
Yes, yeah, I mean growing up in the Amish
We were not not allowed to have those worldly kind of drinks and we were not supposed to have a lot of sugary
items, you know candy and soda pop and so
We got our hands on one one day from a non Amish friend that stopped by and it was just one can
It was not a bottle like this
But it was like a short metal can and I remember mom was saying hey
You got to really take it easy and make sure you share with all your brothers now
This is one can and there's there's ten of us kids
And we're passing this thing around and I remember just taking a small sip before I passed it around and I was hoping
It would make it back to me because I would call it that that sweet English aroma
That's awesome, so and then when you left you got addicted to it, is that right pretty much yes, yeah
We actually a few times we actually have had what it was called a
Mountain Dew party where we would just you know, we drink Mountain Dew and just chat with one another and
That's so good
So I guess before we jump into your story
Maybe you could educate myself and the audience like what is the Amish and what's the difference maybe between new and old order Amish?
Can you give us like a rundown and what what is the Amish?
Yeah, well the Amish is a religious group and
Well, they really actually only existed 350 years in America
But because when they came over from Switzerland
They were called the Anabaptists and then off of the Anabaptists was a group called Mennonites
And there was a man named Meno Simmons and it's named the Mennonites are named after him
so thirdly came the Amish because there was a man by the name of Jacob Amon that
Really wanted to make it his own thing
He was kind of wanting to
Reject his own people and actually shun some of his own family and his parents and and got a group together to make it his own
So Jacob Amon Amish is named after Amon and that is how the Amish were birthed
And since then there has been just hundreds and hundreds of different splits because they have grown so much in size and
They they triple every 20 years they triple because of their large families
So because of the disagreements and because they are establishing their own rules
So usually they don't get along with all the rules as they get bigger and bigger and more people are in the communities
So that is why they have the splits and they totally believe in
Jacob Amon's articles of faith now those articles of faith were written with a lot of scripture and but rules it was
Workspace with a lot of rules. They believe that you should follow and then separate yourselves from the world
They believe that you should not have anything to do with any other people and
separate yourselves and be alone and then God would be pleased if you have those kind of rules and are separate from the world and
That that's really what they do. It's very it's a very
Strong religion and some people would call it a cult because they fit the definition of a cult because of the control that they have
Especially the old order. I come from a very old-order conservative group
Where they very much taught us that if you are born and raised Amish
There's no way you could ever get the heaven and please God if you don't remain Amish for the rest of your life
Especially since God allowed you to be born Amish. Oh
Wow, okay. That's interesting. I wonder
So do they have like do they consider the Bible as the authority like the word of word of God?
Or they have other texts as well that they use
They will always answer outsiders back to say yes, we do use the Bible
The Bible is our final authority one thing most people don't know is those
Articles of faith that I mentioned earlier that was written by Jacob. Um, and so that is actually number one
Over the Bible. They do cherry pick the Bible
I call it cherry picking because they do base some of it on scripture
But they believe that if you follow those articles of faith and then they use the 10 commandment that says honor your father and your mother
So they're very big on honoring your forefathers. So since Jacob almond passed that down
They believe you must respect and honor those forefathers and continue in those rules in order to get to heaven
So they they use some Bible
But they do definitely not use just the Bible and make it their final authority because they have other things they add on to it
Yeah, okay. Okay, that makes sense
All right, so so with so how does like in the Amish church differ from like
And just a regular Christian church like I know that you don't use electricity or or you do maybe but I don't
What what does the Amish in general? I know that there are different sex
But is it a rejection of like worldly things past a certain date or is it?
Yes, yeah, they actually reject all electricity. They don't have any vehicles
They have horse-drawn buggies
Carriages and they believe you should be completely opposite now back when they first formed obviously there was no electricity
There was no cars, but they still separated themselves and wouldn't do the things that the rest of the world would do
They still made rules and guidelines to be separate from the rest of the people and what they were doing
Let's say they were smoking tobacco or chewing tobacco
They just wouldn't do those things because they said that's what the world they people do so as to that as of today
They just reject all modern-day technology. They say the phones especially the smartphones
They they really say that that is the most worldly thing you could have as a computer or a smartphone
So anybody that does get busted with those type of things. That's usually the most harsh punishment
Up to like six to eight weeks. They can put you in the band
Which is a shunning period in the Amish, but they very much believe that as long as they're not
Accepting the electricity the television the smartphone the cars all of those things
They believe that they reject all of those things then they're not making themselves part of the world
Interesting interesting. Okay, so is there
Is there an emphasis on being part of the world?
Morally or is it mainly just like physical objects?
like obviously you won't see an
Amish person at a strip club or something because that or whatever but but like, you know, did they
because I
Know that when I was involved in church that they had it was like a it was a distinct line between
Being of the world, but it was always about morality. It wasn't and it didn't have to do with like we had everything
You know the gadgets and everything
We in fact, we probably had more tech than the average
Average person, but we it was always about morality. Is it is it like that with the Amish as well?
Or is it just mainly to do with?
Technology
Yeah, mainly the physical things, you know, that's why they have so many rules because they very much focus on the physical things
The things you can see with with your eyeball. They say the phones bad, you know, all these things are bad
Now they do talk about, you know, the morals, you know, they believe that obviously you shouldn't have any sexual immorality
They do not allow divorce, you know, all of those things are like an unforgivable sin
If you get a divorce, you know stuff like that
So they do preach against that but as far as as churches that are not Amish
It's quite different because the old order Amish where I come from they don't have church buildings
They actually hold their church services in their own personal homes. They move from one house to another they move around
They don't believe it's even biblical to have a building on a Sunday or a certain day to go worship
Interesting aren't Joe asked a question. It's on in the chat. They asked a question. Do they use buttons or zippers?
That depends on from one community to another again that they split off
They always go their own way and every time there's a split they make their own rules
Now we did have buttons in our particular group, but I do know some
Okay
Wow, no buttons
No, but what are zippers in your in your group? No zippers were absolutely forbidden
They said that since all of the world would use zippers because that was a common thing
They said there was no way that you could please God and get into heaven
If you have any zipper on a shirt or a pants or or even a bag
They can't even have a bag was a zipper on it
Wow, okay. Do they I'm just picking your bank brain now
I know we want to get into your story, but I'm just fascinated by it by this
Do you
Does the Armistre church teach that?
That like about the tribulation or the end times
Or that Jesus is going to return soon those type of things or is that not something that's not taught
They did they do teach that Jesus is gonna come soon. They do believe that they do also teach that the end is near
They talk a lot about that but as far as revelation and like the tribulation and stuff like that
They don't really go into detail
They they say those things are not for us to know yet, but they do teach a lot about revelation 13
They go into revelation and they talk a lot about the beast and this whole one-world system and how the mark of the beast and
They say, you know tattoos
Numbers play into that they use a lot of again
I'll go back to the physical the physical things you can see they really look at the things they can see their eyeball like tattoos
And and we were not allowed to have
Social security numbers, which is what in America is when when you start paying taxes and that's your identity
And so they don't even allow those social security numbers or even brush your teeth anything with a code or a number
Because they immediately believe that that is part of the beast system
So I'd say out of the entire book of revelation in the Bible. They cherry pick that
Chapter of 13 quite a bit and even the smartphone that worked. I'm talking on with you right now
They would they would say that this smartphone is also a part of the mark of the beast
Right, okay
interesting
What and this is probably my last question just before we get into your story, but what is what is the?
Translation of the Bible that is used for in the Amish
They actually force
This is the old order Amish. I know some of the more new order Amish that kind of branched off
They started using English written Bibles, but
Hand it down from Jacob Amon was a German translation
And the one that we had was the 1522
Martin Luther version and they
Since the 12 articles of faith were written off of the Martin Luther
1522 version that is why they strictly enforce that in my particular Amish church
They actually strictly forbid using any English written Bible
They say that any other translation outside of that is being used by the devil to try to deceive them
Away from the troops so they wouldn't they will actually be willing to cut any other Bible up and burn them
They have no problem with that because they believe that it's demonic and of the devil
Yeah, I actually got a video here soon that I'm gonna share on my social media where one of us our former Amish
Buddies actually was on a construction site and caught some of the Amish actually taking cases and cases of Bibles and
Cutting them up and burning them because they were not the Martin Luther Bible
Wow, so what would happen if you had like older manuscripts that weren't in German that were in
You know written in Greek would they be more authoritarian
authoritative even though they were what was used to translate into the
into the
German or is that seen as to answer that question? I will tell you my personal experience
I was trying to make a case with the Amish Bishop in my community not long ago when I visited him and I was going into like the
Hebrew and Greek texts way before the Amish ever ever existed and I didn't get very far in
Into that conversation and he said I will not allow the devil to use you to try to persuade me away from the truth
They usually cut especially the very old-order conservative Amish. They will cut you off
They will put the hammer down and and I tried to then just kind of smile and still be friendly with him
Just to see if I can continue talking but as soon as I started talking about how I put my faith in Christ
Because of what the Bible says he said get off of my property. So
into those earlier texts
They just want nothing especially the strict ones the new order Amish
I'm just blessed to see that they're starting to be more open, but these old-order. I'm telling you they are just there
They're a group that they believe they are right and everybody else is wrong and therefore you really cannot really reason with them
Right, okay. Wow. That's very interesting. So, okay, that gives everyone a good
Update and gives me a good update of what the Amish are like
Broadly, of course, we're not talking about all Amish, but could you tell us a little bit about your story growing up in Kenton, Ohio?
Yeah, yeah, Kenton, Ohio was formed in in the 1950s early 1950s
And my grandfather was actually the very first family to move in he became the bishop
And he was one of the most they say still today that he was one of the most staunch religious Amish bishops
known in America because of his
Stance on standing firm the first rules that he made those can never be changed
He was standing firm on those if anything changed he would get more strict rather than ever becoming more lenient
So one thing that stands out to me in my community is kind of like what I call a generational curse
There's many things that happen for many generations like physical abuse
I saw a lot of physical abuse on me and Mike my brothers my siblings and also my mother
I saw my mother sometimes being strangled where she was blue in the face wasn't moving and that was something that I
Was able to find out through my grandma which is my dad's mom
She left the Amish when my dad was just a little kid and I heard nothing but bad things about her
But when I left the Amish, I was on a desperate search to find her and I within two years
I found her in the state of Florida and when I found her that's when I got a good insight of
Why my dad was the way he was because he also was treated that way
So what stands out to me is there was many many generations where these things were happening
You know even depression and depression was very rampant and you know anger and rage and all of those things because
They really didn't get the proper help
They didn't have those like outside counseling and rehab places where they would allow you to go to to get help if you have these issues
So I I saw a lot of that stuff growing up in my community not just in my family, but other families as well
But they didn't believe in getting help from the worldly people
They thought those are the people that are of the world. So you shouldn't go call them even if there's a crime
You're not supposed to call the law you call the police
Because those are the world they bad people so they they really just kind of kept it in the church
So now I'd say that's why my community had you know much more bad stuff that I saw growing up
Then maybe some of the other Amish communities
Yeah, I I
I
See that's a big thing in a lot of churches actually where because if if you consider yourself if you consider your like
Your group is like the moral authority like at least you're the ones who are doing the right thing and then you know
You course you look down at like the police and stuff because they're not in the same group as you
So it's it's actually quite an easy way to think that and of course
It's quite quite easy to think that I can see and and being in part of a really
Recluse society like the Amish it would be it would be I can see how that would become a big problem or yeah
so, but you grew up in a large family is that right like
many brothers and sisters and
Yeah, in my family, there was ten of us
But that was kind of low the average was usually around 15 and my grandfather my dad's dad actually came from a family of 20 kids
Wow all
20 kids and that was 10 plus kids
So the one day when I was trying to add everything up
I realized pretty quickly that I had over
3000 second and third cousins and when it came down to just first cousins
I actually had
385 first cousins
That's so so you can visit you can almost visit a new one every day of the week every day of the year and
We almost take you a year to get through all of your right
There was enough of us former Amish now where we decided to have a yoda reunion on my side of the family
And I remember we were laughing and just kind of got a kick out of it because
When we got there and we tried to get the word out on social media
We didn't realize that that many had left the Amish, but just the former Amish that had left the Amish
There was 150 of us
Wow, that's amazing so I
remember you mentioned on one of your live streams that
The a part of I guess your testimony starts with your grandmother actually leaving the Amish so
Can you can you explain how that's relevant to your story?
Yes, yeah, my grandmother she left the Amish obviously before I was born my dad was still very young and
So the reason I went in search of her is because I wanted to hear I'm a type of person
I want to hear both sides of the story not just one
So growing up if somebody leaves the Amish culture the Amish faith
They are looked at as given over to Satan. They're now of the world that they can't please God
They're not gonna go to heaven. So for that reason I heard nothing but bad things about my grandmother
It was so negative, you know, she gave herself over to the devil and she was bad to my grandpa
I'll just all of those stories. So when I found her I found it very interesting to listen to her side of the story and how
There was sexual abuse. There was physical abuse and there was so many things happening where she wanted to say something to the church and
In the Amish religion, they do not give the women any voice. The women are silenced in the church
They are not to speak in the church
You must consult your husband the man at home
And so when she tried to say something to the church about this abuse from my grandpa
Then they just didn't believe her
They would have believed her if he would have confessed like he's supposed to but she was telling me how he would deny all of those things
You know, they get a maid when a baby is born. So when my dad was born
She would tell me how their niece came over to be the maid to help out at the time because of the newborn and
Then she found him
Doing a sexual act with the niece. So now you're talking about incest
So she tried to bring that up to the church and he won in that case. He said no, she's making this up
She's unruly. She's a bad wife. And so the Amish got to where they actually punished her for lying
They was not buying her side of the story. So she got to the point where she was so upset and so angry
She says I'm not gonna stay here and keep putting up with this
Very few women would ever be bold enough to do what my grandmother did and that is to just put an end to it
and she got a hold of some outside people outside the Amish community and just secretly planned to leave and
That is another thing that my dad obviously struggled with growing up because he was very little
He couldn't understand why mom just disappeared
But she just took off and vanished into thin air and nobody knew what happened
But the church obviously realized pretty quickly that she had left because she was not gonna tolerate this stuff
But then they definitely blamed her. They said, oh now she's definitely guilty. She's definitely running from her problems
She don't want to get caught. And so they obviously used that as she is the guilty one and that's why she left the Amish and ran away
Yeah, right because you could she could never been seen as a
As like righteous leaving that the situation because she's leaving the Amish
So that that sent your dad into like a depression, right? And
and then he kind of
continued the circle of abuse for a while and
Yeah, he
My grandfather actually and I was so blessed to have known this information when I left the Amish because growing up Amish
I always saw my grandpa being single
But he always had this chai of practice
Care that he did and every time we were there and he had a patient
It was always a woman and I always look back and I thought why did he always have
Women only like he was always you want to look up their dresses and just he was a
What I would now call as a sexual predator did be honest with you because he was just doing this
practice to try to fulfill his own sexual desires and
After speaking to grandma that is when it started all making sense now my dad
he had obviously been beaten as well physically and
He was trying to make sense of some of that as well
So my dad growing up was doing the same thing to us, you know, we saw some pretty severe physical abuse
But my father was was probably the most depressed person I've ever known on the face of this earth because he was he was
Hurting in here. He was in pain trying to figure everything out. He was trying to sort everything out. So
He actually at a very the earliest memories. I have I remember my dad being ex-communicated from the Amish Church because
He went to alcohol to try to numb the pain the stuff that he was dealing with
So his depression and his alcohol and everything the church didn't help him through that. They started really kind of
Excommunicating him for long periods of time and they said, you know, you just don't want to repent. You're not turning from the alcohol
You're not turning from you know being depressed and he had all these problems, but they didn't know how to help
Yeah
Is there anything they could could do in there like obviously, I don't know what your perspective on depression is but
You know, how could the Amish help in that situation like what could they have done anything like what was their advice?
Well, usually in situations like that
They they sit down and they try to just fellowship and talk and say hey, we're here to listen
They do kind of the count counselor mentality. I should say but it's not professional counseling
It's what it's not to where they put you on a medication and try to help you through that depression and try to get a better
Understanding may get maybe get together and pray for you that those things were not happening and so
By adding weeks and weeks and weeks of punishment and putting him in the band
Ashley drove my dad even more crazy. He went even into more deeper alcoholism
So I would probably say half of the time growing up in my Amish home
My dad had to he was shunned and he would had to eat separately
We always saw dad like this little table over in a corner of the kitchen
Where he was eating separately because when you're baptized as a church member and you break the rules like drinking alcohol like my dad was
The other baptized church members like my mother she could not eat at the same table. She can't hand him something
She can't hand her a plate or anything like that. So you're not even eat with someone who calls himself a believer but lives. Yeah, yes
Yeah, she was very much following the church rules right to a tee because her dad
My grandpa was the bishop. So she very much wanted to please her daddy of the bishop
Of course, of course
so
eventually
You told this story. I want to I wonder if you can be happy to talk about it, but you talked about this time
with Elvin your brother
When you're on top of a silo
And your father was
Was was a beating him with a two by four. Is it right? Yes. Yeah, we there's many different
Times where I saw my dad physically beating on one of my siblings
But that one there what was probably the one that stood out
I could never get that out of my head because I was up in the silo trying to feed the cows
Throw some silage down and we had just filled it up almost all the way to the rim
So I'm way up at the top of this thing
And it was nothing new to really hear dad yelling and one of my brothers yelling and they're packing forth and and then
Hear it hearing dad that beating them and then hearing them crying
But this particular day I could hear the sound of my brother Elvin kind of
The breath went out of him like that that that grown where this is not normal
So I look over the side of the silo and I could see him my father
Obviously had been drinking and he had a two by four in his hand and he was he was just wailing on him and
What stood out to me is it almost seemed like he was wanting to kill him or something like an animal
You know just whacking him right over the head and I remember I
Just had to do something so I went flying down the silo so fast
I mean within seconds I was at the bottom so I would yell really loud to try to distract my father
Now that that would be a bad thing normally because I knew he would chase me and he did
But it was worth it because I wanted him to turn on to me so that hopefully I can save my brother Elvin's life
Which I did he was unconscious for a while
He was hurt pretty bad
But I was able to distract my father and then he came running after me and I went up into the hay loft in the barn
And was able to hide somewhere and got away from it
Yeah, I know that when I was listening to your story. I actually
You'd actually brought back some stuff for me because when I was younger my mom was in an abusive relationship for a little while
and
She used to get a beating up a lot and I remember I remember
There was a specific night that that that I just I woke up from it and I could I could I could tell it was different
Anyway, I scared I jumped out the window and we went to a neighbor's house at like two in the morning called the police and stuff
but I
know that feeling of like oh
Like oh, they're arguing like just it is, you know another argument. Okay, like for me
I was like all right
I'll roll over go back to sleep like try and sleep through it or whatever
But but then there was that moment of like no no this this feels different this feels like like I need to intervene here
And to get help I know that and that really that really that really touched me
When I heard that part of your story because I could relate to it obviously not to the same degree, but
but so you
Would have grown sorry you would have
You would have grew up
You would have grown up. Sorry fearing your father a lot. Is that right? Yeah, most especially my younger years
We feared him all of not just me but all of my brothers
We we feared him to the point where we would take a different route around the barn or not take the same path because
Well, we never really knew when he would snap and especially when he was drinking
we would avoid him the best we could because
We just never knew what was going to happen and you know, especially mom
We want to defend mom
Sometimes what we were too young until we got up in our teenage years. We couldn't really do anything
Here's another thing that I want to point out if we would have just known that you could call the law
You know, we're in a secretive little Amish religion and you don't know that there is this law enforcement the police officers
That, you know, we look we viewed them as dangerous bad people because of what we were taught
And if we would have known hey, we could run to the to the outside people and call 911 and and dad would get arrested
We didn't know that at a young age. So we're sitting there
We're believing that the Amish lifestyle is what it's right because that was what we were taught
So, you know, it was up to the church to try to do something about it
And obviously they didn't have the right resources in place to help him
So it got to the where it just spirals spiraled out of control where the abuse on mom was so bad that sometimes
I thought she was dead. I mean she was unconscious. I don't know how many times one time
She actually locked herself into the bedroom and he couldn't get in and she used the deadbolt
And then he came in the house and he had the sledgehammer in his hand
And then he just beat the door down and everything broke the pieces and he still went in there and dragged her out of there
So it was just no stopping him
There was like no limits and but when we did get older up into the teenage years
There was a few times where we use clubs like four or four or five of us boys use clubs and bats and
Broom handles and we were able to one night when he was very drunk. We stopped him from beating mom
We actually beat him down to where he wasn't moving
Right
What what a absolutely harsh living situation to grow up in
That's that's brutal. So it makes sense
You mentioned actually that if you if you probably still be Amish if you grew up in a loving
You know
Environment are you glad though that you're not Amish? Are you like are you happy that that you're out and that you can drink?
Mountain Dew and things like that. Yes. Yeah, I enjoy my freedom. I have never regretted leaving. I
Do believe it would have been much better
I probably would not have been tempted to leave the Amish if it would have been in a different environment different family
Maybe different Amish community with less rules, but I still believe the way I the way I am
I think because I'm not very good at letting people have power and control over me and have rules in place
So I think I probably still would have left even a different community so I could have you know, the Mountain Dew
It's all about the Mountain Dew
So at what stage like what stage did you start thinking like I can't do this
I'm going to leave the Amish church and what was like
Did you think at that time that you were leaving your family as well or like what is that? What is that process mentally like? I
Knew I wanted to leave as early as 12 that I remember having thoughts of wanting to eliminate myself from this family and this life at
H12 I didn't know what that looked like. I didn't know how would ever even do that
But as the years played out and I turned into 15 16 years old
Then I was ready to attend something
Even though I was taught that you would just go to hell
There's no way God would be happy with you could never make it to heaven heaven if you left the Amish
I still was at the point where I thought well hell would certainly be better than what I'm going through here
So at age 16, I tried to leave and I got caught so I got beat
severely for that because I
Attended to leave and nobody from the outside really wanted to help because I was underage. I was a juvenile
I wasn't 18 yet. So at one point and I knew I wanted to leave. I just felt like it was impossible now
To ever leave so at one point I knew I was gonna get beat for this
But I actually took my rifle and I went back into a wooded area
We had a nice large wooded area two different woods that we had and I just went in the middle and make myself a
makeshift tent with some with some boards and cut down some trees and and I had my dog with me and
I would I would hunt and live off the land
You know, I had a creek there to drink water and I could shoot and kill my own animals and survive
And I did that for about two weeks. That was my happiest time all along
Nobody yelling at me. Nobody beating on me. I had food. I had water. I was I was at peace
All by myself that might sound lonely to some people
But that was my happy moment. That was my peace by just being alone and having nobody bothering me
And I was I was able to survive and I was happy but I knew
When whenever I do go back home
It was gonna be severe
I probably wouldn't gonna be able to sit for a month because I'm gonna get beat and that's exactly what happened
Well, how old were you when you run off into the woods to do that?
That was right when I attempted at 16 to try and run away. So
I I believe that was either 15 or 16 because I was right at the time where I felt I felt almost like
Trap like there's just no way now. I would be able to leave. So I just wanted to have I thought a couple weeks in
The middle of the woods away from everybody would be worth a beating
I just wanted peace for a couple weeks and then when they find out that that I had tried to escape or wherever
I was at then I would just take the discipline and deal with it
And that's that's why I did that because I just really didn't think I knew I had to wait until I was 18
Cuz I had some non-armish friends that said hey when you turn 18 then I can legally give you a home by law
I can take you in so I'm like, oh wow man. That's so far away
You know, I just I just felt like man
I want to leave now and I just want to escape all of this and and so yeah
I was a wreck for a while just trying to figure out how I could just eliminate everything
Wow, that must have been
How did you how far into the woods? Did you go when you when you when you left?
Oh, I was pretty good. I was like an Indian
I could go back into the woods very far and I had no fear. I knew how to survive. I would say in about a hundred acre woods
I was probably about center. I was way deep in there
Wow, could you is there anything left there? Like what if you went back there?
Could you like find the spot that you stayed or is it not really?
I used to go back and find the spot many a different times even after that because I used to
That was that became my my comfort zone
Like in the past after that I would go revisit that that area when I saw where I had my boards and they had the leaves for
When it would fit rain or whatever and that became like if I was if I was depressed
If I was going through some things instead of running to a human for comfort. That was my spot. That's where I would go
Wow, that's that's actually I'd love to see if you ever make it back out there again. That's a great tiktok idea
I'd love to watch that tiktok which reminds me I will promote it later
But you have an amazing tiktok that we answer every in every which question. So
So
So when you actually big when you actually decided to be what happened when you actually decided to leave when you were 18
How did that come about?
well, obviously in my particular dream of conservative older Amish you cannot make that known because
Some of the Amish in America have a season where you can go explore the world in the very old order
We didn't we don't have that option. So you're told and if they catch you there's some pretty harsh consequences
You know, they'll ship you off even to other Amish communities that they're affiliated with and they'll make you sometimes for a long period of
Time six months to a year where they try to reprogram your thinking if you got caught trying to escape or leave the Amish faith into the world
So I knew for that very reason that I better not make it known
So I would continually try to speak to some of my non Amish friends
We call it everybody else English that is outside the Amish. So my English friends were
Willing to help me and they told me and I trusted them that when I turned 18 that that they would help me and you know
Pick me up and get me out of there. So I obviously planned all of this completely secret and I guess some of the
Some of some of the signs I guess I didn't know I was doing it
But mom could tell that I was mom's know everything like she knew that I was
Different I was acting a little different. I guess is what she said
So I was laying there that morning before I left
And I had just turned 18 and she came up
I had my head buried underneath the covers and my Amish mother just told me she said
If you are leaving and giving yourself over to the world
She says you are not welcomed out here for any of the other siblings to see you in the worldly clothing
She says if you do come visit you can
But you have to have your Amish clothes on you got to have a hat on to cover up
You know world a haircut and all of that and she said you cannot drive a vehicle a worldly car in here
You must park it somewhere and walk so she put some rules in place
Thinking that I was leaving and I remember thinking
How does she know that
Something triggered her off where she it tipped her off where I might not have been acting right
She gets see like mom's just know that but I remember how surprised I was because I had nobody had asked me if I was even leaving at that time
But I had secretly planned it and of course I was 18 and I knew that my English friends told me that at age 18 by law
I can make my own decisions
I can speak for myself because the Amish adult is not until 21
We couldn't have our own money until we're 21. You don't get married until you're 21
so I
Started learning that I have rights at age 18 if I escape and get out of the Amish
So I knew that they would they would be willing to pick me up and that's what happens
So they picked me up and I left and of course I waited quite a while before I went out because I knew there was rules
I had to wear my Amish clothes, so I waited a while before I went back out to visit anyway
Wow
I've got a couple
Sorry, I've got a couple of questions one from D
How did you meet the communities with uh with English friends?
How do you meet people?
And communicate with his English friends
Uh, Amish all Amish no matter what order they are they all do business with
Outsiders, uh, they do construction for them. They do they sell buy sell trade
They are they're always doing business, you know
We milked a lot of cows and we would sell a lot of that milk to the non-Amish milk stations to make cheese
So there was constantly English folks around us
So I was able to make friends with a couple of them
There was also a pallet factory where they made wooden pallets just right next to our Amish farm
so
That there's where I met my buddy that was willing to help me leave the Amish because I would always go and speak with him about my problems
And let him know when I was in upper teenage years
And then that's that's how I really was able to escape because if it wasn't for anybody willing
Outside the Amish to help me and and plan my escape
That was just no way that and that's also one of the reasons why
There's very few women that leave out of my Amish community because the women are not out in the workforce
The women are in the house. They're cooking. They're cleaning all of our clothes were homemade. They made all of our clothes and so
Cooking canning, you know the vegetables gardening all of that stuff
So the women really don't have that opportunity if they ever had thoughts that may be leaving and that's why my community
I'd say there's over a hundred guys now left and one female so far
Wow
uh
Did your community practice a rum springer?
I think that's that season that I mentioned earlier. That is the rum springer is
The the german word for running around
It's it's running a season from the Amish that practice that usually do that from about age 16
through 18
And my Amish community do does not even fellowship or have anything to do with those Amish that practice that because they say
Why would you let your youngsters go experience the world the evil people?
Because you got to protect the Amish religion. So my group would not allow that but that's what rum spring is
It's a season of going out and basically sowing your wild oats and party and experience the world
Yeah, I I always found that that idea funny. Um, because it's kind of like
It's like sinning I guess for a little while like it seems funny with me. Um, our marriage is arranged
No, the the marriages are not arranged but
in in my group we had to stay in our
Church in our Amish community
You had to stay in that group now if there are other churches that we were affiliated with with the similar rules ordinances
You could date somebody and get married with some other church that has the same
Rules the same church ordinance, but they didn't want you to go outside of that
So they didn't necessarily arrange and say hey, you got it. This is the woman for you. You got to marry this one
It wasn't like that, but they wanted you to stay in that church district
Even if it was your cousin in my particular group, you couldn't marry a cousin
That that was going to be my next question is is that you can marry cousins? Is that was that was it frowned upon?
Or was it just totally a okay?
No because of their small communities where you're related to mostly everybody
They're completely fine with it. Usually second cousins is what they want you to do
But several times it was first cousins, you know my my own twin brother
He married his wife and she never had to change her last name. It was the odor
Okay
Is that uh, i'm not sure about this. Um, but like i'm not sure but is there any
chance of um
Deformed births with married like with having babies with your cousin
Is there chances of that?
It was actually very very rare to be honest with you in my community. I remember of two
Down syndrome mentally challenged where you would think it would be higher because of of that kind of uh, you know
Whatever you want to call it the inbreeding or whatever
So there there is actually very very little that I saw I only remember to the entire time
I was growing up until I left the Amish at 18 and they of course they took care of those
Themselves in the Amish homes until they passed away. The one didn't didn't live past like 20 years old. I don't think
My wife and I are currently
We we went through IVF and we're about to have our first baby. Um, and
Just learning so much about birth and labor and everything. I'm curious
What is a labor like for someone in your in the your old Amish community?
Do you guys go to a hospital or is it all at home?
Yeah, it's all at home. All 10 of us siblings were all born at home naturally. We never went to a single
Um hospital some of the other Amish groups in the state of Ohio have went to hospitals
They're more open to that but I can tell you that in in my group very old order
It really sunk in when I went out to the Amish cemetery and saw all of those stones that had the
The couple's names the married couple's names and then it said the name of the stillborn baby stillborn stillborn stillborn
stillborn all the way down through there and that showed me why
They say you should always trust God and give it to God and if if the newborn baby don't live
It was God's will they just go bury so it's all natural all at home never went to the
In my family my mom there's two sets of twins. My mom never knew when it was twins
She never knew if it was a boy or a girl until birth and they do have
Midwives what it's called a midwife where they come over and they help my father deliver
That they're they're more educated. They've done it for a while and they try to educate other women that are married
And they're the only ones that are allowed to participate in that because anybody that is not married
Is not supposed to have any sex education. They're not supposed to know any of those things where babies even come from
Wow, okay. Yeah, that's that's um
that's that's sad about the still stillbirths and
and uh that but um
so
Back to you first leaving the arm ish. Do you remember the day that you actually left?
Oh, yeah, I remember that I'll never forget that day. It was october 11 1998 because that was the day of freedom
Well, so what yeah else about that like what was that like?
Well, my heart was beating out. I was very nervous because I didn't want nothing to go wrong
And everybody was supposed to be going to church and I was trying to get up real early
I wanted to escape
And I started wondering is my english friend really going to show up, you know, and I knew I couldn't take a bunch of possessions
I just wanted to get my immediate belonging something I can carry just in a bag
And sure enough he was right on time. He parked down the road from our almas farm and I went running
I remember the freedom I felt as I was leaving and I wanted to look back
It was so weird because I was like
Why am I not looking back? Why am I not missing?
My family my home I could not look back
I I was running to freedom and when I got to that bagel
He turned the music on and I kicked back and I just felt the freedom and I just yeah, it was never
I never looked back. I never I just it was it was a day of freedom that I'll never forget the feeling
You know to to just be free
And it was just so comforting and I just I couldn't thank him enough that he actually did show up and pick me up
So it was a
It was an awesome day
The rest of them went to church because it was on a sunday where they would go to church and the rest of them all went to church
but
Two weeks before I was
Going to leave I was actually supposed to get baptized
In the amish church where you would make the oath
To follow the rules for rest of your life. That is a that oath is considered more severe
Of an oath than a marriage oath
But I had I wrote a bicycle
And got busted you're not our community was not allowed to have even a bicycle because that is way too worldly
So I took the neighbor's bike that didn't even have rubber tires on this thing was a
Raggedy old bicycle and I got busted with this thing and therefore I disqualified for amish baptism
That's that's really where where I knew I'm not going to tolerate this
I mean if a bike is too
But because the other amish and and I were not far from us had bikes and I'm thinking wait a minute
You're telling me that I can't please god
It's way too world to have a bike and I can't get baptized
But amish just up the road they have bicycles. So it just didn't make any sense
Wow
so
Wow, so
I just do you remember what music was playing when you were in the car?
In the radio the radio when you left leaving
Yeah, there was a George jones song on and and after that he was just flipping through some of the channels garth brook country
I'm still a big country fan
but not
I would say it was only just days
When I was out I heard this it's mainly for for girls for kids and it was called the spice girls
Oh, yeah, and I remember hearing that song and I mean it just tickled my amish years. I loved it
Yeah, when I was growing up, uh, that was
Everyone in my school loved the spice girls and I think that was one of my first um first bands. I ever liked the spice girls
Yeah, it's no good stuff. No good stuff. Um
I got a few more questions
D is just coming in with questions. Could women cut their hair or shave?
No, no our in our group of Amish. We were taught that you should always remain the way you are
Uh, that's why the the women were not allowed to shave at all
Uh, the the hair cutting was something that they have had probably since Jacob almond first started the Amish
Women could not cut their hair whatsoever. That is something that
Had to be untouched and then when they put the caps on they roll it up into a bun
And then they put the cap over that but if any woman it was so severe
If any woman got caught even touching their hair cutting their hair tampering with it
That that was such an unholy thing
That was probably the worst punishment a woman can get is if they cut their hair. They're just wasn't allowed to touch their hair at all
Wow, so their whole life they grow hair. How long does their hair get?
does it
Just before I left the Amish my sister. She was 12 years old my oldest sister and her hair went all the way to her ankles
Wow, wow
and so and
That no one can shave their legs or their armpits or anything like that. It's just wow. Okay
Um, that's interesting. What holidays do they celebrate?
Uh, they have different holidays some holidays of their own
Christmas is something that stands out to me because we're like almost a Christmas now, but they didn't believe that
December 25 would be
The the birthday of Jesus. So they believed it was two weeks
Later on January 6 and that is when they would celebrate Jesus's birthday, but it was no presents
It was no trees no lights no Santa Claus
It was fasting now
You wouldn't think there'd be a lot of food involved
But they did fasting and they did this this German prayer book that they have it's called the oshpund
I remember that and then they would they would literally do like
Rituals like that, you know where they would fast for a whole day and that's kind of how they celebrated that they did have
Thanksgiving where they had meals. They had some food. So that was very similar. They did Easter
They they believed that that was obviously the resurrection when Jesus rose from the grave
So they did also celebrate Easter
But as far as for the July independence they labored it all of the they they thought those were all pagan
They didn't do anything for those
Right and do the Amish have a traditional perspective of heaven and hell as in eternal paradise and eternal punishment
Yes, yes, they do believe that there is a hell and there is a heaven
And they believe that and it depends on which group, of course
My group believes that the only way Jesus would open the door
Maybe they don't they're not even sure of their salvation
They believe there's the only chance that you might get in through Christ
Is if you're Amish first and through that church
So what they do preach that there is a heaven and that there is a hell that is eternity and will never never end
Right, okay
interesting, uh, so, uh, you talked about seeing your father with your diary
What can you talk about that a little bit because you were writing in your diary? Was that is that right before you left?
Yes, yes, there was this, uh
Non-Amish lady that used to come out during the holidays and we didn't want to be rude
So we would receive whatever they would give us and one of them
Allowed us to have that
And I started writing down a lot kind of like I said earlier about the woods when I would just escape and go to my house
And go to my happy place
I started realizing wow, I can write my daily thoughts in this thing and just like
Pour it right onto these pages. And that's what I started doing
Roughly two and a half years that I did this before I left the Amish
So I'm just writing everything when I'm angry when I'm mad. I'm using german cuss words
And I'm I'm angry at dad this day and mom said this day and I got spanked and beat because my brother did this
And they couldn't prove who it was and I mean all of those things all my pains my hurts was poured out into these pages
so
When I left the Amish I went down to work with my buddy that picked me up which worked at that pallet place
And and I'm working there at that this pallet place with already non-Amish clothes on
And it was the day after I left and my dad came walking down there
And I just remember the gut feeling that I had when my father is standing there with his hand open
And he had my diary in his hand
I was like, oh, no, I should have took that
But I know
God didn't want me to take that he wanted my family to see
What was in that diary and I remember my dad couldn't hold back his tears
He started crying and I just looked at him like oh
I wish you didn't see all that bad stuff. I wrote about him, you know
But he needed to read it. He needed to see it and he did and he just came up
And he just said I know why you left the Amish
Because I was such a bad dad and I said no dad. I said the church the rules
I tried to blame everything else. Obviously, you know, some of the abuse and all of that had something to do with it
but
That was the first day. He actually looked at me and said
son
I do love you
See the Amish don't use in their dutch. It's a low german dialect
They don't use love in their vocabulary. So it's way too sexual to hug
Or to say I love you. That's a worldly sexual word
But that day when he said that
anyway
I knew that he was sorry that he felt bad
that
What had happened to me and all that he had put me through
And that is actually really when our relationship began because we secretly
Started because he was still drinking. He was still kind of an alcoholic and I would pick him up
And I didn't care if he was an alcoholic
I didn't care if he was drunk because I was starting to drink myself at that time because I was not Amish anymore
So we mean him started like secretly
Having a father-son relationship off and on when mom and the church didn't know about it
Wow
so
Yeah, that that must have been that must have been such a surreal feeling to
To your relationship to start as you're kind of leaving that world
What was your relationship like with your dad at that time like when you
When you's were you would catch up and he'd be drunk and you know
And you were out. Was it good or was it, you know, do you have still have problems or?
No, no, we actually didn't even discuss those bad days when it was bad. We discussed the good days because
When my dad was being shunned by the Amish church
He would always go to work
Drink and get drunk and my mom didn't like us brothers working with him for that very reason
But I would always bring up. Hey dad remember when we did this and we broke some Amish rules together
And you know, we would talk about that and laugh and giggle and joke
Yeah, the bishop didn't know we did that and and I could go into a few stories on some of the things
You know at one time he was drunk and took me on a plane ride and talked this English
Person into giving me and him an airplane ride and the church
went
And so it's so good one time he figured out how to start up a dirt bike and he wrote this dirt bike and crashed it and
wrecked it and he had to make it fight with me
So there was some heavy moments and we would talk about these moments, but you know
I got into some heavy drinking at that time and me and him drank together and of course sometimes mom and my older brothers
Would would discuss. Hey, why is he missing so late in the evenings and they started wondering where he's at
So there were some periods where I didn't hear from him for a while
But overall I would say that was the first time that me and my dad actually
Had a relationship to where I didn't have that like
Fear, you know, all of my life growing up. I didn't know when he was going to snap
I didn't know when it was going to be brutal, you know, maybe a beating and so now all at once I felt more like loved
I felt more secure around him without fearing him and so everything started clicking
Up to five years right at because I left in 1998 and by 2003
He had a back injury to where he stayed home on Sundays and he told me about that. So I would go out there
I had already met my wife
on the picture here and
so
My wife would go out with me and I'm glad she got to meet my father and we was
Just having a good time and then mom kind of suspected something and started leaving my younger brother at home on a sunday
When she went to church and that kind of ruined it. So he started sneaking out of the house and we started having a very good relationship
But then one day he said
You know, I think I'm gonna leave the Amish like you did and I thought wow, are you serious?
He said, yeah, I think I'm gonna leave the Amish like you did in
And I just thought well, it's just me. I'm just one son and he's got all the other siblings and mom
he's
Really, I didn't really want to believe it at first
But I thought man boy that that'd be pretty cool. And I also thought well
He is a severe alcoholic
That might be a problem. I probably have my hands full, but I was willing to overlook all of that
To just have a relationship with my father. I didn't really care how brutally it might be
How drunk he might be but I was willing to have my father and have a relationship with him
So he he he set a date. He set a date and he said this sunday and I believe it was uh, uh, be june
23rd 19 or 2003 it was five years after I left the Amish
And so on saturday 24 hours before I was supposed to pick him up
I'm all excited my wife's excited and we were in in a in a local town called limo, Ohio
And we were getting ready to get a bigger bigger vehicle like a suv with a third row seat
Because I wanted to make sure that I had a big enough vehicle to get dad where he needs to go and my wife can get him
You know help him get a job and get him to point a to point because he didn't he didn't have no license or nothing like that
So we are there at that car dealership
trying to make a deal
and
I get a phone call
And that was the most horrible news of my entire life
I got the news that my dad had took his own life
And
I remember they said that he the english people
Called 911 when they found him when he shot himself
And they called 911 and there was a helicopter that had
air lifted him
And I remember I was right there in lima by st. Rita's medical center
Anyway, only a few blocks away where the car dealership was and I remember looking up and I saw the helicopter landing
And I just knew that that was him
So I rushed over and I got there before any amish people got there and I signed paperwork
To do brain surgery because he was still alive
To do brain surgery to remove but the doctor I told the doctor to be honest with me and he was honest
He said there's just he's pretty well brain dead already. So there's just no
It's probably a barely a five percent chance that you know, he would pull through so
He was when they found him
He was alive with with obviously a really bad injury
But they they discussed how he was praying and he was you know saying hey lord, I'm so sorry
What I've done all of my life and he was confessing everything
But even though he did that the amish really felt like
This is an unforgivable sin, I guess because he did end his own life that they still go ahead
So he did he shoot himself and then was praying after he shot himself like he was still conscious
Yeah, because the amish don't have phones so it took a lot longer to get
The ambulance and and all of that the call 911
so
Because of that they they literally my rest of my family
I know I talked to two brothers that were on the scene and just some of the stuff that he's described
I'm not even going to discuss it on here. But yeah, what stands out to me is how
He was praying and they're hurting pray and he was literally
Confessing everything to Christ. He was confessing that he was wrong
He was confessing that in the center and he even asked God for forgiveness for what he had just done to his own brain
So he they hearing praying that you know that he's just really
Sorrowful and was feeling bad. But looking back. I will say this. I think my father was very very confused
Do I go after Eli Yoder my only son that is not Amish?
Because I love all the other 10 siblings too
It's got it had to have been very confusing
You know, do I go with my only son that's not Amish or or
And I figured he would
Because he sounded like he was going to because he wanted to be free
He wanted to be free from the depression and all of that and he knew if he came with me
I wouldn't let him drink. He's free to do whatever
So I thought that would be enough. But I guess, you know, he just maybe confusion over the years
I've obviously struggled with wow
What wonder if he would have done that if I if I didn't offer
Maybe maybe, you know me offering that to help him out. Maybe that caused but I stopped blaming myself
I'm not gonna go there because it was just one of those things that for many years
I couldn't figure it out and I used to sit out there
That's really when I became a severe alcoholic at that time because
I used to buy cases of beer and just sit out there
Lean up on my dad's tombstone and dump a whole bunch of beer down into the ground and I'd sit there and just drink
I remember one night my my wife and her friend was both with me
And they were bawling and walking away and they got in the car and left and I'm sitting there at the graveyard
Just crying and drinking with my dad and talking to my dad and afterwards what stands out to me is
my wife said
I left me and my friend left because
We can't watch you hurting like that
And I thought I was having a good time partying with my dad. She goes no, you don't understand
You need counseling. You need you need help. You're you're we can't see you like this. Then I realized I was hurting my wife
Through that I thought man, I I don't want to do what what my daddy
But it was my only at that time
It was my only way of trying to cope with with the pain of trying to understand and make sense of why this
This unfolded the way it did
Wow
um
that's
So that's that's incredible. Do you remember the moment that your father actually passed was it in a
Were you there when he passed or was he already dead when you arrived?
um
Yeah, he was still alive when when I arrived and signed the paperwork and then they obviously put that life support machine on him
which kept his
body alive
But he became brain dead
So that allowed all you know the word spread and all the Amish started showing up the Amish family started showing up and here
I'm there first, you know, but
But still they all started showing up and I'm you know, I don't have Amish clothes on at that time
So what is my mom? What is her dad the bishop and everybody else?
Oh Eli, you're gonna have to go get some Amish clothes or something. It's like
Really so I had to go get some other clothes on to please them
And then I also asked her I said now I signed the paperwork to do brain surgery on on my dad
And you know because you know, I'm trying to save his life
And they said well, we really don't we wouldn't have signed that, you know, we give it to god again
We we live that in god's hands. We would not sign that paperwork, but since you're not um
That that was up to you
So she didn't really condemn me for signing to do brain surgery right away
But she immediately dives in to tell me I should be wearing
Some Amish clothes so I went and did that just to make her happy and I came back
And then a few days later when enough of the Amish family was there
They decided to take him off of life support and I remember
as
As they were explaining that they're going to take the life support off of my father
They said the line the beeping sound is going to go straight and just and then you're going to know that
You know, that's it and I remember I was standing there and I had hold of my dad's hand and my mom
She's standing right next to me and she said
You know, he might be able to hear you. How about you right now make it right with your dad and apologize
for leaving the Amish religion because
He might have done this because he so she goes down the blame game road
And I just looked over my shoulder and I looked at my Amish mother and I said, you know what?
I have nothing to apologize to him for
But I think the Amish do
Wow, you know what to say
Wow, that's that's that's great. I'm glad you did that. That's good. Um
Wow
I tell you what, uh, Eli, you need to write a book
I hope you're considering it because uh, it's it's an amazing, uh, it's it's it's an amazing powerful story and um
and uh
Yeah, eventually so you're you're you're a christian now
So eventually when you left the Amish, did you still consider yourself some sort of a christian?
Um, or were you did you believe in god or were you like not an atheist or anything like that or?
um
Yeah, I obviously would probably be the closest the atheist if I'd describe it because I
I was so angry so bitter
That I ran from all religion all christianity if anybody mentioned anything about the bible god
Jesus religion I ran the other way
um
I was at the point in my life where I had such a wound
that
I was going to do whatever I thought would please me and I thought running after alcohol
You you name it. I did it all. I mean I ended up getting arrested
I did some crack cocaine. I did some drugs
Uh, I just went on a path of well, I'm not Amish. They told me I'm going to hell
So I'm just going to have a little bit of fun before I go to hell then that was my mindset
That's how I was thinking at that time and and I couldn't undo that for a long time for 19 straight years
After I left the Amish
I never picked up a bible. I was a mess
I got down to where I had a bankruptcy in by 2013 and I was left with nothing
and then then god started working on me a little bit and by 2017 I got to where
I kind of had this this notion of I'm going to go back Amish
Because I had to been to the end of myself everything I indulged in, you know
Women, sex, booze
Everything that I indulged in I still felt empty. I still came up to where I was like
I still I'm still not at peace. What do I do? I'm just going to go Amish
Maybe I'll be happy to you know being Amish because I was told that I could get to heaven and please god
That'll certainly bring me peace and then my one of my cousins that had left the Amish. He said
Make me a promise. I said, yeah, what is it? He said, uh, will you read one of those English
Bibles, not the Martin Luther German stuff. He said, will you read one of those English
Bibles?
And you know, I was kind of angry that he said that but I was like, okay
I'll promise you right now because when I read it
I'm going to show you exactly when I get to it that you must be Amish because they taught us that and I'm certainly going to come
across the way
and
Praise god. I uh, that that's what that's what it took
I'm glad my cousin said that because I went into the bible and I went to Matthew, Mark, Luke and in the book of John
I got saved because I was reading
Where Jesus is the only way he's he's the one that saves
Saves us
When we believe and have faith in that and I just kept remembering I just kept thinking
Where am I finally going to find this this Amish stuff that I was taught?
Where is it at and I'm not finding it and then of course the ordinance that they were keeping with all the rules
I found that in closions 214 where it says
blotting out the handwriting of ordinances
Which were against us contrary to us
Nailing it to the cross and I'm thinking I'm about to go Amish
I thought and I was going to keep the ordinance and be Amish and I'm thinking wait a minute
That just said it's nailed to the cross
So again, it God was showing me that Jesus was enough Jesus finished it
I can follow him
Without being Amish without being religious and that praise god is when I was set free
Wow, wow, that's a that's
That's incredible. Um
There was a question I was going to ask about about that. Um
I just forgot lost my train of thought train train of thought. Oh
um
Yes, that's right. Sorry is was your
Were you with your wife this entire time when you went through like how long have you been with your wife?
Uh, we've been together the 21 years since we met so wow
I met her
Just maybe six to eight months before that happened to my father
So my wife was with me in the hospital. She was with me through thinking thing
We really actually connected and got very close during that time because she was there for me
As this all was playing out and and I'm so glad it's so blessed that she was able to meet my dad
And she always says how my father was just such the nicest always friendly kind smiling
She loved my dad and he was the only one in the family that would he said Eli
I don't care what the church rules are and what mom's rules are because her dad was the bishop
So she was very strict. He said especially when he was drunk. He'd say this
He said you pull that car right on in this driveway. I'll stand right there and talk with you screw that bishop. He said
The um, so was your it was your wife, uh
Did she go through a similar if you don't mind me asking and if this is uh, if you don't want to talk about it
That's fine. But did she good has have the similar faith journey to you. Does she have Christian beliefs? Uh, at the moment
Did she always have Christian beliefs?
No, not necessarily, uh, she was kind of she would say she was a believer that during that time her family
Obviously they prayed and they said there is a god. So they were not atheists
But she didn't necessarily completely understand salvation, you know, she never they never really had any bible studies
But once I I did come to the knowledge of the truth
I started sharing that with her and educating her and so here at the house, you know
We try to have a bible studies and we all get to know what what the word of god says without
Anything else in the way, you know without church or religion or any past or anything else trying to
Tell us something that is not in the bible because that that's why i'm actually passionate about the word of god now
Is because it's enough for me without having any religious additives
Cool. Do you do you attend like a church or do you just mainly do those bible studies?
Yeah, two miles from my house here
We have a local church and it is a non-denominational church because I will only allow those
non denominations that teach the bible and want to teach others
And I I have no use for any denomination that have
Well, we've done this for this many years
See since I come from where I come from I have no use for tradition
I have no use for anything that is being practiced that it's not found in scripture
Wow, interesting. Do you does your does your church or doctrine that you subscribe to and excuse me if this is off topic
But do you believe in like speaking in tongues or laying on of hands things like that?
Or do you think that was for a time?
Well, I do never discredit what god can do god can do anything and all things now
I have not been gifted by the holy spirit to speak in tongues
But I can tell you that I have been to a few churches
I've been asked to preach and then share my testimony where I literally knew that it was the holy spirit in a person
Praying and speaking in tongues if something I couldn't understand at first because I come from the amish
I wanted to doubt that but I rephrased and repented from thinking that way because I know god can
You know the bible talks about we can all we all
As members of the body of christ
We're all gifted and if we know those gifts, you know the parable about the talents
We should not bury our talents. We should use them
I'm talented with preaching and sharing the word of god and that's what I do
But I'm not gifted with speaking in tongues
But I will not discredit someone when I see somebody speaking in tongues
Because I know that the bible makes it very clear some can be gifted to do that
Cool. Cool. Um, I I'm not a christian myself or a religious person
But I do I do appreciate your story and
Appreciate that you can't but took the time to come on uh to this channel to um to tell it
I I was hoping that we could um move into some um some more questions and answers
But first I do want to shout out a few things. So first thing I want to shout out is
Your tiktok people you need to go
So you need to go to this tiktok and oh, it's gonna ask me to do this again. It's so annoying
um
You need to go to this tiktok. There is just hundreds and hundreds maybe even thousands
No, probably not but hundreds of videos of you just answering every question about the arm ish. It's absolutely
It's amazing. Is there it's really good content and uh, it's uh, it's it's fascinating
Fascinating stuff and you're getting a lot of views, which is really cool. Uh, you're getting really popular
And the second thing we wanted to mention and maybe you can talk a little bit about a bit about this, but
um, you're part of uh
arm ish rescue
arm ish rescue mission and it started
By putting up these posters which taught kids in the arm ish community
About what safe touches and what not safe touches
so
and you actually had a story about how
these be these these billboards were put up
Next to a school that was part of a really dangerous, um arm ish community and then the school put up
barriers
Or the the church or something put up barriers and then moved the building. Is that right?
Can you maybe maybe you can tell us a little bit about this?
Yeah, yeah, the it was a former arm ish
Girl by the name of rachel that
Started arm ish rescue mission and made that kosher safe touch not safe touch because we didn't have sex sex education
So she was showing the red spots
So we used a lot of that to get that out there to show these young arm ish girls and boys
This information since they didn't have that
But yes, what you were talking about there would have been in ohio eastern ohio where we put up a billboard for arm ish rescue mission
Our hotline numbers on there a little bit of scripture from the bible
And and how they can be rescued and also the safe touch not safe touch
And we even had on that billboard sign about you are the boss of your body
And the reason we installed that arm ish rescue mission billboard there is because of what we were hearing
It's it is the most dangerous arm ish
community
In the world because of the bishop and how he's straight away from other arm ish and didn't want anything to do
With other arm ish churches when they came and tried to reason with him tried to get him to change his ways
He always he's very rich. So he always just told him the leaf
You know, he wants nothing to do with them
So when we put this arm ish rescue mission sign up
He found us as a threat
And he got very very angry
And so what he did was
He goes and puts this big orange fence up because this billboard sign that you're showing right now is
Diagonal from the arm ish school
And he did not want to have any of the children the young boys young girls victims
To see this information and call us
to be rescued
Because the stories we kept hearing from this arm ish community was that he was even taking other men's wives from them
Because he would claim to be like the prophet
Moses like the prophet Elijah in in the world in the in the bible like or isiah
and because of his teaching
Many people fell for it. Many people believed he was a true prophet and that he was hearing directly from god
So even some testimonies we were hearing where men felt like it was an honor
To give their wives to him to have children with so those kind of gruesome stories that we were hearing
Coming out of this community resulted in us wanting to desperately put up this billboard sign
And of course, you know, he's obviously very angry about that because
There's a few former arm ish that ended up
Getting out of the community and then reached out to us and said he has literally fathered over 50 plus children with many different
men's wives in that community
Wow
They on on armist rescue missions website
They have a statement at the start says survivors will no longer be silent on incest rape victim blaming human trafficking
intimidation
Vcality grooming kidnapping spiritual physical mental and verbal abuse
And I love that and it's in all caps. It's like this, you know
Enough's enough and I love that and so
You're involved in that you're part of the group that that does that now
Yes
Yeah, we we have our hotline 8886211985 for anybody needs rescuing these communities
We put that out there and then anybody that we always recommend getting on our website to see like you just read
All the information is on there. It's the www.armish rescue mission dot org
And you can ask anybody can support us and our mission by going on our website
And there's even a donate button on there because what we do is when somebody needs rescued we have to send out drivers
We have volunteers as taxi drivers to go out into these Amish communities
Several of them that now that we have picked up it took three drivers to get them
From one state to like two or three states over where our safe house was
And so it takes gas and we want to be able to make sure we reimburse all of these drivers
So it's it's not a a a cheap mission
You know, it does cost money. We do need funding. So we always like to give that
website out
www.armish rescue mission dot org that way people can help us and
Support our mission because we cannot do it if we didn't have people already help us
We've got so many people awesome people that have
Volunteered to to help us if it's you know safe houses where the former Amish are reaching out and saying hey, you know what
My house is open. I got an extra room if you have anybody it's being abused and they reach out
We want to help them get jobs. We want to get make just make sure they're safe
And you know, I think it's just been amazing how fast it took off really because
We didn't think when we first started it that there'd be that much support that much outreach
But yeah, it's just been taken off like crazy and now we have hundreds of safe houses all over all over the place really
Wow, do you have do you have any stories of like
Amish people that you've helped get out like do you have any like stories that stick with you?
Yeah, the the first one that comes to mind would be Hannah
Hannah what was adopted from the non-Amish world and her
Adoptive Amish father wanted to adopt. We know now adopt for all the wrong reasons to fulfill his sexual desires. So she was
molested and raped at a very young age because some of these Amish stories that that that are coming out now
They adopt I think for just the wrong reasons and she was even chained down. She was molested
She was raped and then she was able to reach out to a former Amish that called me and got the ball rolling
We got her out of there and got her she needed counseling
You know, we got her into a couple different places where we were able to give her a safe
House, you know, we don't let the Amish know where they're at. We don't never leak that information out
We don't tell them where they're at which state because the Amish are known to come after them to try to get them to come back
And then Wayne is another one. He got a hold of me and he said
You know, I really got to get out of there and he told me he was of age 18
So I could legally get him out of there and we used three different drivers to get him out
And you know, just the stuff he was sharing, you know
beatings kind of like what I endured physical abuse sexual abuse just all of this gruesome stuff
And that is when it's worth it when when we were able to successfully
Get some of these young men and women out of the community and get them far away from the mess that they were in
Hmm
Eli I
I'm blown away by what you and Amish rescue mission are doing. I take my hat off to you guys. It's um, it's it's incredible
I'm glad I could
Give you my my small podcast platform to spread the message a little bit
It is we mentioned before stream that it's not all Amish
You do you still have friends that are in the Amish community that you know, it's safe and and fine
um
Do you do you see this? I do have I do want to jump into some questions. Do you see there's anything inherently wrong with
the Amish way of life
Yes, in the very conservative order the secretive groups. I call it because they keep crimes
They say the church must take care gods church. They call it must take care of those crimes
There's no mandated reporting. They won't report those crimes to law enforcement. They have no ties with the government
Those are the ones that that are the biggest problems now some of the more liberal new order
I call it they have what's called mandated reporting and they hold people accountable
Now that I think they actually support us and we've actually gotten phone calls from some of them and they said hey look
We're willing to work with you and if you rescue somebody that that loves to be Amish and wants to stay Amish
We want to take them in and be an Amish safe house and we're like what?
You're willing to work with us and you're Amish
So it just shows you the difference and there's a lot of good Amish people out there
They good hearted loving people and they hate evil just as much as we do
And they stepped up and they say we're willing to work with you
So thank god for that, you know that was such a blessing that they were willing
To to work with us and if some of these youngsters that are being abused if they feel uncomfortable to live a worldly life
Because they are also taught the way I was that they would go to hell if they left so now we can offer a
Amish safe house that can keep them in the Amish and still go to the Amish church if they want to
But I would say the old order very conservative ones. Those are the ones that
Hide these crimes and hide these abusive incest
Abestiality animal sex a lot of those things are coming out of the old order strict communities
It's it's good. I think there's not much good good can come from secrets
And I think when you have a secret society secret group, I think that you have to ask why there are secrets
Um, so I think it's it's good that there's some communities that they like that
Um, I have some questions from the audience
So first of all aunt just said I'd watch that movie becoming English the Eli Yoda story
So the mind of a movie about you one day that'd be great
um
So uh, these they said, uh, I heard the education is just through grade eight
Keeping away from worldly subjects that would a typical child study. Is it mostly religion?
Yeah, eighth grade is only we're all actually new order and old order Amish all keep that tradition
You only go to eighth grade now again. I'll go to the strict ones where I'm from
By not educating you properly. We didn't know a lot of things. We didn't know the dangers of things
I didn't know the history. I didn't know that all of these other nations, you know,
Australia, Germany, you know, mention all those other countries outside the united states
I was never taught those things. We only went to eighth grade. We just learned about Amish stuff
We just learned about construction how to build a house how to build a barn and just the
I'm imagining you don't also learn you don't you don't get taught evolution or quantum mechanics in
I mean, that's in uh, probably where you're from. It's probably not doesn't get taught much at all. Anyway, um, but
Yeah, you're in the bible belt, right? Is that I don't know the us very well
Is is Ohio in the bible belt or is it not?
I'm not sure about the bible belt, but Ohio would be about the center like
Northern just above us would be michigan and then you got canada. So we're like in the northern part of it. Oh, okay
Okay, okay. All right. I was just saying but I okay that makes sense. Yeah, so that so is it mainly just
Amish stuff. Um, do you don't learn history or science and things like that?
Some of them do if it is it's very little
I remember we were taught about like the united states and we had to try to memorize every state
You know, we live in Ohio. So like, you know, Virginia West Virginia, Michigan all the states
So they they taught us a little bit about our country
But you know civil wars, um, world war one world war two
How bit you know the round ball the earth with all these other I didn't know none of those things
So when I left I was like
Wow, the world is so big
Wow, so did you think that the earth was flat at that time?
When you were in the Amish. Oh, yeah. Yeah, the whole time growing up. I thought it was definitely flat
Oh, wow. Okay. Um, do you believe it's flat now? Do you believe it's a globe now?
No, it's a round ball
Hey, you have to ask these days. It's a big flat earth community. I'm online
Okay, uh, so some more questions just scrolling back up. Um,
Were batteries allowed? I imagine not for clocks. No in our community the batteries were not allowed
Some of the new order Amish have batteries
You know flashlights and under their buggy to have brighter lights on their buggies, but obviously the strict ones they do not allow batteries
Can you talk about the notorious Amish food?
Uh, some German names for that stuff, uh, but I will I will describe our favorite meal
That was called the haystack and it was about 20 to 30 different items
Obviously the Amish are known for their good delicious food because everything is homemade. They live off the land
They got their own vegetables. They can everything. They got their own meat. There's no preservatives in it
There's no garbage pumped into it. No
Antibiotics pumped into it through the cattle. It's all
Not, you know, homegrown. I guess you could call it organic
And so some of their meals and their dishes are just delicious and this haystack
You could add meat
vegetables
Salad kind of anything you want you can reach into that table and pile it onto your plate until it's so tall
It looks like a haystack. That was my favorite meal
Wow, um
So, uh, they asked what did uh, what did you think about when you discovered google?
I was pretty amazed by that. I thought wow google is much smarter than the Amish
Did you um, and this is this like if this is if you don't want to go here
That's totally cool
But do you remember when you first discovered like obviously, you know when I was 12 years old
I was on the internet and I would you know, you'd see pop-ups for pornography and things like that
When when you first experienced that that would have been when you left the Amish
Were you just like what is this where you blown away when you first saw like adult material like that or was it
Mm-hmm
Yeah, yeah, that was actually kind of overwhelming to be honest with you because call my buddies
That they could tell you some stories that that they'll never forget they laugh and joke still to this day about it because they went and rented a
porno movie
A vcr and they put it into the vcr and they didn't say nothing to me. They just sat back
I was drinking at the time, you know, I left the Amish and I'm just living how I want it to anyway
And I'm just sitting there and they plugged it in and they just they're just quiet and they're watching now
Comes on and they're just watching my reaction. I'm just like
What's going on?
And of course as you can imagine
For the icing on the cake for them they next put in a homosexuality
Where where it's like the same. Yeah. Yeah, and that would have been even more confused
I have not done tiktoks on that but that was one of the highlights that they just yeah, they were having fun
That's so funny. Um, yeah, it's uh, it's wild what what people you can access like online now
Like you think about like 50 years ago. You'd never see some of the stuff that you can
Good at the finger at your fingertips. You could see so I wonder how that's going to affect society. I don't know
It's uh, probably a bad thing, but
I don't know it's going to use the world in a hundred years
What when they asked me, uh, I remember they were talking about the word gay
Homosexual and I remember I was like I I didn't want to look stupid, but I was like, okay
What is that and so they have
We didn't we didn't have stuff like that, you know, we didn't have
Any same sex stuff. So when I whenever asked me about that kind of stuff
I'm just like and then they'd talk about the women's time of the month and all of that
I didn't even know what that was. I was never taught. I was a guy
So I didn't even know that women have that time of the month and they're trying to explain that to me
You know, it was just so much that I had to learn
was it
Once again, I'm getting very personal, but feel free to non answer this
But when you first started engaging in sexual activities and stuff was that like a hard thing for you to like
I guess it's uh
For us growing up for me growing up in as a teenager all us boys would talk about it and stuff and we would see
pornography when I'm 15 16 and stuff and we get ideas from that but but
With no sexual education like how did your first sexual experiences? Were they
Uh a disaster or were they like something that you had to work through like what what was that like?
Yeah, it was I wasn't educated in that so my first thing
I remember I was dating my first girl and just a couple days into it. I said something her about, you know
We should just go get married so that we can have sex and I remember she looked at me and she
Married
And I'm
I'm doing the Amish thing and I said well, don't we have to get married to have sex and she said
No
And I just remember how stunned she was that I wanted to get married because I thought there was no way I can kiss her
I can't touch her. I can't see her naked until we're married. That was my my understanding
So obviously she had a lot of breaking in to do when it came to that
Wow, that's amazing
So well Eli, it's been absolutely amazing having you on. I just wanted to uh before we jump off make sure you go check out
Eli's tiktok make sure you check out
Amish rescue mission
And see the all the cool stuff they're doing. Um, absolutely awesome
And for those who are new to deep drinks podcast here. We the guest chooses their favorite drink and we drink it
Together and coming up. We have some fun episodes. We have purity
purity culture horror stories with feral passes wife, which will be really fun. And then we have the
Q&A special with Derek Lambert. Derek knows everything Christmas special, which is going to be he talks to a lot of bible scholars and
Scholars of religion and we're going to be asking him all the questions throughout the year. So that's going to be fun as well
Um, but make sure you go over to Eli's tiktok and also Amish rescue mission and donate if you can and help support them in any
Which way you can
Um, I've just got one last question that someone's asked
Um
Have you considered partnering with rain rain is the rape abuse incest national network?
I have not heard of that. I didn't wasn't aware about rain. Is that in like an organization or?
I think so. Um
Rain might be able to help them reach more people and arm can fill in the gaps where rain is missing
Hmm. It must be. Yeah, maybe it's something to look into. I'm sure
Yeah, I'm sure it's good rape abuse incest national network
Okay, it might be something that you can pass on to the good folks at Amish rescue mission
And maybe it's something that you call partnership
But thanks everyone for tuning out. Eli is anything else you wanted to say before we leave?
No, I think
I think that's about it. I mean we just
Thank you very much for having me on because I love to make awareness and any any kind of awareness like this
Where we can get the word out there and and my biggest desire is is to help those
My people the Amish, you know, we just because of what I went through I don't hate them
I'm not bitter at them. I love them enough to where I wish all of them
Would be willing to work with Amish rescue mission because
We want to help those that can't help themselves and give a voice to those that were silenced
And I just wish that there was more
More help out there to help those especially in the very strict communities where we could literally help them
To freedom and and get them to heal because I know how much healing I had to do and it was a process
It's like layer after layer that you got to peel off. So I know there's a lot more cases
We there's only a few that we know of and I know there's a lot more cases
Out there that we don't know of and that is that is why I appreciate
Podcasts like you here. Did you have us on and try to make awareness and talk about it?
So I really appreciate you having me on
Well, thank you so much for coming on Aunt Joe said that they're going to message you on tiktok about rain
So maybe they've got a contact there, but thank you so much. Eli for coming on
I'll play the outro and I'll see you in the back room, but thanks everyone. See ya. All right. Thank you
