You
You
Welcome to deep drinks podcast where the drinks are deep and the conversations are deeper
You
Welcome everyone to the first ever live
episode of deep drinks podcast
Today we have a very very very special guest. He was the first doctor we ever had on
The podcast and his first ever returning guests on the first ever live episode
So everyone knows that it's dr. Josh, but first we're going to go through a few quick
Announcements for those listening on podcasting apps in the future. This episode was live
So if you want to join in the future and you want to ask questions to our guests
You can subscribe at youtube.com slash deep drinks and for those watching at home right now
Check out and subscribe to youtube.com slash deep drinks
Another thing is we recently did an awesome panel
So on hell so if you're someone who struggles with an intense fear of hell
We had a panel dr. Josh was part of the panel and we went over hell's history getting over the fear
If you know someone or you yourself have got a intense fear of hell, whether you be christian atheist or whatever you are
I recommend going and checking out that episode that panel. It was a really good time
um
Also, the last thing is at the end of the show. We'll be asking your questions
So make sure you save up the good questions for right at the end and then we'll
Be answering them or dr. Josh will be answering them
So with all that said, I'd like to welcome dr. Josh
Good to be back
I don't know if i'm a good representative of the first doctor to have on but
You know, you take you take a seat and get you know, no, okay. So I was um hesitant to uh to
To do this well last time I introduced you I it was like a novel right and I had to and every time you come on
You always downplay yourself. So I have to I have to say this
Um, I've got put all the introduction together
But I just want people if you don't know who dr. Josh is most people do know who you are
But if you don't know, I just want to introduce you and your credentials, right?
So dr. Josh
That's you graduated with a phd in a seriology from john hopkins university in 2017
Prior to that dr. Josh obtained a bachelor of science in religion from liberty university
A masters of theology in old testament from capitol bible seminary a masters of near eastern studies from john hopkins university
And what translation does josh use in his book? You may ask
Huh, well, he uses his own the show off uses his own translation of the hebra bible. That's right. He translates the hebra bible
Dr. Josh has been a christian a chaplain in the air force a pastor and an atheist and an author
For the first time, um, dr. Josh appeared on deep drinks. We spent two hours drinking american whiskey and talking about slavery
Uh, it was much more fun than it sounds
Today, uh, we welcome dr. Josh dr. Josh back to talk about his new book
Volume two of an atheist handbook to the old testament
How was that? Welcome. Yeah, I mean, you know, uh, I have to follow that now. That's the problem
You know, people are people are prime. You know, what's he gonna do?
Uh, you know, I'll give it. I'll give it my uh, my college try, you know, uh, you're
You always undersell yourself. So your new book is awesome. I must say so
I have with me here and I'll just do a quick little promotion. This is the first book we discussed
Did the old testament endorse slavery if you don't have two hours to watch us?
Talk about it. Um, the answer is yes, it did and it wasn't nice slavery either. Um
Secondly, uh, I read this book, uh, did the um, the atheist handbook to the old testament volume one
This was fantastic. I was like, okay. This is awesome
You know, I completed ministry college back in 2009 and this book would have saved me
Just in its recaps of what happens in the bible. I won so many assignments. Um, it's really brilliant
But then you somehow ended up one upping yourself with volume two
And I don't have a physical copy with me. So you're gonna hold it up. But there we go volume two
Is there it's out. It's amazing. I'm only four chapters in and it's it's crazy
Well, I really appreciate that it was, um
It was
As I say, it was fun to write. I I don't know if it was fun for megan
For me to write it, uh, particularly given that on wednesday night. I was on uh
on with us and
You know
Talk of volume three started then she came into the chat in all caps
Yeah
Speaking of which, you know, I just have to give a shout out
You know, here's my here's my tangang mug
From which i'm shipping my rum
Yep, we got uh, we got some tangang peeps in the chat already. We got os
We got jenna
um
Oh, yeah, we got we got the whole we got the crew here
but um
One tangang is awesome
But one thing you were just mentioning is when megan was saying no in volume three
I sent her a message and I said, oh, um, uh, josh said, uh, i'm writing a book. I've never done it before josh said, uh
That you you were happy to edit it for me. So thanks for that
Oh my gosh, like I sometimes I wonder
Uh, what what is worse?
Uh writing the book or making sure you get all the spelling and grammatical errors out of it
um, yeah
because
You know, and we were very fortunate this time we hired, uh, dr. Kip davis
to edit it and
You know, not only did he
You know catch 99 of that stuff, but he gave some amazing
Insights and and obviously lots and lots of comments
um
Many of which made their way into the book. So
This has been in a lot of ways a team effort
um
You know dr. Kenneth adkinson
uh
Who's an archaeologist?
You know, he he read through the entirety of it and made really substantive comments
And it's been peer reviewed
by some pretty big names, um
Eric kline being one of them, which I was really excited about
um, so
Yeah, if for anybody doesn't know eric kline is the author of 11 77
which is
An insanely popular book and he's incredibly talented
Uh, anyway
But yeah, I'm excited
I I I had a um interaction with one of your uh haters maybe or fans, um on uh, probably a hater on uh twitter
And they said, you know, does anyone take does any scholar actually take dr. Josh's work seriously? Um, and I was like
like
like, um, you know and megan replied and said, you know, he doesn't post fringe ideas. He posts consensus and um
and it's like and I was like
What would be the point of him writing a book the atheist handbook to the old testament?
If he's just going to make up a bunch of stuff that is consensus
The whole point is to point to consensus so that atheists and christians can have better dialogues around
The conversations around the old testament that he read bible
So, I mean defeats the purpose of the book. I mean, I will say I will say this
um
I'm not a brave soul
uh, and what I mean by that is uh
I I don't like
Being told that I'm wrong about something
Not because of like my pride but because I feel so so much like I'm being this huge disappointment
To whoever tells me that
Uh, so by the way going through my doctoral program was a nightmare
Um, because that's all it is right is just telling you how you're wrong all the time
um
So when I write something the thing that I'm the most terrified of
Uh, is somebody coming back and saying
Did you did you actually read all the secondary literature on this? Did you actually read?
You know, there's this tablet that you didn't see did you actually make a score of that Sumerian text you were talking about?
um
You know, so I uh
I I try very very hard for very selfish reasons
to uh
In these types of books to present
What it is that the the the mainstream
Scholarship is and consensus if you can find it
So even if that consensus is
What's not that?
Right. We don't know what it is, but it's not aliens. Right. Um, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. I I do remember
Well, what I really what I've what I've noticed your book is it reminds me a little bit of um, this is a nutritionist
Doctor I kind of follow who does all these stuff. He's dr. Gregor of nutrition facts
And one thing that people don't like about his content is he always and usually ends with a big question mark
These studies say this this study says this
It's probably good in this direction, but we're not sure and it's it's so different to you know
The lemon detox diet, you know lose 50 pounds in 30 days kind of like all that kind of stuff. So
It's uh, I notice that with your book. It's it's um, it's kind of
Up in the air a lot of the time as well where you just you get you know, this is the this is what we do know
Which is what we don't know and that's what the chapter is called. Yeah the exodus what we can say and what we cannot say about it
Yeah, so I thought it was interesting
It seemed like an honest way to approach this subject. I mean
So I was I was actually, um, listening to
Larry garrity Lawrence garrity who I cite in the book
do a lecture
On the way home today and like all he was doing was essentially
presenting the main theories on the exodus
and
You know what he says is okay. Look, I'm gonna I'm gonna tell you the fringe ones
And then I'm gonna tell you what the consensus is if you believe that the exodus has some
historical validity
Right when it comes to the time frame. What is it that everybody if somebody thinks?
This that there's something that happened here historically speaking
Um, whatever it is at whatever level it is whether it's a kernel of truth or you know, it's the the biblical texts are inspired and historically reliable
Uh, the consensus is that it happened in the 13th century, right?
Um
Now there in no way he's he's not then saying okay. Now. Here's the right answer
Right because somebody like ronald hendel would say no, there's cultural memory, right?
uh, or you know
fickle stein and
Deaver kind of go back and forth about where the the israelites came from going up into the highlands during the conquest
Or in that that period of formation
So it's that the book is not designed in most places to tell you what the right answer is
Just like in volume one
You know, I I love joel baden love him to death
But I haven't obviously done anywhere near the level of research into the formation of the pentateuch that he has or somebody like conrad schmidt has
um
Or thomas roemer or any of these guys
and so
You know when I wrote the chapter on did moses write the pentateuch that was the only that's the only question i was trying to answer
Not is the documentary hypothesis the right way to go is more of you know
Some supplementary hypothesis and layering are there two major redactions like i'm not getting into which one i might tell you a little bit about each one
But I can't suss that out, right? I don't have the expertise to do that people devote their careers to it
um, but what they all agree on
Is that one guy named moses didn't write it and that's all that really matters for the book
Yeah, it's awesome
Um, so I want to dive into your book
But first like it's 10 in the morning here and it's a crime in australia not to be drinking on saturday more at saturday
Morning at 10 a.m. So you've chosen captain morgan's
Spice rum. We've got a little bit left. So you're already sipping it out of your
Tanga is a tang gang cup
uh, it's
in my eyes
Yeah, ms has been acting up more recently. So my eyes have gotten worse, but it says
Yeah, the atheist network group and I think it says there is no god at the bottom
I love tang it's so good. Um, I thought it was a missed opportunity though have to be honest
Because there is no god. It's good, but they could have said there ain't no god
Tang
There ain't no god. Oh god. Oh, yeah, you know, I mean, yeah something something else that uh
That I came up with a couple days ago
House of pain. Do you remember house of pain?
No, the group house of pain
Yeah
Yeah, they're their most famous song was
That I know of jump around right jump
Jump. Yep. Yep. Yep
House of pain
H
P
Hop around
No, I'm just saying house of pain hop
And their famous song is jump. Oh, yeah
coincidence
No, it's all the Illuminati. It was something right? It's all probably
Yes, but you know the sense of scholarship says that it's a coincidence. So
That's awesome. Yeah, all my jokes just sort of fall flat. So I'm sorry. I'm
No, I get it. I I was I was trying to remember who um house of pain were and I was like, I just googled and I was like, ah, cool
Cool. Yeah, I'm old. Josh. Like I'm an old man. So, you know, I'm not here for these can't be that old
Can't be that old David 30 to three
I'm 42. So, you know, okay
Well, uh
So I wanted to before before jumping into
The discussion tonight. Um, is it anything about the excess? Is it anything you learned writing volume two that you
What was anything you learned writing volume one that you
Put into volume two like do you approach it differently?
Yeah, um
That's a good question. Um
I think one of the things that I did
was to be
to be
much more intentional
About choosing which topics I was gonna I was gonna write on
What I mean by that is
You know volume one it
I feel like I got lucky with it
Um, because I had done a whole series on the book of daniel, right? I'd done
Uh, a bunch of work on did mosas write the penitouk
um, I'd done a whole
Uh, a whole video maybe two. I can't remember on did uh, you know, the prophecy Ezekiel's prophecy of tire
You know, so all the chapters that I wrote on
I can't remember what the fourth or slavery, of course. I'd done a lot of work on slavery
So what I was going to do was just do those four chapters and put them into sort of a small
Smallish book, you know, basically following my scripts
and um
and then I thought
I should if I'm going to make this like a useful tool
I need to give background information. So that's where the first three chapters came from
So in a lot of ways it was sort of like after the fact
How do I bring this together and make it make it fit and again? I think it turned out well
um
Megan helped a lot. Um
But
That meant with volume two. I could be much more intentional
about how I was going to do this and uh, of course, I learned
that
Very surprisingly to me that people really really like that first chapter where I just sort of go through the narrative
of the old testament right tell the story
And I was I was so surprised that that was such a big hit. Um, I mean, I'm happy
but uh
Yeah, so I so I was able to you know, kind of take my time and go this was a lot more
This section was pretty meaty
because it went through
You know leading up to king david and the united monarchy and
You know so going all the way down through salomon
and his death
So it was it's it was a good chapter to you know to there was a lot in it. I guess
But uh, yeah, I think just being able to be a lot more intentional was really useful
Yeah, so, um, I received a like a pre
print version to quickly read before this podcast from megan
Um, like
A few days ago and I was like, oh cool like the chapters like, oh, you know, I'll read one chapter or two chapters and the introduction
um, I started reading like chapter
Three um on ken and I um stuff and I was like, okay, this is like this is this is going somewhere
This is going somewhere and then I was like, oh my gosh
We're like 50 pages in and we're like like it's dense like it's it covers so much stuff
And it's so much information there but written in such a way that you can like grasp and understand it and it's it's uh
Like like I said, like I feel like I could have all the old testament
Uh classes I did in ministry college could just be condensed into this book
But written in a way that people can understand it. It's it's fantastic. I really appreciate that
And it's um, it's nice to hear it's nice to hear especially
This is gonna sound a little embarrassing, but especially like I feel like I got a better understanding of the general story of the old testament from just reading your
your um
Like I should know more about the old testament
I feel like because I read the I read your like introductions to these like just an overview of the the bible
And um, and I was like that makes so much sense. Like why can't someone teach it like this? You're a brilliant teacher
I recommend people get the book. It's it's really good. I'm not just saying that
Well, I really appreciate that you should definitely not feel bad in any way
Because there's there's a lot there's a lot of moving parts. I think in the Hebrew bible and
So it it certainly wasn't like a straightforward easy thing
to to tease out the story
um
Of course, it's easier this book was easier in that sense because it's you know going through first and second Samuel
it's just like sort of
getting into
It's it's it's it's very much straight narrative. Whereas with the pentatook it was you know
Going through all the as ours says the begat begat begat, you know, yeah
But yeah, I think being able to to just see the storyline
And get that background really helps
Yeah
So let's jump into the actual chapter chapter for exodus. What can we say and what we cannot say?
I was hoping that you could give the audience
Pretend that some people in here
Don't really know much. They're not scholars. They're not they're not geniuses like us
They're just, you know, they're just regular people normies. All right, just pretend they're normies
And explain that was a joke everyone. I just hope you know at least the me being a genius part
Just maybe explain
If you could explain the exodus just quickly like a like a elevator pitch as you say
Yeah
So
It'll be a little bit longer. I think that an elevator pitch. Yeah. Yeah. Um, I a train ride pitch. Yeah, right
Um, so the the issue with the exodus for anybody that doesn't know what what that means
you know, there's a
there's a very important story in
a vapor bible
in the book of exodus that talks about
where
Israel came from it's one of the the two
sort of formation stories
And so it talks about the israelites having gone down, you know
Joseph and and jacob's family all going down
Into egypt joseph dies, you know
And and and the people start to multiply his descendants start to multiply
And they're enslaved
In egypt and so there's this
you know
very involved story about the birth of moses and
um, you know, he he goes down and with yahweh's help
Through a series of ten plagues. He ultimately brings the people
out of egypt and of course the pharaoh pursues with his army
and uh, you know, the the army is drowned in in the
The yamsuf right the whatever that means like the reed see the
The
Final see whatever we're gonna say about it. Um
And so the israelites, you know, sort of to continue on the story they wander around in the wilderness for 40 years
Uh, and then finally they come into the land of kanan and under joshua. They conquer
so that's sort of like
The the the the long
Version of the story. So the difficulty, of course
Is you know, is it historically reliable?
Is the story that the biblical text is is presenting?
Is it historically reliable and to what degree is it historically reliable?
um now
You know back when
Biblical archaeology
Palestinian archaeology was like sort of
growing it was really up until
Well into the 20th century, you know, the basic idea from people like halbrite
Is it yeah, it's it's you know, basically historically reliable
The problem is that
um the more
excavation is done
Uh
Specifically in many of these cities that are supposed to have been uh either
You know, and they're supposed to be great encampments at these cities or the israelites are supposed to have stayed there for some time or
Uh, you know, they were supposed to have destroyed them
We don't it doesn't line up with what?
The the the bible says right the timeline of the biblical text
um
So this is part of the problem with the exodus first of all and I think really that the big debate is if it happened
When did it happen and what did it look like
Now if you're
You know more of a fundamentalist
evangelical
You're probably going to hold to like a traditionalist view, which is that um, you know, if you read through first king six
Uh, and you read through judges 11
There are these time frames that are given 480 years before this particular year of Solomon's reign and jeff that talks about 300 years before
him and so
There's this idea that in the middle of the 15th century so right around 1450 bce
That's when the exodus was supposed to have happened
um, and you know exodus 1237 talks about 600,000 fighting men
Um, which doesn't include women and children. So when you factor in women and children
essentially looking at two to three million people
leaving
The delta right leaving egypt
Well, you know that was all fine and good
until archaeology caught up with it
Right and it became clear
wait a minute
First of all that that number doesn't work at all
um, you know estimates are that only three million people were in all of egypt
at the time
um
And only several hundred several hundred thousand in the in the delta region
so
You know that number just doesn't work. You can't have all of egypt leaving egypt
right
That that that doesn't work
um, I also
Well, isn't there an issue with like at the time that some people think that the excess happened
They would have been leaving egypt to egypt like wasn't
That the section they went to
Yeah, so
if if you think about
You know the the east side of the mediterranean
Down underneath of it. You've got egypt and then if you go just to the
the southeast of the mediterranean sea, that's where you have israel
or canaan at the time
And canaan was under the control of
And look i'm not an egyptologist. I'm not an egyptian specialist. I'm just presenting
Uh, what it is that scholars say about this so
Um, if we have any egyptologists in the chat make sure you roast dr. Josh in the comments. Um, yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. Um
Certainly certainly not my field. Uh, that's what made I think writing this chapter
Fund slash terrifying
Is uh that i'm i'm i'm really having to dig down into
Right. What is it that scholars say about this and what is the rationale behind it? So
um
The the land of canaan is very very close right to the land of egypt and
Uh down until
I think down until the 12th century
Uh egypt had
a pretty firm hold
Uh
On canaan it was broken up into two or three provinces
And governed right probably a lot better like military. Um military personnel
Uh, but but people that sort of governed over there
And of course we know a lot of this
From a group of texts canaan form tablets that are written in akkadian
That were found in egypt at a site called hotel al-amarna
Called the amarna tablets
very um creatively
Um
And there's a lot of correspondence letters
between the sort of
Local rulers that were in canaan that were subjects of the pharaoh
And the pharaoh himself and they're often asking for help
you know
Talking about conspiracies. The other ruler is conspiring against them
against the pharaoh and so
But but we know that egypt is under the control
Of uh, sorry canaan is under the control of egypt. And so yes the idea that in the 15th century
um
You know people leave egypt to go to canaan
You know, it's they're they're leaving egypt to go to another land controlled by egypt. It just doesn't work, right?
which is
And and there are other factors that we don't have to go into here because it might be a little too detailed
But there's a reason that if if people think that there's any historical validity
behind the story and again like
Any any small amount of historical validity it happened they would argue during the 13th century
um because there are some there are some things that happen like
the building of
piramacy and
pethom like these are these are cities
that the biblical text talks about
that were
Supposed to be built before the exodus took place while they
You know they were built what in the in the 13th century
So
I think around
1270 I can't remember but at any rate not it doesn't work in the 15th century
But what that means and I'll stop talking but what that means is
that
If you're going to the reason that people have changed from a from a traditional
date
in the 15th century
um
to this
13th century position is because of archaeology
Right archaeology has said
The 15th century doesn't work
so
That in and of itself requires that people come up with explanations
for why
First king six one says four hundred eighty years before saloon which would have been you know that year would have been like 970
So you go back four hundred eighty years from 970 or 1450 right?
Well, why is it that that doesn't work because it up until archaeology sort of exposed that it worked right?
um
And so then you have to kind of come up with explanations. Well, maybe 480 years
It's supposed to be 12 generations of 40 years
But maybe maybe a generation's only like 25 years and so you know, then we can get you know that number down
and so then it matches up like
um, you know
With with that number six hundred thousand fighting men an exodus 1237
Maybe it doesn't maybe eleph there the word for thousand doesn't really mean thousand
Or maybe it means like a military unit or you know like smaller and so that gets the number weighed down
So it makes it more feasible
But the only reason that you make that argument is because archaeology tells you
That there couldn't have been that many people in egypt, right? So it's it's very much
in response
Um, which is why this would be the last thing I say, but this is why more fundamentalist
Uh advocates that that talk about the exodus
Do so saying whoa, whoa, you're really having to do some mental gymnastics with the with the text here
Because look it says very clearly 480 years here and it says very clearly 300 years there
Right, how do you
How do you get around this? Uh, well you have to do these sort of mental gymnastics
Is is is with the argument is so
That's the that's the issue
or the issues
Um
Yeah, it's um
Sorry
Heathen queen just messaged me complaining about not being a mod. Um, and it just came up and it lost my channel thought
Thank you. Heathen queen
You're not a mod because you didn't ask in the on the twitter thread. Okay
And also just to shed out some people who who um,
Oz is saying that he's disappointed that no one's drinking. We are drinking. You mean obviously mr.
side of the show
This is deep drinks and everyone let me know what you're drinking in the comments because I'd like to know what
What you're drinking on a on a friday night if you're in the u.s. Um
so
what I what I like about um
volume one volume one was interesting for me, right because
You tackle genesis and um, and no annie's magical zoo boat. Um and and things like that, right? So
Uh, and you know, it's kind of like reading. It's kind of like hearing someone talk about like law the rings. Um
You know, like it's obviously a boat obviously didn't say, you know, like there's things that are obviously not true
But you you handled it respectfully and like but it's like obviously these were that
A polemic you you mentioned most likely and to mesopotamian civilization
And that was cool and everything but what I found interesting about the ex's story
Is this a part of my brain that thinks maybe there is some validity to that like what parts of it are actually true
So I wanted to just ask
What can we say about the ex's?
And then yeah, what we can't say just yeah, so
Like there are there are things that I think are important to recognize and this is where
I I really think it's important for us as skeptics as atheists diagnostics, whatever
um
That we're fair with the data
so
You know, there are
The first part of the chapter sort of goes through what are the earliest references
to an exodus event
right or events
and
There are some early poetic passages
In the pentateuch poetic passages in the pentateuch
Specifically exodus 15 and parts of numbers numbers 23 and 24 that
reference an exodus event
and
So you also see it in the prophets and I look at the the prophets hosay and amos
Who are eighth century prophets and say what is it that what is it?
um
That they're describing but there doesn't seem to be like uniformity
In what they're describing in other words, it's not like exodus 15
That hits all the points right like it talks about slavery in egypt and they're making this wilderness wandering and all this stuff like
No, it's it's basically talking about yaoi as a divine warrior
um
and
When you look at places like numbers or then you go to the prophets
You get different aspects of the exodus story and what it
You know, even though we we don't think or it doesn't seem like scholars would would think that
who specialize in this
that
The entire story
That we see in the canonical version like the final version
in the book of exodus
It doesn't seem like these early references hit all of those points
Um, but there is an exodus tradition right there's something back there
So then the question is where do these things date to?
um now
These things are
still debated
By the specialists that look at like linguistic features and you know, they're other aspects that are probably too boring for this podcast, but
Um, it seems like the exodus is section of exodus exodus 15
You know, if if we're generous may go back
To like the 11th century
right
I mean, maybe not that far, but maybe
I sort of granted in the book right
Maybe it goes back to the 11th century
Then it seems like the oracles of belim go back to the 9th century
Maybe eight or nine century and then certainly the two prophets even though there's debate. Maybe it's later redactions
But again granting it it seems like it seems like early on
Even though it was like a primarily a dark age
Uh in in our understanding
Of israelite formation
It seemed like there was an exodus tradition
Something was there
um
And I think that's important to recognize
That it doesn't seem like it's just this
5th century bce development like somebody just made it up out of whole cloth
Interesting I think that's important. Yeah, so um, I know you hate doing this. So you've but uh, you like to give consensus
Uh opinions, but I want to know dr. Josh's opinion. What do you reckon?
is the uh
The um, that's right. Um, what do you
What do you think?
Where do you think it came from or what do you do you have any inkling?
Yeah, I mean I again
I'm not a specialist and I think to be able to to say anything with it like you would want to talk to somebody like
William diva ronald hendall
um
You know somebody that specializes in this I've read them. So, uh, you know, I feel sort of comfortable saying this
Personally what seems to make sense to me and again like just take this with a grain of salt because I'm not
Uh, I'm not a specialist
um
It seems reasonable to me
That there may have been
uh
In the 12th century maybe I don't know. Um
After
You know the power that egypt had over canan had waned it may have been during that sort of weak
Period that some slaves did escape right because we know that they did I talk about it in the in the chapter
We have documentation. That's it's just two
uh slaves that escaped but
you know
it it seems like
During the second millennium slaves escaping was a thing
right
And so I don't see any problem
thinking that some canaanite slaves that have been taken by the egyptians and
You know raiding into canan
um
Escaped and you know, maybe felt like it was a miraculous thing that they did and when they came into canan, right?
So maybe we could be talking about 10 people, right? Who knows?
um
But when they came into canan
There was this group of people that had set up in the highlands
um
Calling themselves isra. I mean we know that
I think we're scholars seem pretty reasonably sure again. I don't I don't know egyptian
So I don't want to
speak to that
Just because I like the marinette this deal is one of the places that we see israel mentions the place that we see israel mentioned
um
But it seems like scholars agree that in 1207 or thereabouts
There is a group called israel that is
Significant enough to draw the attention of the pharaoh pharaoh napta
um
So like you've got this group up in the highlands that's forming
or has formed there's continuing to form and
And
If you think about the people in canan
They would have felt enslaved right because they're under the thumb
Of their egyptian overlords
um
So that could have felt like a type of slavery
uh
And coupled with you know, maybe a small group of people coming up out of egypt
Uh and joining in the highlands and talking about the miraculous escape
It I I see no problem with that developing into ever generations
Sort of this this mythological
um
Story of their beginning right of their formation
uh like
So I I guess, you know
One of the quotes that I have is uh comes from
this 2017
uh
edited volume
I can't remember flesher is one of the uh, the right eliot. I think is another but um
You know, basically they say
Were there slaves that escaped from egypt in the second millennium? Yes
Uh, you know, did did the egyptians take captives and enslave them? Yes from canan, you know, uh
In other words, they goes through all of these aspects
Of the of the exodus story says did these things happen? Yes
The problem is they don't happen all at once
Right there that they're spread out through the second millennium
And so it's possible
Uh that part of this is like a telescoping
Uh of all of these events that have you know, sort of been brought down
um
And another thing david elan has an article
uh
Where he talks about our presentation
That where he talks about how egyptian officials that were left after egyptian power sort of waned
Uh in canan those that were left in canan married
and
You know that that could have been part of the early formation
So I think it's messy
That would I I would bet if I had to bet I would bet that it's a messy
development
You have cananites that are in the land that are leaving the cities that are pastoralists that are settling down
In the highlands, maybe just you know, like disenfranchised, but they're in other words, they're looking for this egalitarian
um
You know structure and and all of this sort of coalesces and develops
into early israelite formation
um in the highlands, but
Very happy to be proven wrong by that right very happy all I would say in the book
Is that in the same way that I can't crack open the royal inscriptions of sanakarib and write my history
um
And that's a contemporaneous text
Uh, or I can't crack open, you know later writings about naram sin
Uh from the first millennium and write a history about the old cating period
It's
Unwise, I think to put it mildly
to
Crack open the book of exodus and write your history
You know just sort of slavishly writing it. I don't think it it's not a good thing to do
historically speaking
You you did mention that you are willing to be corrected and I'm sorry we we we have uh, dr. Kip um davis
Where can you hear?
um
How do you account for the chariot wheels from white discovered while scuba diving in the red sea?
Come on. Let's try to keep that one down low keep it on a down low
Yeah, okay. I remember that
I remember seeing that documentary
It was almost as good as the documentary that I think bryant would put out
um
About jericho and it like this really cool, uh computer generated like demonstration of how the walls fell out
The mud brick walls and created a ramp for the israelites to run up. You know, it was like, whoa, that's so cool
you know
I I have I I actually have a question. Did you ever see I didn't know anyone who's seen this but it was a favorite of mine
this bad boy
Did you ever watch the search?
I didn't oh, it's like
it's like
It's classic christian kind of documentary style. It's actually pretty interesting. They go to uh
They, you know, they try and follow the bible literally and they go to um
They cross the red sea or or wherever and they end up in saudi arabia. They forge letters to the prince
Uh from the prince or whatever to get in there and then they find
Like an altar with carves painted on it and they find these big pillars and they find this top of the mountain and they crack open
um
This black rock that inside is granite and like that's where god, you know, it's steward or whatever, you know, so um
Yeah, and y'all wait pops out of it, you know
Um, you found me
Yeah, um michael jones, um is he believes in the volcano god? Um
No, he gets uh, he gets so triggered when anyone calls the gateway a volcano god
Uh, talk about michael jones. Have you seen his um excess rediscovered series? I have not no
It's um, I was going to play a clip of it here
But I feel like it's it wouldn't fit because the arguments build one another and you haven't really seen it so
But it's it's an interesting watch. Um
Coming like for me. I I know hardly anything about this topic. So
I'm kind of sitting and nodding and smiling like I do in this conversation where I'm trying to follow along and I
I get most of what you're putting down
um
I think one of the problems that we need to
sort of talk about
Is the idea of various similitude
so
I guess the the example that I always give because I feel like it's really
understandable
Is that you know, I was watching the original spider-man movie
um recently I'm only about 15 minutes into it, but
Um, you know, one of the things about spider-man, right? Is it takes place if I'm remembering correctly in new york city?
Yeah, right or like the avengers movies
um
Now if you were to
Um or ghostbusters, right like ghostbusters also in new york city
You know, you could probably go to different places that you see in the movie
Right and be like this this is where venkman
You know fired
You know the the shit the
What's that thing called that they shoot the um, okay anyway, it doesn't matter
I'm not sure. Sorry. I can't believe I can't remember what that's called somebody put in the chat, but um
But
That doesn't mean that ghostbusters happened, right?
The reason that that background setting is there is to give it various similitude
It's to give it like the the the feel of authenticity
right
and one of the things
That I think we have to come to grips with is that so often
um
in
arguments that are you know people that argue for the general
historicity
Uh of something like the exodus or the conquest
um
Is that
They do things like if you read james hoffmire, for example
brilliant egyptologists, um
But if you read what he says in his books and you know
There's a there's a recent publication. He's got a chapter and
It's essentially like if
if the stage
Up on which the scenes are set
Fits
Then that adds what's the word it adds um
Little dilly
Yeah, and he uses he uses a word and I can't remember what it is, but it's essentially yeah, it it enhances
That's what it is
Enhances it proton pack. I think it's called a proton pack. Anyway
um, I don't know why that came back to me just then so
um
We have to be careful with that
because again, it's predicated on the idea
That the biblical texts are
Generally should be considered reliable
Right and
That's a problem
Right, that's a problem and not not just for me right but for scholarship in general
um
Because certainly when you're talking about events
From like the book of kings or even even with samuel
um
It's a lot easier to get at
The general historical reliability of the events
There's a whole shit ton of propaganda that goes into it. Everything's twisted about david
but
You know
It's arguably
uh presenting
Actual to a degree history, right?
The problem is you can't that extend that to all of the biblical texts. You just can't
um
And so I think starting with this premise that well the exodus is probably generally historically reliable unless we can show that it's not
I think is a bad position to start with
um
For a number of reasons
uh
One of which it's written hundreds of years later
right and uh
But 100 years hundreds of years after the supposed events. That's correct
Okay, as related to the bible what the bible says when it happens, right? That's right
so
What what I think is important to recognize
In this is that it's not enough to say
It
fits
right because again
um
The scene that is set in the biblical texts
works in many more places than just
The 15th or the 13th century right generally speaking
um
Things develop much more slowly during those periods
um
What but this this sort of brings me to
maybe
The second half of the exodus narrative
Or that like the completion of the exodus narrative, which is the conquest account under joshua
and
um
The reason that I think the conquest is so important to
The discussion about the exodus
Is because whenever you date the exodus to if you're if you're taking a like a maximalist position
Particularly if you're taking a maximalist position that is
You know like the biblical texts are generally historically reliable
um
Then you have to contend with
Whenever they left
Egypt like 40 years later
You need to start seeing conquest like destruction layers
In the negev in the trans jordan and siss jordan
right cherico i
lahish khatsor right you need to see
In the archaeological record
this
You know evidence of this right it's it has and it has to fit in all of them unfortunately
I think
Certainly the majority of them
If you're going to hold to this position
Of of you know, the biblical texts are generally historically reliable
And this is what I talk about in the conquest chapter. Unfortunately for that position
Almost none of it fits
And even the places that do fit
Only fit in the sense that it's possible that this is an israeli destruction
Um, certainly not definitively that it was
Um
So and david you can start me if i'm just rambling on too much, but no no no go go ahead. I'm just um
I'm just trying to uh, it's not gonna work. There was a quote that I was going to put up on the screen from your book
But this is this is great
Because I was I was well
I'll I'll just I'll just read your quote because it's just going to flow into what you're hopefully going to
Talk about but you mentioned a quote from diva diva diva. I'm not sure
diva
You said one of the um of the 30 sites
The bible says were taken by the israelites
Actual destructions have been found in only two or three and these are not necessary israelite
sites like
Deep barn has bron jericho and ai were not even occupied in the late 13th century bce
When we now know that any excess conquest must have been dated
so
Like you hear that and this is the so eric kline who again is
Uh, i'm really excited about this. He's one of the peer reviewers of these chapters in particular
um
Because this is sort of his thing
uh
He wrote a book in 2009. I think I always mess up the year
uh
It's called eden to exile I think from eden to exile
And it deals with some of these several of these problematic
Um stories and one of them is the exodus and the conquest
Uh, actually, I think it's just the conquest. I can't remember but he deals with the conquest and his methodology
Uh, is the methodology that I used in this chapter primarily
Because what he did is he said, okay
We go through the biblical text and we see these cities I think there are eight of them
Are said to have been either totally destroyed or like
Seriously brought low
And so from an archaeological perspective, we've excavated at these cities
These sites we should be able to see the destruction layer
right, um
Do we see it
So the two questions that I ask utilizing that methodology and I sort of expand a little bit into trans jordan and into the nega
Looking at cities there
um
But the two questions that we ask in the chapter are
If if there's a city that was supposed to have been destroyed
by the israelites
One
Were there people there at the time was there a city there to be destroyed?
Because you need that
And then two is there evidence of destruction at that time
And that's all we're looking at
Were there people there is there evidence of destruction?
And again, I won't bore the audience with the you know the the details
Um, although I think if you're going to argue this topic, it's it's a really useful chapter
Because it's designed to arm you with the data
Um
Let's take the three trans jordan sites arad in the nega
So not really trans jordan but arad in the nega and then hashbone and debon
Uh in in trans jordan
Each are supposed to have been destroyed
None of them are occupied
During the late bronze age
right
So
So like this is this is a serious issue
Um, hang on just one second
Can
Can I go check something I think Oliver might be go yeah, Megan just texted me. I'm sorry
That's all right. You can go if you need to and I can answer some yeah
Yeah, sorry. She said she needs me. I'll be right back. All right. Cool. No worries
So answers some quick questions from people
um
Heaven queen you can jump on if you like. Um, if that's works for you
Um, because you're going to help with the q and a
As everyone doing today. I'm just looking through the questions now
Uh, all this says warning when you have me on I drink a lot. I'm not nearly as informative. That's great. It's awesome
Uh
You guys start talking about um spiderman, which is really interesting
Toby maguire is the best, uh
Spiderman I will fight anyone on that as well
um
Here's a good question. So one of my most common apologetic claims is that why would they make up a story where um, they were slaves
Um, I have no idea. That's actually a really interesting. Um question. You could you can see though
Like I'm I'm not an expert. Obviously in any of this but you can see that like, um
that
Like if they were like the the traditional hero narrative, right is like people
People like starting small and growing growing big you can see it in like everything like, um
Like even when you know, you play my favorite game zelda
It's a little forest boy who grows on to take on hyrule and you know take on ganondorf and things like that
so you can see that
maybe creating a story where
And this is just all at the top of my drunk arse head
creating a story where people actually
do talk about um
You know starting really small starting in a disadvantage situation and then becoming strong. It's actually really really works really well
Um, I do want to go back to kip davis like ron wyatt. Does anyone know anything about ron wyatt because
like
He has some really
he
He doesn't
take me
He doesn't take me for a liar
um
Even though the things he's obviously saying are liars. So
I'm really it's really hard for me to kind of evaluate
um
Like what he's saying and I'm I really I've been looking for like documentaries to try and go over some of his evidence and stuff because
To me it's something exactly it's something that I would have exactly bought into
um
Back when I was a uh
Christian fundamentalist because it kind of tells this narrative of like
You know the world
The world has one system but gods, you know cut through in another system
Um, and heathen queen is here. She's going to join us. So I'm not just talking to myself
And I just saw her skull a drink. Um, so she's on the right
Hello, hello
So happy to be here. You know what I mean
This is good. This is about to like fix my lip gloss, but then you added me to the show. So gotta
Touch up, you know
How's everyone doing?
It is
I love it here
Yeah, Ron White the guy who found the ark of the government. Yes
He found it. What else did what else did he find?
wasn't this also the guy that found like Noah's ark
And just like a fucking rock
Yeah, and where Jesus where Jesus was crucified and he went down to the caves
He found like a fucking tomb
He's like, this is the empty tomb and it's like no, it's just literally
Ann like it's a empty tomb
Yeah, Jesus was here. I can feel it just vibes. Yeah, you know straight vibes
He did find everything he he found like in this place where Jesus apparently was crucified. No
Oh, I'm back
Okay, down and then fell onto what he found as the ark and so he's on the mercy seat
So and I was like, you know back when I was a fundamental even now that's a pretty
Fucking cool story. That's
It's a fucking claim
Like that is a claim to fame my brother in Christ
Hey, obviously, he's never actually shown any evidence of any of this stuff. Yes. He's also kenthoven's hero
I heard kenthoven talk about it
He met he met him and he said, okay come on come on there
Come on there. Let's run away
Kent fulvend, you know what I mean?
Yeah
Oh
Yeah, I don't know. I'll go with carcinogenic. That is true. Uh, I don't know actually no
I don't know if that is true
Good sir, but I do know
Many things are alcohol is carcinogenic
I mean, I don't know most
Most things are well a lot of things are carcinogenic like, um, literally everything is killing us. So
All process meetings. I will be enjoying my way out. Do you know what I mean? Yeah
Oh
So how's your day been? Oh
Josh is back. Oh my oh we can talk about that
Shall I drop out? Shall I stay in? No, no stay in stay in. I'm here. Josh
Sorry, how you doing? That's okay
You okay, uh
Their household is dealing with some shit. Yeah, okay. Yeah
Well, uh, do you have do you have time to jump in some q&a josh or yeah, yeah, okay
So what we might do then um because we're coming up to an hour now and maybe we can do like a half an hour of q&a
So if anyone has any questions for dr. Josh, um, throw them in now
And that would be really awesome to
to do
We did have some I was trying to answer the questions. Um,
Myself dr. Josh, and I'm not very good at history and stuff. So michael granado asked before
Uh, one of the common apologetic claims is that why would they make up a story where they were slaves?
And then
To link credence to the idea that it is historically factual
If they were not there, why are they connected to egypt?
Oh
I see the question. Uh, well, um
So these types of apologetic arguments
Um, I think don't understand cultural interaction particularly during
Uh, times in the ancient world
If you think about where egypt is in relation to canaan, you know
It's
You know, it's but a stone's throw
um
so
You know
the the interaction again
Canaan during the leprons age has is divided up in provinces under egyptian control, right? There's always
fighting for canaan
Um, and that portion of the levant between the hitites and the egyptians, you know
It's a it's a subspecialization, but um, you know, so the idea that there's
Cultural interaction, I mean god look at look at the amarna period the amarna period just so that everybody knows and I
I write about this in book one
um
You know in the 14th century
When these letters date to these tablets date to
There is international diplomacy
Like there's international relationships between these great power these great powers
um
And so like egyptians and the assyrians and the hitites and mitanni and the babelonians and
They're all writing to each other as brothers
right there's a uh
There's a a type of
um
Style it's like an eclectic style. That's called
um
It's it's founded ugar it
which is sort of central
to a lot of these countries and um
It's like the style is sort of a mix of a bunch of different a bunch of these countries
sort of uh
You know, it's a little bit of egyptian style a little assyrian style
And I mean like the interaction
Between these uh places it's unsupp, it would be
It's just it's weird that that's even a question. Um, that there's this type of interaction. Of course, there's this type of interaction
uh
I just I find that to be a
It's just an odd
odd thing to
Not obviously for michael to bring up but for as an apologetic argument like
Why would there be egyptian things in it and of course, um
Freedman's written a book
2017 I think where he's talking about the connections between
um
Egypt and the exodus story
Uh, it's it's what it's what I would expect. I thought it doesn't surprise me. I guess that's what I'm saying
Michael has a really another really good question. Just drop in bombs today. What's most real?
No
No, so hitting queen answered that let me help y'all with that. No
and for those listening, um
Hidden queen has joined us for the q&a. Um, and she's been there drinking because of life. So, um, that's true, but also like
The answer to this question is no
Okay
Josh, do you have a do you have a different opinion or?
Uh, no, do you agree? Um, exactly
I
And I mean like see this this is what's fun about these questions like
Because what I think the question is asking obviously
I don't think michael's asking it this way, but when this question is asked by apologists
To me, it's the equivalent of asking it's even worse, but but it's roughly equivalent to big gilgamesh exist
Because
I would say
Yeah, there was a king named gilgamesh. We have pretty good evidence for that. I think
Um, and he ruled the city of orc
Just like in the epic, right? Um, but if somebody were asking the question is gilgamesh real
And did he run through a tunnel racing the sun to get to the end of the earth and did he meet the flood survivor like
and did he
You know like swim down
To get the the the plant of life and then lose it to a snake
Uh, while he was bathing on his way back to orc. No like what no that guy's not real. What are you talking about?
That's a story
Right and so like was there a guy named moses?
I mean
Maybe
And or maybe the story is based on somebody whose name wasn't mose. I mean who the fuck knows right like this likely an amalgamation of people
Yeah, like recreated a narrative out of it's much like
King david don't tell anyone
But it's it's it's like thinking about
Thinking about like did abraham like was there a guy named abraham or isek or jacob?
I mean
I mean
Maybe but I mean if you're asking if they're asking the question did abraham take isek
Up the mountain to sack her. No
Right. No
Yeah, it was obviously ishmael
As it says in islam obviously obviously that's corrected has been corrected
um
You mentioned i've got a question. Uh, you mentioned in the book
Um
The illuminate this illumination potentially threatens to jeopardize your faith if it does
I would like to suggest that you don't need to leave your religious tradition on these grounds alone
Uh, you also mentioned, uh, how you would be justified in doing so, but you don't have to I was wondering if you could talk about how someone can remain a believer
and come to
To terms with the fact that
A lot of what we read about in the old testament isn't historical. Of course
I mean the easy answer is to talk to megan, right? Um because megan's a christian
Um, but the way i'm talking to megan, so please don't
Unless you want to catch those hands, you know, exactly, right? Um
But the reality here is that
The way that we've often particularly in the state's been raised
um to think about the bible is that it's inspired and inerrant
right and
When you start with that
Then it becomes from this fundamentalist in a sort of position this interpretive framework it becomes
impossible
For something to be wrong
Right there there can't be a single contradiction. You hear it all the time not a single contradiction
Why is that like why can't there be one? Why is it that nobody blinks?
uh when they think about
You know reading through
You know, uh, I don't know
Sargon's eighth campaign like nobody when they think about you know
Or if they're reading through like eve and queen just got uh
christen's book on the chronicles babelonian chronicles
like
People people don't read that and say oh
contradiction here
Throw it all out. No people don't do that right because they don't consider
Royal inscriptions, uh, you know, new babelonian royal inscriptions to be inspired
and inerrant
um, excuse me, so
Um because of that there's not this pressure on the text
to be perfect
There's the rake and shovel method can be applied right rake in the good stuff shovel out the bad
You know in in this case rake in the details that we think from a historical standpoint work
Shovel out the ones that don't
um, for example, like does the does the new assyrian king
Run ahead of his army and and chop his way through the mountains because his army was slowing him down
And defeat the enemy single-handedly defeat iraar to single-handedly
No, uh, yes
Yeah, how do we know? Yeah, I don't have faith. How do you know? I don't have faith
that's right, but
But that doesn't mean that we don't think that the new assyrian king
fought iraar to
Right, we do think that
Um, so how do we do that like how do we?
How do we say that there was a battle here?
What that the story is not perfect
I mean propaganda. Yeah, exactly
If you will in the us of it
Like we recognize it and
And so I think that
If you can step away from the idea
That the bible has to be
perfect the bible has to be
um
Taken for the most part literally
Uh, that it has to be understood as uh inerrant
In its content its presentation
Life gets a lot easier
And a lot nicer because you don't have to say things like
But it was the good kind of slavery
Yeah, right
You don't have to say that anymore
Because you can say hmm product of its time
Yeah, product of its time the conversation becomes a whole lot more interesting. I've never noticed this with uh
Jordan Peterson seems to do this and like when you ask him like a question like did Jesus die on the cross?
He's like it'll take me two days to answer that question and you're like
I thought it was yes or no, but um, anyway, um, you know, so like, uh, you know, he
and he's got a lot of people who follow his style of um
Of interpreting holy texts and and the bible and I think that's becoming more popular. Um in non-fundamentalist circles
um
I think
So i'll tell i'll say two things
If it's okay
Yeah, one is I open up the exodus chapter with a story about my father
And you know without giving too much away, I guess not that that's like a critical part, but i'll do it
My dad is six four
And back in his prime. He was probably like 280, right? Like he's a big guy his hands are like baseball gloves
um
And he was a carpenter
uh worked in construction
and
When when things were
Like usually it was when something had gone wrong
Uh
But he knew that the the the solution was right around the corner
He would burst out into song
And he'd sing oh my lord knows the way through the wilderness. All I gotta do is follow
right
and
The reason that that was so moving to him
Had nothing to do with the historicity of the exodus or the wanderings
Right, it was if you would if you had asked him. Hey, did the exodus happen? Yeah. Yeah, definitely
But I mean like he didn't know anything about it
Right and it didn't matter
Because it's the story that matters
It's
What the tradition means that matters
It's the fact that what he took from this was that no matter what happens god is going to take care of me
He's going to work it out
All I got to do is trust him through it
And
You know that that's why these stories are so powerful and that's why they're so meaningful
So the second thing that I'll say in tying into that is if you've ever been in, uh
A more laid-back or a non fundamentalist, um
Sunday school class you've you've probably had the experience of someone that the teacher
Reading from a passage and then looking out to the group and saying now, what does that passage mean to you?
Right, what does that say to you and everybody comes much to be honest
like
You know it was something like the Psalms, you know
So you could read through a psalm and people it's very easy because poetic and people are like
Yeah, you know that makes me feel like this that makes me feel like that
um
And if you talk to people that are in like uh my the seminary that I went through they would say
Oh, that's horrible
horrible
Right because who cares what it means to you?
All we care about is the historical grammatical context, right? What is it that it meant then?
well
There are a lot of things in life that we don't give a fuck about what the author meant
right
Very few times do you go up to a painting and say now I wonder
The author meant about this because what it says to me how it speaks to me doesn't matter
Right, it's it's what the author meant
But no people put art in their houses because it speaks to them, right? It has meaning to them
in other words
It's how they respond
to it
And this type of reader response interpretations reader response theory
I wish that all religions would start operating based on a reader response theory
because
What reader response does is it keeps your own ethical system intact
It keeps your morality intact the one that we've like morally progressed to
It keeps its sound in other words
I don't read through exodus 21 and see about my slave or leviticus 25 and see about my slave and go
Oh, my ethical system says I shouldn't have a slave, but you know
This passage sort of says that maybe it's okay
That doesn't happen
You filter that shit out because what is that passage saying?
What is it that first Samuel 15 with the amalekites is saying? Well, it's saying that
You know, we we've got to make sure that we do what god says, right?
And what is god saying? Well, god is saying to me be a good person, right?
So I should really care for the poor because that's what it says in the gospels, right?
So I have to do that or god's going to be upset with me, right? Is that perfect? No, but it's a whole fuck ton better
right
It makes it so that you don't say things like samson was actually a really good guy for killing all those people
So anyway, yeah
That's a that's a really I love the analogy you have there of the painting because the painting
um
You know if if you have a painting of a beautiful sunset and mountains and stuff and someone came up to you and said
Was there really a sun there when he was painting or they were painting that image?
Like how do you know that this was do you have like the date and time?
The sun really stands still in the sky
Oh, that's a good question
I have questions. I need answers from the good doctor
um
According to the narrative. Yes
And I I have a feeling that that is coming from
inspiring philosophies recent video what inspiring philodendrons not me
couldn't be my
It's important to be able. Sorry. I I'll just talk about that very very briefly. It's important to be able to distinguish between
I mentioned earlier exodus 15
Right the song of the sea that early poem
That's older than sorry. That's older than the surrounding narrative of the exodus
And it's something that was brought into
and sort of inserted into the story of the exodus
Which is why when you read it you don't see
Like if you really are careful with it, it doesn't actually really tie in
Completely to what's going on in the narrative, but it fits enough, right?
um
So you have to be able to this is what this is what scholars are doing when they're talking about the like what was the function
What was this text doing right was it sits and leave and what was what is it that that that originally did this this fragment this section?
um
So when you look at joshua 10 and you're you're you know thinking about this
Sort of poetic section
That's in the middle of the chapter at the end of the chapter. I can't remember where it's at
It's like two or three verses, but they talk about the sun standing still
um
It's it's arguably an omen right or akin to or functioning somehow
Uh as maybe I had like I haven't dug down deep into or whatever, but like it it has uh connections to omena
But that doesn't mean that when it's brought into the
surrounding story that it continues to function
as an omen
And that's an important distinction. We have to be very careful about this because
um
When m&m brings in
uh
Joan Jets, I love rock and roll into
uh
Remind me in his song
We can look at the sections of Joan Jets song and talk about what they meant in their original context
But once they come into m&m song
There's a new meaning that's forged and you can't just bring in
Joan jet talking about like this boy by the jukebox, right? That's not
That's gone
Right. It's forged new meaning. This is what intertextuality does
So we've got to be careful with this stuff when we say well, it's an omen. So it doesn't mean that the sun stood still
The narrative is saying that it should still
That's the point. Um
So, yeah
Uh, just so everyone, uh, if everyone's came in come in late
We're just at the q&a section, but I did want to just promote
The book atheist handbook to the old testament volume one volume two has just come out and that's what we're talking about today
Another one of dr. Josh's books
Where's my copy?
tba to the old testament or slavery
Or is it and uh, if you like content like this, make sure you subscribe
We've just recently moved deep drinks to its own channel. So that's why we've got low subscriber numbers
So if you like this content subscribe, I'd really appreciate it
We just got over a hundred and I was able to snag that deep drinks
URL youtube.com such deep drinks. So really appreciate it guys and thanks for subscribing
Um, I do want to um wrap up in about 15 20 minutes
But I have a really great question from Michael Granado that I again third question. He's killing it today
um that I need an answer for because
The only thing my friends at work know about the exodus is what they hear from joe rogan
What do you think of moses was on mushrooms idea flowed around by historians who appear on joe rogan
Never trust anything that comes out of joe rogan's mouth
That's fucking crusty infected toenail
Never ever trust that bitch
am I lying no
Like there's nothing else to say
Right
Well, it's not me. Um, it's it's a guess. I I recently had a uh had someone actually you are joe rogan and you have somebody on your show
They are going to agree with you
But
Let's even cut out joe rogan, right? I I recently got given um this book from a friend
I haven't actually received yet, but he sent me a photo and it's literally
It's some historians who are talking about the possibility. I don't I don't have references to it
But I'll put links in the description after the fact
Talking about the possibility of psychedelics experience, you know happening around the middle east and that's maybe where the
Yeah, the ideas came I had a chat with someone about how the the magi
Um could have potentially been like there are certain texts that are preserved
that make it sound like they had a psychedelic experience as
Like that was their experience as opposed to them sort of like seeing a star and like physically following it
Yeah, and I'm not going to say that like either one is correct, but there are certainly texts that are like, huh?
Yeah, revelations is even a bit apocalyptic, you know, my favorite was ever
Josh do you have any thoughts on this from
from a big brain
scholarly perspective big brain
um
so I
Yeah, I'm definitely the expert on drugs
Sorry
I'm not
Y'all my wife megan the question is
The question is heathen queen very much. No, no, no, it's not me not that much
But y'all should go look at megan's photo on the twitter because she posted a picture of her hair
Uh, so i'm just promoting my wife personally. Sorry josh you're out. Um, yeah, sorry, but
Y'all should check it out. Anyway
That's all um
Yeah, I agree. Um
I am behind this I support this
Josh is on the floor to be honest
What I said
Um
So
There is an entire section in
uh, this
multi-volume work
That a seriologist use called the it's rla
It's uh, realexicon derisuro gi. It's like it's like our encyclopedia sort of
um
It's like the uh anchor bible dictionary if you're familiar with that six volume
Anyway, but for a seriology and there's a section called flora and fauna
um
I have not read it
Because again, it's like a subspecialty
Uh people people dedicate their lives one of the things that is true though is that
It's difficult
There are different layers that you have to go through to get at what exactly is this plant
Right so like when people try to classify a particular tree that's talked about in a text
It's hard to do because like you might translate it as like an oak or something
But what does it mean because over there an oak is not
You know, I can't I'm not like an expert in that but like
You know that the type of like a birch it's not the same necessarily
And so now it's not only looking at this sumerian word or the circadian word
Or this heber word and trying to say okay
This is a one-to-one equivalent with this type of tree
But it's the type of tree that's there right and it it can be difficult to to line those things up all that being said
like I don't know
Again, I don't have a lot of experience either historically or
Presently
With drugs
I have seen a bong once though
Oh
No, I mean I wasn't smoking
No, no, I know
You can hit me up offline if you want to hear about josh and the old uh, mary jane, you know
There is exactly one story
Um
So, uh, I sent a private message josh, but I got one last question. Um
I need to know this right so i'm up to chapter five where it says
um
Where you're gonna talk about like the brutality the genocide the fun stuff right of the old testament
And I I don't just have to know I just give me give me a spoiler
Is first samuel 15
Is that actually killing infants?
Like as I use it all the time
To to talk about the inconsistency of christian morality when it comes to like things like pro-life or anti
Whatever anti lgbt stuff. Um, I point out this scripture where they kill infants and
Stuff can you talk about that a little bit? Yeah
So for anybody that doesn't know for samuel 15 is sort of one of the go-to texts that people use
Because it's a very clear divine command
from yaoi
to sol king sol saying go
and kill everybody
men women
children
infants on my way
Down to the cattle, right?
and
What the cattle ever do
Yeah, as a as a vegetarian such vegan. That's i'm like that's ridiculous like yeah, anyway keep going
and the the problem is
That what many christian apologists want to do is say it's hyperbole
It's hyperbole
So, you know like and the example that they always give is uh
You know like our football team massacred the other football team
I didn't really kill anybody, right? It's just hyperbole
um
And what they'll do is they'll cite other ancient nearestern sources
Other ancient nearestern texts for example from like sanakarib
and say
And say look here is an example where he said he killed everybody every living soul
But then he reorganized the district for the people that were there like how did that happen, right?
So clearly doesn't mean that he killed everybody
And so that becomes the sort of justification for
Identifying this as hyperbole now
What I say in the book is that I I keep hammers away from my four-year-old son
And the reason that I keep hammers away from him is because when he picks it up everything becomes a nail
right and
That's what I see happening with hyperbole and christian apologists
Right. They they they get this hyperbole hammer
Right, and it's it becomes it's everywhere. Oh violence hyperbole. It's a high. It's hyperbole. It's hyperbole
Okay, is there hyperbole? Is there ancient nearestern?
right
Is this something that happens in the ancient nearestern? Absolutely. Do we see in the heber bible? Yes, I think so
So
Does that mean that it's everywhere?
No, and what I talk about in the book is there are certain
What you have to do is you have to look at the story itself
And ask the question
What happens if this is hyperbole? What happens to the narrative itself?
In the example of first aim of 15 and there are other passages that we talk about but just very briefly
In first aim of 15 you have to ask the question
What's the hyperbole?
Hmm
Because when you make the person
Articulate what is hyperbolic?
The narrative falls apart right? So if they say oh well god's command to kill everybody who's just hyperbole
Then why did it's all getting trouble?
Hmm, right. I mean
It's also it bothers me so much too just to just to drunkenly interject
but it bothers me so much when apologists do this because
like
Like for example, another one is like, you know, jesus was supposed to return in his jesus lifetime in his disciples lifetime
It says it right there
right and when you
When you talk to apologists, they'll translate it to say the exact opposite of what it's saying
And that's essentially like well, you know with the the killing of the infants and everyone did they kill everyone?
Well, no, they didn't kill everyone. Okay, so you're saying that
It's saying the exact opposite of what it says. It says it killed everyone. You're saying you didn't kill anyone
Didn't kill everyone. Listen, it's gonna say whatever I want it to say
Did jesus did jesus die on the cross?
Well, did you not die on the cross and that was all just hyperbole like where do you draw the line?
And what measuring stick are you using and wherever it works for me personally?
Yeah
Is it's clear to me that these people are using some internal subjective
understanding of morality to critique what they call objective morality
Thank god
Thank god that at least in these places. Thank frank that they're doing it here
Like thankfully they're not saying hey slavery's here. We should do that at least they're fighting it, right?
They're leaning on their own understanding. Thank frank
Yeah, yeah, brother in christ
I'm getting uh, I'm getting some errors in the the uh, the stream yards. You guys noticing that at all
errors
Oh by josh
Okay, hang on i'm getting oh, he just he said he's coming back in a sec. He just takes me
It's the second coming of yeshua
Yes
What do you think of uh
One Samuel 15
I don't know what that verse is to be honest after a look at that
One Samuel 15 is where god commanded these flights to go kill every
baby
boy
woman
child
grandmother
um, oh it's fucking
genocide
Oh, hang on
I'm getting some like interference
raptured
Wait, is kent fovin gonna come on? Well, oh hang on guys something. Uh-oh hang on
Yeah, good evening folks, uh, kent hoven here and a dinosaur adventure land. Uh, how we how we all doing?
All right, here you guys talking about how then you rocked up
Yeah, I heard that like kent hoven can't be like alone with women
How do you know?
Yeah, we're not gonna deal with that uh not not tonight. Okay, because i'm here to talk about you atheists right and whacking you off
That's what we're here to do. We're gonna whack awesome. Okay. I'm here to help how did how many more okay?
How did you get how did you get on the stream? This is ridiculous? Do you?
Yeah, you probably don't know this uh, but uh, I mean I kind of bunk
I bunk here at the bone household
Uh, hey, they let me uh, they let me run out the basement. Okay. Yeah, but if I put them to work
That's that's the key. Uh, because i'm here now. Okay. Yeah
Kent hoven is their au pair. I know y'all didn't know that
Yeah, that's uh, well, well, and that's a woman's job. Uh, yeah
What are you? I what are you doing out of the kitchen there? Uh, even queen? I can't can't be talking to you
I don't I don't know where dr. Josh is uh, he said he was coming right back
But maybe uh, now that we got you here, uh, not ken hoven. Do you uh, have any thoughts on what dr
Josh has been saying tonight? Obviously you're
Do you have any thoughts at all?
Yeah, well, I mean again, I can't talk to women. Uh, because it's against my religion
Okay, just like evolution is your religion. Okay. Um, yeah, uh, but uh, you see the problem with uh, with a doc
You know with with a doctor joch, of course, he doesn't have a phc like I do
Of course, I've got the real one right because that's i'm ken hoven taught high school science 15 years
But the problem I think with uh, you atheists is that you think that uh, somebody this somebody like josh
Can can really lead you down the right path
But he can't the reason is he doesn't have the holy spirit inside of him and you need the holy spirit to be able to do
This
Wait, has the holy spirit
Come inside of you. Yes, you know and even queen. I think you understand this because the holy spirit comes inside everyone
That uh, that that asks not mean not mean personally
I have to ask you have to say holy spirit. Holy spirit. I want you to come inside me. Okay
And uh, and he's here to help. Okay
Yeah, just like what you watch are in the office protection for the holy spirit
Or you're all just like raw dog and that shit. Well, you know, I think you're uh, you're probably thinking of those whale penises
That's what you're doing because you atheist are perverts. Okay 14 foot of whale penis. You know, that's true. Yeah, that's true. Yeah
Just like that godless engineer
What's with the whale penises? I've heard that you you had a conversation with godless engineer and he mentioned something like
Whale penises or something. Yeah, that guy's a pervert, right?
And so that's uh, he wants to talk about those whale penises and he heard me and he heard he heard when I said and uh,
Of course, he probably thinks that his great grandfather was soup
And of course, uh, that's we know that that's uh, dogs never produce non dogs, right?
So we understand that and of course whale penises
Only produce other whale penises. Okay, you can't you can't get a non whale penis from a whale penis. Okay. I'm here to help
Uh, well, uh, not can I need to ask? I've been following your um interactions with um,
Aaron rar. I was wondering do you have any thoughts on on aron rars?
Uh, projects he's currently doing
Yeah, well erin, I think you're pronouncing his name incorrectly. Uh, erin, uh, yeah, and of course, uh, we know his real name
I won't say it here because I want to try to be nice. I have a question
What about whale vaginas? Oh
See, I expect that from an atheist pervert like yourself
That's me. I'll answer the question, Kent. Uh, yes, I I don't know much about vaginas. Uh, to be to be honest with you
So, uh, you know, but it's because I'm a god
Why is the fucking Sahara? Do you feel me?
I'm sorry
These perverts here, uh, David, I'm gonna have to talk to you because I don't think you're as much of a pervert
Unless you're thinking about those weapons. I'm trying to have a very respectful conversation. I need I just need to know
Uh, will you ever have a conversation with uh, aron again?
Well, I think uh, and you know the problem with erin is that uh, you know, he thinks that uh, he got the best of me and
Of course, uh, we all know that he didn't because uh, he's an atheist right now. That's what I do with the atheists
I'll whack them off
Uh, but I might have been after the show
Yeah, well
Again, you know, that's what your mind is. Uh, it's uh, it's you're suppressing the truth and unrighteousness, right?
You need the holy spirit to come inside of you. I sure do. I sure do. It's been a while
What do you feel son ken ham does he have a better creation as fun park or
I mean, you know, uh, of course, I think that uh, everybody ought to come down to dino adventure
I'm gonna give you a deal come down in 59 95. Okay, you can get my video series. I'll tell you how to get down here
Okay, uh, but it also tell you about the 17 types of evolution, right? There's cosmic evolution and there's evolution of my car
Uh, and the water rains down on the outdoors. Okay
Okay, well, thank you so much. Uh, not can hoven. I think I'm gonna have to uh, ask you to leave now and I'm going to
Get me out. Yeah, I understand it's great. Kick me out. That's fine
Because you know that you can't handle uh, what it is that I have to say because I you know, I'm just gonna start preaching here
And uh, you're gonna have to get me on I say, you know, each of you uh, each of you need to under
Well, this is an interesting um part because we're ending with heathen queen when it's dr. Josh's uh episode
Thank you everyone for watching
Make sure you like favorite subscribe and obviously check out
The books and check out volume two which is in
The description
I thought he was coming back
No, he's not coming back. I don't I do not ken hoven is gone
But no, I thought no no not ken hoven. I think dr. Josh is coming back, but I don't know where josh is
Dr. Josh is left. Who knows who knows?
Dr. Just left but thanks everyone. Thanks for checking out deep drinks podcast where the drinks are deep and the conversation is deeper
Let me know what you think of the first live episode. It was awesome. Cheers
