But what about when Paul says in 1 Corinthians 4 verse 3, just feel it, bro.
What is it?
I'm kidding.
Oh, okay, I was like, wait, are you paraphrasing?
And I was like, wait a minute, let me read check the reference on this.
No, you don't.
The other aspect of why I'm a Christian is I think it's the best explanation to humanity.
Why we are the way we are, what we need in life, what is driving us,
what is going to be the most likely to call us to be the virtuous agents we feel like we ought to be.
I know people the exact opposite to you, where you go like 1 plus 1 equals 4 and they're like,
yeah, but it feels like 5 and you're like, oh man, you like it, yeah.
Are they even human?
So welcome everyone to the Deep Drinks podcast.
My name is Dave and I have with me Michael Jones.
Michael Jones is the founder and director of Inspiring Philosophy,
a non-profit Christian organization with a goal of spreading and defending the gospel of Jesus.
Inspiring philosophy's videos take complex and sometimes niche theories on theology and explain
them through a simple and modern lens.
That last little bit was my explanation.
Do you agree, Michael, that you can sometimes do that or?
Yeah, I think that's fair.
Yeah, I think like I've watched some of your most of your videos and I'm like,
man, this guy just like, you don't avoid the big problems.
You go straight for them and you go, okay, how can we explain this using,
you know, with the Bible?
And I love that.
I think it's really good.
It's a lot more honest than the Kent Hoven types.
Well, I mean, anything's more honest than younger creationism as far as I'm concerned.
So you're not a young earth creationist, I take it.
No, I'm a theistic evolutionist.
Okay.
Okay, cool.
Sorry, just the video cut out for a second there.
Cool.
And we're also drinking one of your favorite drinks today on the Deep Drinks podcast.
What's that?
It's Scotch.
We've both got a bottle of largable and 16, which is one of my favorite whiskies.
And so it is a little dream.
It's the whiskey of Ron Swanson.
So you can't go wrong with that.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Yeah, it's good stuff.
It's from Isla, right, in Scotland.
It's from Isla.
I'm told it's Isla, but I've been pronouncing it Isla and I've been told that's wrong.
So apparently it's Isla.
So my bad, but I mean, I'm not, pronunciation is not my thing.
I sometimes call it Islay.
Just to piss everyone off.
So before we start, so in this interview, we're going to go through a bit of Michael's journey
and why he believes in God.
And then we're going to have a bit of a Q&A where your questions will be answered at the end.
And but first, I want to read a quote from a very wise man.
And the quote is, you should always go away from a conversation feeling like you've learned something
and that you've gone some new things to talk about.
I hope atheists do that with me and I would like to do that in return.
Is that?
That's you.
Okay.
I was like, wait a minute.
I said that.
I was like, I was listening going, that sounds good.
Hold on a second.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Now I was listening to your Q&A in preparation for this and I was like, wow, that's really good.
And that's how I like to approach conversations as well.
So I hope we can have a great conversation.
So, so Michael, I'd love to learn your videos are heavily on the logical side of things and
philosophical side of things in Christianity.
Your apologetics, you take evolution and you get it to actually,
well, you show ways that can fit within the Bible's framework and things like that.
And, but I'd love to know how it all started.
Like how you became a Christian.
Did you grow, did you grow up a Christian or did you have like a Pentecostal spiritual moment or?
No, I can't say I ever had a Pentecostal spiritual moment.
I've been to a Pentecostal church and I was like, well, that's never happened to me.
And I'm not sure if I want it to.
So bye.
That was a short experience.
I was raised in a Christian home, like most Americans were.
I went to a very fundamentalist church growing up.
It's now, it became, I went through, when I was going there,
I was going through the process of it becoming a mega church.
So that was an interesting experience.
But it was a very much a young earth creationist church, very fundamentalists,
very much raptures coming.
Everyone get ready.
It's probably going to happen in our lifetime and the earth is only 6,000 years old.
And I also went to public school and I was learning contradictory things.
So I remember as a kid having books on dinosaurs and some books having
humans riding dinosaurs and some books having humans, or dinosaurs lived millions of years
and humans have never seen a dinosaur.
And I was like, wait a minute, what?
So I was a young age or as a conflict kind of happening here.
And I think around seventh grade, I remember having a cousin that was very much
into evolution and very much had a lot of friends that were atheist in school.
And I just slowly started to become a little more agnostic.
I got bullied at church.
Like I got a concussion one time at church,
bad for being thrown down the stairs.
So I didn't have a good experience of church,
but I had a lot of really fun and nice friends that were atheists at my school.
So you could kind of see the direction I was being pulled in.
And I remember being in church questioning evolution and one of the youth helpers,
like a parent, overhearing the conversation.
And next week, he's like, you know, I heard what you were saying
and I just wanted to bring you this book.
And it was like Ken Ham's book, Evolution the Live.
And I was like, thanks.
So yeah.
So then how did I become a Christian for real?
It was a long process.
It didn't happen overnight.
For one thing, I started trying to study the evidence against Christianity.
And I think maybe it was just fate or just a stroke of luck.
But I came across like the early days of the web.
And a lot of the websites I was coming on was claiming things like Jesus never existed.
And he was a copy of Horace, or of Zeus.
Now, the only problem was I was very big into ancient Greco-Roman mythology,
North mythology.
I knew a lot about Egyptian mythology.
And I was in high school able to say this is wrong.
Like Horace wasn't resurrected or dead for three.
This is just stupid.
So at the time.
I think that's in Bill Ma's documentary even.
And you're like, this is wrong.
Like, yeah.
Sorry.
Oh, yeah.
But I was seeing it even before Zeitgeist came out.
I just was finding these old Comic Sans.
Yeah.
I was finding these old Comic Sans websites on AOL, like that kind of stuff.
And like, so I thought in my youth, I was like, well, this is really bad.
Let me try to take a look at the evidence for Christianity.
I did have some pretty good parents.
I did have some other peers that were kind of saying, hey, check out this guy.
Of course, Reed C.S. Lewis.
So I devoured C.S. Lewis.
And I think that is when I became back to Christianity.
The only problem is just after that, I was in the military and someone invited me over
to watch a debate between Michael Schirmer and Ken Hoven.
And then because of that debate, I went through a short Young Earth creation streak.
But then I eventually got out of that.
So I've been all over the place, I guess you could say.
So that's really interesting to me because my background is like I grew up a Christian.
And my background, though, is I had a really intense experience at a Pentecostal youth ministry
where people at school called me Captain Christian because of how much I flipped.
I went from being a depressed kid to being like, run on Bible studies on my lunch break
and just giving Bibles out to people and preaching.
And I was just obsessed and became so committed.
And it was because I had an intense spiritual experience.
Your perspective of Christianity is so foreign to me because a lot of my church would see as like,
well, you've got to have that experience to become a Christian.
And I found it really interesting that you don't have that perspective at all.
You have arrived there through...
A lot of reading, a lot of debating, a lot of knights just debating myself,
sort of maybe like Martin Luther style, almost.
Not to that extreme, though.
I don't think I was talking with the devil or anything.
Did you have a Nile anything into a church?
No.
Thought about it sometimes.
No, it just, it was a long experience for me.
I never had that kind of spiritual experience.
And I worry about those sometimes too, because of one verse in the Bible, Jeremiah 17.9,
the heart is wicking to the seat full above all else who can understand it.
A lot of times those spiritual experiences, they give you this great emotional rush,
but when it dies and when you sort of move on from it, what is your ground built upon?
You can't have Christianity built on just these emotions because we know the heart,
the emotions of the heart change so much.
So I'm thankful that my foundation is more on a rational inquiry.
There are a lot of studying and reading, and I feel like that fits more with
what I see how the apostles work in the book of Acts.
Yeah, sure, cool.
I remember I've had a lot of people ask me, how can you deny the experiences that you've had
in church and things like that?
Speaking in tongues or people falling over and passing out or miracles and things like that.
My go-to is always, I can't explain those things, but I just don't attach a truth claim.
I don't attach truth to those things anymore.
I don't say, these things happen, therefore, all these things in the Dornomination is true.
I agree with you.
I mean, Mormons tell me the same thing.
I remember I lived close to a park called Reed Park, and Mormon missionaries were
walking around talking to people, and they told me the same thing.
Like, you just pray, you'll have an experience of Jesus and God and know Mormonism is true.
And I'm like, look, man, you want to show me Mormonism is true.
It's simple.
Show me the evidence of horses and metal weapons in the new age before Europeans showed up.
Give me something like that.
People disagree, but I've gone through a lot of the evidence for the New Testament.
I'm like, I can argue for it.
You can't do that with them.
Yeah.
If they did show up, like, let's say they uncovered, are you saying like horses and
metal armor in America before?
That's what the Book of Mormon claims.
If that did show up, yeah, if that did show up, if that just unearthed, would you be like,
oh, I'm a Mormon now?
Would that convince you of Mormonism?
No, but it would be a step in the right direction.
It's like apologetics doesn't win people to Christ, but it clears the grass so you can
see clearly.
And when it comes to Mormonism, those weeds are so high up.
I can't even look past it to give it a fair hearing at this point because that's part of
their case and they can't present that kind of stuff.
There's so many problems with how America is portrayed in the Book of Mormon that it's just
at the point where it's like, I can't even take it seriously.
Like, show me the golden plates, please.
And then I'll consider this.
Yeah, but they're such nice people.
So, they dress really nicely as well.
Yes, they have the magic underwear and everything.
But I mean, that's not truth.
You can be a very nice, like, Molek worshiper.
I mean, that doesn't mean it's true.
Well, like you said, a lot of your atheist friends were the nice ones and you were getting
thrown down the stairs at church.
So, I mean, it doesn't, being nice doesn't mean anything.
Yeah.
Yeah, and I just to add, I wanted to, it was a struggle for me for years and I was like,
I don't want to be on the side of these bullies.
But if this is where the evidence is taking me, I need to try to be fair and open to that.
So, would you like, so would you, I'm just trying to think how to word this.
So, you, so you never actually, you never, was there ever a moment that you didn't call
yourself a Christian in your journey?
Of course, yeah.
I would say part of middle school, early parts of high school, definitely that kind of time.
I mean, I didn't, I wasn't vocal about it because I'm an insurer and I didn't want the
attention and I knew that was going to happen.
I talked to people at church about it, like people I would like, if I had a one-on-one
conversation, I'd bring up going, you know, like, you know, do we really know the earth is that
young and like, you know, how come we don't see miracles around us today and like, you know,
that kind of stuff.
And why isn't Jesus returned yet?
But I mean, I didn't want to like, I wasn't going to get on a soapbox and like tell the world,
especially because I didn't, I didn't want, I didn't want, I knew what would happen if I did
that.
And like, it would have been like a shock and all and people would have been like, oh,
it's the end of the world for this kid.
You know, it's, I was more private.
And I, and so I understand, you know, to some degree, what it's like when an atheist comes out to
their family and says they're an atheist because I, I didn't want to do that.
No, I wouldn't say I was ever an atheist.
I just was agnostic.
I thought, I always thought there might be some creator.
I just wasn't sure about Christianity for a short time.
Yeah.
It's, it's interesting how that word atheist is like so demonized.
What was your perspective on atheists?
Or like, actually, no, I'm not going to reword that because straight away,
you think of Matt DeLahunty screaming at like people in the 80s.
That actually wasn't what popped in my head.
But what popped into your mind?
I mean, my first thought was honestly decent people, at least who I have experienced.
I don't, I don't come across a lot of like hard core atheists that you see like on that kind of
like mentality, what they're getting at.
I mean, most, I worked my job before I was doing my channel full time.
I was like the only Christian there and my boss was an atheist and all my coworkers were
atheists and we get along just fine.
Like it wasn't like, you know, like they just didn't want to talk about religion.
Okay, fine.
I'm not going to bring it up because you made it pretty clear not to talk about it.
So let's move on.
Yeah, except for when they're eating babies and that's something obviously.
Well, I mean, the ribs are great.
The baby back ribs.
Delicious.
Exactly.
I do actually want to, I do want to talk to you one time about,
I heard you made some remarks about vegetarianism or veganism.
I'd love to chat to you about that one time, not that it's in relevance to anything,
but I just think we could have a cool back and forth with that because it's always a topic
that's spicy.
Excuse the pun.
Are you a vegan?
I'm a vegetarian, but I think that's worse.
Like, I think that's anyway, I think that's worse than the average omnivore because I've
like taken the time to investigate.
You go, this is wrong.
I'll still like cheese though.
So I think it's really, I think it's just, I think it's worse.
So it's not coming from places like Varsha or anything, but it's an interesting conversation.
So have you ever had, you've never had a spiritual experience or would you classify
praying in your room and do you believe you have a relationship with Jesus?
I mean, yeah, I don't know how I would verify that.
I mean, it's like, what am I supposed to say beyond things that maybe I may have personally
felt God like working in my life or revealing things to me or like, there's nothing I can
really say about that because A, it's personal.
B, it's not what I base my faith on and it's not what I should base my faith on.
And there's no way I could ever really prove that it's not just like wishful thinking or
my own internal monologue.
So I mean, I don't worry about that kind of stuff.
I mean, my foundation of my faith is not going to be that kind of spiritual experience or giving
an emotional feeling, even if they may happen at times.
Like there are times in my life where I feel like I felt God's presence or I've just,
I've heard the right worship song and I just, it just really moved me or made the hair on my
arms to end up.
But I mean, that's between me and God and that's not something I could really speak more on,
if that makes sense.
So are you kind of in the camp?
I mean, I don't want you to be blaspheming the Holy Spirit or anything, but do you think
that those things could possibly be psychological in nature and just like a deep love for God or
something like that, that gives you those feelings and those feelings may not necessarily be
something spiritual?
Or do you think that everything is spiritual?
Well, in a sense, I'm an idealist.
So yeah, I think in some sense, everything is spiritual or mental.
That's more ontological sense, but I mean, it could just be psychological.
I could just be like, this is my worldview and I'm going to interpret things through
my worldview because everybody does that and just trying to work through that.
But I mean, at the end of the day, I don't really worry too much about that because I
don't dwell on that.
I dwell on the research I'm doing or the videos I'm making or the conversations I'm
having.
That's mostly what I tend to focus on.
Cool.
And just to shout out your channel, Christian, atheist, Muslim, anyone should go check them
out.
The production value is insane and you've got subjects on almost anything, right?
What's your favorite video or the video?
My favorite video is the one I just posted because I just love how that came together.
The origins of Young Earth creationism because I had a donor volunteer to start helping me edit
and I've just been able to hire him and he put together this entire video.
I wrote research to record it and he made all the video for it.
It just came out phenomenal.
Okay, I was going to ask that because the animations are a little different to your
other videos and they're great.
They're phenomenal.
I mean, your other stuff was amazing too.
We're going to try to do more videos like this, but it's very time consuming.
Not every video can be like that.
Yeah, exactly.
No, it was awesome.
So I've had people talk to me and say that they ask me, why don't you just pray and ask
God for the answers?
Or they ask me, it seems like your perspective on God is quite logical and you're never going
to find an answer in logic is what they'll say to me.
I've had people stop me and my wife's Christmas party and show me evidence of people getting
out of wheelchairs on their phones in Kenya or somewhere and says, how can you deny this?
And we've went to a discussion.
And at the end, they said, you're never going to find answers logically.
You have to find them spiritually.
You have to get answers from God.
What's your perspective on the perspective of, let's say we didn't have logic and reason
or you couldn't use that to justify your faith?
What's your perspective on hearing from God?
Or I guess being led by God?
I mean, I don't even know how to answer that because I don't agree with that mentality.
I mean, if we don't have logic and reason, you don't have answers.
That's how you get to answers.
It's not from emotions or wishful thinking.
You're searching your heart, which is deceitful and lying to you all the time.
So when people tell you that, I'm just like, my first thought was,
I would want to tell them to shut the hell up because what are you talking about?
You don't get answers to a reason.
That's literally what reasoning is meant to do to get you to answers.
Why would you even?
Just to push back on that, a lot of people in my denomination,
my Pentecostal denomination, I used to go to, I used to be a youth pastor and actually
would say that people have spiritual blinders on or they have the spirit of Jezebel sitting on
their shoulders or they would have, when Paul was blind for three days,
they would consider that like a spiritual thing and they would say that
people have the spiritual blinders on and you cannot get through to them.
They need a spiritual breakthrough to break that perspective.
So I just recently was reading a book by Jonathan Joshua May on moral reasoning
and he was replying to a lot of people like Jonathan Haidt who argue that all of our moral
reasoning comes from motions and he's arguing, well, yeah, motions play a role in our moral
reasoning, but so does logic and reasoning and, you know, it's a mix of those things.
And I don't see how you could get through to people like with that if there was even a chance
without reasoning with them.
I mean, this is what Isaiah does and the opening chapters of the book of Isaiah come,
let us reason together.
Jesus in Matthew six is like, look, if you're worried, if your father cares for you,
don't don't just believe in your heart and have a magical experience and wait for the
Holy Spirit to reveal to you.
He says, consider the lilies of the field.
Consider the birds of the air.
Now reason with me.
God is going to take care of them when he take care of you.
Act 17.
The barons were more righteous because they searched the scriptures to verify Paul was right.
Paul in his letters is trying to get people to reason over and over again.
Hey, Corinthians, you said this, think about this though.
Have you thought about this?
Reason with me here on this.
I mean, you got a reason with people and that's through the Bible.
Sure, there is an aspect where maybe some people are so set in their ways.
And this is human nature.
It happens on all sides.
People are so set in their ways that nothing is ever going to convince them.
I mean, take people like Aron Ra and Ken Hoven.
I mean, they're two peas in a pod.
You're never going to convince them they're wrong on anything.
You know, and like I said, I've seen atheists go after Aron Ra for this and I've seen Christians
like myself go after Ken Hoven for this.
We acknowledge that some people just like that.
But if there are those people kind of more in the middle,
how else are you going to try to talk to them about reason with them and get them to think
about new perspectives and try to get them to be open to new ideas?
I mean, that's literally what the New Testament is doing over and over again.
But what about when Paul says in 1 Corinthians 4 verse 3, just feel it, bro.
What is it?
I'm kidding.
Oh, okay.
I was like, wait, are you paraphrasing?
And I was like, wait a minute.
Let me red check the reference on this.
No, you don't.
I will feel it, bro.
You got any questions?
Just feel it, bro.
Sorry, I do have an Aussie, a dry Aussie sense of humor.
And while I've been drinking a little bit of whiskey.
So and I had a little, a little pre-drink as well,
even though it's 11 30 in the morning here,
because I was, I wanted to make sure I was relaxed and ready to jam in this interview.
So yeah, so I did want to talk about though.
So we've talked a lot about the logical and philosophical sides of like,
that's essentially why you believe like,
in no booming voice from heaven is going to change.
Like the logic has to work for you.
Is that correct?
Like it's not going to, you're not going to one day just start crying
and then realize all this logic and philosophy was wrong.
You'd have to arrive at, you'd have to, you know,
you'd have to, the logic would have to work.
It'd have to be internally consistent.
Well, I mean, and I heard a booming voice from heaven,
I would think logically about that.
I mean, okay, here, I'm actually hearing a voice.
What is it saying?
How is it going to affect my experience and the evidence personal for me?
I mean, I just, I don't understand how you could not think like that.
Maybe it's just the way I'm wired.
I just feel like, you know, I'm never just going to be like,
oh, I just really want, you know, this, this mysterious thing to be true.
And I don't really have to think about it beyond that.
I can't help but think about it.
My wife says sometimes I got a woman's brain because I think too much.
Yeah, it's interesting because I know people the exact opposite to you
where you can, you go like one plus one equals four.
And they're like, yeah, but it feels like five.
And you're like, oh, man, you like it.
Yeah.
Are they even human?
Like it just, I can't even understand how that works in their head.
I can't even get there.
And I think that we're a bit more on the same page with that when it comes to that
because I don't understand it either, but it works for a lot of people.
And a lot of people will be saying the same things to us.
Like, I don't know why you're thinking about this stuff so much.
And I guess we're all different.
We're all special, I guess, special little sunflowers.
So the next, the next step section before we get into the Q&A is I'd like to actually go
through your, why you believe in God, like what evidence that you do have.
And when we spoke over Twitter, messages back and forth,
you said there were two things.
You said there was a logical side of things that get you to a creator.
So they get you to like, there is a creator of the universe or there is a God.
And then after you've fixed that problem, you move on to,
and therefore Christianity is that God.
Like, so you have two parts of it.
Is that right?
Yeah.
I mean, they're intertwined because I don't think reasoning happens without emotion or reason.
We're always as humans weighing and using both aspects.
But I mean, the way I started to get there is a cumulative case.
I mean, for one, I start with what evidence do we have for God's existence?
Well, I mean, you don't really, it's about comparing worldviews.
It's about comparing naturalism to theism, which is going to have,
which is going to explain far more with less.
So which worldview as a whole is going to have more explanatory scope,
explanatory power, more plausibility is going to be the least ad hoc.
And when I see things like cosmological arguments,
teleological, moral arguments, arguments for consciousness,
the stuff I've been using for digital physics and that kind of stuff,
I just think theism is more personmonious.
It's simpler.
It explains far more with less.
It doesn't have all these open-ended questions.
It doesn't have different explanations or different aspects.
It can explain it all with one simple thing, namely,
there is a personal force behind the universe.
Then, so, I mean, even if you could de-convert me from Christianity,
I would still be a theist.
Like, I just feel like there's a lot of good evidence in that direction.
And when you read, you know, debates between like,
or, you know, competing arguments between people like the atheist,
Graham Oppie or Richard Swinburne,
I think Richard Swinburne comes out on top with the simplicity of his worldview.
So then it's like, okay, well, if there is a moral God,
if there is a all-loving God, he would have likely revealed himself to us.
What is the most likely religion out there that's going to have the most evidence?
And so, again, there is another cumulative case.
I'm not a minimal facts guy when it comes to the resurrection.
I want to know there's good evidence to support Old Testament.
I want to know there's good evidence to support New Testament
and the reliability of the New Testament.
Then it's building up facts from there, like, for the resurrection.
I mean, that's going to be the core.
That's what Paul says is the core of our faith.
And I think there's a lot of good evidence for it.
I mean, even as Anthony Flu admitted,
when he never became a Christian,
but he said, I mean, the resurrection is that one miracle
that has a lot more evidence than all other sorts of miracle claims.
So, I mean, going through the evidence,
for me, it's very clear that that is going to be the simplest explanation.
Now, you know, I'll get atheists would say,
yeah, but miracles are always the least probable.
It's more extraneous.
I mean, yeah, but I feel like that's more of a quality comparison.
I'm interested in quantity of assumptions, quantity of explanations.
And I think when it comes to the quantity,
the resurrection explanation is going to be the simplest in terms of that.
So, again, it's applying that same standards,
explanatory scope, power, least ad hoc, plausibility, illumination.
Now, when I say that, people kind of go like, okay, great, but like, you know,
it, you know, why be a Christian?
And so what I kind of get from that is more of like the emotional aspect.
Like, if Christianity is true, what does this even mean?
Like, what is sort of going on here?
And the other aspect of why I'm a Christian is I think it's the best explanation to humanity.
Why we are the way we are, what we need in life, what is driving us,
what is going to be the most likely to call us to be the virtuous agents.
We feel like we ought to be what is going to drive us to be a good person.
And what's going to be the most fulfilling in terms of humanity's role in the universe,
how we see ourselves and if there's a God exists, how we would relate to us.
I don't think Islam comes close.
I don't think aspects of Hinduism come close.
I think Judaism gets there, but it's incomplete.
It doesn't have the final chapter that brings everything the Old Testament is pointing to
together. I think Christianity brings it together.
And I, you know, recently, right now, I'm reading Tom Holland's book, Dominion,
and I'm just like, and he's an atheist.
And I'm like, yes, the power of the story.
I get what you're saying here, Tom.
Like, that's it.
It's this power, the power of the story of this, this popper who was raising the backwaters of Galilee,
but he's also the creator of the universe.
And he comes down, lives this depressing, sad life and dies to death.
We should die.
It's that power of the story that Holland is getting at that I think Christianity has.
It really makes it excel in terms of worldviews.
Yeah, that's what's really interesting.
Do you think, what do you think about like, I know, I already know that you're going to be like,
it's going to make you like your stomach drop because I know, like, if your brain works or
anything like mine, you just, it's annoying.
It's a, so it's a yuck way of thinking about things.
But what do you think about the idea that every religion, let's say that, let's say,
I don't believe this, but let's say spirituality exists or some form and every religion around
the world is somehow getting parts of the answers right.
And there's a whole lot more we don't understand.
So like, let's say Christianity isn't necessarily true, but there are parts of it that
are true. Hinduism has got some parts that are true. Buddhism, the Jains, what do you think
about like the mountain theory of God, that we're all on this mountain going towards God and
there are paths on the way up?
You know, that's sort of like the blind man and the elephant analogy.
Like, we're all like the blind man touching the elephant, we're all getting an aspect of it.
You know, the problem with that analogy is like, is one is Leslie Nubigan pointed out, is it?
It's not written from the perspective of one of the blind men touching the elephant or one of
the people climbing the mountains. It's written from the perspective of somebody
who sees the whole picture and can tell us that. So it's it's criticizing the very thing it is
also claiming to have, which is the truth. They can see that all the religions are just
these different aspects of things. And really, they're all just going in the same direction.
I mean, it's it's just assuming that there's a full elephant.
It is. It's presenting a standard it doesn't even hold itself to.
Could you still use that analogy to say, though, like, we're all touching something,
we don't know what it is. But we're all describing it differently. And it's probably
something that we don't understand. I mean, that's entirely possible. I understand where
that's coming from. And of course, you know, it's hard to deny that you could supine good things
you like in the Koran, you can find good things you like in Buddhism. So of course, you can say,
yeah, there's there's there's some truth there and whatnot. I mean, no, it's hard to look at
something. Oh, yes, that's entirely wrong. Everything I in the teachings of Buddha, I hate.
No, you're not being honest. But I mean, like, if that if that's the case, it just leads me back
to where I am at step two, I guess you could say like, well, I mean, yeah, you could is there one
religion, though, that really has captured it that really has something that's different.
And, you know, when it comes to Christianity, you have the incarnation of Christ and the death
and resurrection of God incarnate, the God, the God who leaves his throne and becomes a baby
suckling from milk like the rest of us living the life, you know, that we all should have lived
and dying the death, we all should have died. It's very interesting. You have all these religions
of these trees that come down from heaven and only in Christianity, you have God who comes
down and says, you know, I'm going to show you how to live and I'm going to give you something
more that will really inspire you to be the good person you ought to be. It's that power of the
story. You know, what's interesting about the Bible, and I'm building on Holland here, of course,
is that it's this there's a lot of stories in the Bible of the the downtrodden the slaves
triumphing. I mean, that's that's the Exodus story. This is, of course, Elijah
triumphing over the prophets of Baal. And then, of course, you have Jesus who is
dying the criminals death and then rising from the dead to conquer death for the rest of us.
It's that idea that God comes into the world and takes the experience of the downtrodden,
the least of us and says, this is who is going to rise up. That is something that
it's hard to see how that cannot inspire people to want to go and do the good. You know,
the Greeks had their stories of like Hercules, this big, powerful hero, hero slaying it. And
most people are going to be like, I can never be like that. But I can be like Jesus. I can
follow in his footsteps and go out and do the good he did. I don't have to be
this almighty Caesar with armies behind my back. I and that in itself motivates people to do good
in ways that as Tom Holland notes throughout history, just other face than other ideologies cannot do.
Yeah, I totally I actually agree. When I read the Bible, I still get inspired and I still feel
this deep feeling deep deep in my stomach of like this powerful thing. I actually get the same
thing when I read. Have you ever read the Bhagavad Gita? A while ago. Yeah. Yeah. There's a translation
I really like by Eswaran. I'll send it. This one here.
Oh, okay. I don't have to read that one. The cover doesn't look like the one I read.
The chapter nine, I remember sitting, I was on Pulsad in Bali with a few drinks in me listening
to it. His Bali was a Hindu island, majority Hindu. I wanted to learn about Hinduism. So I was
listening to it on an audiobook and chapter nine blew me away. Like chapter nine, just it sounded
like I think it's stuff like I'm the beginning in the end. I am the flame and the thing that's
being devoured by the flame. I am the stars in the sky and the it's like it sounds very
psalmish very and it was written 300 years after like Isaiah, I think it was. So
it's interesting. I heard some people dated to like after Christ. I have to check on that. I
remember there was a various dates. Some are dating it to after Christ though, I think.
Okay. I think it's part I looked it up last night because I thought it was actually 400 BCE
but I was wrong according to Wikipedia. Yeah, we know it's absolute fact.
Unless you're talking about creation ministry today or whatever it's called, can home.
Yeah. So you were saying that Christianity for you, the story is really inspirational
and things like that. Would you say like, I'm not saying that that's all your evidence or anything
like that or that's evidence for anything. But I'm wondering, I agree with you that it's that
taking it a certain perspective is quite inspiring but I'm wondering how you get from that to
can you because I know you have logical evidence, rational evidence about looking through the
histories and things like that and looking at the evidence of the empty tomb. I understand all
those arguments. Well, I don't but I understand you have those arguments. But I'm wondering,
do those things get you to believe like so just because something is inspirational or feels
gapped. Does that mean it's true? No. And you know, one scholar that's really inspired me is
someone named NT Wright, Tom Wright. And he talks about this like you have very conservative churches
that really just sort of focus on the fact that Jesus rose from the dead and that's it.
And you have very liberal churches that just say, well, let's not worry about that. Let's just focus
on the power of the story and just go and do the good. And he says, you can't have one without the
other. You got to be doing both. You got to really be focusing on the fact that Jesus really did
rise from the dead. And if he didn't, everything we're doing is in vain. Why care? This is what Paul
is really hitting at in 1 Corinthians 15. So I mean, like, yeah, I mean, if, if I came to believe
the resurrection didn't happen, I would be more like a Tom Holland or Tim O'Neill type
atheist, I guess you could say I'd be more deist perhaps. But, you know, I would be like,
yeah, there's some really great stuff here. We can be inspired by it, but it's just not true.
It wouldn't, but I mean, then it just becomes like, is that enough alone to really motivate
humanity to do the good? Tom Holland is kind of worried in some of his interviews that it just
isn't. There needs to be that truth aspect underneath of it all. But I mean, again, so yeah,
to answer, bring that all back around, answer your question, if I came to believe it wasn't true,
I don't think the, the very power of the story of the gospel would just be a story. I mean,
it could motivate me to want to live a better life, but I don't think I would believe it to be
true. I think you need those underlying truth claims as Paul says, if Christ has not been
resurrected, everything we're doing is in vain. So would you say you wouldn't find them inspirational
if you didn't consider them to be true? No, I think I would still find them inspiration. I just
don't think they'd be as powerful as they are because in my, the argument is that Jesus rose
from the dead and conquered death. This happened in history. It didn't happen in a private vision.
It didn't happen on the firmament. It happened here on earth. And that inspired the apostles,
the disciples, to go out and proclaim it in the face of persecution and suffering and to do something
better than themselves. And without that, I don't think it would have happened. I have a hard time
seeing them actually going and doing that if something did not actually happen,
that would have inspired them to do that. I mean, I'm really wanting to learn your
perspective, but I do want to push back a little bit on this, if that's okay.
What do you think about, so when someone asks me that same thing, and I always
retort back with, well, what about like Buddhists who literally die for their religion,
like sitting themselves on fire as protest or, you know, Islamic terrorism, for example,
where they believe they have more faith than any Christian I've ever met.
And where do you draw the, how do you reconcile that where there are these other, I know
some Christians that I talked to would say that demonically possessed or something, right?
No, I want to tell you that.
No.
Yeah, and that's why I'm interested in what you think about that. If like, let's say these early
Christians were going out, they were getting killed, they were being persecuted by Rome or
I could be wrong there, they've been persecuted. And you're saying, well, it's hard for me not
to believe that they knew something, but then at the same token, there are other religions
where people are dying for their beliefs that you don't consider true. So how do you reconcile?
So I understand that definitely many early Christians died and many people that are not
Christians die for their faith, but that's not what I was talking about. Talking about
people who witnessed Jesus rash on the dead, the disciples, the 12, they saw him.
And even from reading Atheist scholars like Gerd Ludemann,
they don't really fit the profile of these fanatics, they fit more of like these timid,
scared people who were just sort of following Jesus because they were hoping he was going to
bring the kingdom of Israel and he didn't. And all of a sudden they're transformed into the people
that are ready for die for their faith. My issue with this, and this is what a lot of other Christians
like Michael O'Connor or Heather Massive pointed out, is that they would have known if this was
true or not. They would have been able to know that this was just like some sort of like eschatological
experience or this was something they had made up or whatnot. And I'm not talking about the
later Christians that converted and believe them and died for that faith or that'd be more
comparable to the Buddhists that burned themselves with the Muslim terrorists.
Talking about the actual original witnesses, it just seems as one part of the aspect of the
resurrection argument, they don't fit the profile of those kind of people that would go out and do
that as they would have been witnesses to what actually happened and would be able to know the
truth or not. So that's what I was more trying to get at when I was talking about that.
Okay. If I'm just pulling this out of nothing, right? So this isn't like a theory or anything,
but let's say Jesus was an apocalyptic Jewish teacher, taught some wild theories that ended
up being really cool. Some of them being really, really interesting. Let's call him a philosopher
using my apathetical, really interesting concepts. He was put to death. People believed he was dead,
but he wasn't dead. They stuck him in a tomb. He was maybe in a coma. He recovered miraculously
or somehow in three days and came back to and come out of the tomb. People saw him. They didn't
have our current understanding of medical science and things like that. They didn't understand he
was in a coma or he looked dead, but he wasn't dead. And then they were like, wow, he's risen
from the dead. And then they built the stories. They continued the ministry, the stories around him
based on that. Yeah. So I get what you're coming from crap, crap theory. I've just pulled it out
of nothing. This isn't like, I haven't got like a syllogism typed out or anything, but I'm just
saying like, let's say, could that be possible? I don't think so based on the surrounding evidence.
So like, you're right, they didn't have the medical experience, but for some reason they
were able to get the right medical aspect of what happens when someone dies of crucifixion.
Like John talking about the spear going in the side of the water coming out, because what we
know about the medical experience of that right now is that that's what would happen. And no one
survived crucifixion. And so it seems very unlikely that he would have survived that. That's called
the swoon theory. And as far as I know, scholars take that now is that Jesus, when he died,
he died on the cross. The Romans would not have let him live. And interestingly enough, also
helped supporting that, that they were actually recording what happened, which John talked about
the spear going in the sudden water coming out. That's something that you would not have gotten
unless you have understood the medical aspect of what's going on there.
Do you subscribe to the dates of John being like the last gospel written in 95 CE?
From around there, yeah.
Yeah, yeah. So how come like, it seems to me like this could be once again, pulling it out
anywhere that Mark, Mark had the least amount of details that seemed in this. And I mentioned
this in my history of Christianity, history of the Bible video, which I spent about six months
on, it's got like 200 views, which is great. So yeah, you put no work into another video,
and it just blows up. And you're like, Oh, hell, yeah. I think it's got more views now,
so starting to pick up. But in, and then I talk about how, you know, Mark doesn't seem to have
as much information as, as, as John, is it possible that they were just trying to fill in the gaps
because, because they were trying to, they were trying to, you know, make this more believable.
So like they created their written account and people like, no, I saw him, they speed him in
the side and they wrote this down. I'm like, okay, this is what happened. This is from,
I think John even says, this is from testable. These are from people who were there, right?
Is it John who says that? Yeah. Yeah, something like that. It's just a form of them trying to
convince them because it wasn't mentioned in Mark, was it? Or Matthew Stabbed in the side.
Well, this seems like kind of like a false dichotomy. I mean, like if, if something really
happened and you were trying to convince them, like you would, you would add more details as
you go along. Like let's say like you were in a car accident and then the guy got out of the car
because he was drunk and he beat you up and you, then he drove off. So it was a hit and run. And
you tell the cops and then the cops come back to you and you're like, you know, we're not really
sure about your story. And you're like, no, no, I have more details. Like he was wearing a red
shirt. He had a scar on his forehead. Like he was a little bit gray hair. Like, you know,
just because people are adding more details over time, it doesn't mean they're making it up. They
could be trying to say like, well, let's give you some more to, to really show that this story
actually happened. Then it becomes the question of internal evidence. Is what they're showing
aligning with what we would expect the internal evidence to show? Like, are we getting aspects
of that would align with oral traditions that, you know, like, are they writing in a way that
would fit with that culture? Like I just, I'm doing a video at the end of this month where I'm
going to talk about one thing they got right that would have been very weird if they wouldn't have,
like at one point Jesus is talking about the Shamite tradition of washing cups.
But after 70 AD or CE, that tradition went out because Halalites came into Galilee and then
that sort of Shamite tradition sort of faded away and died out. So they would have had to have
gotten that tradition from before 70 AD. And so like little details like that, I mean, that's like
one of like a hundred I could get, but little of those sort of start to add up and you start to go
like, well, are they making things up to fill in the details? Are they adding in details because
they really think this is true? And they really want people to believe so they're just trying to give
more. Okay. Okay. But 65 years after the, like, if I got beaten up and, and like, I'm only pushing
back because it's interesting. I'm not, I'm not trying to say you're an idiot, Michael. I mean,
you're a philosophy major. And like, I'm at all, right? I'm like, like, I'm amazed that you're
like, I wish I could study philosophy at university. There's none in Australia that I like. But
let's say I was beaten up. I was, I was taken out of out of my car and stuff. And then someone
asked me to recount this information, even a year later, two years, three years, five years later,
and they said, did the person kick your tire when they come past? Well, yeah, they, yeah, they may
or, or let's say, you know, or I'm really trying to convince them that the beating was bad. Did
they, how many times they hit you? Well, I guess they hit me five times. Or did they have something
in their hand? They could have. Yeah, they could have had a knife. I don't know. And like,
you know, asked me five years after 10, 20, 65 years is when John was dated. 65 years after
the accounts of what I'm trying to, I think that's correct, right? Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. Like,
you know, give or take 50 years, but, you know, give or take a lot. I'm saying a lot of jokes
that I'm realizing are Aussie humor that you're not, you're not picking up. Yeah. So that's a
long, that's a long time. Is it possible that, yeah, just to put back on that? Well, just to
know there's, there's two types of people in this world when it comes to jokes. There are Americans
and there are people who are wrong. So that's good. That's good. So just remember that. So like,
now, so yeah, so I understand where you're coming from from the 65 years, but I also want to push
back on that a little bit. So there, though, you know about, there was a guy named Paul tidbits,
who wrote a book called The Flight of the Inola Gay, and he was the guy that dropped the atomic bomb
on Japan. Now he wrote that book in like 1989. Like that's not 65, but you're talking like some 44
years later. So it's a pretty far away off. Do we think he's giving us pretty good information
based on his experience? I would say yes. And here's one just a priori reason. This is something
that was life changing for him, for the world. It would have stuck in his memory like a sore thumb
for years. And it was for a lot of these World War II vets. They remembered their experiences
very well. We watched the recent series, I think on HBO about the Pacific War, about these guys
that fought on Pelelu in Okinawa. And like, you know, these were things that changed their life,
fighting these horrible battles. And they remember details that, you know, you're not going to remember
when you're just eating your lunch, you know, 10 years ago, because these are life changing type
things. And I think they're going to get a lot of things right because of how strong they are.
Take something from the ancient world, the assassination of Caesar. There's a lot of accounts
of that. Now, in those accounts, if you're going to read like Suetonius versus some of the other
authors, like Plutarch, for example, you'll find differences in them on reporting that. Now,
they weren't even eyewitnesses. And they're reporting differences. But I think we can agree
Caesar was assassinated. And that was a life changing event for the eyewitnesses that told the
stories and went on. And even though you could get some things wrong, like, you know, who stabbed him
first, or did Caesar say this or say that, we can still agree that something happened.
And the core of the events are right. So I think that's the same thing when it comes to
Caesar's resurrection. You could say that maybe you don't remember how many times he would, you
know, when you're, the example you're giving me, how many times he punched you three or four.
But you know what happened. And you know, something definitely happened there. And so I think
we, even if there's like little details wrong, as it is with every experience, every recall back,
they're still going to get the core of the events, right? And it's very likely they're
getting it from a real historical event, not something they're going to make up. And if they
did, it would be far more fanciful, far, I think, far different than what it is in terms of the
prior graphical way it's being written. But in relation to my crap theory, where he falls
into a coma and comes out, I guess, I guess what I'm trying to go is, you know, obviously,
as a, I'm going to call you a philosopher, as a philosopher.
Could you just call me a philosopher?
Philosophizer, okay. You would, you know, you would know David Sheum and his, his perspective of,
you know, what is, what is more likely, you know, the, that someone rose from the dead and
or that there was people mistaken. What are your thoughts on, on that approach? Like, like,
I'm, I'm just giving some crap perspective. You know, I mean, easily just have said Jesus
is a twin brother than no one knew about or something just as stupid. But I mean, what's my
one? I would agree. I mean, I would agree with the book Hume's abject failure that that's just
sort of begging the question in a lot of ways. It was written by John Airman, who's an atheist.
But I mean, like, yeah, I would agree that the resurrection in this case, given the
circumstantial evidence, given the background knowledge, it is far more likely that Jesus
rose from the dead and someone just lied. Because one, it's less at hawkers, less assumptions,
there's more plausibility I can draw on there. And so now again, on the surface, I would be like,
yeah, you know, given what we've only talked about here today, it's more likely that someone just
made a mistake and are lied. But when you go into a lot of the evidence, you go into the detail after
detail, okay, then what about this aspect? What about the background knowledge, the lack of,
you know, the whole NT writes 800 page book called The Resurrection of the Son of God,
where it goes into the background knowledge and whatnot about the lack of Jewish rising,
diagonalizing my size. It's just, eventually, I just get to the point like, given all this
evidence, the resurrection explanation is just simpler. And I mean, I'm not going to do that
from just the things we talked about here. I'm talking like, you know, this data point,
this data point, this data point, and I'm not even going to build that unless I've already
built a case for the reliability of the New Testament. So essentially, to say all that,
I'll say, yeah, I will bite the bullet on that kind of David human thing and say, yeah, I do think
it's more likely Jesus rose from the dead than they lied. Because given the all the circumstantial
evidence, and let me give an analogy, you know, like, let's say you and I were aliens and we just
showed up on Earth. And someone told us, we've been to the moon once. Okay, and we would be like,
well, you guys are really primitive technology here. I don't see a lot of spacecraft going to the
moon. Are you sure someone just didn't record it in a studio somewhere? I mean, we see these
studios everywhere. We see you guys making video tapes everywhere. How do you know it wasn't just
made up? But one time, I mean, given that surface level reading of the moon,
landing, you could say it's it seems far more likely that someone just made it up, because you
could see these moon studio sets everywhere. But when we give a lot of the evidence for the moon
landing, you know, the fact that the Russians could have debunked it, the fact that they put
something on the moon that can be reflected by astronauts, the fact that other countries picked
up the radio signals, the fact that, you know, the technology at the time knows we couldn't
fake it, you're going to go, okay, yeah, we did go to the moon. That's it. That's the same kind of
analogy I'm getting it for the resurrection on a surface level understanding, just looking at
the background knowledge, you'd go, okay, I guess a studio sounds more likely. But when you get to
all the circumstantial evidence, you go, no, it's not. Okay, so what you're saying is you want
to both fly out to a boardroom somewhere, get a couple of bottles of scotch and live stream
mass and we'll solve the problem. We'll go through all the evidence, get pins, we'll get bits of
strings out and we'll just we'll just crack the case. I'll be there is like the playing devil's
advocate like, oh, can you really pull that string to try to tie there and we'll just solve it for
the world? I mean, I would be, I would be all for that. I mean, you got to give me a couple
of days or a couple of weeks to prepare and get all my notes together. But I mean, like I could
I mean, it would honestly, it might take that long because yeah, that's a good thing because you
shouldn't have a worldview built on like a B and C, you should have a worldview built on a through
Z, then a one through Z two, then a three through Z three, and you should have all these things
working together. And that's why I have a channel where I'm trying to go through it all and it's
might my cumulative case is what I'm putting out of my channel.
Yeah, your channel somewhere falls into the line of you've got to really focus and you don't have
and it's easy to digest it somewhere in between that and that's what I really like about your content
is you clearly have a media background because you can hold people's attention and explain really
complex issues really simply. And I just wanted to mention to back when I was a Christian,
I woke up one morning I was at a friend's house and for some reason I had all this random anxiety
about creationism and evolution and I'd never really looked into the subject except for like
10 years prior and I watched the answers in Genesis video and I was like I need to rethink about this
in the future. And I remember looking it up on the couch at their house waiting for my friend to
get up and I came across your video and it was the video where you mentioned seven days that
divided the world the book by yeah and I was like this and I felt my anxiety just leave I was like
okay you can there are ways to reconcile these worldviews and I actually bought the book and I
never read it and then years later I was like who was that guy and I was looking around on YouTube
for ages and then the first thing I recognized was your voice and I was like you have a very
distinct voice and I found your video and I was like yes and that's when I subscribed to your channel
when I you know years later when I've gone through all my study and stuff like that or
you know put my process. Well that's good. I hate my voice but I'm glad it helped in some way. Oh
really? You've got a distinct voice. Everybody hates their own voice and like when I when I
the way you sound in your head is always deeper than how you sound so when I hear myself on video I'm
like oh oh I just wish I sounded like I sounded my head. Do you want me to like pitch down your
voice for this interview or like I'll crank it so you sound like a driver? I want to sound like
very white okay. Okay I'll look no promises but I'll try and make it happen. Well we're running
out a little bit of time here but I thought we could move on to the question and answers if that's
okay. Yeah sure. We have, unless there's something else you want to bring up. No. Cool. I have 11
questions and some of these people wrote in some questions on Reddit. I didn't say who you were I
just said I'm interviewing a philosophy student who's a Christian who's really a really good
bit of apologetics. I also on Twitter and also some of my personal friends who I knew would
get some enjoyment from this interview and I will reword some of their questions so I hope
they make sense. They'll pop up on the screen and I'll read them out as well. So the first one
what are your thoughts on the early Christian theology i.e. Gnostic, Smilesianites, Evianites?
Yeah I mean well there wasn't one group of Gnostics. Gnostics is sort of like a category we
categorize a bunch of early groups like Canaanites for example. I mean I think a lot of those there
was a good evidence they come in second century AD maybe late first century AD and there's they
sort of come out of trying like Gnosticism really comes out of trying to like merge Christianity
with like a lot of Greek thought doesn't really fit with what a Jewish rabbi of the first century
would be saying. Marcianites definitely don't since they make it they're anti the Semites and
they get rid of all of that and then even evenites I feel like they're missing a lot of
there's a lot of limited information on them and I feel like they're missing a lot of stuff
that really supports their view but again these are these are what all all various different
sects and it would take a while to go into all of them but yeah I have looked into a lot of them
and Gnostics isn't being the most in the various sects in there and I just feel like
there's a lot of data that just doesn't really support their views. Have you read Bart Ohman's
book, Lost Christianities? No I've not. It's really interesting I really enjoyed it. Cool next
question to what extent do you believe God can be posited through reason? Well I mean the philosopher
said on me is coming out going I need you to find what you mean by posited and what do you mean by
reason. Just to sort of get this as best I can I mean I feel like we can understand that there
is a God exists and that we can know many of the qualities and aspects of them. I mean just read
Richard Swinburne for example and how he goes through this and the reasoning he applies so
then what not I feel like there's a lot we can get through. I don't think there is I don't take
like a Kantian view when it comes to that kind of stuff that we're sort of divorced from the
numinal I feel like we can have a good understanding of what's sort of going on there to to a large
extent but of course there's always gonna be details and doubt in there that we can't fill in.
Okay do you um I have to ask this just randomly do you um do you have do you struggle with doubt
like do you ever have moments where you wake up and you're like oh man what am I what if
what if everything I don't believe is wrong do you ever have moments like that? Oh absolutely
I mean yeah I have those all the time I probably had that this week I mean this is why I don't
encourage Christians to have their faith based on some emotional experience or something because
what I go back to is I go back to the resurrection argument I go back to the arguments for God's
existence and I go back to the atheist responses that I've read and I just feel like it's not the
simplest explanation I feel like there's a lot of problems with them I've gone through this
hundreds and hundreds of times and what I always go back to being the foundation of my faith is the
fact that I feel the evidence supports it and I run through it and you know I have those moments
of doubt where I'm like I gotta read opi or I've gotta read ermine again and just try to make sure
that they don't have a better explanation and every or I'll go and I'll listen to some atheist
channel and I'll be like again I can respond this way this way and I don't think you're offering this
simply and you're not you're setting up a double standard with the the burial of Jesus here where
the evidence you use for the Jesus was left on the cross is not applied to the evidence to show
Jesus was buried double standard I'm not convinced again so you know it's that's the foundation of
my faith so yeah I have doubts all the time and I think those are healthy I think humans
need to accept that that's just the way we are well actually having doubts means that you're
wrong with everything um oh okay I think everyone has doubts um I'd be concerned if people didn't
have doubts um I think they call it delusion and you get locked up I think they're lying if they
say they don't exactly that's a good point uh so you use Occam's razor I'd imagine um you like
you subscribe to Occam's razor I'm not a violent person I don't carry knives
good good yeah maybe it's the whiskey maybe the whiskey is finally catching up to both of us and
we can jam on the same stupid jokes all right uh okay next question uh how do you know Jesus is
God and when the bible accounts for other when the bible accounts for other people who were also
resurrected or taken to heaven okay so I mean I don't know I don't think lines up like yeah well
I'll do the second part first I mean I don't think resurrections the only resurrection that
happens in the bible is Jesus there are resuscitations people come back to life like Lazarus
comes back to life but he's gonna die again and you know he doesn't have the resurrected body
resurrection is something specific in the new testament it's you come back to life in a glorified
body that's now immortal and has new abilities so it's a little different how do I know Jesus is God
and in a lot of ways he claimed to be and he said I will prove this this who I am with my
resurrection will verify that I have this power and so he is again it's very different than Lazarus
coming back uh he's coming back in a new glorified body in that sense and again the way Mark for
example writes about Jesus he's very much writing about Jesus as if he's Yahweh so as he goes through
you know this story of Jesus that's the story of Jesus he's always writing in a way to parallel
passages in the Old Testament Yahweh like one of my favorites is when Mark talks about Jesus
calming the sea he's doing that in a way to really parallel the Psalms about Yahweh who has got control
over the waters in the sea he will set his foot on the sea and calm and whatnot and so I mean
very early in Mark I think it's very clear he's he's writing in a way to make Jesus as God
oh actually that that goes really well into our next question
why do you think Judaism hasn't accepted Jesus as the messianic figure as you know there's a lot
of Jews lately that have been coming to Christ which I've been really happy about that just did
a podcast recently with two messianic Jews on Christmas's pagan on their on their channel and
so like in there they were talking to me about how there's they're seeing a lot of that change now
so this is great for one stance why don't I think they've come I mean you know they're I don't I don't
like judging people groups I it's individuals yeah you know you could say there's a lot of
reasons why do this Japanese man hasn't accepted Christianity or this Chinese man hasn't accepted
Christianity I don't think it's people groups let me can I rephrase it for you then why do we
still have Judaism wouldn't they read the wouldn't wouldn't anyone who understands the scriptures
wouldn't they have that point to Jesus yeah I don't I don't agree with the a lot of the
Christian apologetics that the Old Testament always is pointing to Jesus I mean Paul and
verse Corinthians chapter one says if the archons had known they would not have crucified the messiah
that is it's very strongly implying that the Old Testament is vague on purpose so
no one would know what was going to happen so they could happen according to God's plan
it was very much these things are we're keeping some things on secret until you see it and then
you'll then we can get the real plan going here so I don't take this idea that the Old Testament
clearly is like oh obviously you can't get around it uh so you know maybe that's just I
disagree with the Christians on that but that's for me reading Paul and so I don't agree with that
idea that you're going to necessarily get that I think looking back you can see God working
in pointing to Christ in this way but it's not going to be it's not going to be as specific as
some Christians think it is okay um why can we trust the gospel accounts uh because just believe it
bro just gotta feel it bro it feels I mean there's a there's a lot of evidence I would say you got
to look at internal external evidence are they getting things right like Colin Hammer for example
goes through like the last chapters of Acts and notes that Luke gets so many little details right
it's hard for him to have been making this up uh Craig Blomber goes through the Gospel of John
mentions all these facts that are just someone could not have made up unless they were an actual
eyewitness or they were actually writing actual history there you can read Craig Keener's book
Christ to Biography the idea that in that ancient world you would not have written a biography about
somebody uh that would have been fiction if you're writing within the lifetime of the eyewitnesses
that just didn't happen if the Gospels did that they were the exception to the role uh you had
fictional accounts of people written that they were in long after that person died and after all
of his eyewitnesses would have died uh and he mentions a lot of good evidence that these are
biographies that they are writing trying to write history or whatnot you can look at evidence of
oral traditions that what they're writing the Gospels down they're preserving oral traditions
they write in a way that is called a parallelus mesbambaram so it's writing in a way that sort
of is almost like poetic in the way you speak and that ancient rabbis would do that so people
would memorize their things Jesus talked in all sorts of certain ways so that memorization would
happen and that's what we see in the Gospels they said they're preserving the words of an oral
rabbi and so there's all these little details are adding up over time I think there's plenty of good
reason to say these are written about historical sources now again it's never one of those little
things it's got to be a cumulative case and if it isn't I don't I don't see any way you could
you would work there's got to be a lot of evidence pointing it from different directions
I talked about some of that my New Testament reliability series and I think in a year or so
I'm going to start going back to that and start doing a much longer series on that
cool um are the historical sources outside of the New Testament about Jesus and the first
Christians I mean there are some here and there I mean you have Josephus mentioning some things
you have tasks that has mentioned some things you have uh celsus for example mentioning some
things that he confirms all like he confirms that the only four gospels are Matthew, Mark,
Luke and John uh he can confirm some things like you know that the women discovered the tomb he just
you know he just you know because he he doesn't he's a skeptic and he's trying to throw everything
he can against Christianity so he's a very valuable source when it comes to that uh you can see some
things in Lucian uh so there's little things confirmed here and there but there's not going
to be a lot because a lot of these people were not they they were they were you know tasks as for
examples mentioning in in conjunction with the nearer and persecution so he's focusing on some
other things but he mentioned some things along the way uh hypothetically if you're convinced
that God commanded immorality in the bible would that give you cause to evaluate your faith or
reevaluate your faith it should say uh yeah but you also have to remember I hold the virtue
ethics so I think there's a lot of circumstances that need to apply when we study ethics I'm not
a Kantian anymore so I when people say like you know God commanded this okay well what are the
circumstances like you got it I'm very much a Aristotelian it comes of this fashion so
that's going to be a harder nail to crack on me I guess and you know I have thought a lot about
that too so uh yeah I go go go yeah I was gonna so like uh I lost my train of thought there so
go on sorry I was I was gonna say it seems very much like um like a lot of people in our church
used to say that the the teachings on women preaching in church were just for a time and a place
is that kind of a similar perspective when it comes to morality where you say okay they did
say to go murder these you know people the Midian arts or whatever but that was just because of X
is that like are you saying that I I would say that could be definitely be part of it I do think
there's a lot of cultural context in there so the idea that you see in a lot of like Egyptian war
annals this idea they utterly annihilated everybody and there was no one left standing and really that's
just exaggerated language uh same in what is it book called yeah daily life in ancient Mesopotamia
by Karen Reynum in the church she talks about house in Sumerian annals they talk about they
wouldn't they utterly decimated this entire people and then the Sumerians have come back
and say and we brought these many people back as slaves what I thought you said you utterly
annihilated them what are you bringing people back as slaves for so it's like some of it can be sort
of ancient Near Eastern war language and I think we're missing the cultural context on that a great
book would be John Walton's book the Lost World of the Israelite Conquest okay um I have a uh
second thing I want to mention can you please get a good reads account because like I wasn't looking
for you I want to see what you're reading and and and see your like please please like you've
you mentioned about 17 books like people are gonna have to write them down if you just had
them in one big list people could just you know oh he's reading this reading it like come on man
I'll try it's I just don't have time to do another thing like I'm just busy maybe after I graduate I
can do that look all right I'll do it for you okay take a photo of your bookshelf I'll set up an
account for you I'll give you all the information and then we'll just call it right which bookshelf
that what so that one that one the one I have in my bedroom the one on my nightstand the one I have
on my computer because I'm trying to do more ebooks now so save space like which one send me a photo
of all of it I'll do it honestly I think it would be it would do the world of good for your your fan
base your community because you have so many good references like I've written down two already
and I'm gonna have to go back and listen to the audiobook because yeah I I've looked for you last
night I'm like I gotta I gotta know these books in the reading because they're just they're just
I'll try all right let me know if you need a hand with that because I will I will help you out of
that all right do you do you trust the accounts of other religions depends it depends on like
it's a case by case basis and it's hard to say like I think a lot of the I mean I'm okay with
saying that I mean I don't see that as an entirely contrasting my worldview I mean I could very much
be believe the idea that Muhammad spoke to an angel a bad one it's like I don't have to take
this idea that it's like it's all has to be that way if there's a good evidence Muhammad spoke to
an angel okay that doesn't necessarily mean it was a good one but I mean I feel a lot of go ahead
if you're comparing if you're comparing um if you're comparing the angel to what you believe
angels are because you're you're believing the accounts written in the bible like you're starting
from a perspective where you're going okay well the bible says angels and god does x y z because
the bible says so I'm gonna believe what the Quran says the Quran says x y z you know like
how do you how do you work that out okay like you have to choose one to start with right well for one
I would start there's other there's a couple ways I could do it for one I could say there's a lot
of evidence for the resurrection there's a lot of evidence for Christianity there's more evidence
for that than Muhammad's visions being real another way I could do about it and this is the way I do
it as I start with moral reasoning I would say look I'm not this idea that we have to have divine
revelation you know what's good I think we can know that rape is wrong for moral reasoning
same way that Aristotle could know certain things are wrong for moral reasoning and then I can say
well let's see what's happening in the Quran oh my god this does not seem like it matches what is
morally the right way to live I don't think you should be marrying a nine-year-old and consummating
the marriage and doing all these other horrible things this doesn't seem like it came from a good
source and I think you know it's in one of the Hadiths but I could say that I could feel like
you could look at the whole worldview of Islam and say I don't know if this is really coming from a
good source I would agree with you I just said it because I read the Quran I read
Abdel Halim's translation who is a professor of it is an English translation and I was
quite blown away I thought it was quite beautiful however I found some parts disgusting
but I found some parts in the Bible disgusting and there's ways to reconcile that as well obviously
so what I did is my first video is I actually created a Google spreadsheet and I and I no no
not Google spreadsheet Google um quiz and I put it on my Facebook and I wanted to see if people
could tell the difference between a Quran verse or a Bible verse and people could people I take
out like the word Allah or Jesus or God whatever and I and I put in problematic verses and good
and I mixed it all mixed up and stuff and it was really interesting to see that most people
unless they were like youth pastors or something or if they were Quranic scholars or something that
I had a few people did that they couldn't tell and I found it really interesting because um you
know both of them would be saying that the others is the word of the devil or something
and the others is the inspired word of God and they couldn't tell a lot of people couldn't tell
a difference I mean I would also push back because I'd be like what's the context because I see
atheists sometimes saying well Jesus said I came to bring a sword not peace and I'm like
can we look at the context of that because I feel like you're taking that out
yeah yeah exactly I came to bring a gun not a um okay sorry we all know Jesus and George
Washington fought off the Romans with ak-47s and then set up the constitution exactly and the
zombies um all right next question I need three more questions if we use miracles to claim something
some of the supernatural events of the bible why can we not use them for events like the
Gerardites, Lehiats, and Malachite sailing to America Mormonism well okay because it's there's
a lot there for one thing the internal evidence of the of the Book of Mormon just doesn't match up
they said they had horses they had metal weapons they saw all sorts of my favorite thing is I
remember one time reading a Mormon apologist saying well maybe the horses were tapirs that's
what they just they just called them horses because that's what they knew which is hilarious
because you got to think that there were ancient Jews in Mesoamerica writing armies of writing
armies writing tapirs in the battle and it's like wow they were able to tame tapirs and ride them
that we can't even do today interesting so we just say it's all a miracle that they all all
leave horse armor and skeletons disappeared after um America was founded I mean yeah but then you
start you go back to the criterion of being at least ad hoc and you start to make it more ad hoc
and you know it's like man yeah I I would say look there's a lot of miracles in the Bible I can't
argue for again the the basis of our faith is the basis of our faith is the resurrection
and that's what Jesus said that I will this this is what I will use to show who I am and that you
can trust us or trust me sorry I was thinking Trinitarian there right all right we'll just
feel it bro what are the best arguments for the existence of God and then what are the best
arguments against the existence of God in your opinion so I think the best arguments for God's
existence would be one the argument from consciousness because you you don't have to worry about the
heart gets around the heart problem of consciousness which is a conundrum for naturalists like very
big issue our argument I use digital physics or the emergent universe argument I think there's a
lot of hard issues there for atheists to get around when it comes to what's the underlying
ontology of our reality especially with all the new modern advances in science now as well as the
moral argument I think if you can if if you're a moral realist it's very hard to get past the idea
that there's got to be some sort of necessary personal force there best arguments against God's
existence of course go back to the problem of evil the problem of suffering I think the problem of
suffering and natural evil is going to be the hardest one I don't think divine hiddenness is a
good argument because I feel like it's just the the argument from religious experience in reverse
it's like you know someone from religious experience comes up and they go I've experienced Jesus and
therefore he's real and the divine hiddenness argument is I've not therefore he's not real
and you can say but people have formulated that in a strong way but people actually formulated
arguments for religious experience as well I just feel like they're two sides of the same coin
so I think the best arguments against God's existence would be evil and suffering of course
and the best arguments for God's existence would be moral conscious
new cosmological style arguments that are more idealistic
cool I believe um I think the argument from divine hiddenness is one of Matt Delahunty's
favorite um I believe I find it incredibly unconvincing on so many ways I just again it's
like religious experience in reverse to me I enjoyed your um your discussion I don't think I
only watched half of it but it was for preparation for this interview but your discussion with Matt
Delahunty um I think he had like a live debate or something oh yeah yeah that was interesting
that was he gave me he was he was so he gave me so many premises and I was like I even heard from
atheists after that said I'm sorry for the way I would have done better we he should have prepared
more and I was like it's okay I'm interesting yeah um I don't remember too much about it but
it was interesting nonetheless I think you use both um well as far as I remember neither of you
I wasn't scratching my head I need a review I was going okay I can see I think I can see your
perspective okay this is the last uh last uh question uh and it's the question that was asked
to Ken Ham and Bill Nye um when they had their famous debate which really was a big kick kick
kick kick off for me um which is what evidence or argument would you need to change your mind
nothing bro I feel it yeah feel it bro yeah that's what that's what Ken Ham basically said
what would I need I mean for first you'd have to deconvert me from so I mean I look at this
as sort of layers like so yeah you know like first you have to convert me from Christianity and I
feel like I need a naturalistic explanation for the resurrection that's less at hawk and uh I've
been around this block um hundreds of times now I just feel like there just isn't uh but I mean
that that doesn't mean someone could come up with something maybe we'll find more evidence in the
future maybe they'll find some more documents that really start to put the nail in Christianity
you know I mean finding a tomb like a burial box that says Jesus of Nazareth on it would be very
would really shake my faith uh because now we have a burial a first century burial box that's
with the cultural context in Jesus of Nazareth or Jesus son of Joseph it's written on it that
fits in the right area like culture something like that it you know it something like that would
definitely start to change my mind uh get me away from God's existence I don't know a grandma
a very cogent cram oppy style argument for naturalism uh but even then I'd probably still be more
like a tom hall and or a tomb he'll type atheists like Christianity's not true but it's done a lot
of good for the world so I don't think I'd ever be like any anti-theists just because the historical
facts are so strong and that's sort of in that at least that area but change my mind it'd be that
kind of stuff those kind of layers sort of breaking things down and whatnot and that is why I like
you Michael because you actually have a reasonable answer to that and a lot of people like Ken Ham and
stuff will say well no no well actually that's Kent Hoven's voice no no one's going to change
my mind or the bible is the word of God so yes so I really like that about you Michael and I hope
that a lot of people go to your channel and find it interesting whether they're just what they're
they're they're religious views or not and I really think this interview it's been awesome
and I thank you for coming on and hopefully we can do something like this again in the future
and I can maybe press press a bit harder on some of the um on some of the questions or maybe I'll
maybe I'll pick one from this interview and we can deep dive or maybe you have some questions
for me um either way I'm happy to do this again I thank you for coming on everyone and make sure
you check out Michael's uh channel uh links in the description as always and yeah cheers
I already drank all mine so I've like I've polished I've like polished the bottle it was like
like it's it's one o'clock here in Australia and and like like this is my last day of holidays or
tomorrow's my last day of holidays so I think I'm gonna go out I'm gonna keep drinking um I'm gonna
play Mario Kart with my wife and um and I'm gonna you know ponder the how about the next live
stream we play Mario Kart and if I win you have to become a Christian again and if I lose
then I will just say well good game
