Is there a good reason to believe in God?
Tonight we'll be getting to the very bottom of this ever so important question.
Actually, we won't be because people have been debating this subject for literally as long as this subject has been a thing.
But we will be getting to the bottom of some deep drinks over a deep conversation.
Stay tuned as a non-theist and a Muslim have a conversation about God.
We'll be getting to the bottom of this ever so important question.
Stay tuned as a non-theist and a Muslim have a conversation about God.
The answer is, yes.
Stay tuned as a non-theist and a Muslim have a conversation about God.
Stay tuned as a non-theist and a Muslim have a conversation about God.
Thank you everyone who has come out at this very different time than when we normally do deep drinks.
Like many of you may know, I live in Australia.
So for me, this is actually night time.
So it's an enjoyable time for me to do deep drinks.
It's not 6 a.m. where I'm drinking straight vodka with a guest.
But today, my guest is Masut Ahmed.
He's a content creator and author who writes about Islam, science and their intersection.
Masut is the author of Ancient Astronomy.
Masut is currently working on an easy to understand English translation of the Holy Quran.
This will not be a debate.
Instead, we hope for a respectful back and forth on the subject of God, belief and some religious belief.
Masut is currently working on an easy to understand English translation of the Holy Quran.
This will not be a debate.
Instead, we hope for a respectful back and forth on the subject of God, belief and some religious belief.
Instead, we hope for a respectful back and forth on the subject of God, belief and some religious perspectives.
No Islamophobia or bigotry is permitted in the chat.
If so, you will be muted.
Address the ideas presented, not the person.
Address the tenants, not the religion as a whole.
With that said, I'd like to welcome my friend Masut Ahmed for a discussion on God.
Welcome Masut.
Thank you, David.
Masut, you've reached out to me and said, hey, I want to have a conversation about Islam.
And I thought you were one of the people who have been berating me on one of my videos about Nuria Khan and calling her a liar and a bunch of stuff.
But you apparently hadn't seen that and you weren't an angry person.
You're a nice person.
So I was like, yeah, sure.
We had a conversation on the phone and here we are to have a conversation.
We have such posing world views.
So there should be something interesting to talk about.
But first, before we get into that, what are we drinking tonight?
Obviously as a Muslim, you probably don't drink a lot of alcohol.
So yeah, apple juice.
Me.
I got my apple juice as well.
I love the commitment.
Even with, you know, it's not the, it's not the, you know, the most exotic drink in the world, but it's good.
Apple juice is good.
I'm on board for the apple juice.
So I wanted to start this conversation and just have like a really chilled out kind of conversation about God.
So I'd like just for you to explain, I guess, what you believe about God.
Do you believe there is a God?
And how did you start believing in that God?
Well, I was brought up a Muslim, got raised by Muslim parents.
So where I lived in a suburb, there was a mosque.
And unlike how it happens in the Western world, back in India, you have the caller call from the mosque, the minaret.
Five times prayers, you know, publicly, it's announced.
So I think the relationship begins there.
And mom and dad, as one can expect, try to give what is beloved to them like their beliefs.
So they try to teach little kids about it.
And as if I reminisce those moments with my mom, I would, I mean, as a kid, what kids like doing is playing and not really,
not really feeling comfortable listening to lectures.
You know what I mean?
So I remember those moments when my mom would give me some some sort of guidance about God.
And I would, I would, I would be unwilling to receive it from within because I wanted to play or whatever, you know.
But I've seen my mom pray all the time.
And at times I was just thinking about it or having fun, so to say, not being too serious about my mom's prayers.
But at times I've also taken, as I really grew up, I was like in my teens.
And that's when it changed.
I really derived a great reverence looking at my mom pray.
So, so I think more than speech, my parents commitment to, to the worship of God, I think it had an effect on me.
And yeah, that's that that probably can say where the beginnings or the seeds implanted in me.
More so, because I was not ready to receive speech as such, because I had no time.
I wanted to play all the time.
So yeah, I want to do.
I love that you started like that because, you know, a lot of the time, you know, you write books defending Islam, but a lot of the time when apologists.
Christian Muslim doesn't matter.
Every apologize I kind of talk to.
Usually I'll go, why do you believe in God?
And they'll say, you know, because these arguments just point to God.
And it's like, does that really, did you really like sit there like with like a cake, you know, doing calculus and like work, you know, running like these Bayesian formulas to try and or did you really?
Or do you like find them in defense of your faith?
Yeah.
So, yeah, well, I mean, I'm sure that you have arguments and I haven't read your books, but I'm sure and I just will quickly shout them out.
So these are the you if anyone wants to check out these books links in the description.
So you've got ancient astronomy.
I was narrative sharia law for Australians boycotting hungry jacks, which I want to know a little bit about that and creation of earth and origins life narrative.
And of course, you're working on a translation of the car.
So that's that's kind of cool.
Well, I don't know if you can beat this.
I have to say this.
This is the version of the Quran that I've read.
And I really like this version.
So can you compare two?
Yeah.
Can you also show my website if you don't mind?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I don't actually have that.
Slavic scriptures.
You can just type in.
Oh, yeah.
I'm sure I'm sure my translation will come handy.
And at times better pitched because there's so much I'm bringing into that translation out of out of my works that I've done.
So there's a lot of knowledge being transmitted into my translations.
So they can go just just click the homepage like the Islamic scriptures logo logo.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, wow.
You have these many chapters here.
Yeah.
So you can click one of those.
And your goal is to try and bring an easy to read version of the Quran for people around.
Is that your goal?
Absolutely.
I mean, that's one of the very important goals that I'm aiming to achieve.
And besides that, after I completed those three different books, the knowledge that I thought was missing in the translations that I was reading had to be transmitted into my translation.
So that's that's that's a very cool addition you can say.
Yeah.
And you also have two YouTube channels as narrative as you just started, which people can go subscribe to if they like what you what you're saying tonight and God Network, which is another channel that you have going on.
And I will just just say if you do want to become if you do want to support the channel here like deep drinks and what we're doing.
We have a join button here so you can join and then your comments will stand out.
And I'll thank you forever.
And then also we have a patron.
You did a patron.com such deep drinks.
If you want to help support this channel, there's a lot of cool perks on there.
So thank you to all the patron supporters and the people who have joined the channel as well.
That's really I really appreciate it.
So back to the reasons you had for God.
So what I'm hearing is like you have a lot of reverence for like your mother and your father and how they prayed and you took a lot of reverence from that.
Do you think you would have similar reverence and a similar experience if they were praying to the Christian God?
I think that's how kids are brought up basically.
And that's how we have communities.
There's a Christian community, Hindu community and Muslim community.
And that's how communities form.
So basically kids, you know, there was a science experiment that I would just like to bring up here as a new scientist article as a research article.
And they found out that kids don't have to be taught about God.
It's natural to them.
So babies correspond to the agency relationship.
And the way that human brain comes to solve problems creates this God-spaced conceptual space that is prepped to receive the ideas that they find in their cultures or upbringing.
So that probably explains how communities form and different religions become well populated because of how kids are brought up by parents.
So do you think that is like cut before the horse?
Do you think that is evidence to show that God has implanted something in us that we would want to have a relationship or worship Him?
Or do you think that is more emblematic?
I think it might be using the wrong word.
But it is more the reason why we have religious beliefs.
Maybe there is something biologically necessary that cultures that had a single idea of that they could get behind and believe in with standard of the test of time.
And thus the other groups of people didn't disband and didn't have that unity.
And thus didn't have children and thus didn't continue on there.
Do you think there could be something biological there?
Or do you think it is something that God has implanted in us?
The evolution biologists do make a case for it from the biological point of view.
But in my opinion, it is not a biological determinate.
For example, I have read Richard Dawkins books and Jerry A. Coins by evolution is true.
And I have seen them make this point of false positives that in evolution of human beings,
human beings were taking precautions from their surroundings, obviously, to protect themselves and save themselves.
So they have developed something called as false positives.
Like even if the cross in the fields rustle, the human perceives a lion coming to him, although it may not be true.
It's just because the protection kicks in in the human mind.
And this has led to infer an agency and that's how the agency relationship is predominantly observed in human beings.
Is that how they argue?
And they say it got synthesized in the genes and that's how they infer these science experiments
are able to conclude the agency in very young children, babies, who actually show this relationship.
And they go on to say that it's the other way around.
Actually, what you need to do is you need to deconvert kids to disbelieve in God.
So belief is kind of natural to babies.
So if you want to make them atheists, you have to basically deconvert them.
We might have our first point of contention.
But I do want to shout out critical faculty.
Super chat. Thank you so much, critical faculty.
Just a chat warm up to shout out to my hardworking friend, David.
You've had a debate with this man, Hany, from critical faculty and he's coming on actually on Thursday night.
And he's going to berate me for not asking you the tough questions, I'm sure.
So his episode is in a few days.
So he was a Christian and a Muslim and now he's an atheist and he's got a bunch of degrees.
That's going to be interesting.
So thank you so much, critical faculty, for your super chat.
I really appreciate it.
And I appreciate everyone commenting as well.
I will try and get to some of the questions that I can see pop up.
It's hard to have a deep conversation as well as like read them, but you know, I'll try and get to them.
But what I'm kind of, I don't know if I haven't read, I've got the book back there, but I haven't read why evolution is true.
I've read some of Richard Dawkins' work that I think you're referencing.
I thought that was only, I don't know if there's a reason to then disbelieve in a God.
Like I think that might be, I haven't heard them say that.
I've heard them say that essentially the reason why we have the fight-or-flight response is because, you know,
the person that went and investigated the bush that was making the rustling noise had a less chance of a survival
than the person who went and ran away from it.
Even saying person is probably a wrong categorization could be a creature, right?
And lizard brain type stuff, right?
But again, I'm not a biologist and I don't have a degree in science or anything.
So I'm just kind of pointing to what the consensus kind of says.
But are you saying it's consensus that they make the prescription that we should teach children not to believe in God?
No, no. What I'm saying is it's the other way around.
People think kids are taught to believe by parents and hence they believe.
Otherwise they would basically be growing up as non-believers, okay?
But in fact, it's the opposite way.
That's what the New Scientist article on belief has found in their research.
They say kids are natural believers, may not be of any particular religion,
but to disbelieve they have to be deconverted.
Yeah, I would probably, just from an anecdotal perspective, I would agree with that.
When you're a child, you're a sponge, right?
You have to soak up information, don't touch fire, it's hot.
But the problem is when we start telling children things that aren't true,
Santa Claus delivers presents at night and there are fairies that live at the bottom of the garden
that kill you if you chew your nails, like some of the German stories that I always read as a kid.
Oh my gosh, I wish I could find those books.
So I guess what I'm trying to get at is, for me, the interesting questions are,
how do you determine whether or not your belief in Allah is justified
if you could have the same response to your parents having, you know, praying to the Christian God,
like you could imagine yourself almost growing up as a Christian or a Hindu or some other religion
if that was presented to you and you probably just as convinced for those religions
based on the fundamental like philosophical starting points that you start out,
how do you determine then that Islam is actually the accurate representation?
How do you, for one, determine that there is a God and that the Quran gives good instructions about who and what God is?
How do you make that determination before you even get to Islam?
No, I'll just tell you another story.
I was fond of playing marbles, so I would store them, keep them safe under the mattress.
So my mom would force me to sleep in the afternoon when the sun was hot, you know,
but I would sometimes, you know, I would just keep myself awake
and when she would fall asleep, I would just sneakily get away from that place
and one day I was reaching those marbles that were tucked under the mattress
and she caught my hand and she asked me to show what they were and there were like five marbles
and she wanted, she asked me how many there are, you know, I was a little fellow back then
and I counted them to be five and the next immediate question she asked me was
how many gods do you think there are?
And guess what my answer was, how many gods were there, you know?
Oh, okay.
How many gods do you think there were? Yeah, my answer was straight five, okay?
Because I counted five marbles and five was in my mind and I just said five
but she taught me, no, there's one god and it sunk into my brain that it's true.
God should be one, you know, kind of thing, you know what I mean?
The instinct just kicked in, yes, God is one, but I can totally understand.
What if she said two and you were convinced of two gods?
Yeah, I'll tell you what.
What happens in the Muslim culture?
As we grew, obviously, I started exploring religion a little bit, a little bit,
and it happens little by little because you're not super interested into it right from the beginning.
At least I wasn't.
So when I was growing up, Islam has very reduced facets in different parts of the world,
like people have practiced it in a different way, for example.
Like in India, there was this culture of attending to the tombs of the saints, right?
My mom's family was found in this culture, right?
And of course, my father's dad's family, like my paternal and grandfather's family,
was also found in this culture, right?
So my mom wanted me to make a prayer at one of these tombs of a saint,
and I was a teenager at that time and I just rebelled.
And without prior meditation, I had never meditated about this topic or subject,
but we were in a family event and my mom wanted to do this ritual,
and instinctively I just protested and rejected it, rejected the proposal,
and yeah, that was the beginning of me actively thinking about God.
To answer your question, what if my parents prayed to a Christian God?
Or how about Hindu parents praying to several different gods?
The answer was the same, as kids will get involved in what parents do
and may absorb certain things, but as they grow up,
their brains are mature enough to make those calculations to use logic
to answer some of those conundrums of how or what is happening to the concept of God in societies.
Like for example, I technically believe from the reference of the scriptures
that Christianity is a monotheistic religion and the God of Christianity is the God of Islam and the God of Judaism as well.
So there's no heartaches there, but when it comes to Hinduism,
I've lived in India, I grew up in India, I've seen Hinduism from a very young and early age,
and I've known the concept of one God is prevalent among Hindus very much,
so much so that on parity you find several hundreds and thousands of gods,
but at the same time the idea, the thought and the scriptural instruction of monotheism is still intact within the vivid culture of Hinduism.
I mean Hindus recognize one God and they have a name for it.
They would say Ishwar or Bhagawan without any reference to a particular idol as such.
So I think the concept of one God is...
Yeah, there is one God in Hinduism technically, right?
There's the highest God, and then there's a list of deities underneath that,
but you could say the same thing for Islam.
I know that you will disagree, but I could point to the Archangel Michael as a deity,
as a type of supernatural agent that has more power than, like they can appear in thin air and have more power than a human,
but you don't call it a deity because in Islam it's totally a no-no, obviously,
but it's not really a no-no in Hinduism, so they just have that same pantheon.
I think the definition of a deity would be a qualifier if people worshipped it.
So in Hinduism, for example, people worship idols, many different idols, so they would be demigods or deities,
but in Islam, Muslims do not worship Gabriel or Mecca.
I know that I worship them, but you're kind of playing fast and loose with...
All I'm saying is they seem to be only relevant inside of the framework that we're talking about them.
I could say there could be some religion out there that worships Michael the Archangel as the highest deity,
and then they say that he is the highest deity, he's the biggest, right?
And then you say, well, and they'll say, well, we believe in Krishna and Jesus and Muhammad and stuff,
but they're all underneath Michael the Archangel, and then you would say to them, well, so you believe in Jesus as a god?
No, no, no, he's underneath. In that framework, it's like these frameworks for religion are a way,
and I'm kind of ranting now, and I apologize, but it's kind of like they're a way to organize an unviewable, unverifiable cosmos.
Like, is there any way to verify any of this?
Sure, there is. The verification is a revelation from God.
So if Allah, the God, says, I'm your God, and there is no other God besides me,
and here you go, this is my communication made to man.
So if there is a similar claim from other deities of the world, I would be asking, what is the revelation?
So if they produce one revelation, for example, then the next step would be to ascertain the truth of the revelation.
So if it can be falsified, then you pretty much go that it's not true.
This God is not God, because the revelation he's given, the guidance he's given is falsified.
Okay, so I hear what you're saying.
There's a couple of ways I feel like chatting, because this is quite interesting to me.
I'll try not to pivot.
So I'll try not to pivot. I'm mind-racing. I'm trying to think of something to question, because I'm generally interested.
So what could falsify Allah's existence?
See, the a priori is not even a scripture.
As I told you, belief in God is innate to human being.
And I was trying to complete what I was saying before, that it is not a biological determinant as evolution biologists come to argue that it got synthesized.
The false positive got synthesized as a triad in human beings and it's found in the genes.
If that is the case, I would be asking to locate those set of genes and to gene edit them to find out that the new being that would result from those genes would not have that agency.
So that would be a defining proof.
So my argument is it's not a biological determinant.
If it was a biological determinant, then you would not rebel the idea in the first place, because it is a biological determinant.
So here you go. There's a strong beating to that idea that evolution biologists come up with.
But what I'm saying is this whole idea of God to humankind is a historic event that occurs when we are given life.
That's how Quran comes to describe it.
Quran comes to describe it as a historic occurrence.
An event that occurs when God instills life into the growing embryo and God questions the embryo.
Once he gives life, I'm not your Lord and the embryo has responded to God that yes, you are our Lord.
So this historic connect with the Creator becomes innate, becomes instinct within the being that's born.
And that's the reason why he never feels, he feels the idea of God to be innate to him and he struggles with it.
Just to go back though, you said that the way we determine whether or not we grow up and then we get to evaluate the evidence, right?
And you said that how we evaluate the difference between one God and a true God is if the revelation is given and it's not falsified.
Is that right?
Is that what you said before? Okay, cool.
So my next question was, and so that's premise one.
So how we determine if a God, we're just putting this in the chart, if a God is real and then is, I'm trying this down so I remember, if the revelation is given and not falsified.
What I'm asking for is how would you falsify the, not God in general, but the Muslim God, Allah.
How would you falsify that?
Because obviously you know about the principle of falsifiability, like something needs to be able to be falsified.
Otherwise, it's not worth anything, like as evidence, right?
Look, Allah hasn't made it easy.
Allah is just an Arabic word, to be honest, and people often get confused.
People say Allah is a Muslim God and our God is God Almighty.
So I just want to make sure they do understand that Allah, the Christians in the Arabic world also refer to God as Allah.
So Allah is just an Arabic term for the God.
So God has made it easy for us to do the job.
God says, here's my revelation, falsified.
So he's pretty much subjected his revelation to a concept, to a philosophical idea, it's called abyssal epistemology, like human beings can gather their intellect together.
And come up with refutation of God's revelation.
It's as simple as that.
If human beings want to endeavor, refuting or falsifying God's scripture, God says, the scripture I've given it to you and it's an error-free file.
God calls it an error-free file.
So our objective with this book of God, if you want to prove that this God is a false God and this scripture got made up by people.
So all we need to do is find discrepancy and falsify the scripture and the job be done.
It wouldn't prove that there is no, I want to be careful with our terminology.
It wouldn't prove that there is no God or that even that the Quran's idea of God doesn't possibly exist.
It would just not give any weight to it because it would then be falsified, right?
Which is your first premise if a revelation is given not falsified.
So would you only need one verse in the Quran to be falsified for it to then come crumbling down?
Like the whole stack of cars crumbling down?
You can't really catch hold of just one verse in the Quran.
Quran is a book that presents concepts.
So it's more than a verse.
If a concept is wrong in the Quran, then how do you determine what do you test the Quran up against in that instance?
Can we use the science or the scientific method?
Any means that human beings are proficient in.
We can use that, we can apply that and we can expose the Quran for the errors it contains if at all it contains.
Okay, interesting.
Alright, well, I don't know enough about the Quran to be able to levy any like real criticisms that you probably haven't heard apologetics for before.
But what would you say to say a Christian who says the exact same thing?
I mean, I believe in the Gospels to be from God and the Old Testament to be from God as well.
It's been corrupted, right?
Sorry?
It's been corrupted, right?
I mean, look, it's a little complicated.
The Quran says itself as Muhaymin and Ali is an Arabic phrase it uses, which says the Quran is a guardian scripture over the Gospels and on the Old Testament.
The Quran is actually guarding those scriptures.
So if you want to pinpoint some inaccuracy in the Gospel or in the Old Testament, the Quran comes to its defense.
So technically, if you want to point out, if polymics want to point out the Gospel is full of errors, then the Quran is begging them to take the truth from the Quran.
Because Jesus himself in the Gospels, Jesus comes out and says, when I'll be gone, the spirit of truth shall come and he shall guide you into all the truth.
So here's a prophecy that Jesus gives to his people.
It says that I've come to do the job, but you cannot bear them now for he, the spirit of truth, when he will come, he will take what belongs to me.
He says, he will come with what belongs to me and he will give it to you.
So Jesus in fact said the true scripture, he prophesied the true scripture is yet to come.
And that scripture is the Quran.
So the Quran actually because itself in defense of the Gospels and the Old Testament.
I have to push back there.
So I've heard a Christian apologist say this, right?
This is how we know that Islam is a false religion.
This is what they said.
Now, I'm not making that claim, but this is what they said.
They said the Quran explicitly says that the words of Allah cannot be corrupted.
And then it says that the Hebrew Bible has been corrupted and the Hebrew Bible was originally from Allah.
Thus, it's like a married bachelor.
It cannot be true because Allah's words cannot be corrupted and the Old Testament was corrupted.
The same book says that, right?
Yeah, you probably missed the point that what the Quran stood saying.
I didn't miss it.
I'm just responding to what this apologist said.
Yeah, I've read these verses.
And what I'm saying is God establishes truth.
If something gets corrupted, so God establishes it.
So in the Old Testament, there were obviously scribes doing some doodling work and Jeremiah comes along in the Old Testament.
Still in the Old Testament, not even Jesus or in the Gospels.
In the Old Testament, Jeremiah comes along and accuses the scribes.
He says, you've done a dirty job.
You've written lies.
So every time there is corruption, God makes sure there's a prophet and he establishes the true words.
So hence when Jesus came, he did the same thing.
He got them the truth.
And those, I mean, you're aware of the series of discussions that confrontations that Jesus had with the high priests.
You know what I mean?
And at the terminal term of Jesus Christ, he prophesied that the mission did not complete.
The kingdom is not hence mine.
But the words that Jesus used himself.
And he said, now when the next prophet is due to come, he will bring the truth and he will establish truth.
He will guide you into all the truth.
That's what Jesus said.
Okay.
So once God made that happen, God turned the page for that day.
From that day on, you can see how the Quran has been protected or guarded.
And that's when God concluded that you're the last prophet in the Quran and there will be no more prophets.
And the Quran will stand as guidance until the end of times.
Okay.
I understand what you're saying.
I just want to mention, just before Tib from Discord, who's a great, great man, helped me so much.
Before when we're talking about the Quran having any issues, like any concepts that were falsified, then that would disprove Islam.
What do you make of Quran 2312?
It says, indeed, we created humankind from an extract of clay.
Do you want me to answer this?
Yeah.
What do you make of that?
Do you think we were made from an extract of clay?
Yeah, absolutely.
What that means is when God created life, even the scientific narrative goes this way, that in the early phases of the Earth's development,
there was this thermal pot somewhere in some region of the world, of the Earth, where there was this thermal processes, warmth,
all the sorts of right sorts of chemicals together.
And from an extraction of this sort of setup from the mud, from the Earth, came life.
Okay.
That's what the scientific narrative would probably tell when it comes to...
The origins of life.
We don't know where, like, Abo Genesis is still an unsold science.
Absolutely.
That's the hypothesis we have, but that's not...
We don't know that.
Yeah, the Quran says that he God created life from the Earth.
Okay.
Okay, so that's...
From the mud, from the clay, from the mix of water and Earth.
Okay.
Right.
Well, I guess, so do you believe that, like, back when, you know, Muhammad wrote this down, or he didn't write this down to you,
he was dictated it to someone who wrote it, right?
Because he was...
Yeah.
When this...
It was written down, do you believe that they had that perspective of it, or do you think it was, like, taught to them as, like,
in very basic terminology because they couldn't understand, like, Abo Genesis and all that kind of stuff?
Do you think it was, like...
Obviously, if God would give a revelation today to human beings, for example, it would be very...
It would be pertinent to the use of language that we have in the scientific community, for example, if God wants to say something scientific,
he would just use the scientific words that human beings are proficient in, or, you know...
Hmm.
So, absolutely, back then, it's a simple set.
I mean, from clay, those are the origins, and that's where the amino acids form.
The basic units of life and the motors needed for the cell mechanisms are birthed in the soil.
So, that's how God comes to organize life.
So, back in the day, during this time in Arabia, I think they had the knowledge of this sort of stuff because of the mishmash of people traveling,
learning what other people believe, and these ideas were biblical ideas, very common.
I mean, even the Bible says God made man from clay.
So, these ideas were common.
God just repeats it.
But do you think that the general scientific consensus, do you think that any person in any scientific field who studies this would describe it as us being made from clay,
or do you think that's a... you're reading into it more than it's actually saying?
No, that's how it's been described thus far.
I mean, people's scientists have said life originated from Earth in some thermal pot, and since then, has multiplied and has evolved.
Well, we don't...
No, no, no, no, they don't...
They've evolved from that single cell, or...?
They don't say that, though.
Like, there's even...
What did they say?
There's hypothesis for a lot of things because we don't know.
There's a hypothesis that debris hit Mars, and then there was water that flung to Earth, that had microorganisms living in it.
Like, if that became the leading hypothesis, that would...
I know that...
We can be honest.
You're not going to reject that, right?
You're going to reject that.
You're not going to start agreeing with that and throw out the Quran.
You'll say, well, that's wrong, right?
No.
Our bodies are made out of matter.
But they're not made out of clay.
They're made of carbon-based life form.
Absolutely, and those constituents are found in the clay.
And the Earth, basically, those constituents come from the Earth.
Where else do you reckon they come from?
So, it's basically...
It's this fundamental thing that God derived life out of the Earth.
That's the inference drawn there.
That says, I created you from the Earth.
So, what else is there to that?
So, just to bring it back to the falsifiability...
This is the issue that I have with, I guess, the approach that I see a lot of a fierce take online.
And that is, they will try and work in their holy scripture to work with whatever science that we have currently available.
And the gap...
The God of the gaps gets smaller and smaller and smaller.
We don't necessarily need God for a lot of things that we thought we did 100 years ago.
I just had a baby through IVF.
My wife probably would never have gotten born.
We didn't need to pray to get a baby.
We had, in virtual fertilization, I've literally got photos of our boy Atlas growing from sperm hitting the egg and multiplying into different cells.
But what I have an issue with is, if I was to say, do you mind if I...
Can you say what city you live in?
Or is that not okay?
Yeah, Adelaide.
Yeah, cool.
So, I live in Brisbane.
I live north of Brisbane on the Sunshine Coast.
Now, Adelaide is quite far away.
Like, what, like a four-hour...
Probably like a six-hour plane ride or something, right?
Oh, no, five-hour plane ride.
Now, if I told you, like, I'm going to walk to your house, right?
Yeah.
And then I walked, and then tomorrow morning I'm there, and I'm like, I've walked to your house, and I've walked to Adelaide.
And I wrote this down, and then in 500 years, there's a deep drinks religion, and they're all worshiping me.
And they're like, well, he actually did.
He walked all the way from Sunshine Coast to Adelaide.
And then people are like, well, hang on, that's a bit strange.
Like, let's say Australia sinks and everyone forgets about it.
And then they go, actually, they find old maps, and they go, actually, the distance between Brisbane and Adelaide was so far.
There's no way he could have walked.
Well, then a deep drinks apologist comes along and he says, actually, David knew that on aeroplanes, you can get deep vein thrombosis.
And so it's good to walk on the aeroplane, walk up and down the aisles to get the blood pumping.
So when he said that he was walking, he was actually on a plane, and he was just walking up and down the aisles.
So really, he did walk all the way to Adelaide, but he was, you know, it's not...
Like, you can make anything work if you try hard enough, but it just doesn't seem to be the best faith interpretation of what's actually being said.
Does that make sense?
Like, someone could make a religion about deep drinks.
In fact, there might be people in the comments who are going to start one right now about me being a deity, and there will be a way to square that peg.
There will be a way to make that religion of deep drinks work.
Maybe I'm self prophesying here, but do you see what I mean?
Like, there is a way to make an employee work for anything, like any religion.
Yeah, no.
Why would you tell the people that you really walked, giving them the impression that you actually walked by land?
When God communicates, he has it in the needed, much needed detail.
He would actually say, I walked on the plane, and the plane flew me down to Adelaide.
So that sort of detail is available in the scriptures.
Well, okay.
Well, I hate to throw all the cliches at you, but so when it says that Muhammad split the moon into, what do you make of that?
The Quran doesn't say that.
Well, let me pull open.
Let's see what this version says.
I'll just read it.
So I got two parts highlighted.
So for everyone, it's Quran 54-1-2.
The hour draws near, the moon is split.
Yet whenever the disbelievers see a sign, they turn away and say, same old sorcery.
They reject the truth and follow their own desires.
Everything is recorded.
So that to me, from an English translation reading, looks to be that God was creating a sign in the heavens.
The hour is drawn near, the moon is split.
Yet whenever the disbelievers see a sign, they turn away and say, same old sorcery.
So it looks to be that the moon was split.
The answer is probably, for the answer, you've got to probably read chapter six.
Just don't keep the book down.
Chapter six was 35.
Chapter six 35.
If you find rejection by the disbelievers so hard to bear, then seek a tunnel into the ground or a ladder into the sky.
If you can and bring them a sign.
God could bring them all to guidance if it were his will.
So do not join the ignorant.
So basically God is saying, I will not give you any miracle.
No sign will be given to you.
I want to show them a sign.
God says to Prophet Muhammad, dig a tunnel into the ground or mount a ladder up to the skies and show them a sign yourself.
I'm not going to give it to you.
So that's the statement of the Quran.
Yeah, but you're presupposing that the Quran is like logically consistent.
I'm not making that presupposition.
So this is fine.
The verses that you just read about the moon, it is interpreted by most leading scholars who are non-Muslim.
Non-Muslim leading scholars, including Marijan van Putten, one of the linguists who's currently investigating the Quranic literature.
He has confirmed, I think probably on Derek's channel, that those verses cannot be interpreted to mean that Quran has been split.
So what is the meaning?
It's eschatological.
It's about to happen kind of verses.
Okay, so the moon will be split.
The moon will be struck basically, not split, struck.
Okay, and that hasn't happened yet.
Yeah, hasn't happened yet, yes.
Okay, are there hadiths that go into the moon splitting or is that not?
Yeah, those songs were popular.
We call them nat, like melodies or songs.
Even after song those songs when I was a kid.
There were these beautiful songs in the culture, in tradition, that praise this phenomenon of moon splitting and things like that.
So yeah, that's part of tradition.
But is it in the hadiths, are they past tense or pre-tensed?
No, I'm telling you, this concept has evolved in the tradition where people have come to think
that the moon actually split, okay?
Yeah, because I've had debates with Muslims on Tik Tok who told me it did happen
and that some king in India saw it happen.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, so I don't know who to believe here.
This story is pretty famous of a Hindu king in southern India, Kerala State.
His name was, his surname was Chairman and there's this first mosque being built in India in the 7th century.
That's very early, very early for Islam to have traveled to India.
But they have added this story to it.
In the conversion of the king, a Keralite king, Chairman to Islam.
Obviously that happened through traders who were traveling for a spice trade to India.
But later on, there's a legend that's been created of his conversion that he actually saw the moon split being in India.
So that prompted him to convert.
Legends like these have been spun and these sort of stories have been very prevalent across the Muslim world.
From Morocco to Indonesia and from Yemen to Turkey or even Bosnia for that matter.
So those sort of traditions have been propagated by people at the time, basically unsupported by the scripture.
Right, okay.
Well, I mean, like, if I was the Muslim, I'd be saying the exact same thing.
I wouldn't think that the moon had split in two.
I would probably take an approach.
So I have to give you take my head off that I at least you're more reasonable than most Muslims that I have spoken to about this.
So do you think that they're just getting it wrong?
It happens.
This sort of thing happens to all people also to religions succumb to folklore that emerge in their religions to praise to to theater, you know, exuberance, you know what I mean.
So, so this is very natural.
People do this.
Oh, yeah, like, you're talking to people like to do this.
People would like to do this.
You know, every religion.
Absolutely.
What was born out of the side of his mother and then said like some words like as soon as he was born, like, there's lots of stuff.
Yeah, but like, but I don't, I don't know.
It's true.
Absolutely.
I mean, what happens, unfortunately, is down the line, it gets accepted as true.
But people who created it, content creators back in those days would have created for for for joy.
But down the line, the story propagates and becomes truth.
And, you know, in people's conscience, which is not basically supported by the scripture, though.
So if the if the Quran, so the Quran for you is something that is like is like is essentially perfect.
Like you, it's an amazing revelation, doesn't have any inconsistencies, right?
Like the concepts and stuff.
And that's part of the reason you accept it as true now that you've got an analytical thinking mind.
Is that right?
Yeah, the story actually kicked off when I immigrated to Australia and I met people here, basically atheists.
And they challenged me to continue with belief, but substantiated or just quit it.
And when when I was cornered, that's when I sat down to write those books.
And at that point in time, 10 years ago, when I came here when I immigrated, I had read the Quran multiple times in the Arabic language.
And I had great deal of understanding of the actual, the original Arabic in the Quran, the Quranic language.
And what I did not have is a complete story.
I knew that when I was talking about astronomy and origins of life and origins of planet Earth and its skies and everything.
But I did not have a complete story to tell, you know what I mean?
So that's when I sat down to write a book and I was not really confident that I would complete that as a book, but it eventually happened.
And I was glad I was happy and there was this justification within me that, yes, now I can stand the ground because I've got this justification.
If I guess my hypothetical question was, let's say that a new prophet arises, right?
I know that the Quran says that.
New prophet arises and produces a work as double as impressive as the Quran.
It's more poetically phonetically amazing in its original language.
It says things that are so wildly inconceivable.
It finds the cure to cancer.
It says, look at this gene and these types of cancers and you will eliminate cancer.
Like it is amazing.
With that then, and it also says, by the way, the Quran is lying.
The Bible is lying and all these other religions like would you then switch to this new faith even had more explanatory power than your current faith?
I mean, I would definitely ask for where the Quran is lying or where the Quran is faulty or has an error to point it out and explain it.
So if it did, then I would.
Okay, but what if it didn't have like it?
Like what if it said the Quran doesn't have any errors, but it's just not accurate?
What do you mean?
The sentence is not coherent.
Well, you don't subscribe to the Bible, right?
Well, you know, as a whole, you subscribe to parts of it that have been retranslated by the Quran.
You don't believe Jesus was the Son of God.
You don't believe that.
You don't believe those things, right?
So what I'm saying is what if there's a third testament, I guess, that isn't the Book of Mormon, and it's them saying, well, you know, Muhammad got some things right in the Quran, but it's not as accurate as we would like it to be.
This has more testable predictions that a more novel, would you then switch?
Or would you then subscribe to this new religion?
It said you'd have to pray six times a day.
So it was even more rigorous in it.
So what I'm trying to get at is like, it's a funny hypothetical.
I hope you don't find any malice in what I'm asking, but it's like, I'm just trying to test the boundaries of the revelatory power that you give to the Quran.
I'll tell you, I'll tell you my boundary.
I already told you, you probably missed it.
If the Quran is proven or disproven or proven wrong, I would be encouraged to quit my faith.
But do you see how it's hard to disprove it?
It's hard to disprove it.
Why?
It's hard to disprove it.
Because why not?
Hang on, hang on.
When the Quran says the moon is split, and then we go, oh, actually, what that's talking about is it's talking about posts.
It's going to be split.
And then when it says we're made out of clay and we go, well, actually, the hypothesis is that the single cell organism was built by the amino acids that are in muddy water.
Like when you start to take one part and extrapolate it to anything, like I could give you any.
The Quran could say that the sky is, well, let's say the color of the sky never is green.
The sky is green or something.
You could say the moon's made of cheese.
And then there would be a way to justify that.
Well, actually, cheese is just made of these type of minerals, and we know that the moon has these type of minerals in there.
So technically, you could make up any story to fit the story of the Quran, right?
No, no.
I mean, it may be requiring some sort of, some commitment from your side to investigate the Quranic text for what sort of information it presents.
I didn't investigate it.
I wasn't impressed, except for some parts were quite beautiful.
Some parts I found quite horrific, right?
Some parts were definitely beautiful, but I also think parts of the Bible are beautiful and parts of the Bhagavad Gita are beautiful and both have problems.
Like, the Bhagavad Gita has the caste system from Krishna, and the Bible has slavery and all that.
And, you know, Quran 434 talks about beating your wives.
Like, there are parts that I don't agree with in these religious texts, but I also, there are also parts that I find beautiful, but I just don't attach the truth value to them.
I wasn't convinced enough to change me from non-belief to belief.
Actually, what you might be missing is the premise from where the scripture is giving you some guidance or some insights.
Like, for example, one of the 434, for example.
Yeah, totally unimpressed.
I wasn't impressed. I found it disgusting.
Disgusting, when the Quran gives you permission to beat your wife, right?
Not permission, it tells you to. It instructs you to.
Now, you say God has been watching humanity for a long time.
And you say the domestic violence in the current world,
Ewan has been battling to solve this problem for 50 years.
Can I just say, because I know, I can't see where you're going.
I know that the Quran is not talking about domestic violence in regards to someone, like a husband going and just beating their wife senseless.
I know it's a last resort as in, first of all, I didn't like the idea that you could ignore your wife.
Just ignore her.
That seems passive-aggressive to me. That doesn't seem like instructions from an all-powerful deity.
And secondly, when it says hit her, it doesn't matter what it is.
You should never hit anybody, you know what I mean?
Like, there's not many people I would hit for any reason.
I mean, I would argue that that verse is a lifesaver.
And that verse is a lifesaver for reasons that I would list it down here.
In my opinion, if that verse is legislated, it will contribute to prevention.
I would like to reword it.
It's the best intervention scheme that you can think of to tackle the problem that we have in the present world, the domestic violence.
Because the reason, because the Quran does recognize, God does recognize the attitudes of men towards women.
And the Quran says, okay, you want to do that?
Okay, here's how you do it.
First thing, if you have a strong disagreement with your partner, counsel her.
First thing you got to do is counsel her.
You can't beat her, counsel her.
That's the first thing the Quran says, okay?
Yeah, I was just posting in the comments so everyone can see exactly what we're looking at.
Yeah, I mean, did you not find this bit of information gracious?
Graciousness.
So the Quran says the first thing you got to do, it says the first thing you got to do is counsel her.
Yeah, husbands should take full care of their wives with the bounties God has given to some more than others.
And we've, well, first of all, why is God giving some to others and not anyway, let's move on with what they spend out of their own mother.
Righteous wives are devout and God, God, what God has would have given them God in their husband's absence.
I don't like the power play there as if like women are lesser.
But anyway, I'll leave that so we can get to that.
That's not what it means though.
That's not what it means though.
Yeah.
Well, I retract that.
What it basically says is when the man is out and you're looking after his back, so you better do your best.
That's what it says.
Okay.
Okay.
So you should not approach this verse from a bias or being prejudiced.
You're right.
No, you're right.
I was being prejudiced in mind.
Get the information out from that verse.
Yeah.
That's actually a really good point.
I did actually do that.
If you fear high handedness from your wives, remind them of the teachings of God, then ignore them when they go to bed, then hit them.
This is mis-translated here.
It's not reminded of God.
It's counsel them.
The first thing you're supposed to do is counsel them.
Okay.
The first thing, if you go back to the verse, you've got to be doing is to counsel them, God says, counsel them first thing.
Okay.
The second thing, you still can't hit them.
Right?
Still can't hit them.
So the second thing is if they continue and you dislike it, then separate the beds.
Yeah.
All right.
Which seems passive aggressive.
No.
What is actually God doing is God is giving the essential time for that relationship to come out clean.
It's giving the time that the woman needs to come out clean.
So first, on the first instance, counseling.
I'll let you finish.
I'll let you finish.
Yeah.
First instance, the first step is to counsel and the woman knows once the counseling is set up, if this is a law in Australia, for example, the counseling agencies get into the relationship.
The first bill is counseling.
So the counseling agencies will get into it.
And after the counseling, if they're together again, and if it continues, look, it's a life saver.
God says, you can't beat it.
You can't beat it the second time.
No, you got to separate the beds.
And that's when the authorities are informed again, and the authorities will pitch in and figure out if she wants to continue to live with him or not.
If she wants, if she doesn't want to live with him, live with him.
There you go.
You can start the process of separation.
This verse is actually a life saver.
In my opinion, if it's legislated in Australia, it will be a great intervention to hang on.
You didn't get to the part where.
Okay.
First of all, Nuri Akam, when she came on this podcast, she tried to leave her abusive husband and the courts ruled in his favor.
And then he was, she was court ordered to go back with her partner under Islamic law.
And that was in Dubai.
So that's not, you know, not, not exactly the same as Australia, but it was still an Islamic law that they use.
Secondly, what you never got to the part where it says, hit her.
Absolutely.
I'm coming to that point.
Okay.
Once, once the, the second step is passed, you know, she is ready, you know, she wants to mend herself or whatever.
No, she has a chance on the second bill, whether to amend her contact or to separate.
But if she thinks she can amend the con her contact.
Okay.
The second bill.
And then she continues with her behavior.
And that's when God says, what you will do is now you can beat her.
Right.
So what God is doing is God is interjecting the beating process and giving two life saving options for the women to make a decision whether she wants to continue to live with that man or not.
So she must, a lady must be prudent enough, smart enough by then to figure out whether she wants to continue to live with a man or not.
Can, can other, hang on, other instructions in the Quran for how a woman can beat her husband.
I mean, there, I mean, if a woman beats her husband, I don't think so.
It's anti Islamic.
It's not anti Islamic.
If she can't beat her husband.
No, no, no, no.
That's not what I asked.
That's not what I asked.
Is the other instructions in the Quran for how a wife can beat her husband like that.
Same conditions.
God is full of wisdom and he doesn't want to spoil the day for ladies.
He doesn't want to say ladies, you can go and beat your husbands and then get beaten back in blue in revenge.
God doesn't want to spoil the day.
You know what I mean?
So that's not how God, that's not how God comes to give guidance.
He comes to alleviate problems of humanity.
He says, if you want to beat your wives, look, don't beat them straight away.
Follow these two steps.
So the first bill, the council, the counseling gets into, gets into the relationship, tries to sort the issue out.
And if they continue, the second bill is a life saver.
And I, I firmly believe David, if Australia legislates this law, domestic violence in Australia will plummet by great measure, great measure.
So Australians today, today Australians, you must be knowing these facts.
Australians try to control their women so much so that they control their bank accounts and they control them from pursuing studies.
Australians today in 21st century.
I don't think, I don't think anyone should control anyone in a relationship.
Absolutely.
Hang on.
This is the mindset of a man.
This is the mindset of a man up until, up until today, 21st century.
No.
So how do you mitigate this?
David, please let me show you.
UN has been trying to solve this issue from 50 years.
If you look at the data, the World Health Organization, WHO, I'm sorry, I said UN, WHO has been on this project since 1975.
It's been good amount of five decades, decades, 50 years almost.
What, what do we have?
Rampant domestic violence, where in America, in Australia, you have regions in the, in, in, in the current demographics of the world.
You have regions, you have many different countries where women are actually defenders of these violence, of this violence in several cases.
You know what I mean?
This is the mindset of the people.
I have in fact seen admissions by Australian women in Adelaide on Facebook.
They're okay to say, that's what we are, and it's okay if the bloke's beat us.
This is the mindset of, this is the mindset of people, people have this mindset.
I don't care about people's mindsets, right?
Like, so if I'm in a relationship, a pretty loving relationship, and so I would never go to separate the beds, right?
My wife and I, we would talk everything out before, and please let me finish.
That's what everyone says, David.
First thing is counseling.
Yeah, hang on.
Let me finish.
Let me finish.
Let me finish.
Let me.
Okay, let me finish.
Okay.
Right.
Okay.
First of all, I wouldn't separate the beds.
Okay.
I would go to counseling and all that stuff.
If it ever got to the stage where I'd have to hit my partner or she'd have to hit me, we'd separate.
Right.
Like, I wouldn't, I wouldn't go down that.
Like, there's no, it's, it's, it's insane to me.
And please let me finish.
It's insane to me that you're, you're in a way, you're kind of teasing God.
You're saying that God couldn't come up with a better system than to result to violence.
Right.
And I'm saying, stop teasing God.
It's not okay to tease Allah.
It's not okay to tease God.
God would not like, we don't have better systems today that like, for me, we resolve everything
through mutual conversation, through talking about, hey, I felt very upset when you did
X and then she says, I felt very upset when you did X and we communicate.
If I was God, I, I could write that in the Quran and it would alleviate most of the, it
would alleviate, it would make relationships so much better than to say to hit them.
Like, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, um, it paints gone out to be not only
cruel, but like, if you, if you believe these are from God, it paints them not only to be
God, not only just to be cruel, but dumb.
And I'm not saying that you're saying that I'm saying the creator of the universe wouldn't
do that.
I'm saying the creator of the universe wouldn't do it.
Like if you create a universe, he wouldn't be saying, hey, results of violence, if things
get too hard.
No, you've got a wrong idea of the creator of the universe.
Creator of the universe has created a hellfire to punish people.
Creator of the universe.
Yeah.
Even that.
No.
Creator of the universe.
Creator of the universe believes in deterrence through physical means.
This is what the creator of the universe believes.
Okay.
A great example of why he doesn't exist.
No, look, this is what the creator of the universe is actually doing.
He believes in physical deterrence.
Okay.
He does.
And you see what people want to argue about all these morals and stuff like that at the
end of the day, they have armies and they work their days and nights and still fund
their defense forces to do what?
To inflict physical damage.
Look, we have to be...
You're not going to find...
I'm not going to...
What if it's one who...
People eventually...
Now, look, I mean, you must be a fringe.
I mean, as Australia, defense force is a primary wing of Australian society.
We praise it, we cherish it, we work towards it.
We want the defenses to be right.
I mean...
Yeah, I don't agree with that.
I don't like the defense force.
I think it's a necessary thing that we have, but I don't think it should be glorified at
all.
Big fights with my friends on Facebook who are in the army.
David, let me tell you this.
David, let me tell you this.
People are of different...
People are of different makeups.
God does not say everybody has to be their wives.
God says, if you can resolve things amicably, resolve it.
This is not the only verse that gives guidance for relationship between husband and wife.
There are a whole set of verses in chapter two, which talk about the relationship between
husband and a wife, and it says, if you can resolve your issues and matters amicably,
then that's good, and that's kind enough, and God loves it.
And this is how God gives guidance.
But here, God is giving guidance to all human beings, not just for good people, okay?
Who wants to be kind and compassionate, but he's also giving guidance to other tough
folks who are out there and who will do the damage.
So he says, before you do the damage, remember, my counsel to you is you have to go through
two bells, the first bell being counseling, the second bell being separation.
And if that is not enough for you to amend your lives, both of you, then you must be
stupid enough to ring the third bell.
Let me reword it for you, right?
Okay.
The first step, masturbate.
The second step, watch some pornography.
The third step, go to a prostitute.
And if you still can't get your fill, then you can rape the person that you're going to rape.
That's a very...
I can't make sense of that analogy, to be honest.
Yeah, because it's a horrible example of what you're telling me.
I would say, if I was...
I would just say, don't beat.
Full stop.
No beating.
Beating bad.
That's what I would say if I was a creditor.
Okay, okay.
I've got a question to you now.
I've got a question to you.
All right.
What if somebody beats after that?
Sorry?
Allah says don't beat, okay?
And what if people beat after that?
Well, it would be better than...
I don't know.
What do you mean?
Not then saying you can beat under these circumstances.
Look, God can say don't beat.
It's very simple for God to say that.
But he's saying to beat.
But does that actually work?
The question is, does that actually work in human society?
God knows and has seen nations of human beings.
So if we found...
Hang on.
He thinks this is the adequate solution.
The solution is...
Okay, so if we found a study, a sociological study that said that in countries where they
have outlawed domestic, where they've outlawed physical violence versus countries that have
an outlawed physical violence, if we've seen a decrease in physical violence in countries
that have outlawed it and put in protective measures to stop smacking kids and stop hitting
and stop to stop advertising violence and so much, if we found that, that would disprove
the Quran, right?
Look, in America, it got outlawed, yeah?
Beating Y for the provision in the law in several states in the United States of America
until recently, right?
They outlawed it at the turn of the 19th century, for example, right?
So have they become good people?
There are seven women put to death in America every week.
Or maybe every day, I'm not sure.
Maybe every week, if you can check the statistics.
Every week, seven women in America die.
And it's horrible.
Even this is the result after they've outlawed it.
Yeah, but I understand that.
What I'm saying is they don't have a provision in the law of this kind that comes in 434.
434, what it does is it says, okay, you want to beat women, okay.
But this is the first step, counsel them.
The second step is separation of beds.
And you know what?
This is a lifesaver because the agencies get involved in this relationship
and they will figure out it is harmful to proceed and it's better to separate.
And this is what God does.
He's being merciful and has enacted this legislation as a lifesaver.
I don't know why people don't understand this.
Well, okay.
Maybe I can explain where I'm coming from.
You're Australian, right?
And do you like guns?
Do you think we should have AK-47s and stuff like everywhere?
Or do you think are you pretty okay with the gun laws that we have in Australia?
So look, if you don't have it, others will have it.
Okay, so do you like guns?
So you want to have them as defense?
No, no.
Others will have it.
Okay, okay.
So maybe you're the wrong person to ask, but this sounds very much like when the Republicans say that
the answer to school shootings is more people with guns.
Right?
We don't have any school shootings in Australia.
Zero.
Absolutely zero school shootings.
No, wait a second.
Wait a second.
In Australia, they submitted the weapons, right?
Australians, they dumped the weapons and all those weapons got what do you call them?
Destroyed, yes.
Destroyed, yeah.
That's something that Americans should do.
America as a country, as a country, its defense is insured because it was a defense force.
There's a defense force acting on behalf of the country.
So individuals in the country need not have weapons.
Yeah.
But what I'm saying is that's what it sounds like to me.
You're essentially saying in order to stop beatings, we need to allow a little bit of beatings.
That's what it sounds like.
In order to stop gun violence, we need to add more guns.
I know that's not what you believe.
I'm just telling you what it is.
No, no, no, wait a second.
You're not getting the point.
The point being, the point being, if God has legislated, no beating period.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then people go on to beat.
How is God relevant any longer?
How is God relevant any longer?
I understand that, Masoud.
You just asked the question.
You said, I don't know how people get this.
And I was just explaining.
I was just saying, to me, it looks very similar to that.
But a critical fact, we asked a question and I don't know what he's referencing.
He said, David, please ask Masoud about the chronic verse where the very situation is in reverse.
Ask him about the steps taken.
What are the steps taken?
What if the woman wants to beat?
Yeah.
See, look, the Quran does not prohibit a woman not to beat the man.
It does not prohibit it.
Nowhere you will find a statement in the Quran.
Ladies, you cannot beat your husbands.
This statement is not in the Quran.
Okay.
If the lady wants to beat the man, she can.
But the risks are at odds.
She's at high risk to be beaten back.
I know.
Yeah.
And this is not the approach of a compassionate God.
Is that what critical faculty is asking?
The chronic verse where the very situation is in reverse.
Is that what he was asking?
I don't get it.
The chronic verse where the very situation is in reverse.
Ask him about the steps taken.
The steps taken will be the same if the woman wants to beat or the man wants to beat.
See, look, there is equality in law.
In the Quran, if you read verses in chapter 2 where the Quran is talking about relationships between a man and a woman,
it gives the ladies equality in relationships.
There's a verse in the Quran.
It says the rights are similar to ladies.
So even if a lady wants to beat a man, she has to go through counseling first and then separation of the beds.
And then if it continues, it's of course she can beat.
But what I'm saying is, if she ends up beating him and gets beaten back, the stakes are high and there's great damage being done.
Yeah.
I understand that.
But so what if, and I'm sorry this has gotten passionate.
Obviously, we both have very differing opinions and very heated discussion.
I hope you don't think that I don't like you as a person.
I'm just passionate about you.
No, absolutely.
I like the conversation how it's going.
It should be this way.
So you're saying that it's actually a deterrent.
So if Australia enacted this, it would be a deterrent because the first step is counseling.
Second step is counseling.
Third step is removing, changing the beds.
And then the fourth step is you can hit that.
No, no, no.
The first step is counseling.
The second step is changing the beds.
Okay.
Third step is counseling again.
No, no, no.
The third step is the freedom to beat.
Okay.
Okay.
Cool.
But you got those first two steps.
The liberty to beat.
Yes.
Second step is separation of the beds.
Third bell is the liberty to beat.
Yeah.
So what if I wrote my own holy texts right now?
Deep drinks, 434.
And I just said the same thing, but I said there was no beating.
So I said, first step, if you're in a horrible relationship, you got to counsel.
Second step, you got to separate the beds.
Perfect.
So wouldn't that be...
See, God does not necessitate people to go through the third step.
But yes, I know.
But would that reduce or increase the number of people getting...
Why is it getting beaten?
I think people wouldn't mind it.
They would just continue beating as it happens today.
Would it reduce or increase the amount of women getting beaten?
Look, for example, people...
Why would people follow these steps?
You tell me.
People would follow these steps.
Because they believe in a God.
And God has said this.
And they fear the God.
They fear the personality.
They fear the entity.
Because God will rebuke them in hellfire if they broke the law.
So there's a lot of this reverence of God that comes with this legislation.
If you were to say, if you were to omit beating,
I don't think the situation would change in any way.
The current...
The status quo.
Because people are not afraid of you or afraid of your retribution on Judgment Day.
You know what I mean?
So this verse, I am arguing, is a lifesaver.
If it is legislated, I'm sure the numbers will comment.
If it was legislated, and there was two civilizations, right?
There was Australia and Australia 2.0.
And one had the third verse amended, removed, and one didn't.
Which society do you think would have more beatings?
The society which has the amended verse.
Which has removed these...
Yeah, which has removed this verse.
Which has this verse, right?
It will be far better off.
Because you know, this is how you are educated.
You go five times a prayer, and these are the teachings that you're going through the prayers, right?
So you recite these teachings, you commit these teachings to your memory,
and you try to moderate yourself with these teachings.
So when the situation arises domestically in your house,
when the situation is really hard, you bring these teachings to mind.
And the first thing you do is you call the counseling, and you counsel the situation.
The second thing you do is separate the beds.
And that's ample time for a smart lady to make a decision
whether she wants to continue the relationship, or she wants to amend...
If someone wants to beat their wife, why do they listen to the first two steps anyway?
Because if they don't listen, they have repercussions with God.
So why don't we just remend the third verse to say, don't hit them, instead of hit them?
Sorry?
So if we amended the last verse to remove the hitting part, yeah?
If we removed the hitting part, you were saying that would increase beatings.
Look, essentially God is saying don't hit.
Essentially that's what he's being said.
In a sense, what I'm saying is there's two bells that are given to you
to make a judgment with the help of the authorities, counseling agencies,
whether the relationship is deleterious or not.
You've given two good opportunities, and any smart lady should know what she is doing.
I understand that.
And families are more complex.
You're still not answering my question.
If you just give me a simple yes or no, in a society where we have the same verses,
and once again, you said that the reason why people would follow them
is because they don't want eternal punishment in hell.
So in the same situation, but Quran 4.34 says, never hit your wife.
It says the same thing, but at the end it says, but never hit your wife.
Do you think we'll have more or less beatings of wives in society?
Never hit your wife would be like the situation is worse at home,
and he has to just put up with it.
The situation is not moderated.
The problems are not alleviated.
The problems remain.
If there is no conclusive guideline given, the problems remain.
It's like God has not given appropriate guidance in the situation.
If that would be the case.
Today, Australians and Americans beat their wives.
It's not because of the Quran, is it?
No, I don't think they do.
But this is what I'm trying to get across.
I think that humans, sure, if humans come up with that law,
if there was a law in Australia that said,
hey, beat your wives after they disobey you a few times,
then I'll be like, one, that's a disgusting law.
But two, okay, I can see how stupid humans might come up with that
by the creator of the universe.
I don't know.
That sounds like an insult to the creator of the universe.
That sounds like teasing the creator of the universe to say
that the creator of the universe would make that argument.
Look, the premise with the creator is he has organized Hellfire to punish.
You don't need the hitting.
No, look, no, no, no.
Hitting does happen.
The Quran is very clear in saying when the disbelievers die,
at the time of their death, the angels come and smack them,
smack their faces.
So why can't that be a deterrent?
I'm just going to keep asking, why can't that be a deterrent?
What do you mean?
Why can't that be the deterrent not hitting someone?
What do you mean?
Why can't that be a deterrent?
Why can't the deterrent be to the wives that the angels are going to do something to them?
Or they're going to be in eternal Hellfire.
Why can't that be the threat of physical violence?
No, well, that is.
There is already threats from God of Hellfire.
There is already threats from the angels.
Why is it also the threat of physical violence?
We have a life.
We have a life to live.
We live a life.
There's a lifetime until when God intervenes,
or the angels intervene.
Angels only intervene at the time of death,
and God intervenes on Judgment Day.
There's a time until then for us to make a life.
There is deterrence in all walks of life.
Is there anything that the Quran could say that you wouldn't get behind?
If you like found some verse that you're like,
oh, I'd never read this before and it said,
just really get into molesting children.
Would you be like, well, actually, no, you only meant to molest children?
Or is there any point that you'd say this is not okay?
No, Quran does not give guidance about beating children.
Of course it doesn't.
But I'm asking you if it did.
Like I said, I think a lot of the Quran is beautiful.
No, why are we being hypothetical to the extent that it's becoming irrational?
Because a rational person, in my opinion, would say,
no, I don't believe that a God would command such a thing.
Or if they do, if God did command such a thing,
I don't want to worship that God.
David, I can see the rational behind why God has said such a thing.
And I can see the wisdom in how he wants to alleviate the problems
of humans beating their wives.
For me, it's a life saver.
I don't know why you're failing to see the point.
I mean, we have had humanity for many eons.
And in the 21st century, you would expect those problems to subside.
Have actually gone out of our books.
We shouldn't even have a debate like this.
But they are unfortunately.
And they've gotten a lot better.
But they're like significantly better.
But I mean, the problem is that we're holding on to old dogmas like that.
No, no Australian and no American has read the Quran and said,
oh, there you go.
That's why that's how we can beat our wives.
I know. Nobody does. Nobody does.
I know. All right. Yes.
Yeah, I'm not saying that they do, but I'm saying that these these old thoughts
and these old dogmas is what like these, you know,
why couldn't same-sex couples get married in Australia?
Well, it was the religious saying God made Adam and Eve, not Adam and Steve, right?
Like that's like it was it was it was because it was because of religious thought.
It wasn't because of any rational reason.
It wasn't like, like, let me ask you this.
Okay.
And let me write this down to actually ask us like a main and we'll wrap up.
But I want to ask you this.
Sorry.
Do. Okay.
So this is a question I was going to ask you if we touched on LGBT rights,
but we didn't.
And I'm sure we would have screamed at each other just as much in that section.
Eventually it eventually it eventually got down to a debate.
You wanted a word.
Yeah.
Well, it was a debate.
It was more just more of a spicy screaming session.
But yeah, I think we're we probably want a bit further than I would like.
But, you know, let's let's end it on some good terms.
But do you think that people have the right to live under under Islam providing
like to live how they want under Islam providing and not hurting anybody?
Can you come again, please?
I missed it.
Do people have the right to live how they want to live under Islam providing
they're not hurting anybody?
Absolutely.
If a man doesn't hurt anybody, he's safe.
Okay.
So if a man wants to have sex with another man,
is he under Islam?
Is he okay to do that?
If you know, what is Islam?
Islam is the agreement of people to abide by certain laws, right?
So if a society, for example, Australia point to 2.0.
Australia 2.0 has decided to to be Islamic and to to to observe the laws of the Quran.
Right.
Then they would legislate what is criminal behavior.
Okay.
So in that they would legislate same sex behavior as as a criminal conduct.
Okay.
In that scenario, in that scenario, they would be criminally charged.
Okay.
So the answer would be no.
People cannot live how they want under Islamic, under Islamic society.
Right.
No, look, no, look, no, look, but if, but if under Islamic society, obviously, it's not
how much in this 100% all the time.
There's always French populations living within.
I'm talking about.
Yeah.
An ideal Islamic society.
I'm not talking about like an ideal Islamic society was how much it got.
It got into during the early Islamic period in the early Islamic green.
Okay.
So in, in, in that period, there were of course different religions that are part and parcel
of this Islamic empire.
Right.
So Islam ensured they had the rights to do their affairs according to their systems and
procedures and laws and rules and regulations and beliefs and creed.
Okay.
Islam does not meddle with it.
So suppose in Australia 2.0, the whole of Australian society has contracted Islam and
there is a French population who have adhered to their arrangements from Australia 1.0 and
they will want to continue because they had had a prior plebiscite.
Okay.
To ensuring there's their ways of life.
And because there was a change over now Australia 2.0 Islamic Islamic Australia would still continue
to ensure the, the, the sanctity of the population to choose the way they want to live.
Okay.
They would not meddle with it.
But Muslims who have become Muslims who have submitted to God and if they do criminal
conduct, they would be penalized.
And not the people who, who, who, who have a, who have a protection to live, to live.
Yeah.
So under, under a perfect Islamic society, people would not have the right to live how they
want to live providing that.
Not as Muslims, not as Muslims, but as non Muslims, they would.
Yeah.
So as non Muslims, we can have homosexuality in a Muslim country.
If, if, if they have the rights, if they have ensured their rights, could women be
unveiled?
Could women walk down the street with a bikini?
Say, look, women were walking naked and in Makkah.
Yeah.
So, so, so yes or no.
So yes.
Could they, could they, they could walk unveiled like with not much covered.
See the, the Islamic rules are for Muslims.
Sharia is for the only non Muslims.
It's not for non Muslims.
People have a misunderstanding that if it's Sharia, then we can't do whatever we want to
do.
Sharia is for Muslims.
Yeah.
I apologize for getting heated.
It's just, it's frustrating to me when I ask you like a simple yes or no question and
instead you'll go onto a tangent and then answer the question right at the end.
You can just answer.
I'm going to give you time to, to explain what you're going to say.
But someone asked, someone asked, Meredith asked, assuming it wasn't already discussed,
why did Muhammad have a six year old child as his wife when he was over 50 years old?
Is that true?
I don't believe that to be true.
I believe that to be a misunderstanding.
Look, people would now say, oh, that's just my opinion.
I'm trying to be playing safe because the majority of the Muslims believe that to be the true.
So I would like to just give a little difference.
Although I don't believe the story to be true.
The differences are Asia who lived longevity after, after Prophet Muhammad's demise.
Suppose she got married to him at six and consummated the marriage at nine.
She was probably 18 when Prophet Muhammad passed away.
Right.
And she lived for a long time after that.
And she was not a, she was not a woman that would sit at home.
If you knew her profile, she actually led a conflict into Iraq.
She was a leader.
She was an amazing woman.
Nobody, she would not want anybody else to defend her rights.
She was very outspoken.
She was a leader.
She would probably make a case if she had been violated.
Do you accept the Bakari?
She doesn't need the defense of the modern world.
Do you accept the Bakari, like the Hadith that it's in?
Or do you not accept that as true?
See, a Muslim is entitled to believe and walk.
That's not what I'm asking.
I just ask you, do you accept the Bakari?
I don't think for me it is required to go beyond the Quran.
The Quran is the guidance given by Almighty God to Prophet Muhammad
and he delivered it to us as guidance.
So that's what I follow.
I don't see the need to go beyond it, to be honest.
Okay.
So do you accept it?
That's a yes or no?
No.
I mean, there's no need to accept anything beyond the Quran.
The Quran is the guidance from Almighty God to humankind.
So do you believe that it's possibly...
Do you believe that...
Well, I imagine that when the other...
And another Hadith says that she was playing with her dolls.
Do you don't accept that either?
Yeah, I told you how the stories can be inflated down the line by people.
And I'm not denying that.
I'm just trying to get like a robust, like a simple answer from you.
So like, you know, she said, I used to play with...
This is what her she said.
I used to play with the dolls in the presence of the Prophet.
This is what...
And this is what you don't accept.
I just want to make that clear.
Alleged.
Alleged.
Yes.
I used to play with the dolls in the presence of the Prophet.
And my girlfriends also used to play with me.
When our last messenger used to enter my dwelling place,
they used to hide themselves.
But the Prophet would call them to join and play with me.
The playing with the dolls and similar images is forbidden,
but is allowed for Asha at the time as she was a little girl,
not yet reached the age of puberty, which is...
But I mean, I'm just reading that so everyone has the context.
But of course, you don't accept that.
You don't think we need to get past the Quran.
Because the Quran is very clear in saying...
Putting up the marriage age for girls, the Quran is very clear in saying,
it's not even puberty.
It's the soundness of their mental state,
which can be easily a 16-year-old or even an 18-year-old, for example, right?
It can easily be that according to the Quran,
chapter 4 verse 3, the Quran is laying down a regulation for marriageable age
to be not based on puberty, but based on maturity of the mind.
How young do you think someone can be to be mature enough?
That's up to people to come together and decide or legislate.
The Quran advocates people that they should consult their affairs mutually.
So all their affairs, their legislations should be mutually consulted.
And that's how any system would stand and fruition.
I don't want any of the conversations we're having to come across as a diss on Islam in any way.
I know that the majority...
You know what, I'm actually thankful that you don't accept that I was 6,
at least because I worry sometimes when people say,
yeah, she was 6 years old and Muhammad slept with her when she was 9,
but that's OK, that's more worrying.
But I just want people who may be watching this not to attack ideas,
not the religion as a whole, not the people as a whole.
I equally come down against bigotry, racism, Islamophobism,
as I do with any other form of bigotry.
But in this conversation, obviously we're trying to discuss the topics in which we disagree.
So I just want to bring that up.
So I've got a couple of questions to end the interview.
And I'm going to change the temperature a little bit.
I'm going to add a few questions in.
What's your favorite book?
What's my favorite book?
Yeah, I can novel.
I'm from India.
I was not super into reading.
I always ended up playing outside.
I was never into books.
I hated school.
I hated my college.
I was just waiting for it to get done, begin working, be independent.
I was never into novels, to be honest.
I'm not lying.
It's only when I came to Australia.
I was challenged and I was given books to read by my friend Peter Morris.
And that's when he just posted me books after books after books from Richard Dawkins,
Carl Sagan's and Jerry A coin.
And one of the books I should admit that I read page cover to cover is Jerry A coins.
Why evolution is true.
So I like the book.
I like the way he wrote it.
What did you think of it?
It was a great book to read and I liked it.
And I sort of got educated to write a response.
So until then, I thought writing was something out of the world for me, like impossible.
You can imagine being from a non English speaking background,
how hard that would be to sit down and write a book.
So obviously it was not on my mind.
And when I read Jerry A coins, why evolution is true,
I kind of liked the way he just narrated science and questioned God on every page almost.
So I got the idea of how to write a response because I was, I was, I was, I've got a science background.
I've studied biology in my, in my 12th.
And I had a, I haven't got an engineering degree.
I could, I could deduce and his arguments at great detail.
And I could, I knew the response to hit some of his arguments.
And that's when that's when I think I was, I became serious enough to give him a response.
Well, that's interesting.
I haven't actually read the book, but what do you think is his most convincing argument?
The one that was the hardest for you to tackle.
Harder for me to tackle of what I should say is, in fact, I don't like about the evolution.
Biologists says, I would say, I don't like about, I don't like this thing that they do is when things get really hot and difficult,
they say, Oh, it happened over millions of years.
So they make this phrase millions of years as a strong defense.
I kind of don't like that when they do that.
Cause it's like, cause it's like hard to evaluate.
I mean, I mean, they're not coming out and explaining stuff.
They're like, Oh, we can't explain this because it happened over millions of years.
So every time it gets difficult for them, they would go, it happened millions of years.
And I'm like, what do you mean millions of years?
I mean, you can't even explain why human beings don't grow as much hair as the primates do.
You can't even explain that.
That's the last thing that probably would have happened because we started wearing clothes very recently.
And in Australia, it was very recent, just a couple of hundred years ago.
Can't you even explain that with all your expertise?
But they want to, every time it gets difficult for them, they would say, No, it really happened.
Millions of years. We can't really explain.
But I could say the same to you.
Like if we're made out of clay, why do we have hair at all?
You know, you can't even explain that new Quran.
You can't even explain that we have hair.
Like we're made out of clay.
We should be like completely like slippery.
You know, like I can say the same thing.
That's not the same thing.
That's not the same thing.
Out of clay, there's animals.
There's beasts. There's feathers.
Out of clay, the pigeons have feathers.
The birds have it.
Out of clay, there's scales.
The fish have scales.
Out of clay, there's skinny rats.
Bear skinny rats.
Out of clay, there's so much.
There's leather.
What's your favorite movie?
First Blood.
First Blood.
You know First Blood?
What is it?
First Blood.
First Blood? Oh, I've never seen it.
Never seen that? Amazing.
Whenever I got sick, I used to watch the movie.
Oh, it's Rambo.
Rambo, Rambo.
And I would feel normal.
After I finished the movie, I would feel normal.
You don't believe this.
It's like the adrenaline pumps and stuff.
Absolutely.
That's a pretty cool movie.
Okay.
I've got a, and I apologize that we did get a little
debating.
I wasn't anticipating that, but I had
a little bit of an enjoyable time.
It did go against the grain of what I normally do here
in Deep Drinks. I hope everyone, you know,
but I think we both had some,
I hope we both had some fun.
But the last question
that I wanted to post to you,
and this is the question I asked a lot of guests,
is what is the most plausibly,
take some time to answer it too,
what is the most plausibly true religion
that you don't believe in?
I don't believe in.
It's a hard one. It's good because
Atheists can answer it.
If you want me to do a long answer,
I'll probably answer that.
Yeah, go for it.
Can I give you a long answer?
The long answer being, the long answer being,
the religions of the world that we find today
were at some point
true.
Communicated by God.
Even Hinduism.
Hinduism in India was communicated by God.
The way does the Holy Scriptures
of the Hindus,
it advocates monotheism.
So if you study those scriptures,
you can find parallels
to the Quran, to the
Old Testament and to the Gospels.
You can find those parallels in those scriptures.
All religions once stood
communicated by God.
Even before God communicated to Abraham,
God was communicating
to different nations of the world.
So there's a history,
there's a legacy that God communicating
to different nations of the world.
And Abraham is the most
recent
in the turn of events.
Abraham is the most recent.
So there's a big history
beyond Abraham that God was
communicating to different nations of the world.
So all of the religions that we find today
have had some truth
in the beginning.
And from there on,
they have reduced.
Like we see Christianity today
with Trinitarian beliefs
or the Son of God beliefs.
You don't find them in the Gospels,
the Synoptic Gospels directly.
Not as much as you would want
that to be sounding
like how Paul would advocate it.
But
they reduce over a period of time.
And
that's because of human activity.
You know what I mean? And God has to
go through it again.
And that's what God did again and again.
Even within
Abrahamic
family,
God did that
repetitively so many times.
Prophet after prophet,
just continued.
So
it's only so much you can help people, man.
People want to follow the bias
and
people want to chase
their interests,
like material interests.
So from there on,
things roll down.
They go downhill, right?
Because people are chasing material interests
and they're
infringing on others' rights.
So it goes downhill from there on.
So this happens every time.
And that's when you see
God ends up sending a prophet
like Jesus who says,
the birds have nest, the foxes
have den, the son of man
has nowhere to lay his head.
And that's a profound teaching that Jesus
gave. I mean, why would
a messenger of God come to earth and suffer
like that without even having a pillow
to sleep?
That is to show
how much
humanity needs to be.
How much humanity is missing
within human beings.
You know, the need to do more
to deliver
humanness to humanity.
There's so much need.
That's demonstrated clearly
when Jesus said to his disciples,
sit down and I'm washing your feet.
And they said, master,
we are afraid what you're doing to us.
We will do it to you. And Jesus said,
God has told me
to wash your feet and I've got no choice.
You better sit up.
You better sit down and I'm washing it.
You know what was the teaching
behind it? He could have just said,
my disciples,
go and serve people.
Easy done, right?
But no, God
said him, demonstrate to them.
Sit down
and wash their feet.
That's the impetus
God just delivered
to the believers.
He said, this is what
is expected out of you.
If you serve humanity in this way,
God is happy with you.
So,
I mean, you see where God
is coming from and what God
wants to see among human beings, right?
He wants to see justice, fairness
and compassion, right?
But people so much follow the
desires today.
The whole America,
the trend has changed.
It's prosperous faith.
The more prosperous you are,
the more you begin to think God
is on your side.
The more stricken
in poverty you are, you begin to think
you're a sinful person
and God is not on your side.
So, the mindset has changed.
The trend has changed.
It's because people have been
brainwashed into
the pursuit of material and
they think that is the ultimate success.
If you succeed,
God is with you and stuff like that.
I don't understand how this shift
has really taken place in Christianity
but to my amazement,
it has taken deep roots
and
they kind of simply...
So, if you had to
choose a religion that was kicking around today,
that was the most plausibly true
that you don't believe in.
What would you go for?
I don't believe in...
I don't believe in
I don't believe in several people
who practice their religion
in a false way. So, for example,
according to the Quran,
according to the Quran, Jews today
can have salvation.
Christians today will have
salvation. Muslims today will have
salvation. Hindus today will have
salvation provided
they don't associate
a demigod
they don't speak falsehood
they don't cheat
or transgress or curb
justice.
If people
remain
dedicated to one God, monotheism
and did the right thing, they will have
salvation regardless of where they belong.
Whether they belong in Islam
or Christianity, Judaism, Hinduism.
The condition is
you got to be a monotheist
and you got to be
moving to a kind enterprise.
As long as you're doing kind stuff
to people, God is happy
with you.
Okay, so
what religion would it be?
If you had to choose one that was the most plausible...
I just told you, you can be a Christian and still go to heaven.
So it would be Christianity?
What's the most plausibly true religion
that you don't believe in?
I don't believe in?
The question is a bit complex.
You're making the question a bit
more complex.
What I'm asking for is
if you didn't believe in Islam,
what would be your second choice of the most
likely
true religion?
Okay, if I did not believe in Islam?
Yeah, so what's the most...
Other than Islam?
Obviously Christianity would be the religion.
Okay, cool.
That's interesting.
A lot of people choose Buddhism, actually.
Christians
and
atheists.
I've seen that happen a lot in Australia.
People have gravitated towards
Buddhism.
Maybe for reasons that they don't want
to get told by a scripture,
because they've got
bugged up by
the scripture being throttled
down their throats.
They want some relief
about scripture, probably.
It's also a bit of a cheat because there's no God
in Buddhism.
Basically, they don't want to get told.
They don't want to be abiding by set of rules
or creed or something like that.
They want to be absolutely feeling free.
That's a choice they have made.
I told you that the principles,
belief in one God,
subscribe to kind enterprise
and you're good to go to heaven.
Okay.
I appreciate you coming on, Masood.
Tell us a little bit about what people can expect
if they go and subscribe to your channel.
To be dead honest,
I don't know at the moment.
If they subscribe
and they create demands that
they want to see me
on my channel,
I'll be happy to do that.
If somebody wants to talk to me,
have discussions on my channel,
I'll be happy to conduct that.
All you have to do is contact me
and I'll be there.
We'll set it up and we'll have
sessions like this.
The bell section,
you can get the emails up there.
If you want
to have me come over
and we can continue our screaming first
on your home ground turf,
I would welcome that.
Again, I hope you know that
I'm not attacking you or anything
and I apologize.
Absolutely.
Okay.
Also, check out your books.
Guys, if you can
support us on Deep Drinks,
that would be absolutely awesome.
On Patreon, sorry.
Of course, you can join the channel.
That'll make things extra special.
Become a member.
Two days from now,
I'm going to be having
Hani, critical faculty on
who has debated you on
these topics.
We're going to be drinking
cranberry and vodka
and just talking religion,
science, philosophy.
We don't know where the conversation is going to go.
In fact, I'm going to probably remove the questioning
Islam part because I'm just going to leave it blank.
We've talked on the phone
and we're like, let's just
actually just pretend we're having a drink
and catching up.
That's going to be a great episode.
If people want to follow your work
on the Islamic scriptures,
dot com.
Thank you so much, Masood, for coming out.
The last thing I will mention
is we have the
Purity Culture panel coming up
and we're going to end on that
trailer. It's coming up in April.
I'm just finalizing some things now
before I get the panelists
announced. But thank you so much
guys for coming out. Appreciate you so much
for coming on Masood and
I'll talk to you later.
Thank you so much, David, and thank you guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
