From what I'd learnt in the church already that it was wrong, so I was feeling guilt and
shame.
I struggled with being in a relationship with God.
I remember just asking you bluntly one time because we'd always ask each other really
blunt, deep, personal questions and we could be open with each other about stuff and I
asked you, I was like, do you think that you've chosen to be gay or do you think you're just
gay?
I was stressed out and having a break because I'm trying to pray and ask God to take this
from me.
When you prayed, did you ever get any clear answers or instructions from God?
We were on a bus.
As you're sitting in the bus and you look up to the roof, they had banners of advertisements
and there was one there for HIV and it was about this guy and he's like, you know, Jack
never thought he was gay and then one night he went out drinking with the boys and then
he woke up and he had sex with them and now he has HIV.
Yeah, I was like, that really scared the hell out of me.
I was like, okay, so I drink, I lose my inhibitions, I have a one night stand, I'm going to get
AIDS and I'm dead.
So Colin, you're a gay man.
That's the rumor.
When you grew up as a Christian, well, you didn't grow up as Christian, did you?
No.
I grew up in the country, out of Mergan.
I guess in some ways we were a conservative family, but not religious conservative.
My mum went to church and we went to church sometimes to Sunday school, but my mum never
really made us endure church.
I think we went a couple of times, but it was never a religious thing, you know, like
a routine, but I definitely went to Sunday school.
And yeah, I just remember vaging out like most of the time and just colouring in.
That's all I really remember about Sunday school, colouring in and then asking questions
and you get, Jesus, that's right, this is a cake wall.
So you didn't really, you wouldn't really consider yourself like a, you really got involved
in Christianity further on down the track, didn't you?
Yeah.
When I was, I think, we moved to the coast when I was 17 and I had the option of completing
year 12 here, which at that stage I think was going to be like Coulomb High because
Sunshine Beach High didn't exist.
And I really was terrified of the idea of actually doing high school here.
I just, I just really didn't think I was going to fit in.
I was terrified of the idea of trying to fit in here.
So I chose just to try and go and get a job.
And then so like I fell into, I guess, like a social anxiety, like a social phobia of
sorts.
Like I didn't venture out, so I stayed home all the time.
And then eventually though I did get a job at Coles.
How old were you about at this time?
I still would have been about 17.
So at this stage, had you like well and truly discovered your attraction to dudes?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, there was, there was no doubt.
I actually, I do have a question that I wrote down, which was just a bit of humorous.
But on a scale from zero to Elton John, no, no, on a scale from zero to 100, how like
are you like, is it just like a, you know, it was never a stage or, you know, have you
been attracted to females or?
Not really.
It's hard because sometimes I feel like the lines blur between you want something so much
that you can almost convince yourself.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Like, but I don't think, like I am like 99% sure I was never attracted to a woman, not
sexually.
I've been attracted towards women emotionally, but you're like, as a person, you think you're
really beautiful.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like, and I love spending time with, with some women, but at the end of the day, I have,
I guess I had to realize that that's not a sexual thing.
You know, so that's not someone I'd want as a marriage partner, I guess, because there
are many facets to a relationship and sexuality, sex has got to be a big part of it.
Sexual attraction.
Yeah.
So.
Yeah.
I remember we were, I remember we're talking about, we're just driving together once and
we're talking about things that turn us on and sexual, you know, sexual stuff.
And I was talking about, I don't know why, I just brought up boobs, obviously, because
it's part of the conversation.
And you're like, and you said to me like, I don't know what to do, what do I do with
them?
Do I push them away or the way?
What do you do?
What do you do with them?
I'm like, well, you know, it's like, it's like an obstacle.
I'm not sure.
Like, don't get away.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Look, they're really kind of getting in my space.
Yeah.
They're like, yeah, it'd be like finding an extra tool in the toolbox.
I don't know what this does.
What am I supposed to do with this?
Yeah.
All the other tools I got work fine.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know.
It's just, it's just unnecessary.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So you're 16 and you're, you, you started working at Coles, 17.
17.
You started working at Coles and you, you knew you were gay at that stage.
Yeah.
Look, I knew way back from Mergin.
Like I had a, honestly, like I had an unusual infactuation with my grade five teacher.
Okay.
Like I was obsessed with him.
Yeah.
And you grew up like, what, when you were growing up, like it was still very taboo to be like
gay.
Right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like it was the, yeah.
I mean, it was the eighties.
And so we had the big AIDS gear going on.
Yeah.
And I used to be terrified of those.
I don't know if you ever saw them.
I think you might have seen them on maybe YouTube with the Grim Reaper bowling.
No.
Oh, they were.
I'm up in the video.
At first, only gays and IV drug users were being killed by AIDS.
But now we know every one of us could be devastated by it.
The fact is over 50,000 men, women and children now carry the AIDS virus.
But in three years, nearly 2000 of us will be dead.
Yeah.
They're infamous.
They used to terrify people.
Yeah.
The Grim Reaper was bowling and it was, and I had a whole bunch of people at the, at the,
where the pins would normally be.
And they'd be talking about like, you know, at this stage, you know, we don't know how
it's transmitted.
We don't, you know, it's, it's into, you know, it doesn't, it doesn't really have a, even
though I suppose I think they did sort of say that it was more prevalent in the gay
society with gay men, but it was taking out people left, right and centre.
So there was a real fear around it.
Yeah.
You know, and I think it was like almost people almost view that as like something
that would be a pandemic that would take out the population of the world.
Yeah.
But thankfully it never came to that.
Yeah.
So there was a lot of fear and I, I distinctly remember when I was about 17 or 18, we went,
I went to Melbourne with my mum and, and this is probably why to a certain degree I think
I may have abstained from alcohol growing up and was a bit afraid of it was we were on
a bus and there was a banner on the, as you're sitting in the bus and you look up to the roof
and they had banners of advertisements and there was one there for HIV and it was about
this guy and he's like, you know, Jack never thought he was gay.
And then one night he went out drinking with the boys and then he woke up and he had sex
with a man.
Now he has HIV.
Oh.
Yeah.
And I was like, that really scared the hell out of me.
I was like, okay, so I drink, I lose my inhibitions.
I have a one night stand.
I'm going to get AIDS and I'm dead.
And that rings a bell because when we would sometimes invite you out to have a couple
of drinks, you would, before you, you know, you have a couple of drinks now, but before
you say, oh, I'd get too touchy.
I'm saying, and we were always saying like, get touchy.
I wouldn't care.
As long as you don't run around molesting people, we're like, we're all four friends here.
Like, you know, we love you for who you are.
Yeah.
It's terrified of losing control and then having to pay for the price.
Yeah.
AIDS walks around the corner.
Yeah.
It's a death sentence.
Well, it was then.
Thank God it's not anymore.
But like, I mean, I knew from way back, Morgan, that I was gay when I was little.
I just didn't, wasn't interested in, well, not that that's necessarily a sign of being
gay, but I was more interested in, I think, I used to hang around with the girls.
And, you know, and I spent way too much time looking at the men's underwear section in
the Kmart catalogue.
I mean, I remember the Kmart catalogue used to come and I used to really embarrassing,
felt so guilty.
I'd take it into my room for use later that night.
But I was like, I was trying to hide that I took the Kmart catalogue.
I was like, my mum's not going to, now I think about it.
She probably would never even bat an eyelid the fact that I had my Kmart catalogue in
my room.
Yeah.
Probably thought, oh, he's looking at toys.
Yeah.
Nice.
So much shame.
Yes, I know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And you could never let it let on or that you were that way inclined.
Yeah.
It's interesting though, because it never became an issue at school.
But well, not amongst my friends.
There were, there was a group of kids, bullies at school that used to constantly say stuff
to me like, oh, you know, you're gay, aren't you?
You're a f***ing, you know, you're a homo and then yell it out and stuff.
And I just used to try and ignore it, but it used to get to me.
But otherwise, from besides that, it was never actually brought up amongst my circle of friends.
And, you know, I certainly didn't bring it up.
But I remember saying stupid, stupid things like we were talking about where we'd all
be in the year 2000.
That's 21 years ago.
But, you know, and I'd be like, oh, I hope I got a great job and I'm married with kids.
And I'm thinking, I don't, I said it, but I don't think I really even, I don't think
I even really wanted it back then.
Yeah.
Or if I did, it was definitely, it would have been with a guy.
Yeah.
Not that such a thing even existed.
Yeah.
Well, when did same sex marriage get legalized in Australia?
It was 2018.
Yeah.
It wasn't that long ago.
Yeah.
But yeah, it was almost 20 years later.
I mean, in a way, we've come quite far then.
But at the same time, it feels like not far enough or not quick enough.
Yeah.
As long as we don't go backwards.
Yeah, exactly.
But, um, well, so you, you, you get, you, you go to, you sell a job at Coles and this
is your kind of journey to becoming a Christian, isn't it?
Yes.
I was very much in my shell when I started at Coles and my self esteem had taken a huge
hit and I didn't have any friends.
And then a lot of my boss at the time and a lot of people on the checkouts where I was
on the service department were Christians and went to one of the local churches and
they were like constantly like, oh, you know, you should come to church or come to youth
group.
Eventually I gave in and I went and I guess I found a place where I felt I belonged and
then I became a Christian.
And then I, I, um, I started going to church and you know, it's was it for you becoming
a Christian?
Was it a, did you have like some sort of a spiritual experience or was it more of a slow
process?
Well, I made the decision.
Yeah.
You know, you make a decision.
Yeah.
Um, that certainly wasn't an emotional one.
Yeah.
Um, I can actually still remember thinking actually at the time, well, he seems to work for these
people.
So I'll.
Oh, like God works for these people.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, and then so it was more of a journey after that.
Yeah.
You know, developing a faith.
Yeah.
And you, you eventually went on to do ministry work.
Um, uh, um, what's it called where you'd go build orphanages and you'd preach the word
to other, uh, with YWAM, YWAM.
Yeah.
Um, yeah, that was, uh, an interesting, um, interesting time.
But it's like when I, when I first come a Christian, it's interesting because like honestly
the, for me being feeling like I was gay, didn't actually even, wasn't even a blip on
my radar for like the first year.
Yeah.
Um, I don't know whether you'd call it a grace period or a denial period or.
But it's,
So did you, did you feel gay?
Like when you say it's not a blip in the rail, did you just not even consider the, consider
that maybe Christianity, the Christianity that you were getting involved with had ideas
against your sexuality?
Yeah.
I think maybe there was partly that and partly, and then also partly because I just had this
huge now circle of friends, I guess there was a part of me that didn't, that, that,
that desire to have in, you know, human connection was being met in another way.
So maybe that the desire to be in a partnership with someone, uh, it wasn't as great anymore.
Yeah.
It was being those needs to a certain degree of being met.
Yeah.
But you never, you, would you, at those times, did you ever consider yourself like, Oh, I'm
not gay anymore or anything?
Or is just not something that you thought of.
No, it just didn't even, just didn't even think about it.
Yeah.
It was not a thing that, yeah.
And it wasn't till I, I suppose maybe through, um, yeah, I don't know, just eventually it
became an issue.
I don't remember when or why might have been through a Bible study or God knows what, but
it eventually, it started to become an issue.
Yeah.
And when you say an issue, do you, do you mean that, um, did you start to feel guilt or
more, uh, shame or did you start, did you, did you ever, do you know, do you have it
in like an experience when you kind of realized that, oh no, I might be in trouble here?
Yeah.
Like I think, um, I was starting to really, um, you know, as a normal red blooded male,
I was starting to feel, um, attracted to the past.
Oh God.
No.
Uh, no, no.
I was just feeling urges and I knew from what I'd learned in the church already that it
was wrong.
Okay.
So I was feeling guilt and shame and I always struggled with, um, I struggled with being
in a relationship with, with God and being gay.
I, I felt like God can't seriously, it won't take me seriously or won't listen to me in
prayer if, if I'm sinning.
And then, you know, there would be, so shame and guilt was, it was a big thing.
And, um, I, I went to see, I've seen so many Christian counselors and pastors since I know
that it's, uh, and I think probably out of the, what, 10 or 12 that I've seen, I think
only one's ever handled it, what I would say would be correctly.
Yeah.
Um, I remember, what did that, what did that person do that was different to everyone else?
Uh, I think this person, was it a counselor or was it a counselor?
No, no, these were all Christian counselors.
Okay.
Um, that I'm talking about now.
Well, this one in particular was like, while they acknowledged that it was not right,
there wasn't an all, there wasn't, uh, uh, no, an oppression or a doom that came from
it.
Okay.
You know what it, you know what I mean?
It's like, um, I've heard some Christians, uh, appeal to the idea of as a thought in
your side, like something that you're inflicted with.
Yeah.
Afflicted with, but, and, you know, yeah, but then, you know, people say, Oh, that's
not what they're talking about when they talk.
So it's like, you know, it's all got to do with, you know, you, you're never going to
find the evidence that you need to prove something.
I've worked that out for myself up so much so many times I've looked in the Bible for
instances where God says, Oh, you know, it's okay to do this, or it's not okay to do that.
And it's, it's just so up for interpretation and translation.
Um, do you, do you think, um, do you think if God had, um, you know, if God had, um,
God, cause it's quite interesting and we'll get back to a bit more of your story, but
I just want to touch on this for a second.
Um, it seems interesting that, you know, Paul especially talks about homosexuality and
you mentioned to me that, um, I think it was, you know, someone mentioned that he might
have even made up the word that he used there because it's not really a known word and we've
translated as homosexuality.
Um, and he said a lot of the same things Jesus did about, you know, what, you know, homosexuals
were not XXX, whatever XXX, no pun.
And, um, but it was interesting as Jesus never is recorded to have talked about homosexuality.
And, um, I always find that, found that really interesting and it's like, if God had a specific
message for us, um, why is there any ambiguity, like, you know, I mean, do you ever, did you
ever wonder about why there'd be any ambiguity of something that could be so important?
So if one, you know, if, if some people are interpreting it to be life or death, uh, like
a sin, horrible sin and some people are just like the worst, yeah, yeah, the worst of sins.
Um, uh, and other people are just, you know, don't see a problem that at all.
Why?
Sure.
There shouldn't, if it just seems strange that there's a little bit of ambiguity there.
Did you ever ponder that or yeah, I always wish that it was a lot more black and like,
yeah, not black and white.
I always have wished that there was no ambiguity.
Yeah.
I'd almost wish that Jesus had said something about it, even if it was like, no, you know,
yes or no, just one or the other, because then you would know, okay, I know now.
Yeah.
But there's just, and then there's so many voices out there saying, oh, well, the scripture
actually means this or the scripture actually means that.
And so, you know, and some of them you look at and you go, well, I appreciate what you're
trying to do, but I feel like you're grasping at straws there or, and this one that's like,
well, you're totally disregarding, you know, for those that, that won't, a lot of the mainstream
church won't even stop to even consider minor, uh, mistranslations or, um, you know, misinterpretations
because the word's got to be infallible.
Yeah.
And, you know, so it's like, it's just blind, no.
Yeah.
You know, I produced a video on that actually, where I showed that it's almost impossible
for you to hold the perspective that it's infallible.
The Bible is amazing for so many reasons.
But to say that, you know, that Jesus was crucified twice because you have to take the
count of John with the account of another gospel, which say that he was born or he was
crucified two separate days is, you know, like, how, how, how do that, like, how, how
far do you go with, with how fundamental you get that?
Yeah.
So I know that because we're close friends and we met in ministry college.
Well, geez, that was a long time ago.
And all those people are now powering on for God.
Is anyone from the power, wait, is anyone from ministry college?
Do you want to write like in the Lord?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know.
I think the Bible talks about us being seed on the part.
But so you tried, I know you tried a deliverance ministry.
And I went to the same, same people just.
That's right.
I went for more of a mention there.
I'll blur it.
You know, I went for more of a general deliverance.
Like I wanted like the general demons to get out of me, but you wanted like.
I had very specific.
Yeah. You had specific demons.
You wanted to be saved from, which was the worst of them.
We didn't believe we, as far as I remember,
we didn't believe that we could be possessed by demons because we believe
we're filled with the Holy Spirit, but we believe that we could be oppressed.
Meaning it was almost like a demon sitting on your head is the idea.
And and a lot of people believe that homosexuality is like that.
Yeah. Well, I believe for a long time, I was afraid that I was possessed.
Yeah.
You know, I went through.
Well, actual, like deliverance, like
going back to the early when I was in the couple of years after I joined the church,
there was a move in the church where this guy was casting out demons
out of people down the front of the church and.
Demons. Yes.
Trash mugs. Yeah.
And I went down and got prayed for.
And of course, you know, I was terrified that I was going to black out
and not remember, and as you know, like the spinning and the screaming.
And there was none of that.
I didn't feel anything.
And, you know, there was, of course, that whole sentiment, well, you're not ready.
Yeah. You've got to be able to.
You've got to want it to leave.
And so, well, I wouldn't be here.
Yeah. Yeah. That was my biggest thing.
Yeah. I have been told that so many times as a Christian who was gay
and when nothing happened, well, you're still holding on to it.
Because they people would pray for me like, yeah, well, as long as you're still
wanting it, it'll always be there.
And I explained them, but I don't want it.
I'm praying.
So that's that seems like a bit of an oxymoron or what I don't know what
the word is, maybe that's the wrong sentence.
But it's like, you won't want it when you won't want it.
How do you? Yeah, it'll go.
If you don't want it anymore, you won't want it.
Yeah. Like, OK. Yeah.
Yeah. So you're still holding on to it inside.
I'm like, well, I don't know where that bit is because I can guarantee you.
I've been praying like crazy, crying and and and and and almost.
You know, just.
Almost stressed, stressed out and having a break, you know,
because I'm trying to pray and ask God to take this from me.
So you'd see, you'd seek after God.
When you prayed, did you ever get any clear answers
or instructions from God?
Or did you ever feel like you had a breakthrough or anything like that?
No. No, not even like temporarily or.
No, I have to admit, though, that.
The numerous amount of times that I'd always prayed about it.
I felt like God was never really so that interested in it.
OK, I always felt like I was the one that was more interested in.
Yeah. Dealing with this.
Yeah, it's like, it's like, is it was it almost like
praying that God turns your hair blonde or something?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's just like, you know, if God's there, he's like, what?
Yeah, yeah. OK. So yeah.
That's interesting. That's an interesting perspective
because I remember further on down the track, we used to catch up for coffee
quite a lot and and I remember just asking you bluntly one time
because we'd always ask each other really blunt, deep, personal questions
and we could be open with each other about stuff.
And I asked you, I was like, do you think that you've chosen to be gay?
Or do you think you're just gay?
And I was like, just be honest.
And then you thought about and you're like, I think I'm just gay.
I think I'm just attracted to men.
Like I don't know who would choose to be gay.
Yeah, well, I mean, it's a different story.
I mean, I don't think people can choose to be.
I don't think someone can choose to be gay.
I think there's got to be something there to begin with.
Yeah, we just before I left, my wife was watching a show
where there was a gay couple in the show and I and then he was coming to this.
I made a little joke as I left.
I was like, I'll be so disappointed if my son was straight.
It's almost flipped like that, isn't it?
It is. And that's I guess the sign of the times in that people are trying to embrace
people who have been so picked on and misunderstood for so long.
And so people are almost overcompetentating when really it shouldn't even be
like I talk to people who have never had these.
They never saw it as a bad thing.
Like I've spoken to friends who I said, oh, so they said, oh, I'm attracted
to fanboys or whatever.
And I said, oh, oh, so so you are, but you can see yourself bisexual or pansexual.
And they go, what's pansexual?
And I said, oh, someone who finds themselves attracted to just just people
in general, not necessarily one or the other.
It's kind of similar to bisexual as far as I know, I'm probably wrong.
And they said, yeah, yeah, I'm that.
I went, oh, OK, cool.
And we just continue on with the conversation.
And it was it was it was like, it was like, do you like mint ice cream?
And it's like, yeah, I do.
Oh, OK, cool.
It was it was so it was so nothing.
They didn't even consider this kind of generation, the new generation,
which is a nice thing.
Yeah, it is good. It is.
It's good.
So did you so you tried the conversion therapy or pray the gateway kind of stuff?
I'm probably not like you never went to the camp.
I never got I never got sent to the camp.
That would have been so cool.
It was in the striped pajamas.
I was like stuck in a stuck in a dorm with 20 others hot, sweaty guys.
I don't know who I've thought the gay camp was a great idea.
The communal showers like it just really is not helping me.
All right. But damn, I had a good weekend.
My my it's funny.
It's funny to say one of my relatives said that back in the day in 70s
or maybe the 60s in the football clubs in Melbourne.
I don't know if that's true.
This is this could be one of the stories that you saw strip off,
grab each other's dicks, run around in a circle, first one to get a bone
and was gay to bash him.
Oh, my God.
And I just can't think more of a stupid like ideologically.
Smooth brain thing like it's just stupid, right?
Like it could have been.
I don't know if that was a joke or I don't know if that's something
that actually happened.
But like there are some really stupid ideas out there about, you know,
about this stuff back in the day.
And it's really sad.
But yeah, it's kind of like who's gay then?
The one who's gone around and grabbing the other one who's got a bone of it.
Exactly. But it's also you can get a boner from stimulation of any sort.
So it's like it doesn't.
I don't know. Yeah.
It's amazing. It's amazing.
The human race is truly amazing.
Like it's amazing is a good word to use there.
Like amazing in like we are so dumb.
Yeah. And so smart at the same time.
So you went through you went through kind of conversion,
deliverance stuff and you never really found that it worked.
Well, I know the first I think the first person I spoke to.
About it was actually the first person I spoke to about it was at our church.
We had a pastor at the time that stepped down and left.
So we had an infant pastor come.
And I and I think there was a bit of a sense of a bit more of security
being able to go to someone I didn't have any no idea who he was.
And he'd be gone in about three months.
Yeah. So I made an appointment to go and see him.
And I told him, you know, like with a heavy heart, a shame.
And and he's like, OK, yep.
Well, it's just a choice.
And I'm like, I'm sorry.
He's like, well, because I wanted some kind of answer as to how to change it.
Or he's he was the pastor, right?
The head pastor.
Well, he was in yeah, inch and yeah.
And he's like, well, yeah, there's nothing, you know, it's just you make a choice.
Do you want to live that way or not?
I was like, well, that's very informative.
Thank you. Yeah.
There was no.
How old were you at this time?
I'm maybe 18 or 19. OK.
Maybe 19. And there was there was no help.
Or that was it. That was the end of the appointment.
And then.
And then I started seeing a counselor in the church.
And and this person was just absolutely useless.
Like he could have done more damage.
You know, like he I said to him like, I remember the first time I saw him.
And I just poured out my heart and what I was struggling with and stuff.
And I said to him, but don't worry, I'll never act on it because like, you know,
I'll I'll I'll kill myself before I do anything, you know, doing the gay.
And he's like, oh, that's good.
That's good that you've made that decision now.
And sorry that it's that's horrible.
So you said, I'll kill myself before I act out as a homosexual.
Yeah. Yeah. And he said, good.
That's good. It's good that you've made that decision.
Wow. Yeah.
And I remember I remember being taken back by that then.
And I was like, well, that's not the answer.
I was like, that's really not what I was expecting.
I was like, yeah, you know, wow.
I was I even then I was expecting him to go look.
Well, let's don't kill yourself.
Yeah, don't kill yourself. Don't don't think like that.
Yeah. But there was like, oh, that's good that you've made that decision.
I'm thinking not sure that's what's supposed to be said.
But anyway, we'll keep going.
I can't.
So.
So throughout like, so that's incredible.
I'm taken back by that.
And at this stage, you hadn't like.
I don't mean being with a man like you weren't
hooking up with people or anything like that. No.
OK. And were you were you interested in that?
I mean, besides like the obviously, you know, we're men.
Well, I guess anyone, anyone in sexual
wants to either put their thing in things or have their thing
have someone put their thing in their thing or whatever, you know,
people people want to do that stuff.
But you never act.
Do you ever have like?
Do you ever want to act on that?
Or did you ever go and act on that?
I never acted on it, but I wanted to. Yeah.
But it was more like I didn't.
I think even then I wanted it was more.
I've always been a guy that wanted more of the relationship.
Yeah. You know, sex in a relationship than just sex.
So I know we're like when we went out trawling or cruising or.
Yeah.
But that's actually back to the conversation we're having in the car.
And I was talking about the boobs and stuff.
We talked about the same thing.
We talked about threesomes and you said you'd never you've never even
you don't find any interest in the idea because for you,
it's about making love and about the connection you have with that person.
Yeah, I don't understand the concept of.
Yeah, introduced a third person into that.
Yeah, which is that seems like a break of trust to me.
But I mean, it's just that's just you.
Yeah, that's my personal. Yeah. Yeah.
Everyone, everyone's different.
But I found it really interesting because a lot of a lot of the time
people have this perspective that, you know, the homosexual lifestyle
entails just debauchery.
Yeah. And I believed that for a long time until you met my friend, Hank.
Yeah. And then I realized, no, straight people are gross.
No, I do remember you actually, Hank, one of our good friends, Hank,
he came over and he was telling his talent, his wild party day stories and stuff.
Hilarious, great stories, absolutely fantastic stories.
And but but you left there thinking, wow, like I didn't want to I would never
do any of that stuff like I'm not I didn't he's not sick either.
But, you know, you know, I just didn't think anyone like, I don't know.
I just had always sort of thought that, you know, gay people
were like the most debauchers and the most sinful and that's something
that they would do and and then to hear that a straight person's done that.
And we're just like, OK, well, maybe I've been maybe I've been given the wrong
leaflets. I mean, Hank, Hank's had a fulfilling, amazing life.
He's had some experience.
He could write books and he really could have amazing stories.
And and and it's just, you know, he's a great guy.
And but I find that a lot, a lot of the time, actually, a lot of people,
a lot of the typical, like, you know, bros that you meet, they have similar stories.
It's, you know, going out, partying, hooking up random people, strangers or,
you know, and I won't go into more detail when you get the idea.
Yeah. So eventually, like I wanted to ask, like, did your
did you ever get to a really dark place in your
in your I mean, you mentioned that you said you'd you'd try and kill yourself
before you even went out.
Did you ever get to a dark place where you thought that might be your only option?
Yeah. Yeah, there have been a couple of times where I've.
Where I've.
Well, you've had been so desperate or yeah, yeah, so desperate for a way out.
And that things weren't going to get better. Yeah.
That I was never going to be straight. Yeah.
And therefore, I was never going to be acceptable to God. Yeah.
And, you know, so it's better just to end it all now.
And just to keep going on with this constant battle. Yeah.
Yeah. You know, there was a time where I held some tablets in my hand.
And there was another time where I.
Really sort of wanted to swerve into a light bowl and.
But, you know, both times never eventuated because.
Not because I was strong, not because I felt God calling me otherwise or anything.
It was mainly because my cousin had committed suicide
and I saw how it destroyed the family and I just couldn't do that to my mom and dad.
Yeah, that's that's the only reason I just didn't want to do that to another human being. Wow.
So.
Otherwise, yeah, I thought about it.
Wow, it's so sorry you had to go through that such darkness.
You know, and it's it's funny because you look back now
and if you could just grab yourself and shake yourself and tell yourself
it's going to get better, you know, it's.
It's a yeah, it's dark, dark stuff.
Um, so eventually you decided to come out, though.
Yes, I can't remember what led up to it.
I mean, I know it'd been a long time and I remember you're wearing these
like little pink booty pants and oh, yeah, yeah, and my my sparkly shirt.
No, we, um, uh, we were having a lot of deep conversations,
having coffee around the same sex marriage, marriage stuff.
And, um, I remember you mentioning that you felt somewhat respond
like you, you were happy to just stay in the closet.
I remember this took me from wrong, but you felt responsibility
for people who may be coming, people who may be closeted,
who may be coming up after you and you believe they should have
lived their best life and come out of the closet.
And when you say come out of the closet, it doesn't mean
you're going to be like, you know, all of a sudden you're just going
out banging everyone.
You just meant as far as I can understand, you just meant just
being honest with people around being honest.
So I'm attracted to, yeah, I mean, even if you may have someone
in the church that's gay and they and themselves might not feel comfortable
with ever being in a relationship, but I think I still believe they
should be able to be honest with who, with who they are.
Yeah, you know, not have to pretend in conversations.
Oh, yes, she's attractive.
Oh, yes, I'm looking at talking to girls and, you know, it's just
because you're not being who you are.
Yeah.
And so do you think that was part of the process and also the same sex
marriage conversation Australia?
Do you think that, or do you have a particular moment when you decided
to come out of the closet or to, because a couple of your close friends knew
that it was always from the perspective that, well, I remember when you first
told me you wrote on a piece of paper to Danny and you said, I used to be gay.
That was the phraseology used.
And I think you're almost trying to test the waters because if we, yeah,
that's definitely testing the waters because if you, because if we rejected
you, like if we didn't, you know, you're only rejecting a version of me,
that doesn't exist anymore.
Yeah, yeah, but, but truly you were still gay and people knew you were still
gay, but, or I think you used to use the term.
I have, I have gay tendencies.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I mean, which is all just, yeah, either I used to say either I used to
be gay or I have gay tendencies or, you know, but I always, I know there
always be that disclaimer, but I never act on it.
Yeah.
And it's just like a person should never have to put a disclaimer
against who they are, their identity, that it's, it's demeaning and it's
discouraging and it's, and it's heartbreaking.
Yeah.
And that is, again, that's all the shame.
You know, there's a whole lot of shame around being gay in the church.
And that's, that's really sad.
I mean, I, I recently had someone in the church that is of high status.
Um, and they were saying that, you know, the hardest thing for them to try
and figure out as a church is their response to gay people.
Um, because you've got one extreme of churches, which what, what he believes
is an extreme is where they're allowed to come into the church and they're
just accepted as any other couple, you know, you're married, you're married.
It's great.
You can be in ministry.
That's fantastic.
That's awesome.
That's the, that's one extreme.
Is it to him?
And then the, the extreme, which he said, he feels like there's, there's evidence
for in the Bible, and that is that they meant to be cast out, you know,
because of the, of the, of the brotherly, a moral brother, you know, and I could
tell just from the way he was saying was he felt like that is what they're meant
to do, but you can't really do that in today's society.
Right.
So it's like, did, did these people though, what always gets me is, um, I'm
sure they know that gluttony is a sin, right?
I don't know any Christian that has a healthy BMI.
I mean, everyone over eats these days, they overindulge in everything.
They drive her in her flashy cars.
They, they, they literally a gluttonous towards, um, or material material,
like there's a whole Instagram page called preachers and sneakers with all
these preachers wearing $1,200 sneakers and stuff, which is, you know,
$3,000, it's, it's very materialistic, gluttonous, um, you know, me, me, me.
I want these things, um, worldly, um, the Bible says friends of the world
means your enemies to God, you know, um, friendship with the world is, uh,
enemies to God, something along those lines.
Well, are you telling me the people who would kick out the gay to leave their
church would say the same thing to someone who orders two burgers at the
cafe after church?
Oh, excuse me.
What are you doing with two burgers?
Get out of like, you know, it's, it, to me, it just reeks of hypocrisy.
If you want to be consistent, be consistent, but be consistent.
Lane, like it's, uh, I think that's what bothers a lot of people.
Is it just, um, it just seems, or, you know, you got passes on their fifth
Warsaw, you know, like, um, and, you know, and then they're, they're arguing
against the sanctity of marriage being broken by homosexuality.
And it's, yeah, it just seems, um, unfair, you know, obviously I haven't
been back to church in a while, right.
Um, but that's, you're, you're mainly, you're mainly busy at the moment.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I do want to go back, but I've never been a, someone who wanted to go to a gay
church.
I know that we've talked about that before, about going down to Brisbane.
I don't, I don't feel like gay people should have to have their own church.
Yeah.
I kind of feel like that's, that's a step in the wrong direction.
It's, it's fine for people who, who want that, but for you, it's not something
that.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Like I, it's, it's great if people want it, but I feel like it shouldn't
have to exist.
You know what I mean?
People who are gay should be able to find a church, a church where anyone can go.
But I know, I feel like I know enough about Christianity to know that, um,
positions itself as a religion of grace and love or some, you know, or if I, if
I accept you in your lifestyle, how is that loving?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So what?
Yeah.
That's a good one.
I mean, it makes sense logically, but then at the same, like at the same time, I
just wish they would apply it consistently across all of the board.
The, um, so there's one more section that I did have for this interview.
Well, actually two, but the last part's a bit, a bit separate.
But, um, so I do want to talk about when you actually made the leap and when
you became living as a, as a gay dude, as a raging homosexual, as a homosexual.
And, um, because I remember, um, there was some really interesting and funny
moments, probably heartbreaking for you as well as funny.
They're funny to me, um, that heartbreaking to you.
No, they were, they were funny all around, especially if you look back to them,
where you were trying to navigate relationships.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, but, um, but I mean, you know, what, what, uh, like, uh, you know, most people
would learn in primary school, mid school or high school.
You were learning at 40, something years old, you know, like,
and so like you're having, you know, you're meeting people, um, online and stuff.
And, um, and I remember one time, uh, you, you were saying like, oh, I hope
it's okay to say, but you were saying, uh, I'll cut it out if it's not, but you
were saying like, um, this is confusing.
I said hello to this person and I wrote in 6,000 words about, um, who I am as a
person and, and they haven't responded or they responded really short.
And I'm like, wow, like, and I'm like, and I had to explain to you.
I was like, well, imagine going into a, you know, a cafe and you sit down with
someone and then, you know, you meet, you're meeting Ben or you're meeting John
or someone and John's like, my mother just died and we're like, and just say,
you know, whoa, whoa, whoa, can we, can we just talk about our favorite movies
first and, uh, but I remember.
In my mind though, I'm, I'm putting all my cars down on the table and go, okay,
look here, I mean, I want a serious relationship.
And so here you look at this and look at this and then read this quickly,
reject me or sign here, initial there.
And if you agree to, you know, you're okay for this, then let's move forward.
Yeah.
I mean, of course I can see now that it's, that's not how the real world works.
And yeah, I know you're probably right.
You do learn that stuff growing up.
Yeah.
Um, but I certainly never did.
And, and you, you had a lot of catching up to do and you said, you said, like,
I want to get married now.
Like I want to, like, I want to, you know, I've, I've seen so much my life, like
hidden that you just want to, you want to be in a happy, loving relationship and
stuff.
And, um, and there is that, um, I don't have anxiety about it now, but there was
a lot of anxiety when I first came out about the fact that I came out so late
and I'm running out of time.
I need, you know, if I want to end up at this, you know, at B happily married
in a great relationship, happily married in a house or whatever, you know, I've
run out of time, I've got to get there now.
And, uh, and then that, of course, that adds pressure to you.
And then the way you interact with everyone just comes off as desperate.
Yeah.
And then it's interesting though, cause, um, at the same time, you're
complaining about how many old guys there were on all these websites and
you're like, Oh, cause there's only my age that are all, you know, 85 years
old and I'm like, you're not going to run out of people looking for
relationships, I think.
Yeah.
But, um, it's actually cool too.
Cause you're in a couple of weeks, you're heading over to, uh, America to, um, meet
your long, long term, I guess, um, long distance, uh, partner for the first time.
I don't know if he'd appreciate being called partner.
Well, love interest.
I'll call him my partner.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, yeah.
Marcus, um, he lives in West Virginia and we've been talking for
this February, it'll be two years.
So I probably would have gone over, you know, a lot sooner, but COVID hit.
And, you know, while it's, it's, it's been really sucky in many ways, it's
probably be probably been a blessing in disguise because it's really forced us
to get to know each other, um, in every possible way that we can, um, minus physical.
Yeah.
And, you know, cause it is a tendency for people to move, I think, into the
physical too quickly.
Yep.
And so not being able to do that, you know, we've explored every other facet
of each other's existence, you know, mentally, spiritually, um, you know,
even philosophically, we've talked about stuff.
So it's been very interesting.
Yeah.
Do you have, um, do you, uh, do you have like a, like, what are you going to do
when you first see him?
I, are you visioning a big hug or, you know?
Hugging them, maybe a kiss, but like, it's, you know, it's, I kind of feel a bit
weird because I kind of feel like it's America.
So I'm a little bit, yeah, yeah.
Exitant.
Yeah.
I mean, is West Virginia a, uh, it's, it's a red state.
Okay.
Uh, so it's more Republican.
So it's not San Fran.
It's not San Fran.
Okay.
Um, it's definitely like, uh, ultra conservative and we've discussed it and
he's like, you know, we don't hold hands or we don't kiss in public.
And yeah, yeah, yeah.
Um, would that be the same for the visible?
Couples, I imagine, right?
Or is it?
No, no, I'm sure it's perfectly fine to straight people.
Oh, okay.
Woo, America.
Yeah.
Uh, it's interesting.
I just, that's the same with everyone, I guess.
You have more conservative areas and more.
Yeah.
But it's interesting because I looked at smart traveler, uh, the government
website, where it talks about what to, um, you know, watch out for.
Do they have like a, like a gay map or it's like, no, but they do actually have a
warning that other says, be warned that, uh, more or less, you know, that.
Um, LGBTQ is not necessarily a, um, a safe place in the US all throughout the US.
Oh, okay.
And I was just like, wow.
Wow.
I never thought that I'd ever see that on a.
Yeah.
On a, on the US.
Like I mean, it's nice that the government at least acknowledges that they're
like, they're like coming to bat for you, you know, like the, the, that's, um, but
yeah, it shows that we've got a long way to go as a society.
Yeah.
And, and these conversations is what I hope, um, conversations like this,
hope where we, I can, we can learn different people's perspectives is what
I hope can, uh, can help that process along.
My, my, well, I guess the part of the question though is now that you're going
overseas and stuff, besides all the stress of getting all your tests and stuff
and, and finishing up with COVID tests, by the way, and I'm going to have to
bleep that word.
Um, no, COVID, maybe hard to know YouTube.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Cause they're not liking this information and stuff.
Okay.
I think it's just a whole drag, to be honest.
But, um, yeah, all the tests, yeah, yeah, not, not sexual.
That's what I'll get at.
I don't like HIV or anything.
Okay.
So just normal tests.
So would you compare yourself to like when some of the, the, you know, moments
in your, your belief system were conflicting with your identity?
Would you say you're happier now?
Or would you say coming out of the closet has made you happier or more fulfilled?
I think it's definitely made me happier.
And, uh, I don't think it's made me more fulfilled because I don't, I kind of
feel like fulfillment comes from something you, you do.
Uh, you know what I mean?
Like I ha, I'm happier because I am just who I am and I've admitted to who I am.
And I'm living that truth.
You know, I suppose I'll probably feel more fulfilled.
Maybe if, if I find someone and I settle down, you know, that's a bit more
fulfillment, definitely happier.
I, I, I, there's still a lot of internal conflict with the fact that, um, I think
with my faith and where I stand on my faith, has, has your religious beliefs
or, or your spiritual beliefs changed at all throughout the process?
That's a very good question.
I, I, my, my faith is, it's definitely adapted or evolved or whatever you want to
call it.
Um, I have a very bad taste left in my mouth from the church.
I, I, I don't have a great deal of love and respect for the church.
Um, my faith, I still believe in, in, in God.
I still believe, I think, you know, in Jesus, I still believe in, in, um, but
I don't know as what that looks like, like, uh, I don't necessarily definitely
don't believe that, uh, the written word that we have is infallible.
I believe the word of God is infallible, but whether or not we have that word or
not is, is a different story.
That's an interesting way of putting it.
It's, it's just constantly evolving.
I think.
Yeah.
I think it does for, for everyone.
It's just maybe for you, it's been a lot more at the forefront of your mind.
I think people's faiths change throughout their whole life.
Before we, uh, end this podcast, I have some audience questions.
Oh God.
Yeah.
So, um, some of the audiences of this channel and some, uh, friends of mine
that are new, uh, are interested in this kind of subject to have a bunch
of questions for you.
So are you ready to answer them?
Maybe.
How long is your, no, I'm kidding.
Okay.
Um, so, um, I got, I got, uh, three, three kind of categories of questions.
So one is about the church, which is what people interested in.
One is more personal for you and one is advice.
And that's where we'll kind of end on.
Um, so some of the church questions.
So do you feel that some churches and ministries have weaponized guilt?
Yes.
Definitely.
Like, okay.
Weaponized or have an extreme lack of understanding of how detrimental and
damaging guilt can be.
Like I remember being taught when I was in the church, that the only way I would
ever overcome another thing, uh, another way that I'd only ever be able to move
past my sin as in, you know, have entertaining thoughts about homosexuality
and blah, blah, blah was to, to get to repentance.
And, uh, the only way to get to repentance was, you know, I had to pray for it.
And so it was, and you know, I remember praying and thinking, Oh, I've repented
Lord, I, cause I was on my knees for two hours and I was just crying.
I was praying.
And then the next day I was looking at porn or something.
Uh, it's just like, it's okay.
So then that repentance wasn't real.
So it's guilt.
It's just, and then it just, your whole, you know, you just, your whole world
just collapses again.
So it's, it's definitely, and I think, yes, some churches definitely do use
that as, as a weapon of guilt.
Would you, like, would you see that, like, if you were to pray and repent
and, and, and the process, and then the next day you'll find yourself looking
at someone or, or having perverted thoughts or looking at porn or something.
Would you see that as like, almost like, um, fulfillment that you like film it,
but like evidence that you were like broken or would you, would you interpret
that as like, I'm not good enough or not good enough.
Yeah.
Like that, that my repentance wasn't sufficient.
Yeah.
My, um, I wasn't, I wasn't, um, I wasn't broken enough.
I didn't want to be straight enough or not even just straight.
I didn't want to serve God and I didn't love God enough that I was able
to break the sin of homosexuality.
I've experienced that same, um, same thing.
Someone said, I know that your sexuality conflicted with your Christian faith,
but do you ever consider Christian, did you ever question Christianity
for not supporting your sexuality?
Yeah.
Um, probably the church more than anything.
Okay.
Um, cause you never viewed it as, you never have you viewed, um, like, you
never viewed it as like God doesn't like you or accept you.
You more viewed it as the church, I guess.
In the latter part of before I came out.
Yeah.
Um, before that, no, I did think it was God.
Okay.
And then that slowly sort of changed.
And I suppose as I did more of my own research and started to look at what
other people's talk about, when other people talk about interpretations
or mistranslations in the Bible and how this person was never even using
the word homosexuality, they were using another, you know, and it's almost
like the, it's been engineered or rewritten to target gay people.
So, and you've spent a lot of time, uh, a little time actually, um, doing
Bible studies with some of the elders in their church, didn't you?
To, and eventually when you got to the end, I think you've told me this story.
Eventually when you got to a spot where they, they, they basically said, well,
we just have to trust that they knew what they were doing.
Yeah.
Look, I, we studied, we studied scripture for the words that were used.
If that makes sense, the translation that was used.
There's eight verses that talk about homosexuality.
I can't remember something, but I got, we got to a point where I then
wanted to delve into the original Hebrew or, um, the Greek, you know,
and how it may have been mistranslated.
What other words could it mean?
And yeah, I was told, well, we just have to believe that the people
that made the translation chose the right words.
And that gets, I guess that goes back to that infallible thing.
You can't question whether the Bible is right because then it becomes
and what else do you question?
Yeah.
Did the messages preach in church ring true in your life?
I have to be honest.
So many of the messages I just, I don't even recall.
Yeah.
Like I'd be sitting in church and then I'd come out and I'd be like,
when did you talk on?
Yeah.
I don't remember what he spoke on.
That was the demon.
That's the demon.
It was, yeah, it's obviously, yeah, mirrors and stuff.
Terrible smoking mirrors.
Yeah.
I know, um, sometimes it, I suppose it, honestly, it spoke to me.
On subjects that were close to my heart already, things like community
and looking after people that were lost and broken.
I think that's something that the church does fantastic at.
And then I really wish that, um, that's something that we should be commended on.
Um,
you know, unless you're gay, it's, it's a great, it's a great,
the great greeting and that initial couple of months.
And then after that, yeah.
Unless you're, um, yeah, unless you're gay or something, yeah, or God forbid,
like you're a transgender or something, or even a little bit needy.
Yeah.
Or have some issues.
Yeah.
If you, if you have issues, unless you, uh, if you can wear all like white
t-shirts and jeans and you're quite fashionable and you can sing on the band,
you're well good.
Um, and you're wearing this.
Yeah.
And you're wearing $1,200 shoes.
Um, yeah.
Were you more afraid of the judgment from God or judgment from your peers?
I said, again, that's one of those things that changed.
Yeah.
So for the like, probably for like the first, um, 20 years, it was a fear
of judgment of God and eternal damnation.
And then it became a fear of how people would react.
Okay.
More than anything.
Yeah.
Um, did you have pushback from any church members when you did?
I know, I know of some, but of a pushback when you did come out of the closet.
Yeah.
You have any like shocking stories or anything like that?
Well, I had some people say, why don't you just stay in the closet?
Yeah.
You know, and then, yeah, I had instances where, um, I was told that, uh, I
couldn't hang around certain, okay, like the staff of the church.
I was, I was very good friends and I had a lot of friends in the staff
of the church that I was attending.
And, uh, um, I would study there at church as well.
Um, I was studying at one of the universities and they have a big
cafe and I'd go and sit at the cafe and study.
And it was just good to get out of the house.
And, um, then I came out as gay and, uh, for 12 years, you'd been going to this cafe.
Yeah.
And, uh, I think I, I naively thought that everything was going to be okay when I
came out because no one knew, right?
They all already knew.
It's just that you weren't, not everyone knew.
Yeah.
And, uh, I was initially told that, um, I, I shouldn't come to the church to study
anymore because I was a distraction.
Um, and I mean, you're a distraction.
I am a distraction.
The whole 12 years.
But now it's, now it's too much.
Yeah.
Maybe it was the pink pants you were wearing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's very distracting.
Uh, um, that was a bit hard.
And then I think I went overseas or something and then I came back, but the issue
came to surface again.
And, and, and I asked this person why I couldn't study at the church or no,
we'll even just come in and have lunch.
Cause I think I wasn't studying at that stage.
So I couldn't even come and have lunch with the staff.
And I was told is because I was, um, a spiritual, potentially a bad spiritual
example towards the leaders and the, and the staff of the church.
And it's like, well, you know, if the staff can be easily misled, but well,
no, not that I was going there to mislead anyone.
Anyway, I was just going to have lunch with people who were my friends.
And it's not like I was, um, preaching the, the agenda of homosexuality.
We're recruiting, you know, it's, I was just talking about my life and,
and the church and their life.
You were also involved in, I don't want to give too much away, but you're,
it's not like a homeless shelter or it's like a food service.
You're stocking shelves and stuff for a food service.
And you were told that you couldn't be part of that, right?
It was something because you weren't attending church, even though there
were people were stocking shelves or what had happened was I had made the
decision that I, um, there were people that were leaders.
And then there was my, and I felt like I wanted to save that friendship.
And I felt like the only way I could save that friendship was if I
actually went to another church, then I wasn't under their leadership.
Yeah.
So, cause my sexuality was an issue.
Yeah.
So I thought, if I go to another church and remove that from the equation,
then we can remain friends.
And then I was told that if I did leave the church, but I wouldn't be able
to volunteer as a volunteer in this, um, so like a separate community thing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's not, but there were people in that who didn't attend the church, right?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
But for you, it was different 80% of the people that were volunteering
there didn't have anything to do with the church, but for, but for you,
it was different because you used to attend the church and yeah.
Yeah.
Seems almost like they just didn't want you around.
It certainly did.
Had to kick someone out when without saying it's because you're gay.
Yeah.
Do you think the church's stance on LGBTQ issues have caused a lot of people
to become irreligious?
Do you think you think it's cause people to lose their faith or walk away from
their faith?
Yeah.
I definitely think that because I just feel like the church is meant to be a
place that's inclusive.
I mean, if you look back to the Old Testament, I mean, God
instructed the, the Israelites to build an outer court around the
temple for the Gentiles.
So God was being inclusive of which people, which were disgusting and
outcast back then, and we can't do the same in, in an era of grace now.
It could put like a little fenced yard for homosexuals and lesbians.
Put up some umbrellas and make it look nice.
Put out a nice spread.
Yeah.
Put out a nice spread.
Yeah.
Okay.
So over to the personal section, personal questions that people have asked.
Was there ever the one that got away that you never felt like you could truly
express yourself with because you were closeted?
Yeah.
I've always had crushes though.
I've always had crushes over the years that I've never, you can't say anything
to like, I did have one person that I crushed on heavily for, for many years
back in the, my first church.
What was her name?
What was her name?
And this person eventually knew it became sort of obvious and it sort of, it
sort of like it ended our friendship.
That person probably had all rights to do so because I was confused.
I was, you know, I wasn't in the right frame of mind.
You know, I hadn't even sort of come out.
So, and this person, and he wasn't gay.
Yeah.
So.
Well, yeah, like that makes it quite hard to have a, to have a gay
relationship from one of you aren't gay.
In what ways do you think being closeted and hearing homophobic messages
growing up has affected your confidence and self-esteem?
It affected it a great deal because you always felt discredited from being
able to be involved in certain things, especially, you know, like when I came
out in the church that I'm in, in sort of now, I sort of, there was an
expectation that I had to step down from working with children.
And I hated that because I loved working with the kids.
And, you know, I wasn't asked to step down, but it was just like I stepped
down because I wanted to save my friend at the time, who was also my
pastor, the grief of having to do that.
The thing too is when, when we say that you came out, it's not like you
came up on a Sunday morning, got on the mic and told everyone, you just, when
someone asked you, nothing changed really.
It's just if someone asked you like, hey, um, you know, you're like, oh, yeah,
I'm actually gay.
Like you just wouldn't hide it if someone asked.
Like it's not like there was this big thing.
I just, and you know, people talk and then it gets around and then homophobic
parents are probably going, why is he teaching kids?
Yeah.
As if that's like, I'm handing out agenda pamphlets, you know, from the gay agenda.
I want to be gay, I want to be gay.
Yeah.
It's just crazy.
I, I don't know why are they, I don't understand where they're coming from
because they're either afraid that I could turn someone gay or are they afraid
that I will give their child who's already going to, probably going to be
gay, the impression that that's okay.
Now, if my kid, wouldn't you want someone to be there for them to let them
know that it's okay to be who they are?
Or would you rather your kid kill themself?
I mean, it's, I know it's any parent that would choose to have their kid
kill themself over being gay is like, it's not a parent.
It's not a parent should never have been allowed to have kids.
In fact, should be just sterilized right now.
There's so many people who I'd love to take away the ability to have kids.
Oh, if for sterilization wasn't closely linked to Hitler, I'd be all for it as well.
That's jokes, jokes.
Um, you'd have YouTube joke.
Do you, do you, um, feel, uh, do you feel shame around your sexuality or did you?
And if, and if yes, do you think it's because you believed your identity is
shameful or because you were, you were in a shameful environment?
I definitely felt ashamed of being gay and feeling that I was gay.
And it wasn't, I don't, I think back then I didn't make a discernment
between my environment and my life.
My environment being the church was one and the same as my life.
You know, so yes, definitely looking back upon it now, I know that it was
responsible for making me feel ashamed, but I was ashamed that I was gay.
Yeah.
Does the shame affect you a lot?
Do you, do you still feel shame in your life?
Oh, that's a hard one.
Cause I don't feel ashamed of being gay anymore, not at all, but I still feel
ashamed that sometimes I catch myself almost making any, almost excusing myself.
Just every now and then I'll do something like, oh, you know, I don't do that
because, you know, I'm not interested in women because I'm gay or something.
It's like, why am I making it sound like I'm excusing, making, you know,
apologizing for the fact that I'm gay.
You know, as you said that, it just, it makes a lot more sense to me now
about the pride, you know, parades and stuff.
It's, it's, it's the, it's the antithesis of that.
It's the, I am who I am, you know, I can, it makes a lot more sense.
Yeah.
And the only thing I think I'm ashamed of that's still attached to the past is there
have been, I think two instances where I've hurt girls, women in my past where I
wanted so much to be straight.
And there was even people, you know, that sort of like championed the idea of
just go out with a girl and just, you know, almost like, was it, what's that
old saying, fake it to your maker, you know?
And, and so I did, I did go out with two girls, sort of two girls.
And I, I loved them very much as they were very good friends, but that was it.
Yeah, there was, there was no physical attraction.
Did you, like, you didn't get any, you didn't physically, like, you didn't,
like, have sex with them or anything.
No.
Yeah.
Yeah.
How do you imagine your life would be different if you were raised in an
LGBT, TQI plus, affirming society or our environment?
Well, it wouldn't have existed in the 80s, not out at Mergan.
It's hard because I don't, I, it's, that's a really hard one.
Because look, I've seen so many shows where that I've just broken down and
cried because it talked, it reflected on the lives of gay, gay men in the, in
the 70s and the 80s and just the rate of, of people that were getting HIV and,
and dying of AIDS.
And it was like plague proportions.
So a part of me feels like a little bit grateful that I, that I didn't rush
out into the 80s and then maybe the early 90s and explore that lifestyle.
Because now I'm alive and I'm healthy.
But, you know, it's, it's a catch 22, I guess, isn't it?
I mean, I sacrificed, I didn't have the youthful experiences that a gay man has,
but I was also kept safe.
You think you would be more confident in yourself though, if you, if you grew up
from the start, having a society that didn't care about?
Yeah.
Yeah.
No one should care really about sexuality.
No one should, it shouldn't be an even, even your talking point.
It's just, yeah, okay.
Yeah, but you need the whole society to, to be on board.
You know what I mean?
Like, well, there are some people who really hate like mental ice cream.
But yeah, it's not really a conversation that you talk about.
I'm going to skip that one because we kind of talked about before.
We're going to move on to the advice stage.
So we've got three big questions here.
Do you think society is moving in the right direction today in supporting
LGBTQI plus communities?
Or do you think there is something else that can be done better?
I think we are moving in the right direction.
But I fear that there is an unnerving push by the right right now.
They seem to be in louder and stronger.
And you're seeing a reversal of freedoms for LGBTQ people in China and in
Russia for quite a while, but in other countries.
And I do worry that we, in some parts of the world, stepping back from those
rights and I worry about the U.S.
Of course, you're always going to have a problem in a country like the U.S.
where it was a Supreme Court that decided that same-sex couples can have
the right to marriage.
You know, people bitched and moaned and complained about having the plebiscite
in Australia, but at least at the end of the day, the people of the nation
had their voice heard and they said, yes.
So you can't, I mean, they can introduce laws and legislations to try and
overturn that, but you can't overturn the voice of the people.
And that is that the majority of our country support people of the same sex
to have the right to get married.
Whereas in the U.S., that can just be overturned like that.
What would you say to your 20-year-old self?
I was going to say, buy a whole wagon, condoms and go out and have a good time.
Buy a Bitcoin.
Buy juice, yeah.
Say it with me, Apple.
I would say...
We're talking 50 years ago.
Yeah.
It took me a second.
What?
No.
You know, I don't want to say don't get involved in the church,
but because it was a vital piece of play it out to be who I was,
but not only did it, not only did my faith shape me who I am,
shaped me to who I am, I feel like it also took years off, years away from me.
Do you understand what I'm saying?
So it's like, what advice to give to someone
when I don't know what the ramifications of that advice will be, you know?
Would you tell us, like, let's say just around the topic of your sexual identity,
what would you tell yourself?
I would say, be honest, be truthful to who you are, live who you are
and make everything else bend around that.
Not like, not the other way around, like, let everything in your life
bend around your faith, your Christian principles of what the church says.
You are gay, live that, love everyone else.
Just love people, be honest with yourself
and adopt everything else around your life,
but let it all come around your identity, who you are.
And the last question,
what would you say to someone who may be closeted
because of the religious identity today and who is maybe watching this podcast,
wondering maybe they're 15, maybe they're 20, maybe they're 30
and they're wondering, you know, what they should do or what.
Of course, this is hard to because there's countries where you could be killed
for being gay still, which is another whole thing.
But let's say they're in, I would say, if you're in a safe country,
like the West, somewhere that's technically the West,
I would say that you're probably going to always
never feel happy until you accept who you are.
And that perhaps you need to not abandon your faith.
I would never suggest anyone abandon their faith,
but find a middle ground, find a moderate expression of your faith.
And would you say there's a difference between accepting who you are
and having a gang bang with 15 dudes?
Definitely.
There doesn't mean you have to be debauchery or anything.
No, or maybe the faith, maybe the church that you're attending right now
isn't the church where you need to be.
Maybe you should be looking for a more liberal church
that you can go to and then you can just be yourself and be open and honest.
And you're still going to learn all about your faith.
You're still going to be able to have a relationship with Christ.
But it's you won't be struggling.
Every time you go to church, you're not going to be struggling
with what you're not, what you can't do, what you can't be.
You're not enough. You're not good enough.
You'll be able to focus properly on your relationship with God
or your Christian expression and still be who you are.
You know what I mean? Like too much time is sacrificed
on trying to change something that you can't change.
And if that's not how is that honoring to God?
If you're going into a church building
and you're spending all your time thinking about trying to change one aspect of yourself
instead of focusing on him.
That's really, that's a really profound point.
Thank you for coming on the Deep Drinks podcast, Colin.
It's been a wonderful one of a time.
He's happy back. OK.
