Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcast, the deepest podcast on the internet.
Today my guest is a very interesting one.
Jonathan MSP is a philosopher, a journalist, an author, running from South Hampshire, UK.
Jonathan has a strong academic background, but most importantly for this conversation
is his master's in philosophy from the prestigious University of Wales.
Today we'll be looking at the religious ramifications of finding ETI, Extraterrestrial Intelligence,
the subject of his book, Alien and Religion, where the two worlds collide, along with
the God question in general.
Jonathan is also the author of the 30 arguments against the existence of God, why I am an
atheist and not a theist, the resurrection, a critical examination of the Easter story,
about seeing God, Atheism in the 21st century, along with many, many more.
Jonathan advocates that casual philosophy should meet over pious of good ale, so he
fits in very well here, so we are very excited to welcome Jonathan Pears.
Let's do this.
Hey, welcome to Deep Thanks Podcast.
I'm nice to like the fact that you called the University of Wales prestigious.
I mean, that's good, that's the first, but no, thanks mate, I really appreciate it.
I use your terminology, I swear, that was either one of your buyers online somewhere
and I was like, I don't know, I guess it's prestigious, I guess so.
That's fine, I'll take that.
No, thank you, thank you for this and it's a shame it won't be the deepest of drinks.
I know you've got other commitments, so you'll be joining me for shallow drinks.
I'll be the deep drinker if you want.
Yeah, for sure.
Well, we can still have a deep conversation.
I do have work after this, so I can't finish the bottle is what I would say, but if this
conversation goes well, we can have you on for another time and that would be super
awesome to do, because you've got a lot to talk about, but before we, I've been blown
away by your work, so let me just first ask, what are we drinking today, Jonathan?
Well, what I said to you, let's go for our most local wine.
I've got a red wine from, it's a Pinot Noir and that's always difficult to get right,
right?
So, and it's an English wine, so highly controversial, but apparently this is all right.
This is from Titchfield, which is really local to me, like this is super local and in the
absence of that going down well, I also have two drinks, two beers from Gosfor, which is
just down the road.
And if you can indulge me a second, this is from the fallen acorn brewery, used to be
the oak leaf brewery and then it shut down, so then they had a fallen acorn, so it's grown
back and the logo for that was, I think, helped designed by Stephen Woodford, whose rationality
rules, so he actually, so he lives quite locally to me, so he helped design that anyway.
So that's a red cat brewing and that's a, because you live in West Island, don't you?
I live in, I live in Australia.
Yeah, West Island, so this is from, this is a New Zealand beer, where you've got North
Ireland, South Ireland and you've got Australia, which is West Ireland, it's just, you know,
part of the Farsi period.
Yeah, it's just part of the Farsi period in New Zealand, right?
You've got North Ireland, South Ireland and West Ireland.
So this is a New Zealand beer and well, it's a British beer from just down the road, but
it's doing a New Zealand red beer and this is the Warrior Double IPA, so HMS Warrior's
in Portsmouth, which is really local to me, and this is brewed at the Powder Monkey, which
in Gosport, where during previous wars, hundreds of years ago, Victorian era, that's where they
used to keep the powder for the warships in Gosport, because they didn't want to care.
Here's a little thing, and I know I've done a lot of talking, they didn't mind Gosport
blowing up, so they kept all the, like, the gunpowder in Gosport, it was a bit rubbish,
and then Portsmouth is like, no, we won't keep the gunpowder there, and when we want to put it
on the ships, we'll just ship it over from Gosport, but there you go.
That's awesome.
So, well, thank you very much, and I do appreciate the ribbing on the New Zealand Australia question.
I am shocked that anyone would take your position.
Funnily enough, we were going to move to New Zealand at one stage.
It broke my heart, but I was going to go work for the only Christian game studio in the world.
Which is cool, they had like this, they had like this grant, sorry?
Is that a thing?
Yeah, yeah, there used to be some Christian games, they used to rip off, not this studio,
but they used to rip off, it's called Wisdom Tree, they used to rip off all these like,
these like classic like Zelda and all the NES games, and then with, and then this new game
studio, what they did is they had a grant that was like worth millions and millions of dollars.
It wasn't a grant from the government, it was like a bunch of rich people.
They got together and they were like, before New Zealand had a, when they had a lot of rural
towns, they would send out these like kids programs to kids in these rural areas, like
teaching about Noah's Ark and stuff, and it was a ministry.
But then when the internet came around, it was like, well, we don't need this anymore,
but they still had millions of dollars, like what do we do?
And then someone floated the idea, why don't you guys create a video game?
And the actual, the video game was actually pretty interesting, it was like a,
it was like an RPG, like Final Fantasy or something, but it was, it was retelling the
story of the Bible, but through like allegory, so like, you know, there was Sodom and Gomorrah,
but it was like, in the game, it was like, it was like this factory spewing smog everywhere
and all this stuff, and it was like online multiplayer, but as soon as it came out.
It's like CS Lewis in computer games.
Yeah, pretty much, yeah, pretty much, and it was, you know, and it died as soon as it came out,
so I'm lucky we didn't go over there, but I'm still friends with the producer who I
hassled for a long time to try and get on the team.
But yeah, we were packing up our stuff to go over there and I just didn't get the job
at the last minute.
So it's a lovely country.
I love, I love New Zealand, big fan.
I love Australia as well as backpack, I backpacked around Australia in 1996.
So, you know, I went from Sydney down to Melbourne to Adelaide,
out of Springs, Perth, Darwin, and then skedaddled.
So yeah.
Yeah, what I love about that is like New Zealand and Australia have a very good,
well, not so much Australia anymore, but they have a good hitchhiking culture.
Yeah, New Zealand, it's like, it's very safe.
Like everyone, it's like, it's like a part of the community to hitchhike.
In Australia, not so much.
We had the backpack motors like back a long time ago, but my dad used to hitchhike from
Melbourne all the way up to Early Beach, so like right from the bottom all the way up to
the top of his dog.
And his dog got so used to the trip, like he used to be sleeping in drainpipes.
Like, you know, he was just rough on it, like real, you know, like not homeless, but like,
you know, just love the wildness of the road.
And his dog got so used to the trip that when from Melbourne to Early Beach,
which is like the size of the country almost, the dog jumped in someone's
ute going back the other way.
And my dad's looking around for the dog and he just sees the two ears in the back of someone's
ear and he's like, get out of there.
Get out of there.
The dog was sick of it.
He's like, I know I'm going home.
So yeah, brilliant.
Well, can I just say for a British, for an English wine, this is, and for Pino, Pino in
the world as well, this is all right.
The wine shop, they're like, yeah, it's all right.
It's not bad, especially for the money for a Pino and an English wine.
Normally, if you've got to get a half decent English wine, you've got to pay 30, 40 pounds.
I'm not, I wasn't going to do that.
But this, this is all right.
I'll take that.
Well, I've got the Avarosa, Avarosa Valley Shiraz from 2016.
Avarosa Valley is our most, probably the most, one of the most popular wine regions.
Yeah.
It's down, down further south.
It's not super local to us.
It's like the other side of the country.
But it's down near Victoria, but it's like Adelaide area.
But it's, but yeah, I'll try.
So it's not your most local wine.
That's not good enough.
No, I'm sorry.
You've failed me.
Oh, that's what you mean.
What do you mean?
I didn't know.
Next time, next time, it's going to be your most local wine.
You too.
Did you tell, did you want to do the most local wine?
I thought you were just saying, let's do a local wine.
Oh, no, the most local.
Okay.
That's a challenge.
All right.
Well, I have, you know what?
I have stuff to do up because, and I'm not, I can't even drink a lot of it either.
So let's have you on another time where we can, where I can really make it up to you.
I apologize.
But damn, I wish I, I wish I kind of read that properly.
I've been super busy, but anyway, sorry.
So with you, so you've written a lot.
So you've written the 30 of arguments for the existence,
against the existence of gold, which I think is a fantastic book.
And you've also written the book that I had.
Aaron on, you co-authored it with Aaron.
I'm Dr. Aaron Adair.
Yeah, that one.
Yep.
Aliens of religion by two gods collide.
And then 30 arguments against the existence of God, heaven, hell, Satan and divine design.
And there is a little bit crossover there, actually,
with some kind of design when you talk about aliens and the universe.
Yeah, it's, and I really appreciate how easy it was to read the 30 arguments book
because you sent that to me just as like a bonus.
And I started reading that and I was like, this is just very easily,
very easy to read for a layman.
So that was, that was the intention as well.
Like really, I was like, I want this to be, I want these arguments to pack a punch.
And I think they really do pack a punch.
I think there's, well, I don't think any of the arguments have answers.
Otherwise, I wouldn't have put them in a book if they're easily answered.
There'd be pointless writing about them.
I think those pack a punch and it's nice to be able to give some of that
deep hitting philosophy and package it up for the layman, for the intelligent layman.
It makes me wonder why, like, it makes me, because the arguments are really good.
I'm sure that there are, there are apologists of some sort who can find their way around
it. And that's the point, right, is you can find your way around anything.
If you try hard enough, it's just whether or not that's the most reasonable solution.
That is a really important point.
No, what you said is super, super important.
And in fact, it's important for, we talk about it in the aliens and religion book,
because what you find, and you'll find this a lot in apologetics, is the move Richard
Carrier coined it as possibility ergo probability, which is, it's possible.
Therefore, it's probable.
And it's really, really common Christian apologetics.
So you say, or theistic apologetic, where they say, okay, here's a problem.
Conceptually, this could be an answer to it.
Like, it's conceptually possible.
And then you go, right, it's conceptually possible.
Therefore, it's probable.
And then they go, and therefore, that's the answer.
Therefore, it's it.
And they jump from, they invalidly, I would say, or unsoundly, jump from possibility to,
that's what happened, all like that.
And you find this with even talking about biblical exegesis and historical analysis with
regards to, say, with regard to the nativity.
So I've written a book on the nativity, where you have this issue where the census
happened in the reign of Corineus as a governor of Judea.
And then you had Herod the Great living at the same time.
So both of these things happen in the story of the nativity.
But actually, Herod the Great died in 4 BCE, and the census took place in 6 CE.
So there's a 10 to 12 year gap between the two of these things being able to coexist.
And I argued against Lydia McGrew on an unbelievable radio show.
And she was coming up with all this, well, this, you know, she provided really
confidently, provided these possibilities.
Well, it could be that this was the case.
And then every single time, it's a possibility or a probability.
Because she said it so confidently, the people watching, like, oh, yeah, yeah,
she had in there, is like, no, all she did was present things that possibly could have
conceptually happened and showed no case that that was the most plausible explanation.
Sorry, too much talking.
No, no, that's the perfect, the perfect amount of talking.
This is what we do.
But the, exactly, you can take Noah's Ark, the most implausible thing in the Bible,
in my opinion, one of the most implausible anyway, and you've got Noah's Ark and you're like,
okay, well, maybe it's random chance that all the fossils appeared to, you know,
to be flooded and appeared to line up as if evolutionary phylogeny was true.
It's possible that maybe all the dating we have for all the different cultures around the world
is just wrong for different reasons.
It's like, you can possibly all the evidence we have that there was no global flood,
all the scientific evidence we have is just misguided.
And actually, the story that looks like it was borrowed from the Mesopotamians is actually true.
You could say that.
Like, it's plausible, but it's not plausible at all.
It's not by any means plausible.
A really nice analogy to this that almost sounds like frivolous is, well, unicorns could exist.
And that's basically what the apologist is saying.
It's like, well, this could be the reason.
Yeah, unicorns could exist.
But is that the most plausible explanation of the data we have?
No, it's not.
And so I won't just rely on a possibility, on a conceptual possibility.
Well, it's funny too, because aren't there unicorns in the Bible?
Like, technically?
Yeah, and the whole idea, yeah, I don't know the exact nature of that,
but there are claims that, yeah, they're referring to unicorns.
I just looked up Anziah 347, and the unicorns shall come down with them,
and the bollocks with the bulls, and they'll lay in shell, be soaked in blood,
and their dust made fat with fatness.
I'm sure there's a different translation for that word unicorns.
Yeah, I was going to say.
That's the James translation, say.
Yeah, yeah, and there's unicorns.
Going to be about the translation.
So I would have to look into that.
But yeah, goodness me, there are, the Hebrew Bible is an interesting one,
and trying to take it literalistically.
So many of these stories are so obviously etiological,
so they are explanations of geographical data,
or explanations of how things came to be, or people, or whatever.
So you look at, there's a salty rock, isn't there, somewhere near the Dead Sea,
and that is, hence the Lot's Wife story popping up,
and it's to explain a kind of pillar, a rock pillar.
And once you understand that as an etiological story,
then it starts making more sense as just, yeah,
we'd expect to see stuff like that.
And when we look at other cultures, and understand their stories as myths,
or explanations of data, in that kind of sense,
then why wouldn't the Bible be, why would the Bible be any different?
Exactly.
So I've linked both your books, one in the chat, and one in the description.
Everyone, go check out the book, this Kindle and Paperback,
for 30 arguments against the existence of God, and aliens,
and religion, where the two worlds collide.
They're fantastic.
I'm going to bug you guys to pay for a signed copy,
because I've liked both these books a lot.
I'm going to have to check out your other work, because I'm a new fan.
I really do like it.
So, no, no problem.
I've got a question.
So before we move into aliens, and before we move into God,
so I think maybe we could start with God,
then move into aliens on the second half.
But before we even begin to ask the God question,
I want to know, European, as a philosopher,
how do we even begin to ask a question about something like God?
Like, you said this when you debated Jonathan McClatchy,
that we have the same evidence.
We have the same Bible.
We have the same, unless Jonathan's advocating
for some sort of personal revelation, we have the same evidence.
Yet, you both arrive at very different conclusions.
So I'm wondering, is there a philosophical issue
in one of your thinking?
Are you not seeing something?
Or is Jonathan not seeing something?
Or am I not seeing something?
Like, how do we begin to ask that question about God?
I would argue that it's not a philosophical issue.
It's a psychological issue.
And belief is psychological and sociological.
So what believers don't do ever, they say,
oh, I've got rational belief and blah, blah, blah,
but it's post-doc rationalized.
They enter the belief psychologically,
and then they spend the rest of their lives
scrabbling around for rational arguments
to support their belief.
But they don't assent to the belief on the basis of this.
No one does this, unfortunately,
is to read every book on theology
from every religion in the world,
every encyclopedia of black world's guides
to natural theology.
They don't read every single philosophical text
and then go, right, now I've got all this requisite knowledge.
I'm now in the best position to assent to a belief
or a proposition or whatever, a worldview.
No one does that.
What they do is they end up being in a worldview
because their parents believe they were taken to church
and this and that, or they had a crisis in their life
and were looking for God or whatever psychological need
function that religion provides for the believer.
That's what takes hold of the believer.
And then they go, right, now I'm in this,
I better justify this when I'm in an argument with someone else,
and then they go and look for the argument.
So belief, unfortunately, I've given public speeches
to universities where I've gone in and said, right,
okay, I know that 50% of you from the Christian Union
and 50% of you from the atheist society.
For the Christians in here,
I am not going to convince you to disbelieve tonight.
What I'm going to say, there'll be the backfire effect.
I'm going to give you rational argument against your position
and you will entrench in your original position
even more strongly on the basis of me challenging that
because this is psychological.
So if I want to disabuse you of your belief system,
I need to understand what psychologically tethering you
to that belief system in order to kind of cut that tether.
Hmm. Well, that's it.
Like this is a sneak peek into the next era of deep drink.
Some is going on an anti-apologetic arc
because I have decided that apologetics is wildly more dishonest
than I thought it was.
And Kip Davis feels the same.
Kip Davis is coming on.
We're going to discuss it, but the thing is,
like, no, I don't know anyone who's like,
like exactly what you said,
and this is what I've said before too is like,
no one comes, no one's like, you know what?
I just had, I looked at the arguments
and I was convinced that God is real
because of the Kalam or anything.
No, no, no, no, no.
Like you either wanted to believe in God,
like you had a, you either brought up a Christian,
went through a crisis or something like that,
and then you found the evidence compelling enough to then.
I mean, how do you come to be a believer when you are?
What's your story?
Well, my story is I was born into a Christian household,
but, you know, I went to church from a young age
and things like that.
But as a teenager, I kind of stepped away from God,
but I got invited.
No, you didn't.
You were angry with your father, as I say.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, everyone come up with some reasons
why I stepped away from my,
I moved up with my dad actually.
So I moved up with my dad
and that's when I kind of like moved away from God,
I would say.
But I eventually got invited to a youth group,
a Pentecostal youth group with some,
of which I ended up being a youth pastor by some girls.
And I went along and I had this tremendously powerful,
for lack of a better word, spiritual experience.
Crying felt changed,
felt all the hatred left my heart,
all that kind of stuff.
I felt drunk for two days.
Like it was, it was, it was an, it was an experience.
And then I went to, I was so delirious from all this.
I went to, I went to school on the Monday
and someone said, oh, someone told me
you got saved on a youth group on Friday night.
I said, no, I didn't.
I'm thinking like, no, I didn't.
What are you talking about?
And then I realized I did.
And then I was like, you know what?
Yeah, I did.
And then I became captain Christian at school.
I was running Bible studies and all that stuff.
But for me, it was a part of,
even when I was sitting there about to have
my spiritual experience in this,
or I say spiritual, just for use of,
I don't actually believe in the spirit realm.
But, but, but, you know, I'm, as I was sitting there,
I was arguing with God.
So I believed in God.
So I was sitting there saying like,
I don't want to be, you know,
I don't want to deal with this now.
I'll deal with this when I'm 40, when I'm 50.
I don't want to, you know,
I still want to live my life, et cetera, et cetera.
So I was arguing with God in this,
in this area.
So yeah, it became a, it was,
I remember actually, what actually happened is
I put my head down and like covered my face.
And because I just tried to pretend I wasn't there.
I was sitting at the back of the youth hall.
Everyone was at the front praying.
And all these teenagers came over
and started praying for me and prophesying,
prophesying over me.
And that, that, that's that step in faith.
Think of how many psychological things are going on there.
How much validation of you you're going through.
And like, it's all about you.
I don't want to, I'm not belittling that.
I'm explaining in some sense,
what would have been going on for you.
And just, yeah, together with all of that,
and maybe all the issues or worries you'd had in the world.
And yeah, yeah.
Well, yeah.
So I can, I can, I can, I've thought about this a lot.
So one, I was, I was tremendously,
I was a very depressed kid, like very angry, you know,
kind of, kind of kid.
I also was already arguing with God.
I felt like I'd lost my way a little bit, you know,
because I was, I was into church before
I went to move up with my dad and, you know,
and I was arguing with God.
And then there was the step of faith
that all these teenagers my own age
were like praying and prophesying for me and telling me,
I know you feel X, Y, Z,
but God wants you to know ABC.
And it was like stuff I needed to hear.
And then I'm looking down at a puddle of tears.
Like this, but then what's, what's even more crazy?
Is I, I psychoanalyzed this for a while
is the youth pastor that I like immediately.
So like only a couple of weeks later,
I went to a youth group with the,
and the youth pastor was like me and him connected really well,
but he was an awesome guy.
And I think I found a father figure in that youth pastor
because my dad has this had this, this,
this perspective that like the axe was always falling.
So when I would come to dad and be like,
dad, I did something really awesome.
He would always be like, that's great.
He's like, but just watch out for this.
Like, cause he's always like, I think, you know,
he felt like life's kicked him around a lot.
And it had that he was always trying to protect me.
But that came away as like negativity.
But this new guy, this new father figure in my life
was like, you're awesome. You're amazing.
And there's a funny story where everyone at the,
at the hangout at school was telling me that God was gay,
but they'll pick on me, right?
And, and like making like really inappropriate jokes and stuff.
So I decided to play into the jokes.
It was just how I dealt with things.
So I said, no, God isn't gay.
And I said, because in the Bible,
it says that God, gays aren't going into heaven
and God's in heaven.
So I get up on a chair and I'm reading from one Corinthians
where it says, I tell you the truth, you know,
sexually immoral idolatrous homosexuals
will not enter the kingdom of heaven.
And as I'm doing that, the,
the girls that environment to the youth group
on the weeks prior had come down to the, to the hangout
to see how it was going.
And they just see from a distance,
me with a Bible in my hand, preaching to everyone
who's kind of like laughing at me.
And they turn around and walk away like shocked
because it was a spirit of a spectacle.
I'm doing it as a joke, but they tell the youth pastor,
the youth pastor in church says, young David MacDonald
with a Bible in his hand, preaching to the youth of his school.
And I'm like, oh no, like this room is starting
that I was like on this like, this campaign
to save the students.
And I went up afterwards and I told him like, oh, you know,
it was kind of a joke, but it was like, you know,
and he's like, oh, okay.
But yeah, it was, it's funny how that already started
to develop, but, but even then it was encouragement.
And that, and so I've cyclical analyzed myself
a lot with this, so.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that, yeah, you're tumbling down that road
like a snowball, which is gathering momentum.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We have a super channel.
I just want to read it out.
So, and thank you.
We're gonna need a member off the chain, Atheist.
Thank you for becoming a YouTube member.
Every little bit helps.
I appreciate it.
Aren't I dare?
Amazing.
Don't, don't let him on.
Oh, no, dude.
He's super chatty.
What a legend.
Thank you for the super chat.
I really appreciate it.
Isn't it possible that an alien named Corinean?
Yes.
Corinean.
So he was the guy in charge of the census.
Oh, okay.
Came to Earth to have a census during time of Herod and Jesus.
And we ship, and the ship was a star of Bethlehem.
There, nativity story solved.
Yeah.
That's true.
So, so Aaron has written a book
called Star of Bethlehem, A Skeptical View,
which is the go-to book on, you know,
analysis of the Star of Bethlehem.
And there are, in fact, kind of ancient aliens
or alien explanations for the Star of Bethlehem,
as to, you know, how it could be that this thing goes through the air
through the sky in such a way.
And of course, he debunks those kind of claims.
But this, this is, of course, Aaron is onto something there,
because it is possible that that is the case, Aaron.
Yes.
And then, as a good Christian, I'm sure you are,
you are jumping to, therefore, it's what happened,
or as a good ancient alienist that you are.
Because I know Aaron is a big fan of ancient aliens.
He loves them.
He thinks they're all true, and aliens built the pyramids.
Yeah, he told me that.
Like, after we got off on stream, he's like,
just so you know, like the aliens did build the pyramids.
I was like, oh, okay.
And I was like, interesting.
Brilliant.
I'm just kidding.
Brilliant. I love the fact that we both said that live.
And like, he's saying, oh, no one did, no one did.
Yes, you did, Aaron.
You believed it.
Aaron kicked my arse a little bit.
Like, we, so just the amount of the woodridden shots of 50%,
yeah, it was just, it was wild.
I was pretty buzzed after that.
That's probably like, I was up there with, you know,
how drunk I've gotten on Deep Rings before.
But so, so when you say it's psychological,
so how does someone, how do we like, if we were to like,
begin to answer that question, like, and remove as much
bias, I guess, as possible, what would you,
how could someone do that?
Like, if we were to ask the God question.
What do you mean?
Do you think someone would do what?
So, so with the God question, you mentioned that it's like,
psychologically motivated.
So people like, grow up in their faith or have a crisis of faith.
How do you know that something isn't happening to you
that is psychological motivated?
Maybe you had a, maybe you hate your dad,
and that's why you don't like God or something.
And I, yeah, it's a great question.
Yeah. What, what, why am I,
how can I special plead myself out of this issue?
You're quite right.
And I've actually done, I could point you towards,
I've done a podcast for Only Sky,
having a look at how I've ended up different from my parents.
And so I was a Christian up until 17,
but I was a real kind of nominal Christian.
In fact, I didn't really particularly understand Christianity.
And then you get into interesting questions about what is,
what is Christianity?
What is there a true Christianity?
And what qualifies you as a Christian?
So if I'm an atheist now and say I'm a Christian,
does that qualify me as a Christian?
Okay. Where do you draw the line?
It's like, yo, you are a Christian and no, you're not a Christian.
And so it's all really interesting.
And like when I was 17 and earlier,
I didn't understand any of the theology really.
I didn't understand the Son of God.
I thought Jesus was just, you know,
that wasn't the saying that we understand it now.
In fact, most Christians now don't really understand
what Son of God means.
I mean, I know plenty of Christians who think Jesus is literally
some kind of biological Son of God,
rather than part of the Holy Trinity in the Godhead,
which is a very different concept.
Anyway, you know, at a time when all of that
suffered, I didn't really understand.
But I went to boarding school.
My parents were, we lived around the world,
my dad was in the Navy.
And so that allowed me to be different from my parents
or be able to flourish in a way that, you know,
the apple doesn't fall far from the tree, does it?
But if with me, the apple fell into a river
and kind of went downstream and then like lodged itself
on a bank and I was able to grow in a different field
with different nutrients.
And therefore I've grown to be someone who is similar
in some ways to my parents, but really quite different
in what I believe and how I think.
And possibly being able to thrive in or grow up
in a kind of boarding school where your peers
are lots of people and you had lots of ideas flying around.
I'm not sort of sent down one track.
And it was a nominally religious school
as some of these places are.
We had a chapel and stuff and had to go
like a couple of times a week.
But actually that's kind of counterproductive, I think.
And then I don't know, you start thinking about things like
the problem, Viva was the first one that came along
was like, why was there so much evil?
I can't really understand that in terms of
an all loving God existing, blah, blah, blah.
You end up going down a different course
to your parents and being a sort of different person.
But still, at the end of the day,
you are the product of your environment
and your genes and your parenting, right, still.
And so it's still the same problem.
No matter who you are and where you are
and what you believe, you're still,
because this comes down to kind of
whether libertarian free will exists or not.
You are just a product of all those variables
and I am exactly that.
So again, I can try and special believe myself
as being different for someone like you growing up
and believing what you do.
I like to think that I have rationally come to
understand my worldview, but that you could
just as easily argue that's a post-op rationalization for me.
I would just still argue it's hugely more rational,
just on any kind of, I've got to a point now,
I've been doing this for so long where I just think,
man, Omnigod, all loving, all knowing, all powerful God,
it's just, she just can't make sense of that.
Yeah, no, Omnigod is just ridiculous.
Yeah, it's beyond belief.
I just lost my train of thought,
but I had a really amazing question.
So you were almost touching on earlier,
where do you start talking about God?
And in both books, in the alien and religion book
and 30 arguments against God,
I take aim or we take aim with Aaron and myself,
we take aim at the Omnigod idea,
which is the all loving, all knowing, all powerful God,
because that's the most common iteration of God
that people have.
Some people often, people do sometimes say, criticize that.
It's like, well, that's not my belief in God
or that's not like that I can think of a God
that doesn't fit that mold.
It's like, yeah, fair enough.
God belief is like the P in a shell game, right?
You kind of put it under the cup, move it around,
it's like, and you go, right, that God doesn't exist.
And you go, ah, but it's not there, it's over there.
And it's just like, come slight of hand.
It's just like, ah, you've come up with a problem for God there,
so I'm going to change my idea of God
and it's going to be this idea.
And then you criticize that and they say, no, it's not that idea,
it's this and their idea of God just shifts with every criticism.
And so what we try and do is just, okay,
let's pick the most common version of God,
the one that kind of seems to be the basis
of most modern understanding of God in modern religions.
And that is what we call the Omni-God.
Yeah, exactly.
I think for me, the separation between,
like, how is my worldview accurate
and Ken Ham's worldview non-accurate?
Like, that's how, like, the question I ask myself often,
you know, Ken Ham, the youngest creationist, right?
And I heard someone say this once and I thought it was brilliant.
And that is, whichever offers the most novel,
this gets into the science,
but whichever offers the most novel testable predictions,
that's where we should focus our energy,
which I guess is presupposing some sort of, like,
materialist-
Empiricism.
Yeah, empiricism.
But it's like, you know, if, like, for example,
like, one of my favorite analogies is, like, Tiktalic, you know,
it's like, we have fossil here, we have fossil here,
there must be something intermediate,
like, between fish thing and walking thing.
And we know it's probably in this strata.
We know it's probably, and that strata is probably,
is actually on the surface of this location on Earth.
They flew there, you know, over a few years,
they found that fossil, they dug it up.
And it's like, they predicted that prediction,
like, for evolution or the fossil record to be false,
would be such a wild coincidence at that stage,
like that, you know, or the, and Aaron talked about this
on the podcast is like the cosmic micro background radiation,
like the mathematical proof of that,
and what we actually analyze is so pinpoint perfect.
It's like, I mean, it could be a very bizarre coincidence,
but like that coincidence would be, is so novel
that it's, you have to, you have to work it into your belief system.
So it's such an important point you're saying.
Yeah, yeah.
So they cobbled together a belief system
that has to answer all these kind of criticisms
and all these, all the data, and it's kind of ad hoc.
And it's like, whereas you look at something like
naturalistic scientific naturalistic atheism,
it's like, well, this is what we predict.
And this is all kind of like, yeah,
it's all really coherent rather than,
oh, we've come across that bit of data, all that criticism.
So we've got to move sideways and put something on here
and do that.
And it's really difficult.
I think we use in the book, we talk a lot,
in fact, both books that we've mentioned tonight,
the 30 arguments and aliens and religion,
we talk about abductive argument.
And this is kind of what you're saying as well.
So abductive arguments, what's a deductive argument?
So that's something like all men are mortals,
Socrates is a man, therefore Socrates is a mortal.
You agree with the premises?
Conclusion necessarily follows.
Okay, fine.
Inductive argument, also ones I've ever seen a white,
therefore also ones are white.
And you're like, yeah, that's pretty useful
until this one is black.
And you're like, oh, okay, maybe it doesn't.
But actually probabilistically,
inductive reasoning is still really, really useful.
But abductive argument is like, okay,
we've got two hypotheses, for example,
two competing hypotheses.
When you look at any piece of data,
which hypothesis is it better?
Which hypothesis is better supported by that data?
It's the inference to the best explanation.
So you're like, okay, what better explains this bit of data?
And you can then reverse it,
which is kind of what you were talking about,
which is, okay, rather than what hypothesis
does the data better support,
it's what data does each hypothesis better predict?
So it's like with scientific naturalistic atheism
and the understanding of evolution and this and that,
you look at the fossil data that we have
and the different strata, and you're like,
well, this is what we predict.
And theology, the biblical worldview,
doesn't predict any of that,
doesn't really help you at all.
And the data is not, or just to believe in God,
it's not really predictive of what we see.
If you're fine-tuning a universe for life,
then, and this is something we deal with quite a lot in here,
actually, this is a big argument we talk about,
which is, sorry, I know I've done a lot of talking,
but I'll just finish this point.
No, no, no, talk away.
This is, there's no, you can go on longer rants as you want.
This is...
Mate, I talk a lot.
So when Christians have to find,
or theists have to fine-tuning argument,
and they say, they look at this universe and they say, right,
all these variables, all these constants,
physical constants, are just right.
And they, and this universe is what we've got.
And life just about hangs on.
And if the variable or constant was just a little bit this way,
or just a little bit that way, we wouldn't exist.
And we're clinging on to life on this pale blue dot.
And actually, when you look out there,
there's hardly any life or no life anywhere else.
And we're just here.
Therefore, this universe was made just for us.
Right.
And you're like, okay, that's interesting.
And then imagine a hypothetical,
which is the universe is teeming with life.
Right.
So we've got black holes at the present.
We've got black holes.
It looks like the universe is fine-tuning for death, if you ask me.
But the Christian will argue it's fine-tuning for life.
And then the other end of the spectrum is,
imagine the universe is teeming with life.
Everywhere you look, every moon has life on it.
The variables are so expandable,
it's so like you can move variables all over the shop,
and life would still exist.
Right.
So then the Christians say, well, look at this.
There's life or the fierce.
Look at this as life.
Everywhere is teeming.
Therefore, this is evidence that God exists.
And you're like, hang on.
You've gone from one end of the spectrum
to the other end of the spectrum.
And you said, this is evidence for God existing.
And you said, this is evidence for God existing.
In other words, no matter what the data is,
that is evidence for God existing.
You are having your cake and you're eating it.
It's like it tells you in heads I lose.
And that's a real issue there, I think,
in this kind of understanding of the data.
And yeah.
Anyway.
No, I fully agree.
And this goes a little bit into your book,
30 arguments.
So like you've written 30 arguments
against the existence of God.
Which is the best one, do you think?
Oh, damn it.
They're all brilliant, right?
I love, I couldn't, I honestly couldn't answer that.
I do like some of the simple ones.
Like, and we do mention this in here as well.
Because this is, when we talk about aliens,
you talk about, okay, if there's intelligent alien life out there,
and Aaron's talked to you about that.
And the conclusion is, well, it depends how big the universe is,
but if it is pretty damn big,
there's going to be quite a lot of aliens out there.
And if it's infinite, it's going to be infinite amount of aliens.
So, yeah, there's a bunch out there.
They're probably just too far to be able to,
you know, I say that's quarantined by distance, right?
But they're going to be out there.
Anyway, the question we're trying to answer with that book is,
is omnigod, for example, Christian omnigod,
more or less likely given the existence
of intelligent alien life out there, okay?
So you say, well, what is intelligent alien life?
Are aliens going to be intelligent?
Okay, if they're going to be intelligent,
okay, are they going to be moral?
Will it be kind of weird if they're intelligent and not moral?
And we are, why are we, okay.
So, if they're going to be moral,
are they going to be fallen?
Okay, it'd be weird if they're moral and not fallen.
And that's really unfair that we're the ones
that are chosen to be fallen
and designed in a way that we're for.
But actually, there could be all these other existences
of intelligent alien life that aren't fallen,
that are just morally perfect.
Like, that seems really unfair.
So, given that God's unlikely to be unfair,
you'd assume that all intelligent alien life is out there,
is moral and it's fallen,
then the question is, will they need atonement?
What kind of atonement would it be the incarnation of God?
And you go through all these kind of stages.
But in the kind of like, will they be fallen type thing?
Will they all have an Adam and Eve story?
Will our Adam and Eve story do it for all of them?
Or, you know, will they all need their own Adam and Eve story?
Did Jesus need to save, you know, every,
like, did Jesus need to die on every planet?
Did Muhammad need to split everyone's moon?
Like, at what stage do, yeah,
did like, the stories need to repeat on these other planets?
Because, yeah, it expands, right?
So, it's the same thing.
Like, it's the same problem, but just as like,
well, what about the uncontacted tribes in the Amazon?
You know, like, they never knew about Jesus.
Like, do they need?
And it's like, that was a huge problem a while ago.
Now, it's like, now we're talking about aliens.
It's like, it's the same problem.
It's, uh...
Yeah.
Oh, there's so many different directions we can go off in it.
And we spend a lot of time talking about whether there'll be one Jesus
or a trillion Jesuses.
And if there are trillion Jesuses,
then there'll be coexisting Jesuses in different places at the same time.
And all these problems, and, you know,
that's the kind of stuff we talk about.
But going back to one of the arguments that I really like in,
that we use, that I use in both books,
is the Adam and Eve argument.
So, even if you believe, if you believe in the literal,
all the symbolic Adam and Eve, here's the issue.
So, you've got, it's a two-horn dilemma.
So, say you've got Adam and Eve,
and you believe that, right, Adam and or Eve,
like, decided incorrectly, made a bad decision,
and we're getting kind of punished
as a result of what Adam and Eve chose, right?
Let's take David.
David McDonald.
I'm gonna say, right, we're gonna put you in for, instead of Adam.
Now, if you are gonna make the same decision that Adam made,
and or Eve, right?
And indeed, no matter who we put in those positions,
they would make that same decision,
and eat from the tree of knowledge of good and evil.
When they've been commanded not to.
Even though, like, the problem with that whole story
is that they don't have the knowledge of good and evil yet.
So, you can't punish them for eating from the tree
of knowledge of good and evil.
Like, that command has no moral value to them.
Like, don't eat from that tree is morally neutral,
because they don't have the understanding of morality.
So, if they eat from that, they shouldn't be punished.
But anyway, well, forget that glaring hole in the story.
And we say that, right, no matter who we put in those positions,
they would make the same decision,
which says that, well, God's a really crap designer.
Because actually, no matter who is in that position,
they would make the wrong decision,
which means they've been designed badly.
Which means God always wanted us to fail,
because otherwise, he foreknowingly created us,
designed us and created us,
such that we would all make that same mistake.
Therefore, the whole fall is not on us, it's on the designer.
But then, the flip side of that is,
okay, if we put David MacDonald in the position of Adam,
and David MacDonald decided differently,
and didn't eat from the tree of knowledge of good and evil,
then that's an unrepresentative sample of humanity
that God has chosen,
and we are being punished on account of Adam choosing that,
but actually, a and other person might not have chosen that.
So, we've got this two-horn dilemma,
and this is one that I don't think
has ever seen a satisfactory answer for,
which is either God is a crap designer,
or God is desperately unfair in having us
being represented by a non-representative sample.
Well, yeah, I used to make the argument
about this to people, about sin.
I used to say, if I choose to get up and fly,
and parachute over an airplane,
and live in the desert for the rest of my life,
and have children,
my children are then, therefore, live in the desert.
Like, my choices impact my children, and their children.
Oh, you've disappeared.
It's my camera.
Yeah, you've gone.
You are now.
God just said, hey, I never liked what you were saying,
and now it is going to cut you off.
I'll tell you what, you can carry on looking
for what the problem is.
Oh, there you are, you're back.
I was just about to go off on one end
and give you another one of my arguments
that's connected to that.
I'll do that anyway.
Oh, what's going on?
Oh, no, you're back, you're back, you're back.
Yeah, awesome.
Oh, sorry.
Well, what's going on?
Something's going on.
Give us two seconds.
I'll give you the floor.
Yep.
So, okay.
So, another of my favorite arguments
that I talk about in here is the idea that,
and one of the big problems of Omni-God,
this idea that God is all-knowing,
all-loving, and all-powerful,
is the divine foreknowledge.
I think it's one of the biggest issues
for belief in Omni-God.
The fact that God, or the fact that,
the notion that God supposedly has the foreknowledge
of all future even freely-willed events
is entirely problematic,
and it just causes more problems
than it kind of solves.
And one of the issues is,
and I'll argue by analogy,
so imagine there's an amazing scientist,
he's a phenomenal scientist,
he's in his lab creating sentient creatures
in test tubes or whatever.
Now, in the design phase of creating these,
before he creates them,
he knows 100% that these sentient creatures
will be created in the lab
and will go out and cause Mary Havoc in the town around.
That these sentient creatures will go out
and rape and murder and steal
and do all these horrible things.
Some of them would do nice things,
but many of them would do absolutely,
most of them would do absolutely horrible things.
And he knows that in advance of creating them
and then goes,
yeah, I'm going to create them anyway.
So he creates them,
they go out into town
and cause all this horrific moral abhorrence.
And given that,
you would expect the police to come knocking at his door
and say, hang on,
we just come to an understanding
that you've designed, knowingly designed,
and created these sentient life forms
sort of,
even though they've freely gone out
and done these things,
if you believe in free will,
which I would contest,
but even if they've freely gone out
and done these things,
you knew they would do that
and you created them anyway.
So you are ultimately responsible
for what they've done.
You knowingly set this state of affairs in motion.
Therefore,
we are going to arrest you
for being complicit in what these things have done,
in the same way that a CEO of a car company,
who was also the designer of the cars,
would be morally complicit in designing
and creating cars
that you knew would crash
and cause issue for those driving,
and yet designed and created them anyway,
and then sent them out into marketplace.
They crashed and people died.
And then,
if you're going to take atonement seriously,
then demands a payment
for those cars crashing, right?
Those cars have just gone out and crashed.
Of course, all this horrific mayhem.
Oh, and by the way,
I want you to pay me for that.
And that is,
that's the problem with Devine.
Don't worry.
I'll pay for it.
And the tug.
Yeah.
You better work.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Exactly.
It's like, oh, look, I'm okay.
Yeah, I come out of my pocket
because I need to pay for it.
Yeah, exactly.
I've had the same arguments with Christians before.
It's how do you get a,
how do you get Adam?
So there's a few problems in this.
I've had this conversation a long time.
There's a few problems.
One is like,
if you believe that Adam and Eve,
God created Adam and God was all knowing
and he created Adam and Eve,
he knew ahead of time
what choice they were going to choose.
The Christian gets around this or,
you know, I'll say Christian or Jew,
but I guess Christian.
I don't know how much Judaism believes in Adam and Eve,
but you get the average Christian and they'll say,
no, God said they had free choice.
So therefore they did.
But then that, in my opinion,
that then means that God wasn't all knowing
because God could never be surprised.
You know, as soon as they eat the fruit,
God wasn't like, well, oh my God,
like, this is amazing.
Like, well, like, he knew what they were going to do.
Yeah, it depends how you define foreknowledge,
but divine foreknowledge, as usually understood,
is a foreknowledge of even freely willed future events.
So Christians will try and get round to this.
Like, even though he knows what they're going to choose,
it doesn't mean that they are determined to choose.
I think there's a huge problem with this
and it gets into the long ways of philosophy here,
but I still think there's a massive problem with that.
But even if you assume that he's not making them choose that way,
he kind of is because he's designing and creating them
in the knowledge that they will choose that way.
And he could, he could choose other what?
He could choose other hypothetical worlds
where that didn't happen.
Yeah, he chooses a world where that did happen.
So that he's still ultimately responsible,
even if you believe in free will, because he knows.
And Christians do know this is an issue
because they've developed more recently
something called open theism,
which is the position that God doesn't know freely willed decisions.
But then it's like, God is, I think,
reduced to kind of throwing a dice,
and then Facebook has more predictive power than God.
We can understand human behavior
on a basis of 300 Facebook likes, better than God, apparently,
if he's just like, oh, I wonder what they're going to choose.
Oh, it turns out that, yeah, they're pretty good at genocide.
Yeah, and that, yeah, I mean, that's that's a typical example.
Open theism to me is a typical, typical example of,
of making, looking at the evidence, like,
or new, new thought and going, uh-oh,
and like trying to fit the version of God into that.
Like, maybe, I used to say,
maybe when God created the world, it was just the big bang,
you know, and I used to say stuff like that.
Before, I want to, I want to ask you about finding ETI,
and I want to first ask you about what your take would be on this,
which would be, which would have been my argument,
my main argument for the existence of God.
Which was, um, what do you say,
and you might have addressed this in your book,
I haven't finished it yet,
but what do you say about someone who believes
that they have experienced God,
as real as the chair that we are both sitting in?
So they say, I've experienced God tangibly real,
like it's more real to me than reality itself.
What do you say to someone like that?
But my question would be, well,
so say you've said that to me as a Christian, right?
So just so we can role play this.
So, okay, David, what would you say
to a Muslim who says that,
who has a mutually exclusive God to yours?
Yeah, that's the classic, yeah.
That's all I have to do is point out
that you don't believe other people
having those supposedly very real experiences.
And this is, you know,
that's the issue with the existence of claims
of a personal experience of God,
is the fact that all religions throughout history and time
have had those and they're mutually exclusive.
So, you know, it's plausible that they've got it wrong.
If it's plausible, if we agree that it's plausible
that that guy's got, in fact, it's not plausible,
it's almost definite that that person's got it wrong,
then you're special pleading your own experiences.
And that's why someone like William Lane Craig
who talks about the inner witness of the Holy Spirit
as being, you know, fundamental,
but he recognises he can't use that to convince third parties.
He is at least, you know, cognisant of that.
It is good enough to convince yourself
it's not good enough to convince others.
Why is my camera keeps doing this?
I apologise, everyone, this has never happened before.
I reckon something's overheating or something's going wrong.
It's more likely that God's deciding.
That's true. Well, as I actually wanted to,
I'm going to have to fix this again,
but let me just ask you a question as I'll solve you again.
I'll go off on one.
Yeah, awesome.
You say something really interesting in the book.
You say, you and Aaron say,
we tend to agree that many theists who declare theism
in general won't be challenged by the discovery of ETIs.
So theism won't be challenged.
Yeah, and again, that goes back to the adaptability of theism
and that goes back to psychology.
We talk a lot about cognitive dissonance reduction,
just to explain for that.
I mean, most people know what this is.
We talk about it so much these days.
Cognitive dissonance is when you have a core belief
and you have evidence against that belief
and it comes into contact with that belief
and there's a dissonance, there's a disharmony.
And so the brain doesn't like disharmony
and something has to give, right?
But usually it's not the core belief.
So what happens is you either reject the evidence
that's contrary to your core belief out of hand
or you attack the person, the messenger that delivers that,
all these psychological ways of minimizing that evidence
or you adapt your core belief to the evidence
and there's some kind of synthesis there,
but essentially you are maintaining your core belief,
so on and so forth.
But what you very rarely do is accept the new evidence
and get rid of your core belief.
Sometimes it does happen, eventually it does happen,
so say for example with yourself, David,
some people get to a tipping point
and all the ducks in a row and all the psychology is in place
and things have happened such that you get to a point where you go,
yeah, actually that's untenable now,
that position is now untenable.
But that's rare.
Generally, and it's quite a big world shaker, isn't it,
for individuals, but generally people hold on,
no matter what the context they hold onto their core beliefs.
Now, when you're talking about the discovery
of intelligent alien life, however that is,
you know, even if it's aliens coming down
or being more likely from a distance,
techno signatures or whatever,
it's far more likely that theists,
even though we argue that such a discovery
would make the existence of only God less probable,
even though we are confident with the conclusions of the book,
this is where psychology takes over,
which is a core belief in God, aliens come along,
okay, it's a bit of a problem,
but we'll adapt them to our core belief.
And so cognitive distance reduction will take over
and psychology will take over
and people will end up adapting their religious beliefs
in the same way that they did when they discovered
the heavens weren't as they were in,
claimed to be in the Bible as in cosmology.
So if you look at biblical cosmology,
I don't even talk about that with Aaron
and he's probably the better person to talk to about this,
but the Bible gets it completely wrong
on biblical cosmology.
And so you've got...
Yeah, it's a change.
Yeah, it's a change the Bible says, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, so then it becomes symbolic,
but you're not giving up your core belief
that the Bible is true.
The Bible is just now, oh, it's being symbolic there.
It's like people weren't ready to understand
the truth of, you know, biblical cosmology.
And that's a load of nonsense,
but if that allows them to maintain,
I would say there are two things
that for me should lead anyone
to reject the Bible outright as a book
and not even have to go through writing bloody books
on whether the resurrection happened
or books on whether the nativity happened
or this kind of biblical exegesis
and going through the fine print, right?
You should be able to reject the Bible
out of hand on two things.
One, slavery.
I talk about this, sorry for those people
who've seen me say this before,
but Moses should have walked up Mount Sinai or Horeb,
depending on what part of the Bible you read,
should have walked up that mountain,
got the tablets, come back down,
and God should have said,
oh, yeah, this is what God says, by the way, guys.
Rule number one, slavery is bad, right?
Rule number two, it's in capitals this time, guys,
so he really means it.
Slavery is proper bad.
It's really bad.
Don't do it. Just don't do it.
Now, it doesn't matter whether people understood it or not.
God's giving you a dictat there, so don't do slavery,
but the Bible gets slavery so wrong.
It's a really very good book called Slavery Abolitionism
and the Ethics of Biblical Scholarship by Hector Avalos.
If you want to see how Christians have gone through time
trying to justify how the Bible deals with slavery,
read that book.
It's disgusting, and I think, yeah, sorry.
We did a panel on slavery with five Bible scholars at all.
It was a big panel, and we went through everything.
Yeah, we went through the exact verses.
We talked about the New Testament.
Like, this, to me, was the death of the death nail
for slavery apologetics.
Oh, I've got to watch it.
But again, no one's changed there.
People keep lying, and it is lying at this stage.
We'll keep lying about slavery in the Bible and everything like that.
What was your next thing, sorry?
Well, yeah, so slavery, it's so wrong on slavery,
but really, I mean, it's so morally wrong.
It's so obviously morally wrong.
How can you believe that that book is a moral guidebook?
It's so wrong on that I need not read the rest of it,
or need not entertain it.
So that's wrong.
And the other one, and we deal with this in our book here,
Aaron deals with it more accurately,
is biblical cosmology.
And it gets what it claims the reality of cosmology is completely wrong.
Like, the firmament, like a solid dome
where the stars are like lights in the dome.
They're not like planets or stars.
They're not as in burning balls of gas.
It gets it so wrong.
And then people end up believing that incorrect stuff for so long
that even someone like Giordano Bruno gets burned to the stake
for having a more accurate understanding of cosmology
than the Bible does.
And so therefore, if the Bible is sending you off down a wrong path,
it's not really the book to be taken seriously
that many Christians hope it is and think it is.
It's just, you know, those two subjects.
And the thing about biblical cosmology
is that either God is deceiving the reader or the Christian.
So, you know, God obviously knows that that's not how the cosmology of the universe is.
So, but this is his supposedly optimal revelation to his believers,
or her believers, or its believers.
And, you know, therefore, God is deceiving all the believers,
all the readers of the Bible, which is kind of weird
because that is lying, overtly lying, or I don't really know,
or God's got it wrong, which is obviously not going to be the case.
So, yeah, it's a real problem, I think, biblical cosmology.
I think that, you know, finding, I would have strongly disagreed with you
and Aaron about this point, you know, that if we found aliens would demolish,
you know, religions.
But I now probably agree with you guys because,
like, you look at it and you're like, you know, you look at history,
it's like, well, imagine what finding new cultures would have been like to the people,
you know, like, what do you mean God just came to us in the Middle East?
Like, there's a much bigger world out there, discovering evolution,
discovering Big Bang, discovering that we had other species of humans,
like many other species of humans.
So, there's a thought experiment that I thought up that I wanted to run by you
and it's a thought experiment, like, let's say, you know, the big thing is,
you know, a Christian apologist will say the resurrection definitely happened,
and which is probably true, but the resurrection, sorry,
the crucifixion definitely happened and the resurrection definitely happened.
Crucifixion probably happened.
The resurrection, you know, it's a miracle claim, right?
And it's not in, it's not, you see it develop over time with, you know,
Paul never mentioning it, then Mark, oh my gosh, sorry.
That's fine, just keep going.
I'm gonna solo you while I talk.
But so, you've got this, you know, you've got Paul and then you've got Mark,
you know, Mark's gospel doesn't have the disciples encounter with the resurrected Jesus,
doesn't have a birth narrative, and then as the gospels continue to develop,
they get more and more complex with the story and eventually Jesus is whizzing off into the
clouds and things like that.
So the thought experiment I had is, you know, apologists will point to these things and say,
these are historically accurate.
Well, let's say that we dig up this earliest gospel.
Let's say it's like written a few years after the events that it was supposed to have written.
It is the earliest gospel by far that we have.
Let's say this gospel, and in this gospel, it actually says, you know what,
we're going to take the body of Jesus down from the cross,
pull in the tomb, and then we're going to take the body because we don't want people to destroy
the body.
And it says it blatantly in this gospel, and it says, we've actually hidden Jesus' body at this
location, and then we go to that location, we dig it up, and we find there's a corpse in there,
and there's a sign that says, this is the body of Jesus of Nazareth, blah, blah, blah.
And it's all verified by archaeology and carbon dating and textual criticism.
Everything points to this direction.
And it's like we have the best case, like the best historical case, that Jesus existed,
died, and was buried, and his body was moved.
Let's say we can say that we found Jesus' body more accurately than we can say that anything
else happened in the New Testament.
What do you think would happen to Christianity?
Do you think Christianity would continue?
Or do you think that would be it?
Or do you think there would find a way to rationalize?
It would be a massive challenge, but I think there would be some kind of theological adaptation
that would take place because people have too much invested in their beliefs.
I mean, you would probably see a lot of people drop off.
But I think, so here's the thing.
In Resurrection, a critical examination that you saw, I'll send you this book, David,
and I have a feeling you might really like this, and I'm sorry to just span that here.
No, don't worry.
But what I talk about in this book is I do a section on motivated reasoning.
And I talk about William Lane Craig and say, well, here's someone who's written on the Resurrection
a lot. One of his books recently was on the Resurrection.
He is super important. Without the Resurrection, the belief falls apart.
But if you can show the Resurrection to be untenable as a historical claim,
then this will cause huge problems.
But the issue is for someone like William Lane Craig is when they're doing their own thinking
or defending against his criticisms, they have huge amounts of motivated reasoning.
You could argue, I have motivated reasoning, but I don't have a business empire based on
this being right or wrong. Whereas Christians have not only their worldview,
their beliefs, their whole community, their church, their family, family ties,
but someone like William Lane Craig's got a business empire.
Some people have whole churches under them that are dependent on them continuing to believe
the whole worldview or the Christian story or the truth of the Bible, so on and so forth.
So I think if you were to come up with something like that, David, as a thought experiment,
I think that's going to be one of the biggest dents in believers, in numbers of believers,
because that is a real challenge. But you would still get people that are so invested,
and I'd say financially invested, psychologically invested, sociologically invested,
in Christianity that the cost of giving that up, even in the face of overwhelming evidence,
is just too much. And so somehow they'll be able to adapt the scriptures or their theology to fit
that data. Or dismiss the data, sorry. Jordan Peterson has very much whitewashed,
not whitewashed, not the right word, sorry, but he's made it, he's made Christianity palatable.
So he's made it like, well, you ask him, do you believe in God? And he says,
it'll take me three days to answer that question. And you ask him, what is the Bible? And he goes,
well, let's get down to brass tacks about what the Bible actually says. And he views it all from
like a Jungian psychological perspective, that it's all just stories about the psychos.
And people buy into it. And they go to church and they're like, yep, Jordan Peterson's right.
Jordan Peterson is a businessman. And he knows his flock. And he knows that if he ditches though
that belief system, if he ditches Christianity, then he loses a massive portion of his audience.
In the same way that William Lane Craig, for years, did not allow criticism of the Old Testament,
the Hebrew Bible, to find purchase. He would deflect, he would often hold up in debate,
if someone asked him about the Old Testament, he would hold up a book by Paul Copa and his
God of Morrow monster. And he'd say, go and read this blah, blah, blah, blah. But he wouldn't
answer. Now, funny enough, now William Lane Craig has admitted that Adam and Eve are symbolic.
And this has caused an absolute outrage with a whole massive tranche of his supporters,
because he's getting a bit old now, he's not really so bothered, he's got a massive business
empire, it's sorted, he's done for, he's not so worried about losing that part of that flock.
And so I think these people like Jordan Peterson and or William Lane Craig are people who understand
how they answer these questions is dictated by their business model. Honestly, I really think
that is the case. Yeah, 100%. I've said this to Michael Jones is like, do you think he has
inspiring philosophy? And it's all apologetic sounds like, but do you think you can even,
like psychologically, you put so much into this channel, and so much into, you know,
this worldview, do you think that it hinders your ability to investigate? Who's Michael Jones?
Inspiring philosophy, he's a... Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. So I've said this to him, I'm like,
you know, do you think it like, it's a challenge to your beliefs? That's that's that's primary,
that's actually a big reason why I didn't want deep drinks to be like atheist drinks, you know,
or whatever, because I want to have conversations with people, I disagree with Christians,
Buddhists, Hindus, whatever, whoever, because I don't want to, I want to always be available to
investigate claims that I don't necessarily believe in. And that's, and that's kind of why I love
deep drinks. But commit to changing your position, surely. I mean, that's the point is like,
I could commit to being labeled an atheist, but actually, let's give myself some elbow room to
be able to change that if you if you provide me with deep drinks. If I get convinced by some
Buddhists, and in five years, I'm like wearing orange robes and got a shaved head, then that's
what deep drinks will be. But it's like, if it was like atheist drinks, or like, Buddha isn't real
drinks or something, like, you know, then it would, it would, it would, it would have confused
branding, I should say. So, so that's, that's part of it. It's like, I looked at apologetics
channels, and I was like, I don't think they can honestly, I think it would get in the way,
I think they could, you know, psychologically, it'd be hard for them to investigate what's
actually true, because they've invested so much into their you are there. Yeah.
100% correct. And I'm going to give you a real world and personal example of
how this happens, right? You probably know that I have, I have two YouTube channels, one of them
is a philosophy channel, a tippling philosopher. And the other one is ATP geopolitics, which is a
Ukraine war channel. And I am absolutely obsessed with the Ukraine war. And I do three videos a
day. It's now my main kind of thing that I do, right? I do three videos. Yeah. And I've, I've
interviewed Anastasia, Anastasia, you've interviewed her as well. She's an absolutely
fantastic guest. Now here's the thing, like of my American audience, which, you know,
a large proportion of my audience is American, you think of the people who are going to be
interested in war. Now I'm a lefty liberal. The people who are interested in war are generally
going to be, well, actually, it's quite a split, but there are a large contingent who are pretty
right-wing, Trump supporting people who, but who also really feel strongly for Ukraine. So not,
not all Republicans, you know, they're split amongst, you know, whether it's not everyone's
a marjorie Teta Green loving person who is like anti-Ukraine pro Russian, whatever. Anyway,
I have this YouTube channel where normally I've written so many articles against say Donald
Trump, right? And yet I know I have to be really careful when I am, when I'm talking about American
politics, because if I'm really not so much honest, it's not that I'm dishonest, but if I go down a
rabbit hole, which I'm prone to do, and absolutely go hammer and tongs at say Republican politics,
and anti-Donald Trump and all this kind of stuff, I will lose a shed load of my viewers.
And because it's not a case of me being dishonest, but it's like a case of like,
I don't need to do that here. And I've got this thing set up, and I'm just careful. Or if I,
if I'm critical, critical about Donald Trump, which I often am, I couch it in a particular way
that I say, look, if you disagree me, please, you know, put your, put your comments down in
the threads really respectfully, and we'll have a, have a, you know, and I'm just really careful
with the language I use. And that's me, someone who is, is, thinks really a lot about everything.
Okay. So, so then when you transfer this kind of idea across to someone who's
involved in Christian apologetics, to the point that where it's their entire income stream, right,
then they, they just cannot, they simply cannot abide with like,
any kind of data or, or conclusion, any data contrary to their position or conclusion that
is antithetical to their position, they just can't do it because their entire business model falls
apart. And, and, and all of their, you know, family and friends and all that kind of stuff.
So, motivated reason is massively important. I've, I have had a form of moderation of my own
channel, not a way that I'm dishonest, like I've said, but it does moderate how I couch things,
but take that times out by 10. And that is how Christian, that's a challenge Christians have
with, with dealing honestly with, with data that's contrary to their position.
Yeah, yeah, 100%. So, what would, what do you, so you talk a little bit in your book about,
about, oh my gosh, sorry, about, I've got to work out what's going on here. But you talk a lot about,
you know, other religions as well. And I haven't got to those chapters yet, but you talk about
Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, can you give us a, a, as we wrap up in the last 15 minutes here, can you
give us a quick overview of like, how would finding ETIs challenge those other belief systems?
Actually, to be honest, right? Aaron wrote those chapters, right? So, he's okay. But, but it's
basically, it's a problem for all other religions. However, there is, is it Mormonism, which I think
has, is slightly more likely to be more accepting of, of UFO, also not UFOs, of the existence of
intelligent alien life forms. And so, there is a little bit of, of a difference across the religions.
But I think it is basically, yeah, a challenge to the more to different degrees. You know,
there's so much, I mean, we've, goodness me, we've not even gone into any depth of some of the
arguments in this book. But you look at something like, I don't know, the problem of evil here.
So the problem of evil is, why is there so much evil and suffering in the world, given an all
loving or knowing, all powerful God, so God that would want to do something about it, that knows
what to do about it, and is powerful enough to do something about it. And, and you say, right,
so David, imagine that you live on in a world where stubbing your toe is the worst thing that
can happen to you. This is the most amount of suffering you can have. And now, if I was to
ask you, and I know everything's relative, but if I was to ask you, how can you explain stubbing
your toe in light of an all loving God? You'd say, it's a bit of a challenge, but, you know,
could happen for a greater good or whatever. Then imagine you live in the world that we live in
presently, which is a world where there are tsunamis, 240,000 people died in 2004.
We've got, you know, Ebola, COVID-19, genocide, all this. And I say, right, now explain that in
light of an all loving God. Would you agree that it would be more difficult to explain that second
scenario than just stubbing your toe in light of an all loving, loving God? Oh, yeah. Yeah.
So it would be, so I think that's intuitively the case that it is more difficult to explain
that amount of suffering in light of only God than that amount of suffering. Okay. Now, there's
something that we talk about a lot in the book called the Copernican principle. The Copernican
principle is that we think we're the apex of creation. But actually, if you are going to have
like billions of life forms out there, intelligent alien life forms out there,
probability would stay on a bell curve that we're more likely to sit bang in the center.
That means that there are going to be aliens out there that are far more intelligent than us,
aliens out there are far less intelligent than us. They're going to be far more moral than us,
far more in the image of God than us. Now, there's a whole section in the book that's
interesting, because actually, you know, we, we, well, we're in the image of God, or Christians
argue that actually, if they're intelligent alien life forms out there, and we've got the Copernican
principle, there are aliens out there that are more in the image of God to us than we are presently
to fish. So when we look at fish and say, well, that's not made in the image of God.
So, you know, we can dismiss fish as not being the apex or not being super important. Well,
actually, other aliens can look at us as if we are fish to them and say, well, yeah, and yet
here we are saying we're made anyway. So when you talk about the Copernican principle with
the problem of evil, there is going to be suffering, we're going to be slap bang in the
middle more likely. The probability is that we are on average, we are an average civilization for
evil and suffering. So they're going to be civilizations out there that have more suffering
than us to the orders of magnitude, right, instead of a genocide or a tsunami, there's going to be
planets that have just been extinguished or maybe even entire galaxy destroyed or whatever.
So, so when I ask you, is, is it more difficult to explain an all loving God in light of this
earthly suffering compared to stubbing your toe? Now imagine the orders of magnitude of
suffering that exists out there, that is, this to this, and no, that hypothetical to this world,
that you know, that that galaxy or that that existence out there is like that to us. And so
therefore, you then say, well, given that there is that much extra suffering out there,
surely it is that much more difficult to explain that in light of an all loving God, even more.
So in other words, when the question of the book is, is, is, is say, for example, Christian
only God more or less likely given the existence of intelligent alien life, the problem of evil
alone would suggest that only God, for example, Christian only God is less likely given the
magnitude of alien suffering that exists out there, or almost certainly exists out there.
So I don't, I didn't actually, what I did is I took your question about different religions
and then answered with something I wanted to talk about.
The problem of evil. Well, yeah, but that's the problem of evil. So it kind of makes it a whole
lot worse. But what would you say to, you know, I strongly disagree. But, but, you know, when I
had Michael Jones on of inspiring philosophy, he said, you know, he's got a, I think he's
just finished his masters in philosophy. And he said, he said, you know, that kind of the problem
of suffering kind of presupposes a form of ethics that is like a utilitarian perspective of ethics,
but say that, that what ethics really is, is like virtue ethics and things like that. And, and he
says that, that suffering doesn't, if you take in the whole worldview of Christianity, suffering
doesn't, like, they're going to a better place, essentially. So people who die in like a landslide,
they're going to a better place. So therefore, you know, and this time is like nothing is suffering
is nothing compared to, you know, the heaven. And he kind of believes the CS laws take that,
you know, the gates of hell a lock from the inside, that it's like people are in hell,
the only people who want, the only people who want to be there. And so essentially heavens filled
everyone. He said, like, Dan Barker, who's written the forward of your book, he said,
he'd be in hell because he told, he told, you know, he said that when he meets God, he'll beg,
he'll tell God to beg for his forgiveness and tell him to f off on the walk away, you know.
And it's like, well, he's like, so that would be someone Michael says, that would be someone who'd
be you would choose to go to hell because he and choose to lock the doors from the inside.
He said, but yeah, if you take in the whole worldview of Christianity and you look at
morality, morality as like virtue ethics, then you it's fine. It's okay that there's landslides and,
you know, starving children and I mean, that sounds pretty consequentialist to me or utilitarian,
which is like the the morality is based on the consequences of a given action. Well, if you
talk about what it's all going to be all right in heaven, that's almost like punting to a consequence,
you know, ultimate consequence. But I there's an argument I often use and in fact, it's in the
30 arguments book, which is that heaven isn't justification moral justification, it's compensation.
So you're gonna be really careful. And I talked about this with Joe Smith and it does take some
a bit of refining. But if if you are the sort of apologist that says it's any kind of evil is
permitted or any kind of suffering is permitted, because it's all okay, it's going to be fine in
heaven. There is there is an argument to be made that that that is not about moral justification,
heaven is compensation. So if I was to walk up to you, David and punch you full in the face and
break your jaw, that's morally apparent for no reason, right? It's morally apparent, right? Let's
assume that we all agree on that no matter what your ethical position is. Let's say that's morally
horrible, right? And then I say, okay, mate, well, here's $10,000. Now, me compensating you for that,
so I'm really sorry, it's like, you know, what what I've done has caused you this kind of problem,
here's $10,000. Now, that paying you $10,000, or if an insurance company did it, right,
doesn't make what I originally did a good action. It doesn't turn the breaking your jaw
into a good thing. The only way it can change that into a good thing is if you adopt strict
moral consequentialism. Indeed, you know, that's the only way it can become a good action that I
punch you in the face. If you go to a particular flavor of consequentialism, that that that kind
of talks to. So when you talk about heaven as morally justifying any kind of evil or suffering
that goes on on earth, that is basically saying it's all all right, we're going to pay you about
$10,000 at the end. In other words, it's not it's not so if you talk this really common thing is like
babies died of cancer, right, the age of like two months, you say, it's okay, the Christian says
it's okay, they'll live for eternity in heaven. That is not a justification of that happening.
That is a compensation for that happening. Do you understand what I'm saying? Yeah, yeah. So
my my argument there is that would be to Michael Jones would be that that appears to be a compensation.
And if you saying it is a moral justification, you are indeed yourself using consequentialism.
And a problem with using consequentialism is not problem for secular people or non religious
people. But the problem for religious people is that you don't need a God for moral consequentialism
to work as a moral value system. And that's why they don't like it. William Nane Craig calls it
a terrible ethic. Interesting. Is it is there a type of see working? Welcome back to reality.
I'll see how long this last four. Is there a type of morality that you could see working?
No. So I talk, you mentioned this book. This is my three books ago book. This is called Why I Am
Atheist and Not A Theist. You see why I did that? That's a clever one. How to do knowledge,
meaning and morality in the Godless world. And what I seek to do here is build up my world view
from the bottom up, which is looking at what are abstract objects, do the philosophy right the basis
of reality, and then work up through all these different stages, you know, through theology,
natural theology, epistemology, and then work towards, you know, morality and then whether
God exists or not. So ontology, epistemology, natural theology, theology, theology, morality,
and then atheism, right? But it's like putting all these bricks in place and then working up
to the conclusion rather than starting with a conclusion and working back, which is what people
do with the Bible. So this is true. And I'm going to work my way back. No, let's sod that.
What do we understand about reality, about ontology, about existence, and let's build up from there.
And wherever this goes, that's where I'm going to, that's what I'm going to believe. I'm going to,
I'm going to build my belief system up, rather than start with the conclusion and build backwards,
because that just becomes a castle in the air. But with that, like, when you look at, like,
the Phil Papers study, the survey of philosophers, right, done in 2009, 2020,
you know, and analysis what professional philosophers believe across the world,
and you ask, you know, what's your understanding of morality? After 3000 years of moral philosophy,
they still don't agree. So everyone split, like, broadly three ways, deontology,
consequentialism, and virtue ethics, and then other and whatever. But the point is that no
moral value system is perfect. No moral value system works really, really well. Otherwise,
we'd all believe it, right? All philosophers would believe it. But no one does. No one agrees,
still no one agrees. In other words, my opinion is, and this would take about another hour to
talk about, but my opinion is that morality doesn't exist out there, right? Not in the ether. It's not
like, and even if it did exist out there, how would we know we've got it right? I talk about an
epistemic barrier between us and, say, the moral laws, to say there are these moral laws in the
ether, right? Well, how do you know you got it right? You don't. So there's no difference between
that existing out there and not existing, right? You still have to construct it yourself. So in
other words, morality is constructed in our own minds. And when we agree with each other, and we
do lots of philosophizing, and we argue with each other, we have podcasts, and we write books, and
we go down the pub and have a pint and say, you're wrong. No, you're wrong. We argue about politics,
which is morality. That's what we're doing. We're arguing about morality. We all have different
ideas. And when we agree with each other, or first of all, when everyone agrees, they write
encyclopedias. Or in terms of morality, when we agree on morality, what we do is we say,
right, that's brilliant, you agree, you agree, okay, let's start a political party, or let's
vote for the party that most reflects our views, or let's embody this in a law, and then we'll
vote for the party that best reflects that law, is going to enact that law, so on and so forth.
But someone else can come along and change that law, so on and so forth. These rules and
morality and laws, moral laws, don't exist out there. They exist in here. And our job is to try
and agree on them, and have a democratic political system, whereby we can enact that across society
for the benefit of us all. Or if you have incorrect, in my view, incorrect morality, or not so cool
morality as I do, then you'll try and enact rules that are not beneficial, you know, so on and so
forth. I'm trying to summarize, like, a book's worth of thinking. Yeah. Well, I'd love to,
we should have a conversation about morality, because I kind of take the position that
this is going to make so many people cringe. I know this isn't the most philosophers who study
morality disagree with me, but I'm kind of a moral anti-realist, in some way. I am. I am.
Yeah, yeah, because it's like, I just, I feel like people just operate within their preferences.
And like, part of those preferences are like, maybe the society you grow up in,
you know, maybe the traditions you were taught, things like that. But I just don't think there's
like, somewhere we can point to in the universe and say, there, that is what morality is.
The only way you could do that, the only, I've had a conversation at a podcast with
Eneson Green, and he's a moral realist, but it's dependent on the ontology of logic. So if you
think that logic exists as a fabric of the universe almost, then you can, you can get to a kind of
substrate, maybe where you can get to a position where morality exists out there kind of more.
But again, I still think there's that epistemic barrier between you and accessing that.
So it's kind of, yeah, 100%. Well, we're kind of almost at time here, but I want to just shout
out the book is linked in the description as well as tagged in the chat. So if you want to
check it out, definitely recommend it. It's awesome as well as your other books as well.
But it's just, it's just, it's great. It's great stuff. It's an, it's a, it's an enjoyable read.
It's not too complicated, but it's not too basic either. It's a good book. And of course,
your other book as well. Your podcast with Aaron Adair, my co-author, was absolutely fab as well.
It really, really was a delight. Yeah, that's a fun episode. I felt like I was on the edge of my
reasoning with that one because I was really challenged with the science, but Aaron did a
really great job at explaining everything. He's great. Amazing. And of course, his book as well,
Check Out the Star of Bethlehem is a skeptical view, which is, I'll just shout out that book as well.
If you, if you go back to 30 arguments, I just want to reference someone else in a live chat
mentioned she, her, when I, when I think in reference to me talking about God and he.
So in that book, right, and I talk about this in the, in the intro or the four, not the forward,
I didn't write the forward Dan Barker at the forward and he's awesome. In the intro, I talked
about how I use it to, to refer to God, right? Because actually God, I'm talking about God being
this abstract, omnigod, all loving, all powerful, all knowing this thing that exists out there rather
than on this world as a corporeal entity. And therefore God doesn't have a gender. God doesn't
have a sex. So therefore God is just an it. God is this abstract kind of mind like thing.
But actually most of the attributes we would give to personhood, God wouldn't be able to have
existing outside of time and all these kinds of things. Anyway,
I don't want to get into other arguments in the book, but no, no. And that's something,
sorry, what were you saying? I was just going to say, I wrote the book trying to use the pronoun
it for God. Yeah. When you always use he for God. And I tell you, it was bloody hard. And I think
there's still a couple of he's in there, just like tucked away that I just couldn't find.
It's just so difficult to move away from saying he, he, he with, with reference to God,
instead of it, but it should be it. Anyway, sorry. You know, you've, you've got
Professor Francesca Stapley, like a police book behind you got an anatomy where God, you know,
historically was a male, you know, male physical, yeah, physical body. But you said something that,
that in your book 30 arguments that I just thought was so poetically put,
time hasn't so much ravaged God's body as physically, philosophically eliminated it.
And I was like, damn, that, that, that one where that was almost, because I'm not sure if you saw
I put one of your quotes in the start in the intro video. I love that quote. Yeah, it's really,
I didn't get to the end of it. I was like, sometimes, you know, because I don't believe in the
continuous eye, right? I'm a different person than I was five minutes ago, let alone 10 years.
Sometimes I read back stuff I've written, and it's like reading a different human being, right?
You're like, well, and then sometimes I read stuff and like, this is going to sound really
conceited, right? But sometimes I read stuff and I go, fuck, that was good. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And sometimes I read stuff where I go, holy crap, that was bad. And that's bad grammar. But sometimes
you're like, yeah, I like that. But anyway, sorry. Yeah. So this was the quote, a perfect creator
as God must be would surely choose to create, create perfectly. But we are here, good old humans
on good old earth is good old tsunamis and malaria in this good old universe with this good old
supposed heat death and good old life sucking black holes. This universe is a perfect creation.
And I just I like it. I don't do that all the time. But sometimes if I find a quote that just
really speaks to me, I'll re edit an intro and stick it in there. And but yeah, so,
so much, you know, thank you so much, Jonathan, for coming on. Well, I'll have to have you on again
next time. And I'll make sure that I can drink. I didn't I didn't think you
you know, you Brits could handle your liquor. So I just was like, we're just gonna have
a little bit. So, David, David, David, where the convicts made where the convicts down here
was sent down. Yeah, this is fighting talk, my friend. This is fighting talk. So
I'll rack them and stack them ready. And we'll go hard, man, we'll go. Yeah, I think we should
have a discussion on morality, or I should convince Michael Jones to come debate your
morality on deep drinks or something. It'd be interesting. Do you know what is quite nice
sometimes is just talking, maybe have some questions just just backed up but almost like
going around the houses and having these discussions that go like wherever they go.
And yeah, touching on many, many sort of subjects. I just, you know, like we've had
tonight, which is yeah, we've loosely talked about different areas of the books, but it's
just nice having a wine in the chat. Well, that's so the so so it depends on what guest I have.
But sometimes with I know if I have Neil on not conforming or Derek, I just didn't have
a few dot points because they just talk and we just as natural. Some guests though, I'm like
15 minutes in and I'm already at like halfway through the notes are like, Oh,
shit, what are we going to talk about? Like, because like, we're just not flowing when it's
not connecting. And but with you, I can just I can tell it's an easy so next time I'll make
sure I bring a few things I want to talk about and then we'll just kind of go go go over it.
I mean, the sad sad state of affairs here, mate, is that I've got to finish this bottom
of one on my own now. I mean, my partner's gone to bed. You're going to work. I'm just going to
sit here twiddling my thumbs. Well, well, yeah, I've got to go to work. So thank you for coming
on. I really appreciate it. And look forward to seeing you in an upcoming episode and some more
stuff that we're doing on Deep Drinks. And I'll see you guys later. Bye. Yeah, thank you so much.
We'd love it.
