You know, Derek is the creator and host of MythVision Podcast.
He interviews all the Bible scholars.
Literally, I don't know if there's a Bible scholar on this planet that isn't going to
at least one day be on his channel.
And he has released a super popular documentary, The Real God of the Bible.
And it is amazing.
And we're going to be talking about today, welcome Derek Lambert of MythVision Podcast.
What's up, brother?
So initially, initially, this was called The Derek Knows Everything Christmas Special.
And it still is in my heart of hearts.
I told you, I don't like that name.
I really don't because it's already people who do think that about me.
They really do think, oh, Derek thinks she knows everything.
And no, I am enthusiastic.
And I think that that comes off, of course, and people know that.
The more you know, the more you realize how little you know.
So.
Well, that's the joke, right?
Because I didn't think anyone would think that you think that you know everything.
Obviously, you just interview a lot of Bible scholars.
It's just the amount of people that you interview and the amount of people that the amount of
the content that you like dive into is just insane.
Like you're almost doing like a PhD level, like, well, you're not submitting assignments
or anything, but you're just, you're just in it.
You're just constantly in it.
You talk to anyone who's doing a PhD, and they're just like, they're consumed by it.
And you've been consumed by an incredibly wide range of ideas.
And you're not an expert, obviously, nor am I.
But you get a broad perspective.
And so when I was calling it, that Derek knows everything Christmas special.
It's like, what does Derek learn this year?
Like what is like, has his perspective changed as a, like, and I guess a lot of people don't
understand the humor behind that, but it's, I guess it's an Australian type of humor.
But no, you don't know everything, but we're calling it the Dirk knows everything special
Christmas special.
So we can learn what you've known this year.
Glam David.
Glam David.
Last year I told everyone that it was your idea and you're like, no, it's not my idea.
Yeah, it's not.
So first of all, you've released this amazing documentary, The Real God of the Bible.
Can you just tell people quickly why, why did you release this and like, why it's blown
up?
Like you've got like, what, 250,000 or 220,000 views in like four days or something?
Yeah, almost 300,000 now.
And I did it because let's be honest, right?
No one knows about this.
And I'm not saying no one, but it is not the most commonly understood perspective about
the God of the Bible and many atheists who are engaging and I'm gonna be atheist, agnostic
theist anyone really, I just use atheists because technically I am one.
And so, you know, there's the community of people who are engaging with Christians,
they enter the arena arguing using the conception of God that they already have in their mind
and it's anachronistic.
So it is not going back to the ancient roots and cultural historical context of this deity.
And if we started doing that, not only would we be more sophisticated and understanding
the human plight and how the human mind may have tried to wrap their mind around reality
and the world we observe around us and then give attributes or give anthropomorphic phenomena,
like give the natural phenomena anthropomorphic attributes that are like human, but much greater
because no human can send a thunderbolt down from the sky.
No human can make the volcano erupt or earthquake or water split or whatever, you know, you
might be conceiving of snow from heaven, you name it, we see what Job, right?
But a God can.
And I figure, you know, the most I'd say one of the best books I've ever read on this
was God and Anatomy by Francesca Stavrakapulu.
Oh, I got a signed copy.
I got a sign.
I paid all my pocket money to get a signed copy all the way from UK.
That's awesome.
She's amazing.
It's amazing.
She's controversial.
She just goes and says what she thinks and she backs it up.
There's so many sources and this isn't even an academic book.
This is a popular book and it's got the sources from Ugaritic texts to just tons and tons
of like comparative ancient Near Eastern deities and then of course lots of Bible stuff and
even the way that she translates, she'll tell you like, hey, this is a translation by this
scholar, this scholar, this scholar, if you go down into the actual, well, it's not, she
doesn't have like a footnotes on the page, but when you go to the back, is it notes or
index, bibliography, maybe it's not the, yeah, I think it is in the bibliography.
That's the most massive section that I don't think it's index.
Yeah.
Is her bibliography as big as Dr. Josh Bowens in, did the Old Testament endorse slavery?
Because that thing, well, that thing is enormous, enormous, I see either Josh or me even in
the chat digital, I'm rather be so, I thought I'd give you a shout out.
There's, there's also what I appreciate about Dr. as Derek leaves the stream, what I appreciate
about Dr. Francis Apollo is she uses this Bible here, oh my gosh, that there, it's like that
big thing there is the Hebrew Bible as translated by Dr. Robert Alter and she uses some of his
translations or commentary and it's really profound, it's kind of saying a similar thing.
She mentions, I looked up the reference and he's talking about when God rested on the,
on the sixth day, on the seventh day, sorry, he was, it was because he was running out of puff,
like he was exhausted. He was like, yeah, yeah. And that's what Robert Alter was saying.
And I'm just like, this is, this is wild. Yeah.
This is a much bigger edition than this one. For those of you, I mean, it's a lot.
I've only got a little edition at the moment, but I'm getting going to get the big edition
eventually. But look at that thing. Look at that thing.
My wife's thrown it at me a couple of times and it's, it works. Let me tell you, it works.
I've been to the hospital, brain damage and all. So if you're looking for a weapon.
Well, let me ask, let me ask you something, Derek, is you said that you're an atheist.
Is there anything, this is a question I had for later, but I'll ask it now. Is there anything
this year that you've discovered that may have like softened your atheism a little bit,
harmed it a little bit? Well, I use those words, but you know, do you know what I mean?
Like it's, are you more, are you less confident in your lack of belief?
Have any apologists come at you when, when Cameron Batuzzi says, by the way,
God is perfect. Are you like then now convinced that God is now perfect? Like,
has any apologists hit you with anything that you're like,
they could might be something to this.
Honestly, so I'm not fluffing. This is honestly, we could, we could be talking on the phone. As
you know, sometimes I pick up the phone and I'm in a bath and you're taking a bath with me.
David takes baths with me in case anyone's ever, like,
you ever call me when I'm not in the bath. So it's so weak. Cause like,
all of a sudden I hear Ryan's voice and Ryan's in the bath with you. She's just on the other side.
We're all taking a bath. Okay. And it's slip and slide. We're having fun. Okay. But on a serious
note, no apologist has ever got me on Jesus. Anything biblical has ever swayed me or persuaded me.
The only reason that occasionally I wouldn't even call it like as if I am now considering
theism. It's really, I don't know. Let me put it like this. Humans as far back as we have recorded
prehistory have perceived these entities, deities, beings, et cetera, and have tried to model their
world, their perception, reality, everything that we would consider from politics to how you wipe your
butt to literally everything. We are pattern seeking creatures. And so I look at all of this and I go,
okay, every single one of them, every single model is man made, human, constructed, not divine.
That does not rule out that there couldn't be something behind or somehow there's something
that me and my, my risen primate on this planet perception just cannot perceive. So I do have
that kind of like, hey, I don't know everything. We talked about this at the beginning of this
episode, right? I don't know everything. But based on when they say, do you believe in God,
or do you think there's a God? And I look at all the models of God as we've understood them.
I'm not convinced any of them exist. At the best you have is trying to equate God with nature.
And then it's just like, because then you have to go, all right, you have randomness and selection
taking place with evolution. And you're going, okay, why are things selecting things? We can
all explain those naturally. But is there some mind, something metaphysically that causes
nature in the universe to be the way that it is? And it's not Yahweh, and it's not L,
and it's not Jesus, and it's not Buddha, and it's not, you get what I'm saying. So these are human
things. And so I don't know that answer. And so that's the only thing that I could say ever does,
but it's never an apologist. Usually they're doing things in a way, and not every one of them, but
I just can't get over how I feel. There's so much dishonesty. They're driven not to get to the answer.
They're driven to give you an answer. They want an answer, and they're working toward making sure
that answer is good. And everyone's on the same page. Hallelujah. All right. Tied, baby. Like,
I know that experience of trying to make things true. And now I'm looking at actual scholars who
are going, you know, let's be fair. What do you mean fair, Francesca? What do you mean, Dr.
Stavrikapulu? What I mean is, is we're dealing with a God in the Bronze Age. And this God in the
Bronze Age is just so happens to be in the same region of the world that God's in Egypt,
that God's in Ugarit, that God's in Mesopotamia, that God's all around here. Walk, talk, have sex,
have kids, create with sex, all this stuff. And so we're going to get this God and we're supposed
to have him some post-plotonic ultimate source of good outside space and time. That's absurd. That
is not being honest with the data. We have to admit that's a later idea thanks to Plato and
those within the Greek world impacting it. And so now we have a different perception of God and
Stoicism and Platonism in Christianity and the different various pagan cults and whatnot and
philosophies that were going on ended up shaping the idea of God that we eventually knell down.
And that's just the honest truth. If they want to say in some way I can imagine a sophisticated
theist going, our perception of the divine has also evolved over time. It just, you'd have to
have a very loose interpretive model about God and like the text can't be too serious about really,
it's just humans in antiquity trying to understand it. And really, you might as well go so far as
to say every culture is trying to describe it and one might have masculine, one might say it's
feminine, one might have both male and female and they're just trying to understand it,
but there's something behind it all. Okay. Well, I know I'm interviewing Kyla,
not so erudite in a couple of days, who is a Christian, but she's a very strange type of
Christian from my perspective, where it's exactly what it seems to be. She's very smart
and she's got a lot of faith. So it seems to me the way that she builds her worldview doesn't make
any sense to me. So I'm looking forward to that conversation immensely because I just can't wait
to, where do you draw the line between fact and fiction like Noah's Ark or what's the,
I think you quoted it in your documentary or maybe you didn't, but three days was Jonah in the
Valley of the Whale. So three days was Jesus in the Valley of the Earth. It's like, well,
do Christians believe that Jonah was literally in the Valley of a fish? Because if they don't,
if they go, no, he wasn't, then it's like, well, then hang on, well, then the verse is saying,
just as Jonah was in the fish. So you're saying that Jesus didn't, or is that like,
where do you draw the line? This seems very ambiguous. It seems like you're just kind of
picking and choosing. And that's interesting to me because I don't think someone like Kyla,
not Seridite, is a bad faith actor at all. I think I really believe what they...
I'm not saying people believe. I'm saying, an apologist, they're defending something. That
means they think something is true. And most of them have not honestly taken that naked approach
of investigating, like comparing it in the actual context that it exists. They have started with
their answer, and then they are working overtime to get to their conclusion. That's what most
apologists are doing. There's an analogy I thought of at one stage. It's like, if you walk into a car,
a car lot, the salesman there is never not going to convince you to get in the car. They're not
going to be like, you know what? You don't need a car. You're probably right with the car you have.
They're always going to convince you. You don't like this car? What about this car? You don't
like this car? What about this car? And they're always going to find, do you like the Clam cosmological
argument? You don't like that one, brother? It's a teleological argument. What about the
argument from Divine Hiddenness? That doesn't work. They're going to just be presenting ideas over
and over again until they get one that's six. But their goal isn't truth. Their goal isn't to find
out whether or not you need a car. Their goal is to find, is to get you in a car. That's the goal.
And so they use, they have booklets on how to be the best salesperson. They've got meetings
on how to be the best salespeople. They've got, you know, and they do everything they can. And
that's, I also view apologetics like, like that. Right. But let's go right back. So I want to like
go right into your documentary. You start the documentary is like with the title,
Dissecting the Divine. That's one of the first chapters. Right. Is it dissecting, dissecting?
Yeah, I think it's dissecting the Divine. Yeah, just for me fun. And I want to first like,
just pump the brakes and, and just say like, where does God come from? Because we have this and
I'm still confused. I've read the book. I've watched your documentary. I'm not the smartest man,
but I know what love is. I, you know, like, I, that's a Forrest Gump reference. But where,
from a consensus perspective, from a, from a biblical historical perspective, not like a
theological Christian, like trying to make the worldview work perspective, but like
history, from that perspective, where does like the God of it, what does Yahweh come from?
You mentioned, you know, maybe comes from Ellen, like just, just tell us a little bit about.
So this is a, that question is debated where Yahweh comes from. Most scholars consensus say
from the South somewhere, they would say probably Midian, that from the Midianite people,
potentially even Egypt. I've even heard some scholars say Yah is an Egyptian God. I mean,
we're talking thousands of years BC. And so is this some Egyptian deity that found his wake? I mean,
remember Egypt ruled this territory in that period, Bronze Age collapse, Egypt collapses.
We have the Exodus narrative, the whole nine, all this stuff that takes place
approximately in this period. So, you know, I don't know the answer to that.
El is an Ugaritic deity from the Levant. So Ugarit, you can, we have tablet, we have actual
clay tablets, like not copies of papyri that existed for centuries later after, and we have to
speculate and hypothesize. And we have the tablets from Rashamra in places of Ugarit
that actually describe El. And he's very human-like, like all the other gods. In fact,
you weren't going to find gods that weren't like having anthropomorphic traits. They may even have
animalistic characteristics, but they were very down to earth, flesh and bone, physical,
but they were bigger, better than the humans. And you even see some of this stuff carry on
into the Greek world where the old story of Odysseus, right? They're traveling, a goddess
takes him to an island. She practically, for all intents and purposes, rapes him because she's like
wanting Odysseus, but he doesn't want her back. Now, he still does the do, but he doesn't desire
her. He desires his wife and kids at home, and she makes a comment. So a lot of times,
you can understand the context of things by the details in the story. Even if it is myth,
the story tells you something about how the humans who wrote it perceive the deities.
And she says something like, you know, am I not beautiful? Goddesses are more beautiful than any
mortal woman. So she knows she's more beautiful than Penelope, that any woman on earth, the goddesses
are prettier. The gods are way hotter, way more handsome. They look way better than the regular
mortals. They're way stronger. So it's like a human multiplied that human times 10, 20, right?
Size, strength, the power that they have. And this is pretty much what you get. When you go back,
you find anthropomorphic deities that are very human-like. And what I love about Francesca's
book, she says it, and she's like, we're not reading this off mythical tablets. And she uses
the term mythical because everyone who, if you bring this out to an apologist or someone who
might be contentious toward this, or people of a faith, oh, mess of Athanian stuff, come on,
Aya, Inky, that's all mythical stuff. Yeah, Garrett, go get the Rashama tablets. Oh, that's
all mythical. Egyptian inscriptions, do I need to go into that? We've seen the half-animal,
half-deity, strange creatures and stuff, and boner gods and the whole nine, right? I mean,
it's there. I love me a boner god. I had to bring up boner because we're going to cover
something. It's got to happen. It's like a whole footnote in my notes. It says God's dick. That's
what it says. I felt a little bit like, at first, I was like, okay, I am an adult and you aren't
adult. So how big is God's dick? I mean, that's pretty much how the conversation went. And she's
just like, it's enormous. And I'm like, okay, let's get into it. Okay, well, I just want to make
the point here. And she brings this up and dissecting the divine. I think I'm pronouncing
this right. Xenophonies is an old philosopher in Greece who pretty much made this statement
something of the effect. And I've heard that the source has been changed when people were
copying or saying this is what Xenophonies said. But it's something like this. If horses could draw
images of their gods, their gods would look like horses. If dogs could draw images of their gods,
their gods would look like dogs. Can we not at least see how ironic it is that the gods look
like the humans who are telling you about them? And nobody pauses for one second with common sense
and really asks the question, is it possible that the gods are actually made in the image of the
people and not the other way around? The more I think about this, the more wild this is. And I
think I was talking to my beautiful mother about this very thing. And she's in the process of kind
of looking at everything. She was a very strong faithful woman for a long time. And she's been
watching Deep Drinks and I've corrupted her soul. But no, but we've been looking at this and
we're talking about this. But it's like, think about this, an all-powerful, as all-powerful,
all-knowing, all-loving God who gets angry, who gets jealous, who feels hatred, who feels love,
who thinks about things. What would God have to think about if he knows everything?
Smells things, creates things. These are all things that are very human. That's just describing
a human. And it goes even further into this. It's like, God has a son. We'll go into this,
but if God has a son, how did he have that son? Does he need a wife? If we're made in God's image
and we need a partner to make children, back to Elle. Is this Elle? So I've seen this image
pop up a lot. Yes, that's Elle. Okay. And so Elle, when did, so did Elle get it kind of adopted by
the Israelites? I would say that the Israelites are Canaanites and Canaanites who are from the region
of Ugarit. I mean, not all Israelites may have been Canaanites, but whoever adopted becoming
an Israelite or joining the Israelites as however that happened. And there are various theories that
are really good, interesting ones on how Israel formed. But from this region, you can go ahead
and bank on it that Elle was the primary chief deity of these people who already existed in this
region at this time. And so that's why the name continues. Some want to try and like chalk it up
to it's just a title. I'm not saying that it hasn't been used in that way, but no, this is an actual
God whose name was Elle. But this, so this, look, look carefully, notice something go all the way
down. Look, I want you to pay some notice his feet. What's he wearing? Sandals. Sandals. Most people
have no clue, but I even showed in that documentary something from her book, which she has, I think
she has images in the actual book, but in the documentary about the sandals, the feet of the
Pharaoh Tutankhamun, I think it was, who conquered the people and they show his sandals. I show them
in the documentary. Yeah, they're here. It's a pair of, oops, a pair of Tutankhamun ceremonial
sandals manifesting the king's power to trample his opponents using conventional visual motifs.
The insoles depict the trusted bodies of the trust up bodies of Egypt's traditional foreign
enemies framed top and bottom by their dis, disabled war bows. And I mean, they, the God
crushes the enemy under foot. The enemy is their footstool. All of that language is anthropomorphic.
Real kings, real human kings really trampled on the enemy and they considered that crushing
them under their feet. And so did the gods. So there's so many. Is this, could someone technically
argue in some weird way that this is one of the first images of God? Yes. Of the God of the Bible.
I mean, it's one of the oldest existing, I guess you'd say images that we would have. I'm not sure
it's the oldest, but it's one of them that is actually showing you a visualization of El
along with several other models like this. I mean, there are some that look like this. I'm not sure
about their datings, but yeah, this is like the oldest examples that you can show.
Someone mentioned that it looks like Elf on the shelf. And it's like,
This is exactly what I said to Megan Lewis when she was on with me and me and Josh Joshua Bowen.
I was like, they feel like they're playing dolls. And there is some truth to that.
I wonder if, yeah, I wonder how many of these world religions and ideas and philosophies start as
literally as small as dolls. I mean, I wonder, or just like a bedtime story that Dad told
when we're around the fire. I wonder how many start that way. Do you know what I mean?
Yeah, I don't know. I imagine it wasn't just made up. I think that if we look at things
naturally as humans, look at examples of like auguring in Rome. Birds fly in a certain direction.
And the human has a superstition that if the birds go that way, then the next three months
are going to be bad. Or if the birds go this way, like we, we connect patterns that don't exist in
ways. And I imagine how these deities and their systems arise and the way that humans construct
is modeled off the human perception, the human existence and how we experience things. So
it just so happens. Even today, as advanced as we like to think we are, no matter who they are,
someone might go, I'm being dealt a horrible hand in life right now. Well, they might go speak to a
shaman in South America. They might go and talk to some palm reir, or they might actually go to
church and ask God, what is it? Like, I think that the human has always tried to get to the unknown
and the much bigger than them and not understanding what this is and kind of the God of the gaps idea,
like in trying to seek out something there. And so this is my personal thoughts. And I think that
many other people who are naturalist like me would say the evolution started gradual and it started
from ways of like assuming things are in the bushes there. Or why, why is there lightning in the clouds?
Or people aren't going to ask, where do you go when you die? Because humans naturally, when they
die, one of the most common things is they hear or experience their loved one and they've been
gone for years or months. So how do you explain that they heard them or they might even see them,
either hallucinating or in a dream, which I would consider a form of hallucinating. And so
they're experiencing their loved one and they go, they're alive. I just experienced them. I
just woke up and talked to mom and I can relate to that. That's another reason why as an atheist,
I'm not like so bashing because I can, I love my mom and I want to be able to say,
I told my mom, one day you're going to be gone, mom, and I'm going to be talking to you.
And I know you're not going to be talking back, but I'm going to be talking to you. You were
important to me. And so it'll be irrational, but it's okay because you're my mom.
It's amazing how we can know it's irrational, but it can still cause comfort. This is,
this is super weird, but like I've been anxious a little while ago. I was anxious and I asked
chat GPT. I was like, this is what I'm anxious about. Comfort me. And it comforted me. I read
what it said. I knew it was from a machine. And I was like, you know what, that actually makes me
feel a lot better. Thank you. And I went to sleep. And I was like, I knew it was like just a machine.
It's just irrational. Like, but it made me feel better. Like, and it was, it's, it's crazy. Like,
it's, it's really crazy that we can know that we did, but our emotions and our intellect are very
separate. I feel like they're like two parts of the brain. So going back to L, L gets developed,
gets developed into, into, into the picture of the, and when does Yahweh like kind of
pop up from there? Like, where, where, where did we first hear about Yahweh? Where does Yahweh
come from? Well, that's the, that's the debate. Is this the same God as the one from Egypt named Yah?
Is this because we hear of yahoo, we hear of yah, something to that effect. I'm pronouncing it how
I've been told and how I've heard it, but I'm sure there are several other ways to try and pronounce
this. We eventually in the Greek see how they translate it and they say Yahweh or Yahweh or
Yahweh, something to that effect. But this God, wherever they came from, whether Midian, Egypt,
somewhere in the South, could have been Arabia, for all we know, has been, I guess you'd say, somehow
involved or in, in, has been absorbed into the Pantheon at Ugarit, this deity named El,
that has 70 sons and his wife was named Asherah, or at that time it wasn't Asherah. Her name was
Atherat and it become, which is the etymological like root to Asherah is what I'm hearing in the
book. And if it's not etymological, it's definitely linguistically tied to it. So I think it's
etymological though. I'm not the linguist expert. I'm just reading it based on the scholars.
I'll call Matmonger up. Yeah, if he was here, he'd be able to correct me or Joshua Bowen or
Kip Davis, they might actually know this better than like, at least be able to, but they know
I'm on the right track here. And this God and his wife, who's also kind of depicted in the
Ugaritic material as also a ruler of the heavens and the cosmos, she also rules over the waters.
Now, what do you mean waters? Like waters were well established to be chaotic and to be, you know,
the dragon, the serpent and not Satan, which later becomes how we view, you know, the serpent,
the actual chaos dragon Tiamat, right? What the Genesis demythologized word is to home, the deep.
That chaos dragon, she ruled over it as well and conquered in Ugarit, along with L and they
have children and Yahweh ends up being one of those sons. And we have that in Deuteronomy 32.
In the Bible, we have El-Yan, the most high, when he apportioned the nations, dividing them up,
pretty much giving a deity, one of his sons, rulership over the 70 nations, one for each.
He gave Israel as an inheritance to Yahweh. So Yahweh was one of the lesser gods who
received this people called Israel. And that is spelled out in Deuteronomy. It's without a doubt.
And it's polytheistic. No matter what Michael Heiser and then want to try and tell you that it's
not, yes, all of these deities play a role and it just shows how polytheistic it was. There's
several people who've written tons on this, but it eventually moves towards something like a
henotheistic worldview. But what's the major difference? I'm saying, if you're saying polytheism
is all gods are equal on the same level, well, no. Obviously, there's a chief deity. If that's the
case, then Mesopotamia is not polytheistic, but we know it is. And so there are different
ranking deities above others and lesser deities. And this is the biblical worldview.
It used to always interest me when I was back in church that the Bible says,
you know, those who talk to the dead or those who try and talk to the dead or like they forbid
talking to the dead, as if you can actually talk to the dead. And like the, or, you know,
I shall have no other gods before me, not idols or not like statues of things that aren't real,
but gods. The Bible seems to argue, at least in the early, in the early scriptures, that other
gods actually do exist. But they're just so, but I don't get that from a Christian church these
days. There's one true God and every other God isn't just like not real, you know, like or not,
like just fake, you know, but the Bible seems, yeah. Can you talk a little bit about that?
Because the Bible seems to move from polytheism to a monotheism perspective. Well, actually,
it starts pretty monotheistic, but it's got its roots in polytheism. But can you talk a little
bit about that, that gradient? Well, I would say there are places where it is clearly
Hino polytheism. I mean, with the chief deity, just like Marduk was the chief deity and other gods.
And that polytheism or Hino theism ends up eventually becoming to certain scribes later,
a way to push out these other gods from view, or even make these lesser gods into other things
like angels or trying to remove deities. In one place, it almost sounds like there's only one god,
and it is our God, and all the other gods are fake. People have interpreted these things this way.
So there's this transition between what we would call Hino theism to pure monotheism,
and there are no other deities. But the problem with that is even the New Testament
has at least the worldview open to having the other deities there. Paul even has demons, right?
These lesser gods that are ruling this world, even Ephesians, hence the ruler of this world
is Satan. Now, this is by the time, late Second Temple Judaism, by this time Satan,
Azazel, various demons have become the Satan, the serpent. They've kind of fused chaos and the devil
and made this evil become this ruler, Satan. That still keeps evolving down into the Christian age,
but the gods become angels, and they become like these little divine in between things,
but they're not gods. Don't call them gods. They want to get away from even having anyone
potentially competing with the deity that they worship. And that's really what you find. It
gets extreme when you get into Islam. How far they want to go with monotheism, that when you start
bringing up, what about demons and, like, Jinn and things like that? What are these things?
They have to be. They're not deities. They can't be gods. And whenever you read about some of their,
I'll call them myths because they have paganism before Islam comes in with Allah.
How all of these pagan myths end up getting defeated and overcome because the light of the
truth of Allah comes in and squashes all these evil things. We see that happen. The Christian
church had ideas about going into a cave. One of the early saints would go into a cave of a pagan
world. For hundreds of years, he slept, like, hibernated, and then he wakes up and the world's
Christian, all of a sudden, it's Christian. The same idea happened with Islam and stuff.
You know, I'm playing, I just started playing through Skyrim again. I'm not sure if you ever
played a video game, Skyrim. Yeah. I was scrolls, yeah, and I've been watching Game of Thrones,
and just how accurately, I never picked this up in the first place, but how accurately those games
and those TV shows got religions where it's like, my god's real, and it's like, your god's real.
Like, you worship the old gods, I worship the old gods other than you. I'm just like, and it's
just like, damn, dude, it's just so accurate. And it's just like, or like, even in Game of Thrones
where it's like, you know, the big, you know, the divine, the seven or whatever, and it's like,
you know, they've bought the big cathedral, like Cersei put something in the cathedral, it's like,
and it's like, everyone's a sinner, but we're going to force everyone not to sin. It's like,
it's just so accurate of like religious movements and cults and like, it's just so spot on. 100%.
No, the one that I enjoyed was the Fallout 3. Did you ever watch that post apocalyptic game
where you're in like a bunker at the very beginning? When you come out into the world,
one of the first towns you come to, they call Nuke Town because there's this nuke
that dropped but never blew up. And all of these people sit in this very radiated water around the
nuke and like worship it. And there's a church and you walk in and there's like, they literally are
like the people of the light. And you can do a side quest in the game where you actually can,
there's a couple paths you can take, right? Disarm the nuke and like, these nut jobs that are over
here, like worshiping this, this nuke of light that will bring the truth and eradicate all wickedness
and things like that. You can go and actually blow it up. And if you do that, then you'll hear
these rumors out in the world as you go along in your speeches that kind of hint at the truth of
a light from the east did take place. And like, it's like, yeah, I know. I do remember that. I
remember that Nuke Town and everything. Like that's so, and I remember that was a big decision. Like,
I can blow up a whole town. Like that was so cool. Yes. Like the morals, there's morality,
there's the whole nine in the game. And it's just like Skyrim. Yeah. Well, I'm an indie game
I used to be an indie game developer. So like, I was right into the video games for a long time.
And so much of game, game theory has like, moved into like, philosophy. And it's actually really
wild. How much into sex. But so we have L, we have Ashura, we have, you know, Yahweh, we have the,
but God is said to have made us in his, his image, which means that arguably, if you made Adam in
his image, is that Adam would be that God would have a penis, legs, you know, arms,
biceps, some could work out and get bigger, could not eat and get smaller. You know, even, you know,
there's a big question. And you know what, let's just go straight to the dick. But like, because
that's what everyone wants. Everyone wants God's dick. That sounds very blasphemous. I didn't mean
like that. But was Adam circumcised? That was a big question. Right. For, for a long time in,
was it Judaism? Or is it like later in Christianity? It was a big question because
if God, if circumcision was a way of being worthy to, I guess, be with God, be God's chosen people.
Right. And Adam was made perfect. Was he circumcised? Like, it's God circumcised. So
tell us a little bit about that. Well, isn't it interesting that that the Jewish interpreters,
who were looking at this, knew what it meant to be in the image of God? And for those who didn't know,
like modern Christians who act like this means that we're not, this has nothing to do with us
looking like God in any physical sense. The word for image in Hebrew, and I'm no linguist,
but I know about a, you can check the same book a few chapters later, and it tells you,
Genesis 5 verse 3, when Adam had lived 130 years. And notice it's the same guy who was made in the
image of God. He had a son in his own likeness, in his own image, and he named him Seth.
I mean, we don't pretend like the word doesn't mean he looked like Adam.
He models, he has a son that's just like him. And by the way, in biblical,
in the biblical world and antiquity, and I'm sure it's more than just those in this region,
the man conceives, the women just carry, they're just vessels. So they imagine that the seed
of the man is actually what makes the child. And like the woman just somehow was like putting it
in the oven for nine months and like, oh, but if a woman can't get pregnant, right, there's a whole
lot of weird stuff that goes into this. But if the woman can't get pregnant, it could be a demon,
a female demon, tell me there's not some misogyny going on in antiquity here.
The Bible and misogyny? No.
Why am I, I'm trying to refuse the truth of Jesus here.
What sin do you love so much? Why do you hate God, Derek?
Right, you know, I don't know.
You get the point about the image. As far as the penis goes, and I had to just make that point,
notice the rabbis need to come up with, was Adam circumcised? Because they need God to also be
circumcised, because they want the idea of circumcision to match the deity. And they've
rationalized saying, yes, he was. The reason that they say that he was, and I'm looking in here,
was this in dissecting the divine, or was this in his grounded? I can't remember exactly.
I know this would be in section, right?
People have asked, and it's linked in the description. Let me just quickly share this tab.
What is it?
This is your documentary. Your documentary, we're talking about the real God of the Bible.
This is your super popular documentary. How many views is that now? 275,000 views in five days.
It is three hours of just, let me just say this. I deliberately didn't message you after I saw this,
because I wanted to say this on stream, but you have found your stride. The way you talk in this,
the way you present the ideas, it is perfect. You've really come, your other documentaries
are fucking amazing, but this takes up another level. I told you this was the best one, yes.
Yeah, you did. And I was just like, okay, okay, everyone's documentary is the best, like the newest
documentary. It's like when a band releases their new album, and they're like, oh, it's like, what's
your favorite album? And it's like, the new one, the new one's the best. It never is. But this really is.
I always have to do it myself.
This actually is like your best. And this is like, it's just so fascinating. I'm going to watch it
over and over again, because it does such a good job at covering Dr. Francesca Stravokopoulos' work,
because that's essentially your source text. It's going over God and anatomy in a kind of
condensed form. But for anyone, it's ancient description.
Just so you know, I found the section. It's in perfect penis. And in this section, I'll just read
what I put in the script here. Today, we might think this question is silly, but the ancients
thought it was serious. Did God create Adam circumcised or not? The answer would tell us
as much about God's penis as it would Adam's. I know, I know, you might be saying Abraham was
the first guy to get snip, snip of the old, the old foreskin. But in fact, similar language
describing Noah as Tamim, which just means he's worthy to walk with God as a whole or unblemished
person. So rabbis had clever ways to solve these problems. How about Adam, though?
They say he was born from the earth in the image of God, so of course he was circumcised.
This notion has ancient roots, as Francesca expresses. And then she goes in and says,
God's direct forerunner, the late Bronze Age deity L, appears to have undergone circumcision
in a ritual preparing him for marriage and sex with the two goddesses he encountered at the
seashore. Remember the one where he masturbates, gets an erection to heaven? And then these two
goddesses are like, oh my God, look at your pity. I want to mess with it. And then he takes them back
and next thing you know, he knocks up two goddesses. Atharot was not so happy, it seems,
with this whole idea of just bringing in these new goddess chicks who are now getting him babies
and all that. I'm just saying that this is the world you're looking at when you're reading this
So in this Ugaritic myth, L sits enthroned equipped with the phallic symbols of old age
and infertility, in his hand the staff of sterility, in his hand the staff of widowhood,
L's reversal of the lifelessness, held in his hands is revealed in a ritual asserting his sexual
fecundity. His foreskin appears to be removed and the wound, wrapped by ritual specialists
associated with a careful cultivation of sacred vineyards, those who pruned the vine pruned him,
those who bind the vine bound him. They let his tendril fall like a vine, like a budding vine
clipped into fruitfulness. So L's circumcised penis brings forth children in his new marriages
and notice something. As soon as he tells Abraham to circumcise, in this whole picture,
circumcise and all this, he tells him, you will be fruitful and you will have, you will have a seed,
the number of, you can't even count, the stars of heaven and the sand of the sea, like you are
about to have so many freaking kids, Abraham, he circumcised. So this is a fertility, it seems,
some type of cultic fertility practice that the idea, if I circumcise, probably is going to help
them have a magical seed that'll make them have more children in offspring. But he had a son,
according to a priest named Sanconaethon, or something to that effect, Eusebius in the fourth
century is quoting Philo of Biblos in the first century, who was able to translate the ancient
Phoenician language, Canaanite, into Greek. So he's Hellenizing it, but he's bringing the names of
the God, El is one of them, he has a son named Yedud, it's literally I-E-D-O-U-D, I mean, O-U-D,
yeah, yeah, yeah, I-E-D-O-U-D, he's his only begotten son, who El sacrifices and then circumcises his
penis. So like you have the myth of Abraham in this ancient Phoenician, God named El, who sacrifices
his only begotten son, and then turns around and circumcises his dick. It's interesting the
significance of circumcision from a perspective that it's the thing that makes you worthy,
like it's the thing that's like now I'm part of God's people, and there's this amazing cartoon
like book that came out, I don't know what the book's called, but here's an image that kind of went
viral, it's a children's cartoon, a little graphic, but it is a cartoon, so just trigger it through
the morning, but it's called The King of Four Skins. Is this a children's book? No way. I love it.
It's like, this is a kid's book? So I think it's a parody, I think they have all the horrible stories
from the Bible drawn with really happy cartoon figures, and it's like his daughter's hand in
marriage, King Saul wanted no less than 100 Philistine Four Skins, David really wanted to
become a son-in-law to the powerful king, took his men and killed enough Philistines to bring back
200 Four Skins, David counted them all in front of the king as promised, as he was awarded the
princess, and just look how happy he is, he's like, here are your Four Skins, it's like a big sack.
I saw that and I was like, why didn't I think of this, like imagine that, imagine a book of just
all like religious texts, but done in like a cartoon children's book kind of way. That's hilarious,
that's hilarious, yeah. But why, so from a theological perspective, why is the Four
Skins, go back into your Christian mindset for a second, like let's go back to Derek's seven
YouTube channel or whatever, like whatever the, you know, your old Christian YouTube channel,
like I was talking to Christian Derek, what is the importance of the Four Skins, like removing
the Four Skins, why is that? Well, it would have been something either spiritual at the time,
or it would have been that God knew ahead of time that somehow this would, in our excuse,
be more hygiene cleaner, because anyone who's had children that are boys, you know,
you got to pull back the Four Skins and clean around there every day. If you don't, you will,
it will build up, it will infect, and then you can have a problem, and that can create a bit.
So this was my mindset, it's like, hey, notice these people are doing this, because that was
what I would have probably said. Now I know it's not that. It's definitely in the vein of
fertility, and also in the vein of, I would say, like a right to becoming one of the righteous,
one of the just in that coltic environment, because if you look carefully at some of the
priestly writings or some of the later stuff, you'll notice that men, this is going to get funny.
So if you're a girl, please forgive me, I'm just talking Bible here. Also, let me just say this,
there's so many times in the documentary, we're like, I can't mention this on YouTube,
I might get my channel demonetized, whatever, mention them here. We're ready to risk it,
if it's, well, just be careful of what I say, because I don't care for what you say, use the
terms like grape and I'll try, I won't use that word. You'll know what I mean, I'll use adjectives
to describe it. We're just talking Bible. Look, it gets real, real dark, and she points out like
Yahweh, according to some of the books, Hosea, you have it in other places as well in the prophets,
but come back to that for one second just to point out, if you were going to be anyone in a
priestly setting, someone who's going to be significant, which means you're closer to God,
you're going to be closer to God, you have to have your nuggets nice and tight,
you have to gird up your loins underneath your loincloth, you have to have your nuts nice and
tight, they cannot be free dangling around, God does not like that. Also, you could not have just
had sex and enter into these sacred spaces, or the night before, if you're dripping from fluids,
you're not kosher to enter into these places. This is also getting into everything, in a way,
it's like a cleanliness thing, because if you go to Qumran, many of the Jews in Qumran, they had
special places they went to defecate, number one. Number two, when they went to defecate,
I'm going to impersonate it, you're lucky if you can see this. Dude, they would cover their behind
with a white loincloth while they went to poop, so that God did not see their rear ends while
they pooped. They hid it from God's view, because they respect God so much. It reminds you of the
passages where the Seraphim are covering themselves with their wings, and they're in the presence of
God, and she says in the book, I think this is Isaiah, or Ezekiel, somewhere in Ezekiel,
I don't have all this, like I didn't come prepared to go through all of it, all in her book, and in
my documentary I mentioned some of this, but her point is, is they're covering their feet,
but the feet are euphemism for the penis, and here are the Seraphim with dicks that are covering
their dicks in the presence of the Almighty Dick, God's in the temple, and his dick fills the temple,
and it's, I know, I know. We've got it, so there's a scripture, is it Isaiah or something? It's like,
it's like someone's got to have a script, we've got to read that scripture, because when you read it,
just like in church, whatever, you just don't get that bad idea, but when you look into the
the language, and like what it actually means, does anyone know the scripture that we're talking
about? Do you know the scripture Derek? It's like, that you're talking about the, it feels the temple,
like it, like it's, it talks about his dick, God's, it's, I think it's, I think it's, I think it's
rogue. Oh, yeah, it was it. Let's just pull up, because I've got it in here, I just got to find it in my script.
Someone help, because it's, it's, it's, it's crazy, because you read this, and this is what I love
about, about religion, is since I've actually left religion, is it's so much more interesting,
as I said, so much more interesting, not just from a like, we're laughing and stuff now, but like,
like this, this is interesting to look at, like what was important.
I'm looking for it, and to be very honest, should be, maybe it's in the foot section,
and not the penis section, I don't know, because I thought it was in the penis, she has like four
sections on, there's genitals, there's, make sure that's right, that's footloose, genitals,
I try to follow the outline of her book, phallic masculinities, perfecting the penis,
and then there's divine sex, and that might be where it's, I don't know, no, that's where she
gets an astra, athrat. Ah, here we go, verse, Isaiah, chapter six, verse one, in the year of king
Isaiah, in the year the king, Isaiah died, I saw the Lord seated on a throne, high and exalted,
and the train of his robe filled the temple, and she argues that that's not, that's a euphemism,
yeah, yeah, yeah, for the penis,
yeah, I don't know where it is in the, I know Dan McClellan has covered this, Dan McClellan
points out that he says this is an, this is an interpretation that there are a couple of other
people he mentioned that also think this, and then there are some who don't, right, there's some who
don't, there's some who want to try and argue, no, this means this, this has to do with, this has to
do with his actual train, his actual robe, or his actual dangly parts of the robe, or whatever,
they want to take that approach. Even this is like, why does God need a robe? Why? Like, it's just,
it seems, it seems so human, like, why does God, like, is he protecting himself from the elements?
Is he trying to exalt himself among, like, what's the purpose? If he's the most exalted,
why does he have a robe? Why has he covered, like, it, I just, it just seems all too human to me.
Well, it is, and they will later allegorize or find symbolic, spiritual ways to interpret
stuff like this. They, I mean, even, we read the Genesis account, God walks with Adam,
walks with him, he walks with Abraham, he talks with him, it's not like some strange, you know,
you read it and it says what it looks like, and it looks like what it says, and it's,
he's walking and talking with God, normal. He calls after them, he asks what they are.
When Christians look back and they interpret it, for example, in the garden, remember where he hides
because he's afraid of God? He hears God walking up, the text says, like, he can hear God's footsteps.
Later on, Christians interpret this and they're like, is it God's feet actually? No, no. It is,
it is the, the gospel of Christ walking ever so closer to Adam. Like, they have allegorized and
spiritualized all of this and lost all of the original context. They completely destroyed that,
that ancient understanding. And that's okay. So why does God get angry? Why does God have a nose?
Why does God have feet? Why does God have a dick? Why does God have a wife? Why does he have children?
Why does he sit on a throne like every other human king that rules, sits on a throne and needs a crown,
and needs a robe, and needs a throne, and needs a footstool, and has, you know, a divine right arm
that's strong just like Marduk's, just like some of the deities in Egypt, just like some of the human
deities called pharaohs that ruled in all places on planet Earth. That's because it walks like a
duck. It talks like a duck. It's a freaking duck. It is a, it is an anthropomorphized deity. This,
this, the Bible tells us this, right? What I mean is, is when you're looking, because the Bible doesn't
tell us anything, but when you're reading it, this is what it looks like. And the best proper way to
understand this is to use a heuristic approach, comparing it to literature from the same region,
at the same time, and the surrounding cultural regions to see if we see any similarities at the
same time. And wouldn't you know, we get the same stuff? I mean, in our Bibles, we get hints of God
having sex. We get hints of him in the act of the RAPE word that we aren't going to say on YouTube
with Israel. And that section got so bad. I erased my script several times trying to make that section
for this documentary, David. It gets real. Do you have, do you have part of that script that you
can like kind of talk about a little bit? Yeah. This is myth fiction, uncut, after hours. Uncut,
only fans. Watch out. Bigger, longer, uncut. I know, right? So let me see in the book here for a
second, because I know that what I cut out, so it's not in penitentials. Let me just shout out to,
the book is linked in the description. And it's part of the recommended reading, but it's linked in
Derek's links as well. Go check it out. It's an amazing book. The audio is done. Audio version is
self-incredible. And of course, another thing, if people are wanting to, they just can't get enough
of this stuff, you can go check out MVP courses. MVP courses are doing some, you guys are doing
some really awesome stuff. You guys have made me an affiliate, which is super sick. So if you use
the links in the description here, it helps me, it helps this channel out. But Dr. Robin Welch,
Dr. Robin Faith Welch is coming up with a class, and there's some really awesome classes up there.
But go check out MVP courses. And Derek, back to you. What have you found?
Okay, I found it. Are y'all sure you're ready? I'm just going to read it, man.
Is everybody in the chat ready? If you're ready, right now, two things. I want to see,
press one if you liked this stream. And if you're ready to hear what this is, what this says.
I want to see one comment section from our followers here that are following us, because
I want to know if they really want to hear what it says. I want to see, I want to see.
So I'm waiting. Let's do this. I'm waiting to see some of these, some of them, some of the people
watching to let us know. Press one in the comments, please. Okay, we got, I wonder if we,
I killed Earl. Mr. Wallis says he's ready. J and M Cannon. John D. Okay. Yep. You need to,
John D. Get ready for that course. AR, Grand Pong, William Farner. Hope I'm saying that properly.
Marcos, Courtney, Colin. All right. Maxwell. Okay. Cool. All right. We got some attention.
And I put, I put, I put on some relaxing reading music, but this is the same similar style of
music that you use in your documentary. So it's just in the background, just slightly. So everyone
can just enjoy it as we try to make it as soothing as it can be with this very difficult, but it
starts off good. Here we go. You ready? Let's do it. In the Bible, however, God's most significant
and sexualized relationship is not with a goddess or a goddess like figure, but with his other wife,
Israel. The personification of a city, territory, nation, or social group as a woman is well
attested in often masculinist patriarchal cultures across the globe. But in the biblical text,
the female personification of Israel plays a sustained and crucial role in articulating the
intense and exclusive relationship between God and his worshipers. It is a relationship so intimate.
And I just want to pause and say, notice how they're feminine. The worshipers
is people Israel or feminine. This, this leads into the bride of Christ. I always wondered,
as a Christian, am I going to be his wife? Because, you know, we have this binary world as,
as staunch fundamentalist. And it's like, in my mind, I'm like, I'm the husband of my wife.
I'm the man in this relationship. Does this mean Jesus is going to do me when I'm his wife?
Like, I would think of all these things and it didn't make sense to me. I didn't understand it.
But you can see all the way in the Old Testament, Hebrew scriptures. So anyway,
and yet in some books of the Hebrew Bible, the erotic tone of this imagery not only moves from
the emotional to the physical, but takes on a much darker hue, casting God as a powerful,
sexual predator and Israel as a, a, a co-quetish young girl. I hope I'm saying that right.
The book of Hosea offers a vivid example. Here, Israel is a capricious teenager,
whose sexual lure so intoxicates God, he falls to scheming obsessively and possessively to make
her his wife. I will now, I will now seduce her, he says of Israel. I will take her walking into
the wilderness and speak to her heart. And there she will cry out. These words betray more than
the romantic fantasy of a love-struck deity. God's language here marks a shift from passion to threat.
In claiming he will seduce her, he uses a Hebrew expression more usually employed in the Hebrew
Bible to describe the rape of captive women. And in describing Israel's vocal response,
he uses a term that can, that can convey both the noise of sexual gratification and religious joy.
God's dangerous sense of sexual entitlement skews his planned attack
on the girl into the distorted conviction that she will enjoy her rape and scream an
orgasmic ecstasy. This image of sexual violation is unsettling enough, but nowhere in the Bible
is the portrayal of God's sex life more disturbing than in two stories in the book of Ezekiel.
Like other biblical narrators, Ezekiel reasons that the military defeat in imperial subjugation
that befell Yahweh's people in the 6th century BC was a divine punishment for worshipping other
gods. Here too, Israel is cast as God's wife, but her whoring after foreign deities provokes
her husband's fury and punishment. According to Ezekiel, this is where he is dark. I've never
heard, I did not know the Bible had anything like this. Okay, so get ready. According to Ezekiel,
her wanton behavior in marriage is the culmination of a long history of social and sexual deviancy.
Their relationship begins in the wilderness, where God finds an abandoned baby girl,
her umbilical cord still attached, deliberately cast away from the rest of humanity. You were
abhorred on the day of your birth, scorned God, as he reminds her that she had been neither washed
of birth blood, nor rubbed with protective salt scrub and swaddled. And yet God acknowledges her,
commanding her to live and grow. Only when she has obediently matured to puberty does he notice her
again. Reminiscing lasciviously about this, this subsequent encounter, God comments, your breasts
were formed. Your pubic hair had grown. You were naked and bare. I passed by you and looked at you.
You were at the age for lovemaking. I spread the corner of my cloak over you and covered your nakedness.
I pledged myself to you and entered into a covenant with you. You became mine.
The voyeuristic tone to his words is not lost in this English translation, which barely manages to
soften the graphic sexual nature of his actions. God's gaze is upon the girl's exposed sexual
organs, moving him to cover her genitals nakedness with his own, his spreading cloak politely functioning
here as an image of his mounting her, much as in the book of Ruth in which the eponymous heroine
urges a sleepy Boaz to have sex with her by spreading the corner of his cloak over her.
The sexual euphemisms continue for it is by penetrating the girl's body that God enters
into a binding covenant with her, an unequal power relationship in which the forging of the
deity's exclusive and proprietary claim to Israel is presented as the sexual consummation of a man's
possession of a bride. You became mine. And she goes on to explain that Jewish and Christian
interpreters have tended to soften and sanitize this encounter either by reductive means so that
the episode is merely a metaphor or allegory depicting intense religious intimacy or by
fantasizing that romantic notions of a committed heteronormative love find their archetype in God
so that he is the paradigmatic devoted husband. But this is wishful thinking and it will not do.
Ezekiel's story is reflective of a patriarchal masculinist culture in which girls and women
tended to be valued and defined in terms of their bodily configurations with men as daughters,
sisters, wives, mothers, or sex workers. The biblical God cannot and should not be let off the
hook. Here he is a predatory alpha male whose sexual entitlement entirely shapes the identity and
fate of this displaced and vulnerable young girl. Indeed, it is only after sex that God formally
rehabilitates his young bride by means of actions reminiscent of rituals denied her at birth.
He bathes her washing away the dried blood of birth and the wet blood of puberty and then
rubs her not with salt but with sacred oil. Her objectification continues as she dresses her
as he dresses her in rich fabrics and put soft leather sandals on her feet. He decorates her
with earrings, a nose ring, bangles, a necklace, and crown so that she looks like a statue of a
goddess in a temple. He gives her the ritual foods commonly offered to deities, choice flower,
honey, and fragrant oil, and transfers her from the wilderness to civilization where she is rapturously
celebrated for the beauty God has bestowed upon her. And here she is fixed, an unspeaking passive
ornament of her husband's hegemonic sexualized masculinity. For God, this is a fruitful relationship
the girl gives birth to his sons and daughters, God's own worshipers. And it goes on and on and on
and on and on, bro. But everything's sexual. And what's really interesting about this is why we know
that she's on track with this whole thing. All you got to do is go to Mesopotamia, go to Ugarit.
I mean, if you're you read it in your Bible, but if you go and you see it in Ugarit, you see it
in Mesopotamia, you see it in Greece, look at Greek myths. Zeus comes down with alchemyni,
golden shower, he turns into a golden shower, it impregnates her. In other cases, he rapes her,
he transforms into an animal, a bull, and Yahweh is depicted over and over and over as a bull.
In fact, there's a passage in the Ugaritic stuff where L is like literally equated with a bull,
and he talks about this, does L's penis arouse you talking to atherod? Oh, does the penis of L,
the king excite you? Does the love organ of the bull arouse you? This is in KTU,
1.4 IV, 30, I think that's four, 35 to 39. All the sources are in a book. Here's another one.
After Father Inky had lifted his eyes across the Euphrates, he stood up full of lust like a rampant
bull, lifted his penis, ejaculated and filled the Euphrates with flowing water.
By lifting his penis, he brought a bridal gift, the tigress rejoiced in its heart,
like a great wild bull when it was born. And that's another one. Egypt has tons of these,
where I actually interviewed Karakuni and she talks about the gods, they ejaculate,
put it in their mouth, and then they end up spitting out new life, new gods. I mean, bro.
Oh my God. I thought porn was the one that came up with that, but it's like, no, this is,
spitting something, it's been there for a while.
Here's another one. Francesca knows all too well how people can point the finger to other
myths and their sexual bull gods, so she makes sure to mention Yahweh as well.
Among these high statue deities, it is no surprise to find that Yahweh too was often understood as
the divine bull. Bovine language, the Hebrew term Abir, underlies his biblical designation as the
mighty one, Abir of Jacob, who grants genital fertility to the Israelite tribe of Joseph.
And in some biblical texts, Yahweh's cult statue is said to take the form of a bull or a bull calf.
So he, it walks like a duck. And so for those who want to pretend,
the apologists, the most, the modern ones want to go, God is not that. The Bible doesn't teach that.
They're full of it, number one. But number two is this, if they're going to apply that kind of
reasoning to the God that is depicted in the Bible or this evolution of this God, then we should do
the same thing with all the other deities as well, because you, that's cherry picking. You cannot
without that's the special pleading and cherry picking.
Do you know the one religious person that I could get on board with being that type of religious
person is Dr. Dan McCullen, data over dogma. You know what I mean? His religious himself,
people call him a wolf in sheep's clothing because he just, because he says it like it is.
And any, any, any, he brings out the consent, consensus scholarship and it pisses everyone
off. But he's like, Hey, look, I'm not going to lie. This is what a lot. This is what I don't
understand. I don't know how a lot of Christians can flat out lie. They lie to themselves. They lie
to, to their audience. I don't know how they can do that and then still think that they're good,
that they're not going to be turned from, turned from me. I never knew you, you practice lawlessness.
You know what I mean? Like I don't know how they, they think they're just going to be waltzing
through the gates of heaven by lying about, about things, especially like young with creationism
stuff. So someone like Dan McCullen, although I don't subscribe to obviously his faith,
I can respect that he separates his faith and his religious education, his scholarship. I love
that. Great. He's in line with everything I'm saying. He really agrees. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's
because he's a wolf in sheep's clothing. I can't believe that. Have you seen those me?
I'm so glad you brought that up, man. I just can't believe it. He's like the, he's like the,
oh my God, he's the best guy ever. To be very honest with you, I've said this before,
which I don't see myself ever doing it, but like if I ever became someone who joined a faith again,
it would be a Dan McCullen type. It would be the kind that doesn't take this stuff.
Don't like this. Yeah. Yeah. It'd be more like, I don't know, I'm connecting to some group because
I feel like I would need to, I don't know. It wouldn't be because Moses really did get the
team of commandments and the red sea, the sea of reeds really did split and Jesus really did rise.
By the way, you're going to ask me about these other books that I never even freaking got around
to, but like we're having so much fun. It's up to you, man. Well, I do, I do want to quickly
go over and we've got like 35 minutes left, but if you've got any super chance, make sure
you get them in because I'm going to have to cut them off at a certain time. We've got 90 minutes
today. But, but, so Derek knows everything Christmas special, the segment will, let's
just call it the Derek knows stuff Christmas special. I know it's hurting you. Derek knows
stuff Christmas special. Yeah. What is Derek learn Christmas special? But last year, I asked you
about the resurrection, miracles, Jesus returning, mythosism. I was wondering, has your perspective
changed on any of those things? Especially I want to ask about like, and I want to ask
specifically because this is probably the most interesting to me because it's the, it's the
part that I think apologists kind of go on about the most is I set out like they're an enemy. They're
not an enemy. They're just a group of people that tend to do things a certain way. So last year,
I asked you about the resurrection. And, and I go, what do you think happened? What do you
think? And you probably won't remember what your answer was. So I'm going to ask you today,
maybe subconsciously you've learned something else. What do you think happened on the resurrection?
Do you think the body was stolen? The swoon theory, I think it was. Or do you have an idea of like,
was it recorded incorrectly? Like, tell us a little bit about that. And maybe that will
touch into the book that you were just mentioning. I personally just simply put I personally take
the legendary route of Jesus's burial and what we have in the accounts of the Gospels as legend.
I interviewed Robin Faith Walsh once and asked her, hey, what do you think happened to the body?
Right. And this is when she said the problem was is even earliest Christians didn't know
exactly what happened. So they were, they were wanting to know the same thing. So I tend to think
that this is legend. And the reason I think this is legend, even though there could have been a
missing body, I don't personally think that that's the case. But because this is what my personal
thought is here, David, when you go back into the Greek and Roman world, and it's not just my personal
thought, for those who don't know resurrection and reception and early Christianity, Richard C.
Miller, I did an I did a documentary four and a half hours long on the church is hiding on the
origins, the true origins of Christianity in this link in description. Huh? Link in description.
I always just just just so you know, in the book club is everything. Every book that's ever mentioned
it's it's there. And batteries are not included. So what I'm what I'm getting at is that
he documents in the Greek and Roman world how when people's bodies go missing,
this sign that they had become a God, we have contemporary writings from
Kalihari or Callerho, however you want to pronounce that, where it's a novel and the girl
goes missing. She's actually taken by a bunch of guys and like supposedly she's supposed to be in
this tomb and they come and she's not dead. And these grave robbers take her body and of course
they take off and he immediately responds when he gets there not knowing that she's still alive
and she was taken off by some guy in Persia or something that he goes which of you of the gods
wanted her and envied me and took her from me like like he knew that she had been taken in his
mind to become a goddess. You find this over and over and over and there's on chapter two of his
book. He lists from an alphabetical order like A to Z. All of these different gods are 77 I think
it is that are listed in chapter two of this book. And I can't even pronounce half of them
because they're all Greek names and some names I never heard of. But like Heracles and Bernice,
Queen of Ptolemaic Egypt, Asclepius, various fables and historical people that you'll find
where their bodies go missing. Apollonius of Tyena, Ariadne, Aristius, Son of Apollo, Alexander the
Great, Aeneas, Son of Aphrodite, Alchemyne, Prince of Mycenaean Tyreens. Their list goes on and on
and on as you go through. And most of them, 50 something of these people, their bodies went missing.
50 something of them, their bodies went missing and they all are either gods or goddesses.
That's why you get these like, okay, why was Alexander the Great and one of the stories trying
to make his body disappear by drowning in a river? He tried to drown himself according to one account
to end up getting taken off by the river and disappear. He, according to this account,
people to then go, he's become a god. And in another account, he really did become a god.
But the fact that his body would go missing. So I personally take the gospels as legendary
accounts. But if you do want to pretend that these are history, and I say pretend not because they
aren't or there isn't a kernel, I don't think it's verifiable. There's no way to test this into no.
But to it, you can get them to say like, hey, these tombs seem to be described somewhat accurate
to what actual first 10, first century tombs looked like. So if that somehow nudges someone
into thinking they knew a little too much about tombs in that period in that place,
and therefore it makes them think this might be more historical because of the verisimilitude,
okay, let's go down the path of assuming he really did go missing. Would the disciples have
removed his body and taken it off and disposed of it a different way? I think so. And Christians
don't think, oh, they would never die for something. Well, if you just read about the Caesars,
they had a public example where they made a wax effigy of the Caesar, and they would burn it
in front of the public after the Caesar would die. And once the fire, just like Heracles,
once the fire burned down, there's no bones. No bones. That was a sign that his body had been
removed because bones remain in a normal fire. So why is there no bones? Well, they created
a wax effigy and they had a private setting where the family actually buried the king or the emperor
at the time. And this is temporary to Jesus, contemporary to the times of the origins of
Christianity. And I'm looking at examples going, yep, okay, would they have stolen the body if
we say that's historical? Of course they would have. Of course they would have. And people go,
what would be the motivating factor behind it? Have you ever heard of power? Think about it.
You're one of the guys. Has anyone ever heard of Joseph Smith? I mean, think about that.
Let's say that they are, they do steal the body because they're expecting him to resurrect. Let's
say that is the case. They're expecting him to resurrect. We want to get out of the hands of
the Romans or whoever's, no, wait, we're going to take the body. He doesn't resurrect. Okay,
let's just not tell anyone about that path. And then all these legends start, you know,
people start saying, oh, I started seeing Jesus down the road. I saw Jesus, I saw Jesus.
And another thing is like, you know, there's a preacher called Peter Popov,
who literally scammed his entire audience of millions of dollars. He's still got a church.
He was found to be a fraud. He's still got a church. People still stand by him. Why? There's
this thing called the sunk cost fellacy. If you're, if you, you can't Christians in one breath say,
there was this community believers persecuted. They sold all their belongings and gave it to the
church. They've given everything to this cause. And then it turns out to not to be true. What
happens? What do we see where people do that? They don't, people predict the end of the world
and they sell their belongings. And then what do they do? Actually, we're off by a couple of years.
It's going to be a few years down the track. Like people don't just go, you know what, I'm going
to bail in this community that I've been part of, that we've gone through all this traumatic stuff
together. You know, there's so many reasons why people would still continue to be Christians and
still try to promote this, this new form of, which by the way, and not to conform, it goes over this
in his recent documentary, Christianity was whack at the start. It was very, very different to what,
what we know. And so like there's a lot of competing ideas. So I mean, yeah, I just,
it just doesn't, it makes sense. And like, I'm not saying that is the case, but like,
back to Schum, what's more likely that there is this Son of God, and all these holes in the Bible
will just figure out a way to make them not holes in the future and all, you know, and really, like,
it just, it doesn't, or it was just natural explanation.
You bring up the thing that I figure I, I think it's important emphasizing because I didn't
really know this before I met Richard C. Miller. And when in his work on resurrection reception,
he pointed out that at this time in the Greek and Roman and Jewish world,
gods were physical. Okay. They had physical bodies. They just weren't seen by people,
they hid. They usually kept their bodies hidden. But here's what's interesting.
A ghost or a phantom does not have a physical body. And one of the ways you would tell someone in
a story that someone is a God is that they can go through walls. They can teleport, transport,
go through walls and yet be physical. This was a clear sign that they were, they were actually
a God, not a phantom or a ghost, which is why you see in the gospels them jabbing at, I am not a
ghost. I am not a phantom. I'm eating with you. Here I am with you. Touch me. Well, in Thomas's
case, I never realized this. Christians love to make a big deal out of this point and go,
he's part of the Trinity and Jesus did claim to be God. And the gospel of Thomas or the
gospel of John, where Thomas shows up and he says, my Lord and my God, we all know the famous
passage. Touch me, feel me, know that I am like I'm here. I'm alive and I'm physical.
Immediate reaction was my Lord, my God. Now, why did he have that immediate reaction?
Because at that time, physical bodies that would transport or teleport or go through things like
that and yet remain physical was evidence of them being God. And we see this in Matthew,
because when you go to the gospel of Matthew, they come to the tomb, the stone is not rolled away.
The stone is there. And yet Jesus is not in the tomb. Well, then how the hell did he get out?
Hmm. God. Because once they roll the stone away, he's not there. So it's proof to them that this
man is divine. He's divine. And this all the way through the gospels, the evidence of him being
divine, the body going missing is a well-known legendary fictional trope. And did it play into
the history of people manufacturing evidence? Yeah, they did it with Caesar. They purposely
have the wax effigy melt. They go, oh, he became a God. Of course, the Senate was the one who
ultimately ruled, but they also depended on the people. If the people wanted this guy to become
a God and the Senate hated him, Julius Caesar, they were going to go with the consensus or they
were going to get their asses handed to them by the overwhelming populace. And that did not stop.
They made him into a God. So there's so many interesting things to go into.
But this, I would say this book really changed my understanding on Jesus and Christianity and
even going into Paul. Paul already has a set up legend. And we can look at other examples
from writers who talk about Lucian of Samasata, the one who's the satireist. He talks about
a peregrinus who was a Christian. He was like worshiped by Christians, like this guy was somebody,
according to Lucian. And he left Christianity and joined a philosophy. I can't remember which
philosophy. He met his aschesis, as Miller would tell me, that pretty much meaning I've made it.
I am at my peak philosophical Zen. I'm at the peak. It's time for me to prove that I'm going to burn
myself alive in front of everybody on a pyre. You might go, that sounds stupid. It is stupid.
But in that time, Heracles and others who were famous gods in the Greek and Roman world,
and the Romans went out on a pyre and to show that you really are that serious and dedicated,
he goes up, he burns himself on the pyre. I'm butchering this, but it's something like this.
Lucian's on his way to go watch peregrinus commit suicide in front of everybody and claim,
I did this because of the gods and I'm right and I'm ready to go up and be part of the platonic
ultimate good and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, whatever it is. He says on the way people kept
bothering him and go, hey, what happened? Or he was coming from there and he saw what happened
and they kept bugging him. Well, what happened? What happened? So finally he said he was annoyed
and he said, all right, so I started telling them this phoenix. Once he burned the phoenix
rose and ascended to Mount Olympus and like he gave this bullshit story and then he goes home.
The next day he's out in the market, some old man comes up to him and is like, I'm an eyewitness.
I saw the phoenix ascend to Mount Olympus from his body and Lucian says whether this is satire
or not. It tells you the mindset of the people at the time, how superstitious even at the face of
lying they were that he and we do it today. So I don't even want to hear people who try to go,
oh, that's not true. The apologists that do this, but he points out, I made this lie up 24 hours ago
and here this man's already circulating that he witnessed something that I made up.
What's that tell you? It tells you, can I really trust a book written by a cult leader who's getting
your money in Corinth and Philippi in Galatia and handing you money to a cult leader named Paul,
who's going to bring it to some people called the poor over here in Jerusalem and you're actually
going to believe that everything they're telling you is actually the truth? Well, why would they lie,
Derek? They would never tell us lies. Well, you're just an ignorant person. I can't help.
You might as well give to Peter Popoff, okay? Like,
man, someone commented how long till Testified makes a video about this.
I love Testified. Like, he's content's great, but I don't agree with these perspectives, but
you know, he makes, his videos are actually about on.
Because they like, they're such a literal, in his view, when he does these little mockeries
of Dionysus and stuff, I laugh. I think it's funny. I'm like, I'm in the comments being funny,
good sport that I am. But in reality, how little their imagination really is on understanding how
literature at this time worked and how they would imitate and model new constructed stories based
on the well established mythical legendary tropes of the period from Romulus, Heracles,
Alexander the Great. Those are the major three in the Greek and Roman world. And of course,
in the Jewish world, you had Moses, Elijah, Jonah. These figures were huge and they would imitate
them using some of that Alexander the Great, Romulus and Heracles mythology and incorporate,
and others as Scalepius with the healing Dionysus with the turning water and the wine.
This is clearly a trope, but Jesus and it's real. This is true, of course.
Got a couple of super chats quickly. I know we're, well, we're actually over time.
But just before we do that, guys, two more episodes for the year, not so erudite in a few days.
So we're cramming them in. This will be a really interesting for these 47 hours.
This can be a really awesome episode. And then we also have the 100 episode
live stream with some special gas coming on in three days. So make do not miss this one.
Do not miss this one live. I'm telling you, there's some crazy stuff's going to go down.
It's going to be, it's going to be fun. But Derek, I have a couple of super chats. One
digital Hammurabi. Let me just drop that. Sorry. Look at these two atheists. So typical. Just one
question. Do you have the spirit of God? No, they can't know anything about my Bible.
All right, don't tell me. But he got me. He got me. He got me. No, I mean, I'm not even kidding.
I was already got by when Cameron Batuzzi said that God was perfect. By the way,
God is perfect. When he said that, I was like, oh, fuck atheism destroyed.
That's it. It's done. It's done. This anthropomorphic God that raped Israel in the book of Hosea.
He's right. He's perfect. I mean, you know, the one from Ezekiel that took the little baby and
told it to grow pubic hair and then he would mess with her. That God's perfect. You know,
what a wonderful day Cameron. What exactly? Yeah. Oh, and slavery was perfect. I actually
respond to that and I said that slavery was perfect. That's it. By the way, slavery is perfect.
And then I'll delete another one. Sorry. Go, go. What are you saying?
No, Joshua Bowen Nels. I'm glad someone like him who's really focused on slavery,
because that is such a moral conundrum, right? Like, we all are living in a time where the
impacts of centuries of it are still showing. There's trauma still here.
And the fact that apologists play these games, it just tells you a lot. It tells you a lot about
the Kool-Aid that beliefs drink Kool-Aid. God was working within his time and he was working
within his time and it was just, he had to, he had to do it because his hands were tied and,
you know, like he could say donate shrimp, but he couldn't tell people not to own human's property.
I killed Elle. Thank you for the five deep prince memberships. And that's amazing. And
so Rebel AZ, thank you for the tool. Super chat. Any book recommendations on Passover,
Old Testament versus New Testament? Passover? I don't know a specific book. I wish I did
on just dealing with that. That's an interesting one because I imagine there's an evolution from
my research. And Kip Davis, I thought I saw was in the chat. He could give me like a,
tell me if I'm hot or cold here, Kip, but there's an evolution, it seems, of Passover itself from
what appears to be a very ancient agricultural ceremonial thing that people in Phoenicia,
Canaan, potentially all throughout the Levant, practiced that eventually picked up narratives
that we later would call the Exodus with Moses and the firstborn children and stuff. And they
found ways to kind of, I guess you'd say fuse those together over time. But as far as the New
Testament goes, you're dealing with a, you're dealing with a very Jewish established period
where Jews, the religion of Judaism is fully in effect. And so Passover is something even Jesus
attended. I mean, there's no, according to the text, of course, I can't say what Jesus actually
himself did, but the texts say he is actually practicing and participating in Passover. And
there are some scholars who think there might be some other kind of replacement stuff, replacement
theology happening where some of these older or Jewish practices like Passover, sacrifice,
all these things, Jesus just so happens to be the one who fulfills them and stuff. So I don't
know a book though, like a specific book that deals with it. And my hot or cold, it was a
pastoral festival that was combined in Deuteronomy with an agricultural festival of spring rights in
Exodus. So, okay, I think I was kind of warm. It may not have been hot, but I was classic,
classic Kip coming in with facts and logic, history. Who does he think he is? I mean,
he's Canadian. Like, come on. Come on, eh? You know, you know all about it, right? You know all
about it. I'm not going to rip on Canadians. I have a sterling accent. But let me just say,
go subscribe to MythVision, everyone subscribe to MythVision, but if you hear you subscribe to
MythVision, even my mum subscribed to MythVision, go over, subscribe if you're not, go check out
the documentary. It's amazing. Watch it three times. Send it to your fundamentalist auntie and
make sure you subscribe to Deep Drinks. We are 200 subscribers away from getting to 5,000. Let's
see if we can get to 500,000 by the end of the year. All right, we can do it. 500,000 subscribers?
Let's say no. Let's go 50,000 subscribers by the end of the year. No, 5,000 subscribers by the
year. Let's try and do it. And let's end on one last super chat. Yeah, nitty. $10. Thank you so
much. We are Deep Vision. I like that. Should we start a podcast called Deep Vision? Deep
in some shit vision. Awesome. Well, guys, it's been amazing. As always, have Derek on. Thank
you, Derek, for coming on. I really appreciate it. And it's been great. We're going to rename this to
The Derek Knows Stuff Christmas Special for next year. And thank you for changing the name.
You know, when you were less of a, when you were so, when you weren't so big of a content creator,
it was even funnier. But now that you're like, it's like, all of a sudden, now you're becoming a
bit of an internet celebrity. So it's like, it's not, it's not cool. But anyway. Yeah, I don't like,
I seriously do think, yeah, I don't like that personally. But I really don't like that because
I interviewed scholars. I am not a scholar, right? I wanted, but I love the freedom to explore ideas
and stuff. And so there's a, there's a privilege. I'm very privileged to be at the feet of some
brilliant minds and learn from various people who disagree with each other on many things,
but overwhelmingly have a lot more in common and then walk away and then dissect it or digest it
and see how it makes sense to me. And then also explore areas that maybe most people don't
in certain fields of biblical studies explore. That's just not something that it's not that
they wouldn't. It's just not the thing that their school maybe particularly is trying to focus on
and explore. And that's what Richard C. Miller pointed out with his book, Resurrection and Reception.
Where did I put it? I put it right here. That, the point is not many New Testament scholars,
if any, are really doing classicist New Testament scholarship. You got to go deep into the Greek,
Roman world in order to recognize its impact on Christianity because they only want to look at
Jewish antecedents. And I get why, but they're ignoring, there's an ignoring of the facts of
what's going on simultaneously at this emergence of Christianity between the Greek and the Roman
and Jewish world. And the New Testament, it just makes me think, here are these Gentiles that are
entering into the movement who probably are funding a lot of this just like they did many of the
synagogues among the diaspora. And they're moving into this movement and they're probably bringing
ideas or at least somebody's bending something in some way in a Hellenistic way to get them to
come in. And so you don't get that often. It's not the most common approach to New Testament studies.
And that's what I think. I like to explore stuff that isn't the most common idea out there.
And that's what you do the best. You are the best. Your stuff is incredible.
Thank you.
Thank you so much, Derek. It's a pleasure as always. I'll see you guys in 47 hours.
