This stream is already chaos we're in the back room just like spitting knowledge spitting sources
well I'm doing less of the spitting and these guys I'm having on are doing most of the spitting of
knowledge today we have an awesome stream guys this is not something you want to miss if you're
new to this channel hit subscribe really appreciate it I want to introduce the two amazing guests
Nostagen Formant and Derrick from MythVision podcast they both cover history, mythology,
and comparative religion and much more welcome guys to Deep Drinks podcast
yeah that was way too uh what is spitting going on there
honestly it was chaos like in the back I'm like guys we're gonna start I was like yeah
yeah
I mean I was at his house we're like at the whole time when we get like where every time
we get together like I just there's so much good banter I love it I really really appreciate it
you guys coming on so for me well I know that this is going to be a wild one so I bring a
concoction of drinks so I bring I've got a coffee right instant coffee I've got an iced water right
ready to rock and I've also got a zero sugar ice-co, uh, coca-cola. So we're good. Oh yeah.
And what is that? Dutch pros. Nice. That's a West Coast kind of, kind of a Starbucks-like-ish thing.
Oh, nice. Yeah, that's pretty good. Well, guys, this is, I'm starting off with it with a doozy,
right? You guys have been jumping fr- you've been pissing off all the, all the academic,
not pissing off, but like, you, you, you drop in some shit that's like wild. Uh, and it's like,
I can't believe this isn't, it hasn't been covered before. Uh, you guys have been diving right into
comparative religion, looking at mythologies. Where do we draw the line between what is a
historical event? What is mythology? Who borrowed what idea from who? And you guys have been looking
into that like crazy. So if I was to ask both of you, what is the one thing that you could impart
that has shifted in your perspective over the last year? What would that be?
Go first, Neil. Do you want me to go first? Okay. So nine months ago, you checked my channel,
I did an interview with Russell Gamerkin and, you know, I just wanted to understand where he was
coming from. I didn't really know much about his approach to these texts. We're talking about the
Hebrew Bible, the Old Testament. Um, and he said some things that I've just never heard before. I
was like, this sounds just off. And so I, you know, went along, I went and got his book,
Plato and the Creation of the Hebrew Bible, and it's peer reviewed by Copenhagen International
Seminar. Um, and like every page is just filled with references to, um, primary sources or, or
other scholars, just it is littered with material. It's very heavily peer reviewed.
And the stuff he's, and then I, instead of, you know, just taking his word for it and believing
it because I want it to be true, decided to check into this stuff. Sorry, reading a lot of Plato,
Republic Book Three, particularly where he, the Laws book where he talks, that's where he compares
this to the Deuteronomy stuff. Anyway, it's all, it all pretty much lines up. Like I can't not
say like, he's right and everyone's wrong, but like what he's saying is plausible. And I think it,
and I, I want to give him more attention because it's very fascinating to think
that it's possible that these, this religion we call Judaism might not be as old as we think, or
not that it's, it just came out of nowhere, uh, in the Hellenistic era, but it sort of evolved into
something slowly over time into what we see it now. That's, you know, those type of ideas. That's,
that's, that's been a big change in my approach to this thing we call Judeo-Christianity in the last
year. Um, for me, I think obviously a huge focus on seeing how much is going on between the Greek
world and the authors of the Bible, Hebrew Bible. Obviously we've been doing New Testament and the
New Testament's written in Greek. It's working within the same cultural historical milieu,
especially the fact that it goes to Gentiles, but I'm speaking in the Hebrew Bible and looking
for scholarship. And I found tons, uh, Americans, one of them among many that are writing about
things that look Greek, look like they, you know, are coming from something like Homer, Hesiod,
um, Plato, uh, some stories or even mythic elements that are paralleled or possibly even
drawing their biblical character using, in some cases you don't know which one was earliest. They
might have a common source. And some scholars take the whole, well, they probably just have a common
source. I'm going to back off on trying to take any genetic connection. And then others who are
saying, actually, no, there's no doubt, for example, that Samson is influenced by Heracles.
And of course, or Melchart. Well, see, this is the thing. That's Semitic too. So I'm just,
no, you're right, but I'm trying to be as honest as possible. Like I'm trying to look at it.
Set about this. This is something I found out. I had someone accuse me and I don't even know
who they were of like being anti-Semitic. I'm like, right. Oh, and I just want to make something
really clear. I'm not saying this. They just got it all from the Greeks and they had nothing
original. No, I mean, there's, I think they are using ancient Hebrew sources.
Well, no doubt. These are ancient legends from Judea. I'm not saying that they all, it's all,
but what I'm saying is what I think it evolves over time and Platonism and Platonism in particular
influences how they approach these ancient texts. And the reason why I think that is not just because
I just made that up. Because I can compare it to the Elephantine texts that we actually have
physical copies of. And these texts are still polytheistic as late as the fourth and fifth century
BCE. So, and these texts show no, no knowledge of, of a Torah. Or so it's like, why, how do they not
like, you know, so all I'm doing is I'm looking at the sources and I'm saying, what's likely like,
what's possible? Like what's going on here? It's all I'm asking. Right. I'm with you on that. So I
guess not saying Greeks are better or anything. I'm just saying this is the time period after
Alexander the Great, you had the Seleucids, but in Babylon, the Ptolemy's in Egypt, the Antigonids in
Greece, it's a Greek world. So Greek laws have to be implemented at some level. They have to influence
called this is all just standard Romans do this too. Persians did this Babylon, Babylon does this
at whoever is in control of the world order will do this. And this is just so that that's that's
what it looks like to me. Just using the Samson thing. When we compare it, there are certain
things in Samson that are not in Melchart. They are not in Gilgamesh that are only in Heracles
and only found within the Greek world. And so unless you want to say there's lost sources,
but if you're that desperate, and this is my accusation to those who get up, you know, all
their upset about these claims, it's like, if you're so desperate to want to go, but what if
there could be a source out there that, you know, really, that was the original source,
you could go that far, but we don't do that on a regular when we see that Genesis is borrowing
from, you know, Mesopotamian stories like Enuma, or we're dealing with Gilgamesh and stuff. So
I'm saying, I think the biblical Hebrew Bible is kind of a rolling text in many ways. And in some
cases, I think some of these narratives are late as hell. Like, I'm looking at Bruce Loudon and
I'm seeing his work and I'm going, okay, this seems to at least be post Babylon, late Persian,
potentially even Hellenistic in some cases pertaining to that. There's a communication
going on between the Greek world and the biblical or the Hebrew Aramaic speakers and writers.
And the biggest accusation comes up when it's like, well, this is actually a proto-Indo-European
language, and that crossover isn't happening. But we know for a fact, without a doubt, the Greeks
were influenced from the East. We know for a fact that Heracles is not originally a Greek character.
They were imported from Gilgamesh. Well, and even double that up, the pre-Socratics,
where a lot of these monist, monist ideas come from, you know, the idea of the RK, the first,
or having water as the beginning of all, like whatever, you know, all these pre-Socratic ideas
that align very, very well, fit very well with what we would call monotheism. These are, these
come from Ionian thinkers living in Turkey, sandwiched right between the Persian and the Greek Empire,
and you had, so they're, they even, the Hebrew and the Plato and some of these people, they talk
about Hittite legends. So there's, obviously, they're not just like broken off in Greece.
They know every, they, these people know Babylonian stuff,
right? Yes. Yes.
Therese of Ceros was one of these pre-Socratics, who they call, they said he's a Phoenician,
Herodotus calls him a Phoenician of remote descent, and his text says he's got these
myths from the Phoenicians. So like, it's going all in different directions. It's not to say the
Greeks are the greatest and everyone's borrowing from them. That's what, I think the accusation,
Neil, you can, you can appreciate, you probably get this too, was like, you're being anti-Semitic,
because David, have I not been telling you the parallels to the Argonauts, to Homer,
to Hesiod, to this, to that are so obvious that they either have a common source or one is using
the other. Yeah. Yeah. People get mad. And then there's, there's the flood narrative where you
get Borosis talking about these different flood narratives, and Dukalion, the Greek story,
is obviously borrowing from that. But in Dukalion, so there's probably a little bit of both going,
because in the Dukalion story, there's no birds being dropped off, no doves, no ravens, like you
get with the archer Hossus myth, which Borosis contains in Greek. But you do get with Dukalion,
three sons, three sons who start the races of the three different, I think they call them
Polescian people, the Thessalians, the Aetolians, and the Achaeans. And there's all the three sons
of Dukalion who start those three different kingdoms. So you do have that going on, just like
Noah's threes. So I'm saying like, is what's, is what happening with the, with the Genesis story,
are they like, looking at all this stuff and sort of coming up with the best story to like
synchronize them? I don't know, I'm just saying, it looks like there's a little bit, a little bit
of everything going on. Well, we have, we have an image from one of you guys behind the scenes,
actually, doing your research. So this was, this is you guys in the manuscripts.
Honestly, the stuff you guys like, I've been watching your content, and I'm like,
it's a little, I actually get a little angry. I'm like, how the fuck have they, like, the stuff
you guys are going into, like, I'm like, I don't even know where to begin. I don't even know how
to like, to grasp ahold of what you guys are even talking about. Like, how are you finding these
sources? These are like, like, are you just reading so much? And then you're just like,
finding these coincidences, or you're reading other scholars? Like, how are you finding these
similarities in the texts? No, they start with, start with the scholars. They start, the scholars
are always guided being the, to what primary sources that, like, if I hear someone like
Kip Davis bring up, you know, some ancient texts, I'm going to go look at it myself,
and I'm going to check it out. And then in that text, there might be a reference to another text.
And I'll just go into these deep rabbit holes. And next thing I know, I'm coming like finding
stuff that I've never heard before. And then I'll bring it. And you know, David, or Dennis
McDonald was talking to me and Derek, and he was like, you two are like, you two are like,
foxes. He's like, us PhD scholars, we are professors, we're like groundhogs,
we are specialized in one area. But in that one area, we can dig under the ground way
past that you can see, you don't even know what's down there. You have no idea. Yeah,
but you are like you, you and Derek are like foxes, you guys can go everywhere on the flat lands
and find all this crazy garbage, not just garbage, it might be some good protein sources,
you bring it back over and we check it out. And like, but like that's sort of that analogy,
I'll never forget it. So it's like, that makes a lot of sense. We are kind of like foxes.
I agree. Everything Neil said, scholars first, you know, if I wanted to get my brain,
let's say I had cancer and I needed something cut out, I'm not going to a voodoo witch doctor,
I'm not going to take some medicine and some, you know, strange place, I'm looking for the experts,
peer reviewed, scientific, observable, fact based type operation and having them an expert on it
explain the brain and how they're going to work on me. I say that to say the best analogy I can
paint is that to saying when we're looking at the ancient languages, the culture, the context and
trying to wrap our heads around the literature. And when you have scholars in the field, we are
foxes. We go from one groundhog to another. And this groundhog says, hell no, that groundhog
is wrong. Right, right. And then this is the groundhog. Oh, fuck him. This groundhog's right.
And I'm right. And they're on my point is, is this stuff is a bit speculative based on what
we're trying to do. And so when people get upset at these observations, me and Neil are making,
get upset with Bruce Loudon, get upset with Dennis McDonald, get upset with look at it.
And David Letwell, get upset with Candy DeMoss about her ideas of persecution before the point is,
we're looking and yes, I have this axe to grind right now in my observations. And I'm sure Neil
feels the same way. How much is going on between what's happening with the Greek stories and the
Bible? And Bruce Loudon famously says at the beginning of this book that scholars, probably
due to the pillars brought up because of faith within academia, and of course outside for sure,
he says they haven't observed and realized that there's no better parallels, no better parallels.
This is coming from Bruce Loudon. He's a classicist and Hebrew Bible scholar,
then to Homer's Odyssey in the Hebrew Bible or Homer in the Hebrew Bible. And I said, wow,
that's a pretty bold claim because we've been hearing Dennis McDonald who's been making these
claims about the New Testament. When you start looking at what he's doing in comparing everybody
from like Joe, Jacob to Joseph to Moses, I just dropped my Moses video. One thing you won't hear
is about the island of Thrunakia with Odysseus and his crew. They're on this island and it's
strangely religious language that doesn't show up often in the Odyssey. You need a classicist who's
aware of this stuff to point it out. And that's what he is. And he says, when you parallel this to
Moses in the Exodus experience going up for 40 days on the mountain to get the laws from God,
there's a golden calf, a bovine creature in both scenarios. One is the cattle to the sun god
and the other one is a bull, a golden calf with Moses and Aaron. Do not eat that the cattle,
because they're starving on Thrunakia in the Odyssey, over here, they're worshiping or they're
going to turn this golden calf and they're going to end up giving honors and worship and whatnot.
Both guys, I parallel in that using Bruce Loudon's work. When you look at these over and over and
it's not just this one, oh okay, so what, two cows. One's gone for 30 days, one's gone for 40 days.
Derek, boom, they're not identical. Shut your mouth. The lack of imagination and the lack of
awareness of how often the narrative does this and complements the other and you're looking at it,
it really blew my mind. It's the sequence of events in the way it's presented, rather than the
certain details that makes, as what I'm seeing here. But I also want to say something real quick
about like another thing we have an advantage of in this day and age is the internet and scholars
that came before said already translated these texts. This was 100 years ago, we'd be on our own
trying to look, trying to find some translated Homer or something like we wouldn't, you don't have
Oxford published on Amazon, you can buy for $10 and then have Homer at your house in three days
and read it. So we have to, I'm standing on the back, I'm standing on the backs of all these amazing
professional scholars that translated all these texts before me. And sometimes I have to appeal
to, a lot of ways I'm appealing to authority by reading these translations, which I will say to
my credit, I am learning Greek, I'm getting pretty decent at it too. I can read texts now and look
up words that I don't know. I'm still not an expert at all. So no way I'm in my train and I'd be able
to translate texts right now. And a little bit of Hebrew myself too. I'm not saying I'm not, I'm just
going to neglect that stuff and just appeal to authority. But I can't check the differences
when I see like one scholar thinks the translation is this, and another scholar thinks translation
is that I actually can check to see what they're both looking at. But what I'm saying is the
long story short is like, we are very, very lucky right now in this day and age to have the internet
and centuries of scholars that have been doing this work and translating these texts that we
can just go and look at. So let's say that we have a person who's jumped on the stream and they're
like, what are these people talking about? This is insane. Let's do this. For one minute, Neil,
can you give us a fundamentalist perspective of the Bible? Like tell us exactly what it is,
like tell us about the Abrahamic government, Jesus, everything. And then Derek, could you
give us the more, what's the word, like a Michael Jones translation, where some things are historical,
some things are, you know, give us that idea of Christianity.
But you want Neil to give it.
Why don't you have Derek go with the exact opposite side of what these Copenhagen
scholars are saying? So we can get both, or do you want, or do you want to actually?
Well, I want to like build the case. I want to like show how Christianity, all of it,
all of these, when we're dealing with these ancient texts, I want to show that there are
different lenses that we can use to go on. So there's a lens that I was brought up in,
in that there were two literal people in the Garden of Eden. They were Adam and Eve and
et cetera, et cetera. And then, you know, there may be this, there are people who believe that,
and there are people who might believe that it was symbolic for something else, right?
And but just try to explain Christianity in less than 60 seconds.
And no, Neil, you do the fundamentalist.
Yeah. You know, Adam and Eve were the first two humans on Earth.
And, you know, they lived in the Garden, and they ate from the Tree of Knowledge, which was bad.
And so because of this, they were kicked out of paradise. And I'm going to speed through it.
I'm not going to go through all the details. It's one of the main events.
Okay. So a man named Abraham, I said, these people populate the whole earth within,
like, it'll shorten all the time magically. And a man named Abraham, living in the city of Ur,
which is in Babylon, decided one day, it isn't he was named Father of Nations.
What a great name to name your child. It just it's historical, trust me.
And his father or his father was like a polytheist. And he was, he just got a vision one day and said,
polytheism is polytheism is bad. And you are chosen to go move to the east. And
you'd be the father of all these nations. So Abraham does this, he travels to Canaan. And,
you know, he goes to Egypt, he has some, you know, some things happen there, long story short,
his, he, you know, he becomes like very successful over there. And because of Abraham,
in his descendants, you have Jacob, and the 12 tribes of Egypt, and they populate the land.
And Joseph goes down into Egypt, and he becomes very, very popular and very famous. And he becomes
the second highest next to Pharaoh. Then a man named Moses comes from a Midianite father,
who was a priest in the Midianites. And he decides that the Israelites in Egypt are being treated
unfairly. So he decides that he's going to take the people of the Israelites out of Egypt, and
they're going to go through the Red Sea. And he performs all these miracles. And there, and we
know these, we know this happened. They're all historical. They're all on the sources. Of course
they are. Of course, we have sources of this. Just, I'll show you later. Don't ask now. I'll
show you later. Just trust me on this one. And then they go through the desert, and they go back
to Canaan, you know, the same place Abraham is at. So they go back to their own land that they
haven't been in in a few centuries. And, you know, they fight these wars and got Moses going back
and forth. Moses goes up to the mountain where Mount Horib or Sinai, depending on which text
you're looking at, I guess. And he's given these commandments. And these commandments are from God.
And Moses brings them back down. And, you know, anyway, as long story short, they find Moses dies
and Joshua has his conquest. And they take over the Canaanites and start this country of Israel.
They don't have a king yet. They have judges at this time. You know, it's a cool period of time
with judges, just some bad things happening. And it's people just, people want a king for some
reason, really badly want a king. And so they get a king and his name is Saul. And he's anointed
by the prophet Samuel. But this Saul is no good. And so David comes up and David is also anointed
by Samuel. And David, he, you know, he's chosen by God to be the king of Israel. And he's playing
his harp for Samuel. And Samuel chases him around for a few centuries or a few decades. And they
have all these fights. But David is always successful against Samuel. And long story short,
is David becomes the king. And then from David is the line of kings through Solomon all the way
down to Josiah. And then all of a sudden, they have the Babylonians come and they conquer Israel.
Oh, no, this, the temple is gone. The temple built by Solomon is gone. And they get brought all the
way to Persia, bring them all the way to Babylon. And they have to stay there for a couple hundred
years or something, something, something like that, right? And so they go back though. Daniel
comes along and writes this text. And he says he's he he predicts the future. He to a T, he just
knows everything that's going to happen. And so he knows that the Persians are going to fall. And
the the the Greeks are going to come and they're going to conquer everything. And well, Cyrus is
going to move them back before that happens, though. So they get their temple back. And this is
second temple period, Zerubbabel and Joshua, the new high priest, and the new governor. He's not a
king, he's a governor, but he is Davidic. So it is kind of cool. It's like kind of like fulfillment
going on here. Anyways, long story short, you got the second temple period. And they're good now.
And they stay that way through the Maccabee period, all the way to the first century. And then Jesus
comes and he preaches and he gets crucified and resurrected. And then the temple falls to 70 AD.
That's the end. Okay. And is and is Jesus like Jesus paid a sacrifice for, you know, the the sins
that we kind of can explain just just quickly, like 10 seconds or 15 seconds. Jesus is kind of a
bet kind of a badass in a little bit. He's kind of going against the grain. He's kind of saying,
you know, these laws that you guys think are so perfect, you don't really understand them,
like I do. It's all about what's in the heart. It's not about what's it's not about the literal
law. Like he literally says not to pick grain on it said, but doesn't really mean that literally.
It means, you know, just, you know, it's in whatever doesn't matter what you put in your
mouth. It's what comes out of it. So he has this like, he has a spiritual approach to the law. And
probably people probably liked it. People probably don't like laws. Who likes laws? Seriously,
it's kind of so the Talmud says that, you know, he led people astray, practiced idolatry and
sorcery. And he was, you know, they didn't like him. They didn't like that. He was badass. He's
a rebel. So Neil's given this one perspective that the Bible is all history. It's all like
things actually happened. Moses actually did part of the Red Sea. The whole earth was flooded
for one year and every living thing died. I forgot about flood. Adam and Eve to Abraham.
Yeah. Yeah. Koala's corral back to Australia along with the kangaroos and the 19 other
endemic spaces. That's all true. Now, Derek, give us, give us a more reasoned,
well, not reasoned, I don't want to remain. Give us, give us an alternative between
that like where some things are mythological, some things historical. Give us that one in
30s, 60 seconds. Yeah. Adam and Eve is most like, well, it depends. It's hard to pin down what I
think he's saying sometimes if we're talking about Michael Jones. But you know, it's not a
young earth creation. It was not 6,000 years ago. You could factor in hundreds of millions or
billions of years into this, or you could just take it as some temple text that is actually
talking about a temple. It's not talking about cosmological creation. Of course, the whole point
is to redeem man probably in some philosophical way. I'm only trying to get strong. I'm trying to
still man, not strong man him. I know that he doesn't take Jonah literally seems more allegorical
in some way. So much of the stories can be allegorical. Sounds like there was probably an
Exodus, you know, for sure, probably Hixos. I can't remember when he pins it. He might go later,
12th, 13th century. But it may not be exactly like the Bible says. So these fundamentalists
need to grow up and get mature and understand their Bibles a little better. So some of this
stuff is historical and you better bet your ass when it comes to Jesus. This literally happened
and these things are true. However, I'll let some of the other stuff slide. And just remember,
it's all about philosophy. So when you get pinned in the corner with something that makes it sound
like mythology, you can just hide into some platonic philosophy. We're gonna face really
Christian because we have the truth and our morality is the truth. We didn't borrow any of
this stuff from the Stoics or the platonic philosophers before, even though they document
much of the activity of morality that we ended up picking up. It was us first. In fact, Justin
Marder actually says that much about the philosophers. Yes, I know they never heard of
Jesus, but they were still Christians because they knew the one that permeated all things.
So ultimately, just study your philosophy and you can get out of any pickle. And if it's, you know,
seems unrealistic, you don't need to die on that hill. The one you need to die on is Jesus,
because he died on a real hill. And on that hill, he was very probably, and he rose,
just being funny. So yeah, so I that that feels very much like a, like both we all seem to straw
man instead of still man, but and that seemed to be a very much about Michael Jones. But it goes
for Jordan Peterson or all those guys who kind of pick what they want. I'm not saying Michael
does this, by the way, Michael's a buddy, but, but maybe you guys can. But for the point is,
what I'm saying is, so there's two perspectives, I think the, the Derek's perspective, the
perspective that some of its mythology, you can, you could make work like it. I think there's no
way a fundamental perspective perspective can work unless you just have to deny everything. You have
to be like a conspiracy theorist like you almost have to be Q and on levels of like crazy. But
I think there can be some wiggle room. Now, with everything that you guys have read,
where do you guys see this? Are people like the story of the Bible? Was there an exodus? Is
what was Jesus representative of some other apocalyptic figure? Was this like, where, where
are these ideas coming from? I mean, this is a big subject. And I expect we'll spend majority of the
conversation talk about this, but are these just memes? You know, there's ideas that start with like
flood and exodus, stuff like that. And the exodus, I can see possibly
the story of the exodus being linked to the Hicksos, not that it's the Hicksos expulsion
being written into them. But like the idea, the Hicksos expulsion being a distant memory that
people in Egypt and in Canaan were aware of and possibly being like used as like a template for
writing a new mythology about an actual Hebrew exodus. I can see that being the case.
Not saying that the Hicksos in the Hebrew, not saying they're the same thing. I'm saying,
I can see there being some sort of link to that. But I don't know, that's as far as that would go
with that. I think it's just mythology in the sense where the Canaanites were controlled by Egypt
for so long, all the way up through the Bronze Age into the Iron Age still, like all the way up
into like 800 BCE, they're still pretty much running the show and they're pretty much being like
trading between the Babylonians and the Egyptians and who's controlling that part of the world.
And so this idea of, so this is the thing. When you look at the Greek sources and Egyptian
sources, there's really not a lot about Israelites. You have the one text that people think from the
1300 BCE, the stone, I can't remember the freaking name of it. It's from Amenhotep's to Third's Reign,
where it mentions like these cities, it mentions like Canaan. And some people think Israel is in
there. What is it called? Manipersal, yeah. And so this, this stele, a lot of scholars think
it's the first mention of Israel. I don't think, I'm not sold on that. I'm convinced, I'm convinced
there's a few academics that think it's talking about Jezreel. The word in Egyptian is Isirir,
I-S-I, or if you would like translate it, Y-S-I-R-I-R. And Jezreel is an ancient Bronze Age city,
which was at one point, the capital in the north. And it might even be possible that
the name Israel and Jezreel connected somehow. I don't know about that. I'm not going to get
into that. But what I think is happening there is they're mentioning this city that we know existed
in the Bronze Age, it's mentioned in tons of sources. And that's what I think happened right
there. Could be wrong. But when we get to like the later Steleys, like 800 BC, there's a bunch of
them that, and then at that point, I think Israel is in a legit kingdom at that point.
But I don't think when we talk about kings, like the idea of kings, right, like they're
ruling this place with like an iron fist, I think it's more like the concept of like,
when you go to England in the medieval era, you have a high king and then there's Yarls.
And the Yarls, they're like kings, they rule their areas. But they're not, they're still gonna,
they're still below the high king of the region. And that high king would either be
whoever's in control at Babylon or control in Egypt, depending on what time period you're in.
Not to say they didn't call themselves kings, but if they really were kings in the sense that we,
like the Hebrew Bible presents them as, you would think Herodotus and some of these historians
like Xenophon would have knowledge of these people, they don't even know who they are,
they never mentioned them ever. So there's probably small kingdoms in the middle between
Babylon and Egypt or the Hittites in the north or whatever, Syrians, whoever it is at the time
period. So I'm not saying, so what I'm saying is it's a historical place that literally exists.
And I'm not, I'll even go as far as saying that the kings are real. Like maybe, I don't know if
Solomon and David are real, who knows. But like after that, I think these kings that start showing
up in the sources like Omri, Hezekiah, there's archeology, archeological evidence that these
people did exist. So that's, that's, I think that's pretty much like a nine out of 10,
you would say these people existed as historical. Now, with that, with that being said, let's,
let's get into the text. Like what I think is going on in this period is just like every other
place in the world at this time period, people worked at many gods. Monotheism is sort of like a
later movement that is influenced, in my opinion, by the philosophical
movements of the time period. The Persians have, the Persians started coming up with Zoroastrianism,
the Greeks, the Presocratics, the Monism and stuff, the Archaea or the Logos, stuff like that.
And so I think that those influences come into Egypt and Babylon and Judea. And I think slowly,
you get an evolution of theology in this region. And by the time we get to the Hellenistic era,
you get a, you get the text, you get the, the Judaism that we know today. But I don't think it,
my opinion is, I think it slowly sort of evolves into that. And so I don't, the idea that like
Moses wrote the Torah and it stayed that way all the way down until the time it got translated into
Greek. It's just complete or other nonsense. Yeah, it's like his own death and even beyond that.
It's like, if this text, be called this text, the Torah, or it's just Genesis by itself,
is a well-written text, somebody very educated, knows sources, knows geography, knows philosophical
stuff. This person is seriously educated or has tons of sources around them. And like this text
was just sitting by itself. And by the way, the idea is, isn't there supposed to be a
theory that there was for a priestly source, a Deuteronomical source, a Yahweh source? And so
you're already saying that there's multiple versions of this text. So if there's multiple
versions of this text, how is it that nobody cites this text until like the 4th century BCE?
To me, that's a big, that's not, you can say that as an argument from silence, but it's like,
but it's a damn good one though, because we have, we have Jewish populations living in Egypt
in the 400s and 500s who have no knowledge of this stuff. So I think that needs to be said.
Are they writing stuff down there? Are they writing? Yeah, we have the, it's all the elephantine
papyri's. There's, there's like hundreds of these texts. And there's, there's multiple, there's
worshiping a bunch of different gods alongside Yahoo, Yahoo, or yeah, and some, sometimes it's
Jove, or Yahweh, or Cunum, and then Osiris is in there, Isis is in there, Mott is in there. It's
just, it's, it's standard Egyptian polytheistic, but it's written in Aramaic, and it's got Yahweh
in there. So it's like, and some of them, some of them, some of them look like Psalms, and some of
these Psalms look like they line up with the Psalms in the Hebrew, so like there is some,
some of the cultural stuff is there. There's enough to be like, okay, these are obviously like,
these are Jews like living in, in elephantine, but like, where's the, where's, where's Abraham and
Moses at? Where's all the, where's all the, where's all the Genesis legends at? None. It's like,
that's, that needs the, something's going on with that. Like, I'm just saying, not saying that these
legends didn't exist. I'm just saying like, why, why aren't they widespread among all these texts
that we have? All I'm doing is I'm looking at the sources and saying, here's what we have, here's
what we don't have, here's what the claim is, but this claim looks kind of ridiculous. And to be
honest, I'm just saying, I could be wrong. I'm all, I'm open for someone to change my mind on this.
Oh, it can open in. And he'll, he'll, he'll correct you on something.
No, I'm kidding. Derek, what do you think about all that?
For me, the biblical text we have, I like what, is it Van Vassilius? I can't remember how you
pronounce his name. It's, I believe German. It could be something else. He wrote a really,
Jan Wim Vassilius. He wrote an interesting book where he parallels Herodotus, his nine books,
because Herodotus wrote his, his histories with nine books to the primary history of the biblical
account we have, the version we have. And he, he made an interesting comment in his book that I
thought was interesting because we get so lost into criticism, textual criticism, form criticism,
different versions of criticism on the text. We want to dissect the text, this parts D, this parts
of E, this parts of P, we want to do all this stuff. And he's like, we need to start with what we have
and then work from there and, and read it in the final form we have, then work backwards.
If we need to dissect something, then we, we should. But until that happens, he's like,
let's read it how we have it. And the, what we have, what looks like in the primary history is
another history of a nation, a national constitution from similar to what we see with Plato in a way,
where he talks about, go all the way back into antiquity. Your nation needs to, from the start,
have pedigree with the divine. So from the very outset of creation, this God, this archaic,
infinite way into the past divine being needs to have chosen your nation, your people, from
amongst all peoples. And this is exactly what we find with the Athenians and what we find in,
in other histories around this period transitioning from the Persian going into the Hellenistic age.
And what we see is this kind of, this arch narrative, and I know this skips over a lot of bumps
along it. Like you were saying, documentary hypothesis, maybe there are several forms of
literature that is being compiled, that's already being, that's around at the time, that's being
utilized and then creates what we call the Bible. But that arch narrative all the way to the fallen
nation, where they, they ask for a king like they shouldn't have exactly what Plato talks about as
well, kings are no good, the Greeks aren't fans of kings. Like there's a lot of that. But guess what?
Look at the ancient Near East. You will never find them condemned kingship. They are all for kingships.
So where are they getting this idea of not having the king? Unless there is some influence as
several scholars we've been talking about, see from that Greek world. What I see with the biblical
text as we have it is here is another national corpus bringing in all sorts of stuff from Samaritans,
Mesopotamian, Ugaritic, clear stuff. Like with, with Mott, you see the idea of low 10 and, and
various different types of strange Near Eastern deities, Egyptian myth. And of course, I would say
from the Greek world as well. But I see all of this stuff being, it's by some brilliant author
who's incorporating these different things, different law codes. By the time you get into
Deuteronomy and Leviticus and stuff, they're, they're pulling from all sorts of places.
And that makes me question, is this a rolling situation here where
over time people are picking up different things and kind of keeping it as part of their stuff?
Or are they later on with several sources being able to incorporate all this stuff? And they're
bright enough to do it and they have the resources to do it. We don't know for sure.
Dr. Kip Davis brought up an interesting point in the chat earlier. He said,
I would need to see more Greek loan words to be more persuaded. And I understand that that's
something I don't even know because I'm not a linguist, but these people I'm reading.
That's a fair approach though. I would ask the same thing in the reverse, right? Like, yeah,
okay, I see enough. Let me paint it this way, Neil. And David, I see enough parallels between
what's happening in Greek story myth and biblical myth to say somehow, I don't know how,
somehow, someone knows something that is so similar to that other something being Homer,
the, Hesiod, the Greek myths, somewhere, somehow they are, they have so much in common,
someone is borrowing or getting awareness from the other side. And I would reverse it too and say,
okay, if the Bible is not borrowing from them, then we need to go to these Greek myths and look
for some Middle Eastern loan words. Because if they're not there, then the argument one way or
the other doesn't work. So it can't be, well, there's no way the Bible authors could be using
these Greek stuff because we don't have loan words in the Greek. What if we don't see those also over
in the other side? So what if these authors were aware enough to be able to incorporate into their
own tongue stories they understood because they were bilingual or something? I don't know. Yeah,
there's so many. And that's the thing because like it's not necessarily that it's a translation,
it's that the text is being written as a new text, a native text in Hebrew with, in a location,
if it's in, if it's in Alexandria, under Ptolemy, then you would have sources in Egyptian,
you'd have sources and like demonic Egyptian texts, you'd have Greek texts, you'd have,
you'd have every, you'd have all types of different texts there. And I'm not, I'm just like put,
I'm just like thinking in my head how it would go up or go about. But one of the things that
really changed my mind on all of this was the laws. Because I used to, when I, when I was talking to
Khmer, Khmer, nine months ago on my channel, I said, is it possible that maybe like the mythologies
that you're talking about, like Genesis, from the Greeks, but not the law code? What about I for
an eye and tooth for a tooth? Like that's Babylonian, that's from the, that's from Hammurabi's code,
obviously that's Babylon. And he told, like, so he, this is, that's when I got this book right here.
And it's like, it's got all of Solon, like, like, or like Hergis, the Spartan king. And these are the,
the law, these are the famous law codes of the Athenians. And it, he lines them up with some of
the stuff that's in like Deuteronomy and Exodus. And it's like, there's so much in common. There's
so much in common that it's like, something's there. And that's one thing to point out. There's
a lot of laws in common between Solon and the Hebrew Bible. But is it enough to say that,
you know, whatever, something's going on here? Well, let's look at the Romans. The Romans created
what's called the 12, the 12, 12 tables. And there was a famous law code from somewhere around
like 400 BCE, that was put together, based off Solon's law codes. So we have evidence of Romans
borrowing from the Greeks. Okay, that's something. But here's another thing. What's the political
situation going? What's the political situation in 300 BC in Egypt? The Greeks are conquering.
There was just a giant war in Gaza between Ptolemy and the son of Antigonus Demetrius.
And they were fighting over that region where Judea is, they fought in Gaza. Ptolemy whooped
them. This is, Plutarch writes a really good story about this where he says, Ptolemy defeated him so
badly, wiped out his army, destroyed all of his naval ships. He was done. They had him surrounded.
And Ptolemy just wanted to show him how much of a bet because Ptolemy is an older guy. Demetrius
is young. Ptolemy was one of the generals for Alexander the Great, with Demetrius' father,
Antigonus. So he looks at this guy like a little, little kid. And he walks up to, this is what
Plutarch says. And he's like, I'm going to give you all of your war chest back. And I'm going to
reinstate your army. And I'm going to give you, he gives it all back to him. He says,
try again in another year. We'll see you. We'll see you later. It was like, it was like just
badass Ptolemy, just being like, I feel bad for your kid. Here, get out of my land. And so he
controlled, the long story short, here's why I'm bringing this up is he's in control of Judea. And
then at this point, Ptolemy imports, I don't know how many, like hundreds of thousands of slaves
from Judea and brings them all to Egypt. And so you got to think like the, whatever the educated
class is, is probably going with him to the library. So you have, now you have, you control
Judea. You're a Greek king that controls Judea. What do you think's going to, what do you think
is your, your main objective is to implement laws for that region? I'm just, I'm just, what I'm
saying, what I'm getting at is you have a motive to do this. So a clear motive to do this.
Neil, let me, let me make one comment that I think is necessary because
off the cuff and me not being a linguist, you having more awareness of the language than I do,
but even you are not a linguist. This, this is a great point that's brought up. But let me just
put something I think we can all have common setting, like common footing, I mean, for us,
that goes for you, me, Kip, everybody, what I like to see Kip do is get convinced there's too
much in common going on. Someone, somehow we need to explain this and we may not know exactly how
to explain it. You may not be persuaded because there's not loan words. Cool. I want you to see
those parallels that are so obvious. There's so many. It's not just parallel Armenia and then
sequential, they're unique. They're not like that. That's what really persuaded me about Bruce
Loudon. I'd love to see those things, but here's my conclusion, David. And this is at the end of
the day, whoever borrowed from who doesn't matter, but this is important. This helped me categorize
what kind of genre we're dealing with. It doesn't matter who borrowed from who, when, where, how,
you can see enough of the linguistic or even the narrative structure and how it is formatted
to see that we're dealing with myth. So when I'm looking at Heracles and I see all the attributes
I see for Samson, I'm walking away going, that dude is a myth. Samson is no doubt a constructed
fictional character with what we're reading. Was there a guy named the little son in Hebrew
who ran around and fought Philistines? Maybe. Does that even matter at this point? No, and I don't
think it's provable any way, either way you put it. You know what I mean? So let me, let me just
get in here really quickly. You guys, when I'm putting up books, I'm going to add them to
the Deep Drinks recommended reading, which is link, I'll link it right now, but all the books
that we cover on Deep Drinks are in this list. It's a big, big, beautiful list. I sound like
Trump then. The big, beautiful list. I can't do it. I got the best list. This list is the greatest
list. This is the greatest list. Yes. Not a better list. So I'll be adding that throughout the show.
So whenever these guys bring up a book, I'll add another version, but another
copy to the list so you can get everything you see here will be on the list. Oh my gosh,
think, David, think. But what I wanted to ask Derek and Neil is this is where,
you know, as a non-expert, as someone who's still like grasping the kind of concepts you
guys are trying to talk about, I'm wondering whether or not, like, how these ideas are being
transmitted between groups. So for example, like, it's very curious to me that when the
Buddha becomes enlightened, what does he start teaching? He teaches reincarnation. Why? Because
everyone in his realm of influence, reincarnation was just a given. It wasn't like even a religious
idea. It was just part of the, well, you could argue it was religious, but it was part of the
zeitgeist of the time. You don't see anyone, you know, and the same with the stuff in Jesus
comes to power. He's very similar to a lot of the ideas that were around. He's an apocalyptic
preacher, for example. So, but if you go to, like, Aboriginal Australians, they don't have myths
about, like, a messiah figure or anything like that. They're in a completely different
culture, concept. So I'm wondering whether or not, like, what ideas literally, like,
like, you know, a trader comes through and he tells the story and gets developed over time.
Yes. Sharing ideas. Or I'm wondering if the Mediterranean world and Mesopotamia are in the
east. They're so connected. Well, connected. But I'm wondering how much of it is also
psychological such evolutionary, you know, the hero narrative. Sure. You know, there's,
there's lots of things that's like, well, this looks very similar to this one. Is it possible
that they're both just hero narratives that have this interesting twist? You know, it's kind of
the Freudian, you know, Freud tried to make this kind of this kind of like it's like subconscious
that all of us have this inherent desire or interest in immortality. And therefore, we're
all going to have these kind of same mythic tropes, because psychologically, we all have the
subconsciously. That may be the case in some ways. They talk about pyramids, right? Well,
how do these people in South America come up with pyramids? And guys over here in, you know,
Egypt have the same pyramid type structures. And we now discover one of the easier things to
build would be a pyramid type structure. We're going to make something as vertical as you can to
the heavens. But as far as this goes, Neil, I think you touched on it, Neil made the point,
there is clear communication happening. And even if you take the biblical narrative like a fundamentalist,
you brought it up earlier, you have to admit Philistines and Hebrews, which Philistines would
have been they would have been Proto Indo European in some way. Okay, these people are neighbors.
I think they were well, technically, aren't they related? Yeah, because I think they came from the
Minoans, they're like Greek people, they're like connected to the Greeks. But technically, that
would be connected in some sense, Proto Indo European, because the Greeks do come from Proto
Indo European. For the longest time. Yeah, I get why you said that. Okay. Yeah, but like most
the scholars I talked before example, we'll say the influence that Samson got was probably
from some Philistine Goliath type myth. And then that's what inspired the Samson story instead
of Heracles. Then other scholars see so much in common with Heracles, and they say, well, we
have a good reason to think Heracles or Hercal or some form of Heracles existed into the 12th,
13th century BCE, maybe somehow that influenced the biblical narrative and at some point then,
but we have no story of Heracles that goes that far back. But we have good reason to think the guy
was around in some way, shape or form. And then you have Heraclitus, Heraclitus says that like,
there's 10 different Heracles all over the place. Right. So you have that too. So there already
is that idea, there's different kinds. There's already that idea, but as far as the stories we
have and the things that are detailed about Heracles, the scholar that I looked at is a
publication in 1987 and then also 2006 one. And that was recommended to me from Seth El Sanders.
So and Sanders pointed me to Jarek Zokovic, who draws a very interesting biblical approach,
but also thinks there's a lot in common here with Heracles. And that should be explored further.
But Othnil, the name of the scholar from 1987 that I would recommend is Dr. Othnil Margolith.
So Othnil Margolith, M-A-R-G-A-L-I-T-H-S or Margolith without the S.
I mean, there's so much, but like they're communicating, they're interacting,
they are trading with one another. And in some way, you have to admit that the communication
is happening at least in one direction, but most likely both because the Greeks even well before
we talk about Plato, well before Hellenism, are already adopting Eastern ideas. Dukalion.
This flood story in Greece makes no sense. It makes sense if it's moved from the east,
where the Euphrates River would have flooded, and they adopted a flood myth culturally,
they adopted this from the east. And most of the classicists and scholars who studied this
say that the Greeks adopted their flood stories from the Enuma Elish, you know,
the Gilgamesh epic from the east, from Mesopotamia. So Mesopotamia influenced the Greeks when people
were throwing the anti-Semite rhetoric. I'm like, what do you mean? Like I'm admitting the Greeks
borrowed from everywhere and needed these other guys, but I'm saying I think the Bible we have
today, the version we have today, there's so many reasons I think to look and actually evaluate the
case of saying how much did the Greek world influence the biblical authors? And so this
isn't me saying that. I'm saying that, but like this is scholars that I'm reading who are saying
that. It's not malicious either. It's not like they're not like, let's steal it from the Greeks.
Like it's not like that. It's just like these ideas are floating around and it's like, let's
adopt this for our own or like, you know, let's retell this story and it changes over time. And
yeah, not only that, look at how they, I make this point, Genesis, we know is using Mesopotamian
flood myth. We have good reason. I mean, Noah lets the bird go three times the same way we see
in Udunapishtim and scholars appointed intertextuality that seems to signal enough to say there's a
genetic connection. We know the borrowing would have been from the biblical author from Mesopotamian
sources. Guess what? The Bible never sources anywhere where they get their ideas. They just
quote it. Greeks were good about at least saying, Hey, the Phoenicians said such and such and the
Egyptians said such and such. And I'm saying, where's the Hebrews? Where are the Jews? Where is
Israel? Where are you quoting them? Are you going to blend them in and say, Oh, by the way, they're
the Persians because they were this, I've heard this argument, by the way, Neil. Well, they were
Persians at the time they were under the Persian Empire, even though they were Jews, or they were
Babylonians, huh? I was going to say, I'm fine with that because then that makes them into like
Yarls under the High King Cyrus, right? That's just think about how long it takes to ride on
papyrus. I mean, like, it's like, you're not going to bother quoting your sources. It's like,
Oh, God, like, we're gonna have to like, get the papyrus, make the papyrus, get the ink. Like,
it's sort of the whole thing. Like, they're not going to spend time. Well, you need an educated
class with the book of some sort of library or a building where this place can take place. It's
not like you're just sitting outside, random, like pulling up papyrus up from the Nile River,
or just riding on. It doesn't work that way. It's not like it takes a systematic like, a system to
get this stuff done. But like, I cut you off there, but I just wanted to say something I was
going to say. Oh, so I always mention this, and it's going to sound kind of like an argument from
silence. And in a way, it is all meant that. But Herodotus is going out of his way to mention
every single kingdom that he knows about. He's all the way in India. He's all the way in Russia.
He's all the way in Sudan, in Africa, naming all the tribes down there. He's mentioning the Arabians.
He's mentioning the Fitlup, mentioning the Phoenicians, the Syrians, Egyptians. It's like,
where's Israel? Where's Judea? And this is in 450 BCE, supposedly after they already came back
from Persia. So it's like, where is it? And I get it. It's an argument from silence, sure.
But Herodotus is going all out of the place. And he's even mentioning places that might not even
be real. He mentions these famous people in the north called the Hyperborians. And there's men
with one eye up there. Even if it's legendary, he's throwing it in the text. And there's no
stone left unturned in this text. And I know it's an argument from silence, but it's one that
I'm wondering what is causing him to miss that. So let me just make one point about that. And
oftentimes Greeks, sometimes even Herodotus, we've seen him do this, where he'll go to a place in
Babylon, mention about the temple prostitute actions. And he'll say, well, this temple,
which was the name of some other goddess, which we Greeks call Aphrodite, right? So notice how
he's already making it kind of a Greek correlation because he wants to... I made this argument in
my video that Herodotus, he mentions this random Arabian tribe located in the Sinai region. And
he says they only worship two gods, Dionysus and Aphrodite. And I pointed it out. And like,
he even talks about one of their rituals where they cut their hand with blood and sprinkle it on
an altar seven times. You find that that's in Deuteronomy. Well, it's not exactly the same.
They didn't do it. They used an animal to do it. I think there is one where they do cut their hand,
but I think that's a whole different thing, though. I think there's a bell.
It's when you find Milju in your house. Yeah, I think it was the bell worshipers that were doing
that. So what I'm saying is there's some cultural thing going on where I think Herodotus is actually
writing on this region, not the Israelites in particular. I'm not saying that he's getting...
He's, oh, those are them. But I'm saying whoever these people are, it's a close proximity to this
region possibly. Is this history? Is my cousin James just keeps telling me to read it? Is it Herodotus?
Yeah, yeah, that's amazing. Yeah, okay. Amazing text. It's nine volumes. It's huge. He just takes
you on a journey of legends that goes from myths to history to... It's just all over the place.
In the longest time, I thought it was like a new book, like Mythos. And I was just like,
I was like, oh, yeah, I'll get to it. And he's like, no, dude. This is like, oh, I'm like, oh,
what? Like it's... Get the Robert Strassler edition. You put that on your list right now.
It's the best edition. It comes with maps and commentaries and citations to go along with it.
It helps you along the way. Oh, yeah. That's the landmark. It's got a really good, really thick
index too. You got to get the Robert Strassler edition. Yeah. Okay. It's on the list in the thing.
I have... I don't know if you guys are keen for this. Well, it's my show, so...
No, but what I want to do is... I'm the man, all right? Everyone subscribe.
So I got 15 Christian Theologies, okay? Okay. And they... I tried to make them as
broad as possible to tell the story of Christianity. I'm going to say one, and then I want to see if
you guys can give me where that myth might have come from or if it came from somewhere else or
if it predates Christianity. So I'll give you one thing of... I'll try and tell the story of
Christianity and just say, give me the name. We don't have to... We can go right into it if you
want. Theology? Theology or idea or concept or... I'll give you the first one.
What could have influenced it possibly? Yeah, like before Christianity was there,
I did be responsible for the creation of humanity using earthy elements.
So God made men out of dust. Yeah.
Prometheus creates Dukalion... Is it Dukalion? From clay, and then he breathes...
That would be early. That's... I mean, you might have the question, though. Who came first, right?
Is it the creation story you're talking about, Neil, or is it the biblical one?
I've heard that Prometheus comes from Anki.
Well, that's exactly what I was going to get at, because in the older Mesopotamian myth,
the gods make humans by actually killing one of the gods. And I can't remember... One of the gods
defied... They defied the rest of the council or something. They end up killing them and using
the blood and mixing it with mud and end up creating mankind or something to this effect.
So they make them out of mud, out of clay, out of dirt. And that's way, way back in Mesopotamia.
There's an orphic creation story about Dionysus. When he was killed by the Titans...
And this is... They call him Zagreus in this text. When Zagreus was killed by the Titans,
Zeus got so mad that he killed them all with his lightning bolts and then used their
dead flesh and blood and mixed it with the flesh of Dionysus' dead body and created the world and
humans with that. And then it says... This is a different version of the creation. And it says
that humans are a mixture of Titans and Dionysus. Our good soul is from Dionysus,
and our bad flesh is from the Titans. Isn't that a wild one, right? So that brings Dionysus
becomes like a beginning, in the beginning type of God. For those who are curious, because I mentioned
the Mesopotamia, this is Stavrakapulu. And so when she talks, you listen. Clay-shaping bodies had long
been a ritual activity undertaken by both gods and mortals. In a Sumerian myth, the ingenious
God Inki, as you pointed out now, and the birth goddess Ninma had crafted the first humans from clay,
peopling their temples, farms, and fields with worshipers devoted to their service in a relation,
in a related tradition. The goddess mommy chanted an incantation as Inki trod the clay
for her to shape into people. At Ugarip, it was a process similarly performed by El, and this is
the El that you bring up in Eusebius, Nyl, who had made an exorcism goddess from clay to Cure King
Quote, I shall create a remover of sickness, an expeller of disease. In quote, he fills his hands
with the best of clay. He pinches off that which is used by a potter. Meanwhile, in Egypt, the God,
this is the one I wanted to point out, the God most frequently associated with the creation of humans
was Knum, or Knum, who crafted all living things, including some gods on his potter's will. You
are the master of the will. That happens with Patah, too. They're interchangeable,
depending on what city you're in in Egypt. Right. Quote, you are the master of the will
who is pleased to model on the will. You have made humans on the will. You have created the gods.
You have modeled the small and large cattle. You have formed everything on your will each day in
your name, Knum, the potter. In quote, think about that. The potter's will or the potter's clay we
hear about in Romans later. We're talking about forming them from one vessel from common use.
This is an old, ancient way before your Bible, gods. Yeah, that's Bronze Age stuff, dude. Ancient,
yeah. That was your first question. This is exactly what I wanted. A catastrophic event
separating men from gods, like ostracizing men, humanity.
Humans fucking up, essentially. Yeah, you get the Sumerian, obviously, with...
Humans won't shut up. Yeah, that's probably the oldest one we're going to come up with.
What's not Enki? Enki's the one who protects the mortals.
Enki, I thought it was Enki and Aya. Enlil's the one who distributes the punishment.
Yeah, that's what I said. Enlil's the one who does the punishment. And then Enki and Enlil
are interchangeable, depending on like Sumerian or Cady and stuff.
I thought it was Aya. Yeah. But that's the one that comes to mind. I mean, I don't know of the
Egyptian. I'm sure they're there because there's always something. But what's cool about the Sumerian,
the Egyptian, the Ugarit, the whole nine, they're super sexual. I mean, like everything is sex.
Oh, we forgot about the Greek story with Zeus. Zeus does the same thing Enlil does.
And we already mentioned that Prometheus is like Enki. Well, in the same case,
Enki or Prometheus tells Dukalion, Zeus is about to end the whole world. That's right.
And it's going to go right towards Atlantis first. That's the first place to get hit.
And so you better jump into a chest. He calls it a chest, which is just, you know, whatever, it's an
ark. And you and your wife better get in there. And I don't think there's anything about animals
or something. He does bring his three sons along with him, though.
You brought this up to me the other day, Enlil. And I can't remember exactly,
but they're the ages in the Greek myths. Yeah. In the God's golden age, young humans.
Was that the golden age when God's dwell among humans? The golden age was when Saturn ruled the
world before Zeus. And during this age, everybody had had infinite amount of resources. No one had
to work. You just couldn't just hang out and drink wine all day and like war. Right. Yeah. And then
when Saturn gets cast down, depending on what story, some cases he gets cast down to Rome.
And then in other cases, he gets cast down to Hades and becomes the king of Elysium,
which is sort of like a proto heaven. Because in Hades, the bad people go to Tartarus is in the
south down bad. And then the, and then Hades, you have, you have where like Pluto or Hades is with
Persephone and they judge the dead and then they get reincarnated. But there's another place in the
north called Elysium. And that's where all the good gods and heroes go. And that's where you do.
That's like paradise. It's like you go to the golden age. But yeah, so that golden age is from,
from that. And then there's, then there's different ages and it goes all the way down to like,
I forgot the copper or whatever he says that it's like one of the weaker metals. And then he's like,
that's this is the age we're in now. Right. And it's like, everyone has the toil every day for food.
Yeah. Hesiod adds the age of heroes, by the way, sneak peek, I got a documentary coming out on
the book of judges. And I had it written by a buddy of mine who has a channel called Inquisitive
Bible Readers. So you'll want to check that out. He helps script it. He parallels the book of judges
to the age of heroes. Because chronologically, it doesn't fit. And I'm talking about like,
if you were taking the sequence of the biblical narrative, it doesn't fit chronologically. And
there's some interesting things that you're going to want to see like Gideon, 300 soldiers fighting
against 140,000 people or something like that in the Bible. That's absurd. But guess what? We've seen
a movie called 300. And it's Leonidas. It parallels Gideon parallels Leonidas. There's so many in the
book of judges. Just wait till you see. Oh, everyone should go subscribe to MythVision and
Gnostic Informant if any of this stuff is interesting to you guys. Like the content is just like,
someone said it, Neil. Where was it? I think it's this one. I was watching it and I was reading
some of the comments. But someone said it here and I couldn't agree more. I cannot believe the
quality of work you were doing. And that's for like both of you guys. Nobody's talking about this
stuff outside of academia. It's just, it's just incredible. Like you guys are just like
pumping out some of the most insane stuff. And of course, MythVision. Like you guys are just,
like the stuff you guys are covering is just, is so unique. Oh, I just remembered something
and I don't want to lose my, by the way, thank you for that. I appreciate that. But I just thought
of something and there's another, Hesiod gives another account of creation. And it's Hephaestus
this time. And the first woman he creates is Pandora. And then Pandora, it's like just like
Eve. She opens up the box and all reality has changed at that point. You know how they blame
Eve for everything? Yes, they blame Pandora for ruining the world. Yes, they blame Pandora.
That's another one. And she's the first woman. She's the primordial woman, by the way. And then
there's also a pre-Socratic idea of a Monad. The Monad is the original God that is uncreated,
unbegotten, perfect, always being there. He creates a Duod, which is a male, which is
splitting off into a female. And you're almost wondering, is that because this is not a myth
or anything. This is just a philosophy. It's not like some Homer is saying this. These are
pre-Socratics writing this down, Pythagoreans. And you're almost going to wonder, is this getting
applied into the Adam and Eve story? Maybe? I don't know. I can't prove that. But it is kind of odd
that you have a God who's unbegotten who creates mortals from one and two, splits them in half,
and then creates them female from the male. And you and me are trying to take, we're jabbing at
that question. And one can say, well, I don't think one's borrowing directly from the other. Maybe
there's a common source. Again, I don't care where you land on this. But what I do want to get people
to start seeing, because they're going to catch on that disagreement, right? People are going to go,
well, look, Kip doesn't agree with you guys that this one borrows from that one. Okay.
Giving you an example so that the field isn't divided out the gate, because I would recommend
anyone who disagrees, read all these books first, then disagree. And if you disagree, cool.
You won't read this. I can promise you this. You won't read this, walk away and not see the genre
type. You won't walk away reading this and saying, all right, I get it. This is myth. Even if I don't
think this borrowed from that or whatever your opinion is, you won't say that one's history.
And the rest that looks like all of this genre we're comparing it to, that one's myth, but my
Bible's history here. No, it's not going to happen. And let me start realizing that more.
And let me add to what you're saying, because I'm not, I don't have the expertise to
read Gomerkin's Plato in the Hebrew Bible and try to refute it. Like I'm reading it and he's
pointing out stuff. And I'm like, whoa, whoa, yeah, I'll check it. Whoa, he's right. Oh,
and so I'm, I really would love to see a scholar, a PhD expert, like pick this thing apart and see
if they can, oh, here's what he's wrong on. Or I would love to see that. Because I, as far as I
know, no one has yet. None of this is done with mythology. This is all the laws. It's just the
laws he's dealing with here. He's only the Deuteronomy, Exodus, numbers, laws. And it's,
there's all, it's really, really a lot of stuff here. So I'm just saying, like I'm, I would love
to see someone try to do that. Both I added now to the, the list, the next, the next one. Okay,
so we've got the, the, you know, man creating gold creating man out of dirt or humanity out of dirt,
then the catastrophic exit of Eden, that now a mechanism or act that provides redemption
from wrongdoings. Okay, so when the initiation in the ancient Orphic and also Ellisonian mysteries,
you get initiated, you get told, when you get initiated in Ellisonian mysteries,
you get told a secret code. And the secret code is when you go down to Hades, after you die,
you have to follow these instructions. For example, Ellisonians do this. You have to
the Orphics, I mean, the Orphics tell you when you die, you got to remember this,
you're going to, when you're dead, you're going to be really thirsty because you just died. And
you're going to be taken down in Hades, you're going to see a big lake of pure, clean water.
Don't drink it. Because if you drink that water, you're going to lose your memory. It's called the
lake of forgetfulness. Then you have to skip that and go along and travel miles. It's going to
suck, but you got to do this. If you want to get re, if you don't want to get reincarnated,
this is what you got. This is what you get saved. You go and you find these people and you tell them,
I am a son of heaven and earth, Gaia and Aranos. And when you say that to them, they will show you
where the lake of memory is. You drink from that lake of memory, you keep your soul, you're saved,
you go to Elysium, which I just talked about, it's the paradise. And then you get to live with
Saturn and Achilles for eternity. And Dionysus is drinking wine all day. There's a sale. So
literally, it's literally a textbook on how to get saved. Okay. So this is pre as well, is it?
Pre what? Pre-Christianity? Pre-Christianity. Oh, wait. 400, 500 years before Christianity.
Okay. So that actually answered the next one, which was specific conditions or
prerequisites to access this redemption. Don't drink from the lake, right?
Dude, this is exactly what I'm trying to show you. Well, I didn't know this. This wasn't like
I had the answers. I'm asking you guys. I'm wanting to see if it actually does line up.
I've heard people tell me that the Orphics were the first to come along and to be concerned with
the soul after death. Like this is really what the Orphics were like, bringing to the table.
What about what happens after we die? Whereas before that, it was just like,
we're all going to go to Hades and we'll see what happens. But the Orphics were like,
no, we need to figure out a way for salvation, for the soul to go on past death. That idea
is definitely Orphic. And real quick, Derek, when we go to Alexandria, in the same period
we've been talking about, between 300 and 100 BCE, that period, where there's a big clash between
Hebrew and Greek, the Orphics are in the middle of all of that. And so, Aristotle, Philo, all these
Greek Jewish, Jewish, Greek-speaking, Greek-writing people from these time periods, they love Orpheus,
and they're saying Orpheus is one of our prophets. And Derek, you've seen this in the sources.
James Charlesworth produced the pseudo-pigger for text, and it's all in there.
No, I want to emphasize something that I think is interesting about your question, David,
and then the way that Neil answered it. So, read your question one more time.
Let me just bring that up. A mechanism or act that provides redemption from wrongdoing,
and then the next one was specific conditions or prerequisites to access this redemption.
So, he didn't have that question yet, but what's interesting is either way,
the way that Neil read that was through that Hellenistic, or even, when I say Hellenistic,
I'm speaking Greek, I don't necessarily mean Alexander later, I'm just simply saying Greek,
Hellenized, Hellenist, Hellenist. Could be classical age too.
Yeah, but what's interesting is the way that Neil, you could tell he's absorbing so much of the
Greek stuff and going deep into the Greek, Roman, philosophical schools that really are the prerequisite
to what we see in Christianity. The way he read that was on salvation of the soul or the idea of
the afterlife, and what's interesting about the way I was perceiving and answering it since I was
thinking old, old, old, was I was thinking how the evolution of what we call salvation takes place.
We have these really old stories like the Adapa myth, where Adapa is, you know, he's a servant of
Inki or Ea, depending on the source, he's fishing, the boat flips over because the south wind comes,
knocks him down, he curses the south wind for seven days, Enlil's pissed off. Who the hell broke
the wing of the south wind? Call him up to the carpet, bring him to heaven. We need to talk to
the sky. Inki's saying, don't drink or eat the food of death, but really it's immortality. So like
there's already hints in this extremely old literature that humans are desiring immortality.
They want salvation, they want to not die, but they know they have to face it. So they create
these myths, etiologies, stories about why they didn't get it. In this case, Inki deceived us and
tricked us, but it's because he wanted us to have the knowledge of the gods. Or in another case,
a woman ate the fricking fruit, so they want to blame the girl, or Pandera, Pandora's box,
the whole nine. My point is, is like, it was cyclical salvation. There was ways in which they
say, like Gilgamesh says, you can have immortality by building a city, leaving your fame, your
renown, let the world know and carry on your heritage. There's other ways in which salvation
might be like Egyptian myths. You'd be buried with certain things, having certain knowledge
to traverse the underworld. The point is, is like the Christianity wants to capitalize and
monopolize, like modern apologists, we have salvation. And they act like there is no other
thing or other stories of grace, stories of salvation, except in Christ. And Neil has like,
in that context, because I'm talking before you get to that stage in history, where people thinking
afterlife and philosophical postmortem, you know, ideas of salvation, I'm thinking they're more
concerned about being saved from a nearby enemy. How do I stay alive longer? So I don't die by this
storm that's coming or by this army that's about to come crush us. These guys are thinking,
okay, I can't wait to die so that my life starts. And it's like, what the hell, something happened.
There's a change of mind. And Neil's answer was interesting, just to point out, way before Christianity,
you can think the philosophers, you can think those who thought about these things way before
what Christianity ended up adopting and did not have a monopoly on the Christians who say they did,
or they have a monopoly on this, we have the moral code, we have the truth. They're just not
thinking they're ancestors in thought, which comes from those philosophers.
And the Romans have a system of there's three different types of souls that you have like,
I think it's called like DV or something, where if you like, if you're like a Caesar was one of
these, like, when you die, and you're such a great heroic figure, you go, your body floats up to the
top, and you go in the heavens with the gods. But most people, they sort of go down towards
Hades, and you go to Pluto. And there's like, there was one in between, I forgot what that one's
called, but they have three different classifications for like, your soul. So they're already,
they're already dealing with this and they're, and this is Roman Republic era stuff. So
different versions of all this stuff everywhere you go.
Dude, the other day flying away, Neil, I'm sorry, David, I had to just say this. It's so weird.
We just watched the Gladiator movie the other day, right? Again, I used to watch it as a kid.
Forget that. Cool movie. What a classic. The Gladiator, you know, the famous well-known movie.
We watched it again, and there's a scene right at the beginning. He's like praying, and then all
of a sudden he looks and the birds just fly away. And the other day I'm driving home, Neil, and I
saw birds just fly away. And you go, what the hell, Derek? Birds? Who cares? Neil, what is that
technical religious thought where they observed the birds and the...
Augury.
Augury.
Dude, they were so into some stuff that like, I would have never known this watching the scene
where the music hits just right in Gladiator. That was a deeply religious moment in that movie.
And I did not know that.
An augur priest, their job is to look at birds or lightning, which is, I don't know why both
of those. It's like basically you're looking at the sky for portents. And if a dove flowed by,
that was a good...
In the direction counted.
Everything.
Direction, everything counted. Yeah, they had different weird classes of priests,
hero specs. You know what their job was? To check the entrails of a sacrificed animal.
They would put their hands in this bloody carcass and feel around in there and go,
Yeah, I think the war, the intense...
Oh, I just felt something weird. Oh, don't invade them.
In August, I feel in the section of August, something's coming in August. I'm not even
hitting you.
Yeah, that is, that is amazing. I was just going to say, my thought was stupid though.
Have you seen the movie Knocked Up? Another movie Knocked Up?
Well, yeah, I think it's Knocked Up.
Which is his name?
Jonah Hill.
And yeah, yeah, it's a good one.
It's a good one.
No, Seth Andrew. No, Seth...
Seth Rogan.
Seth Rogan.
Yeah, yeah. There's a scene where one guy's talking about how his granddad died or something.
And he's like, and the flame flickered. Jonah Hill's like, I think it's Jonah Hill.
He's like, you don't go through a flame to get to heaven, dude.
He's like, your grandpa's in hell.
And he's like, shut up, man.
Anyway.
Okay, next one.
A central figure believed to be divine or divinely chosen?
I mean, this is a lot of those ones.
You can go Hammurabi. I mean, how far back do we want to go?
See, Augustus, Alexander the Great.
Alexander the Great went to Egypt and he just went through the desert and went to the
temple of Amon in the middle of the Siwa Desert, almost near Libya.
It's like, it's west of Egypt.
And he went there and they said, we just got an oracle from Amon.
And he says, today you have been begotten by him.
You are his son.
And it's like chosen right then and there.
And now it's time to go.
And that probably gave him the confidence to be like, let's go.
Let's go and kill Persia.
Like, you know, those political situations, whether they are divine or political inspired,
they affect stuff.
They really do.
Gilgamesh was two thirds divine.
It doesn't have a, it doesn't tell you a birth narrative.
I was talking to Seth El Sanders the other day on the phone about this.
And, and he was like, yeah, I wish we did find some texts,
but it does mention him being two thirds divine.
And this could be hinting, he says it could be,
hinting at this whole demigod, mortal women, sexual union between a god and a mortal,
which we see prevalent throughout the Greek world like crazy.
They loved having Zeus and Apollo, you know,
make these men.
In fact, if you wanted your guy to be somebody,
and you wanted to leave a legacy, you made sure his daddy,
I don't care if you wrote it a hundred years after the dude's dead.
You know, his dad was Zeus, right?
Like his dad slept.
And his real dad, his mortal dad, right?
That like took care of him his whole life.
He was off the war on that, that year, or he was here.
Oh, you just brought up a really good point is that a lot of times in the ancient world,
kings would claim descent from a certain god, or in some cases, a demigod or hero.
So there'd be people who say, I'm dissented from Achilles,
who was not really a god, but he was such a good hero, you could almost be a god.
Or you'd have like, Alexander's family was considered to be dissented from Hercules.
Caesar's family was considered to be sent from both Mars and Venus.
So it would give them like a boost in their political situation,
is like this guy is descended from the gods.
And then you have in the kings.
So there's the idea that Omri from the son of David is descended from the son of David.
Now, if let's say in one situation, David is historical,
you'd still, you're still giving yourself the credit of coming from David.
But if he wasn't, if say David was a mythological character,
you would still be like, I'm dissented from David.
This means I have that bloodline.
I am the rightful king here.
So there is this idea of becoming a rightful king from having the right
descendant, or being the descendant of some, you know what I mean?
I'm sharing something with you just to like show people.
And I'm doing a documentary right now with...
You're going to share it?
Yeah. Just for a second, it's from Richard C. Miller's book.
These are people sired by Jupiter.
You don't know who some of the mortal mothers are.
But like, we know these names, right? Achilles.
You can go on Hercules, Helen.
And then on the far right, you have the mortal person.
Yeah.
The mortal mother.
And the description is here in the middle.
Then you have Apollo, right?
This is a list of Apollo.
And the demigod is the human slash God,
meaning Apollo had sex with list the mother.
And there you have the child on the left.
And so what he's doing in this book, by the way,
just giving this endless Greek Roman sources to show you,
Jesus also, okay, for those who didn't know,
was born by a mortal woman and a God.
And as he overshadows her, the language is so wild.
And I'm doing my Samson video where we go into this.
Even Samson in the Bible, we always think about like,
you know, God's having sex with women from the Greek world.
But when you get to the Bible, no, no, no.
What's interesting about Genesis,
just take Genesis or the book of Judges, for example,
these women who are barren, like Sarah, Rachel,
and this is not my words.
These are academics I'm reading.
They have pointed out over and over the language in Hebrew there.
They're saying, it seems like it's implying more.
We assume it means, oh, he just miraculously opened her womb.
But the language even gives like, like Yahweh opened Rachel's womb.
Well, what's that mean?
I mean, if I opened your wife's womb, you might understand.
And words like open or meeting in a field.
Samson's mom, her name's never mentioned, by the way.
It's really funny.
This whole story is mainly about the woman,
but the husband is not around.
And I can't remember his name right now at the top of my head.
But this angel of the Lord, angel of Yahweh,
comes and meets Samson's mom in a field.
Well, we have another passage in Deuteronomy,
and I sourced it.
I think it's Deuteronomy.
It might be accepted, but I think it's Deuteronomy,
where it literally says if a woman has sex
or gets raped in a field, she's not at fault.
And this is not my words.
This is Yerzokovich with Seth El Sanders actually recommended
this whole thing and like thumbs up the whole thing.
So take it up with Seth El Sanders if you disagree with me here.
But it implies that Yahweh, this angel of the Lord,
had sex with Samson's mom.
And Josephus picked up on this language.
He said that the husband was jealous
because in the biblical text that we have,
he's like, hey, where's this angel of the Lord?
I want him to reveal to me everything he revealed to you.
So he comes with her when the angel of the Lord
appears again to her alone in a field and then goes,
please wait, I need to go get my husband,
goes and gets her husband, comes back,
and then he says to the angel of the Lord,
hey, reveal to me everything you revealed to her.
You know what the angel said to him?
I don't need to do that.
It's only for her to know.
Then he goes, well, what's your name?
And he says, that's not for you to know
and it doesn't matter.
Whoa, dude, like those are some fighting words.
Long story short, it's implied.
Samson is a demigod who was probably conceived
by the angel of Yahweh and his mortal mom.
Damn.
If you do, this is-
His name looks like lot, lot, lot, like Shemesh, the sun,
you know, it looks like there's some sort of solar,
I don't know, I'm just saying I'm pointing that out.
Yeah, that's another point in several of the scholars point
exactly what you said, Neil.
Dude, he kills a lion bare-handed.
The only other dude who did that, Heracles, Hercules.
But this gets off.
Sarah, Rachel, go check it out.
There's euphemisms, as Francesca Stabinacabulu talks
about all the time, and eating foods, things like that,
could mean sexual acts.
And like the scholars pointing out,
the author may be trying to tone down
the clear mythical stories of divine births and mortal women
that you see in other accounts.
They want to demythologize that,
which makes me think even later.
I mean, I don't see a count 6th, 7th century BCE
that are demythologizing.
There's a skeptic approach.
Judaism has a very skeptic approach to some of the more
some of the more superstitious ideas that are that predate it.
And one of the one of the big names that are was staying
in the court of Ptolemy in that time was Piero, the skeptic.
Was he was a high priest of Zeus, too.
And he he's credited as being the founder of this
philosophical school of skepticism.
And like, so it's like, is some of his ideas getting trickled
into this mixture of this great, you know, new religion,
maybe, I don't know, just pointing that out.
Because like, you're right, there is a skeptic side of Judaism.
For example, when Elijah is battling with the priest of Baal,
and they're all doing all these weird rituals
and cutting their hands and looking up,
and he's laughing at them like, where is Baal at?
I don't see nothing.
And so it's like, that that's like,
he's almost acting like a skeptic in a way,
saying like your rituals are nothing.
Like only there's only one God that can do anything.
And it's Yahweh and he's going to put down fire on you right now.
So just saying there's a there's a layer of that going on there.
There's also a layer of cynicism.
There's layers of stuff happening.
Cynic layer too.
I am going to, this is so good,
but we're not going to get through this whole list
because we're up to five and there's 15.
And we can try to hurry here.
Well, no.
Well, okay.
All right, fine.
Let's do that.
Canonical texts that dictate beliefs,
moral codes, and historical narratives.
Canonical?
Yeah.
Or like, let's just say that one more time.
Uh, texts that dictate beliefs,
moral codes, and historical narratives.
Well, straight away, I think of the code of Ramarabbi and,
and well, that's what this whole book is about.
The one I was, the one I keep bringing up is the Athenian,
the Athenian law codes,
Demosthenes and Plato's laws.
Also, Solon, like, like Courgeous,
some of this stuff, the 12 tables of the Romans.
There's, there's a lot of these law codes that are,
and these are all, if you,
one thing they all have in common is they all claim to sent from gods,
from either Apollo, in the case of Solon,
it was revealed, Solon travels to Delphi,
and goes to meet the priestess of Apollo,
and he gets these laws and brings them to Athens.
They're all, they all have that in common.
They're all divine laws from God.
Or else nobody would listen.
You gotta tell them that.
Nobody had the monopoly on law codes,
moral codes, any of that.
They all owe and earlier,
it's all evolved.
Every single civilization is borrowing from an earlier one.
This stretches into prehistory,
even though the earliest accounts we have,
from like Sumerian law codes,
try to paint it as before the divine kings,
before the kings literally were, you know, born,
brought to earth, it was chaos.
So there's always this image of chaos.
Everywhere.
And there's no order and no law and no,
but that's not actually the case.
They're saying, oh, well, we're civilized.
We have law structures unlike the previous civilization.
Look at what Islam says.
Like, look, it's all paganism.
They're insane, crazy out here in the desert,
but we came and Gabriel gave our guy.
And it's like, that is not true.
Scholarship is showing more and more
how much Christianity and Judaism
was spread all throughout Arabia,
where the origins of Islam with Muhammad are.
So they're telling you a story to make you say,
like before we came,
they were all stuck in the dark ages, baby.
I mean, yeah, you go to Egypt,
you got the 50 laws of Mott, you know, the laws.
So there's, there's, the divine law codes everywhere.
That's kind of what we're doing now.
We're like, let's look at these old,
like the way we've got the knowledge.
Like, you know what I mean?
Like, it's like, it's just like the humanity.
This is what we do.
Why aren't you saying new age,
whatever one calls new age is like,
they're mixing all these religions together.
This is all new age.
This is what everyone's been doing.
New age is not a new age.
The synchronism has always been,
it's like the Roman imperial cult would go in and the new,
they would conquer Turkey,
they would conquer the Galatians,
they would conquer Syria,
and they would adopt their, their, their, uh, culture
and bring it into the fold and sort of like,
synchronize stuff.
Even when they didn't like a culture,
they would need to engage it by to subvert it.
And this is what Christianity does with Rome, with Rome.
Yeah.
They subvert it by using it.
Look, Paul talks about adoption.
Show me in the Hebrew scriptures,
give me all these texts about God adopting people.
We have examples in the Roman empire.
And I say that because Cattel Berthelot wrote
a world famous book,
Jews and the Roman rivals,
and shows that Jews in their law codes
and in their interpretation of their own scriptures
was changed because of the laws of Rome.
Right.
So the Romans and their idea of Octavian
being adopted by Julius Caesar
and famous examples of adoption taking place
impacted Jews and how they understood the idea of adoption.
Here we have Paul writing in his letters,
becoming adopted sons of Abraham.
Yeah.
What?
Where did this come from?
Yeah.
Not because they liked the Romans,
they saw how successful it was,
and they were competing with them in many cases.
This is what the Ptolemy's did with the Egyptians.
Or same time as the Septuagint's being done,
there's another element taking place
in a different section,
which is with Egyptians.
And Osiris and Isis being the most popular two gods,
they're being synchronized.
Isis is being synchronized with Demeter and Persephone.
And then you see Osiris being merged.
And then Tacitus is book five.
He, or I think it's book four, book five,
where he tells you how Serapis came to be.
And they took the statue of Pluto.
They took the characteristics of Zeus.
They took Osiris and the story of Dionysus,
and they rolled all these things into one,
and then you get Serapis.
It's like this big synchronization happening
in the Serapium.
They build the Serapium because,
and like Serapis is a prime example
of like big time synchronization, Isis too.
And the Apolaus' metamorphosis is second century text,
where this dude gets baptized into this cult that he met.
And they're worshiping Isis of many names.
And they're like, they call her Aphrodite.
They call her Kaibili.
They call her Persephone.
They call her this.
They call her that.
Artemis, the Virgin, the Sophia.
She has all these titles, and it's all Isis.
You're like, huh, so they're synchronizing stuff.
That's just like what the world is at that time.
Damn.
So it's like new age.
What is new age?
It's the same shit everyone's been doing.
Yeah, it's just age.
Yeah.
So belief in life after death,
or a realm beyond the mortal realm.
I mean, this is, I can answer this.
Yes.
I mean, like the, you know, Hades.
Right after death.
Hades is like the print.
Well, not just Hades, because the Sumerians
have their underworld.
Urkala, I think it's called.
Irkala, I think.
I don't know.
Could be way off on that.
I'm thinking the entire world.
It sounds like, it sounds, when you compare it to Hades,
it's kind of similar.
It's underworld.
Everyone goes.
Doesn't matter who you are.
And you dwell there.
Well, the bottom has that brilliant book
where he kind of talks about how like this,
the idea of an afterlife and the Bible kind of progresses.
And Matthew Munger, when he came out, Dr. Matthew Munger,
talking about how, when he was a seminary student
or a student of the Bible, he had to do an assignment
where he had to try and argue an immortal soul
in the Old Testament.
And he couldn't do it.
And he blew his mind.
He was like, well, the old shield.
The shield.
The grave.
Yeah.
I hate his shield.
I did, I've got some courses coming out
with Egyptologist Karakuni.
We're working on those.
She talks about in, we do one in creation mythology
from Egypt.
The other one is resurrection mythology in Egypt.
And they call it what it is, mythology.
It's weird.
You get to the New Testament or Jesus or Old Testament.
Don't call it mythology, people.
And they got Amantet.
Amantet is the afterworld, afterlife.
Well, the point is she expresses is that, sure,
upper elites, kings participated by becoming Osiris at death.
Even women became Osiris at death.
And notice that idea that women even become men
in the afterlife.
But eventually over millennia, I guess,
you'd say in ancient Egypt, I'm talking 23,000 BCE,
eventually the common folks could participate in the cultists
and literally share in the afterlife whatever that
existence may be, whether physical, not physical, ethereal, whatever.
There is an afterlife experience.
And this goes so far back.
So the idea that afterlife, this idea is, if someone has this idea
that it only is like a Christian concept, is absurd.
It's a Greek and Roman.
Even physical resurrection is not exclusively Jewish.
That is a Greek and Roman idea.
Yes, Platonists wanted to divorce themselves from the physical substance,
but that's not all Greeks.
And that does not express all Roman Greek ideas.
So if you want to go to an actual location in a text to see the example of this,
Plato's Republic, I keep bringing this up.
In book three, this is everyone.
Amantet, Amantet, Amantet.
Plato's Republic, book three.
He starts off by talking about how Homer and Hesiod are no good.
They need to be replaced with something better.
I don't like their mythology.
I don't like the idea of Hades.
Everyone just goes there and complains and hates their life.
He gives Achilles as an example.
In the book of Odyssey, he says they depict Achilles and Hades.
He's crying because he misses the world.
He wants to tell you to cherish your life,
which is actually a good message to tell people.
Like cherish your life because this is it.
The Greeks were smart in that regard.
Plato for some reason was like,
no, we need a better system where good go to a good place
and bad go to a bad place.
He lays this out.
All in one book in Republic, book three,
where he says righteous should go to a good place
and wicked should go to a bad place.
So you already have an idea of something like Heaven and Hell
being talked about in Plato and in Republic,
which was a revolutionary idea because before that,
it was everyone just goes to Hades.
And like, yeah, you have Elysium,
but that's like only the heroes go there.
You know, most like 99% of them.
Neil, admit it, though.
He probably is influenced from various sources
to draw all these conclusions.
You talked about Zoroastrianism.
Yeah.
I mean, Plato's probably, because they had-
He cited Zoroaster in that text.
In the Zoroastrian belief, I think there's a,
there's like a blade walk over the pool of fire or something
and like people who are righteous who fall off into the water
to feel like warm milk.
If you're righteous, if you're not righteous,
it'll burn away the wickedness.
There's these ideas already pre-Christian-y ideas of Heaven
and Hell already there, and even Plato's probably picking
and choosing, and that's what the Greeks were known for doing.
They say, we borrow from these people,
they take Zoroaster knowledge,
and then they unify it as one philosophy.
Right, and like you said, Zoroastrianism especially is
influenced, like it's got that concept of angels and demons in there.
In resurrection of the devil.
Yeah, you have one main God on top, one main devil character,
and then you have angels and demons below that,
and then mortals.
It's very close to what Christian cosmology ends up being.
Right.
Number eight, ritualistic practices commemorating spiritual
milestones or divine covenants.
Ritualistic.
Milestones or spiritual practices commemorating spiritual milestones
or divine covenants.
So in the Hebrew Bible, it might be the circumcision.
Like at a certain age, someone has baptism.
Right, okay.
So you have the Phoenicians,
they have their own version of what happened
and why circumcision is necessary,
because they Phoenician circumcised.
And it's not because of Abraham.
They don't say Abraham told us to do this.
They say that God El circumcised himself
after he won some battle against someone.
And that says from now on, every child after he was born
has to be circumcised.
That's the Phoenician version of that.
But you also have, according to Herodotus and Diodorus of Sicily,
the people in the Caucasus, which is modern day like Southern Russia,
that they were practicing circumcision
and the Egyptians are practicing circumcision.
So it's like, that idea is not just like,
people didn't realize it.
That's not an Israelite thing.
The Israelites are doing it too,
but they're not the only ones doing this.
Probably came from Egypt.
I was actually thinking of where Herodotus mentions a Babylonian custom.
And I wanted to do something different because I was thinking,
okay, what could potentially,
and I'm sure there are several examples of these kind of ritualistic customs,
probably at milestones of people's age.
Most of the time, they probably come down to the development of the human in their life.
Are you 13? Bar Mitzvah, these kind of things.
I'm thinking of the Babylonian practice Herodotus mentions,
where he describes it as this horrible practice,
that he's like, why are they still doing this?
And this is happening.
The ritual king slaying, where they would human sacrifice somebody.
It was a sacrificial rite where they would take somebody,
dress them in purple robes and put a crown on them,
and then slay them in front of everybody.
And it was a sacrifice.
I was, I'm thinking about the Babylonian prostitute practice.
The temple of Ishtar.
The women, the young girls, better yet, that are hitting puberty,
once in their lifetime.
And I'm giving you a nutshell of what Herodotus described,
and he called it this debauchery.
I mean, he's like, this, this is just this horrific practice,
where these poor girls going into puberty have to sit outside,
along the aisle, wearing their temple veil.
And the reason I found out about this is because I was doing my,
the Judah and Tamar video, and actually using Kip Davis' work,
paralleling it as the David's succession narrative.
That Genesis 38 with Judah, you remember the story everyone knows,
where his son spills a seed and God kills him for it?
We all know that one, because we were all boys at one point.
You know what I'm saying?
And we were all like, dude, is God going to kill me for that?
Bro.
So what ends up happening is I found that interesting thing,
and the girls would meet a stranger that they've never met,
and that man could choose whichever girl and throw silver,
a few pieces of silver on her lap, and then he would have sex with her.
Random girl, random guy, and then they would take the silver home and say,
hey, all right, I've come, I've practiced the custom that they had,
which was not just like, it was religious.
They are prostitutes of a temple of a goddess.
So they had this strange, backdated, kind of like,
we see remnants of human sacrifice in the Bible.
It is there, clearly.
Francesca wrote her first book, her PhD dissertation on that,
Staprakapulu.
And it's clearly there.
Kip Davis has come on and talked about this.
They used to sacrifice firstborn children as a custom to the God, or gods.
And that's something that came to mind.
I don't know.
They have this, go ahead.
I was just going to say, I think it's the Tikapans,
or a group, a nation of Aboriginal Australians,
actually do circumcision as well.
But it was a type of, it's a different type of,
they essentially cut their penis in a certain way.
It's not a fun thing to Google a registry.
But yeah, there's like, it's not interesting where it's like,
they definitely had no contact with that part of like,
in the many of the 60,000 years.
And you know, it's still somehow,
humanity's got this instinct to just cut their penis for some reason.
I mean, you know, I'll just switch it up
from the male spectrum to the female.
I'll be right back.
This is a really cool one.
So there is a, there's a story from a guy named Poseidonus,
Poseidonus, I don't know how you pronounce it,
where he says that there's a island in the Atlantic near Britain,
like way over in the Atlantic.
And there's these matriarchal society.
All women live there.
And you're like, how do they survive?
How do they maintain without having males to like keep the population up?
Well, this is what they do.
Every year, during a certain time of the year,
the female virgins at a certain age,
I don't know if they said it was like 12 or 13 or something,
they would be sent down to the mainland to go get pregnant by men.
And they would come back up to the island.
And this is where it gets crazy.
These women, when they would give birth to these children,
the male children would be ritually eaten in honor of Dionysus,
who is also killed as a, you know, the story where Dionysus is killed as a baby,
and they take his flesh and the Titans rip him apart.
So they would mock this ritual.
They would kill the males, and they would raise the females to become
bockens in their tribe.
Whoa, where is this?
This is in Poseidonus.
It's also in Strabo.
Oh, man.
I love what Neil just said.
There's a lot of stuff like that out there.
We're digging up old fossils.
And this is what we love doing, too, in these myths.
And noticing that later on, you still see the echoes, the whispers,
of an archaic practice.
I mean, bro, look, eat my flesh, drink my blood, Jesus said.
What?
Dionysus, that literally the ritual of removing his flesh.
Where's the book at, man?
You were here, Neil.
You probably know where my books are better than I do.
Yeah.
I've got one of the fourth gospels, the Dionysian gospel.
Dennis R. McDonald's book goes over this, turning water into wine.
In fact, I feel like I got to share this, but I probably should waste your time.
Hang on a sec.
Hang on.
Let me just pump the brakes here.
Neil, are you OK to go over a little bit?
Derek said in private, something's OK to go over.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, cool.
I'm only trying.
I'll charge you, like, I don't know, 3,000 every five minutes.
How's that sound?
Well, there's also, I do want to bring up that everyone who's superchats
Neil will remove one article of clothing.
So it says it's from MythVision, but it says on the thing by Neil.
So just so everyone is aware.
Dude, just to tease people, like I sharing this book here to show you.
You see this miracles in Greco-Roman antiquity, Wendy Cotter.
Every miracle in the New Testament has antecedents in the Greek and Roman world.
OK.
You might say, but I found that miracle also in the Elijah Elisha narratives.
You're right.
And those are also in the Greco-Roman world.
Right.
So do yourself a favor.
Read this book before you complain to me about any problems.
OK.
But my point is turning water into wine.
Dionysian.
Why can't they just let go of Dionysus?
This guy goes back, like, 2,000 BCE.
I mean, he goes before.
Yeah.
Yes.
His name is in linear B inscriptions in archaeology.
He's old.
He's an old ancient god.
And there's an Ellisonian mysteries, which also claims to be from the Mycenaean period,
according to, like, every source that talks about it.
It's an ancient religious site, a little bit west of Athens.
And they have a Eucharist ritual where the wine represents Dionysus,
and the bread represents Demeter grain.
And then the person who takes part in the ritual becomes like Persephone,
because she's the virgin.
Right.
So you are becoming like a virgin taking the ritual on.
And then you would have this.
You would drink the caikion, go through this ecstatic ritual.
All night you would party, and according to the text,
there was, like, orgies going on.
And then the next, and then when dawn would come,
you would take a ritual bath called a baptism.
That's the word in Greek.
It's the only word for it, baptism.
There was actually a cult called Baptist.
And they were in Corinth.
And 400, like, this is talking about ancient Greece.
They're called themselves Baptists.
They were devotees of Dionysus and the goddess Kodas.
And anyways, back to Ellisonians, they had a ritual baptism.
And you would cleanse yourself as a new, living, initiated being.
And then there would be like a dawn singing of hymns and stuff.
Like, you were now initiated.
We have to blame David for this.
But David, you brought it up.
And the reason I just keep thinking this is wonderful,
what me and Nill and you are doing here is I'm thinking about
the crazy possible traditions that are religiously related
to the idea of incest in antiquity.
You see it in the Greek world.
You see it in the Bible.
It's like, you know, cousin, first cousins, aunts.
You're marrying your aunts, things like that.
But look at the Egyptians.
The book by Good Kings, Karakuni's book here.
The Good Kings.
You can get it on Audible in case you need to listen to it.
But this book right here goes into the Kings of Egypt.
And she has a way with words.
She has some words to say about these kings.
Good Kings.
You really should check it out.
But she points out like, they had this practice of keeping
the bloodline and having children with your own family.
And the Kings started to like malfunction genetically,
if you know what I'm saying, through incest.
And they couldn't even have kids anymore and stuff.
So they're like deformed.
Some of these later pharaohs are like deformed.
Why are they doing this?
Well, you might look at some examples in Europe
where they did this and they had a superstitious kind of
concept about bloodlines.
Anyway, sex is crazy.
Ugaritic, Sumerian, Greek, and Egyptian.
Sexual rites and rituals and phallic.
We should do a whole episode on just like sex.
Yeah.
That's another thing in the Ellos Indian initiation.
They would, after you had that, after you drank,
after you did that Eucharist basically,
they would bring out a phallus in a chest.
And they would, the priest would bring this chest up.
And the initiate had to open the chest out.
Hold the phallus.
It's a giant golden dildo basically.
And it represented Dionysus' phallus.
Or in the case, and this is related to the Egyptian
Osiris too, there's an overlap happening there.
Herodotus mentions this.
It's part of the ritual.
And you would say magic words.
You'd say certain words.
I forgot.
It's like something to do with I have taken from the chest.
I have put back from the chest.
Then you put the phallus back in.
And that was the end.
That was part of that ritual.
There's some cool stuff going on there.
Just like I'm just imagining.
Oh, I wanted to say something real quick.
On the triumph of science, I love this because
there's this religious attitude of being pure in the bloodline.
And then as a result of that, you see like bad things happening.
But in the exact opposite sense, people who are mixing
with other cultures, you have better genetics.
It's proven scientifically.
The more you mix up your, the more diverse, like a European
mixing with an Indian, the more diverse, the better,
the more healthy you are.
Because the best genes always win out.
So it's like, it's one of those things of like,
the science god wins.
I just love like the fact, like thinking back like,
like evolutionary, like we're just like, you know,
evolved apes essentially.
And it's like, I was just imagining, like,
if you could like communicate with a lion and explain these,
like, well, you know, there was a fellas thing in the chest
and lifted like, I just imagine like, what the fuck are we doing?
As a species.
Yeah, we're just, what are we doing?
Like, this is so wild.
We're just, it's true.
And some people literally think a woman ate a fruit
and all shit went to hell.
I mean, this, how, got pretty down.
I know, I know.
A community congregating regularly for worship
and spiritual edification.
I'm going to hand that one over here to my brother here
who's been interviewing.
I just mentioned the Ellosinians.
They would have these twice a year,
winter time and spring time, and they would have initiations.
I think the, the spring was for the greater mysteries
and the winter was for the lesser mysteries,
but it could be, it could be the opposite.
But anyway, it's right in west of Athens.
So Elyseus is in, is in Greece, right near Athens,
like literally a half an hour drive away, like right there.
Actually, they had a procession where they would walk from
Elyseus to Athens and that was part of their procession.
But yeah, there was that.
There's, they give examples of people who got initiated
and how important these rites were.
So they mentioned Caesar got initiated,
Alexander got initiated, Plato got initiated,
Socrates got initiated, Cleopatra.
I thought Julia Domna, Pythagoras,
all the greatest ancient minds that were ever,
there was, there's a story from a, actually a Jewish writer
named Nicholas of Damascus.
He says that he tells this story about people traveling
all the way from India, just to get initiated
into the Elyseanian mysteries.
That's how famous they were.
He tells this wild story of a guy named Demaris,
who was an Indian Brahmin, he says.
And he gets initiated and he said,
his life is fulfilled.
So he jumped into a fire and killed himself.
Because he no longer feared death.
He was initiated.
It reminds me of Peregrinus.
I was telling you about with Lucian before we,
you know, before this show earlier,
we were talking about your upcoming script.
Peregrinus was a Christian, Lucian's making a mockery
of Christians as well as the situation with Peregrinus
who went and publicly announced, I've, I've hit it.
I am at my peak of philosophically, I hit my eschesis.
It is time for me to end it and go off
and leave this mortal decaying lower.
He was a stoic, but he was, you know, time to go.
And I'm going to show everybody how serious I am
about my beliefs and supposedly went into this public square,
jumped off into a fire and boom.
Then there was a story that Lucian tells
and he says that he made up a story and he said,
look, as soon as he jumped on the fire,
fires consumed him.
A Falcon or a Phoenix, I think, I think he said,
a Phoenix rose up from the fire and went up to Mount Olympus.
So he ascended to heaven.
Now he made this up the next day.
He said that some old man came up to him and said,
I saw a Phoenix ascend out of the fire
and go up into the Mount Olympus.
And he's like, I made that shit up.
So how could this guy have seen something that I made up?
And so he's making a mockery about how people make up stuff 24
hours after he made it up, someone's telling him
how they saw something that he made up.
I used to do this with a guy that I grew up with
where he knew everything.
I mean, he's one of those guys we're like, did you hear about?
Yeah, of course I heard about it.
How could you think of it?
So I made up this story that a serial killer
had like murdered this kid and like chopped him up
and they found his bags in like 20 different places.
And I made it up and like, did you hear about it?
Yeah.
And I was like, I made it up, bro.
And he was, no, but there really was a serial killer around here.
And I'm like, dude, you're so full of it, bro.
I can't ever have you just be honest.
My dad told me a story about someone.
He did that to some girl who's like, I love that band.
I love this band when he is like, oh, yeah.
Do you like, what's your favorite album from this band?
He said this album and he made up some album.
And she was and she's like, yeah, it's my favorite.
It's like, what's your favorite song?
And then he like, he listed the songs.
She's like this one.
And then he's like, well, that doesn't exist.
And she's like, yeah, it does.
And she takes him to the music store
and she's like going through.
She's like arguing with a manager.
No, the reason I didn't call it.
Going way too far with that one.
Can I share this real quick?
I got one more I want to share.
This is cool.
So I got something shared in the bottom
if you want to pop it up for me.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, sorry.
I didn't see that.
Yep.
Okay.
So these, I'm going to zoom in a little bit.
These are, this is a goddess called Kodas.
But the people, so she was worshiped in Corinth,
one of the major cities of early Christianity, right?
Paul writes a letter to the Corinthians.
This is going back to 454-25 BCE.
And they were called Baptite,
which in English translates to Baptists.
It's the same word.
It means bathers.
And that's what their purifications were originally
connected to, blah, blah, blah.
But there's a source for this,
author named Eupolis.
And he kind of makes fun of them,
calls them Baptists.
And he says that they engage in all types of
in perversion and cross-dressing.
They always say that.
Let me just, I hate another group.
It's almost fun.
Yeah, they always make fun of them, right?
Yeah.
Let me just say this, that Corinth
sounds like a fun place to bathe,
like people asleep in windows.
Step moms, they're like, you know,
cross-dressing like, fuck you.
Wild stuff happening.
But anyways, yeah, they were called Baptists.
And they were like, it was basically
like a Dionysian cult where they engage in
a static religious spiritual, you know,
stuff, you know, that type of stuff.
But one of the people that he mentions
in the book, you Paul, is Elcubaites.
Was a student of soccer,
one of the students of Socrates,
who was an Athenian general.
And he says he's one of these Baptists.
And he makes fun of them in that book.
But so if he was initiated in there,
it must have been pretty big, you know.
And David, just the point, like you can go back
and you'll notice that usually it's kings or elites
that get to practice that.
It's later that you find they start opening it up
to more people.
But it seems that this was more of a practice
that people who were important, powerful,
probably had money or in some type of political power
that had these opportunities to participate
in these rituals.
And they become patrons of this.
The patrons of it, too, yeah.
So this is one where I know that as a Christian,
I would have said that this was exclusive to Christianity.
So core teachings emphasizing virtues
like love, mercy, and charity.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Really?
Core teachings.
I'll give you a prime example.
The Dionysian cults were known as the egalitarians.
They would honor things like poverty
and virtue and being equal, having women in charge.
And this is stuff that Christianity sort of takes on
and does it in its own way.
But the Dionysian cults were doing this for centuries
before this even came up.
That's what I would say to that.
And look, so there's race, right?
Buddhism.
But that's all Christian.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, I think that's kind of the cynics.
The cynics, this is not a religion,
but it's a philosophical group in Athens.
Again, they were staunch opponents of the rich,
of greedy rich tyrants.
And they would live like,
Diogenes was one of their leaders.
He lived in a, in a bowl or a, what do you call it?
He lived in like a little.
A barrel.
A barrel.
Yeah, he lived in the middle of Athens in a barrel
with dogs surrounding him.
He fed the dogs every day.
He would go get his water from the river
and drink it with his hand.
And these people, they would honor that type of lifestyle.
Diogenes, right?
Average lifestyle.
Yeah, Diogenes.
Yeah, I told my cousin about that.
I was on the phone to him and I'm just telling him,
like, yeah, he lived in a barrel.
He would masturbate in public.
He was, you know, and he would say stuff like,
if only I could rub my belly to get rid of hunger.
Like he was, you know, and he would like,
just, I told this big story and I'm telling him
for like five minutes, he's just listening in silence.
And then at the end, we live in this place
where there's like a Nambor.
He's like the derelict place where I live.
And he lives there and he goes,
do you ever think that Diogenes lives in a park in Nambor?
Because I swear I've seen that dude.
And I was just like, I just lost my mind.
The name cynic, it comes from the Greek kunikos.
It means dog-like.
Literally, it's becoming, having like a dog-like existence
is the way to happiness.
Do you know what they believe?
There's a story.
I don't know if it was Plato.
Who was the guy?
There was Plato or Socrates or Aristotle.
One of them was like around the same time as Diogenes.
And he went into, let's say it's Plato.
I don't know who it is.
Plato and Diogenes were like opponents in Athens.
Oh, okay.
So Plato invites them around.
They're both for students of Socrates.
Yeah, okay.
They're Plato invites them around
with a bunch of other philosophers.
And he comes in with muddy feet
and he starts stamping on Plato's carpet and says,
I stamp on the pride of Plato.
And then Plato says, yes, Diogenes,
with the pride of your own.
There's a lot of stories.
I have the whole, there's a source text
about everything that happened in Diogenes's life.
And it's a lot, a lot of it isn't him clashing with Plato.
Let me give you a better example.
So Plato was doing a teaching on like the human body anatomy.
And he had to be showing like,
basically we are just like bipedal chickens.
And he's like explaining how the human body,
just like a chicken body.
So Diogenes like storms in there
with a chicken in his hand.
He's like, look everyone, I got Plato's man.
And they're all laughing at Plato.
And I guess Plato is like so embarrassed by this.
But there's a lot of cases of Plato and Diogenes clashing.
Like their philosophy is clashing.
I'd like to make one comment about this
that I find powerful.
Greeks had a God named love.
Okay.
This is a very important point
when Christians make this argument.
And this is something that Richard C. Miller,
in his book, Where Did It Go?
Resurrection and Reception and Early Christianity
that I'm doing my next documentary on,
he goes and shows that Christianity,
like I said earlier, subversively takes down
the existing philosophies.
It's competing, right?
At first it's just competing and it's a nobody.
But why did it gain traction among non-Jews?
This is a big question that Dr. Miller points out in the book.
Because Paul became all things to all people.
In his letters, he'd become like a Greek to the Greeks.
And he literally uses the word Hellenay or the Hellenist.
And then he also will use the word for Greek.
Literally they would call themselves Greeks.
In fact, Romans, even by birth,
oftentimes would call themselves Greeks culturally
because it was something to look up to.
It was something to call yourself in culture.
But long for short.
It'll be still Hellenay, lover of Greek.
You wouldn't say all these attributes of the spirit
that Christianity wants to say are good moral things
to a people who don't already understand what those things are.
He doesn't have to explain what they are.
He doesn't have to break down what these things are.
They understood what these moral things were
and how he was packaging them
for the philosophy of Christianity under the Christ movement.
So like the point that Richard C. Miller might say
in response about this question is, what do you mean?
There was already these moral codes,
moral things already for centuries.
The Christian philosophy wants to make them in their own vein
and say, truly, anyone who's doing these things,
they must have the spirit of Christ.
And that's why people like Justin Martyr
who are arguing against the Platonist
and also trying to say,
we believe nothing different than you do
about your sons of Zeus, et cetera, et cetera.
And he goes into the diaspora and the list of seizures,
the whole nine.
He then says stuff like some of these philosophers
before Jesus were Christian.
Why would he call them Christian?
Because they knew they had a philosophy
and a lifestyle that they lived
that only a Christian would live and have.
Well, that's kind of an odd way to make someone a Christian
before Jesus even existed.
It's what they did.
They saw their philosophy.
They saw their lifestyle.
They saw their behavior and the morals.
And that's why he demonized the sons of Zeus
and things like that because he said, those were demons.
Christianity is true, not necessarily
in some literal historical, this actually happened sense.
But this is the true philosophy over against your false ones
because your God Zeus raped women.
So he would degrade these other stories
by saying, hey, just like Plato,
just like these guys would say, Zeus raped people?
We can't believe that shit.
I mean, so they're just carrying on a tradition
that's already been around.
And you could point to all these ancient myths
where Eros would come along and take his arrow
and hit somebody and that they would fall in love
with somebody who was in trouble,
Jason, for example, is in trouble in the Argonautica
or Odysseus is in trouble in Homer.
And sometimes Eros would get, would string,
hit one of these gods like Athena or Medea.
And then that character would come in and save the hero.
So it's like love comes and saves the day.
And then you also have with Orpheus and Euridus.
Euridus dies and goes to the Hades.
But it's that love for Euridus that brings her back up.
And the idea behind it is when you're dead, you're gone.
But the people who love you are the ones that carry on your life
and keep you eternally alive while you're gone.
That's a powerful concept.
You made me think of a strange ending of Heracles
where his wife is being or attempted rape
by the centaur across the river.
And then as he's dying, he says,
take some of my semen and blood and put it in this vial.
And later on, when Heracles falls in love
and is attracted with another woman,
put this on his coat or put this on his skin somehow.
And she thinks it's really going to convince him
not to be in love with her anymore.
And he's just going to be focused on his wife.
It was a trick, a ploy by the centaur
who was pissed during his journeys on the labors.
But it's like a reversal of the arrow
in a way that ends up getting him killed.
But anyway.
Interesting.
Well, it's funny that we're talking about rape
because with the gods.
Because I've heard a lot of edgy atheists say
that the Holy Spirit raped, or God raped Mary
because she didn't consent to having,
she just told, you're going to have a child in you.
It's going to be the son of man or whatever.
And it's like, you know, it's like this story of like,
of God's sleeping with humans is so common.
Yeah, a lot of times the actual language
would be like Zeus ravished, such and such.
And like, it doesn't even try to hide it.
It's like Zeus just did it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Did you see that?
Look, Francesca in her book brings it up.
El, the very name of God from the Bible.
El has sex with two goddesses on the beach
and I think takes advantage of them.
Look, even if you didn't want to say it was rape,
here are these two goddesses on this beach
walking up on the shoreline.
Okay.
He whips his dick out that goes to the heavens.
This is exactly how he starts to masturbate in front of them.
And the way that Francesca explained it,
she's like, I don't know if they were like, oh, wow,
look at his penis.
Yeah, you can give us baby.
Or if he just takes advantage of them, but he does
and they get pregnant.
El also opens the womb of Rachel, opens the womb.
And the way that the perception of the author,
who's probably a guy, is going,
and she was glad to have that child, you know,
but for me, David, this is how I look at it.
For Mary, for Rachel, for Samson, for wife.
Persephone, it's literally called the rape of Persephone
from Pluto.
And there's no, like, the language is clear, you know.
I'm just saying, like, I don't know if it's rape
from the biblical perspective.
Oh, sure, sure.
It's its story to me either way.
It's just, it's inventive storytelling.
And I just, I don't know about the rape part of that,
pertaining to the Bible, but I can say the closest to rape
in the biblical text that I'm aware of
are off the top of my head.
From God impregnating, or a God, a divine figure,
angel of the Lord impregnating a female,
is in the Samson narrative in Judges 13.
In Judges 13, just did this, the angel of the Lord
meets the mother of Samson in a field.
And I'm not the one who made this up.
It was Jair Zokovic by Seth El Sanders, who referred it,
who said, look at the Deuteronomy passage,
where it talks about if a woman is in a field,
and a man approaches her, and she's not guilty.
So it's the only little scapegoat situation of a sexual act.
What about David and Beth Sheba?
That doesn't seem like, or does she,
does she fall in love with them back?
I don't know if she does.
Davis is of the opinion that if this is historical,
or has a historical, she would have had no say in the matter
either way.
Right.
That's what I'm saying.
She's already married to a Hittite.
But when you do the parallels, like Judah and Tamar,
like I did to David and Beth Sheba,
and you see David's daughter also is named Tamar,
there's an interesting parallel that in both scenarios,
they fall for foreign women, and the foreign women are seductive.
So you got to ask yourself, like, look at how
Tamar in Genesis 38 dresses up like a temple prostitute
and tricks Judah into having sex with her,
then she gets pregnant, then he's like,
and they're like, your daughter was pregnant, burn her alive.
And then she's like, hey, burn me alive.
Whoever's sign it and staff this is, you may want to give it back.
Oh, shit.
And then he's like, you're more righteous than I am.
Yeah, asshole.
You want to burn me alive, but you're the one who got me pregnant.
And like, it's a wild story.
It's such a myth.
It's a story.
It's right.
It's great storytelling, but it's a story.
And just one last thing on that.
It's like, the way these stories are written,
you can, when you read a history, I don't know,
Polybius, Xenophon, whatever, it's written in a way where
in five and the fifth year of the reign of this king,
here's what happened.
It's very, very rigid.
It's not these stories of Tamar and Judah and Abraham,
they're flowing like, like, like they're, they're myths.
They're not, it's not a history.
You're not reading a history book.
You're reading a story.
Yeah.
I remember raising an eyebrow when I was like five and reading
like my children's version.
Who was documenting all this stuff?
Ten.
Who was there to write this down?
What, it's not, that's not how it works.
And it was like, and Noah was 350 years old and I was like.
And then Noah thought to himself.
It's like, who knows in dust?
Yeah.
It's like, and like, and then Abraham thought to himself.
Who knows, who knows this?
Like, yeah, yeah, exactly.
Stuff like that.
So we're up to 11 of 16 and we've got some super chats as well.
So I'm just, let's try and like, I'm happy to do this all day,
but like, I know you guys, it's probably late.
Acknowledgement of divine interventions of miracles in the world.
Acknowledgement?
Oh, I'll give you one on top of the bat.
The Spajian, the Spajian is a big one because it says in the text,
Fantasitas, we have multiple sources and I wouldn't lie about this.
It was, it was documented by many people that he went to the temple of Serapis and a lame person
walked up to him and he healed him and he touched him.
And then another person walked up to him and he spit on his hand and put it in his eyes
and he could see again.
And it's like, whoa, this is not a mythology.
This is a historical text and he's claiming that it actually happened.
He literally heals a blind man by spitting in his hand and putting it in his eyes.
And then also heals a withered man's hand.
The Spajian does this in the temple of Serapis.
Well, the text is written in the early second century around 120,
but the text is taking, the story is taking place in the 70s or 60s.
I thought it was the 70s, but the Spajian is-
It's before, it's before he comes back.
So it must have been 69 actually.
69 AD or 69 AD.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, right.
Actually, that was, it had to have been that year because you didn't-
I can't believe you didn't hear that one before.
Yeah, that's a big one.
Then you have like C that the suck with C.
There's several accounts.
It's not just Tacitus that mentions this.
Yeah, yeah.
So, I think it mentions it.
Oh, yes, it mentions it.
I think Lenny brings it up like-
Cliny does bring it up, yeah.
He'll form Jesus like-
Cliny has a whole section on miracles and that's one of them.
He also talks about like Caesar's rising, the divine-
Caesar rising from his grave when he died.
There's a bunch of sources on that too.
And obviously, this is crazy.
I didn't think we're going to get all of these,
but like every single one of them, it's been very easy for you to just point out.
Yeah.
Pre-Christian idea, like these are pre-Christian, pre-
you know, ideas that have been-
Well, that one is contemporaneous, I would say, with the God material.
Yeah, it's contemporary with it, yeah.
Yeah.
So, if you're looking for something that pre-Christian, asclepius, baby,
I mean, we're talking centuries before Jesus, he was healing the blind.
And it says he was a man too.
It doesn't say he was, it says he was immortal.
He was made into a God later in the story.
But he was a man who had, you know, I think he was demigod.
Yeah, he was demigod.
His father was Apollo.
Apollo, yeah.
He was born from Apollo and a mortal woman, right.
Zeus killed him.
Zeus killed him because he brought someone back from the dead according to what I read.
So, he brings this mortal back from the dead that he's not supposed to do
because he has healing powers.
Zeus said, hell no.
Zaps him.
Apollo comes up to Zeus in Mount Olympus and said,
hey, bro, I'm about to whoop your ass if you don't bring my kid back
because that ain't right.
And I'm making this up like the way I'm saying this.
But he goes to Zeus and says, hey, this isn't right, bro.
To keep it with historical and let's just to give you an example of a historical person,
that's not a God.
The story of Pythagoras says that his music
had the ability to make the animals and come around him.
And he can talk to animals like Dr. Doolittle.
That's Pythagoras.
And his music had healing effects.
Yeah.
Sorry.
Water into wine, miracle, Dionysus.
Just saying.
It was really milk into wine, by the way.
It was milk.
No, there's different versions.
There's another one where it's water.
Okay, I know.
Pausanias tells you a story about priests in Greece who would every once a year,
they would get a bunch of barrels ready, fill them with water,
and then they would close the temple and lock it.
And the next day they'd come in, this is the temple of Dionysus.
They would open up the temple and it would have wine in it.
So I am totally okay with this, by the way, for everyone.
I just want to, I feel bad because we said two hours, but if you guys can go longer,
I'm totally happy to go longer.
However, where are we at?
In Organa, we're after number 12 of 16.
Let's round it out to 230 then, 15 more minutes.
All right, all right.
Okay.
Well, in that case, we'll probably have to do some super chats.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Okay, let's jump into some super chats and then we'll run back to this,
but we'll have to call off super chats for now,
but so stop giving super chats.
But one of the super chats is actually from our Archbishop of Deep Drinks,
which is if you go to Patreon, you can become a Patreon supporter and join the clergy.
But Jason Rollins, do you guys think there's a valid way to utilize arguments from silence?
A valid, I mean...
And let me just say this.
In October, we had the October community stream on Patreon and he came on and he
tried to explain to me Bayesian analysis for mythosystem.
It was actually the only time in my life I've had a conversation with someone who
who subscribes to mythosystem that I actually didn't walk away wanting to bash my head against
the wall.
It was actually a productive and enjoyable conversation.
I've had a bunch of people like that, like me and...
I don't know why they're not public, Ian, because some of them...
Me and Aaron Adair, oh, me and Aaron Adair had a good one.
Well, Aaron's great.
People think it got heated, but that's just how me and him are.
We get on the phone like that.
It's just how we are.
We were phone with Mike.
And then I had Michael, what's his name?
Derek, your friend, who's a mythosist.
Wrote 70?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
He came on my channel about two or three months ago.
We had a two-hour discussion about mythosystem, completely level-headed.
I had a good time.
I thought it was...
Yeah.
Hey, that's cool.
I like your theory.
I've come to realize this.
Just a few people gave it a really fucking bad name.
I don't know.
Just to answer the super chat, though, I don't know of a valid way.
I think it's a bit subjective.
Depends on what it is.
I tend to think that if there's really good reason something should be there,
and it's not...
And we have all the other...
It's almost an inductive or deductive argument.
I can't remember which one it would be.
But why, for example, you bring up Herodotus not mentioning Jews.
Is this because Jews weren't called Jews at the time?
Is this because Israel wasn't called Israel at the time?
Is this because they were technically under another nation?
They were part of that nation at that time?
Is Herodotus going to Persia?
And really, these Jews are Persians in his eyes?
I don't know.
But my point is the argument from silence should raise other questions and raise suspicions
and not just keep finding little other excuses to get out of it.
Why isn't the elephant team papyrius polytheistic and doesn't have all this biblical stuff?
Well, one could say, seems like an argument from silence.
It's lacking all this material of what we would say is biblical material.
Yet people will go, well, they went there because they were exiting the Babylonian captivity.
So that's not a good argument.
Well, if we had evidence contrary to that of at the time that we know of,
what ends up happening is people go, these prophets are much older.
Jeremiah, Isaiah, et cetera.
And so they use this internal arguments of historiography to try and date stuff.
And then they mentioned, well, this prophet that we think existed in the 6th, 7th century BCE
or 8th century BCE with Hosea, he knows about this other material.
So they try to use almost like a, it's almost a circular argument using an argument here.
It's almost circular because that's assuming that author wrote that at that time,
or that's not a pseudopigraphy or a forged letter in the name of that prophet that's
writing about events that they may have sources about, we don't know.
If I knew for a fact the letter I have of Hosea was 5th century, I'm done.
There ain't no Hellenistic for Hosea.
There's no reason to even make the case.
Because this material comes so much later, and we have evidence of Jews writing stories
like the book of Daniel claiming to be from the 6th century.
And we know that it's 2nd century BCE.
And then these other scholars who disagree with other scholars, like Gamirkin,
like Philip Vajambam and other people who say, you know, and Thomas L. Thompson,
the list can go on, Nils Peter Lempke, you name it.
They're looking at these authors, these supposed prophets, and they're saying,
actually, this might be pseudopigraphy.
They see stuff that looks later in it than when they supposedly wrote it.
Are they writing this stuff later, backdating it, assuming that these are all questions?
And it's all circular argument to me, unless we have that actual text from that period, it's absent.
Yeah, that's why I said I would love to see like one person from 500 BC saying,
oh, and this text by Jeremiah says this.
Right, right, right.
That's what I mean, and it's an argument from silence, but it's like,
it's not that I'm using that as an argument to say it didn't exist.
It's just me wanting to find something to make it more solid.
That's all.
Before we start, we'll get a $2 super chat from AR.
Thank you.
Couple bucks to help them make it rain.
Thank you so much.
Nitty, $10.
Thank you.
The super chats really do make a difference.
Thank you so much, guys.
I really appreciate it.
A holy cuckold.
Thank you, critical faculty.
Just saying hello to the lovely and smart people, David, Derek, and Neil, and a holy humanist.
Hey there, the epic trinity.
I don't care what reality is.
You three make me a believer.
Wink face.
I love it.
That's so great.
And we have a question from Hang for She.
$20 super chat.
Thank you so much.
Also, a member.
I really appreciate it.
What do you guys think of Starracapullo's idea that the punishment meted out by Yahweh in Genesis
is logically consistent with the ancient nearest crime of eating food of the gods
rather than disobeying Yahweh?
That folds up theodicy, no?
Hold on.
Idea that punishments meted out by Yahweh in Genesis are logically consistent
with ancient Near Eastern crime of eating food of the gods.
So are we talking about Genesis 3 with Yahweh punishing Adam, Eve, and the serpent?
And the idea that the Babylonians had a section in their gardens, for example,
that certain food was literally designated for the gods?
Is that what you're getting at, Hang for?
If you're still here, I'm trying to wrap my head around the question,
because if that is the case, there are scholars that I've read,
several of scholars who do think the Babylonian gardens that they had in their temples,
they had sections that were only where fruits were for the gods.
And slaves or people who were not elites that were higher ups,
were not allowed to even go in those areas, especially don't eat it.
And so they think there might be correlation to the punishments that might come to them.
If you think about it, all the punishments are sort of food related.
Okay, I think that's what you're getting at.
I would say it makes sense from what he's saying, yeah.
Savraka Pula makes sense.
And then there's the idea that the symbol of this coiled serpent having to do with knowledge,
sort of a universal symbol, you see that with the Greeks,
then you get this with negashita and sumer.
And so it could have something to do with that being a simple catnod.
Serpent distills the fruit from gogum.
Serpent coiled around a tree, you're right.
So it's interesting to say the least.
I don't know if every punishment is related to food,
but maybe food is related to sex.
I know this sounds funny, but I did my video on Judah and Tamar,
and I went through and documented all the sex in Genesis.
Dude, someone who runs Game of Thrones make a video on Genesis, a whole show.
I don't jokingly say Genesis starts off with a bang.
And I mean it, literally.
Like Genesis 3, Adam and Eve eat this fruit.
We don't know if the serpent slept with Eve.
Some rabbis think there's something happening there.
And this is a euphemism for some type of sex.
Yahweh, we don't know who slept whether something might have happened
with that eating of the food.
Later on, you see this happening over and over and over.
So it also interests me personally how Noah is drunk off wine,
and then his son sees his father's nakedness.
Makes me think of a bucket type of like Dionysian.
I don't know why I keep going back to this.
Well, he's a planter of the vine, you know.
Right.
He's the idea, yeah.
But even with Lot and his daughters, he brings wine.
Like two angels of God go,
hey, get the hell out of here, bro.
I'm about to nuke this place.
And they're like, hey, make sure you grab the wine.
And then they get their father drunk in a cave down the road,
and they both sleep with their dad.
They literally see their father's nakedness,
but the dad doesn't know that they slept with.
Or, you know, it's crazy.
Yeah, it gives the impression that there's something deeper
meaning behind, like it meant something to the time period
when it was written that would have made sense to the audience.
Right, right, right.
I got one last question as we wrap up,
but before I do that, if you got, you're all subscribed.
I know you are, but not to conform and go check it out
if you like any of this content,
as well as the MythVision podcast as well.
Like there's an amazing video, by the way, on MythVision.
Where is it, Derek?
It's a amazing guest.
Oh, it's just a dude here.
That video got a lot of views.
I saw that.
He's like, who is it at right now?
It's huge.
132,000.
132,000, damn.
Oh, crap.
Yeah, you know that's something.
We recorded that.
Like that was like 120 gigs per video file.
Just for this way overkill.
Like both recorded with heavy.
Oh, wow.
Well, that did off.
Look it.
You guys got views.
Yeah, but, you know, you guys both have amazing channels.
Let's wrap this up with the last question now.
We have missed a fair few.
We've missed an organized clergy,
designed, doesn't get holidays or festivals,
recognition of an antagonist forces,
and the entity is opposing the divine,
a mission to disseminate the faith teaching
to a wider audience.
So they're all things I didn't get to ask.
But the one I want to ask is, and remember,
these are all things that I'm going to ask you.
Are they, do they predate Christianity?
Do they predate Judaism?
A central figure whose self-sacrifice or pivotal act
is deemed essential for the salvation
or enlightenment of followers.
Dionysus.
I mean, that's the obvious one.
We, Ellisonian Mysteries, with his death being,
his, his return from Hades,
and you taking part in drinking the,
drinking the Kaikyan, would you take part in that?
So yeah, I would say so.
Osiris.
Osiris, big one.
Yeah.
Big time, without Osiris.
By the way, Osiris and Dionysus are interchangeable,
according to a lot of these angels, right?
You know, I had to just go to...
No, it's a different God.
Like, I'm not saying they're the same God, but like, yeah.
Yeah, I went to the Mac Daddy Egyptian God,
because the Nile, right?
Like, you wouldn't have your agriculture,
you wouldn't have your bread, your yeast,
you wouldn't have that resurrection of the plants from Earth,
which also represent an erection out of the ground,
which is super sexual, the entire mythos is sexual.
Your food, your bread, your yeast rises,
the whole idea of that is also sexual.
There's a lot in there that...
So you got Adonis, where Adonis is death,
and this is not with people's soul or anything,
but like, they would, the Syrians and Phoenicians
would believe in Adonis dying,
and every year when the river,
it was called the River Adonis,
it's called River Abraham now,
but it was called River Adonis,
and every year around spring,
it would turn red because all the rain
would bring down the rock material,
and it would get into the water,
and it turn it red, it looked like the blood of Adonis,
and that was the same time when plants would start to grow.
So it's like, the blood of Adonis
is giving salvation to the world, the plants are growing.
So there was a lot of, Adonis was like that too.
It's very cyclical.
Yeah, it was more nature, and this is like Tamuz.
They had people, a lot of scholars think,
Adonis is a evolution of Tamuz-Dimuzi,
overtaking, being passed down from the Syrians to the Syrians,
and Adon means Lord, so Adonis, Lord.
And for those who don't know who Tamuz or Adonis,
really Tamuz is, that's related to Inanna.
So you have Inanna, we've all heard of the goddess Inanna,
2000 BCE, or maybe even older than that,
in Sumerian myth, who's a female goddess who like,
goes through the layers into the underworld,
and like is shedding her clothes while the demons are around,
like literally wanting her death,
and in the end, she just practices.
They do, they peg her up,
they peg her up on a wooden thing,
and that says that she's lifeless, she's dead,
and then they had to send Gali,
like eunuch priestesses, to come down and give her bread to revive her.
Water of life and bread.
And then as she resurrects, the plants grow.
Right, so there's all sorts of stuff with that.
It's just the idea of a one time, for all finishing thing.
That is a merged idea of several things happening later, I think.
And you have several figures that might be these heroic figures,
maybe even looking at the Caesar's, who represented the nation.
Kind of like we see the hint in the gospel say something like,
isn't it better that one man die for the whole nation?
The Maccabees gives this idea with the seven brothers who get martyred for the nation,
but also the idea of the Caesar's representing the nation of Rome
and their mythos that comes behind.
So there's a lot there.
I would say there's something with the imperial cult
that plays a significant role as well.
So that's amazing.
So to answer the question of the screen, God, myth or fact,
where do we draw the line?
I think the jury is still there, and they need to go to your channels
to kind of keep diving into these subjects,
because you guys are about to release some banger documentaries,
banger videos.
But I think, to me, it seems like a lot of it's pointing to a lot of its mythology.
A lot of it's at least these ideas have been developed over time,
their memes, essentially, in the zeitgeist of the time.
But one thing I do want to say is, guys, your channels are blowing up
and my channel is going pretty well as well.
Last time you guys were on, I had 1200 subscribers.
Now I'm at like four and a half thousand.
That was like seven months or so.
You guys have gone from what, like, Gnostic.
We'll continue to happen with you.
It's going to keep going at that rate.
So instead of 4, 8, 12, it's going to go 12, 24, boom.
That's what you're starting to notice.
It's like there's this multiplication potential.
As long as you keep doing it, man, your content's good.
Your content's good.
You'll be fine.
Don't give up.
You guys have just, both of you guys have just crossed 100,000 subscribers
and just like exploded from there.
Like, Derek, you're on 166 now.
Neil, you're on 120.
Is that right?
Yeah.
Dude, you guys are just like killing it.
I got a documentary coming out soon next couple of days on early Christianity
and I'm only focusing on the first two centuries.
That's it.
You don't want to mess with it.
That is good.
It's Wild, Wild West.
The question is, I'll leave you the question.
We all know that the schism around 150,
about the middle of the second century, the schism between the Gnostics
and what they call proto-Orthodox.
I hate that word.
The question is, is there a way to say this side is correct
in interpreting the Bible and this side is a heretic?
The question is, can we really say that?
Like, if we look at Paul and the Gospels
and we look at what the Gnostics are saying and what the proto-Orthodox are saying,
is one of them vindicated over the other or do they both have some points?
Are they both drawing from the biblical text in their own way?
That's what I'm going to answer.
And it's so hot.
Oh, God.
I don't even, we got to talk.
We should do a follow-up after that documentary.
And just teasing with my upcoming one, the next one I want to drop,
it depends on which one gets edited first.
I want to do one, the myth of Samson.
To me, and the reason I want to say something,
if you've seen any of my documentaries, any of them,
Adam and Eve, Cain and Abel, Lot, Sodom and Gomorrah, Abraham, Jacob, Joseph,
Moses, I just dropped, any of them, no story in the Bible is more strange
in the way that it acts in the biblical text than Samson.
And you bet your ass on making the case that the biblical author is borrowing its narrative.
Obviously, there's influence from Gilgamesh into the Greek world,
but I'm saying they know Heracles.
They know the myth of Heracles, and they are using that and the Greek sources
to help create the story of Samson.
And while, and you'll see later, I make the case,
they're even talking about the God Dagon in Jewish sources written in the 2nd century BCE,
and the idea of Philistines, all that.
That's still being talked about by Jews in the 2nd century BCE.
So most scholars would just say, man, this was written,
the Philistines influenced Jews at 1,000 BCE.
And that's what, no, no, no, this is still going on all the way into the 2nd century.
Another thing that highlights what we've been getting at is when this Judaism come around,
well, the archaeology shows that we don't start seeing synagogues until around 200 BC.
Archaeologists have not found, we haven't found a synagogue that predates 200 BCE.
Well, not only the synagogues, the baptism pool immersion pools where Jews would ritually bathe.
There's thousands of them, and we know where they're at.
Yonatan Adler, who's like the leading archaeologist on this,
he has a map where he pinpoints on a map all the way through the Levant.
You see every dot, mainly gets really centralized in Jerusalem,
but it's still spread all the way down in Dead Sea regions.
And the point is, we don't have any of those pools that date before the 2nd century into the 3rd century BCE.
They started these ritual baths, they started synagogues,
they started all this religious stuff.
And guess what you do see before all that?
You see temples, you see Asherah poles and temples of Asherah and all these other gods.
You see all that stuff.
So just saying, the archaeology kind of goes over what we're saying a little bit.
Yeah, what we can guarantee you, what is it, Terminicide Quen?
Terminicide Quo?
The latest, the guaranteed date of is at least 2nd, 3rd century BCE.
Yeah, and then it flourishes during the Hasmoneans.
That's when Judaism is on the map, baby.
I love having you guys on, because you give me so much to go Google and go read up on,
because it's like...
Let's take my word for it.
I could have been walking around with a lot of stuff tonight.
Both of you guys seem all fine.
Let me know if I am, though.
I was in the cell just pouring over manuscripts.
But thank you guys for coming on.
Yeah, I'm just trying, that's all.
I'm just trying.
Dude, I'm never wrong.
Well, actually, saying that, next week we have Dr. Jennifer Bird coming up,
and then the next, and we also have Derek coming on,
Christmas around Christmas time again, for the annual, Derek Knows Everything Christmas Special.
I don't know where you get this.
It's not.
You do a Saturnalia stream on one of our channels.
Oh, yeah.
Neil, you got to pull up all your stuff.
I'll hold that one.
I can host that one, maybe.
You should bring your sources, because you're the one who's like
bucking up against Michael Jones and...
I had him on, yeah.
Because he made this weird post that Saturnalia has no influence whatsoever on the Christmas season.
And I was like, oh, my God, this guy's...
Oh, wait, did you do that?
I brought him on.
I showed him like 10 primary sources from ancient Roman, ancient Greeks.
Really?
And I'm like, look, this one actually literally says they're giving presents,
decorating their houses with greenery.
I'm like, come on, dude.
He was like, but it doesn't say anything about...
Like, he was like looking for an envelope.
What?
What I don't...
Why does...
This is what I don't understand.
It's like, because I don't know why Michael cares.
Like, who cares?
Lots of things are pagan.
Like, lots of things are like not from...
It just helps when Christians say we started this and had no influence.
It wasn't done.
He recently said it was that Halloween has nothing to do with Samhain.
I'm like, who cares if it does?
What does it matter?
He just doesn't like holidays for some reason.
He just wants it all to be Christian for some reason.
I don't know.
Oh, look, man, he dressed his daughter up as Gandalf and I love that.
He dressed his daughter up as Gandalf and I love that.
And then a bunch of his community said that he's a wolf in sheep's clothing
and that he's got the spirit of Satan in him or whatever
because he celebrates Halloween.
So, like...
Oh, man.
He gets hate from both sides.
I feel sorry for Michael because he gets hate from both sides.
He's like...
He's mad at me because I talk shit of it to him on Twitter a lot.
But I don't have a problem with him.
I recently tweeted him and tweeted him this morning and trolled him.
And he liked it.
So...
Because he says the dumbest shit ever.
I can't help it.
I can't help it.
He says some stuff.
I'm just like, dude, what are you talking about?
I'll just let's see one more thing real quick because he goes...
He makes this post about Zoroastrianism being after Christianity.
And he says, like, he goes, look, this text was written in 400 AD.
And, like, he's talking about a translation of one of their central texts,
which they have a bunch of central texts.
And I'm like, that was such a weird argument.
Like, are you seriously trying to say Zoroastrianism comes after Christianity?
And he was like, well, you know, we don't know it.
And I'm like, okay, anyways.
That's like saying...
I'm ranting now.
That's like saying Eusebius, when he quotes Philo of Biblos, about El, okay?
Well, because it comes so much later, we can't say that the El source that he's specifically
talking about is actually earlier than the Judaic Christian account of El.
Even though Aristotle cites Sanconiathan in one of his books from 300 BC.
So, like, you have...
Right then and there, you have a solid starting point.
Like, you already have it cited, right?
So, same as Zoroastrianism, cited all over the place.
So, just because a translation comes along later, all of a sudden the whole thing's...
Like, whoa!
Like, I don't know.
I'm ranting now.
But those type of posts...
I can't help it.
I'm like a magnet to that stuff on Twitter.
Dude, Twitter...
I have to fucking touch it.
I'm like, I'm telling a story.
But no, it's Twitter, man.
Like, I think there's something...
I realized that...
I've told you guys this, right?
Like, I realized...
Like, I was always arguing with Cameron or Concapturing Christianity, by the way.
You know, an all-powerful God doesn't need to rest on the seventh day and, like, whatever else I'm...
No.
And I got to the stage where I was downloading a meme from, like, a Christian,
like, non...
Like, just like a random, no-name Christian,
and changing it to point at holes in what I thought their theology was.
But I'm so busy.
I'm like, I don't have time.
Why am I doing this?
Why am I so angry?
Like...
And I was like, I actually reached out to Cameron.
I reached out to Cameron.
I reached out to Axe27 apologetics or whatever.
I reached out to a bunch of them.
I said, hey, I've been to Discord Twitter.
I'm trying to change.
You know, I'm pumping the brakes.
Anyway, thanks, guys, for coming on.
I've been really appreciated.
It's been awesome episodes.
Thanks for all the super chats and all the people who subscribe to Patreon.
And subscribe to this channel.
I really appreciate it.
And we'll see you guys next time.
Bye.
Peace.
