In the swirling midst of time, four names stand eternally etched, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and
John.
Penned anonymously, 40 to 70 years post the events they narrate, these texts were not
inked in Jesus' language, nor in the language of his disciples.
Instead, they found life in Koiny Greek.
Why?
Today, we're on the brink of unraveling, unveiling perhaps the greatest controversy
within textual criticism.
If Dennis R. McDonald's work holds true, it could rewrite the records of Christian
history, impacting the belief of a staggering 2.6 billion devotees.
Buckle up, seekers of truth, deep truth, we're about to plunge headlong into this riveting
hypothesis.
Let's unravel the secrets of that may redefine a religion.
My dear friends, I am very excited for this episode.
I think this might be the best episode of the year, just going off feelings, and it's
not just because he's a McDonald.
But I'm super proud to introduce Dennis R. McDonald, Dr. Dennis R. McDonald.
His journey began at Duke University, extended to Yale Divinity School, and culminated with
a PhD in religion from Harvard University.
Dr. McDonald has been instrumental in highlighting the profound influence of Greek literature
in the New Testament.
His latest work, a reference book, linked below, is called Synopsis of Epic Tragedy
and the Gospels.
Dr. McDonald also has a course on MVP courses, linked below.
I'm going through it.
It's phenomenal, and I'd like to formally welcome, hopefully, my new best friend, Dennis
R. McDonald.
Thank you.
Thank you, David McDonald.
No, your introduction's far too generous.
I just hope we can have some fun as we try to entertain the people who are watching you,
and perhaps they'll learn something important, too.
I think that we definitely will.
Your work is, I mean, even if you don't subscribe to the conclusions that you may hold, it's
still profoundly important, because I think it roots the Gospel writers in the environment
that they were in.
It gives background to everything, but it goes beyond that, and we will get into that.
But first of all, what are we drinking today?
Lafrueg Scotch.
I'm so excited.
You were speaking my language.
At McDonald, you said we're both Scots.
We've got to drink some.
We might have some Scotch, so we had some Lafrueg, and I'm pouring myself a decent
dram of Scotch today.
It's actually funny.
One of my favorite things about Scotch is no one can decide what a dram is.
So everyone will say, oh, a dram of whiskey, no one can decide how much it is.
So a dram can be however much you want.
So that's the best thing I think about Scotch is I poured myself a little dram of whiskey,
but this might just be a half dram or a full dram, but either way, I'm going to enjoy it.
So Dennis, before we jump into your before we jump into it, I just have one question
to kind of like kickstart this whole conversation.
And so you find similarities between sorry, I've just lost my notes there for a second.
So what do you think the author's goals were in in in like with your hypothesis?
What do you think the author's goals were in?
Oh, my gosh, my brain is just like fogged over for a second here.
What do you think the authors, the the gospel authors goals were in using the Greek
tragedies to to align the gospels?
What do you think their goals were there?
Well, I want to start out without the gospels, but to Christian apocrypha, the Acts of Andrew.
As you said in your introduction, I got my PhD from Harvard and I worked with Helmut Kester,
who was Rudolf Bultmann's last student.
And I was really a fan of traditional redaction criticism and the kind of folkloric understanding
of the emergence of the Christian myth.
And it was OK, naive, but there was some psychological or sociological cache to these myths.
But I was working as a primarily a textual critic, David.
I'm not a theologian.
I'm not a historian of religion.
I'm a philologian.
And I became interested in the apocryphal Acts of Apostles because when I was working
as a graduate student, several of them had not been really well edited.
And the languages in these texts include not just Greek and Latin, but Syriac, Coptic,
sometimes Anglo-Saxon and Armenian.
And I enjoyed knocking around with those languages and trying to find out what would
be the primitive readings of these texts.
And while I was working on the Acts of Andrew, I was trying to make it look like these were
simply Christian legends from the late second century.
And I was using a Bultmannian form critical model for understanding these myths.
And it didn't work.
And I got a national endowment for the Humanities Grant from the American government
to study folklore and realize that these are not folkloric stories.
They're actually intellectual stories that are portraying the apostle Andrew, who is
a fisherman whose name means manliness, as an alternative to Greek heroes, most obviously
Odysseus and Heracles to some extent Achilles, but also as a Christian
philosopher, very much like Plato's Socrates.
And so I wrote this up in two forms.
One was an addition of the Acts of Andrew and the other was a book called Christianizing Homer.
And while I was working on that, I thought I had discovered an anomaly, a kind of a one off.
Here we have a Christian intellectual at the end of the second century, probably from Egypt,
who was engaging the mythologies of the Greeks, especially the Homeric epics,
and also philosophy through Plato to make their heroes more compassionate or smarter or more
theologically sophisticated and so on.
And during that time, it was about 10 years of work.
I thought it was one off.
But then in 1984, I was preparing a lecture on the Gospel of Mark, and I had never been happy
with Mark and scholarship at the time.
So I got up at four o'clock and I made myself a pot of coffee, not a le frog.
And just read the Gospel in English.
And I was astonished by what I saw, David.
Jesus sails the seas like Odysseus with a crew that is incapable of suffering the way he is.
The Jewish authorities play the role of Penelope suitors who are murderous and greedy.
Jesus plays the role then of Odysseus.
Oh, and the disciples play the role of Odysseus's crew.
And when Jesus dies, he plays a role that is very similar to the death of Hector,
where three women lead the laments.
His father has to beg for his body for burial.
But the difference is, of course, that Hector stays in his grave, but Jesus rises from the dead.
And so Mark is trying to show that Jesus is superior, or his God is superior,
to the gods that had protected Hector, who was primarily the gods of Apollo and Zeus.
But I did not have the courage, David, to give my lecture to my students without digesting it.
So I spent a summer just on a whim as a kind of an intellectual project.
To see if the author of the Gospel of Mark was doing what I had seen in the Acts of Andrew.
And I was astonished that he did so more thoroughly and more brilliantly.
And the methodology that I had been exposed to in working on the Acts of Andrew
is called mimesis, that is literary imitation.
And it was taught widely in rhetorical schools so that students could craft a story that's
modeled after a successful story, almost always from Greek poetry.
A part of this project, too, was a project that was called synchrosis.
Synchrosis is a comparison of heroes to show that one hero is better than another.
And we see this, David, in the Gospels, where Jesus is better than Moses, or better than Elijah,
or whatever. But it also is clear that Jesus in the Gospels is better than Odysseus and Hector,
and his God is more compassionate. Now, so it took me a while, though, to realize
that it's not just a literary project. It's also a sociological project. And it goes like this.
Mimesis, in the early Roman Empire, we're talking anytime from Augustus, let's say, to Trajan,
was consumed with mimesis as a way of establishing alternative social identities.
The most famous example is Virgil's Aeneid, where Virgil imitates the Homeric epics and other poetry
to establish that the Augustan age is better than the Greek cycle, that Aeneis is more courageous
and more honest than Odysseus, and just as brave as a Hector or Achilles. But this was going on
among Jews, too. Jews, too, were imitating the Homeric epics to establish there what they understood
to be a superior social identity, the superior theology, a superior religion, more compassionate.
And of course, they had Plato to thank for some of this, because Plato's Socrates also was very
critical of the ethics of the Homeric poems, so much so that he thought that people would not
read them to their children. And the idea that Achilles would rather be a slave on earth than
the Lord of all the dead is not what you want to tell a soldier when he's about to die going out
on a battlefield. So then Socrates, according to Plato, creates his own mimesis as an alternative
to make her courageous death in warfare honorable and rewarded. So Jews and Christians and pagans
all were involved in mimesis as alternative social construction. What I like to call
the contestation of canonical pasts. The canonical past of Jews was primarily the
Septuagint or the old Greek. The Septuagint was still in for forming at that time. But the canonical
past of the Greeks was Greek poetry, the Homeric epics especially, but also some Athenian poetry
in Homeric hymns. So by crafty, so the question was why would these authors bother to imitate
Greek poetry? It's not simply that they're plagiarizing or stealing or remythologizing.
My work has been criticized as though it's plagiaristic or that these people are simply
stealing mythologies. They're not. They're engaging these mythologies to show that their in-group
and their hero represent better, more compassionate mores and traditions and theologies than their
opponents who are the outgroups. And the outgroup includes the traditional pagans who believed in
the myths of Homer and so on. Now what happens in the early church is this literary impulse
often gets lost as in place of a historical understanding of these texts. So it's not that
Jesus can calm the seas like Eolus, the god of the winds and the odyssey. It's rather that he
actually did, you know, was on the sea and he calmed the winds. He can walk on water like
Hermes, but people don't think of it that way. They just say he can walk on water. And so it
they early on the church historicized these stories instead of understanding them
as competitive mythologies or mimesis. And classicists are well aware of the importance
of mimesis in Greek literature. And they're happy to find these parallels in let's say Lucian satires
or or other imitations. But they're loath to see them in Christian texts, because they assume
that Christian authors were not very intelligent. I think that kind of patriotism.
It has no place in the academy. These are really brilliant authors. Now I don't know that I've
uncovered. I know that I've not uncovered everything there is to say about this David,
because I continue to make discoveries probably on a monthly basis. But I think I've I think I found
enough to put them in this massive books synopses of epic tragedy in the Gospels. It's 570 pages.
Oh, it's big. By the way, you can buy it for $30 in the United States, and you can buy it for $180
in the United States. And so I can't believe that. Let me just let me just quickly show something.
So the here's the book. It is it's a big reference book, right? So you're not going to sit down and
read this from start. That's right. Exactly right. But but it's and you know, the reviews are just,
you know, five stars, five stars, five stars. It's it's really big. It's really, really big. And
and it has your work, like it has, you know, one of the Gospels and it has one of the, you know,
the elite of the Odyssey or one of the Greek literature on one side. And you can see the
similarities that just the whole way through. And it's just incredible. David, have you ever
seen anything like it? No, I haven't. No, there's nothing like it. Well, I'm very new to Greek,
all Greek. I've never read the Iliad, I've never read the Odyssey or anything like that. And I've
but I've never seen anything like this before. What I will say is someone
before asked the question, is bemesis like the many iterations of Romeo and Juliet stories that
we have? So is it like how the story of Romeo and Juliet kind of gets told over and over and over
again? Or is it like, is it a bit different than that? Oh, that's a wonderful example. And so
West Side Story would be an amazing example of memesis. But of course, Romeo and Juliet has also
been staged as Romeo and Juliet with modern characters and with modern lines and with
truncated verse and so on. So there's a big difference to be made, David, and your questioner
between a redaction of a work that is some of these restorations of Romeo and Juliet
are more redactional. They're more editorial. You still know it's about Romeo and Juliet.
But if you, unless you knew what Leonard Bernstein was about, you might not suspect that
West Side Story was Romeo and Juliet, because it's such a different story. The names are different
and so on. That's memesis. So you have some reiterations of Romeo and Juliet that are redactional,
because you can still see Romeo and Juliet as characters, even though they're transformed.
But what you have in West Side Story and other places is truly memetic. And by the way,
memesis happens in art all the time. It's not just in movies. One can see it in
literature, in music, in art. Someone has said, good artists borrow from antecedents.
Great artist steal.
Yeah, and so that's a bit unfair. But these, I want you, I wanted to come back to this issue.
These authors are not trying to hoodwink the readers to take their work as history.
They're trying to take their works as they want people to read their works as alternative
foundation events, histories, much like Virgil's and Neid's, in order to attract people to their
understanding of their leader, or even more importantly, to fortify the readers who may be
feeling jeopardized that their hero doesn't have it to compete with the likes of Odysseus
and Heracles. Well, this is actually, I don't know if this graph even works, but I made this last
night at midnight before I went to bed and was spent all night up with our six month old. So
these bags are Gucci. But anyway, beyond the point. So I made this graph and
tell me if this is even in the right realm of things. So this graph, I'm not sure if you
can see that very well. But we got this line, and I've got at the start here, retelling an
accurate account of what happened in history. So what actually happened, word for word,
whatever. And this is the motivation of the Gospel writers. And then on the other end,
we have not in alignment with historical facts. So it has nothing to do with what actually happened
in the real world. It's just a kind of theological work. It's just a work to
kind of fortify a community. And I was wondering if, one, does this work to ask,
can I ask this question? Does it even work to ask this question? But where do you think along the
line is, are the Gospel writers, are they kind of retelling events that parts of it happened?
Like maybe Jesus did have some followers who were fishermen. But the story about,
you know, him, you know, telling them to leave their nets and come follow him,
that's all just made up or not made up, but it's memesis or it's a different retelling.
Where along this line would you put the... Well, that's a question that I get quite a bit.
And I'm going to have to answer it in two different ways. One is that the authors are not
interested in this graph. So that when you have... Oh, let me start this way.
A literary judgment about a text is not necessarily a historical judgment about a text.
So let me give you an example. I don't think that Joseph, that Judas Iscariot existed at all.
Oh, okay. But and that's because everything that we know about him from literature
can be explained by a comparison with Odysseus' turncoat slave Melantheus,
who plays an important role in last chapters of the books of the Odyssey.
Now, on the other hand, Jesus apparently was betrayed or given up, as Paul says in 1 Corinthians.
So maybe there was some hanky-panky from Jesus' in-group. I don't know that,
but you don't need that history to account for the text. And here's my big commitment.
We don't know if these texts are historical, but we do know that they're texts.
And as texts, they are historical in themselves. So whether Mark is telling a historical story
or not, it is a historical book and has to be taken seriously as very formative in the creation
of the Jesus myth. So what I try to tell my students, and I spend most of my time teaching
ministerial students in seminaries, it's up to you to decide if at the literary level,
these characters are playing such a prominent role and one that can be interpreted in terms of
Greek poetry and to say that they didn't exist. I'm giving you permission to say they may have existed,
but then they became so mythologized that we really can't trust what we find in the Gospel
of Mark to have said much about them. The same things true of Mary Magdalene. I don't think
Mary Magdalene existed, and I can tell you that most of my female students in seminary
thought that she was a great hero, and they didn't want to give up that mythology.
And what I can say is, well, that's fine, but you don't have any historical evidence for her
that isn't tainted by her role as Andromache, Hector's wife. So with respect to your chart,
people are going to answer that differently, David, depending on how much weight they give to
mimesis, that is literary imitation, and how much they are attracted to these characters in some
fundamental way. And I'm not in a position to say that they didn't exist. I'm just in a position
to say you don't need them to exist to explain the narrative. Sorry. Is it like seeing a painting
and trying to decipher its worth by calculating mathematically how much paint was used,
rather than looking at the painting and going, this is beautiful for XYZ reason? Is it like that?
Is it like you're using the wrong... I'm thinking about it wrong. Is that work?
I'm going to change the image a little bit, but I like the image of art.
When you go to the Louvre and you see the magnificent painting of the Mona Lisa,
are you absorbing the image of Michelangelo? Or are you concerned about, I wonder who this
woman really was? Was she Spanish? Was she Italian? What did she look like when she was older and so on?
To ask that question is to ignore the art. And what we have in the gospels is people ignoring the art
of the gospels in order to imagine what could these stories have been, who are the characters,
and so on. So I don't think it's quite like trying to analyze the depth of the paint,
or the origin of the paint. It's rather to say, does this image square with reality?
And by the way, probably Michelangelo, apparently he did, have a particular woman
he was fond of that he painted that way and felt he never got it right.
Interesting. That makes a lot of sense. Well, so this is a big question that
I know that you're keen to add to kind of answer, but a lot of people will say that your work is
maybe an attempt to discredit Christianity. It's a way to remove the deity, remove the
God, remove the divine powers in the scripture. So I've got a bit of a two-part question, and
maybe we'll, the first part, and then we can go into the second part. But do you think that,
one, that's accurate? And two, when you first discovered this stuff, were you a
practicing Christian, and how did it influence your faith? Were you a Christian when you
discovered this? Or can we go into a little bit of your story as well?
Well, I grew up in a fundamentalist Christian home, and I'm a graduate of Bob Jones University.
So it doesn't come in the American form much more conservative than that.
But I became radicalized because of the civil rights movement and the war in Vietnam,
and decided that if I'm going to stay a Christian, it cannot be a right-wing,
fundamentalist type. It had to be an alternative form of being a Christian.
And so immediately after college, I worked at a church in California,
and David, I translated the entire New Testament from Greek for myself in nine months.
And during that time, I was a youth pastor of a church, a Baptist church in Salinas,
and I wanted to get the young people involved in some projects. And I made friends with some
Catholic clergy who were working with migrant workers, and some of them immigrants, some of
them illegal probably. And because I encourage the young people to work with us with food banks
for migrant workers and so on, I was fired from the job. And the ethics that I was reading about
in the New Testament had nothing to do with the religion that I was trying to help out with this
in church. And so I became really fully radicalized at that point. I helped start the Sojourner
magazine, which is a left-leaning evangelical magazine. It is still active today, and it's
taken some really wonderful turns, even though I'm no longer a confessing Christian.
But during that time, I also became more of a humanist, David, and I was a scholar.
And I relished being an objective historian and philologian, and fell in love with ancient languages
and ancient texts and so on, and not just the New Testament. As I said, I was interested in
Christian apocrypha. I was interested in Greek and Roman narrative and philosophy. In fact,
my secondary major at Harvard was in Greek philosophy. So I became more of a humanist
that way. But again, I spent my career in seminaries. I taught at Union Theological Seminary.
I taught at the Claremont School of Theology and the Isle of School of Theology. My whole career
was to make Christian ministers smarter about the New Testament, and not fundamentalists.
And because I felt that it was the institutional church that had the most investment in what I
was trying to accomplish. It wasn't in the university. It wasn't in liberal arts colleges,
as much as I enjoy teaching that. And I have taught in those contexts. But theological students
come with an interest in the Bible, let's hope. And I was trying to steer that in a different
direction. My students generally loved what I did, and they were petrified about sharing that with
boards of ordained ministry, because they wanted to get ordained. And if they would misrepresent
the kind of work I was doing, they feared that they wouldn't be allowed into ministry. Now,
there were some exceptions. But the institutional church has not been warm to my work. And that's
unfortunate. And I think it's unnecessary, even though I'm happy to be an atheist, but I'm not
an anti-religious atheist. Certainly not an anti-Christian one. And I would hope that progressive
Christians can take what I've done and apply it in their own ministries and not be so stupid about
the Gospels. There's an entrenched ignorance about this. Oh, yeah. Not only is it stupid,
but there is a level of dishonesty when you get to those... Absolutely is. When you start talking
about young earth creationism and stuff, you're getting to levels of like, okay, this is just
getting silly. But something... We normally do superchats for the end, but this is just so relevant
for the moment. Thank you, Nidhi, for the $10 superchat. Dennis, you are a true example of
adjusting your beliefs in accordance with new evidence. And that's... I really agree with that,
and I really respect you as a person. But one of the main reasons I respect you is you set this
on myth vision. Could you just retell the story of when you first noticed the racism
when you were at Bob Jones University, when you were in... I think it was Bob Jones,
and it was when Martin Luther... Yeah, could you retell that part of the story?
My senior year at Bob Jones University, in April 4th, the entire student body was together with
the faculty to hear a lecture by a John Burt Society member. And the president of the university
Martin Luther King Jr. has just been shot in Memphis, Tennessee. And the president has asked
us to fly the flag at half-mast, but will not fly the flag at half-mast for an apostate.
That is a quotation. From what I could see, everyone in the room stood and cheered and clapped.
I had never, David, seen such an issue of racism. I grew up in Flint, Michigan, which was very much
a biracial town because of the automobile industry. And I had good friends who were
African Americans and Jews. We didn't have many Hispanics at that point. But I just couldn't
believe what happened. So every night, we had 20 minutes of what they called prayer reading
before going to bed. And I got to the room. I was so furious. I said, we are not
praying today. We're talking about what happened. And I don't ask you to agree with everything that
the African American freedom movement, liberation movement means. But you don't cheer when somebody
gets shot, who's the leader of a group that is trying to seek liberation. The next morning,
I was whisked off to the dean's office. And they were going to expel me on the pretense of
preventing prayer. And the dean happened to be a friend of my father's. So the dean called my dad
and said, I want to tell you that we're expelling Dennis even though he's just a month away from
graduating for preventing prayer. So my dad said, can I talk to Dennis? Well, I told my dad what
happened. And I returned the receiver back to the dean. And before he could get it to his ear,
I heard my father shouting, Gilbert, you do what you need with Dennis, but I've never been prouder
of him. And how proud did that make me of my dad? My dad was a fundamentalist pastor,
but he did his senior project for his master of divinity on antisemitism in the church.
So he was aware of these racial issues in a way that was really quite striking and unusual at the
time for fundamentalist preachers. And because of that, the school did not expel me. But they put
me under the guardianship of one of their stooges. And I finally graduated. But after a few years,
I sent my degree back in protest to the racism. It almost meant that I couldn't get to graduate
school because I couldn't demonstrate a diploma. And Bob Jones declared that I never existed. I
was never there as a student. So yeah, that's the story. I didn't know that last part. That's it.
This is this is what I mean is you say you you you clearly stand up for what you believe in. And
it's very admirable to see. And and, you know, I think everyone in the chat is saying thank you
for standing up for this. This is awesome. Someone said holy fuck. So basically, everyone's
everyone seems very impressed. So so thank you for sharing that. Going back to the
first discovering this and how you know, how it affected how you don't necessarily want it to be
like a flag for atheism or anything you want to you want to stop, I guess, Christian fundamentalists
from being so stupid. How how do you do you have some examples that we can go through of like some
of these some of these things that you think are clear as day that you can see Greek literature
in the Gospels. So an example I might like just an example I might have I read it down.
So Diane, I didn't know this. Dionysus turns water into wine before Jesus.
Right. And even and even early church fathers saw that as Dionysian.
Really? Oh, Clement of Alexandria has a passage where Jesus is inviting Dionysus to come to faith
in him. And he's quoting from the prologue of Euripides Bakai. Come on. We have a fifth century
poet who writes an entire Dionysian like epic call on on the on the Gospel of John. And so
when Jesus says, I am the true gate line, what are people in antiquity likely to think about that?
So, you know, that would be a good now that's an example from the Gospel of John, the ones in the
Gospel, the synoptic Gospels are even more spectacular. Okay, I'm going to tell you a story,
David, and you tell me if this sounds like anything in the New Testament. Okay.
Odysseus and 12 men are in a ship. Yeah, it sounds like. And they and they put in they put into a
foreign shore. And they explore the shore and they find that there's this huge cave.
And they go into the cave and help themselves to the cheeses that are there. And all of a
sudden, a giant Cyclops comes into his cave, and he closes the door. That's a huge rolling stone that
even ox carts can't carry away. And so then he eats some of the men, he intends to eat them all.
And Odysseus blinds him. And he and his men escape when Polyphemus attempts to let them out.
So, before he does so, though, he calls out to the other Cyclopes who come and they say,
what's the problem? Polyphemus. And he said, well, there's this guy who calls himself nobody,
Ootus. And Ootus is harming me. Well, they say, if nobody's harming you, so what's the problem?
And so they leave. So finally, Odysseus's men scramble out of the cave. They steal the sheep
onto their boat and they sail away. And Polyphemus shouts back and says, hey,
I didn't know you were Odysseus. Come back. I'm going to give you a traveler's gift. And Odysseus
knows best when he goes on. Well, later in the Odyssey, Odysseus and this man come across a
witch named Circe. And she turns soldiers into swine. And Odysseus is able to change them back
into their normal forms. But later, they all drown in the sea. Jesus and twelve men are in a boat
and they come across a savage who lives in the caves. Okay, nobody can bind him.
There's an exchange about were names. It's not Ootus. It's not nobody. But the person says legion
because we are many. He's infested by a little army of these defiling spirits. So what does Jesus
do? He plays the role of Circe and turns them all into swine and then drowns them. And that probably
has to do with his contempt for the Roman army after the Jewish war. Yeah, because the Roman army
was known as legions, right? Isn't everyone getting this right? No, it's a Latin loan word. They use
a Latin word, legion, where we get our word legion. Yeah. So in the story of Odysseus,
is it Odysseus, sorry? Yes, story of Odysseus. He meets someone called nobody. And then in
the Gospels, they meet someone called Legion. And in the story of Odysseus, they turn soldiers
into pigs. In the story with Jesus, he casts out legion, legion or soldiers, you could say,
into pigs. And they jump into the river and drown. That's right. And I did even mention
with the Garrison Demoniac that towns people come and they say, hey, what's going on?
Just like the cyclopes come. And the wording in many cases is the same, David. The sequence is
the same. By the way, before I go further, I want to say something about Mimesis criticism.
Comparative literature is naturally subjective. It's not an objective science the same way as
other philological projects are, like redaction, let's say. So you have to have careful criteria
to determine whether you actually have an imitation. So I have seven of them. The first is
accessibility. Is the targeted, the proposed targeted model available? Second, do other people
imitate it? This is analogy. That is, is it a part of the cultural furniture that people will
recognize such imitations. The third is density of parallels. The fourth is the sequence of
parallels. If they appear in the same order, they're more likely to be literary than just by
memory. Then distinctive traits. Are there things that hold these two texts together, the imitation
and the imitator and the imitated? And can you then, criterion six is very important. It's
interpretability. Why would somebody write a story built off of another story? And the final
criterion is ancient recognition. Did ancient readers see these similarities and comment on
them or develop them? Now in the case of interpretability, I'm going to address this as a question
to you. Who would you rather come to your island? Jesus or Odysseus? Odysseus blinds
polyphemus and steals his sheep. You want Jesus? And he gets out these demons and says,
tell them what the Lord has done for you. So the point is that, yes, Odysseus is powerful,
but Jesus is just as powerful and certainly more compassionate.
You talk about this a lot in the course. Let me just mention, everyone, guys, this course is,
I'm going through it. It is fantastic. I love it so much. It's such a good course.
And if you use the link in the description, you not only help Dennis out, but you help
myself out because I'm an affiliate of Amitvishon courses now. So if you want to
to join and learn about this stuff and dive deeper, go check it out. But it's just, I just,
I am just overwhelmed with how incredible some of these similarities are.
So you can so clearly see that if there was someone reading this at the time,
they could see their heroes, the people they've grown up with. And it's like casting a new light
on Jesus and saying, well, no, Jesus is actually a better version. And that's what's happening.
That's something that you've mentioned in the course. It's this idea that it's painting,
it's giving terminology to people. It's giving the terminology that people understand. So it's
you think this person's great? Well, this person's even greater for these reasons. It's kind of
interpreted. It's not just in the Greek language. It's in the Greek context as well.
That is very important. Hegel once wrote that Homer is the oxygen that Greeks breathe.
Now, Homeric Greek is very different from Koinei Greek, which is the Greek of the New Testament.
It's written in poetry. It's got characters who are violent and lascivious and polytheistic.
So that's one reason that people haven't taken it seriously. But ancient Greeks took it seriously.
One of the first lines that a student learns to write in Greek is Homer was not a man but a God.
When you wanted to write down names and practice characters on your tablet,
you would be given a Homeric name and you would write the letters out of Homer or Meron
or whatever. If you wanted to tell a shipwreck story, you were encouraged to read Odyssey Book 5.
If you wanted to tell a story about a Homeric heroic death, you might have
you might read and reread and then imitate the death of Hector. If you wanted to write a story
or something about athletic games, you might read about the games that appear after the death,
the Patroclus. It goes on and on, David. So these were models that people use for writing.
But knowledge of Homer wasn't just a way of gaining literacy. It also was a way of gaining
cultural identity as an intellectual among Greeks.
So in order for you to show that you're Pepepa Minas, that is, you're educated,
you needed to know something about Homeric epics. And there's some wonderful spoofs on this of people
who are pseudo-intellectuals and they mess up the Homeric images and so on. We find this in
Patronius, for example, or Lucian satires are just full of Homeric illusions.
And he just loves lampooning them as just so much non-
narratives. So when even Virgil is rewriting the Homeric epics, he expects his Latin readers to
be sufficiently familiar with them so that they can understand that Aeneas is a greater hero
than the Homeric heroes and that the fortunes of the early Roman Empire are going to far exceed
those of the Greek civilization. Wow. I was wondering, can we dive into one of your lectures
from the series and talk about just because we've been chatting for 50 minutes and I could keep
chatting for days, but I want to make sure that we get to some of the meat of this before we finish.
But lecture four, embarking on a journey and if you want, if people want to deep dive further into
this, they can. But I was wondering if we could go through the fishes of men in Mark 1, Mark 1,
14 to 20, if that works. Sure. Let's do a Bible study. This is a deep drinks Bible study. That's
what we do. So I was wondering, oh, you've gotten a bit dark there. I wonder what's going on.
Oh, that's a bit... Oh, yeah, that's better. Sorry. I was just wondering what's happening there.
Your camera is good? Well, I thought so. Yeah, yeah. That looks cool. Yeah, that looks fine.
So something that you point out in the course, well, I think Derek points it out. He really
hammers this home. And again, everyone, the course is amazing. Definitely check it out.
But I was wondering if I could read the Mark section and then you could talk about some of the
Greek if you've got your book there. Does that work? Sure. And I'm assuming...
Tell me what page you're looking at. Give me a marker. Oh, I actually don't know the page. Sorry.
Can you just give me something to... The fishes of men?
So it's where no one in history was called the body of water sea.
Okay. And Luke reworks it.
Oh, yes, I see it. Yeah. Awesome. Awesome. Okay. Do you want me to read that paragraph?
Uh, yeah, if it goes first and then I'll read the... I'll read Mark.
Okay, I'm going to read it up to the... toward the top. Here in Mark 116,
one finds the earliest reference anywhere to this body of water as the sea or thala saa of
Galilee. Perhaps more significantly, this login is the first reference anywhere to any
disciple as a fisherman. All data references to them sailing the sea of Galilee apparently are
literary descendants of Mark who created them to anticipate his imitations of the Homeric epics
in several later sailing episodes. The second century pagan philosopher Porphyry read
Mark precisely in this way. Do you want to read that paragraph?
Yeah, the... I've only got the Bible here. I don't have the actual...
Do you have experts in the truth about this?
No, I just have the Bible.
Oh, okay. Go ahead and read what you've got.
Okay. So the calling of the first disciples. Mark 114.
After John was put in prison, Jesus went into Galilee proclaiming the good news of God.
The time has come, he said. The kingdom of God is near. Repent and believe the good news.
As Jesus walked beside the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and his brother Andrew casting
nets into the lake, for they were fishermen. Come, follow me, Jesus said, and I will make you
fishers of men. At once they left their nets and followed him. When he had gone a little further,
he saw James, son of Zebedee, and his brother John in a boat preparing nets. Without delay,
he called them and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired men and followed him.
So this is something that we need to pause on just briefly because right there,
imagine... This is what Derek said. Imagine being at work and someone comes to you and says,
hey, I'll make you a fisher of men or a grocery store shop worker of men or a truck driver of
men. Imagine someone coming to you and saying, come, follow me, and they just get up and leave.
It seems like a very odd story, especially because in our earliest Gospel Mark,
he hasn't done any miracles yet. So it's a bit interesting there.
But Luke comes along and he adds a miracle. This miracle is one that takes place
in the Homeric hymn to Dionysus. So I don't know if that's something you want to look at, David.
Yeah, yeah. Let's look at that. I don't have the reference to Luke though. What's the...
Okay, so I'm going to have you read the passage in Luke from Luke 5.
Let's say verse...
Well, verse... Verses 1 to 11. Okay. One day. So this is...
I'm going to read you this story first. This is from the Homeric hymn to Dionysus.
Mm-hmm.
I will speak of Dionysus, son of Radiant Semile,
how he appeared by the shore of the barren sea at a jutting headland looking like a young man.
Soon, men on a well-decked ship, Tyranian pirates, quickly arrived over the glistening sea.
And when they saw him, they nodded to each other and jumped out quickly, grabbing him at once.
They put him aboard their ship, rejoicing at heart, for he appeared to be a son of good-natured kings.
End quotation. Then the pirates roped his hands and feet but to no avail.
The helmsmen understood immediately, cried out to his comrades and said,
madmen, what god have you seized and bound up? He's not like mortal men, but like the gods who
have Olympian homes. Soon, they saw amazing feats. First of all, throughout the swift,
black ship, wine sweet to drink and aromatic began to trickle. That's the god of wine, right?
And there rose an order in brosial. Amazement overtook the sailors when they saw it.
When the pilots witnessed an even more dangerous portent, they drove into the
brine and they became dolphins. But the god had mercy on the helmsmen, restrained him,
made him fortunate and said, take courage, good sir, you have found favor in my heart.
I am loud crying Dionysus. So I don't know if you can see this in the book, but there's a picture.
Oops, a picture of the pirates becoming dolphins. Oh, I can't, I don't know.
And so in Mark, the disciples, when we call this fishermen, are to be fishermen of people.
So you have the metaphor there. But go ahead and read what we find in Luke 511. No wonder.
So this is a retelling of the same story by an author, what, how many years later after Mark?
Like 20 years later after Mark? So. More like probably 70.
70 years, okay. No, no, no, I'm sorry, 50 years later, 50 years. 50 years, yeah, yeah.
So one day, as Jesus was standing by the lake of Genesirat with the people crowding around him
and listening to the word of God, he saw at the water's edge two boats left there by the
fishermen who were washing their nets. He got into one of the boats, the one belonging to Simon,
and asked him to put, put out a little from shore. Then he sat down and taught the people from the
boat. When they had finished speaking, he said to Simon, put it out into deep waters and let down
the nets for your catch. Simon answered, master, we have worked hard all night and haven't caught
anything. But because you say so, I will let down the nets. When they had done this, so when they
had done so, they caught such a large number of fish that the nets began to break. So they
signaled their partners in the other boat to come and help them, and they came and filled both boats
so full that they began to sink. When Simon and Peter saw this, he felt at Jesus' knees and said,
go away from me, Lord, I am a sinful man. For he and all his companions were astonished at the
catch of fish they had taken. And so were James and John, their son of Zebesi, Simon's partners.
Then Jesus said, Simon, don't be afraid. From now on, you will catch men. So they pulled their boats
up on shore, left everything and followed him. Okay, so let's play with the parallels. In both cases,
a stranger encounters people in a boat. In both cases, the stranger produces miracles
that produce fear. In both cases, one of the characters who is prominent
recognizes that in these miracles something enormous has happened and repents.
In both of these cases, then, we have portents that encourage the pirates who now are dolphins
to leave him alone or to the disciples to follow. And you mentioned yourself, David,
that the Gospel of Mark doesn't give any motivation for the disciples to follow Jesus whatsoever.
And what are they to make of the really awful trope to becoming Fisher people for humans?
Well, you have this business going on with the pirates becoming dolphins and so on,
but certainly you have a motivation for them now to follow Jesus. So he's seen a problem in Mark
and he's corrected the problem by using Greek poetry.
So what do you think the message is here for the Greek reader of this New Testament? What's the
message in this story? That Jesus is a miracle worker and that he's remarkable and that people
should follow him because he represents the powers that are recognized in the Greek world
to for Dionysus. Now, let's get back to the historical question. Did this ever happen? Absolutely
not. Okay, come on. This did not happen. Mark didn't know about it and it didn't happen.
So, but when you see it as a part of the cultural engagement of early Christians
with Greek poetry, it makes a lot of sense. Jesus can do what Dionysus can do.
Well, and it's very interesting. You mentioned to that nowhere in history ever before the Gospels
was the lake you could call it called the Sea of Galilee. I got a little little
Google Earth here. There's a lot of big bodies of water here. You think, oh, you got the Black Sea
up here. You got, you know, this, whatever's going on here. You're like, where's the Sea of Galilee?
Where's the Sea of Galilee? Like, zoom in a little bit, zoom in. Oh, this is the Sea of Galilee.
That's a great graphic. That's a great graphic. And like, I don't know if I can,
but it's a lake. Like, and, you know, nowhere, you mentioned this, nowhere
anywhere has this ever called a Sea. Why is it called a Sea? Why do you think the Gospel
writers are calling it a Sea? Well, first of all, I need to correct you just modestly.
Yeah. The already in Hebrew, that body of water is called a yam. And yam simply means a body of
water, and it can refer to a lake. It can also refer to a sea. So when Greeks translated yam,
one of their options, and they did use it, is thalasot to call it a sea. So it's not,
I'm not saying that, that body of water was never called a thalasot. It was in Greek translations
of the Septuagint and probably elsewhere. But otherwise, the, that body of water is called
the genisar or the chinareth. It's not called anything of Galilee. And so the point is to
exalt it into a sea similar to the Mediterranean, where you really do have dangers. By the way,
Derek was at the Sea of Galilee. Derek Lambert was at the Sea of Galilee. And the Gospel of Mark
talks about Jesus sailing with 12 ships. Believe it or not, nobody sails that body of water with
12 ships. There's no reason. And the ships they had were really little sailing boats.
There's, I wish I, I don't know where the, last night I found a way to, oh yes, here we go.
So these, these are some images people have taken. So this is supposed to be the sea where, this is
the sea, where they had that violent storm and the waves were, you know, you know, high. And
look, it's like, look at that. Like a mouse could probably swim across that. Like it's, it's, well,
it is a big lake. But like, it's not that, can you imagine a massive storm? Like, I don't know,
I don't know much about, you know, laking, but I just can't imagine it would be that,
like, catastrophic. But this, but this is, again, this is, this is going back to your
talking about using Greek literature to retell the story. You know, Odysseus went on his big
voyage into the, you know, and so it's like, well, sail to the land of the garrisons, right? Like,
if you cross this lake, would you say you sail to the land of? Like that's that.
Well, and in fact, Jesus, in the, with his disciples boat, Chris crosses the Sea of Galilee
many times. He walks on the water because his disciples can't manage the oars to get to the
other side. So the very fact that the Gospel of Mark is so dominated in the first 11 chapters
with the Sea of Galilee ought to alert you to the possibility that he's an Odyssean character,
even more so because his crew are a bunch of income poops. They don't understand,
they forget to bring bread on boat, on the boat. I mean, they're really a bunch of losers.
Yeah, so and this gets us right into, if you think necessary, jumping into
lecture five and just talking a little bit about the adventures in the Sea of Galilee.
Do you want to talk a little bit about page 143 in your book? And I can probably share on the screen.
First of all, this is, we are reading now from this book.
I'm on the American store, so it says currently unavailable for me in Australia,
but if you, the link's down in the description, if you're not in Australia,
you should be able to purchase it. And it's a huge book and it's, yeah, definitely check it out.
So that's what we're looking at right now. Okay, so what part of the book are you looking at exactly?
This section here. Marks and Jesus' Odyssey Awake in the Storm.
Sure, okay. Would you like to read it? Sure.
I'm going to begin with the second paragraph. Okay. At the beginning of Odyssey 10, when Reed said,
Odysseus' 12 ships arrived at the island of Eolia, their Eolus, son of Epitas,
dear to the immortal gods, lived on a floating island. Zeus had made that man the dispenser of
winds, both to come and to excite whichever he wished. For a month, the hero delighted the king
and his family with tales about the Trojan War, and the return Eolus gave him a bag of winds from
which he could unleash gusts into his sails as needed. Nine days later, never needing to open
the bag, Odysseus' flotilla came with inside of Ithaca, but had to wait until dawn to make
lightfall. Now, you're going to help me read this. I'm going to, you're going to
read the quote. Be the bad guys. You're going to be the crew. Okay. So Sweet Sleep came over me,
for I was weary from continually adjusting the sheet of the ship, never handling it over to
another of my comrades, so that we might arrive at our homeland quickly. But my comrades converse
with each other. They said that I was bringing home gold and silver, guess from Eolus, and this
is what David said. I'm going to put on a bit of a part accent. Come, now, come let us quickly
see. No, no, go for it. Come, let us see what, sorry. Come, let us quickly see what is there.
How much gold and silver in the bag? So they, no, so they spoke in the wicked plant of my
comrades one the day. They untied the bag and all the winds rushed out. The gale immediately
snatched them and drove them out to sea, weeping away from their homeland. But I rose up and pondered
in my blameless heart, whether to jump from the sea and perish and perish in the sea, or the calmly
to endure and still remain among the living. I endured and stayed there. I covered myself on
the ship, lay down, but the ships were driven from an evil blast of the wind. Again, to Eolian
island and my comrades groaned. Pick it up there, would you, David? Odysseus told Eolus what had
happened and requested his help. The Lord of Winds refused. Odysseus must be a cursed of Olympus.
It will take him nine more years to get home. His comrades died on the way because of their folly and
drinachia. Let's go to the next page and you'll see an image and under the image you're going to
find two comparative text boxes. Can you scroll down a little further? Okay, I'm going to read the
left-hand column and you're going to read the right-hand column. Okay? Sounds good.
Odysseus told Elkinois on a floating island tales of the Trojan War.
Jesus taught the crowds while floating on a boat. For nine days, night and day alike.
On that day, when it was late, he says to them,
let's pass over to the other side and left the crowd and took him. He already was in the boat.
Odysseus had 13 ships. Actually, he had 12. We sailed and already on the 10th, our homeland appeared,
then sweet sleep came over me. Other boats were with him. Odysseus' crew untied the bag and all
the winds rushed out. The gale immediately snatched them and drove them out to sea.
And the great gale of wind came up and the waves beat on the boat so they were already filling.
So it was already, oh, sorry, so that it already was filling.
Continue, yep. He himself was in a stern asleep on a pillow. By our own folly, we were perishing.
They woke him and said to him, teacher, do you not care that we are perishing?
But I rose up and pondered in my blameless heart whether to jump from the ship and perish in the sea
or calmly to endure and remain still among the living.
He rose up, rebuked the wind and said to the sea, silence, be still. The wind died down and there
was a great calm. Odysseus could not calm the winds, but Eulus could. He said to them,
why are you such cowards? Do you still have no faith? They were greatly afraid and were
saying to each other, what kind of person is this that even the winds and the sea obey him?
This rhetorical question, the mark expects the reader to answer that Jesus is the Son of God
with powers over winds like those of Eulus. And before we leave the parallels, you'll see in
square brackets, occasionally, the same words that appear in the two texts, the word for wind,
the word for perishing, the word for rising up. So they're not extensive, but they're telltale.
So I've got a question. I know that one of the criticisms
kind of launched at you and this work is that Homeric Greek is very different from
Koine Greek. Is that an example there of like, well, it's different, but these words are the same?
Well, both of those judgments are correct. Homeric Greek is very different from
Koine Greek, but they all are Greek. And so some of the words in Homer, many of them are archaic,
and you're not going to find them in the New Testament, or in Josephus, or in the Septuagint,
or whatever. They really are archaic, but some of them are going to be the same.
And I often use a text that is really not known widely, even in classical circles called Apollonius
Sophista. It's a first century common era. This is the same generation as the Gospel authors,
who created a lexicon of Homeric Greek and its Koine equivalents. So you can look up a Homeric
word either in Koine or in the Homeric side and find out what the equivalents were. And this was
useful for schoolboys who were trying to read Homer and didn't know Homeric Greek because it
wasn't spoken for them. So it's a dictionary inside of the Greek culture to help schoolboys
understand how to read Homeric Greek. And I use it quite a bit to say, okay, even though this word
is not the same, it would have been recognized as the same by schoolboys if they'd been exposed to
Apollonius. Okay, interesting. So guys, we could go much further into that, but I'll save it for,
if you guys are interested in, there is a lot more. How many lectures are there? There are 18
lectures. 18 lecture courses. Guys, yeah, MVP courses. If you want to get a taste of this,
day 995 at the moment, I signed up and it's awesome. I'm loving it. Go check it out. The
link's in the description. And you get a better understanding of what we were just going over
there and go more into detail. Dennis, I was wondering if we could go over a few questions.
Sure, please. Okay, so we have some super chats and thank you, everyone, who did super chat.
I really appreciate it. And just another thing, too, is I want to say thanks to all the people
who do support this channel through super chats, Patreon joining the channel. It means the world
to me. The more people we can get on board, the bigger this community can grow, the more amazing
guests we can get, and the more I can focus on this work full-time. But one thing is, for the
Patreon members, we are having a super secret video coming out, a long-form video with Dr.
Kip Davis. And out of that, I'll be making a video for the rest of the audience. So if you want to
sign up to Patreon, now is a good time. So first question that I have is from Heng-fa-shi. Have
you investigated any examples of mimesis between the Odyssey and the New Testament texts through
the lens of pharmacology, as it was seen that the Odysseus pharmaceuticals laced the story?
New Testament, too? Oh, that's a very insightful and intelligent question. We do have
relationships of discussions of drugs, and they're called pharmacok in Homer.
So, for example, in the Iliad, Helen has a potion that she gives to people to keep them from being
too sad. Circe uses her pharmacone in order to make Odysseus's men into swine. And we also know
that wine in antiquity often was mixed with honey, or with, as you have in the New Testament,
myrrh, or with other things that would increase the psychosomatic impulses of the wine.
And, of course, the Greeks drank their wine diluted with water. So that even decreased the
amount of alcohol in the drink. So in many cases, there were drugs that were added to the drinks,
presumably, to give them that effect. We know that the El Eucinian mysteries had a form of beer,
and that apparently was quite addictive. So that's a very interesting question. And, of course,
lots of different religions have pharmacological
commitments to alter cognitive states. Wine among Jews, for example, peyote
in American religion. And so you put you have it also in Greek stories. And so that's a
very interesting question. I'm not an authority on it. I probably have said more than I know.
I have heard some conspiracy theories about the burning bush being a sort of psychoactive bush
that, you know, when Moses stepped in front of it, he inhaled some of the smoke and he heard
the voices and stuff. But, of course, that's all conjecture. But it's an interesting good plot of
a book or something. Great. Rainbow Krampus said, as an artist, I find Dennis's thesis
inarguable. Do you think more scholars would be on board with it if they had a stronger
background in artistic slash creative endeavors? Absolutely, Rainbow. I think that religion has
been starved for aesthetics in place of history and philosophy. And I think religion is one of
the most important of human crafts. And if we could understand the creation of mythologies
and literature as a part of being human in the world to make sense of its chaos and its hurt,
we'd be much better off. So, Rainbow, I can sense you're an artist even with that name.
So, you're artistic and creative. But I really think we need to have a new appreciation of
aesthetics generally of art and music. I'm a five-string banjo player. So, I love Irish
music and bluegrass and so on. And that's where I get a lot of my grounding in being in the world.
Oh, awesome. That's so good. Gettysburg Demoniak said, what do you have to help me here?
Yes, disabilities show about ancient Greek ideas about the cause and societal impact
of disability in antiquity. Well, Gettysburg, that's another very good question.
Thereseus and Hephaestus both suffered disabilities as punishments. This is also the case with
phylloctetes. And you find in the New Testament an identification of illness with sin.
So, for example, in the Gospel of Mark where there's a paralytic, Jesus first forgives his sins
and then he is, though that's the cause of the illness, and then heals him. You have this clearly
in the phylloctetes story by Sophocles where phylloctetes had accidentally encroached upon
the sacred precincts of a goddess Necresis. And for that, he was given an incurable wound
in his side. I think one of the terrible things about ancient views of disabilities
is that the people with disabilities are blamed for them. Now, Hephaestus isn't. He
was abused by his father, Zeus, who threw him down and hurt him. But in many cases, people with
disabilities are considered to have been punished by the deities for some wrongdoing.
One of the things that's fascinating about Thereseus and Hephaestus is Hephaestus was a cripple,
but he was also the best of all blacksmiths and metalworkers. So, he was able to compensate
for his disability by being so good. Thereseus was blind, but he was the one who could see better
than all sighted people, because he was the blind seer. He had prophetic skills. In the
Gospel of Mark, blind Bartimaeus is the only one who recognizes that Jesus is the Son of God
and wants to travel with him on the way. So, there is an attitude also in some texts.
Oh, and by the way, Philoctetes is healed, and it's because of his bow and the bow of Heracles
and his arrows that Troy was able to fall. So, there is with disability some compensation
and that the gods in some cases hurt people, as in the case of Thereseus, but in other cases,
they also benefit them, which is also the case of Thereseus. By the way, Thereseus was bisexual.
He lived first of his part of his life as a man, then he turned into a woman and had children,
and then he turned back into a man, and he is actually depicted in drag in Greek art and on
the stage. So, here you have a trans Greek who is a great seer, and there are two characters
in the New Testament that are modeled after Thereseus. So, disability is not always tragic.
So, that's where it all got fashionable, eh? That's what the conservative is saying. It's
fashionable to be trans. It started back in ancient Greece. Well, I haven't heard that,
but maybe you're right. No, I just can't. We have big allies here, but it's just,
it just can't believe some of the stuff the conservatives say. So, another super chat.
Hengphashi again. I hope I'm pronouncing your name right. It seems highly problematic to me that we
will ever see equal rights and justice while we still support religions in which atrocities
such as slavery are so entrenched. New Testament included your thoughts.
I wish I had said that myself. Of course. And unfortunately, religion can be a source of
humanization, and it can also be a source of dehumanization. And we have to replace
bad myths with good ones or find another way to avoid myth and deal with the science
of these atrocities. And I have a friend, a very good friend, who is a Palestinian,
and he was a Christian Palestinian pastor, and he had to give up religion in order to make sense
of the atrocities that are going on for Palestinians right now. And actually,
we get together for breakfast once a month and kind of cry into our coffee because of all that's
going on. Yeah, there's a lot of, there's a lot of, a lot of hate in the world for sure.
I have a question for you. That's the last of our super chats, but can you talk a little bit
about the naked fugitive in Mark? And are there any similarities with El Pino?
This is a marvelous story. And of course, even in antiquity, people didn't know what to do with
this naked young man who was fleeing at Jesus' arrest. And Morton Smith was pretty sure that he
had an answer to that. And I would have to say that that's bunk. But that'll take us too far afield.
There is a, there is a character in the Odyssey who has two imitations and virgins in need.
And this man is El Pino, and his name means would like to be manly. And it's because he really isn't
manly. He survived the Trojan War, but his claim to fame is really to be an oarsman that is a grunt
on a ship. And he's one of Odysseus' men. He gets drunk at Circe's palace and sleeps on the roof
in order to kind of get rid of the buzz of the La Frague. And when he wakes up,
he forgets that he's on the roof and he falls and breaks his neck. And his psyche, his soul,
goes off to Hades. Odysseus doesn't recognize that this young man has died, and he goes off to
Hades. And the first soul that he meets in Hades is this El Peinor. And in art, El Peinor is depicted
as nude in order to express that he's abandoned his body. And Odysseus says, how did you get
him so quickly El Peinor? He said, oh, I've got to tell you the story. So he tells me the story.
And it's the story of unfortunate Deustonis El Peinor, the unfortunate El Peinor.
And he says, look, you've got to go back to Circe's island and bury my body. Otherwise,
I'll never get entry into the land of the dead. Hades, I'll always be on the outside.
So Odysseus agrees, and he goes back at dawn, and he buries the body among great sorrow,
and puts his rowing oar on top of his burrow, his funeral mound, as a trophy.
And so he's an anti-hero, David. Jesus is arrested at Gethsemane.
The disciples all flee. There's a young man who flees naked. Jesus is buried with his clothes off.
When he's given a shroud, it's called a syndome. And that's the same word that is used for the
garment that this man ran off with. He was wearing a syndome. He was wearing a shroud when he left.
And at the tomb, it's not Jesus who's there, but it's this young man. It's a neonicos.
It's the same word that is used as the young man at the trial, at the Gethsemane. But now he's not
nude. He's parablebamanas. The same word that's used in the early section, that he was wearing
a syndome. Now he's wearing a white robe, and he witnesses to the resurrection at dawn. El
Panor was buried at dawn, so that the sorrow of the burial of El Panor in the Odyssey is replaced
with joy at the raising of Jesus at the tomb. And Virgil has imitations of it in Palindris and
Messianus in book six of the Aeneid. It's really spectacular. So that's who it is. It's a, again,
this is not a historical character at all. It's not the Gospel of Mark as some people have thought.
And Matthew and Luke didn't know what to do with it. They omitted it all together.
So it's not in John? No, it's not in John either, you know.
Because I must have, I've read the New Testament, but there's a long time ago since I've read it
cover to cover, and I never, I just pulled up in the scripture. I swear I've never, I would have
picked this up. I must have glazed over it, but then everyone deserted him and fled. So this is
Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. A young man wearing nothing but a linen garment was following
Jesus. When they seized him, he fled naked, leaving his garment behind. That's it. That's,
but it's okay. It's so weird. It's okay. Now, okay. David, now turn to Mark 16 versus five and six.
Mark 16 versus five. As they entered the tomb, they saw a young man dressed in white robes
sitting on the right side and they were alarmed. Don't be alarmed. He said,
you were looking, you're looking for Jesus, the Nazarene who was crucified. He has risen.
He is not here. It says young man. It's the same word in Greek, David, and the same word
that's used for his being, he's wearing something. And before he wore a cindal. He wore a shroud.
Now he's wearing a white robe of glorification. It's the same character.
Whoa. That just, whoa, then they gave me goosebumps. That's incredible. Isn't it amazing?
That's amazing. This is what I love about your work is it makes religion more interesting. Even
if you're a Christian, you should be able to look at this and go, that's incredible. It makes so much
more sense than literally just a random point that there was a naked guy that ran off. David,
I have a question for you. Would you rather be proud of religion where the stories of Jesus
are written by creative intellectuals or would you rather have gospels written by dumb fisherman?
Creative intellectuals. No, no, no. That's a very serious question. Yeah.
Modern Christians have taken some pleasure into downsizing the intelligence of gospel authors
as though they're simply recording these things rather passively. And they're not,
they're creating literature. And we have to understand the beauty of what they're trying to
accomplish. Wow. Wow. That's so, you know, have you looked much into the Old Testament with the
primeval histories and the Epic of Gilgamesh? Well, not for a long time. But I think Derek and
his guests are doing a very good job with that right now. It's phenomenal as well because,
you know, you have this story of the primeval history, Abraham and the Tower of Babel and all
this. And it's kind of like, it's like, okay, it's like a story, this happens and this happens
and this happens. It's not that interesting. God floods the earth, etc., etc. But when you look
at it as a rebuttal, like a pushback against Mesopotamian society. Yes, yes, yes. All of a
sudden it becomes so interesting. Yes, yes, yes. This is not intellectual theft. It is intellectual
engagement. That is a huge difference. It's not mindless theft. It's not that they're looking
for a good story type. The story type is out there. They're trying to improve on it.
Wow. Do you know what? Well, let's let's touch on it briefly. Have you got a couple more minutes
so we can spend? Okay. I do know that you're right. I had this whole section I wanted to
talk to you about. Maybe we can do another episode another time. But I wanted to, before we get
started, you mentioned that you were going to talk about, you're going to be writing a book on Q, Q
Source, right? Yes. And so for people who don't know, what is Q and what is the Q Source? How
do we know that Q exists? And what do you think of the critics of Q? I know that a lot of
mythicists will say that Q is hypothetical. It's silly to, like you have to take it on faith.
Can you explain to the audience what is Q? I am one of the biggest critics of Q.
Okay. Cool. Cool. Okay. Because, and I don't call it Q anymore. I call it the Logoi of Jesus,
that is the sayings of Jesus, which is likely its original title. And I don't want to defend that for
you right now. Okay. The advantage of the International Q Project, that actually has as its center
worldwide, the Claremont Graduate University, where I had an appointment for 19 years,
made two huge mistakes in their research. And it continues to cause skepticism about Q
that is unnatural and unnecessary. And I spent much of my career trying to correct
misunderstandings of the Q document. The Q, the word Q does not come from Q and on,
does not come from Q and on, comes from the, comes from the German word Kavella, meaning Source.
But it's a very unfortunate title. And even more unfortunate are the methodological commitments
of the scholars. They thought Mark did not know the Q document. And therefore, to recover Q,
you had to eliminate from Matthew and Luke, who had written, who were writing later,
every vestige of Mark. So what you have in the end is a document that is intentionally purged
of all Mark and influence. If I'm right, Mark is not only one, not only did Mark know Q,
he was the most radical revisionist of it. And in order to solve the Q problem, by the way,
we know that there were lost gospels. Luke talks about many people who had written for
these texts about Jesus. Papius knows of a lost gospel of Matthew, which is probably the Q document.
We have a lost commentary that called itself expositions of the Lord's logia, or logoi,
the words. I mean, it's the same thing. So we know that there was a lost gospel. And we know
that Matthew and Luke have content that they didn't receive from each other and they didn't get
from Mark. So there was a lost gospel. That, that part, we shouldn't even be debating that, David.
There was a lost gospel. The question is, can we recover it? And if so, how, what kind of criteria
do we use? And so I spent literally four decades trying to solve that problem. And the book that
I'm writing now is called, must the synoptics remain a problem? And my answer is no, they should no
longer be a problem, because there are two keys to understanding Mark's use of Q. One is his commitment
to imitating Homer. So once you see that in Mark, you can erase a lot of the mythological patina
and recover content that's there. And it comes out of a pre-war situation. It comes out of Galilee.
It comes out of Jesus, the Jew, who is simply trying to rewrite Jewish law. In my view, the
Jesus of the Q document is Cesar Chavez. He is a social revolutionary who is speaking for the
margins. So the Q document, as Jesus said, I didn't come to call righteous but sinners. The long the
prophets are until John. After that, it's compassion. It's the kingdom of God and its ethics and so on.
But the other key to solving a synoptic problem is to finally reconstruct Q with better methodology,
to take Mark seriously as a witness to it. And so my Q is often understood to be
a traditional Q but longer. It is not a traditional Q. It is built actually on the assumption that
Luke knows Matthew, of course Luke knows Matthew, and that Mark knows Qs well and he doesn't like it.
And he's going to make Jesus into a Greek hero instead of the Jewish hero who is fighting against
Pharisees. And unless one can come to grips with that and do the philology that is necessary
in Greek in an extensive comparison of the text with criteria, we'll never solve the synoptic
problem. David, it is one of the most important and long-standing intellectual problems in the
history of religion. And I want to put a stop to it. We don't need to be so skeptical that now I'm
not suggesting that my reconstruction is flawless. I know that it can't be, but I think it's a huge
step forward. So even though my methodology is called the Q plus papious hypothesis, because I
take papious very seriously as the earliest witness to early Gospels, it is not Q. It has
some resemblance to it, but it is not Q. It's a coherent document that imitates the book of
Deuteronomy to portray Jesus as a compassionate promised prophet like Moses. So I'm a little
lost. Q, as far as I'm aware, Q was the hypothetical source that Mark used.
Because there are so many similarities between Matthew, Mark and Luke,
they say there must have been this other source that they were all using, writing from. Is that
the traditional view of? No, it isn't quite. So let me kind of step back. Yeah.
Over a century ago, scholars recognized that there are parallels between Matthew and Luke,
where you don't have Mark, so that they're imitating, they're rewriting Mark,
but they have other material. In some cases, Luke is earlier than Matthew, whether he knew it or not,
and in many cases, Matthew was more primitive than Luke. So if they didn't get it from Mark,
where did they get it? So then the question is, do they get it from moral tradition? Do they get it
from memory? Or do they get it from a lost book or books? And so then philologians like myself
go to work in comparing these stories and deciding what it might look like and how then
to factor in the Gospel of Mark. Now, there are three options for that. By the way, there are also
three options for the first one. The first, with Luke's use of Matthew,
some would say Luke knows Matthew. That's the Farrer hypothesis. That's Mark Goodacre and company.
Others would say that Luke did not know Matthew, and therefore you can pit the two
over against each other and prefer the alternating primitivity of them. I think that Luke did know
Matthew, but he also knew Q, and you have to have a different set of criteria in order to determine
that. Now, the next problem is, did Mark know that same book? So the Farrer hypothesis, people say,
well, there wasn't a known book for him to know, right? Because they deny Q. The Q plus papias,
the two document hypothesis people say, no, he didn't know Q, and therefore we have to get rid
of all the Mark and influence on Matthew and Luke. That's bullshit. And the people hold to that are
my friends, by the way, because I'm from Claremont. I know these people. But there's a spin-off group
called the modified two-document hypothesis that says, no, Mark knew Q, but they sell them use Q
really to reconstruct Q. But if you see that Mark is imitating Homer, you get a totally different,
almost a totally different picture about what the Q document was. Of course, Mark knew Q. And the
reason for it is, you have passage after passage after passage. You have actually two dozen examples
at least of places where Mark is imitating Homer, and he throws in a quotation or a rewriting of the
Q document. Da, he's creating what I call a mimetic hybrid. And we know that people were taught how
to create hybrids in schools. It's a way of avoiding plagiarism, because you're not imitating just one
document, you're imitating several. So I'm so excited about this book. The problem is, you can be
right about scholarship, and you can starve. And I've never been, I've never had institutions,
honestly, I've never had institutions that were excited about my work, because the church isn't
excited about it, the academy isn't, because, you know, they've already got there in transpositions.
I had to create my own press, David, to publish synopses of epic tragedy in the Gospels, because
no other publisher would take it. And that's going to be true of this document too. So this is why
I'm so proud of Derek Lambert and the rest of you associates, because you give me a voice
that I don't have otherwise. But as you know, in your business, it's hard to monetize information.
If it could be the greatest information, but unless it catches on, and you have, you know,
models for monetizing it, you could all starve. You could just, if you just started saying Q was,
had had something to do with Q and on, you'd get a huge audience. It'll be not job, but you can get
a huge audience. Well, that's actually another reason why people should sign up for the course.
And this is the last plug. But guys, I really recommend this one. This is just, it's just so good.
And it's just, it's filmed epically. It's got lots of animations, lots of audio. Derek has obviously
put in a lot of work, you put in a lot of work, like, he's just so much, so much, so much, so
much stuff here. And it's just, it links in the description. I'll even drop it in the chat right
now. If anyone is interested to check it out, definitely go do that. Dennis has been absolutely
awesome having you on. I've got a cup, two quick questions that I ask most guests when they come
on. And then we'll end out the show. But so the first question I have for you is regarding your
life's work. So I normally ask this about someone's belief in God, but I'll ask this about your life's
work. What, if anything, would change your mind regarding the Greek, Greek mixing with the
mimosa, sorry, that whiskey's gotten to me? If someone could show me
parallels in literature that are more compelling than what I'm arguing for, I'd be happy to back
off because I'm concerned about the success of these texts, not of my career. I've been retired
now for almost a decade. So if someone could show me more compelling texts or arguments to
explain the materials, what happens though, is people don't bother to actually look at the
parallels in the texts and provide alternatives. And I consider that a cop out.
You know, this has really kicked myself up the butt to start learning some of this Greek stuff,
Greek myths and stuff. I knew nothing about it. I started on Stephen Fry's book Mythos
to get me up to speed with even just the basics. And then I want to move on to reading the Iliad
and the Odyssey. And then I'm going to go back to your work. You've changed the trajectory of my
hobby, academic learning. So I thank you for that. That's great. And so you're currently
not a believer in God, Ryan? Were you not convinced? What I liked to talk about myself
is a humanist theoskeptic. Okay. What does it mean? It means that I'm not convinced
about the necessity of talking about God to explain reality. I really am a big fan of science
and humanities. So but that doesn't mean that I don't believe in anything. That's what agnostic
is about. That's what atheism is about. I prefer to understand myself in the Socratic tradition
as a skeptic and as a critic. And so I'm not in, by the way, I'm not interested in having
anybody change their religion. I'm interested in having them change their ignorance.
There are stupid Christians, but there are a lot of brilliant ones. And I'm trying to make them
more brilliant. There's a lot of, you know, someone messaged the other day and said,
I thought this was an atheist podcast. And I said, no, this is a podcast about
deep conversations over deep drinks. This is not, I'm not trying to evangelize my belief systems.
If someone came to me with some good reasons to believe in a God, I would start believing in
that God. Like, you know, I'm not, I have conversations with Hare Christians, with
Christians, with atheists, with Satanists, with everybody between. So it's what I love,
deep conversation. So the last question I have for you, and this is a bit of a wild one,
this is in the realm of, this is just, this is outside of the box. This is, this is the kind
of thing you, if you, you said you were a bit of a hippie, but you weren't a drugs and free sex
kind of hippie. But just imagine that you're a random campfire smoking weed or something.
This is the kind of question that you would, that I would ask. So you know a lot about religions.
Let's say a magic genie popped out and said to you, or somehow you knew that one of the
religions in the world, one of the theistic religions in the world was correct. And its worldview
was like spot on and you know, it's ideas of heaven and hell or reincarnation or anything
were true. What is the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in? If you
had to guess which one that was, what would it be? Well, of course, it's a counterfactual situation,
right? So we're trying to imagine. Yeah. I raised my children in the Christian church.
And I'm so proud that they identify more with Buddhism.
Okay. And to some extent I do too, because certain forms of Buddhism also are theoskeptical.
Mm hmm. Certain forms of Buddhism can embrace scientific inquiry and not be ashamed of it.
Buddhism begins with a profound understanding of human loss and hurt and death and diminishment.
And I think the denial of Christians because of the resurrection and God's going to take care of
everything has done terrible harm. I would rather have people start with religion on the dark side
and look for enlightenment than assume that God's going to take care of everything.
And if it doesn't, it doesn't work out the way we want, we must be sinners and we're on a way to
hell. I'd much rather deal with the dark side right away. And I'm proud that my children
are catching on to the wisdom of certain kinds of philosophical Buddhism. Now, not all Buddhism
is the same. And I'm probably talking about a romantic technoconism or something like that.
But think of all the harm Abrahamic religions have done. Think of the harm that Zionism is
doing in the Middle East. Think of, I mean, it just goes on and on. Why should we trust
the hegemonic religions of the West and not the theoskeptical religions of the East?
And so I guess you would put Jeanne back in the box for that, back in the jar for that.
Do you know, we had a death in the family three years ago now, or two or three years ago.
And it was just as I was finishing the, I think it was the Dhammapada, which is a
Buddhist text, I think it was a Dhammapada. Either way, it was a Buddhist text. And it's,
and I listened to the audio version. And there's a story in there by about Kissa Guttami. And it
really helped me deal with the grief. And the story is so interesting. I'll just quickly share it.
It's Kissa Guttami is a mother, her child dies, her child's like two or two years old or something
dies. And she brings the body around panicking, how can anyone heal my child? Can anyone heal my
child? And someone says, go see, you know, the Buddha, he's just been enlightened, he might
be able to help you. And he bring, she brings the child to the Buddha and the Buddha says,
you know, yes, I can help you. Just go get me so little, all I need is a little mustard seed,
go get me a little mustard seed and I'll help, I'll help you. And then she goes, okay, and just as
she's leaving, the Buddha says, it must come from a house where nobody has died. So she goes, okay,
so she runs to the first house and says, please, please, I need some mustard seed. And they say,
yeah, sure, we'll give you some mustard seed and bring some mustard seed over. And then she goes,
oh, but it must come from a house where no one has died. And the person says, oh, I'm sorry,
my auntie died here, you know, two, two months ago. And okay, so it goes to the next house.
Next house, someone has died. The next house, someone has died. The next house, so eventually
she goes to every house in the village and she realized that every house has experienced death.
And at that moment, she realized what the Buddha was trying to teach her that death was an inevitable
part of life. And that that comes for everyone, no matter what time or age. And so she at that
moment, she could, she could let go of her child and she bring the child to the burial ground.
And she buried her child and she returned to the Buddha and said, and the Buddha said,
you know, where's your child? And she said, I no longer need my child, let me be your disciple.
And that story was profound for me because it's, it was, it, instead of, you know, the
master said it especially was very symbolic, but you look at the story and you think, oh,
you know, the Buddha's gonna, you know, make it all better like you hear in the gospels. That's
what I was used to. But instead, it was a lesson about the realities of life. And it was like
facing the fear head on, facing that darkness head on. It's facing that, you know, it's,
it's accepting the pain and the harm and hurt in life and, and, and, and using that as the first
step to kind of let go. And that really helped me. That is a profound story. And I'm going to tell
you one that's similar to it. I was working in Israel in a kibbutz to learn Hebrew. I'd already
learned biblical Hebrew, but I wasn't very good at it yet. So I asked if there was someone on the
kibbutz who could teach biblical Hebrew to me and there was his name is Eliyahu. And so I studied
with him for the summer. And at the end, I wanted to thank him. So I brought him some wine and halva
and some flowers and so on. And we had a little party. And I said, Eliyahu, and by the way,
I was an evangelical Christian at the time, trying to learn Hebrew because I wanted to
understand the word of God. And I said, Eliyahu, I know you're an atheist, but you studied the
Bible so much. So why is that? He said, Well, first, I want to tell you why I'm an atheist.
I had 70 cousins before the Jewish war. And I had two of my Hungarian,
he was a Hungarian Jew, and so were his relatives. I had two that survived the war. How can I believe
that there's a God with such violence? But I'll tell you why I study the Bible. One, it's the
literature of my people. More important than that is that it has human wisdom.
And more important than that, and I quote, I'm damn good at it.
And that's my attitude toward the Gospels. They are the literature that I grew up with.
They contain far more wisdom than most people grant them.
And I'm damn good at it. And I want other people to be damn good at it too, just like you.
That's awesome. What a great way to end the show. That's such a great story.
Thank you, Dennis, so much for coming on. I appreciate it. I like your last name,
by the way. I do like your last name. Well, I actually wrote, I was meant to cheese you at
the start by saying, what is it, per mara per terrace, which means by sea and by land, which is
the McDonald's. That's right, it is. And you have the McDonald's gauntlet that's on the insignia.
I got the, I even had this out, the book that I was showing you beforehand. It's the book on
Clan Donald. We are the largest clan of Highland Scots people. You should look us up. We fought
off the Vikings or some of that did in the West West Coast of Scotland anyway.
Okay, here's another one. Here's another one. Okay, yeah, let's do it. A Brit and a Scott
were in the Borderlands and the Brit was drinking a gin and lemon. And the Scott was drinking a
La Frog, a Scotch. And they both had too much. And the Englishman said, born an Englishman,
live an Englishman, die an Englishman. And the Scott said, man, have you no ambition?
That's so good. Well, I got a quick story. We went on, we went to Scotland in Edinburgh. We went
on this tour of the Isle of Skye and turns out we were one of six people. My wife and I were two
of six people. Two people didn't speak English. The other two were very rude. So the tour guide
just brought us around to McDonald's site the whole time. He just, he canceled the plans and he
said, oh, we'll go to the battlefield of Culloden. We'll go to the castle of Culloden. And we had
a personalized tour for three days. But one of the first things he did is he got on and he had
his kills on him. We're in Edinburgh and he pulls up this map and he says, this is my
utopia. I can't do an accent very well. Vision of Scotland. And you want to know why that is.
And they say, everyone goes, yeah. And he goes, because there's no fucking England.
He goes, the first thing is you signed a paper saying you're not easily offended. Well, we're
Scots and we fucking swear. It gets to the car. We're like, holy crap, this is awesome.
So yeah, it was a really wild tour. This is awesome. I'm going to play an outro. You can stick
around and we can talk in the back room. But thank you so much for coming on. And thank everyone
for coming out. Check out the course, guys. Check out the patron. Check out Dennis's book. And of
course, I'll see you guys in the next episode. Bye. Bye bye.
Bye.
