Welcome everyone to deep drinks podcast. It may look very similar where I am right now,
but it's actually quite different. I actually flip my office around and so you can see here
the bookshelf is actually a little longer because we added, you know, get this section,
we added this middle section. Oh yeah, baby. So I'm doing some renovations here. Hopefully
this looks okay. Still halfway through it. It's going to look better. But today we have
an amazing, awesome and funny guest. Cindy Davis, junior, junior is a gifted storyteller
and accomplished standup comedian who at just 16 ventured to Chicago to follow her comedic
dreams. Today, her comedy special Trash is can be streamed on Amazon Prime. In addition
to captivating audiences with her performances, Sydney imparts her wisdom and expertise as
a faculty member of both the second city training center and the third coast comedy
club. There she offers classes in standup comedy storytelling and public speaking. Beyond
the stage and classroom, Sydney wears the hat and host of producer and podcaster of
the growing up fundy podcast where she interviews people about their experiences growing up
in a fundamental as fundamentalists among many other things. I recently appeared on growing
up fundy to share my journey. So it is great honor that I would like to introduce my new
friend and hilarious person, Sydney Davis, junior, junior. Let's do this.
Hey, hey, hey. Hey, what's going on? Thank you so much for coming on a deep drink. So
I really appreciate it. This is going to be a fun, it's going to be a hilarious episode.
Yeah, I'm excited. Thanks for having me. I've been looking forward to it. This morning when
I was like, see you in 12 hours or whatever. I was actually asleep when I sent that. I
think I had a dream that I missed this and I sent you that message. I don't remember sending
that to you. I was asleep. I meant to tell you that. I forgot to tell you that. Yeah, so.
Oh, wow. That's so funny. So as I mentioned at the start, I've got this new camera angle and I
want people to kind of tell me what you think. Do you think I should do the podcast like this or
this new little thinking about I could do the rest of the podcast like this?
That for sure. What do you think? Hey, D, hey, Johnty, fragmented crystal.
This is kind of like this angle. It kind of brings some seriousness to the
conversation. No, I'm just kidding. That's the perfect angle for me to say something and you
to just look at the camera. I have a third camera like, what? Yeah. So first of all,
as, so first of all, what are we drinking today? Because I'm so excited. I'm so, so, so excited.
So we are drinking Bunhaben, which is the best Scotch whiskey right there. 12 year,
get the 12 year. The 15 is good. The 12 year is what I was first introduced to. Absolutely,
so delicious. You can get it online. You can get it. If you're in the United States,
it's a lot of major liquor stores carry it. You can't go wrong with it. It's delicious.
It was given to somebody I knew as a gift once and I tried it at their house and I just,
I've been obsessed with it ever since. I've been drinking it for like five or six years.
I pre portioned mine out so that I stay sane and sober, but not sober. Just saying.
So I've got a couple little portions out here, but yeah, it's delicious. I like it neat.
I guess you like it with ice, which is fine. You're a baby.
I've got my glass to go neat. I just, I think what, I don't know why I like it with ice,
but I've got both. I'm going to do both today. I walked out there and I got the ice and my
roommate said, drinking at 10 a.m. Dave. So you know it's high quality stuff. It's high
quality. So at least you're drinking high quality. I had a friend who, when she went to college,
her dad was like, if you're going to binge drink, at least binge drink high quality. Here's the
brands you're allowed to binge. And it was like, my dad was, my dad has had previous problems with
alcohol and he mentioned, we got drunk on vodka one night when I was a teenager and I met a buddy
and he said, he comes in and he goes, hey, Rummy's when he found out cause their parents called my
parents. And he goes, you guys don't, you guys drink beer. He goes, you know, it's not dangerous
to drink beer. Like if you're going to binge, just binge on something that's not straight,
40% spirits. Right. Although have you had moonshine? It's delicious. I have had moonshine,
but actually whiskey, whiskey kind of starts as moonshine. It gets all its flavor and its
color from the wood barrels that it's, and the location on earth that it's, that it's
grown in. But something, something I want to, something I want to kind of mention is
this is from one of my favorite islands. And I was so excited when you mentioned it. As you
can see, I'm not sure if you can see, but sadly, half of this is perished. I'd never tried it before
and I ordered it and it came way too early. And I was like, I'm not going to be able to sit this
on the shelf for the next month. That's literally why I have to like portion it out in the little
cups because I just will drink the whole, it's so good. And I had a little sip and I was like,
this is delicious. And I just kept drinking it. And you know, it's, it's, it survived longer than
I thought. Like I thought I'm like, I hope I don't have to buy another bottle. But it's, it's,
it's, it's fantastic. But it's from Islay. And Islay is an amazing little island in Scotland.
And I just want to quickly tell you a little bit about Islay, which I just find amazing. So
on Islay, they don't have, typically an Islay whiskey, an Islay Scotch is,
has a smoky flavour. This doesn't have like too much of a smoky flavour.
Yeah, it's not like a PD flavour. Yeah, it's definitely like no Pete anywhere.
Yeah, but we're, so depending on like, if you took a barrel from like the same barrel and stuck
it on Islay versus stuck it in Kentucky or stuck it in the Highlands of Scotland, it would actually
change the flavour of the whiskey because of the, how the wood kind of sets in different seasons and
like the temperature and stuff. But one of the things that's really interesting is Islay has no
trees. So it has very little trees. I did not expect that to be what you said.
Yeah. So what they, what they started doing is they started digging down like five or
5,000 years of Pete. So these like, you know, moss, Pete is like moss, right? Like I don't,
maybe I'm wrong here, but it's like moss and it kind of grows up and like layers itself every year.
And they dig these, your parents got nuts, dig these wild, these big slabs of Pete
and they stick it out and they dry it and then they use that to smoke the whiskey and that's where
you get that peachy smell. But what's interesting about all of this and why it's relevant, so
why am I even telling you is one, I think it's cool, but two, it's older than the flood.
Yeah, yeah. That's where they find all those bog bodies is down in that Pete.
Yeah, exactly. So it's like, you know, the old, you know, it's older than the flood or it's older
than like, you're digging up, like for the flood to have happened, it kind of like, it spits in
the face of this delicious whiskey. So it didn't happen because. So if you're an atheist, drink
but have it. Oh, so good. It's very delicious. Man, that's good. I'm gonna mix, I'm gonna mix
it eventually with the ice, but I'm just, I'm starting fresh with the. And I will say, I will
I've always been a neat person. Somebody told me that if you add a couple of drops of water,
it like opens up the flavor. I didn't believe them. I thought they were just trying to
like add one. It does. It tastes a lot different when you add a couple drops of water. So that
is an option. Yeah. That actually, it depends to one like the type of whiskey because different
whiskies that will mute it and different whiskeys that are like, it'll like create a chemical reaction.
Like I could do a whole stream on whiskey. Like I'm, I love whiskey. I'm a bit of a
an aficionado. Like I don't, my facts are kind of muddy, but they're there.
It's wild. So first of all, you're a stand-up comedian. Yeah. Yep. I've been doing stand-up
for 16 years this year. Damn. That's so cool. Let me just quickly share some of the stuff you've
got going on. And then I'm going to ask you a very serious question. Yeah. First of all,
peeps, go check out your YouTube channel. It's linked in the description. I was on it
a few days ago. It was really fun. We had a wild time. That was really good. And you got,
you do like a lot, you do very similar podcasts to what we do here into being people about the
journeys and stuff. You also have a special called Trash on Amazon Prime. People can buy it
just 15 minutes long, but it's, I haven't actually checked it out yet. I've got to
check it out, but it's honestly, honestly, the, the cost is like going up Amazon like
raises costs. The best clips are on my YouTube channel. If you want to see the highlights,
they're on my YouTube channel. They're like the first video when you go to my YouTube channel.
I think I saw the home. Yeah. Unlike the, they're, they should be those first two clips on the
stand-up playlist right there. If you scroll down the fourth playlist down, those first two are
from the special. And honestly, like those are the two of my favorite sets. So if you do those ones.
Yeah. This, this one, this, this one, I, um, so Secly Rarity reached out and said,
I've got this comedian friend. She's hilarious. She does, you know, she does a podcast called
Growing Up Fundy. Would you interview her? And I said, I'll check out her stuff. And I watched
this clip and I was like, yes. Cause it's so funny. Like it's, yeah, that was in 2019. But yeah,
that's, I love that night. That was such a good night doing stand-up. It's one of my favorite
memories. I like to go back and watch those just to relive that night. It was so great.
It was at a theater in Chicago, pre-pandemic. It was awesome.
So you're, and your mom was in the audience, right? She was. She was. My mom was there. My
brother was there. My sister-in-law was there. Yeah. So your mom goes, you're like, oh, I, um,
you're like, um, my mom asked me not to talk about drugs tonight. You're like, so we're going to
talk about drugs. True story. Yeah, true story. Yeah. Yeah. She, um, because I had told one joke
about weed like five years ago. And so she was visiting Chicago and she was like, whatever you
do, like, please don't talk about drugs, even though I hadn't done it in like five years. So
immediately I knew I had to talk about drugs that night when we were filming it. I was like,
done. I'm talking about drugs. That's so good. It's really funny. Um, and you also, um, have
your podcast isn't just on, um, on, uh, YouTube. It goes out to, uh, like podcasting apps. And so
this is a Spotify link and I haven't even checked out my episode yet. So I just realized, sweet,
anxiety, leaving faith and controlling your thoughts. Hell yeah. So that's going to be,
it's a, it's a cool episode. It's up there now. So everyone can go listen to that.
Nitty, you, uh, thank you for a super chat. Thank you so much. Why now you go if it's paid for?
What is he talking about? The special, the Amazon special. I was like, I'm looking through the,
yeah, cool. All right. Awesome. Thank you, Nitty. I appreciate that. I will, I will buy it.
That's awesome. Nitty's always out just donating money in time. It's awesome. Nitty's dope.
Nitty, yeah. Nitty is a, is a great, great guy. We have a tomorrow morning. I hope Nitty,
you can join. So for my Patreon supporters, I'm doing a, um, for anyone who is a Patreon
supporter or a channel supporter, you can come on and chat with me. I'm doing like a two hour Q&A
and it's going to be streamed on this channel, but anyone who supports me financially will be
able to jump on and like chat and hang out. So, um, that's going to be really fun. So hopefully
I'll see Nitty there, there, um, promote your channel and stuff like that as well. Um, so you're
a comedian. So this is the quest, this is the question, um, I want to ask. So you're a comedian.
So say something funny. Pay me money. Actually, what's funny? Make me laugh. Have you seen that,
that South Park clip where it's like, um, girls are funny and get over it. And then it's like,
Wendy, come up here and say something funny. It's like, say something funny, Wendy. Um, yeah,
it's like that. Do something funny. Yeah, people ask it. They're like, tell me a joke. And I'm like,
pay me money. And they're like, I don't have any. And I'm like, well, I don't have any, I guess.
Yeah. What do you, um, so we will get into your journey, um, a little bit of course,
but do you think that comedy has like shaped the way you think about the world?
A hundred percent, 100%. Um, so I started stand up. I won't launch into the whole thing
right now, but I started stand up so young. I started stand up when I was in 11th grade.
And that was like, it was around like 2008, 2009. And that was back when there was like a certain
brand of humor that was acceptable and that, you know, that people were saying, you know, and
it's not a brand of humor that I would do now. It's not, uh, it's not something that I like. I
like to go back and like delete old tweets and stuff because my humor has changed. If they get
annoying, let me know. I'll kick them out. Um, but I, it's definitely taught me a lot in terms of
how far I'm willing to go for a laugh and what's truly funny and what's not. So, you know,
when I went through my edgy teenager phase, like everybody did, I also had a microphone and I had
like a YouTube channel and I had Twitter. So not only did I go through that like edgy teen phase,
but then I was up on stage, like trying to make jokes out of these ideas that I thought were such
like poignant, you know, one of a kind, can't tell me nothing ideas. And, um, I think over the years,
as I've developed my style and my content, that's really also developed my personality type and my,
just who I am as a person. So yeah, absolutely. I think a lot of times what a person finds funny
tells you everything you need to know about that person. And also not only that, not only has it
shaped like what I actually find funny and what I think comedy is, but it's also helped me a lot in
terms of taking constructive feedback, taking criticism, you know, being a woman on the internet
and it's like, it's never like an easy thing to do. But especially when you're like 17, 18, 19,
and then on top of that, you're putting creative work out there that you're proud of. And you have
to decide, are the mean comments like actually mean comments or are they constructive feedback?
Are you going to listen to what they're saying? And so it's been a huge lesson for me in my life, too,
on like separating constructive criticism from just people being mean and the benefits that come
from implementing that constructive feedback as well. So it's really, I said all that to say,
it's impacted my life in a lot of ways that I'm very grateful for, if that makes sense.
No, that does make sense. I look back at some of the stuff I used to like, and I see how,
I guess my left-wing libtards, socialists or whatever, why don't you say libtard? That's
an offensive term in itself. But the point is, I've become more progressive in my worldview,
and I'm noticing a lot of the things I used to laugh at. I don't know if that's okay to laugh.
I don't think that's like, that's coming from a hurtful place rather than coming from a good
place. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Yeah, it's taught me a lot about that, like especially when I use
time hop, and you know time hop, if you use it or if you're unfamiliar with it, it shows you what
you were posting on all social media platforms every day of the year as far back as you were
posting. And so, you know, I've been posting for 15, 16 years, and it's great for just deleting
that stuff. It's great for being like, oof. But the problem is when you're like, when you're 17,
and you're out here and you're doing stand up and you're writing statuses and tweets and stuff,
and you have adults in your life that are like, that's so funny, do that again, that's real humor,
yada, yada, yada. Of course you keep doing it, you know, of course you keep saying certain things,
and I never said anything horrible, like I never used any kind of language that would get me
canceled or anything. But I definitely was, I definitely took that encouragement and took it
too far sometimes. And I've learned a lot of lessons, a lot of really important lessons on how
those, that kind of content can really impact people, or how there is a way to be really funny
that doesn't harm anybody at all in the process. So yeah, yeah, I really think it's, it's changed,
oh, so sorry, it's changed a lot about who I am as a person and, and how I operate in the world
in general over the years. There was this, I'll never release this footage, well I might release
the footage, but I'll never, like it's so horrible, but like, I, me and a friend used to make video
games together, and we made this, this video game when we're like 15, 14, something like that. And it
was, you know, at the time, like the term, like, oh, that's gay, that's gay, that's gay was like a,
it's a payout. Now I say that's gay is like, hell yeah, yeah. But, but, but at the time, you know,
that was just a classic payout. And I didn't have any friends that were gay, I didn't know anyone
that was gay, but it became like the thing. And in this game that we made, which is an RPG style
game, there was just so many things in the game that were just homophobic, like blatantly homophobic.
Not that I think I was homophobic, maybe I was like, but it was just like the language, like the
culture that was brought up with like rap music, you know, say the F-Slow or what it becomes very
normalized. And then it became like trendy to, I guess, hate on people of the LGBT community. That's,
I guess that's one of the reasons why I'm such an ally now, but like, I try to be anyway, but like,
like, I'm trying to think of what I can say that won't like sound horrible, but it's like,
I think there was, there's one part of the game where like,
like if you chose the wrong answer, like there was like different questions, and if you chose
the wrong answer, like you, if you said that you were gay or whatever, it would go like game over,
and like, we don't want gay people playing our game. And it was just like, that we thought that
was hilarious at the start. We were like, oh, that's so funny. Like, if you choose this, it goes to
get, but, but now I look back and I'm like, fuck. And I ended up just screaming recording because
I hadn't played this game in like 15 years or something. I screamed recorded myself playing it,
forgot about all that stuff. And you just see how horrified I am at like the old,
just what was normal, kind of jokes. And just imagine like, and I said, I recorded it and I
sent it to, to, to the guy I made it with, and we both watched it and he watched it and he's like,
dude, he's like that, he's like, we were, he's like, that was so fucked up. Like he's like that.
I know like at the time there wasn't like, we weren't trying to be malicious, but like the
jokes were just fucked. Right. Right. You know, it's just, just that it's not even a, it was more
reflection of the time and the, and the environment that we grew up in rather than us, because that
was just normal. And it's just, yeah. And, and I think the reason we did things like that when we
were younger is because like you said, you're not homophobic. So you don't think there's anything
wrong with you saying like gay or whatever, because you don't, you know, you don't mean it,
whatever. But we, we've learned so much over the last two decades about like how perpetuating that
behavior can add to whatever the issue is or can add to sentiments that, that parrot, not intended,
that same activity. I don't know what their problem is. They were quiet until now.
And so like my thing, my thing back then was I had a blog, this was back when everybody had a
blog. And I used to write like funny open letters to people I would meet every day. So like letter
to my barista, letter to my professor, letter to my mailman, whatever. And they were just kind of
mean. They were just kind of mean, like any inconvenience, any buddy that I like at the time
thought gave me attitude, stuff like that. I would just write kind of like a mean open letter
about them. And people thought it was really funny. They were viewing the blog, it was getting
popular. So that just like fed the idea. And then, you know, when you're a teenager,
then you go like looking for situations and looking for scenarios. And then you try to like
make things that never happened be funny and be like a part of the blog. And, and I just felt like
up until I was about maybe 22 or 23, a lot of my humor was mean spirited. And I never thought of
myself as a mean person. Back then I used to think that I was actually like a really, really good
person. So, but when I go back and I read some of that stuff, what's left, because I've tried to
scrub as much of it off as possible, you're just like, why is it so hard to make something funny
that isn't attacking anyone or isn't making you seem like above them or holier than thou or whatever.
It just, it was very strange because I remember people telling me I was a nice person. I remember
everybody being like, oh, Sydney's so nice. But I really wasn't. I really wasn't very nice
when I really thought about it. And, and so I have like a personal rule now where I don't
roast people at all. It's just not something that I do, because I feel like roasting is what a comic
does when they're not a very good writer and when they can't come up with anything funny to say on
their own. So they attack other people. And when you focus on roasting yourself, you can come up with
so much really funny content. Yeah, I think that's like the biggest way that I've changed is that
if I go to write a status or a tweet or a joke, and I really step back and I'm like, if the person
this is about heard this, would they find this funny? If the answer is no, it goes nowhere. It
stops here. It doesn't become a thing. And I don't, and I feel like as a comic, I've actually gotten a
lot better doing that. I feel like I've, I've really become a better writer, a better performer.
There's nothing that I feel like people can't watch, like there's no videos out there that I
think like certain people would like and other people wouldn't like. I think it just, it's
challenged me a lot in a way that I'm, I'm proud of, I think.
Yeah, there's, it's, it's, it's, it's super, it's super, it's super weird because like there are
some instances where smash the like guys, smash the like button, but it's, it's super weird because
there's an instance. So for me, I've got, I'm like a hard, like I don't use the F-slow. I don't,
I don't use slow as much as possible. Like as much as like I'm cognizant of it.
In any, for sexuality, for anything that people are, I don't even like the term like
white people, right? Because like I feel like you're just putting in, you just, you're just,
you're using, what's the term? Characteristics that people can't change. What are they called?
Like stereotypes and, oh, oh, non-formidable. I know what you're talking about. Yeah, it's like.
Something that somebody can't change. Yeah, yeah, something that something can't change. So like
even, even though like, typically like white people are like, you know, in the place of privilege,
like typically it's still, I don't think it's like, I try not to point the finger at like when I make
jokes or ridicule someone or whatever. I try not to, to do that. So I don't know, can sensually
smash that like button. Thank you. I like, you're a great new member of the chat. Thank you.
You always post really funny stuff. They always post really funny stuff. But one of the things
that I found was, I'm against all that kind of stuff, but I found one instance where I'm still
on the fence about whether or not it was like appropriate to use like a hard F-slur, like the
homosexual, the slur for homosexuality. And that was with Christopher Hitchens and Stephen Frye
when they debated the Catholic, debated two Catholics on whether the Catholicism was a,
like a good force for humanity. And it was just like, it was just a train wreck. It's one of my
favorite debates where like, Stephen Frye and Chris Fissions just absolutely slam the Catholic
church for their like, disgusting like, perspectives, like the way they say like, AIDS is bad, but not
as bad as protection, like in different places, just things like that, like in like, AIDS in
Africa and just stuff like the harm they've done to society. But one of the things that Chris
Fissions does is he says, the F-slur says, I don't want to accidentally say it, but he says the F-slur
and he says, he says, essentially, one of the reasons why people should reject the Catholic
church is because of the hatred you drew towards my friend Stephen. You say, you're a child of God,
made an image of God. No, you're not. You're an F-slur and you don't get to go to heaven and you
don't get to join our church. He's like, and then it was like that, him saying that like, very harsh
word, but in defense of the LGBT community against the people, it kind of bring the seriousness of
that of like, whoa, like because that's a harsh word to say, very harsh, but he's using it to
point out the bigotry of the Catholic church. Exactly. And I think so, I definitely think there
are exceptions to the rule. One, if you're, if you are quoting something like that, like if he
had read something somewhere where they literally said that they used that word to describe somebody,
telling somebody what they are like or what they sound like, I don't think is against the rules,
I don't think that's wrong. And personal rules that I use for myself doesn't necessarily mean
that it should apply to all comedy in general. It's just what works best for me. But yeah,
I think there are instances where people need to know what they sound like, because if it's as
aggressive to you and it's as aggressive to them to hear it, they should have to hear it. So for
example, I roast my family members all the time. I have a lot of family members who have committed
crimes. They're in jail. They've got worked out for their arrest. Right. And one time I had,
like I'd posted a set on YouTube, and I got a message from my cousin, who's the son of one of
the people I did a set about. And he said, Hey, I just saw your set. And I was getting ready to like
start a fight with him. And he said, if people don't want you to talk about it, they shouldn't
do it. He's like, you didn't lie. You didn't make anything up. You didn't exaggerate anything. You
literally just talked about what my mom did. And I think that's fair game. And so I think
there's a big difference between punching down and attacking people who can't defend themselves
versus showing somebody what they're like. Big difference there. And there's also a difference
between things that people can change and things that people can't. So say for example, I went and
I got a big ugly tattoo. If somebody made a joke about that tattoo, that was a decision that I
made at a certain point. And even if I thought it was beautiful, that's a decision that I made
didn't have to be done. Nobody held me down and put a gun to my head and was like, get that tattoo
or else I wasn't born with it. Like if somebody roasts my haircut, that was a decision that I made
at a certain point whether or not it was a good one is up for debate. But there's like decisions
that were made, right? And I think that stuff is fair game. If somebody's a celebrity, fair game,
if somebody's politician, the fact that they're a politician fair game, if somebody has a dumb
haircut or tattoo or style or whatever, fair game, it's when you talk about people and things that
they cannot change about themselves, nor should they want to if they don't want to. That's where
it becomes punching down. It becomes ridicule. It becomes, in my opinion, low brow humor, like
race, religion. Some people would argue that religion is a choice. I don't think it is. I don't
think religion is a choice. And so those are examples of a whole conversation about whether
or not anything is a decision. Like because there's a slippery slope there where, you know,
like, so like, let's use your haircut as an example. I like your haircut. It's cool, right?
But like, let's say, let's say someone's like, why did you get that haircut? What would you say?
So the real story is I accidentally shaved my head like three months ago. And so this is just
the grown out version. And so I'm just glad you accidentally shaved your head. What do you mean?
Were you like five or like, what was it? No, so I had an undercut. I had really,
really long hair. And then I had like a shaved side. I had an undercut up until
February, March. And I would shave the undercut myself. And the guard came off, the guard fell
off. And I took out a chunk, I took out a whole chunk to the scalp, like to the scalp bald.
And so then I tried to fix it. So then I was like, following guys, relax, I'm on live.
So then I tried to fix it. And it looked worse. And then I tried to fix it again.
And then it looked worse. I tried one more time to fix it by following a tutorial.
And it looked worse. And I just shaved it off. I just shaved my whole head.
I did the same thing. So I one time, very different in my circumstance, because my hair
wasn't as long as yours. But like, I came home from work one day, I had pierced my lip that day.
And I was like, you know what, I need a haircut as well. I'll just go, I'll use the clippers that
my dad uses to clip the doll. And I was like, I'll just, and I'm shaving my head in the mirror.
I'm like, she and I put on a four or five. I was like, didn't want it too short.
I'm like, she's as short and I look on the ground and the clip had fallen off and I'm at zero.
Yep. It's just to the scalp. There was nothing I could do. It was like three different lengths.
And then it was like one length, but it was like door of the explorer. And then it was still the
undercut. And then like by the, then I finally became like a foe hawk. And I was like, I'm just
shaving it. So I shaved it all off. And then I've been growing it out. So this is like the grown
out pixie. Yeah, awesome. So I'm just going to keep it like this for like a year. Yeah.
Yeah. Cool. Cool. Well, um, so, um, I still remember coming to work like, and this was around the time
that I was like, like losing a job as you lost your was a youth pastor and like people like,
is Dave okay? I come to work one day, I got a shaved head and like a pierce lip and everyone's
just like, uh, I don't think he's all right. Like, like my friends come around and I'm like,
having beers for the first time in years. And I'm like, got a shaved head and like,
Dave's just like, cracked. I was like, no, I just, it was an accident. Like this was funny.
Yeah. This was an accident. Like, yeah. Anyway, um, I had a, I had a friend text me. She was like,
love the shaved head. She's like, I love it. If it's for style, looks hot. If it's for mental
health, call me. She's like, looks great. Yeah. So, so, um, well, so that's a great, great example
because you didn't actually have a choice there in shaving your head. Like it wasn't necessarily
your choice to shave your head there, right? But like, I mean, I could have left it one of the
other ways. Yeah. Yeah. Um, I could have just not trimmed it that day, I guess. I don't know.
Yeah. Well, I guess the point of like where I'm kind of, we're getting very deep, right?
Well, the point is like, like, so, like every decision we make, he's comes from a want,
right? This is like, this, we're getting into like some beta level, like, like pseudo philosophy
kind of memes here. My own thoughts that someone's going to point out a stupid, some reason point
some philosopher I don't know of. But like every, every decide, everything that, like the reason
I try to put this shirt on was because I wanted something. I wanted to, you know, I'll put this
shirt on because I think it looks better than when I don't wear a shirt of my other shirt, right?
Right. And it's like, why? And it's like, well, you know, um, I, because I think it looks better
because society is like, and then it's like, why? And you can keep asking why, why, why, why, why,
why, why? And eventually you get to such a fundamental level that you don't actually have,
like you don't choose the why, you don't choose the wants. So the want, like the want, want,
want, want, want, eventually get to a fundamental level where you don't choose the want, right?
Right. I, you don't choose the want, but you choose the action, whether or not you
give in to that want, if that makes sense. Yeah, but okay, well, give me an example.
So I'm sorry to, do you mind if we talk less into random questions?
Yeah, that's fine. So, um, like I was raised in like a Baptist Southern Christian home.
So I wanted to shave half my head for ages. I thought it would look so cool.
I wasn't going to do it until I was in my late twenties, you know, because of whatever, because
of stigma and all that. Um, and so like, I think, for example, whether or not you feel a certain
way, I don't think as a choice, whether or not you act on it is a choice. Um, I can think of like,
please. Um, so for example, if you're like, I really want to try, hold on.
I think the birds are, birds are having too much of a great time. So, um,
Pragmatic Crystal, great to see you here. You guys, you know, you're, um, Pragmatic Crystal,
you're a member. Um, I called her your member. Um, tomorrow morning, I'm doing a stream. Um,
you guys can jump on and chat and ask me questions if you want to hang out a couple of
hours. So yeah, just, um, link is in the, look at the membership thing and you'd be able to join.
Anyway, Sydney, what were you saying? I'm back. So I think we, we hear a lot of stories
historically about people who wanted to do things, but they didn't until later in life when it was
maybe more acceptable or when a spouse passed away or when their kids graduated from high school.
Right. And so I think once are not a choice, but I think actions are a choice.
You can want a tattoo, but you won't get that tattoo unless you decide to, or maybe you have
the financial means to you. Like I, I've always wanted to have short hair, but I didn't actually
do it until I had to do it until I had like no other choice, but to do it. Um, well, technically,
no other choice. Um, I think like, for example, you, maybe you live in Texas and you can get a
black car, maybe you want a black car, but you know that if you do the math, you know,
it's going to cost you this much more, the heat, the cooling, like the, the temperature of the car
is going to make a difference. So you don't get a black car. There are, I think there are a lot of
choices that we make every day based on things, wants and drives that we can't change, but we
can change the choice if that makes sense. And, and we can make certain decisions based on those
wants. See, I'm, I'm, I'm flirting with the, um, the idea that those, that, that choice that we
have, I go, I go, we have choice to some extent, but that choice that we have, I am starting to
flirt with the idea that that's like an illusion. Like it's not, it's not a real, it's not a real
thing. So for example, for a black car, right? Yeah. Right. So like the choice of like, well,
do I get the black car? I still have the choice being a black car, but you're still, you're still
that, that, that decision is still rooted in the wants. So you'll, you'll weigh up your wants. Do
I want to have $15,000 in my bank account or not? And that want isn't something that's chosen. You
don't choose the want. So underneath, underneath every decision, even though we do make the decision,
there's wants behind it that we don't have a, um, uh, a rationale for. They're just wants. Like I
don't want my hand to be burnt. I want it to be not burnt. So I don't put it on the hot plate,
but I didn't choose that want, but I have a choice to handle the top plate, but I won't.
The wants, I don't think we control the actions. I do think we control also to the opposite point.
We do lots of things every day that we don't actually want to do. You know, we go to jobs
that we don't actually want, but they were the best job for our actual wants at the moment.
You know, we don't actually, why? Why would you go to work if you don't want to?
Because they're the, the, the things that happen to you when you don't are worse for you than
just going. So I don't want to, yeah, but when you say, I'm sorry, I'm interjecting, but when
you say worse for you, what do you mean by that? Because I would just point that down to a want.
So for example, I want to live in a place with air conditioning. I don't have to go to work,
but if I want to live in a place with air conditioning, I need to bring in an income.
I don't care what that job is. I just want that air conditioning, if that makes sense.
So in my mind, my dislike for the job is outweighed by my like for the air conditioning.
So I, I, right. So I have two decisions to make. For example, I want the ice cream. I do,
I want it really bad, but maybe I'm lactose intolerant. And I know that what's going to happen
to me if I eat that ice cream does not outweigh my want for the ice cream. So I make the decision,
you could, you could just eat it. I mean, I guess I don't, I'm not lactose intolerant. I don't know
if that's, I've heard it's terrible if you do that. So the actual things that we want,
I don't think we can control, but I think every day we're faced with decisions where we balance out
the, we do like a, like a cost benefit analysis every day where we're like, does it cost me more
to give into this want than I benefit from the want, if that makes sense. Or do I benefit more
from not giving into the want than I would if I gave in. Sometimes it's familial, right? Sometimes
you're like, I just want to keep the peace of my family. So I'm not going to do this thing that I
want, whether it's a degree you want to study or a person you want to marry or whatever. And that
you can't control. You can't control what your family would do or how they would react to certain
things. But I think when it comes to the physical action of making the thing that you desire happen,
it is a decision that you make, even if you're not a big fan of the decision that you have to make,
but it, it's outweighed by the cost of getting what you want.
Well, I think we, I think, well, I, I, I, I agree in, I, I somewhat agree in a small
discreet. See, like, I, I would say that eating ice cream is a capital W want. I want the ice cream.
But the reasons not to eat the ice cream is still come back to a lower case want,
so it's like, I don't want to be sick. I don't want to be overweight. I don't want to have that
much sugar. And it's like, why? It's like, well, I don't want to be sick because I don't like to
feel it. That's not a choice. Like that's just how it is. I don't want to be overweight, you know,
and I've eaten too many calories today. Well, I don't want that because of societal pressure
and all like all these different reasons, but they all come down to me want. So look, this,
this took a really wild turn. Yeah. No answer to this, but it's just, it's, it's, it's interesting
that like, I wonder how, so let's just be right back. So back to the jokes about like, it's fun
to punch up, picking on people like celebrities or whatever, like people in places of privilege,
it's great. But like to get certain aspects also, that's like another thing. Just because you're
famous, it's like, okay, I can joke about you being famous. I'm not going to joke about horrible
things that have happened to you because you're famous, right? Or if you, if you're like an ugly
celebrity, I'm not going to make fun of the fact that you're ugly. Now, if I am going to make fun
of the fact that you're in the tabloids all the time, or that you did a really stupid sponsorship
that is, you know, like how the Kardashians do all those weight loss teas and things, fair game,
fair game, they signed the dotted line, they made money, they put their face out there, that's fine.
Their kids did not. They're like, Chloe, I feel like has issues. So I'm never going to make a
joke about her appearance, because it's very evident that there's something going on there,
you know, that's not something that she signed up for. And again, that's me personally, I know
that there's other people that'd be like, nah, if them, they're the ones who set that standard,
they should have to, you know, and that's, that's that person's opinion. But and like politicians,
like, whatever they stand for, I'm going to roast that because they made that public.
Yeah, yeah, exactly. And I think that this is this is the beautiful thing about about these,
like, this discussion, this dialogue is because I think that, like, just to wrap up what I was
trying to say is, like, the, the, I wonder if in the future, people are going to look back at this
conversation and say, we were like, like how it looked back 20 years ago at like my, what looked
like homophobia, I wonder if that, that the expansion of like, what do people choose and why
I wonder if that becomes more cognizant, I think that's the right word, in, in the, in the zeitgeist
and the, in the, in the, in what, in how people view the world, like, let's say we solve brains
and we work out that every decision is just a biochemical reaction to something or something,
right? Right. We just solve, solve consciousness, don't think it's going to happen, but let's say
we do, and we, we discover it's all natural. It's all like, it's, we live in a completely
deterministic universe or whatever. Like, how will that, like, will we then, will, will jokes ever be
okay to talk about? Like, if we could show that, that decisions just came down to once, that we
didn't, we didn't choose, right? Like, like, you know, like being, you know, going through a hormonal
change or something and then having like, or something, and then it changes your, your mood,
like something like that. I wonder if the scope of comedy will actually change. And then all of a
sudden it's not people with immutable characteristics, that's the word. It's not just with immutable
characteristics, but we start to view everything as immutable. I wonder, like, how does comedy and
public discourse change in that, in that situation? I don't know. This is something.
Well, and I think when, when I use the term okay, like what's, what's okay to joke about, I mean,
personally to me, there will always be people who do the kind of jokes that I necessarily don't
find are my style. There will always be people who punch down, who roast people, who make jokes
about all that stuff. Those people always exist. And whether or not there's an audience for them,
that I think there always will be an audience for them. And so I do think the landscape for comedy
is always changing. I do think as we're, we're learning more things about like human beings and,
and mental illnesses and how humans operate and what makes us do certain things. I think
comedy will always be changing and evolving, but there will always be space for that content that
is just out there to, to be that kind of content. And there will always be people consuming that.
I don't think that'll ever not exist. I think as long as human beings exist, there will be
savage comedy, you know, that there will always be podcasts being called out for saying certain
things and stuff like that. But I think there will be larger and larger groups of people
seeking different types of comedy than that. 100%. So no, I agree. It's just, it's just interesting
and sorry to be, to pull us on such a random. No, I love it. This is great. So good. Good.
How do you feel? So tell us a little bit about your journey, actually, because I want to learn
a little bit about where you kind of come because we, I feel like we get on so well, I can, I can
talk to you for hours. So let's start with, I actually don't know much about you, except that
you were afraid of the rapture. That's essentially all I learned. And, and you're from like the
Appalachian Mountains and your family has like a 200 year old, his, so not a Ozark Mountain.
Ozark, just because Appalachian people will be like, she's not one of us. And I'm not, I don't
design that title. So I am from Arkansas. My, I was raised by a single mom. I have a brother.
My dad died when I was, he died literally a week after my first birthday. So it was just like
the three of us for a very long time. And my dad was an artist. He actually did most of the artwork
in my room. He did like this picture. He did all the art in my room. And I've always been in a very
artsy family. My mom studied journalism. She was like a speech professor at one point in her life.
And my brother's always been in theater. He's actually a playwright right now. And he directs
theater as well. So we've always been just like a very artsy performative family. And when I was a
kid, I wanted to be a cartoonist. I started doing illustrated comics. And my goal was to have a
syndicated comic strip in the Sunday papers. I wanted to have like one of the color strips in
the Sunday paper. I sound like such an old person when I say that I wanted to have one of those,
those colorful funnies on the Sunday paper. But it was Arkansas. It was Arkansas in the 90s. So
there wasn't really a lot going on. We had local theater and we had high school theater. And we
would compete in competitive debate and forensics, which was like competitive acting and competitive
public speaking. But that was kind of all there was really at the time. So we were always trying to
exercise our creativity that way. And then when I was in, I think seventh grade,
no, I would have been seventh or eighth grade. I was always a big fan of Saturday Night Live.
But one day I think I was in eighth grade. I realized, I was like, wait a second, Saturday
Night Live is somebody's job. Like somebody makes money doing that. That's interesting. How do they
do that? And I remember Saturday Night Live kind of inspired me to join drama and stuff like that.
But I was never an actor. I remembered joining drama and feeling like one of the odd ones out
because I'm not an actress. I'm a terrible actress. I'm a horrendous actress. But that was really
all there was. So I would always go for the humorous characters. Like I was the monkey ruler in
Jungle Book and I got to wear like a fat suit and stuff. I love doing that stuff. I love making
people laugh. But my brother is a very good actor and he's very good director and writer. And he
always seemed to really just like hone in on that. And then when I was older, I started thinking
about Saturday Night Live again. I was probably in 10th grade and I was like, how, how is that
somebody's job? How do you do that? And my mom looked into it because she's always been very
supportive because my brother and I have been like, we've been super hard workers our whole
life. We weren't really those kids who picked up stuff and quit it just instantaneously except
piano. I quit piano. Fun fact, I had the same piano teacher as the Duggers. We had the same piano
recitals for anybody in the chat who knows who that is. And so then we looked into it and it
turns out they all come from a place called the Second City, which is a comedy theater in Chicago.
And so my mom said, over Thanksgiving break, let's go check it out. Let's go see a show,
blah, blah, blah. So we did. We went to Second City and we saw two shows, two nights in a row.
And it was, I remember watching them and being like, that's what I want to do. That's it.
Like, what do you call this? This is so good. This is what I want to do. Short form sketches,
making people laugh, playing characters, telling jokes that I wrote. And we saw one show one night
and they just crushed it. And then we saw a second show the next night and they just crushed it. And
it was just a magnificent experience. And in the building where the Second City is located in Chicago,
there's a Starbucks. And the next day, the third day, we were at Starbucks and I look over and I
see a comedian that I had seen in one of the shows the night before. And I had one of those little
fangirl moments where I'm like, do I go talk to him? Do I, you know, what do I say? And finally,
I got up the courage to talk to him. And I asked him, I said, you know, if you had advice for
somebody who wanted to do what it was that I saw you do yesterday, what would you say? Like,
what would your advice be? And he said that he said, I can't give you better advice than to move
here. He's like, you have to move here. If comedy is what you want to do, if you want to get connected,
if you want to get the training that you need, if you want to get the experience you need,
there's no better opportunity than for you to move here. And I'm sure he meant when I was an adult,
I'm sure he meant like when I was a grownup. And he said, I can't give you better advice
than that. Everything you need is here. And so I talked to my mom, and she said,
if you're serious about it, because I was a very serious kid, my brother and I were both very
serious. We were those, excuse me, we were those drama kids that would like rehearse for like hours
in our room, just like get it perfect, you know, we were like workaholics from the age of 11.
So she, she knew that I was serious about it. And so she said, if you're, if you're dead serious,
this is really what you want to do, then we'll take a year. She's like, I can get a year sabbatical,
she's a teacher. So they'll hold my job for a year, we'll move here. And you can start taking
classes at Second City. She said you there's rules though, one, you got to get a job, because this
is a family thing, we're all going to pull this together. You got to get a job, you got to contribute.
Two, if your grades slip, we're going home. She's like, if either one of your responsibilities
slip, you're going home. Or if I find out that you're not going to your classes or whatever,
we're going home. So in 11th grade, I moved to Chicago, and my brother was in college, and he
transferred schools, he found out we were leaving and he's like, well, I'm going to, he's like,
you're not gonna leave me here. So we went, yeah, so we all went to Chicago, we moved down the
street from the Second City into this tiny little apartment, we took our dogs. And I started taking
classes there, I ended up getting some scholarship that I didn't realize you could get scholarships
to classes like that, turns out you can. And I started taking improv classes in their teen program.
And so I was like going to high school during the day, and then I was taking comedy classes at
night, and working at Bill DeBear Workshop, that Navy Pier nightmare experience, by the way,
if anybody's curious. So then one day, I get home, and my mom is on the phone with somebody from
Second City, and she hangs up and she says, the Second City just called, and they said that
they just started a new teen standup class. But not enough people signed up, only two kids signed
up, but they don't want to cancel it. So you start on Thursday. And I was like, what? And she's like,
yeah, good luck, you start on Thursday. She's like, they just auto-enrolled a bunch of their
improv kids into standup. So you start standup. And I was pissed, I was so mad, because like,
improv is live, SNL is all I ever want to do with my life. This is, and I remember saying,
what if they laugh at me? And she's like, that's the point. That's literally that you're failing
already. Like that is the point. I don't understand. And I took my first standup class, and I have been
doing standup ever since. That was in 2008. And I've just been doing standup ever since. I got
hooked immediately. I thought improv was my jam. I thought that was for life, you know. But I've
just been hooked on standup ever since. And then I was introduced to storytelling, because years
later, so I started taking classes there. And then they hired me as a faculty member when I was 25.
And a couple years later, I get an email from a friend of mine who produces shows there. And he
goes, he's like, hey, you do storytelling, right? And I'd never done storytelling in my life. And
I was like, yeah. And he goes, okay, my headliner dropped out this weekend. Can you do 15 minutes?
And I was like, sure. I did. I'd never done storytelling in my whole life. And I ended up
telling a story about the first time I ever smoked weed. And people responded to it in such a positive
manner. I had such a good time that that's when I started storytelling. And I've always been a huge
fan of David Sedaris. And I never knew what to call what it was that he did when I would see him on
stage. I pay to see him live all the time. I still I got to meet him last year. And it was like,
but I never knew what that was. What is that? It's not standup. He's just reading his writing
to people. He's just reading it. Like, what do you call that? It was storytelling. And so now
I do storytelling. And I I actually like storytelling more than standup, although
in my particular style, very similar. But yeah, I've just I've been doing standup and storytelling
ever since. And it just really the pieces just click together in that moment. And I owe it all to
the guy who just called my mom. And it was like, Hey, by the way, your daughter needs to start
class. I don't know. Like that guy has no idea. He probably made 100 calls that day. He has no
idea he changed the course of my entire future just by randomly going down a spreadsheet and
calling my mom. Wow. So, so when you so did you grow up in like a religious family? Like,
yeah, I did. I did. We gathered that because he put the podcast is growing up funny. So
yeah. So I wasn't fundamentalist, but I went to church with fundamentalists. Like I went to
church with the duggers and stuff like that. Like I knew about them. I don't actually know who they
are. So they are a family from a show called 19 kids and counting and then they had like counting
on. That was another one. And now they've got 20 kids at the time there were only 10 of them back
when I knew them in person. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, they're they're a I think now I would call them
IBLP. They've actually got a documentary coming out soon. But yeah. And so we called ourselves
non-denominational, but I would say we were always Baptist, even though we said as a family,
we were not denominational. We always pretty much went to Baptist church with a very few
exceptions. And my mom is very religious. She prays. She's one of the people who, you know,
when you're stressed out, she says, you need to pray about it. You need to ask God how you feel.
We weren't fundamentalist by any means. And my mom is very liberal for Southern Christian ladies.
She in every group that she's in, she's the most liberal one. But there's still Christianity is
still very much part of how I was raised and how my brother was raised and and how she operates.
My mom, one of my classic, the classic things my mom always says, and she's my mom's amazing,
but she says, she goes, she's always been too bent for the straights and too straight for the
bends. She's like, she doesn't want to hang out with like drug dealers, but she doesn't like
hanging out with, you know, the church librarian. Like she's just, yeah. My mom is literally a
librarian. So she's one of those people where like, she does not care if you're gay. That's fine.
She does not care if you're non-binary, but don't use the Lord's name in vain in her house.
No matter what you identify as, you know what I mean? Like that doesn't, that's fine. They,
them, that's cool, whatever. Don't use that language in my house. Yeah.
Interesting. So do you have a strong faith like growing up?
I did. I did. Yeah. And I, I feel like in the American South, I don't know what it's like
everywhere else, but I feel like in the American South, everybody gets very religious around 11
or 12. You go to church since birth, but for some reason around 11 or 12, you really just
start feeling it. That's when you really just want to read your Bible and do your devotionals every
night and try to see if you can read the entire Bible itself. And that seems to be a very common
experience that I've shared with many people that I've interviewed on the podcast. And so I remember,
for example, in, at least in the Baptist church, you get saved. And that's when
you decide that you want God and Jesus to be a part of your life. You want to have a personal
relationship with them. You get baptized. I know some religions baptize you as a baby,
but in the, in the Baptist church, it's like a, it's a choice that you make. So some people
get baptized as adults. Most people that I know personally get baptized either in their youth or
in their teen years. And so I remember, I was very, very religious. Definitely believed in
God. Definitely thought that if I prayed, that would help my fears or worries go away. I listened
to a lot of Christian music. I remember prayer at the table being big in our household. And
I never really questioned it. It wasn't, it wasn't until I was in my early 20s that my
Christianity became kind of a, like a bragging thing, you know, like, oh, I'm very Christian,
I go to church. I never thought about it as a kid. And I knew about the rapture. I knew about
stuff like that, but I never questioned any of it. It just, that's just how it was. I knew there
were different types of Christians. Like we all knew that the people, like the Duggers, were way
more religious. And I knew things like they weren't allowed to wear pants and stuff like that. But in
the way that it was talked about was just kind of, that's just their family's rules,
mind, drone business type stuff. And I knew that Catholics were different, like my cousin was Catholic,
and I knew his church was kind of boring in my opinion. But I didn't think anything like I'm
better than anybody because I'm Christian. I don't even think it occurred to me that anybody
else wasn't Christian. I don't think it occurred to me that kids that I went to school with,
the only kid I remember not being a Christian was technically a Christian was,
um, and I could be, I don't think they considered themselves Christians. I could be wrong. Was
a Jehovah's Witness and he wasn't allowed to stand and do the prayer. And like, is that considered
like? I think they considered, um, like they would consider themselves the Christians, like.
The, okay. Well, I felt like they, I know they consider themselves different than Baptist.
I wasn't sure if that was still considered Christianity. I didn't want to call it something
it wasn't. They used different terminology, but essentially they think they're the ones from
the Bible that everyone should, um, you know, they're the 144,000 and all that stuff, right? So
like they, they would say that Christians aren't Christian, but what aren't, it's hard to explain,
but yeah. Do they believe that Jesus is the Son of God? I actually don't know if, because they have
some very weird, they have some very weird like, um, they have some very weird like terminology.
This is me, I'm Googling. I needed Jamie. Jamie, check that. Um,
where Jesus is the Son of God, because they'll say something like,
yeah, I think they do. Yeah. They say he's his firstborn son. Yeah. That's like, when I say Christian,
I just mean anybody who believes that like Jesus is actually the Son of God. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Okay. Um, that, that's, that's super. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I, I, I, yeah. Sorry. Yeah. Because I know
like Mormons, for example, even though they do have the Bible, they aren't considered Christians
because they believe in like Joseph Smith's teachings as opposed to Jesus's teaching. So even
though some of it's similar because there's that like angle where they follow Joseph Smith as the
prophet instead of Jesus, they're not, they don't consider themselves like Christians. Um,
but yeah. So I definitely grew up Christian. Everybody I knew was Christian. There was a
large Mormon population where I grew up, but we all just kind of like agreed that, you know,
we, we were going to be good people and go to church and people went to different churches. And
then there was, uh, Methodists and such, but it wasn't until I moved to Chicago and got to be in
my twenties and I was still actively going to church and stuff like that, that I feel like
that's when I became a Cavalier Christian. That's when I became like I'm, I am morally
superior than other people. Even though I won't say it out loud, I, I do believe that I'm morally
superior to people because I go to church and I pray and I don't smoke weed and which I laugh
about now. I laugh my ass off now. Um, but that was because you laughed. Look at my haircut.
Yeah. Um, so yeah. Yeah. So how did you, so did you end up, um, like deconstructing? Um,
or are you like, are you still, are you still a hardcore Christian? Like how did you go from
no, no, um, people even now and they're having a blast. They just love deep drinks. So
if, um, yeah. So did you go from, how do you go from being a Christian to, or what are you now?
Like, what would you, I'm, so I'm an atheist. I've, I've totally deconstructed. I think what
happens with a lot of Christians is they start to question things and they, um, hold on for dear
life. They start to ask questions. They start to wonder about things. They start to recognize
that things don't make sense as you enter like 21, 22, 23. You have a lot of questions and stuff.
And I was in debate. So a big, a big detail, a big reason why I started deconstructing was I was
actually in debate. I was a professional debater. I debated in college. Um, that's how I paid my way
through school. And then I did pro level in college and after college as well. And it was
just weird to me that every weekend I could demand evidence, demand research, demand links.
I had websites that I would tell people weren't good enough evidence and they needed to find more.
For example, don't give me Wikipedia. Give me like CNN, that sort of thing. And yet on Sundays,
I didn't need any of that. And yet when it came to my eternal salvation, I didn't need any of that.
I was just supposed to believe blindly. I was just supposed to have the most important questions.
Right. Right. Absolutely. And so that's when I started to wonder like, why is it that I
require evidence and like science and research and I will, and I will defend that stuff to the death.
And yet when it comes to the most important aspect, my eternal salvation,
I don't need to see anything. I just need to believe in half faith. I just need, and that didn't make
sense to me. But when you start to question Christianity, at least from a Southern Baptist
perspective, one of the things they tell you your entire life is that when you go out into the real
world and when you start meeting people outside of the church, they're going to make it look really
fun to not be a Christian. They're going to make it look really, really fun to not go to church,
and they're going to ask you questions about God, and they're going to make it like very appealing
to not be a Christian anymore. And that's the devil. That's the devil working his trickery,
and you're stronger than that. And if you have faith in God, you won't let that get to you.
So when you first start questioning, and when you first start having these thoughts, and when
people in your life start asking you like, well, if God is real, then why this and why that, you
start thinking, oh no, this is what they've always warned me about. This is the moment. This is that
moment in time that I've been training for my whole life. They're going to question me, and I
have to prove that I'm strong enough. And I feel like I'm weak right now because it's sounding
really like the logic they're using is making sense. And this is the hard part they always
warned me about. And so I think what a lot of Christians do is they hang on for dear life.
They hang on, and they're just like, they're on the boat with their hands just hanging on.
They don't want to fall in the water. And that's when they're tweeting Bible verses, and they're
sharing the biblical memes, and they're going to church every day, and they're
not hanging out with people who aren't Christian. And it looks like they're very devout, but really
what's going on is they're struggling harder than they've ever struggled before. And that's
what was happening to me was I was so desperate to not be seen as one of the failures that I would
do literally anything to look more Christian than anybody else. I don't even think I believed half of
what I was saying, but I knew that if I didn't say it, I would be, I might be visible as one of the
weaklings. And I went from being like a casual Christian most of my life to being like a
devout Christian, because I was so afraid that I would be spotted as one of the weaklings and I
would be like targeted by like Satan, that I had to look as devout as possible. I had to pray every
night. I had to share the Bible verses on my Instagram. I had to, you know, wear dresses with
hair bows and make sure that I went to Sunday school and main service. And so that's what I was
doing for like two years. And then I started to really just kind of explore what it would mean
if none of that stuff was true. I was like, okay, I'm a debater. My job is to research both sides
of the argument to understand both the side that I agree with and the side that I don't agree with.
What would that look like? I'm just going to look in there. What would that look like if I
did think that? What would that look like if I said, okay, like God isn't real? And the more
research that I did, the more it really started to make a lot of sense. The more it started to be
like this is going from I'm just doing enough research to win this debate to this might actually be
what I think. And I was starting to realize that politically as well, because I thought
just because of the environment I'd grown up in, I thought I was a conservative republican
Christian girl, just because that's where you grow up. And politically, I was at the more
research I was doing, the more I was learning about what that really means in America to be
like a Republican, what that means that you stand for, what that means that you vote for.
I was recognizing that that wasn't at all what I thought. And then I was learning more about
being a liberal, because you know, where I was from, being a liberal was like, being a liberal was
sorry, where I was from, like being a liberal meant certain.
I may go put them away if they're being loud and obnoxious. So they do, they do what they're
doing right now is they're flock calling. We have other birds. And when they don't see some of the
birds for a certain amount of time, they flock call to make sure that they're okay. And they call
back. They're like, they're doing like a call and a response. So they're not just being annoying,
they're responding to other birds who don't see them. Yeah. So I might, if it gets annoying, I can
literally go put them away. But that's, they're doing like a nighttime call and response. The
other birds just want to make sure they're okay. But anyway, so yeah, so I started to learn like
maybe God isn't real, maybe I'm not a Republican, maybe I am a Democrat, maybe I am a liberal,
maybe being a liberal isn't as bad as I was told. And like in my house, it wasn't like don't be a
liberal. But in my entire vicinity, it was being a liberal is not a good thing. We make jokes about
liberals. I remember making jokes about Democrats all the time when I was too young to even know
what that meant. And then I did shrooms. And then I did shrooms. And I, what shrooms?
I do, that's, that was the one of the last, that was one of the things I wanted to talk to you
about. Because let me just, let me just pump the brakes real quickly. Because I remember being
that same, that same situation as you. And I remember messaging a friend, we're trying to solve
creationism and like work out like, you know, interpretations of the Bible and all this stuff.
And we're just, we're just working so hard. And then I just remember one day just messaging them
and saying, like, what if God, there is no God. And they didn't tell me this, but apparently they
like, they were, they recently came out, like came out, but recently got engaged to their,
to their partner, they were like a lesbian. And their message there, they turned to their partner
and said, I don't think I can talk to Dave anymore. Like he's, he's gone too far. Like he's, like,
I don't need to take a break. I didn't even realize, I just thought like, oh, yeah, they just
we have a message for a few days or whatever. But then eventually they came back to me, because
apparently that me even just stating, maybe there is not like, what if, what if like, all of this,
like, what if all this work we're doing this post hack, whole Hock rationalization and trying to make
the Bible fit with 13.8 billion year old universe and all this stuff, like, and the evidence, like,
what if that's, what if we just, what if, what if the thing is that God just isn't real, like,
or at least the Bible biblical God isn't real. And they spent a few days and they actually
tossed and turned over that whole question. I think it was the first time they really actually
thought about that. And then they said they realized I was probably right. And then that's
where they started talking to me again. But I didn't know for years, I just thought I just
didn't chat for a few weeks, like, or, but, but yeah, apparently, like, that was them, like,
they couldn't handle that question that I just posed. And I didn't remember posing. It's not
like I was thinking, I just like chucked it out there as like a one-off thing. But it's just,
it's interesting when you're like, Oh, like, I went into this, like,
trying to examine why there are cracks in my faith. And like, so I can kind of
know the other side, like this, like, I've got a solution to this. But when you analyze it,
honestly, and you don't just go to, like, Ken Ham's website and like, you know,
leave whatever is said there, you, you, um, when you actually look at the evidence,
you're like, Damn, this is like, there isn't good reasons, I believe. And it's scary, but exciting,
but yeah. And I couldn't, I couldn't, what's the word I'm looking for? I, I couldn't live with that
in my brain. I couldn't for money be like, give me facts, give me evidence. I'm going to win this
debate because this, this, this, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada. And then not also live that way. It
felt so fake. And it felt like I'd spent years being shown. This is what a bad arguer looks like.
And then you see that in everyone you go to church with, you see them choking and like
not answering the question. And when you start, when you're trained to know what certain types
of arguments look like, and then you see that in the people that you're now supposed to agree with,
you're like, that is a red herring. Like that is, that's literally what that is. So I was really
struggling. Do you think you're an honest person? Say what? Do you think you're an honest person?
Now, yes. Now, yes. Back then, no. I've always, I've always struggled with, I've always struggled
with lying. Like, like, I don't lie. Like I've always struggled with like, I've had psychologists
tell me that I have to tell white lies to get, I've got like a pathological fear of lying.
And I think, I think I can relate to you in that looking under that rug and like noticing something,
like, you can't go back. It's not like I had a choice. It's not like I had a choice to be like,
well, now I believe in Jesus. Now I don't, it's like, that person is so cool. It's not, it's, it's,
it's, it's, you don't, I didn't have a choice. I'm not used to lying to myself. The only thing I
could do after I saw what I saw was to pretend either that I didn't see it and just continue
like living a lie. It's like, I didn't see what I saw like, or like make up some excuse or some
reason that was so unfathomably, like dishonest that like, it was horrible. It's heartbreaking, right?
Like, maybe it's heartbreaking. That's a great way to put it. It's heartbreaking. Yeah. Give me
one minute. I'll be right back. I'm just going to put them on. I've got to promote some stuff anyway.
So tomorrow, tomorrow, everyone, we're doing the live hangout with me. Look how, look how fun that
is. Look how fun that is. That look like, tell me, tell me that doesn't look like a great fun. So
anyone who is a supporter of the channel financially, if you're a Patreon member or you're a member on
YouTube, doesn't matter even, even if you start up today, you can come and hang out. We're just
going to be, you know, I'll have a couple of drinks again in the morning. One day, I hope I don't turn
into alcoholic, but, but yeah, we'll have some drinks though. You can chill out in the morning,
we'll talk about, you know, believe God and all that stuff. And, you know, if you've got stuff you
want to shout out, come on and shout out, but it'll be a good time. I hope we don't, you know,
have a maximum of 10 people that I can bring on. But, you know, we'll circle through. But yeah,
just hit the link in the membership and on Patreon. The link is there and you can join it. You don't
have to put your cameras on. So if you know this or you don't want to, that's totally cool. You can
just join audio only. And everyone's welcome. You're not going to be put on the spot or anything.
Everyone who supports is welcome. But here's something else I want to mention. And I see
your back, Sidney, but I want to mention one more thing that I'm pretty proud of actually.
Let me just find it. While you're finding it, I do want to say multiple people have called the bird's
sun conures in the comments and they're actually green cheat conures. Oh, cool. Sun conures are
10 times louder if you can believe it. Oh, wow, damn. And the other thing is I'm doing is,
so I work as a marketing officer. But I also work as if I'm moving into full-time video editing.
I've been video editing for 15 years. I'm pretty good at video editing and I'm pretty okay at
like After Effects and things like that. But I want to teach people how to video edit. I want to
teach them how to make thumbnails, make content, the kind of content that I create, not just on
deep drinks, but I've been doing some editing for MythVision. So I'm doing a live stream,
how to video edit. So that's going to be on my David McDonnell YouTube channel,
which is called At Post Faith. The link's in the description. So if you want to learn how to video
edit your questions, I'm going to be taking beginners right from the start all the way up to
like complex topics. But it'll be a very fast-paced style of learning how to video edit. It won't be,
it'll be beginner-friendly, but it won't be like, this is a how-to. It'll be like, this is the psychological
psychological reason why you'd cut here and sort of here. Like it's, I want someone to be able to
take the tools that I teach here and move it into Adobe Premiere or DaVinci Resolve. I will be
editing in Adobe Premiere, but you can take the stuff and use it in any editing software. It doesn't
matter if it's Windows Movie Maker. So yeah, I actually recorded like half a course that I was
going to like sell on Skillshare and I was like, this is so much work. Like I just want to help
the community. I'm just going to, I'm just going to do a live stream because that's awesome. That's
really cool. That's a great idea. Yeah, cool. I'm glad you appreciate it. But yeah, come on to that
if you want to learn how to video edit and hang out. But so Sydney, you have an amazing story
about shrooms. Before we get into this though, I want to preface this by saying, I don't recommend
people just do shrooms or acid or anything like that. There are obviously some, there's a lot of
pros, a lot of cons. I've had friends who have taken it and they're still stuck in a loop. Like
not good things can happen if you, especially if you take it irresponsibly. There is some
really incredible research that's coming out around shrooms and around overcoming like mental
issues and things like that. So it's, and there's some good evidence that it's going into like
trials for like actually helping people with like OCD and things like that. Yeah, just like
Adderall, just like Xanax, just like anything else. Some people, it's great. Some people,
it will leave a lasting negative impact. Yeah, exactly. So, but for you, so you, so I imagine
you've deconstructed your fate at this stage. So at that point, obviously, like at that point,
no, or do you mean this current stage? No, I mean, when you first, well, actually, so give us a bit
of your history. Did you like, so did you, were you new to mind offering substances
before you took streams? Like, okay, so you had your smoke for weed? Had you drank alcohol?
Yes. So, yeah, so I had started dating somebody who was an atheist, but he was one of those,
like their whole, their whole personality is atheism. Like, you know, those like those like
early 2008, 2009 type atheists, where like everything has everything on their YouTube
has to be like so and so destroy so and so. And I angry atheist age. Yes. And I actually think
that is more harmful to other people's deconstruction journey than helpful. And so I was
still a Christian, I was still going to church, I was still fighting with this idea that like,
the debater in me said, this makes sense, pay attention to it. The Christian in me says,
this is literally what we've been warning you about your whole life and you're failing. Good
job, like good job there. All you had one job and it was to have God's back and like you're,
you know, you're abandoning him. And then the debater in me was like, yo, I don't see any facts
or evidence. In fact, the deeper you dig, you find more evidence to support that this isn't real
and that this has all been a thing. And so I had started dating somebody who was like one of those
militant atheists. And I was actually retreating further back into Christianity because his whole
thing was like, we're going to have like a philosophical debate every time it was just
very exhausting. And so I would I would rather it just like it shut me down to the point where I
was literally like, la, la, la, la, you can't get me instead of like having actual like, it's
which I'm glad for because now as somebody who's an atheist who promotes atheists like content
and channels, I make sure that I don't at all come across that way, because I know how that
actually paused my deconstruction journey for like three years because of that attitude. So
I'm glad that I was exposed to it because I know what not to do and I know how that can come across.
I'm just just quickly on the same like I I have my other I have a I have a spicy Twitter
where I like like get angry and like when I'm like angry about like the world and like
religion is holding back women or whatever like I like and like all this stuff and I
tweet angry stuff. And then I have deep drinks where I post only like nice calm collected.
And that's the same with you know, I do get into those like I still love my angry atheist
stuff sometimes. I love arguing with white supremacists about stuff. But deep drinks I try
and keep I want I want Christians and Buddhists and everyone to come on the channel and find
Oh yeah, at home, all the spice I'm like, I like go off, you know, or I'll make like jokes all the
time. But so that he also like smoked weed and he dabbed and so I started like smoking weed too.
Dabbing us in like that or like no it's unlike before pre pre TikTok dab or whatever. Although
I do I do love a good dab that way too. It's nice. Yeah, it's so cringy. There's this young guy who's
come to work and he's like, stop dude. And he's like, stop, stop. He's like he was like, I was
like, am I being hip? And like, he's like, stop. Like I'm just so cringy. Is my eyeliner on fleek
today? Would you say no cap family? Yeah, yeah. What's that like that? Jeff? Hello, fellow youths.
Sorry, keep going. Yeah, you're good. And so and this whole time I was still doing stand up. So I
would have like an existential crisis in the morning and then I would go to a stand up show
that evening. Like it was not a big deal, which is alarming. But then one day he like he was
like, hey, do you want to try shrooms? And I was like, sure, why not? And he's like, you know,
I got the whole spiel like we're gonna micro dose. You know, I don't want you to want you to be in
like a safe environment. I want you to feel like what is your headspace good? You never want to
be an anxious, nervous ball of just anxiety before you do shrooms, because then you're just
going to have a bad time. You're gonna have bad that's why I never do shrooms because I'm always
an anxious bull. Right, right. If you've got like if you've got a lot going on right now that's not
good, don't do shrooms. It'll just make it scary. It'll just make it psychedelic. You'll have the
same problems. They'll just be in 3d. So um, yeah, so I man, it was a wild experience. I'm so grateful
for it. That is literally the night that I changed as a person as a human being. It's hard to describe,
but I woke up the next day with a different brain, like a different personality, a different
thought process. If the only way the best way I can describe it is it felt like there was a
part of my brain that had been locked for 26 or 27 years and was unlocked that night and
will just not close again. It's just, it's open. It's open forever. And I tell people all the time,
I ate that pot belly brownie cookie with the shrooms in it as a Republican Christian,
and I woke up the next day a Democrat atheist. And I like, it's so hard to describe,
but I have never, I feel like a different person went to sleep that night and a different person
woke up. I don't relate at all to the person I was up until that point. Not at all. I even look at
pictures and I'm like, that was just, that was a different person. I have those memories, but that
was, I don't know why my brain operated the way it did. I don't know why certain things were the
hills I chose to die on. I don't know why I was so ashamed of certain things that now I'm not ashamed
of it all. You know, you asked me a minute ago, do I have issues with honesty? I feel like I am
honest to a fault, but not a fault at the same time. Like, it doesn't bother me at all
for people to give me like honest feedback. It doesn't bother me at all if people don't like
my jokes truly. And it's not like, if you don't like it, you can go, no, literally, that's okay.
It wasn't, if it's not your thing, it's not your thing. And I just feel like I look at people
differently. I look at animals differently. I treat human beings differently. I interact with
human beings differently. I feel like I have so much more sympathy and empathy for other people now.
And so if I had started growing up Fundy when I was in my 20s, it would be a totally different
podcast. It would probably be one of those like, you know, angry atheist type debate podcasts.
But the minute that I decided I was no longer a religious person, and I simply didn't believe
that God existed, I became so much more curious about other people and their beliefs, and not in
a way that I want to change their mind, more in a way that it doesn't impact me at all, why they
think that or how they think that at all. You know, the only, I, some might argue, well, it
impacts you when they take it to Washington, right? And like, sure, that's, you know, when
they start making laws based on that. But like my neighbor being Buddhist or whatever, to me
is absolutely fascinating. And even if that person were to look at me and be like, by the way,
in our faith, you know, atheists do this and that and the other, it's like, oh, man, that sucks.
But okay, glad it's not real. In my opinion. Yeah, I just, I'm so grateful for that experience.
I freak out sometimes when I think about who I could possibly be if I had not had that experience.
It's a little bit scary to me, kind of like whenever you, you almost get hit by another car
and you're just like, oh, oh, God, you weren't hit, you're fine, you're totally fine. It nothing
happened. But you just think in your mind, like I was so close to having a different outcome.
That's a little bit what it feels like very much like the wind of old me like whooshing by and
seeing who I could have potentially been. But yeah, and, and I just, I don't know. I've just been
finding out who this new person is for years. And I'm having a great time with her. I don't know.
I don't know what other people think. And that's fine. But who is it that says like what people
think of me, what other people think of me is none of my business. That's how I feel. But yeah.
And so I woke up that morning and I was like, God is not real. He's not real.
You know, when, and I try to describe it to people when you're high on weed, when you're
smoking weed, and you think of a question and you're like, whoa, and you write down that question,
the next day it's like the dumbest question you've ever heard in your life. You're like, this is
yeah, yeah, yeah. When I was on show, so many two park lyrics on like my Facebook and it's like,
I'm like, just the opposite of two. Like, you know, I mean, like two parkers, like, you know,
revolutionary, like, and I'm just like, I'm like, this is so profound, like to live and die in LA.
I remember posting to live and die in LA on Facebook. And it was just like, I look back
there. Now I'm like, what was even that about? Like, I don't know. Yeah. And that's how I feel
about a lot of my past stuff when I'm like, Oh, John three 16, really, girl. Okay. But
yeah, and there was a morning process. There was definitely a morning process. I try to explain
to people who are very religious all the time. I'm like, you know, you think that when people
become atheists, they're like, Yeah, rock and roll, we can do whatever the fuck we want. Because
God's not real. Like, I'm going to party. I'm going to have all this wild. That's not it at all.
It's like, first you mourn the fact that everything you've been told is not true.
Then you mourn the fact that there is no beautiful, heavenly, whatever waiting for you,
none of it matters. And then you mourn everybody, you know, who's still in it and you don't know
how to get them out. And that's painful. And that's the kind of thing where you're like,
and then you mourn certain things like my whole life. I had been told, you know,
your dad is so proud of you. He's watching you from heaven, this and that and the other. And
one day you'll see him again. And knowing that that's not true is a, you know, big bummer,
big bummer. When everybody you ever loved who has since passed, you know, for a fact,
you're never going to see them again. So it's like, Yeah, I mean, I guess I'm, it's a good thing
that hell is no longer real to me, but there are so many things that I was really looking forward
to that I just can't believe in. And if I say that I do, I'm lying. And that's not, I just can't do
that. I can't live my life lying like that. Yeah, there's, um, when I, when I, when I first,
I try to like the only time I've ever done psychedelics, and it was such a small amount,
and I was so stoned. We're in Nimbun, like it's like the weed town of Australia. And,
you know, we had some, and afterwards, you know, I, I conceptualized it like this. I was like,
when you, when you take, this is what I said at the time, right? And I was still, I guess,
a Christian, but I was really struggling, obviously. But I wasn't questioning my faith. I was just kind
of like, in a bad way. And I remember thinking, um, that when I, when you took acid, it's like you
enter the spirit realm. Yes. But without the authority of Jesus. That's what I used to say.
Right. So as a result, demons and other things can influence you. And that's why people's
personalities change. Yes. Because you've unlocked that thing. You've now been oppressed by demons.
Um, I don't believe in the spirit realm anymore. I don't believe any of that stuff. But it is
interesting that I think what we've discovered, and this is take everything we're saying with
a grain of salt, and I do see your question, um, uh, per aspera and astra that, um, and we will
answer it. But the, I think what actually happens is when they view someone in take everything I'm
saying with a grain of salt, look it up, but when they view someone under an MRI who's taken
shrooms, much more of their brain is, is, is, uh, is working than when they're just normal cognizant
or whatever. And so I think the theory is, and this is what my psychologist kind of explained
how he explained it to me. The idea is it's like, it's, it's letting, so like I might have, um,
using this again, using my jacket again, I might wear this jacket because I, um,
it, I think it looks better, right? And the reason I think it looks better is because I'm a little
overweight and I'm self-conscious about being overweight and like there's, there's these reasons,
right? When those like, you can imagine them as like walls that you put up. They're like things
that you put up to protect your, your self-identity. But what if you were to discover that your
self-identity, who you were, had nothing to do with like my physical features, like my being
overweight, then all of a sudden that reason that I'm wearing this because I feel over, because I
feel self-conscious about being overweight or something. This is an example. Then that would,
then all of a sudden I don't need to protect that anymore because I'm actually confident in this,
this, this person, this me, the self. So therefore that reason kind of falls away. Um,
and so all of a sudden, you know, you, someone takes shrooms and they're no longer self-conscious
about something. Yes. That's what happened to me. Yeah. Yeah. But the other thing is like,
it can, you know, it can open the door to where I, where I find,
where I find, um, it, it helpful. And this is, I haven't done a lot of, I haven't, well,
I said one time, but where I've done research, I've read the book, How to Change Your Mind,
which is, you know, a book about it and stuff. And one of the things that I, I noticed that's
helpful is, and this is to answer your question. Let me just put it up. What if someone has lost
as someone, what if you lost somebody's close in a sudden tragedy? Do shrooms help with complicated
grieving? I think they can, but I think it's better to go to a therapist. Right. And also,
I've heard that they highlight your current state of mind. So like, if you're still grieving,
you're going to grieve in 3D. If you're, if you're going through therapy, if you're feeling better
about it, if you feel closure, maybe you'll have a more closure related trip. But like, if you just
lost them, I would totally go to a counselor first. Yeah. So I know, I know that the one thing that,
that psychedelics are really good for is dealing with terminal illness. So knowing that you're
going to die, and then it helps people with that grieving process of like, essentially,
can down your life, because the reason is, this is me, this is complete conjecture on my part.
But it's, it's like, you have this perspective of death and life and everything like that.
And when you take psychedelics, it blows all those conceptions out of the water. And sometimes
you can even feel like you live, depending on the psychedelics, you can feel like you've lived
an entire lifetime or a few months in this other reality. So you kind of don't really care. Like,
it's like, you're just like, oh, yeah, there's like, it expands your worldview so broad that death
becomes a lot smaller. The downside that I see of all these like psychedelics is someone might
take it, say like, someone might take that they've, you know, going through some complicated grief,
and they might take it. And like you said, it amplifies it. And then all of a sudden,
they talk to their dead loved one, and they're convinced that they're really dead, and they're
really talking to them. And it's all real. You know, I've had friends who became convinced
that they could talk to animals for long periods of time after they took the large amount of acid,
or they could hype, speaking to them on the phone, and they wouldn't talk for like two minutes.
And, you know, they're in a really bad way. And I'm just waiting for them to talk and
they're giggling. And I'm knowing that what they think they can talk to me
through what is it, like brain, whatever. So the problem is, it's like, sometimes it can
expand it so much. And my psychologist is like, it's like, you blow your brain open, it scatters
all over the floor, and then you've got no one to like help put it back together where, traditionally,
there was the shaman who would guide the spirit realm and tell you like, oh, this spirit, the
evil spirits have left here, the good spirits, and like, guide your experience. And now what
they're doing is, in psychology, is there, there, you know, there was a trial with like 1100, I
think it was 1100, 1100 people who tried, had moderate to major depression. They all tried
mushrooms in the clinical setting, like in a bed, sitting there, like, like lying down with nurses
and everything. And none of them had a bad trip. 30% of them or something said they had, again,
look up the statistics had a, a mild discomfort, but then a large majority of them like, totally got
totally fixed that oppression and stuff. So that's why they're studying it. But it's more about the
setting than it is about the actual drug. Right, right. Absolutely. 100% and like the mindset.
I feel like if there goes, yeah, telepathy, exactly. Yeah, I've heard that mindset is everything.
Also, don't recommend shrooms while watching the animated Hunchback in Notre Dame either. It very
quickly becomes a horror movie. Very quickly becomes a horror movie. So don't do that. But yeah,
and so I like, I've heard lots of people having lots of different experiences. And so I never
tell that story as like a reason why people should do it, because each person is totally
different. Each person, I know people personally who had such a terrible experience, they never
want to do it again, which I am like, I'm so sad by that. Like I'm so sad by that because our
experiences were so different, but at the same time, that's part of being a human being, right?
But yeah, and so that was really like the, I think what it did was it didn't convince me of those
things. It just, it didn't allow me to not acknowledge them anymore, where for months I had
been thinking actually for years, honestly, I had been thinking those things and just suppressing
them and not acting on them. This was like showing me in my face, this is what you think,
this is you, this is in your brain, you believe this, stop lying to everyone around you. Like
stop pretending to be this person that you're not. I think that was what the big difference was,
because people try to take it sometimes, be like, oh, so you're saying shrooms made you an atheist?
No, no, I was one. I was just lying. I was a liar. And it made me face my actual thoughts
and realities. You mentioned that like you went to the movies and you went to the bathroom before
the movies and you saw yourself in the mirror and you said that you mentioned, and this isn't your
comedy specials, by the way, for people who want to go check it out, is you mentioned seeing yourself
for the first time. Like it was the first time you truly saw yourself. I have a question. Did you
look better or worse than you thought you did? Better. Way better. So, you know, a minute ago,
you were like, you were talking about people's insecurities. When I looked in the mirror, because,
you know, when, when you are used to looking at yourself, you hyper fixate on certain things,
whether it's your nose or your eyebrows or whatever. I got to see what I looked like to
other people. One, real short, real short. Didn't, didn't, like I knew that I was short, but like
I've always existed my height, so I don't feel short, real short. Like that was the first thing
How tall are you? I'm five, three. I'm five. Oh, wow. You're really actual. Yeah. I'm really
short, real short. I'm like, he's, he was like a, yeah, armrest. Yeah. Yeah. And I was like,
I was wearing like my friend's big, giant hoodie too. So it just really like amplified
like how small I look. So like it's down to your knees, like literally legs. Yeah. Yeah. And then
like also, so I saw myself in the mirror and for the first time ever, I separated the fact that
what I know to be me, what I know to be myself is just my brain operating and functioning. It's
just my brain. And the body is just the thing that follows what the brain tells it to do.
And I remember looking in the mirror and being like, Oh my God, like that body has just been working
right alongside me all this time. Wow. And I think I looked in the mirror and even said like,
we're doing good. Like we're doing great. We're a team, man. It was the very first time I've ever
gotten to like consciously separate the fact that everything I know to be myself is just a brain.
It's just the brain that's up here. And everything that's going on down here is just a body doing
what it's supposed to do based on what the brain, what I make it do. And I've never been able to
replicate that feeling, but I remember that feeling. I remember that, which is why like,
I can't do the actual like feeling of separation anymore. But I remember what it felt like.
And the cool thing about that is every time since then that I've had like a bad day,
whether you're just feeling down about yourself, you're just feeling self-conscious, whatever,
I remember what I looked like in the mirror. And it wasn't like photoshopped. It wasn't like,
Oh my God, I'm beautiful. It was more like nobody notices that spot that you think or
like nobody notices that one side of your jaw is a different size. My wife should, my wife should do
shrooms. She's like, she'll be like, oh, it should be like subconscious about something. And I'm
looking for like, I'm looking for the things to self-conscious. I can't see it. Like, I just, yeah.
You know how, have you ever like mirror imaged yourself and been like, that is the ugliest
troll I've ever seen? Like just mirroring. That's like, it gets rid of that. Like, it gets rid of
that. It's like, nobody gives a shit about all those things that you think make you look terrible.
I have a friend. Go, go, go. I have a friend who is so self-conscious about their nose. And
okay, I'm like, I'm trying to look at like something on me. Like, it's like if I was self-conscious
about, I don't know, my skin was like, like, oh, my skin's so bad. Like, or like, just, and you're
like, what? Like, you're like, you're like trying to see like what they're seeing, but you can't see
it. But they're like, so, so self-conscious about their nose. And you're like,
just like, like, I always make the jokes. And I was like, dude, like your personality is way
worse than your nose. Like, you need to go to a therapist and sort that shit out because like,
that's what will like improve your life. And like, I always make the joke because like,
they're a stunning person. They're incredibly stunning. And it's like, and but they're self-conscious
about this, this thing that like, if you were to like, if I was to like, if they're like something
on this face is a miss, and you have to point it out, I don't even think I picked the notes. Like,
there's probably like, I couldn't. So it's just amazing how like, you get your own
psychology can affect, you know, like no one else sees it, but you do.
Yes, exactly. Like, I was reading about how Ariana Grande apparently like, won't let you film on one
side of her face, like only the other. And I'm like, she is literally one of the most beautiful
human beings on the planet. Yeah, I like Google to see what that side of her face looked like.
Because I was like, maybe I haven't seen it. Maybe she is horrible on that side. And she just
doesn't like it. It's fine. Like it literally looks the same as the other side of her face.
But I know also that to her, there's a huge difference. There's just a huge difference.
Like if I part my hair on the other side, I'm a troll. I'm a terrible troll. It's just horrible.
Like it's just, it just doesn't nobody else would know. Nobody else would know. But I know,
and that's what matters, you know, that's it. Yeah. Do you ever like so, so like throughout my
like, I've used to be caught, you know, thinner when I used to ride my push bike every
ever when I was a teenager. And I slowly gained weight. And I always look back at photos of
myself and think like you, like, you were fucking ripped, dude, like back. And but then back then,
I was so self conscious about being overweight. And it gets worse every year. Like the more weight
I gain, I look back on like two years ago, I was so thin, but I thought I was the fastest thing
in the world. So it's like, you just like seeing yourself, I kind of part of me thinks like,
man, I'd love to have that experience where you just, you kind of like, you remove all
those biases that you have. Yeah, it's just wild. It's wild. I had kind of the opposite
experience. I was fat until I was like, in my 20s. So I had the issue where I always just
assumed I was still fat, like even when the numbers on the scale set something different,
even when my clothing sizes, I would look at myself and be like, no, you're still chubby,
you're still chubby, you're still chubby, even if like your whole body's not chubby,
your face is chubby. Like I had a guy once tell me, I used to work behind a front desk and he
said, he leans over the desk and he goes, oh, you're not fat. And I was like, what? And he goes,
he goes, you've got a face. Yeah, he goes, you've got a face. I just assumed you'd be fat. And I
was like, what? And he goes, no, no, it's a compliment. I'm saying you're not fat. I was
like, but I have a fat face. He said, no, no, your face says that you would be fat, but you're not
fat. Like he just kept going. I was like, but I always felt like I had like a gigantic like
marshmallow face. And so I've lost like 60 pounds since high school, perforated. That's funny. But
that was like the thing at the time I remember always being the problem was I always felt like
I was a lot big. And then in the mirror, I was like, oh, like I'm a normal looking human being,
like this is just proportional. Like I'm a proportional human. Yeah.
Just quickly talking about like, you know, and we should probably wrap up soon, but talking about
how you still remember the feeling of what it looked like looking at yourself. I still,
this is one, there's a few moments in my life where, you know, I was smoking weed. I had these
like, you know, memories of it. And I still remember first seeing the episode of Family Guy
steroids, where Stewie takes steroids. I still remember that being stoned and watching that
for the first time. And just, it was the perfect amount of stoned and watching on my laptop or
a friend's house. Like, and just, I just looking at these images, like I can't look them too long
without laughing. And it's not because it's funny, it is funny, but it's remembering how funny it
was. I couldn't believe. I just, I just, it's just, it's just incredible. Yes. Yes. Absolutely.
Like you'll never be able to recreate that when you watch it, but you'll always remember that time
that it was like that. Yeah. 100%. And MythVision, I just saw it was in the chat before. It's a,
it's great to see MythVision here. Actually, when I do the post faith, the, how the video edit,
I'll be editing videos of Kip Davis for MythVision. So I've been doing it for him,
helping me out and stuff. That's cool. Yeah. Yeah. It is. Derek is, we talk all the time,
like he's just an absolute legend of a person. So I have some, we didn't, we didn't even touch
a lot of the subjects I wanted to talk about, but I do have some questions to kind of round out this,
this interview and we can have you on again because this is fun. No parents, I promise.
So, so you're, you're no longer a believer. Your, your comedy has probably
informed that a lot, would you say? Like this has like helped you process that a little bit? Or
what would you say about that? I really don't talk about it much in my comedy at all. I think people
go to comedy shows to not be reminded of the struggles in their life. And so the last thing
I want to do is like trigger somebody who's going through it, you know, my, my comedy is mostly
about real life that I've been through, like family stuff, being from Arkansas, being from the South,
past relationships. I try to keep it just like roasting myself, talking about my life. I don't,
I don't like to bring anything in that people may be trying to escape. And that's why they
came to a comedy show. But it definitely, it's definitely influenced my writing for sure. Like
it's influenced the way that I write, I think. But has like the, has like be being a comedian,
a writer, a, someone who kind of looks at things like tries to find the, I guess the quirkiness or
the, the, the, the, the things inside of thinginess, like the, the things that like the moments, has
that helped you in deconstructing your faith? Like, have you, like, have you like looked at
something and going like, this is funny? Or have you looked at something and going like,
like, has it changed, has it changed your ability to deal with the heartbreaking part of losing faith?
Like, yeah, they always say that tragedy plus time equals comedy. So I think deconstructing and
looking back on how much of my religious indoctrination was totally completely screwed up
is hilarious to me as a person. I think it's so funny. I totally respect that other people
have been through that and they don't find it funny at all, which is why I don't really joke
about it much outside of my podcast where people are coming to find it, you know, they're coming to
look for it. But yeah, yeah, I think so. I think also, when you do comedy and you open yourself
up to so much criticism in person, online, on the internet and reviews, like just so much criticism
all the time, it's so much easier to take criticism about not believing in your faith when you're
like, Oh, thank God, it's not a personal attack this time. Like it's not, it's not just calling me
a fat ass, like they're actually just saying that I'm an atheist. Okay, great. And yeah, and so I
think it I think being in the field that I am in prepared me for what I was going to face being
openly non religious and being a content creator in a non religious space for sure helped a lot.
If this were the very first thing I'd ever done, I'd probably be going through it, you know, I'd
probably be having a much different experience. But so far, it's been the nicest time I've ever
experienced on the internet so far in my entire life. And your your show growing and funny,
like people need to subscribe and check it out. It's really good stuff, especially my episode
just so good. So there's a couple questions I always ask. And then I'll ask some more unique
ones. But what if anything, now that you're, you don't believe, what if anything would change your
mind? What would get you back to believe? Evidence? Facts? Okay, like, yeah, like people are always
right. Yeah, so religious people are always like, Well, what if you found out this wasn't true? What
if you found evidence to support that God was actually real? I'd be like, Okay, then I believe
in God. All I'm asking for is evidence. It's just nobody's given it to me. Isn't that like,
it shows where their motivations are? Like it shows that they're, they're not,
well, I feel like it does. It's that they're not approaching their belief system, like from facts
and logic, like, from evidence, they're kind of like, I choose this, like a sport team. And I go
for my sport team, no matter what. And they're actually telling on themselves that evidence
would not change their mind. Also, in a way, like, I don't think they realize that, but they're
telling on themselves that evidence doesn't matter to them at all. It's a, it's, you know,
and so yeah, no, if God like spoke to me, and I wasn't on shrooms, I'd be like, Oh,
shit, sorry about the podcast. Like, you know, I'd have questions too, for him. Yeah, exactly.
But there is, there's one thing I always hear from, and you can watch these debates on my
post faith channel, actually, where I've been violent to discord servers by Christians,
like, come join it and talk about Christianity. So I joined one once and I was like, and I was
like, yo, I messaged the models, like, yo, I'm an atheist, I'm going to jump in a room if anyone
wants to come and chat to me and ask about atheism. That's really cool. I record the conversation.
And the person who jumped on was like, yo, like, you know, I've, you know, God speaks to me, he
answers my questions. And I was like, cool. And I was like, so can you ask God a question for me?
And they're like, yeah, I'm like, just tell us what we need to know. What gene we need to look at
to solve cancer? Like, it's like, you could just, you could literally write out the chemical formula
and we could give it to scientists and solve cancer. And they're like, well, it doesn't work
like that. Well, why doesn't work like that? You say, God talks to you. Does God not want to heal
cancer? Like, it's, it's like, it becomes this very, well, he talks to me in numbers. He shows me,
I think she was like, I always see the number 57. And that means that he cares for me. And it's like,
what? Like, it's, um, yeah, it's not very specific. Like, can God not talk to you more specifically?
Yeah. And so it's my favorite thing to ask like, well, okay, well, if you believe God talks to
you, ask him something that we don't know, like, don't tell him to like point you to a scripture
that says like, all scriptures God breathed. So there's your answer or move to, you know,
I didn't know and God told me to look up Psalms, you know, 44, and it was exactly what I needed
to hear. It's like, don't know, I'm talking about like new information. Like, how do we solve this
problem with humanity? How do we like, you know, not like who to vote for, you know, like,
primary election or something like, right, in the Bible, he lit a bush on fire and his voice
came out and gave clear instruction. Can he, can his voice give me clear instruction? What
changed? Why did it work in the Bible for ancient people? But he doesn't talk to anybody now. He
gives like symbolic symbolism shapes and things that are supposed to matter. And something else
that kind of bothers me a little bit is we watch a ton of true crime in this house,
tons of true crime. And it will be something horrific. It'll be somebody who was stabbed and
cut up and kidnapped and kept alive in a basement for six months and then thrown off a bridge,
you know, blah, blah, blah, blah. And then the family at the end will be like, we're so grateful
to God that they were able to solve this cold case. And I always am like, where was God when
your child was being chopped up in a basement? Why are you grateful to God that 15 years later
DNA was able, you know, like paraben nanolabs was able to sign, find the killer because they
were able to find the DNA through 23andMe because their grand kid turned in the spit stick. But
you're not questioning at all where God was when your family member was being like chopped up and
set on fire. That just seems a little weird. Yeah, very weird, right? Yeah. So this is one more
fun one. What is the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in? Judaism.
Oh, why? Because they don't believe in hell or heaven. They just follow God's instruction because
that's what they're supposed to do while they're here on this earth. And to me, that makes a lot
more sense. Because it's like, if Christianity is true, then Judaism had to be true at some
set point. So it's like, you're just kind of like going back to first principles against like, well,
you know, let's like cut out that like Mormonism would have to be the least likely because it's
like Mormonism and then Christianity and then your three testaments just kind of then the one.
And I will say this, I don't like Calvinist scare me Calvinist scare me to death. But
their approach makes the most sense. So you're like, the Bible makes God look very vengeful. And
they're like, yeah. And you're like, but God like says one thing in one text and something else in
the other. Yep. Yeah. So you so he's like mean and he has a temper. Yeah. Yep. Did you like,
okay, to say like, at least they're just calling it, you know, some of the early like there was a
there was a Christian writer in, I think one, one something like, you know, early, early Christian
writing, Marcian of snow. Have you heard of him? No. So, so this is a this is a really interesting
subject and you should watch. There's a video I did called the lost diversity of Christianity.
It's really fascinating. So Christianity before the Bible was canonized in 400 AD 396 AD or something.
So through 350 years between have a Bible, they had, they there was wild diversity in
Christianity, like major sex. So I'm not talking about like wild people out in the desk. I'm
talking about like, Christianity was so diverse. And there was this guy called Marcian of Sonope,
and he had the Marcian church. And they rejected the Old Testament God, they said the Old
Testament God is an evil deity that Jesus came to save us from. And they said, and he wrote this
book called the antithesis, which was like, you're telling me the same God of Jesus that said the
little ones come to me is the same God that said go kill your Malachi and destroy kill every infant
unless they're a girl and then take them for yourself. Like, you're telling me that's the same
God, you're telling me like that, you know, like, and it was it was wild. Like, there was there was
the Christianity back then was just so diverse and weird. And like, like, I'm talking like,
just just some really wild, like some really weird beliefs, like beliefs like reincarnation and
all this stuff in Christianity, not like, again, these are weird sex. These are like,
this is what Christians believed. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Great question. A great answer, by the way,
and if money was no object, what would you do all day? Oh, man, if money was no object,
I would open a para rescue. Okay, probably interesting. Yeah, I would that or I would
just do more episodes of my podcast every day. Yeah, isn't that interesting? That's so
I would literally just like record more guests and like have episodes out like
scheduled out like a month in advance. Say what? Yeah. How good is that? Like,
obviously, if money was no, like for me, I would, I would, you know, I would go traveling and do
stuff like that. But I would be, I would like, if money was absolutely no object, it would just
ramp up what I'm already doing, which tells me I'm living a pretty good life. Like, I would be
doing big drinks, but it'd be like, in a purpose studio, and I'll be flying people out and like,
yeah, yeah, like I would have like, more foundations that I was like, doing, like donating
money to more often, I would have more guests, I would like, like you said, flying guests,
maybe have, you know, group interviews, stuff like that, maybe events, things like that. But
then on the side, I would open a para rescue. They were annoying today, but they're usually
pretty good. I do want to um, yeah, um, tell me a little bit about parrots, like you love parrots,
why? Love parrots. I love parrots. So, man, they're super intelligent, super duper smart.
There's a lot of people have no idea that they're some of the most emotionally intelligent
creatures on this planet. So like those two that were with me, I've had them since they were babies,
and they have like human type thoughts and ideas and needs and stuff. And so like, we have parrots,
we have eight parrots, and it's literally like having kids. There's a morning routine, there's a
night routine. As soon as I hang up here, I'm going to go do their night routine. They get a
snuggle, they get a song, they go to bed, they have a bedtime, they have like a very specific
diet they're supposed to follow. And they're so compassionate. So we have a lot of rescue birds,
those two tonight were not rescue birds, but they come to you with like the same kind of emotional
issues as if one day you woke up and you never saw your wife again, like devastation, terror,
like anxiety. They're so intelligent, they're so smart, because people think like, oh, they can
talk, I want to talk to them. But they bond with you like a spouse or like a child. They have like
very complex personalities and needs and things. And it's just amazing spending time with them.
It's amazing. Sometimes they're annoying, but they're just like little kids, like sometimes
they're so annoying. And you're like, why did that seem like a good idea? They're never, when it's
just us, they don't act like this. So we have one that's like, he came to us an emotional wreck,
because he had like mate bonded with his last owner before we rescued him. And watching him
emotionally adapt, for example, today, he turned his back on us for the first time ever.
And that means like he trusts us, he knows if he turns around, we're not going to hurt him.
He's never done that before. So now he looks out the window and he tweets at things out the
window and he calls out to birds out the window. Because for the first time since we've had him,
he can turn his back towards us and look out the window and feel safe and feel at home.
And he just little things like that, where you're just like, wow, this is just an amazing,
an amazing experience. And people have no idea that birds and parrots can be like that. They just
have no clue what an intellectual experience it could be. Yeah, I didn't know about that.
So I often think like, is it cruel to keep birds in cages? So they don't stay in cages,
we have an aviary. Yeah. Oh, okay, cool. Yeah. But like, we're not taking them out of the wild,
but with birds, are they distressed being in an aviary? Or do they want to travel? Do parrots
want to travel huge amounts of distances and things like that? Like is there ethics there?
The type of parrot matters. And the age of the parrot matters and where it came from matters.
So Eddie, the one who has like all the issues, he never leaves the aviary if you don't have him
step up on you and like take him out, he just stays in there. That's his little safe spot.
So we have like a big aviary, it's got like toys that they need enrichment. That's another thing
is like parrots can get bored and then they just destroy stuff just like a little kid. They're
smart, they need puzzles, they need toys, they need enrichment. So they we have an aviary that's
closed off from the rest of the house, but it's like a, it's a big space. So they all come out
of their cages every day, they spend all day, every day out of the cages. And they love to be in
there together. And if you notice, I brought the two in here to hang out with me. And after a while,
the other ones were like, Hey, where'd you go? Yadda de yadda. And they started calling back
like, I'm okay, we're good, we're in here. But when the other ones, the adopted ones get nervous,
they start calling a lot because they're like, where's our buddy? We've been taken from a family
before. Where's our buddy? Where'd he go? So I actually adopt birds and like raise, try to raise
money for these rescues and stuff to get people to not get birds. Because they live so long. So
the conures I had earlier in here, we have four of them, they live about 30 years. So I'm going to
be retired by the time those birds pass away. But some of them live 80, 90 years, 100 years. And so
people don't understand that like, even if you get a bird and you take the best care of it,
and it has the best life ever, when you die, somebody else gets that bird and they may not
take care of it for the last 40 years of its life. Like they may not feed it the right diet and have
a big cage for it. And they don't understand the routine that you have, right? Like I have a little
routine with my birds, if I were to drop dead, like, who would do the routine, right? Vince would do
the routine. But like if something happened to us, you know, and so like, even if you're the best
bird owner ever, the average parrot has three owners in its lifetime, because it's going to
outlive you, then it's going to outlive who takes it from you. And then it's probably going to
outlive that third person if it doesn't end up in a rescue for the rest of its life. And so I love
birds. And so people are like, Oh, I bet you think everybody should get birds. And I'm like,
actually, no, don't get them. And people think, Oh, adopt, don't shop. And it's like, well, adopt
because I can go to a rescue right now and get a parrot that's 60 years old. And I'll still have
it for 20 years. I'll still be with this bird. Yeah. And they like, you can tell by looking at it,
they like pull out their hair. So a lot of times, like, you'll see a bird at a rescue that's just
bald. It's just, it looks like a lion. It's got like fur or like hair or feathers or whatever,
depending on what kind of bird it is. And then it's just bald, because it got stressed out. And
it just pulled out all of its feathers. Oh, yeah. So like, working with parrots can be one of the
most devastating things you ever do in your life, or one of the most rewarding things you can do
in your life, like love birds, love birds, I will keep adopting birds forever.
Chickens are like, I think chickens, we grew up with chickens and stuff. And, you know, they're
really smart, like you can, they can remember up to like 300 faces, like and stuff like that,
like it's, it's, it's, it's, it's crazy. Do you know, fun fact, they worked out one of the ways
they, so there's un-finding dinosaur fossils with feathers, and they were like, oh, damn,
like, like, birds are essentially dinosaurs that have just evolved to be smaller. Yeah, like not
well, there's avian dinosaurs. Yeah. So, but what's one of the ways they proved that is they went back
through the DNA and they found like the DNA for teeth, and they made a chicken that grew with
teeth, so that they turned back the DNA on that would make a chicken grow teeth. So it's like,
yeah, I know, crazy, right? I am, I missed this, just, just quickly, I missed a super chat, I killed
it all. Thank you so much for the super chat. I totally didn't see it. Out of consideration for
your liver, I highly recommend Lagunitas Hot. Oh, Lagunitas, yeah. Oh, Lagunitas, I feel sparkling
and refreshing, much like your guest cheers. Oh, I had no idea that Lagunitas made a sparkling
water, like a sparkling, oh, I'm guessing it's like, hot water, interesting. Now, I killed Earl,
correct me if I'm wrong, isn't Lagunitas from Chicago? Isn't that where it's made?
That's, I'm pretty sure. I think it is. I think Lagunitas is from Chicago. Sounds like a fancy
American thing. I think so, I could be wrong, because I know everybody in Chicago drinks it,
but I don't remember if it's just because they're hipsters or if it's because it's from Chicago,
I'm not sure. And just to round out with what you, we'll wait for,
well, they said, I had six sea chickens, two of them loved to be held, and was super affectionate,
yeah. Yeah, one of the saddest moments I've ever had was I went to a pet store to cuddle the little
conure there. We have a pet store we go to, I like to cuddle little conures, and I was cuddling
this little bird and these PETA people were like, what are you doing? And I was like, well, I'm
cuddling the bird. I'm cuddling the parrot. We had no idea you could cuddle parrots. People had no
idea. Aaron, Aaron Raw has a story about a bird. He got a conure, just like mine, who the people
had had it, I think he said for 11 years, they had no idea you could let a bird out of its cage.
For 11 years, that bird was just in the cage, just sitting there on one little stick, just existing.
Like that's nightmare. That's like torture. Yeah, torture. Yeah.
One of the things, yes, Chicago, cool. One of the things that, just going back to this question,
so you mentioned about how they have empathy and sadness, and they feel things. One of the things
that actually helped me, one of my friends, uncle's died, and I was talking about it,
one of the things that helped him, and helps me when I'm grieving someone who's died,
is I found out this really interesting fact about animals, specifically about elephants,
and that is like, when elephants die, I'm actually getting a tattoo of an elephant,
one of the first very reason. When an elephant dies, the whole clan or mob or whatever you call
them, the group of elephants, I've got what it's actually called, will mourn the death of that
deceased individual, so much so that if you take the body away, and they travel 500 miles in one
direction and come back, they will come back, they will stop at that spot, they know where their
previous person has died, and they'll mourn, they'll wait there for a while, they'll have a moment of
silence, and they'll continue on. And it's like, damn, realising that not even the animal kingdom
escapes that pain of losing a loved one, and it made me feel so much more connected.
Like, you know there's that scripture in the Bible, it's like, your brothers all around the
world, your brothers and sisters around the world will be persecuted just like you, and it was like,
oh, I'm in this together. That's how I feel now with the evolutionary biology. It's like,
there are thinking, feeling creatures. I can tell when my puppy, when my beagle is depressed,
when he hasn't been for a walk in a couple of days, he's like, just a bit down in the dumps,
and you take him out for a walk, and then you bring him back, and he's over there sitting on
the pillow, and he's looking at you like, he just can't stop looking at you, because he's just so
like, you feel him with such good emotions, because you've done something that he likes to do, which
is go for a walk, and you've spent a lot of time with him. And it's like, it's probably one of the
reasons I'm a vegetarian, actually, now, because I've gotten really like, emetic those animals,
but it's like, it's like, yeah, it's like, then you look at me like, Dan, there's, there is such a,
not even animals escape grief. And that, that was something that like, helped me a lot in, in
realizing like, truly, parents are the same way, they literally mourn Eddie, for the first like,
weeks that we had him, shrieked at the top of his lungs nonstop, because he was so upset that
he'd been removed from what he felt like was his mate, he had like, mate bonded with his last owner,
he was just devastated, just screaming all the time. And like, yeah, they, they literally mourn
your absence, they mourn your death. And that's why I tell people, I'm like, don't compare it,
not because they're not amazing, they're amazing creatures, because they will mourn you when they
outlive you, they will mourn your absence, they'll mourn your death, they will and, and so much about
parents is watching body language. And I've, I've noticed, I was just talking about this last night,
as we've gotten parents, we've started treating human beings a lot differently,
because with parents, everything is about body language, everything is about like consent,
about like science, you know, if they don't want to be petted, if they don't want to be,
if they're cranky, all of a sudden, a lot of times you can figure it out, it's like, they
didn't get enough sleep, they didn't get enough time out, like there's a reason why and it,
and once you've gotten it down to a science with each of your separate parents with their
separate individual personalities, you find yourself doing that with people a lot. You're
like, oh, so and so is in a bad mood. It's like, okay, why is something going on at home? Did they
have a long night last night? And you just find yourself being so much more empathetic to other
human beings when you take the time to like read the body language and the signs and be like, okay,
something else is going on, they're not just being a dick, there's a reason they're being a dick.
And it's just very interesting, it's weird how animals can make you
empathize with human beings a little bit more. I didn't know you're a vegetarian, that's cool.
Yeah, I mean, like, I'll have a bunch, like, am I getting hate from both sides? Like,
the vegans will hate me and the meat eaters will hate me. I called my elderly pup died three weeks
ago, I'm so, so sorry to hear that. That's so sad. His brother stung his collar, it's tragic,
I'm sorry, sorry. That happened. It's, you know, one of my puppy, we had a we had a beagle named
Butters from South Park Butters. And, and he was four and a half years old. And well, four years
old. And he was, we started nursing lumps in his neck. And it was like, it was the rarest form of
lymphoma that ever seen dogs, not even textbooks had it. There was four of the dogs in the world
that had this type of lymphoma ever. And of course, yours had to get it. Yeah, we sent his test,
like his, his test results to UCLA in America cost us like 700 bucks. But because of COVID,
they had to scan everything. And then the radiation from the scan has killed the sample. And like,
it was wild. But it was really horrible. And we came back from a, we came back from a weekend away.
And the steroids were, they'll grow the size of like, tennis balls in his neck. And the steroids
will keep them down. But eventually we got to the dose where the steroids made him angry all the
time. But we got to the stage where we knew there's like, we're getting to the maximum dose. And we
came home on weekend, and he just had all this liquid in his chest, like moving around under
his skin, bring him to the hospital. And they said, look, he doesn't have any days left. Right.
Give him the last good days, we bring him home. They said, the last thing to go will be his eating,
he's a beagle. We brought him home KFC, we went and got popcorn chicken, and we'll give him popcorn
chicken. And he spat it out. And that night, we decided, okay, the food was the last thing to
go. And the process of like, driving him to the hospital and like, putting down our four and a
half year old first, first dog was like, the, I still, I still cry about it. Like, I still,
yeah, I went through six months of grinding my teeth at night. So I killed it all. Like, I'm,
you know, it's, it's, it's different to say, it's different when, you know, a puppy lives,
like a dog lives to old age, great, they live a good life. That's awesome.
Still, still fucking hard. And I'm so sorry this happened. Right. But I will say props to you for
giving him a dignified death. I think we've all met that person who keeps their dog alive for
themselves, because they can't let go. And the dogs last few years are just like the worst thing
we've ever seen. Because they just won't let it go. Yeah. Well, he was like, he was like,
like struggling, he's like, he was struggling to breathe because the, so he was like, he was,
he was like, he needed to, he needed to go. Like he would just be on the type of hours.
Yeah. Zilla, my dog right here, she's 15. And so like,
and she's fine, but I'm at that spot where like, if anything happened, I'd be like,
every time we go to the vet, I'm like, she's 15, be ready for whatever she's 15, be ready. And
like you said, it's different when a dog is like 15 years old. It's like, she's lived a good life,
you know, as opposed to like a little kid or a little baby. Oh, heart failure, she says.
Yeah. I killed her. Reginald had congestive heart failure. He was doing all right. Then
suddenly he couldn't work back home. Three days later, he was gone. 14 happy years. Well, I'm
great. 14 years is that's a long time. You lived a happy life. I hope to see, you know,
I hope to see you on tomorrow's stream. If you want to come on and chat, you don't have to put
your camera on if you don't want to. But yeah, I'd like to get some or you guys more. So yeah,
I hope to see you guys on tomorrow's stream. It's kind of a sad note to end on, but
parents are great. They're a lot of fun. I can tell you some really funny things they do.
They're brilliant, amazing animals. Go watch this comedy special.
My bagel takes my socks and runs away like all happy. So like, you know, there's some fun things
as well. Yeah. One of my parents told me to go fuck myself the other day because it's been in the
room when I've been watching Better Call Saul. So there's that. That's so good.
Just Better Call Saul is a great show. I haven't finished it or gotten too far in it.
But just so everyone's aware, it is tomorrow. So it's in 20 hours from now. So it's at 8 30
in the morning tomorrow for me. So this stream started at 10 a.m. for me. So an hour and a half
or four, this stream started and the stream is going for two hours. So whatever time that is
tomorrow, six, six, six. Yeah, about that time. Yeah.
If you click on the YouTube channel from wherever you live, it'll tell you in your
time what time it starts. Yeah. If you click on the link I just shared in the chat,
everyone who's a member or a Patreon supporter, you're welcome to join. I know a lot of people
were gifted memberships, but you totally, of course, still welcome to join. Everyone who's a
member, there's a link. You'll be able to see it. Well, thank you so much, Sydney, for coming on.
This has been a fantastic sitting day. We didn't even get to the junior junior and your crazy
family history. I have to do it another time, but I'm sure we will. Thank you for coming on.
Is there anything you'd like to say before we wrap up the interview?
So I know I've been talking about Paris all the time, but I have a line of merch. You can find
it on the Facebook page. You can find it on the website growingupfundypodcast.com. It's called
Budgment Day. And if you buy anything from the Budgment Day line, it's got a budgie on it. He
looks satanic. If you buy anything from the Budgment Day line, that money goes to support
parrot rescues. So even if you don't want to parrot yourself, I'm raising money for the rescues
that provided our parrots to us. It's very important. Oh, no. It's simply like, I'll post it now so we
can look at the zones quickly. Is that hilarious? Let's see here. Pull it up real quick. Yeah,
it's through. I think it's, I always want to call it band camp, but that's not what it is. It's,
it's, oh, let's see here. Click on it real quick. Here it is. I'll send you the link real quick.
Yeah, we have the basics, but the Budgment Day line right here. It's the second. I'll send you
the link. Where'd you send it? Yeah, let's see. There it is. And yeah, it's the picture on the
front is actually one of our rescues. He's actually really nice, but he looks satanic. But yeah,
the proceeds to that go to parrot rescues. And then also, there's an option when you're checking
out to add an additional, an additional donation as well. So there you go, the Budgment Day.
Yes. And actually that idea, I owe that idea to secular rarity, because I sent him that picture
and he said, I feel like that bird knows when my Budgment Day happens, my Judgment Day happens.
And I said, Oh, what about Budgment Day? And then I made it merge. So there's hoodies, there's t-shirts,
you can pick different colors. There's a crew neck. So any, and that's a, that's one of our little
rescue budgies. So that money goes for a good cause. You should send me a, like a front view
of a budgie and I'll try and make a terminal to post around about or something. That's hilarious.
Budgies are from Australia. I don't know if you knew that. I found that out recently. I do not know
that. They're from Australia. That's very interesting. Cool. There you go. All right.
Thanks everyone for hanging out. And thanks city for coming on. It's been amazing. And
we'll talk to you guys later. See you guys tomorrow for the chill out stream. It will be very low
key. I mentioned this on a post where I'm pumping the brakes a little bit for the next couple of
weeks. I'm going away on a family holiday. We've got Arden Hart coming on in that time. And
the amount of episodes are going to like trickle down until about June 24th. And that's when we
have Dr. Kip Davis coming on. And then from there, we're ramping up. I just quit my job.
I'm starting a new job. I'm going on a holiday. I'm changing my office around. There's lots of
stuff going on. But it is going to like this channel is going to blow up. I'm so excited for
that. Over the next year, we're going nuts. I got some plans in the work. I've just spent
six and a half thousand dollars on some camera equipment. I'm going to be doing some in-person
stuff. It'll be really cool. Documentaries hopefully. And just look forward to some good
things. But it will be a bit quieter for the next so long. We might be able to do a community
stream here and there. But yeah, see you all guys tomorrow. And oh, Kip Davis. Kip Davis is here.
Yeah, there he is. Yeah, I can't wait to. We're going, Kip and I are going to be talking about
apologetics. And we're going to, we're going to get the venom out. We're going to be getting the
venom out because I'm going on, I'm going on a whole anti-apologetics arc because I, I believe
it's philosophically dishonest. We'll get that. Why? Why do you think that, David? Well, let me,
let me build a strong case. Not, am I going to be spicy? It's still deep drinks.
But I'm going to, I'm going to, and I'm hopefully have some apologists on discuss this, but
Kip Davis will kick off the whole anti-apologetics arc for deep drinks. So see you guys. This will
be, it's going to be an awesome, see you guys later. Bye. Bye.
