Hey everyone, welcome to Deep Drinks, the deepest podcast on the internet.
Today we have a very special guest.
When I was a Pentecost Christian, I had this perspective that the way that the whole Christian
movement worked was Jesus came, he lived, he died on the cross, he was resurrected and
then on the day of Pentecost, a short time after, the Holy Spirit came down in tongues
of fire and the great wind and gave the disciples the power of the Holy Spirit in which they
could go and preach and lay on of hands and do miracles and speak in tongues and that
continued all the way up until, you know, Brian Houston and Hillsong Christianity and
this is one continuous line of true Christian disciples but and that was even despite the
fact that heretical churches like the Catholic Church and other Orthodox and Anglican churches
came along, these true Christian trailblazers were just sailing along the whole time speaking
in tongues and laying on of hands and spreading the gospel through the power of the Holy Spirit.
But today we have a very special guest that will be talking about a very different history
of Christianity and this will be a shorter episode but it's going to be a fun episode.
So that said, let's get started.
Today my guest is Elle Hardy, an Australian-born journalist, usually based in New Orleans.
She has reported extensively on the stories in the United States and the former Soviet
Union among other places.
Credits include The Guardian, The Times, GQ, Business Insider, Monocle, Foreign Policy,
Vice, ABC and Learnly Planet.
She has written a book which I think is amazing called Beyond Belief, how Pentecostal Christianity
is taking over the world.
Her research for Beyond Belief took her to Guatemala, Brazil, Nigeria, South Africa,
Mozambique, South Korea, Israel, United States, United Kingdom and Australia.
I'd like to welcome a very special guest, Elle Hardy.
Thank you so much for coming on.
Thanks for having me.
So I have a little confession to make.
I've got a list of people that are like my wish list of people I want to interview and
it's a secret list, not everyone knows about this list but you're on that list.
You're someone I've wanted to interview for a long time.
I didn't reach out to actually for a long time because I wanted to make sure a deep
drinks was at a place that I thought best honored, I guess, what the work you do and
the status that you have.
So thank you so much for coming on because this is a real pleasure for me because I find
your book absolutely amazing.
It's great to be here.
So we've only got a short time and you've got a hard out but I wanted to quickly just
ask why did you write your book?
So how did you first get involved in the whole idea of writing about Pentecostal Christianity?
I'm very much for accident, to be honest.
I was in Waco, Texas a few years ago doing a story on the John School movement which
became one of the chapters in the book and which really got me researching the movement.
So the John School movement is in Texas, there's some legislation, it's all around the United
States and other countries but it's really big in Texas due to some certain legislation
and it's essentially rehabilitation schools for guys who are court soliciting sex for
the first time.
It's prostitution is illegal almost everywhere in the United States outside of a small part
of Vegas and yeah and so Christian groups and particularly Pentecostal based groups
have really been leading the charge in setting up these schools and they really have an outsize
moral and social effect and that's sort of a lot of the case with modern Pentecostalism
but it was in the course of researching this and being allowed into one of these schools
by a group and I found out that they were disciples of Christine Kane who's a Hillsong
alumni from Australia and they sort of let me in because I was Australian but they didn't
really want me around and it was kind of because of that connection with Kane and her organization.
And yeah just the more I researched and spoke to some of the great academics doing work
in this field I realized that it's a story the global Pentecostal movement that is is
a story that's really gone under the radar you know particularly for you know secular
liberal kind of big city newsroom journalists like myself.
A lot of people just haven't seen that there's this massive religious movement going on
around the world you know six to seven hundred million people at Pentecostal now worldwide
it'll be one in ten people a billion people it'll be Pentecostal by 2050 this is a faith
that had about six percent of global Christians in 1980 it's now close to a third and that's
obviously really significant and having some some really significant effects almost anywhere
you look in the world and I think it's a story that just hasn't been told widely enough.
Yeah and it is a wild story that let me tell you I saw in an interview yesterday that your
favorite chapter in your book was the 10th chapter about Guatemala in this and is that
right and I'll get that right you said you said the word I think it's the most meaningful
but yeah I do like my UK chapter as well but yeah the Guatemala chapter means a lot to me.
It's you think of Pentecostal Christianity as like as Hillsong as what you see in like
Sydney or New York and you're part of an amazing documentary Hillsonger mega church
exposed and you think of it as just like this welcome home this friendly movement but in
third world nations where you've kind of went to it's setting people on fire can you talk a
little bit about that chapter of your book and and how Pentecostalism is kind of impacting
these these communities of third world nations. Sure I mean I wouldn't say that it's its expression
is entirely murderous in in the developing world of course not of course not not the
characterization I mean it is it's the faith of the developing world it's the faith of the
world's working poor it is I think it's something very hard for people in Western countries to
square with their conception of religion which is that you know it's it's it's becoming more
and more of a minority and it just doesn't really play a huge role in in a lot of people's lives
whereas in the developing world it does it's often you know it dominates in many places
dominates political discourse people talk about spiritual warfare very openly in places like
Nigeria even if they're not Pentecostal themselves and Guatemala is another place where Christianity
and particularly Pentecostalism is really infused in daily social life and political life and
economic life but but what's happening in in Guatemala is very interesting because it it
does appear to me to sort of be a long tale of the dirtiest of Latin America's dirty wars you know
that took place in the 80s and and sort of yeah 70s 80s and and there's been a spate of assassinations
of traditional Mayan healers and traditional Mayan priests and I went out there in 2021 I think
yeah 2021 to investigate the murder of a Mayan priest or Mayan healer Domingo Chocche and he
had been set on fire in a very remote village very remote indigenous village out in the the
northeast of the country and he had had a you know some quarrel with some townspeople and there was
also a lot of tension between himself and the local church he was a very highly esteemed healer
he had a he knew a lot about traditional Mayan rituals and ways of healing and a lot of this
stuff had had to go underground during the civil war and once again Guatemala had the had the most
brutal of all the civil wars that went on around that region so to say it was unpleasant is to say
the least and he was really reviving these ancient practices that were going to be lost because so many
people had stopped practicing openly stopped teaching their children um stopped you know
practicing in public that they risked you know these centuries and centuries and millennia of
traditions um risks risk dying out so he was really at the forefront of of trying to bring
these back to life and in the the course of the quarrel in his town he was accused of witchcraft
which is something being very heavily promoted by the Pentecostal churches out there as well as
some Catholic churches too and and when I'm talking about Pentecostal churches in that part
of the world many are also part of the charismatic Catholic renewal which is a bit weird to get your
head around but these are Catholic churches that are essentially Pentecostalizing to say relevant
but but I would consider them within more within the the Pentecostal movement than the Catholic
um but then what's really happened with with what they would call evangelicals coming into the
country is that um a lot of the cycle of um of sin and forgiveness has really changed
and Catholicism long had an accommodation with traditional mind beliefs and it was quite
syncretic um whereas since the evangelicals came to town in this particular town I think it was in
the late 60s early 70s an American evangelical couple came out and as with the rest of the country
it rapidly wound up Pentecostalizing following the 1976 earthquake and then the election of
a Pentecostal prime minister who oversaw the bloodiest part of the civil war um Jeff general
Efrain Rios Mont this has really changed their their very concept of Christianity and I mean is
there anything bigger than you know the the cycle of sin and forgiveness and as one person put it
to me it just sort of overturned a lot of the moral framework and they said you know with the
evangelicals you can sin can sin today and be forgiven tomorrow and um and this is behind this
is some of the spiritual conception that's behind some of the these murders that it's
you know you're in a holy war it's part of the greater good if you just get rid of this guy and
then you know sort of sort of go to church tomorrow and and ask for forgiveness everything's
going to be okay and and a great part of the um the reason why the Pentecostals are really really
against the traditional healers and the traditional priests is um they're they're getting into the
Pentecostal market and and basically the the big business and a big part of why people are
converting to the Pentecostal faith in Guatemala and Latin America and almost anywhere in the
developing world and the United States as well actually is for healing it is for healthcare
when you don't have state healthcare when you um haven't got the money to see a doctor um often
churches in the end of the game in town and Pentecostals from the very beginning have always
offered faith healing as a very very important part of their faith and and it's such a big reason
why people are converting and so to have another form of spirituality also offering healing um is
seen as as competition that is um and it's characterized by by many people within the
in these churches as as demonic and as you know part of the holy war and um and you know they're
prepared to kill for these beliefs yeah and it's um and when I said that Pentecostal was
setting people on fire it was very hyperbolic but I will say it seems to be a like a knock-on
effect there's like the the thought process um at least how I read from your book it seems to be
like a knock-on effect that there's this cultural what it seems to be going on because of the um
the the the thought processes behind Pentecostalism uh in in these areas I just to just to um uh
express something that uh do you know of Pepe Julian Ornzema from Uganda here's he comes from
that meme why are you gay um you are gay so Ugandan um okay it's a Ugandan uh that would
have sounded really funny if you didn't he's a trans man he's a trans man uh in Uganda and
um he he works for sexual minorities Uganda and they just passed laws that essentially made it so
homosexuality is punishable for up to 10 years and a death penalty if you get caught more than once
um or multiple times for serial homosexuality and um what I found interesting is when I interviewed
him we had to interview him in secret because his life was literally at risk just for being trans
there and um and saw my patreon but essentially what I found was super interesting is no one was
okay no one was had anything an issue with homosexuality in Uganda like a couple hundred
years ago they had a gay bisexual king there were tribes and clans that had like uh different
different gender identities um groups of different gender identities in fact he was part of one of
those groups um and then it was actually a big push from Pentecostal like missionaries and evangelical
missionaries that were coming over they were pushing this message first it started with colonialism
colonialism and the sodomy laws that came with that but then eventually it got it got more and more
hectic and I just see that I just saw such a mirror image of that in when I read that chapter of your
book um it just seemed so maybe I'm reading into it too much but that's just definitely something
that I saw it's like wow that it looks like these other communities get affected so strongly by this
by evangelicalism Pentecostalism uh so I didn't even introduce what we're what we're drinking so
you chose to drink margaritas and for me it's seven in the morning and I decided to pour myself
an alcoholic margarita I've got to go to work after this that's totally cool so I've got my margarita
and I was I was wondering if uh if you could give us a bit of a history lesson on where Pentecostalism
started because like I said at the start I thought it was just when I was a I was a pastor and I
thought this I thought that it just went from like the day of Pentecostal right up until he'll you
know Brian Houston is running his little church and his and his grandfather's uh wise grandfather
so can you give us a little uh explanation about where Pentecostalism actually started
the last vomit of Satan sure um yeah unfortunately I can't drink because I've got another interview
after this so I'm just I'm just on soda water but okay that's okay yeah so Pentecostalism really
came out of 19th century America um you know this is a time when you know they're they're
moving towards the frontier um there are lots of campgrounds they were their great awakenings
prophets and priests roaming the countryside getting all sorts of different ideas you know this is a
you know largely migrant um country so you're getting people bringing all sorts of ideas from
all parts of the world and and really you know changing as they moved on and you know there's
obviously no no internet no radio things like that so so ideas are moving very slowly and
getting time to change and embed and and learn from from people as they you know literally
rode on horseback um across you know to to the next place and you know this is where where Mormonism
you know came out of you can see some parallels there um the civil war women were preaching there
was just so much happening so many people died it was it was a pretty grim time so I think it's
really important to understand that context in in where it really sprung up um Pentecostalism itself
is considered founded by William J. Seymour he was a black man he's the son of freed slaves from
Louisiana um not too far from where I live and he is said to have sort of founded for want of a
better word Pentecostalism in 1906 at what's called the Azusa Street revival in Los Angeles
I actually think that there's a fairly credible case that um you know he was really the protege of
the guy who um who had an outsize effect on on his on his thinking and then it's probably
there's a bit more credit I don't know if credits are right word but I think we can really trace it
back to his mental um Charles Fox pyrum and um and you know it's really interesting that the white
guy um you know it's kind of that that the black son of freed slaves um is you know considered
that the founder and the white guy has kind of written out of history a bit but um Fox pyrum
was a renegade Methodist preacher he was kicked out of the church he was very focused on the Holy
Spirit and on healing um he had he and his young son were often very sick and so it was very important
to him um he was a very good preacher very charismatic he could clock 250 words a minute
but but yeah the the Methodist hierarchy ended up kicking him out in the in the late 19th century
and he went on to to form his own um healing home called called Beth the healing home he was really
interested in harnessing the power of the Holy Spirit and and the gifts of the Holy Spirit so
that the nine gifts prophesied in the Bible healing prophecy divination speaking in tongues all that
stuff so he and a small group of followers had an all night vigil on New Year's Eve of 1901 and
they were praying they they believed you know what was written in the Bible that if they just stayed
up and fasted and prayed that the Holy Spirit would come in their congregation and eventually that
night it did it came to a woman called Agnes Osmond and she began babbling um for for want of a
better word um in what I think they thought at the time was Chinese and they really thought that
she was you know speaking in tongues which is speaking in the language of foreign nations and
to be able to go out and convert them and eventually over the next few days the Holy Spirit descended
I think on on most of the congregation including Parham himself and you know he was absolutely
thrilled um by by this discovery and you know sort of going up and down Kansas and Oklahoma
and Texas and telling people about it and he was largely derided in the newspapers they thought
he was mad they thought it was you know they thought of a babbling tower of Babel um but he
did continue to get a small following he was a pretty compelling character if not a particularly
nice one and he wound up teaching classes about his particular bent on faith in Houston and it was
there that that young William J. Seymour was coming to his classes and and learning his his vision
and his Christian beliefs and it was due to Jim Crow laws at the time Seymour wasn't even allowed
in the classroom he had to take his instruction out in the hallway while the white men sat inside
and he and Parham were very very different characters but but they saw something in each other
and they used to go out preaching together on the streets so so Parham had preached the
whites and Seymour had preached to the blacks and Seymour was was very all in on on Parham's vision
he was eventually asked to to go and um pastor a church in Methodist church in Los Angeles
where while the pastor was away for um on on business for a while and he went up there and
was pretty promptly physically locked out of the church you know they they thought he was spouting
madness but he did have a small following and they did move into an abandoned church um
it was the African Methodist church um in where where the Azusa street revival happened which is
in modern downtown Los Angeles today that there's a small park for it um and and once again like
Parham's people did they they stayed up for days fasting and praying and eventually the spirit
started to come on the congregation people you know falling around rolling around on the ground
just being completely slain in the spirit people getting the power of healing people speaking in
tongues all those things and the fact that it happened in a much bigger city um you know Los
Angeles is very cosmopolitan especially compared to to Kansas um and it was you know it was it was
it was a melting pot it was a place where were internal migrants and migrants from all over
the world were coming for the opportunities um so there was a very vibrant media market um and so
it made the newspapers pretty quickly and the interesting thing that happened was it made
the newspapers the same day as the San Francisco earthquake and this at the time a lot of people
were still very pre-millennial so they believed that you know they were going to there was going
to be some big earthquake or flood or something like that and then Jesus is back and and people were
were very you know people were real true believers and you know the Christianity back them as was much
more widespread in terms of people's understanding of it but also just in their their straight up
beliefs and so a lot of people took it very seriously and they saw it in the paper they saw
the earthquake and they put two and two together and people started going into this you know strange
church they were very fascinated by what was going on women and men were able to sit side by side
people of all races were sitting side by side it was very expressly unsegregated you know women
were getting up and preaching Mexicans were getting up and preaching black people white people
whoever was was feeling the moment um were were involved and and Seymour himself was a very pious
figure a very quiet man um Jesus is like if you would uh he wasn't really rubbing people up the
wrong way except if they didn't like his beliefs and and more and more people from across America
and and all over the world kept coming curious to see it and there is something incredible about
these revivals they they never tend to last longer than three years and there is just something about
going to that room and feeling the energy of the spirit that just seems to capture a lot of people
so people would go into you know just rub an egg to have a look and then you know find themselves
suddenly speaking in tongues so it had a hugely powerful effect and and from there it just spread
like wildfire it spread out across the United States in the world and there was also I think
there was just something eerie in the air around there there were all sorts of revivals
happening around the world there was a Welsh revival in 1905 so you know before this even
happened um there was Pyongyang revival in 1907 where there appeared to be some potential contact
with um the Christianity coming out of Los Angeles but no definitive proof um I think there
were revivals in South Africa stuff there was something in the air um and and this new
bent on faith really took on a significance I think it it spoke to a more modern expression of
Christianity um and and that's always been part of the Pentecostal story it looks and sounds and
feels like the local culture and and the local times and wherever you are it tends to have more
meaning to you than a traditional Catholic church or church of England or Methodism or or anything
hmm you you are there's uh that you mentioned Agnes uh Osmond uh and this is the writings that
she wrote down that they thought was Chinese and you said in the book that she was stuck like this
for three days not being able to speak English is that right uh if it's in the book yeah I can't
remember exactly that that's what the historical documents seem to say yeah that's um that's crazy
we've only got about 15 minutes left but I do want to um quick shout out guys go check out the
book link is in the description it's also pinned it's an amazing book I really like it also you
can follow ellie uh ell sorry I have a friend called ellie I apologize uh ell um it's about the same
ell on twitter and also you have a um a podcast called false prophets which I haven't checked out
yet but I'm sure it's gonna be awesome and coming up in a couple days we have uh uh not so conformant
to come on to talk about ISI 53 it's going to be an awesome episode uh I want to um because we've
got such a short amount of time um it's not actually not sure but but um I've just got so many questions
for you but one of the questions I wanted to ask is I was blown away by a recent article that you
wrote so and I wanted to kind of get your perspective about about it so you talk about the spiritual
warfare deliverance demons and exorcisms and you went to these to essentially you went to these
meetings is that correct can you tell us a little bit about the guardian article that you just um
recently wrote I'll link it in the description so people can have a check it out um link it in
the uh comments but can you tell us a little bit about that about the demonic um deliverance
is that any that you that you went and and actually took part in right um yeah so there's a group down
in uh phoenix arizona called the arizona deliverance center well they called they called hardcore
christianity and I think they practice it that the arizona deliverance center but it's kind of
interchangeable um and yeah they're practicing spiritual warfare which is a pentecostal based
doctrine that's really taking off around the world um and and as I mentioned you know in these um
developing developing world countries and in the united states where where people just don't have
access to affordable health care um often often faith healings you own the game in town and this
is a place that that that really does engages in a lot of that um so yeah they they have a very
particular form of beliefs that's kind of cobbled together from from the leader brother mike smith's
own experiences and some things that he's read they're very explicit that they're not a church that
they are a deliverance center um and I think that this is quite telling and quite a story that we're
seeing a lot in in modern pentecostalism and I think we'll see more of these people moving away
from specific churches and to various groups that speak to their certain needs they don't have to be
pastors they don't have to be a formal church it's um just something you know people finding their
guy online and and really embracing it um so yeah there's just a questionnaire that you do so it can
be everything from you know uh well they they will call um any sort of physical or mental
sickness a manifestation of of having demons inside of you or bad spirits um so you have this
questionnaire and you might say like I have you know it can be anything from anxiety to
having suffered childhood sexual abuse it's it's very broad um and and obviously um
I suppose you'd say unscientific um and yeah you go through the questionnaire and then they
help you get the demons out so they believe that it comes through the breath um it comes through
spitting vomiting uh breathing out um and yeah it's it's a fairly uh it's a fairly intense
um class or or deliverance that you go through um and uh yeah you know a guy next to me vomited
he was suffering from schizophrenia um uh there's all sorts of um zoom chats that they do that I
went on quite a few of those and there were people um suffering with all sorts of problems
but but the really common theme was um chronic chronic disease it was it was people who basically
you know couldn't afford their their healthcare and the things that they needed to treat these
chronic ailments so there's a lot of people with arthritis a lot of people with diabetes who just
can't afford the insulin because it costs hundreds a month in the US a lot of people with mental
health problems that might not you know want to be on the antidepressants or can't afford them
so it's a pretty grim state of affairs and um you know the groups um really speaking to a very
you know to a working poor very diverse I'd say majority non-white crowd um you know I mean they're
they're very well intentioned I'd say um obviously you know I think that we've you know we've moved
on a bit from faith healing but but it's a really fascinating insight into what people are seeking
in in their faith and in their religious practice these days and and once again you know faith is
the only game in town um I think not to question anyone's personal spiritual beliefs but I think
it's become very clear in some in some places that a lot of people might need to lean on their faith
because they can't afford not to yeah you mentioned in that that you were you you uh did it right like
you did the confessions and everything like you wrote down some confessions of yourself
is that right or did I read that wrong yeah yeah I mean it wasn't it wasn't confession it was just
you just circling like what they would say the other bad demons um yeah I went through it myself I
mean I'm not um not not um of the faith myself um you know I'd say I'm broadly agnostic um
but I was interested in just undergoing the experience and I mean look everyone's
everyone's got their own issues right um and and I would be open you know if deliverance works for
me I'm happy to uh to give it a go so yeah I just want to see the full experience but um
no it didn't have an effect on me but um I did see you know a lot of people who felt
healed um in some way um I don't think did you feel did you feel anything when you did the
practice um no I I didn't myself I I've undergone other um other kind of spiritual healings before
I might have felt something but um no I didn't personally feel anything okay but what would
you it's not the story about me it's the story about other people um and there are certainly
a lot of people who have undergone this specific um form of deliverance who who have who have felt
something for sure oh of course and I'm not I'm not showing that I'm I was a pentecostal youth
pastor I spoke in tongues I did the whole thing um I I uh I don't deny the experiences I've
denied the conclusion now yeah I don't know no longer believe yeah I'm no longer convinced
but um but uh I'm just curious I guess we'll end on this this kind of question but I'm kind of
curious where uh how do you you see a lot of this stuff you read a lot of this stuff how do you
conceptualize this in your mind like how do you what do you think's going on in this in this um in
this scenario where you see someone vomit or is delivered or you you you hear all these stories
of miracles like do you just kind of you know I'm sure you've heard stories of miracles or
whatever but how do you how do you deal with that how do you conceptualize that because a lot of the
audience um we got a we got a few people we got 22 people watching at the moment and a lot of people
here um are ex evangelicals ex pentecostals and they um they they they used to believe very strongly
in these things now they don't how do you and they all have a different idea of how they get
around that how do you get around that as an agnostic yourself um that's I mean I don't really
like to second guess people's faith or experience that that's not something um yeah I think that's
that's probably above my pay grade you know I think there are probably things going on in the world
that we don't know or can't understand but um yeah my job isn't really to to guess at what's
happening it's just just to tell the stories and to show people what's happening okay so yeah okay
so it's not it's not something that you even like really think about I guess I do it's just not
something that I feel comfortable commenting on um and it's not not really my focus yeah okay that's
that's totally okay um awesome so all right well then in that case let's just quickly touch on the
fact that on pentecostal to say you talk about that speaking in tongues is kind of going out of
fashion can you touch touch a little bit on that as we end up end up the interview um yeah I mean
someone there was a good article recently from pentecostal scholar whose name escapes me um yeah
I mean I just think that you know when the tongues made a lot of sense to people originally you know
it was it was as per the bible it was that you could be given this gift and go out and speak to
people in in foreign lands and tell them the good news um and uh a lot of the early pentecostals
really did that they were they were true believers and they um you know they got on boats to China
horribly woefully unprepared and you know some of them including Amy Simple McPherson one of the
very famous early pentecostals um her her first husband died of dysentery when they got to Hong Kong
um and because they thought they could speak Chinese right yeah yeah um and just went you
know with sort of a suitcase full of bibles um and so they you know um so so it had had meaning
and you know tongues still kind of continues I mean once again it's probably more common in the
developing world but it's certainly going out of vogue um and and yeah this pentecostal scholar
recently wrote a piece um sort of explaining his his definition of the difference between
charismatics which you know we consider the second wave and then neocarismatics is the
third wave of the movement um but I sort of call pentecostals just to you know for ease of reference
um he really believes that the difference between the the charismatics and and your
old school pentecostals is that old school pentecostal spoke tongues or speak tongues
those who still practice that today and charismatics don't really anymore and and I think
that's an an accurate characterization I think where we see the the gifts of the spirit being
practiced now in in modern pentecostal churches is overwhelmingly in healing and prophecy and so
you'll say you know when people have their moment when they're born again in the spirit it used to be
more often than not speaking in tongues was how someone had that had that moment now you'll you'll
see so much more often someone says you know I felt something in my hand and went out and
laid it on someone and and they felt better or that they had had a vision um so yeah I just think
that it's just you know meeting with with the modern realities that um the the effect and
meaning of tongues just doesn't have that valence anymore but all of a sudden having your conversion
moment having your before and after experience which is a very profound moment for people and
and you know why why testimony is such a big thing in pentecostalism people are going up and
offering their um the testimony and telling you about their life before and after that that very
profound moment um and it seems to be a lot more meaningful to say hey suddenly I have the power of
healing um and I'm going to go out and help the world or hey I'm having these visions now and I'm
you know I've got the whole thing sorted out um so so yeah I just think that it's it's once again
the the great power of pentecostalism and I think why it's really growing and expanding and converting
so many people from other christians and nominations is that relevance in people's lives is is the the
health and wealth it is the prophecy it is being able to tie it into particular politics at a
particular moment and really speak to people in the here and now as well as the ever after
yeah wow guys check out the book please it is just so jam packed with um with poetry I will say
that I will say the word poetry because the way you you are a brilliant and amazing uh
journalist I really love your writing style the book is amazing check it out I bet I want you
to do an audio I know you can't you told me you can't do an audio version but I would die if you
didn't audio version there was talk about it but um I'm just not sure if it's happening and I'm kind
of uh focusing on some other things now so okay awesome yeah that's up to my publisher not up to
me uh well I'm gonna give us your publisher's email I'll get on because I think it'd be awesome
thank you so much Ellie for coming on I'll continue on for a little bit just to say a
lot of the chat but um I really appreciate you coming on it's been an honor um and if you ever
want to do this again or you ever want to talk about any of your new projects I'm always happy
to have you on huge fan thank you so much thank you so much thanks for having me I really
appreciate it have a good one no worries bye bye so a bit of a short episode for everyone um
we were running a little bit behind schedule already and she only had 45 minutes but that's
that's totally okay uh Eddie Dean great interview thank you for the super chat great interview
brought back some haunting memories from being part of the AOG the brainwashing is real feels
for all uh kids going through what I did totally yeah I totally understand that um I'm just gonna
spend a couple minutes if you guys want to hang around I've got a I've got a couple of notes I
wanted to go over I've got two pages of notes I really wanted to get or three pages of notes
actually I really wanted to get deep um get super deep but unfortunately time didn't permit it
but um when I was a uh I wonder if I can make this big big big is there a way to make make myself
I want to make myself like super big no I can't um but I'll read everyone's chats in a second but
what I envisioned when I um you know was a Christian is there's this perspective that that uh
that you know like I said at the start that you you kind of started with the the disciples
going and preaching gospel to all the land and they you know it would go it just continued
it was like a line of of of apostles and disciples and people preaching and laying on
hands and all those things and I could maybe even accept that that disappeared for a little while but
gods was always keen to use the power of the Holy Spirit but what I didn't know is like the history
of Christianity and there are a lot of great books that talk about the history of Christianity but
it's so different and so more rich and diverse than you initially thought so um I actually
wrote this down so um Hillsong Church uh is an offshoot of the Assembly of God Church in Australia
founded uh which founded a founded a creative contemporary and charismatic worship experience
the Assemblies of God Church in 1914 emerged from the broader Pentecostal movement uh the
broader Pentecostal movement uh came from the Azusa Street revivals in 1906 the Azusa Street
revivals came from the holiest holiness movement in the mid 19th century the holiest movement came
out of the 7 day Adventus church um and as well as uh which came out of the Baptist Church in the 1700s
the Baptist Church came out of the Presbyterian Church and the Presbyterian Church came out of
the Methodist Church the Methodist Church came out of the Anglican Church the Anglican Church
the Anglican Church came out of the Anabaptist movement the Anabaspis movement came out of
the Lutheran Church the Lutheran Church came out of the Roman Catholic Church the Roman Catholic
Church came out of the Eastern Orthodox Church the Eastern Orthodox Church came out of the
Oriental Orthodox Church, and then we go right back to early Christianity. It's wild to me that,
and that's a very, that's a very loose, and it could be, I'm going to have some Bible scholars
and they're like, no, no, that's not right. But, but there, broadly, that's, that's what it seems
to be, that seems to be the case. It is just, it's wild. Now think about that, think about
like a branch of Christianity going Pentecostal, A.R.G., you know, Hillsong, A.R.G., Pentecostal,
all the way back, and think about, that's one branch, I'm like a huge bush, there were 45,000
denominations of Christianity. Each time there's a split, there's a new denomination and then a
split, and each person in that church has a different understanding of the Bible and the
Creator and the God and God and everything like that. It's, it's, Christianity is actually really
diverse. It's, it's, and it's really wild. And that's just something that, that, that I was kind
of blown away. The first chapter of this book is called The First, The Last Vomit of Satan,
because people were seeing, some preachers were seeing what was happening, these Easter
revivals and calling it The Last Vomit of Satan, like it was a bad thing, because
Christianity was seen as very different. Thank you everyone for coming out. Let's,
let's read some comments. I, we had such a quick interview, I just wanted to, I didn't get a chance
to look at everyone. Snake all sellers, yes, 100%. I'm having flashbacks from my childhood.
Thank you, apostasy. Guys, we've got a really, really awesome panel coming up in a couple of
days. I'm sure everyone knows I've been pumped, been pushing it so hard, the purity culture
panel. We're going to be doing some, a deep dive into purity culture. Eddie, me too, it's crazy,
because I was one of those teens laying hands on others in prayer and watching them fall over.
It was crazy. Yeah, I remember, I'm the same Eddie. I remember having, you know, I remember a
situation where I never fell over in the spirit. Well, I collapsed, I guess, but not, I didn't
pass out. I remember looking to my right and seeing a dear friend of mine, Carmen, who I just
see her, like she passed out. And I remember seeing her wake up, like, you know, five minutes later
or something. She was like out cold. I wonder, like, how do you guys all, like, I know Elle
didn't want to answer this question, but how do you guys justify that? Like, what do you guys
think of that now? And I'll give you my answer, but I'd love to hear what you guys think.
Selene, Selene, you asked me to proceed church of God and assembly of God does love speaking
tongues as well. Yep. Hi, Pragmatic Crystal. I haven't got a message from you, Pragmatic Crystal.
We're going to make you a star. I haven't seen Sean Q's breakdown. That sounds cool.
Yeah, and you should read the article, like I linked it before, but it's, it's, it's really,
I think I was being quite kind, but to me, it comes across as quite some, quite scary, to be
honest. It, like, it was a little triggering for me to read that, getting back into that old
mindset, like that old perspective that, like, you're broken, you're dirty. And, but there's
this intervention, the spiritual intervention, and it can fix you like that. It can remove your
afflictions was like a really scary place to be in, really scary, like mindset. And of course,
Christians will say, Oh, that's, that's, that's God calling you back or something. I don't know.
But for me, it just puts me back in this old mindset. I don't like it.
True story. I would, I would lay there and think, How long do I lay here?
We'll always show you David. Thank you, Apostasy.
Like I said, my brain, it's brainwashing. Yeah, but yeah, it's like, how do, how does someone,
so the person that fell over in my, my situation was just a friend from school that came to a
youth camp. Like for me, I don't think anything supernatural is going on because people pass
out when they see the Beatles, like there's something supernatural going on there. I think
it's probably like a form of like shock or hysteria or something. But it's definitely,
it's definitely a weird phenomenon.
I think the prayers we were forced to do for the diabetic lady was the point where I started
questioning, because I knew enough about diabetes to know prayer wasn't fixing it. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I, that's a good, that's a, yeah, and it can get, and it can get,
it can get really dark when, when people don't bring, don't, they try not to,
they don't bring their, their, their kids to the hospital. Let me just read something from the
book. This is about the, the snake handlers. Where's the, I've got a note here.
This book is, is cool. So this is about the snake handlers, right? And they interview,
Elle's interviewing someone and she says,
Silas is a cousin regularly traveling to snake handling congregations throughout the region
to sample and at times be sampled by the devil's emissaries, mystery, sorry. I've been bitten
pretty bad, he said to my inevitable question, fiddling with his overalls. They got me on the hand
and on the leg on the chest. When I asked what he did when he got bitten, he looked offended. I even,
I even asked, I had to ask pray. The pain only lasted two or three days in terms of body function,
but the actual bites from the rattlesnakes, copperheads and cottonmouths, the rockhouse keeps
quote, can hurt for months. One of my bites, it's been years, but snakes, they're, they are
predict, predictable in their own way. What really makes Silas mad is the authorities messing with
his faith. After one of his bad bites and the ambulance that had, that happened to be in the
area, took him to the hospital. And in the state of Alabama, when you pass out, you have no say,
they have full control, quote. You, you also have to be on alert for unwanted medical assistance
when drinking styke, styke chain, because quote, it messes with your nervous system and the body
can involuntarily spasm. The medical people interfering mucks up the whole point. If you're,
if you've been a good enough Christian, the snake bites and feeling organs will heal through prayer.
Hospitals interfering with their faith is one thing, but it's never been the same in Alabama
since 1990, 1991, when the authorities stopped looking the other way when it came to, with signs
churches after they came to, to unlock on worldwide prominence. Yeah. So it's like, it's like,
your idea, it's like medical intervention is, is bad in this case, with the stake at healers,
because, and it's almost seen as like a sin to, against faith to go to a doctor. I've got another
super chat from Eddie. Thank you so much, Eddie. The scariest thing I remember was my sister's
exorcism. She won't talk about it nowadays, but I was terrified and I wanted to know what really
happened. Wow, that's super interesting. Do you mind if I ask how old your sister was and is now?
Be super interested to know that.
Did anyone get, have the uncontrollable laughs? I never did, to be honest, but I know a lot of
people who did. It was very annoying. It was very disruptive to the meeting, but I don't know
people who did that. And now you, now you, you get that when you enjoy the occasional cannabis.
I used to love weed, but I just get, I just start to, I start to have panic, a panic attacks now.
The last time I smoked weed, I had a friend come over and of course in the country where it's legal,
wink, wink, and friend come over and he's like, does he have any weed? And I was like, oh yeah,
I had some, I had some from years ago and it was just leaves. Like it was just like,
and I smoked a little bit and I literally had two puffs of these leaves and for the next three days,
I felt just not right. I felt like the volume of life had been like turned up. It was horrible.
Yeah, I just hated it. The only time I'd do it again now is if I can go to a weed store and they
give it to me, like give it to me with like, and I know what I'm getting, like know what was strained
up getting. The one thing I used to feel at camp meetings was a sensation, like being drunk or drug
without a voice slurring and tripping over things. Everything else looks slightly blurred.
Yeah, yeah, I definitely experienced that. I experienced, I experienced that when I first
became a Christian, I think, because I, like, I felt funny for like two days, like afterwards,
like I, I remember going to work and just being a little bit like, I know it's like this, this,
like this feeling of like, they cut, like I've come down, like, um, like, I guess, I guess it could
be Kin's like, after really adrenaline, like after you cry or adrenaline, like some adrenaline
thing, and then you're like, you're having that come down. I felt like that for a few days, yeah,
after my religious experience.
Yeah. So it's very, it's very crazy. So I got a couple of questions for you guys before I end
this live stream. But one of the questions is, we have a purity panel, purity, purity culture
panel coming up. And I want to know what you guys want to hear from it. So we've got notes,
but I'd love to hear what you guys are wanting to hear. So we've got pure, pretty culture horror
stories. So they're like the, the, the, like, you know, the things that you kind of did to get
around things or like the things that you thought were sins that aren't sins anymore. But like,
do you want to hear a little bit about like, how you get over some of the negative thought
processes? Like, what is a healthy relationship with sex and, and everything like that? Let me
just pull up in the notes and apostasy is here in the chat. And she is a, is a, is a panelist.
So that's going to be awesome. I've been, oh, I've been exercising. It was awful.
I was legit, I was legitimately, I was legitimately was ill. But because I had an Easter basket in
my closet, they thought I was possessed. Instead of caring for my health, I lost consciousness.
Wow. I'm so sorry to hear that. Wow, that's wild.
Did you, do you mind if I was at a Pentecostal? Can I ask if it was at a Pentecostal?
Type type movement.
Yeah, that's
apostasy is asking what people would like to hear. That's a good, for the
purity culture panel. Let me just share. So we've got some awesome, some awesome stuff coming up.
So the stream right before not as conformant always pulls big numbers. So the stream right
before we're going to be talking about Isaiah 53, you know, the Jews say, no, this is never talking
about the Messiah, the messianic figure. And Christians say, yes, it is talking about the
messianic figure. So we're going to be talking about Isaiah 53. Does it, does it really talk
about Jesus? Does it really talk about the Messiah? Is the suffering servant actually about Jesus?
It sounds like it to me when I read it, but apparently that's not the biblical consensus.
And we're going to be learning about that, about that. Why? And Neil pulls big numbers.
And then as a result, we get, we'll have a lot of people tuning in for the purity culture panel,
which will be the next day. It's going to be an amazing panel.
So pragmatic, crucial, purity culture is really damaging. Yeah, I totally agree. And that's part
of the reason why I'm doing this, this panel. Let me just get to the end here. So we can
show everyone. So Feral Passer's wife, we have Jeremy, who is a family therapist, a pastor,
porn star, Nicole Mitchell, myself. My friends reckon it looks like I've been photoshopped in
there because it looks like a, okay, they don't see me as like a panelist. It's so funny. Apostasy,
he's got an amazing story and student and family doctor, Ben, no longer a student who just went
through, just went through top surgery. So congratulations, Ben. That's super awesome.
So happy about that. So yeah, what, so we want to talk a little bit about the history of purity
culture, the damaging effects that we've all been affected by, and also like how you can kind of
like move away from that kind of mindset. Because I'll give everyone a bit of a sneak peek. So
for me, I was a, and yeah, guys, comment below what you'd like to hear from the
purity culture panel, like Apostasy said. But for me, I had like this experience where I was,
I loved, like I love sex and masturbation, pornography, I love all those kinds of things.
Like to me, it's always been fun. However, there was a lot of shame attached to that
throughout my whole life because I necessarily didn't want to, I guess, do it because I thought
it was wrong in the eyes of the church and the eyes of God. And as a result, this negative,
like perpetual motion of, I guess, thinking about lustful thoughts or looking at pornography or
hooking up with someone or something like that would continue over and over and over again,
where I'd have that thought, I'd feel bad, I'd repent, and the whole idea of my thoughts were
bad, my thoughts were bad, and I couldn't, you know, and that continual process built this like,
this spiral of like shame. And eventually it gets so like, how many times are you going to pray
about like an ask forgiveness for the same thing? It gets really, really, really, really, really,
really like embarrassing and hard. And I went to men's groups, I did all these things.
And when I got married to my beautiful wife, Amy, we didn't have sex until we were married,
we had sex the first time on our wedding night. And when we first had sex, the first few times,
like we were having sex was, I think, was okay, because we're kind of feeling around
how to, no pun intended, we're kind of feeling out like, you know, my wife was a virgin, I wasn't,
but we still waited until we're married. And eventually what happened was, sex for me,
in marriage, became full of shame. So I would get anxiety before we would have sex, I would get
anxiety after we'd have sex, when, when Amy would come over and give me a cuddle in the morning,
maybe I would panic, I'd be like, does she want to have sex? Does she not want to have sex? What
I'm gonna like, you know, I don't want to get my hopes up, I don't want to get my hopes down,
I would tense up and I'd feel this tremendous amount of anxiety. And it got to the point where,
it didn't get to the point, it was like, nine times out of 10, I would have anxiety somewhere
around sex. I remember like, one time we would have sex, and I wouldn't have anxiety beforehand
or afterwards, and I would be riding that high for like days, I'd feel so good, I'm like, yes,
like things aren't like doom and gloom. But yeah, that guilt, those ingrained parts of my brain,
still felt that shame with the purity culture. And so that's a big part of what we're talking about.
Normally people need to be having sex at least, at least by 20. I don't know if the word need,
I don't know if I agree with the word need, but I definitely think there's nothing wrong with
people having sex when they're old enough to make that consensual decision, that they can,
oh my gosh, they can keep consent, but also they're emotionally ready for it as well. And people are
different. Thank you for sharing, Eddie. Yes, that was one of the sins that I regularly asked for,
forgiveness for when I was a believer. Yeah, it's amazing. This is going to be a very cathartic
panel and discussion. Yeah, and it's something, something interesting, apostasy is the difference
between men and women with purity culture. There is, there is a huge stark difference,
but also a lot of similarities. And it's, it's interesting that, that women were kind of told
to cover up because you're going to make men stumble. And men were kind of told that they're
internal, they're essentially predators that they needed to control themselves because otherwise
they would rape and pillage. So, but I take offense to that, not only because it dismisses men from
being like needing to cover up or whatever, but it's also like, why can't women be perverts as
well? Like it might, you know, feminists came out and I was like, no, this is bullshit. Like women,
women should be able to be perverts as well. Yeah, it's a double standard, exactly. Like what I've
learned since, I guess, having open conversations with female friends and, you know, and my wife
have been, you know, learning more about women through my wife is women just as, like, can be
just as sexual and more so even sexual and, and watch pornography and masturbate and all those
things, like all those fun things. Just like men, it's not a, it's not like a, like pornography
masturbation isn't, this isn't the 70s where women don't have orgasms and they just grind
their teeth through sex. Like women can enjoy sex too. That seems so weird to say,
that it's like a weird thing to say, but women enjoy sex too. Like, yeah, it's wild.
I'm just trying to find my notes. I've got so many notes.
And I can't seem to find them. This is a riveting stream for everyone.
But essentially, I found some statistics on, on like how many people watch pornography. And it
was something like, I think it was like 91% of men have watched pornography in the last
six months, I think it was, or a month. Take these numbers with a grain of salt. And I think
it was like 71% of women or 67% of women. Like it was, it was, you know, 20% less or something.
Definitely, I think men like pornography more, but, but in general, like in generality, but
it's still something that both men and women engage in. Anyway, that's going to be an awesome
stream. And, and just to shout out a couple more things that we've got going on.
So straight after the, straight after the stream, we have, we have Testify coming on to talk about
Pentecostal Christianity. So Testify, Eric is a Pentecostal Christian. So I'll be going, going
deep with, with him over some lemon water, which will be cool. And I'll be chucking all the hard
questions at him in, in a polite way, because he's a polite guy. Then we have Chrissy coming on to
talk about, should we, should we de-platform harmful ideologies and those who promote them?
And those who promote them. So this is a really interesting question that I think needs to be
addressed, especially as I, as deep things can become as more popular. I need to take that into
account. We then have Dan McClellan, Yahweh's Divine Images. So talking about his book and
over a diet, Dr. Pepper, that is going to be awesome. We have Wars and Journalism in Ukraine
with Dylan Burns Live. He's not necessarily in the atheist or religious space on the
internet, but he does some incredible stuff. He's friends with a friend of the stream, Anastasia.
I've been watching him for years. He's a, he's a really cool guy and he's just this young dude
over in Ukraine doing journalism, trying to bring attention to the atrocities that are
happening there. And then of course, the best stream of all, proclaiming the gospel of Jesus
to Aaron Ra. Should I, should I actually, you see, Aaron doesn't know me very well. He doesn't
have time to know, like, no person, every person he gets to, gets to interview. But like, should I
pretend that I am a Christian trying to convert him to Christianity? Like, I don't know, it could be fun.
But I was, I just love this. I just love his face versus what I'm doing there.
But it's like, you know, I want to hit him with some of the most, some of the questions, some of
the answers that he hears all the time, you know, the, you know, look at the trees. Where do you
think he came from? Like, just all that kind of stuff. Yeah. Absolutely. 100%. So guys, I think
we'll wrap up the stream there. But thanks for all for hanging out. I know this was a bit of a
shorter one. We normally go for 90 minutes. El didn't have all that too much time. But I hope
everyone had enjoyable time. Anyway, we might be able to get El on again in the future. We'll see.
But otherwise, I'll see you guys in a couple of days for the ISI 53
conversation with Noseconformant. And I've got to go to work. So I'm not going to finish the rest
of this delicious margarita, but which is kind of good because I don't like drinking in the morning,
but it's part of the job. But thank you guys so much for coming out. I'm glad that you've
liked the show. Hit the like button, guys. Oh, actually, one more question. I'm a little bit
shy about just doing a, doing a stream just by myself. I feel like I kind of don't have much,
like I'm kind of boring. But part of me, but I kind of, at the same time, I kind of want to.
Do you think that, would you watch a stream if it was just me like once a week talking about
things that I've learned taking maybe call-ins, having like people like join, would that be
something that you'd find interesting? Let us know in the comments now. Like, is that something?
Thanks. You're not boring. Thank you. I just feel like I'd just run out of things to talk about.
Or I just kind of like, I'm not very articulate in how I present ideas. And I'm mumble.
Awesome, guys. Thanks. Awesome. Thanks. Thanks, James.
I think we need to have pragmatic crystal call-up.
Sorry. I'll stop. I'll stop. I just think you've got, I'll stop. Crystal, I just, I think you've
got, I think you've got a lot of cool wisdom to share. But I know if you're shy, you're shy,
but I'd love to see you. Come on. Thank you. Thanks, Lane. Maybe I might do a solo show.
I was going to do, Sylvia, thank you. Awesome. I'd love to do,
just love to hear you on your own. Awesome. I was going to do a thing called deep drink driving,
where I was going to play a driving simulator, like a trucker simulator, like in Drive Across America,
while I'm drinking and take calls and when I crash the stream ends. But a porn reaction show.
I would pay to listen to pragmatic crystal. Yeah, I know, I know. So, yeah, but yeah,
that was an idea. But then I was like, but then I'd want to get the steering wheel and the gear
stick. Maybe that's something for the future. And also, this isn't a super gaming channel
or anything like that. I do have a gaming channel, but maybe I just talked to the camera. I don't
know. I'll think about some ideas. I've got some mental health issues going on at the moment,
a little bit depressed at the moment. I don't know why I don't ask me. But yeah,
so maybe I will do that. Maybe it will be cool to hang out with you guys. Anyway, I'll see you
guys later. Thank you so much for coming out and make sure to check out the stream in exactly
two days. So see you guys then. Love you all. Thank you so much for coming out. Appreciate it.
See you later.
