What does the Bible really say about gender, sexuality, and marriage?
From the surface understanding, this may seem like a trivial question.
Dive a little deeper, and you may be surprised with what you find.
Welcome everyone. My guest today is Dr. Jennifer Bird, who is a New Testament Bible scholar,
educator, author, and I like to describe her as a human rights advocate. Her work often ruffles
the feathers of many fundamentalists, not because her ideas are wild or unfounded,
but because she approaches her scholarship as a thinking, feeling human. Her work is known
world over, with reviewers thanking her for her honesty, objectivity, and illumination of difficult
concepts within the Bible. Dr. Jennifer Bird is an educator of over 20 years with a Master's
of Divinity from Princeton Theological Seminary and a PhD in New Testament and Early Christianity
from Vanderbilt University. She has quickly become one of my favorite Christian authors and has
introduced me to what is now one of my favorite quotes, which is a paraphrase from Aristotle,
that is, it is the mark of an educated mind to be able to entertain an idea without accepting it.
I hope we can all absorb this advice. Welcome Dr. Jennifer Bird.
Hello, David. Thank you for having me. That was such a lovely intro. Thank you.
Thank you. I try to do my guests, honor my guests in the introduction, and I think there's
more that could be said about you, but I want to keep it short. I've only ran in, met you,
and learned about your work through Derek and through Dr. Josh. The panel we're doing next
week. Yeah, it's been fun for me to be a part of all this and also to get to meet you. I just
really appreciate where you're coming from and what you bring to the conversations.
Yeah, well, it's funny. We're all in a group chat, and you guys are all scholars,
and I'm there just saying silly things, and no one cares. You guys are all talking about stuff,
and I'm like, and I'll just throw a little witticism out there, and everyone's just like,
okay, and then just go. No, but it is, I do feel badly, because scholarly or intellectual humor
can be kind of odd, you know, inside joke kind of anyway. I try and get, I'm trying to get people,
like I try and, I try and, with me, there's like a point where people go, all right, Dave's weird,
like Dave's weird, he's a weird guy, but then eventually like it crosses over and like, okay,
he's funny as well, because he's telling us funny things now. So what are we drinking today?
I, coffee, I'm a strong, dark coffee person, I do put a little sugar and cream in there,
half and half, I don't know about, what's your, what's your way to drink coffee, David?
I'm just like, well, normally I do an iced coffee, so I just, it's just instant, so I just throw
instant in there, ice, and then, and then like add hot water and then add soy milk or oat milk
or something like that, is what I like to do. I wouldn't normally do this, but we've just,
guys, I just want to also shout, we've just been monetized, which was something that we did,
we pushed very hard to get monetized so that we could, so we could get super chats during the
slavery panel, which is coming up, and we just had our first super chat, so I had to
like shout out to chat GDP. Yes, and I love the standing up for LGBT people, Dr. Bird. Absolutely,
absolutely, you're welcome. So you, you are the first super chat I've ever received, so thank you.
How exciting, yeah. So, so how would you like, how would you like me to refer to you, Dr. Jennifer
Bird? Jennifer, how, like, how's- Jen or Jennifer works for me. Okay. I appreciate your
respect for this, but yeah. Jennifer, no. So Jennifer, tell us about going on dates with Jesus.
I do pull back from the microphone when I laugh, because I have a really good-
Yeah, yeah. No, I said what I do as well. Yeah, right, right. That is funny that you opened with
that. So yes, I had a very conservative, like fundamentalist swing, much to my family's,
you know, sugar, whatever. They, they tell, I think they just kind of put up with me or whatever,
but yeah, I thought of myself as dating Jesus when I was in college, especially my first couple
years. I remember going to the, this donut shop that I just loved, you know, Freshman's
first and second year college, and I just go get a couple donuts and a cup of coffee and I just
hang out in a booth and I would reflect on, you know, it was almost like having a devotional
or a quiet time or whatever if that language means anything to you. Yeah. Yeah. And I would,
you know, converse with Jesus in my mind, you know, and- No, I know, I know what you mean. It just,
it sounds funny to say dating, dating Jesus. So, was it like a thing that you and like,
your other Christian friends, like you would all do separately? Like it was like a thing?
Yeah, I was kind of a superstar because I would do that. Like others would like think that was
impressive that I would, but they didn't have like the courage or whatever to actually go do
think about it that way or whatever, whatever. I'm being silly, but yeah, we did. I had, I had
friends who thought of it that way and, you know, the whole nine yards that goes along with a very
conservative, a fundamentalist kind of an evangelical community, you know, no kissing until
you're married, that kind of thing, like kissing for the first time on your wedding day in front
of everybody. How weird is that? You know, but people did it. Yeah, that would be, that would be
yeah, that would be bizarre. I mean, I know some, I know people who did it as well in the church,
but there's, I remember, I remember when I first, so I mentioned beforehand, I used to be a Christian,
I'm Pentecostal youth pastor, and now I'm no longer a Christian. I try to be,
yeah, yeah, we did the speaking in tongues, all good stuff. But one of the things that I remember
listening to worship music when I first became a Christian and it was, you know, Jesus, we love you
and a lot of stuff. And I was like, that's cool. But there was this one song that was by Planet
Shakers that was like, it says like, Jesus, I'm in love with you. And I was like, for in love. And
I was like, I remember driving, I was riding my push bike to work at the supermarket. And I remember
thinking to myself, oh, that's too far. I was like, that's in love with Jesus. That feels too far.
But then sure enough, give me a few more months in the church. And I was like, I love you, Jesus.
Like it became like, I totally flipped my script on that. It was, it was a cool thing. Yeah. Yeah.
Which is, which, you know, that raises all these other thoughts for me or other topics or, you know,
like the whole issue of the way the church over the centuries has talked about romantic or intimate
relationships and what's allowed and what's not, you know, I mean, to have a male saying he's in
love with Jesus, right? I mean, that that's a conversation to have, right? Yeah. So, so you
went from having coffees with Jesus and to being against women ordination, right?
So, so you went from that to what you're doing today, which you're definitely the authority
in this conversation. Let me tell you. So, you know, so you have definitely authority over me in
this situation. So how did you go from being against women ordination and not liking women
pastors, that concept to moving to how you think today? Yeah. Yeah. Well, and I should,
I should also note that I grew up in the United Methodist Church. And in our area, there were
plenty of women who are associate pastors, at least, and now more and more head pastors as well.
But even growing up, I had two of my favorite people and I'm still in touch with them actually,
just reconnected with them last year, were the female associate pastors, you know, in these
churches. And they were, you know, so as a growing up, you know, even as a young teenager, I, you
know, I loved them and I had no trouble with it. And it was when I started reading the Bible,
much more, I'm going to put in air quotes, literally, because sometimes people think
they're reading these stories, literally, and they're actually reading them metaphorically
or spiritually. And so relatively speaking, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's whole conversation there.
But relatively speaking, it was much more literal, taking it, you know, kind of at face value and
God's word gets has to trump everything else. So that's how I got, I went from being a member
of a Methodist Church to saying, no, no, I actually am not okay with these things.
Even on my mother's ordination day, she was ordained and I think in our 50s,
early 50s, yeah. And on her ordination day, I, you know, asked her how she could do this
because it's against God's will, you know. And then, yes, and then now I'm kind of at the opposite
end of the spectrum, if you will. And how did I go from there to where I am? Primarily, intellectual
integrity. Yeah. And that's it. Like, I went to seminary because I wanted to learn biblical
languages. And the reason I wanted to do that was someone had shown me that they were working
with the Greek in the Mary Martha story for anyone who's familiar with that story. And they,
and she, she changed the way she kind of interpreted what he says to Martha. And it
rocked my work, like in one of the most dramatic way, it was one of the most dramatic
moments of my life actually was having this, this paper that was showing me something different.
And I was like, if this one thing attributed to Jesus can be translated differently because
you know those languages, I went in on that. Like, what else am I missing, right? What else could I,
and the scripture was important to me. And so that's, you know, I went to seminary to learn
the languages. And then I didn't know I was going to be exposed to all the other stuff,
the church history and where the theology came from and the development of it all. And,
you know, I probably wouldn't have gone if I'd known what I was going to be exposed to.
Yeah, I don't know what you mean. Do you know what I mean? Yeah, I, it's funny because I can see a
lot of, a lot of similarities in your journey to my journey. When I was reading a book, I saw that
I was a bit the same. Obviously, mine led me in very different direction to you, to your
but which is fine. I'm not judging anyone and I hope you're not judging me. But
what's interesting is, like, I remember thinking to myself, like, learning about, like,
science and learning about fossils and the fossil record and evolution and things like that,
when I was, you know, looking into things. I remember thinking to myself, if I can pick up
and hold, like, a fossil and we, I can dig it from a part of the earth that, you know, that it's only
in that layer of, shouldn't that be more, like, if that's God's creation, shouldn't that be
above the words of God that would, that would transcend a free man? Like, that's the direct,
that's God's direct creation. Yeah, you know what I mean? It's handiwork. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
It's like, it's his handiwork. Like, so shouldn't that be, and this was my early, early years,
but I was like, shouldn't the earth be better evidence? Yeah. Like, shouldn't that be more,
that's like, that's like, first, first, first degree of, yeah, first degree evidence where,
like, the Bible is translated free man. So it's second degree. It's like a testimony, right?
Right. So I was like, why wouldn't we take what we see in science and then use that to inform our
perspective on the Bible? And yeah, I mean, there are people who do that. And I always point to
to Christians who, like, if someone's struggling with their faith and they don't want to struggle
with their faith, I will often point them to Michael Jones, or there's a lot of organizations
on the, on the, on the internet, they try and marry up the theory of evolution with,
with the Bible and things like that. What are your thoughts around that whole concept,
where science and, and the literal translation of Noah and the magical zoo boat?
Magical zoo boat. I like that. Well, you know, I hope you don't, I hope that wasn't offensive.
Sorry. Oh, you're not going to offend me, trust me. I appreciate the sensitivity.
No, I actually wrote about 10 years ago or so, I had an entry to get to have like a bit of a
platform with Huffington Post back when it was still kind of a little more interesting before,
before she left. Okay. And I wrote, I wrote a piece actually after watching a debate between
is it Ken Ham and Bill Nye, the science guy. That was, that was the thing that,
that got me questioning everything. Did it? Oh, nice. Okay. Yeah. Wow. Well, you know,
I wrote a piece the next day and I was like, evolution is never going to convince a creationist
because you're not having the conversation in a way that both members of the conversation can hear.
And, you know, I, I feel like when you just say this is wrong or this is dumb, even just, you
know, to someone who says, I need a creationist view of the world because that's what works for
me. And that's what I believe. Like, you can't just come at that. You have to have a conversation
about how to consider these things differently. And I, so, you know, I, I think that it's,
from where I am now, I think it's really fun that I can look at the first creation story and say,
huh, that generally follows the order of evolution. Like, that's pretty cool. Right. Like, that's how,
you know, I look at it that way. Or I like it when, you know, somebody's written some sort of
story to try to explain some sort of natural phenomenon, you know, like the rainbow story and
part of the flood stories. And, you know, that's my engagement with science and the Bible is
they're not trying to do the same things. They weren't trying to actually explain in the way
that we mean that. Right. They were explaining in the best way they knew how at the time. And
gosh, aren't these myths fun, you know? Yeah. Yeah, that's, yeah, I don't know how much you
have. I mean, with all the reading you do, I don't know how you do anything to be honest. But
with like, I don't know how much you know about like other religions of the world, like
Hinduism or creation stories from other concepts. But it's, it's, I mean, I've only read the,
I've only read a small little bit of literature there. But it's really interesting to me that
for me, religion has become so much more impressive now that I view it the way that I do,
which is I view it, I view religion as like men's early attempts at trying to understand the cosmos.
So it's like, it's like a, it's like the battle cry of humanity. It's like the,
it's like the, this is where we're at. This is what we're, how we perceive things. And
when I look across cultures, you can kind of see how like ideas kind of develop
within the culture of the time. And it's fascinating to me. I really love religion.
Like I've become a lover of religion. That is fascinating, actually. Yeah.
Are you familiar with, there's a, I used to, I used to use the, there's a website called The Big
Myth. When I used to get to, yeah, when I used to get to do just one testament in an intro to
just one of the testaments. But it has, they've evolved over the years, but that website has
quite a few creation stories from around the world. And it, and it's really lovely because it
points to, well, yes, there might be a creation story for people in Australia that includes
kangaroos, you know, or New Zealand's might include tsunamis or some, you know, like,
you know, Inuit people might include, you know, polar bears and things like that,
issues that they dealt with, you know, and that might be included in their creation story. And,
and very much to your point about the cultural context is important, the geopolitical context.
And yeah, so I don't know, to be honest, I'm not well versed on a lot of the different
creation stories or early myths, but I do have a general sense. I do teach intro to
world religions. And that's, again, that's very kind of surfacing. I don't get to dive too deep
with that. Yeah. Yeah. Have you read, have you read the Bhagavad Gita before?
I have. I have. Yeah. Just once. And then I read through parts of it with students when I get to
do it in person. Yeah. What's your take on it? Well, I was just going to say, and I'm about to
read out Nostra Conformants comment, but when we were talking about this the other day where we
were talking about the Bhagavad Gita, I remember reading it poolside drunk in Bali.
And there's techno blaring and there's a pool party on this rooftop,
and I've got these headphones, and I'm listening to the Bhagavad Gita,
and chapter nine hit, and I was like, whoa, chapter nine is like...
Is that where he reveals himself?
It's the part that's like, I am the flame and the wood that's consumed. And I was just like,
whoa, this feels like something out of Isaiah or something.
Exactly. It does. Yeah. And I was blown away, and it gave me that same feeling I get when I
read the Bible, which is the same. I get those feelings of warmth and it's like, not all the
Bible, not all the Koran or anything like there's some parts like that will be going over in our
slavery panel that I definitely have very different emotions for. But it's interesting how these,
for me, I can be, I don't have any belief in a God, but I still have these strong warm feelings
towards that, but it's more from a human perspective. It's more from like, I love,
I love that humanity is kind of, this is humanity's like, I don't know how to describe it.
I need to go learn some poetry and write it down, but...
Yeah, well, maybe, but I hear what you're saying, right, that you resonate with other
humans' attempts to put voice, to put words, these experiences, right? And sometimes you do need
some sort of psychedelic language to describe whatever. I don't have too many of those experiences,
just to be honest. But it would be interesting, we should do a whole other conversation about
psychedelics. We both drink ayahuasca as the... Right, wouldn't that be fun? Oh my gosh.
Oh, watch us have a panic attack for six hours.
So, Nosta Conformant asked a question. Thank you so much for the super chat.
Completely normal in the Greek world was the concept of teacher-student relationship that
was known as beloved, which oftentimes involves same-sex relationships.
Do you think John's beloved disciples show any resemblance?
Somebody put him up to that because I did a whole thing with him on that.
That was nice of him to, you know, plant the hook in there. I do. Yeah, no, I think,
wow, I know. Okay, so this is where all the fundamentalists turn off the stream.
Yeah, no, I didn't approach that very well, did I? So here's the thing.
One of my colleagues who recently died a few years ago, but his name is Theodore Jennings and
New Testament scholar, and he did. He wrote a book called The Man Jesus Loved,
Homo erotic narratives in the New Testament.
And yeah, yeah, yeah. So, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow. Yeah. And I have those blossoms even to say.
Doesn't it? Yeah, yeah. And I have to say, I bring this into the book I've just wrapped up recently
that I was now in my publisher's hands, but the book I've recently written is on marriage in the
Bible. What do the texts actually say about it? Or what do the texts say? But when I first read
Ted's work, you know, where he walks through essentially and shows us how John's Gospel,
I should say, he wears the lenses of the lover-beloved relationship and he shows us how
several of the passages line up and actually make, help me make more sense of them when I look at
them through this lens. Doesn't mean that's the way you have to read it all, but it made so much
more sense to me that way. And when I first read it, I was already like, you know, PhD, I'm an ally,
an LGBTQ ally, I'm working on my heteronormative like freight, like wiring in my head, you know,
working on my racist wiring, like trying to take it all apart, you know, like I'm very conscious of
all these elements. But even like as I read that, I was like, Jesus couldn't have sex with a man,
like the initial thing is running through my head. You know, which just says all these different
things about the associations we have with Jesus. If Jesus was actually God, he couldn't have had
sex, much less with a man. With a man, yeah. It feels blasphemous for me to even link it,
even though I linked the book in the description. Yeah. I think I'm not normally like this. I think
talking to you and knowing that you're a, you know, you're a strong Christian and a PhD, I'm
trying to be super respectful. And I think that's like rubbing off on me and I'm being more, I'm
normally a little spicier when it comes to like questions about God and stuff. So if this is
the first time watching, know that I'm not always feeling, yeah, I mean, there was one stream where
I was like speaking and doing a speaking in tongues off with someone. So that was, that was, you know,
wild, that felt blasphemous as well. Anyway, so, yeah, so, so, so, I mean, obviously that's not
that concept that Jesus was in a homosexual relationship was, is not probably
the consensus perspective. No, it's not. But let me clarify also. And this is,
this is what it kind of gets interesting, right? One of the, one of the things going on for my
perspective as a biblical scholar, not set aside whatever my personal beliefs are on this,
as a biblical scholar, it's important for me to note that what they were doing was they were not,
the gospel writers were not trying to tell history. They were trying to present
a depiction of Jesus, or we sometimes talk, I sometimes talk about it as trying to craft or
create an essence of Jesus that they're trying to convince others of. And this is why actually we
should read them separately instead of trying to blend them together, like Matthew says this and
Mark says that and connecting it like, no, no, no, no, stop doing that. But it's, in particular,
when you look at John, because it is so different from the first three. And we do tend to talk
about them separately, but in academic circles. But John's is the only one that makes it very,
very clear that Jesus is God, blah, blah, blah. John is writing for a Greek audience. And there are
a lot of reasons, a lot of pieces we can point to. My favorite one is the opening scene, where it's
very much describing kind of that neoplatonic creation story. The logos that's the emanations
of the logos, the overflow of the logos is what is what is used to create all of the world. That's
the Greek idea. And that is now being applied to Jesus in the opening scene of John. So we have,
it's very clear that they're trying to appeal to a Greek audience. And this particular element of
the love or beloved relationship, whether it's teacher, student, you know, as Oh, my God,
I'm spacing his first name right now. As Gnostic Informant suggests, Neil, Neil, thank you. I
was like, why can't yeah, whether it's teacher, student or kind of older man, younger man in
community. But that relationship was acknowledged and was part of the fabric, right? And so to show
Jesus having a beloved to in to show that that that he was in that kind of a relationship
makes sense for the audience he's trying the the author of John's Gospel is trying to reach.
It doesn't mean that historically Jesus actually had a male lover. It just means that somebody
wanted wanted this character Jesus to appeal to a whole bunch of Greek men. And so that's one of
the ways you're going to do it is put this element in there. That comment that I've just made is also
scary to people. And I get that, right? Like, what do you mean? He made some stuff up, you know,
like, yeah, that's kind of what I mean. Yeah, I can feel I can feel so many people have turned
off when I'm out of here. They'll come back in a few years. That human element is hard to yeah.
100%. So you're you're a huge LGBT ally. But what I love about your book is you don't come out and say
like, God loves gays get over it. You essentially you ask that you use the Socratic method all
through the book. You're constantly asking the audience to think about what are your thoughts
on this before we go into it. And then now that we've gone into this, this, this topic, what are
your thoughts now? And do you think this is fair? Or do you think this is makes sense? Or I remember,
you know, I used to go see a psychologist and he when I was a Christian, he would say,
would a loving God really do that? And I'm like, Well, and I'm like, Well, you don't really know,
you know, I remember saying, I'm like, I'm like, it's hard. I'm like, it's hard because you don't
really know, you know, like, but but one of the things that one of the parts for me, when I was
deconstructing and he might even be watching it now, this this this stream right now, but if he is
colon comment, but the first guest I ever interviewed on Deep Drinks was one of my dearest
friends who I met in ministry college, who was closeted for 45 years. So he, you know, and he
tried to pray the gateway, try to do do all that kind of stuff. Yeah. And, and as I was kind of
deconstructing, he was kind of trying to go through the Bible and trying to find the answers to all
this stuff. And, and dealing with it eventually got to the point where, you know, he was having,
you know, conversations with pastors and stuff, and he got to the point where they're like,
Yeah, let's let's honestly look at this, we might be able to find them might homosexuality might be
okay. And then it'll get to a point where he's like, Well, this looks like ambiguous. And then
they're like, Yeah, we have to trust the scribes knew what they were doing. And that and that that
was like the end all. So anyway, but I remember thinking to myself personally, like, What if
the church throws away this doctrine, like they did with women's having to wear headscarves when
they pray? Or what if they throw away the doctrine, this doctrine, like they did with, you know,
there's lots of stuff the church has changed their mind on or like slavery. Yeah,
I was like, So what if what if that happens? I was like, And you've just wasted your entire life,
you know, and you had really bad anxiety and depression and stuff. And now I can say that
he's in a happy long term relationship of a couple years. And yeah. So, so can you go into a little
bit about like, how did I mean, I imagine that at the start, you, you probably didn't hold the
perspective that gay was okay, or whatever, how did that develop?
You know, it's interesting, I am, my this is going to sound like a tandem, but I promise it's
related. My parents made sure that my brothers and I got to be exposed to theater, live theater
growing up. And I am so grateful for that. What that means is I was around a lot of actors,
and I even ended up working at the theater for a summer. And so I remember like interacting with
these people who are, you know, two men, they're couples, and, you know, the sky hits on me. And
they're like, you know, he's, he's straight when he's sober and gay, when he's drunk, you know,
random conversation. So like, I loved, loved all these people, but I knew, but I still had
a theological idea that said that that wasn't right, but I didn't know how to, and, but nobody
was asking me to reconcile that. So yes, when I went to seminary, I had lots of, lots of meals
with a friend of mine, whose brother was, it was gay, and just trying to like work it out for myself.
You know, and again, it's really about coming back to your point a little bit. It's really
about human realities actually need to have a stronger voice in this conversation, Jen,
than just what the Bible says, you know, like you can't, it doesn't, human realities and experiences
far exceed what is contained in the Bible. And so they need to be taken into consideration. And
so that's kind, I mean, very slowly, you know, like I have all these friends who are, you know,
closeted or semi out or, you know, and so I had, you know, I had time to slowly work it out for
myself and as compared to this issue with women and leadership for me was much more pressing.
But then in 2012, I was in a situation where, you know, the, there was a conversation at the
state level about marriage and whether or not, and there was an, it was, there was a vote,
constitutional vote that was going to essentially define marriages between a man and woman
within the state constitution. And so that's what got me invested in actually trying to
talk about it and to write a little bit more publicly as a public scholar, which is a funny
label. But I, you know, I just think that there's a lot of misunderstanding about what the Bible
does and doesn't say on this particular topic. And I have found, as you noted about my book,
Permission Granted, I have found it, it's a lot more, it's a lot easier to have a conversation
when you're asking questions and asking people what they're thinking and trying to kind of meet
in the middle, you know, as compared to telling someone that they're, that they're cruel because
they don't love, you know, like it doesn't get very far. And I think, yeah, and I think that's,
that's the point is like, and you've got to be able to, you've got to go into the conversation
being willing to change your mind as well. Like that's like, and that's really hard to do. And
I think that's why a lot of people don't do it is because you've got to, people can, can kind of
see if you're trying to, I guess, be dishonest and like, mislead. Absolutely. Yeah. So if you,
but if you come into it, like, I like to approach conversations, like hard conversations with people
as if we're both detectives trying to work out the problem. Like, and I go, well, what about
this issue here? And then, you know, and I think that's like a really, and that's what you do in
your book. And just to shout out your book, people go listen to it on Audible. That's the first
thing. It's got one five star review, which is me. Oh, thank you. I cannot stress how much
it bothered me that there's not more reviews on this. The production value is great. The
everything is fantastic. It was such a good, you read it perfectly, because obviously you're the
author, but it's fantastic. And if you want to purchase the actual hardcover book, which I'll
be doing, I'm going to be spending all my pocket money on the autograph version. So because I just,
I needed to write something sassy in there, like Dr. Josh wrote something sassy in his
and of course, it's good time to shit out your, your website. So you have a new podcast coming
up too. We have, we have our fourth episode was just released. I haven't, yeah, I haven't
listed them here. I just put the link to our Wild Allah. Yeah. Yeah. Awesome. Yeah. And of course,
of course, your YouTube channel, everyone go subscribe. Dr. Jennifer Bird, she's got amazing
content. You know, even as a non Christian, it's really good to kind of look at this stuff and
see like the field theological approach that you can take. If you do run into a bigot in the street,
you can point them to Dr. Jennifer Bird's channel. Of course. And just quickly, a self plug for
myself. We have deep drinks, deep drinks, Patreon page. And we are the first 12 people that sign
up for it. We'll be getting canonized as the first 12 disciples of deep drinks. I love that.
So, so yeah, so we have, we have Godless Engineer and Cheryl and doesn't matter if you know, if you
need to pause your membership membership or stop it or whatever, doesn't matter. You'll always be
immortalized. And, you know, we have different, different sex. So check that out if you can
support this channel. And of course, next week, we have not next week, sorry, I'm doing more and
more episodes. People, people should know this. I'm pushing really hard to get more and more
episodes. But tomorrow, we have Dr. Kip Davis on to talk about the Dead Sea Scrolls. I'm excited
to learn about them because I don't know much about the Dead Sea Scrolls. So I'm excited to learn
all about them. And then we have on Monday, the very next day, we have a past, past the turn
porn star. Well, that's an interesting conversation. You know, you know, from Dr. Phil,
you know, from Dr. Phil, her story is actually interesting. She was a preacher. You can still
watch her preachers on YouTube. And then she realized that she was queer. Like she started,
but you know how some people can like kind of realize that really late in life, she realized
she was queer. And then she didn't like how the Bible taught certain things. I'll send her,
I'll send her, I'll tell her about your book when we have a stream together. But that's Monday.
That's going to be a good one. And of course, the slavery panel, which is just wait. Yes,
just wait till you guys see the, the advertisements I've got for this. I've been working with,
with the skeptic, John, and we've made some funny, he's done some voiceover work and we've made
some, we're making some funny clips for this that are going to troll all the apologists.
So this is going to be a good panel, guys. Make sure you subscribe so you can check us out.
That is fun. Enough of that. Let's, so let's jump into, can you go over a little bit for,
because I'm sure a lot of people really care about it. What's your perspective on,
on, I guess, women in church. And then I guess we'll, we'll touch back on homosexuality, like
from a scholarly perspective. So why, evil's to see first, Jennifer, that's why. Yeah. So why,
why, so tell me like from a scholarly perspective, why, why should women have human rights? And so
sorry. Yeah. So from a scholarly perspective, how do you, how do you cross that bridge between
like the Bible says this on face value and how do you, you go over this in your book,
but maybe you can give us like a, an overall, like just a general perspective here and
people go check out the book, link in the description. But yeah, how do women become
pastors or have authority over men? Yeah. Yeah. So quick takeaway on that, I would say is
there are biblical passages, so passages in the newer, I call it newer, not the New Testament,
but the newer Testament has writings that, you know, coming from Paul saying, I commend to you,
Phoebe, the head of your church. Well, our English translations and potentially other
translations, I don't read anything other than English when I'm reading the Bible, but
I imagine it happens in other languages as well as my point. The translation tones down
her importance by, by calling her a servant or a, you know, instead of a minister.
And so Paul didn't ever talk about roles in the church. He talked about people having gifts,
right? And for in Romans 12 and first Corinthians 12, both chapters, he's talking about spiritual
gifts and the gifting that God gives you. And it's enlivened by the Holy Spirit and God gives.
So use your gifts, right? Use them for the body of Christ. No gendered language going on there
when it comes from the genuine Paul. So Romans and first Corinthians, just you've got to gift,
use it. So there's, that's really how to get to, to get to it. That's how people who need
the scripture to affirm something, that's how you get there. So when you say genuine Paul,
can you just touch on that briefly? Sure. I mean, there are 13 letters in the newer
Testament attributed to Paul. We're pretty, I, you know, most, everyone agrees that seven of
those 13, he definitely had a hand in, he and his letter writing buddies, I like to say, because
he didn't actually write them. They had an eminuensis. And he was, yeah, and he was collaborating.
He wasn't just coming up with this on his own. He was collaborating. I know that changed things.
All that Renaissance Christian art lied to me.
I love it. Well, that's interesting. Yeah. And then there's six letters that came along later.
And they're attributed to Paul, but you know, Paul was likely killed in the 60s. And these are
written much later. And whether or not he did write them doesn't matter. And it does. It depends
on the day and the topic. Because they're in there. That's what matters is they're in the canon.
But there are some reasons we can say, ah, he probably didn't have a hand in writing this,
but they wanted to attach it to Paul's name for various reasons. That's a quick way to get
exposure, right? Because people listen to Paul. Or maybe there was an idea in one of Paul's genuine
letters that took off in a way no one anticipated and it's causing problems. And so we're going to
come along in Paul's name and correct that to kind of shift the trajectory a little bit.
There are all kinds of reasons why none of the very few are actually negative,
but reasons why people would do that. So as a, like as a professor, when I'm,
you know, talking with my New Testament students this past week, you know, I was like, okay,
they're all in there. But let's talk about the fact that we have the early stuff that's genuine
Paul has more openness. It has more equality between men and women than we see in the later.
And that I think is a point that we can talk about whether or not he actually wrote them
because it shows us that thing, as things started to settle in and people started to need things
like defining roles and, you know, we're, people are watching us now. People are seeing this movement
and it's being observed and we need to make sure we're not being politically subversive or perceived
as being politically subversive. So all these things come along and that's why we have writings
like Colossians and Ephesians and First Peter that include these household code roles that
makes it much more patriarchal again or makes the hierarchy between men and women much more clear.
Did I, did that all connect to make sense? Yeah, that makes sense. And I love what you say
in the book. I'm not going to remember it correctly, but perfectly, but you say something along the
lines of like, you know, you don't, I imagine you don't see the Bible as the perfect ordained
word of God with, you know, you see, you see humanity as humans, you see humanity in it.
Like humans wrote it on behalf of, I guess you imagine the God. But what I find interesting
is you mentioned like, I wonder what the women would say, like I wonder what they would have said
if they had the chance to write down their thoughts, what are their perspectives on all
these things? You know, when, when the men are saying this, are they saying like, I don't really
think that's, that's accurate or I don't really think God's like, like what, what do they say? Yeah.
Yeah. And that actually, to me, brings us back to the one you referenced, the passage you referenced,
the, in 1st Timothy, I do not permit a woman to teach or have authority over a man.
And you also referenced the explanation or potential explanation for why, right,
that Eve was deceived first, and then, and then Adam, you know, when it says, you know, I,
there's a lot going on in 1st Timothy, in my opinion, that makes it hard to talk about it quickly.
But in general, I do think about that letter as a dressing. So some guy is a dressing,
whoever it is, doesn't matter to me. They're dressing what they're perceiving or what they're
hearing about that's happening. And they're telling a bunch of maybe chatty, chatty women,
I don't know, who are really intellectually curious and are talking, sharing the stories they're
hearing. He wants that to stop for whatever reason. And he just puts a kibosh on it instead of saying,
hey, can we talk about this? Which gets back to your point. What would women have said, you know,
how would they have, how would they tell the story differently? You know, and I think that applies
throughout the entire Bible. How would Sarah have told the story about Abraham almost sacrificing
Isaac, you know, like how, you know, I mean, we could just, we can go down the list on that.
But because, because something I've learned recently is women are people too.
So it's like, it's like, it's, it's, to me, to me, that's, to me, even, you know, even I was a
Christian, I couldn't, I find it hard to perceive the Bible as the, like as the, as God ordained,
I guess, because, because I would think that any holy text that has a very, like, if it was just
all written by women, and it was like, this is the holy text, I'd be like, I'd be like,
that's still missing half the, half the population, you know. So, yeah, for me, it's like, I wonder
where the women's voices are a lot of the time, like, why aren't they just as, just as there is
some men's voices. But yeah. Yeah. I love, actually, I'm glad that you, it's really lovely to hear
that you think that way. I, one of the assignments I give my interest students to the Hebrew Bible
is I asked them to write a letter from Sarah to Abraham after they read Genesis 12, where he
pimps her out to the Pharaoh, right? And it's fun. It's fun to read what they come up with, but some,
you know, and have you got any, have you got any horror stories about that? Have you got any, like,
like, trigger interesting? Well, like, have you got any, like,
anyone that's like, like, come up with an, kind of an excuse for it or something? Or like,
yeah, a lot of people that grow up in the church do a lot of explaining and justifying
and just saying, I know you're doing the best you could, or I know you still love me, you know,
all that kind of stuff. But I also get some really sassy, like, this is the note they left on the
kitchen table so he could read it in the morning and she's gone, you know, kind of,
it's a whole range, whole range. But my point was, then, you know, they've never had someone
actually bring this to their attention. So they've never stopped to think about it, that
you can bring this observation you've just made for us, David, into pretty much any past, you know,
any story in the Bible, even if with a female, maybe at the center, it's still being written by
men. And so even, you know, even Esther's story or Ruth's story, you know, they're still being
written by men, as far as we know. So, you know, it just isn't, it's a, even those stories might
need some help, you know. Yeah, yeah, of course. Part Bob said, Jennifer, I recently saw a debate
you had with a heavily indoctrinated young woman. I was impressed with how you were able to keep
your cool. Oh, thank you for saying that first of all. And I love, I've forgotten the dude's name,
but I love your icon, your profile picture. Tim mentioned hilarious. I love him. Thank you for
that pirate Barb. I tried really hard to be respectful to her with her. And it wasn't really,
yeah, I'm not a debate person because, because I don't find debating and arguing useful.
But there was a reason to do that. And so I did it. And that's nice of you to say, Barb. I, yeah.
Can you tell that I'm still of mixed feelings about that whole thing?
I'll have to, I'll have to check that one out. I'll have to find it when we finish, because I
don't know the reference. Well, and I was just saying, you don't need to, it's a three hour thing.
But I will say that my favorite part was when I finally just had the space. And I was, and I
just said to her, you know, and it was near the end. And I said, I just wish we could have this
conversation in 20 years, once she's had some life experience, because she's, you know, she's
just trotting out the lines she's been told she doesn't know any life behind these comments,
you know, and I'm like, Oh, yeah, well, when you've been pregnant and you're not trying to be
pregnant, this conversation is different. Yeah, that's exactly right. There's um, I, I, I have
so on deep drinks, I try to keep cool, calm and collected, but I, I'm the opposite. I love
instant blood sports. I love, I've got a, I've got a video on my, on my other channel where it's
just me laughing at this really racist homophobic, like Jew hating. He literally screams like,
Jews in the street, like this guy is a psycho. And he kept harassing me. And so I jumped on
and I just trolled him for 30 minutes, he jumped off. And it was so satisfying. It was really
enjoyable. So that's, I have two different sides. But um, so, so with homosexuality, so how do we
get, and I'm sure many people watching will appreciate this is how do we get, how do we get
from homosexuals should be put to death to same sex marriage is cool. How do you get,
how do you go from that biblically, scholarly? Okay. Do you need the 32nd version or the five
minute version? Look, this is deep drinks. Give us the longest version you possibly can. Yeah,
because the way you set that up was, was kind of interesting and helpful. How do you go from
these people should be put to death to their humans and, you know, whatever. Okay. So
they also are people I found. They are. I am, I do not identify, but I, so they are humans
that I don't want to talk about as being different for me, but they are. These are human. So yeah,
it's, you know, it's helpful, I think to look at the laws more broadly.
Um, when it comes to those claims about the laws that say to put to death, right, you, you know,
you're to put to death a couple that's having an affair, you're supposed to put them to death,
you're supposed to put to death anyone who kidnaps a person that is, that is just that requires or
somehow justifies the death penalty. Anyone who curses mother or father curses should be put to
death. So, you know, and then what's so interesting to me, which came, which I realized in writing
the book, which I mean, genuinely, it's so fun when you, when you keep, when you're able to keep
having new insights, like from reading scholarship or whatever, that list of, you know, in Leviticus
18 and 20, those lists of, you know, who a man cannot have sex with. Yeah. It's, it's like all
the women he would meet at a family reunion, right? You're not to have, you're not supposed to have
sex with any of these women, but I just never stopped to think about the fact that
we, those laws that those two sets of laws make it very clear that men are having sex outside of
marriage and these are the ones you just can't touch. Whoa. Interesting. Right. And they say,
yeah. Yeah. That's interesting. Yeah. So I don't know if I, if you picked that, if that was in your
book, or no, it's in the one I just wrote. Yeah. No, it's like, wait a minute. I hadn't thought
about it this way. And they had to put it in there twice, which is also interesting. And so,
you know, from a, from a historical perspective, I'm trying to calm down just a little bit,
just a little bit. No, don't calm down. Yeah. From a historical perspective, like
stop and think about the things that people needed to be told. And the, the, the level
at which they are legislating when it comes to laws, that, you know, the under any, the level of
the extreme punishments, right? That is, there's an extremity involved here that is not very
healthy or helpful, right? These are not good parenting techniques to just smite people for
whatever. Right. Okay. So I think it's helpful to start there that these are ancient laws that
tell us where they were coming from and how they viewed the world. So there's, there's a starting
point. The next thing I would suggest is the laws that do top, there are two, only two verses
in the Hebrew Bible and one or two in the newer Testament that address this whole conversation
about what we call homosexuality. And there's no evidence that they saw it this way at all,
an understanding of human sexuality as any kind of orientation. Okay. So they're not thinking
about it the same way. But those two laws, you know, a man shall not lie with a man that you
do a woman. You know, what was going on for them? Is that just the whole issue of don't waste your
semen? Because, you know, it's not going to, you can't impregnate another man. I think it's possible.
I don't think it's the main reason to be honest. But I do think that's part of it. You know, like,
we've got to populate and procreate. I think it really is more about just what we think of as
homophobia. I think it is more about this honor shame system, and that no man would ever allow
himself to be penetrated like a woman. No man would ever choose to be the passive one in sex.
And the reason I say that is, I think it's, it is deeply important to me for people to understand
the way sex is talked about in the Bible, is it is a thing a man does to a woman, not something a
couple enjoys together. It's a very common ancient trope to talk about sex, even philosophers,
second century BCE to third or fourth century common era, talked about sex as something that a man
does to a woman, or a lesser, someone lesser in class, or, you know, so it could be a young man.
But, you know, there's an active person and a passive person. This is the conception. And
no male, real true male with honor would allow himself to be put in that position. And so,
you know, that, that is, I do think, primarily what's going on in those two, in those two verses.
So, you know, so then, well, if that's what it says, then that's what God means. I'm like,
yeah, except for the fact that this is how we're born, right? We're born with things going on. And
I feel like there's a tangent here too, because I'm absolutely endorsed and support people. I
know plenty of women who identify more as a hetero, but have chosen to be in relationships with
women. And, you know, I'm totally fine with that. So it's complicated, but like, just in general,
when you come out of your mother's uterus with the wiring you've got, if you talk about God as
creating us, then God created that. And so, I just need to create some space to say who you are,
is how you, you know, is good. God, if you believe that God creates us, then this is a good thing,
who you are. And then you get onto, you know,
I had a pastor tell me, I'll call him out, Ellen Beatle. And he told me when the same
sex marriage proposal was happening. First of all, we had a same sex marriage proposal in Australia
where Australia was voting on whether or not the gays should be able to have the rights,
human rights, and be able to get married. Should be able to have the human rights, exactly.
And by the way, my friend Colin, he's like, you need to stop saying the gays, because people
think you're serious. But I'm saying it is, I'm saying it ironically, but anyway. So, you know,
and he said, one, he was quoting the game of this, this document called The Gay Manifesto,
as if it was real. It was a satirical piece from, I think, the 80s that was like, oh, you know,
we want to take over. And he was quoting it as real and even pointed it out. He still
continued to like, he didn't care. He just wanted a message. And secondly, he said to me, well,
the reason I said, why did Jesus talk about, I think, did Jesus talk about slavery? Maybe he
didn't or servants. Depends on how you want to ask that. Yes, he uses slaves in some of his parables.
Yeah, okay. And we'll talk about that on the panel. But on the slavery panel. But
I was like, why didn't Jesus mention homosexuality? Like, it's only mentioned in the New Testament
poll. And his answer was, because homosexuality wasn't a problem at the time in that area of the
world. So like, there was homosexuality in ancient, in the desert, as the Israelites were walking
through the desert for 40 years. I can't imagine that would have been a nice experience, sandy and dry,
right? For men to have sex with each other. And then when we get to, when we get to Rome,
you know, the churches in Romans, no homosexuality. No, no, no, no. That's why he didn't need to bring
it up because it wasn't a problem. It wasn't a problem. Yeah. You know, when I,
you know, because I do think through the Bible, like, what is the Bible saying? And how do we,
you know, how do we use it to say positive things? And, you know, at the end of the day,
there are some passages that are just hurtful and that are, I think, are just outright wrong.
And so, you know, I've come to a place where I'm okay with that. And I know how to make sense of
that for myself. It is not a place I was 10 years ago, 15 years ago, or whatever. When I started
seminary, I wasn't there because I needed scripture to affirm something for, in order for it to be
okay for me. I needed that. And, you know, what's interesting to me is when you come at that
conversation, those who need the Bible to affirm something in order for it to be okay today,
well, I've got news for those folks. The Bible doesn't anywhere affirm a loving marriage entered
into by two equals. Well, yeah. So, so if we're gonna, if we need it to affirm it, it doesn't.
Well, I'm sorry, Jennifer. I went to a wedding yesterday and you, you would, you must be wrong
because that's all that was talked about, you know, a cord of three strands is not easily broken.
And we bring, you know, yeah. So, that's interesting. I never actually thought about,
about that concept that that isn't marriage. The idea of love in marriage is kind of a modern.
It is a modern thing. Yes. And the, and the passages that people like to have read at weddings,
first Corinthians 13, like, that's beautiful. Some of it I still don't like, but, but it's,
it's still, he was talking to the community. He wasn't talking to a couple at the altar,
getting married. He was talking to how we treat each other. Right.
Interesting. Ephesians five off. I had this awkward moment where I was teaching a New
Testament class. And one of my students got married that term and asked me to come to his
wedding. And I did. And it was two weeks after I had just torn Ephesians five apart in class.
And of course, what's the Ephesians five Ephesians five 21 to 33, the, you know,
women submit yourself submit to your house. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. As you do the Lord and men love
your wives. And then that whole thing about this is a mystery. And I'm referring to Christ in the
church. Yeah. Anyway, yeah. My wife actually, they read that out yesterday. My wife said,
I didn't like that bit. I was like, yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Not no disrespect to them, by the way,
like if they're watching and obviously we love you, but yeah, it was just different perspective.
And part of it is they probably never stopped to think it through or, or even think that went
through critically. You know what I mean? It just sounds lovely when you read it with the right
tone of voice. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's like, and we will talk about this on the panel, but,
you know, the apologists apologetics I'm going through for slavery is amazing. The way they,
they re they reword something like Paul Copen in his book, he's got a moral monster.
He talks about, this is amazing. This is so amazing talking about tone. He talks about
owning another human being as property so that you can pass them on to your children as inheritance.
Right. So you're doing it. Yeah. He talks about that as in, he talks about that as, as like,
oh, well, you know, if the slave really enjoyed the social and benefits and became part of the
family, he could even stay there and be, you know, like he talks about like the slave is like, oh,
yeah, I'd love to be a slave. Like it's, it's crazy. It's, it's, it's crazy. We got a super chat
from Nitty. Thank you so much, Nitty. Finally, yes, we are monetized. It makes a huge difference
really, really, really hard. Yeah, Nitty is great guy and he's been on the channel before. Everyone
goes subscribe to Nitty. He's got good content. There's the other thing too. I want to mention
to everyone that this, to me, this is, I'm making this my full-time job. I want to continue to do
deep drinks podcast and be able to produce content around scholarship, human rights, religion,
philosophy, maybe science even. And so if you want to help us get there, obviously, super chatting
is awesome, watching these, sharing these streams, awesome liking. And straight after this on the
Patreon, I'm going to be doing a live stream, an unlisted live stream talking about how I
prepare for an interview, going through how I get all the notes, how I find my guests,
and what I do to, to kind of put together a show for anyone who's interested in that, which I don't
think too many people will be, but I need to start somewhere with the currency and stuff, right?
Yeah, yeah, if you want to support and become one of the first 12, go check that out. And thank you,
Nitty. I did want to ask you, Jennifer, how, where do you get your morality from, if not from the
Bible? That's like, that's a question that I know so many, so many, and it's a bit of a troll question,
but it's, it's, I know it's a question that a lot of, a lot of people will ask you, like, if you,
if they ground their morality and what they, in the Bible, which I like what Dr. Josh says, he says,
if you do that, you don't know slavery's wrong, right? But, but if you don't get your, where do
you start from with your morality? Like, like, because you talk, okay, let me back up, you talk
about your litmus test in the, in your book. Maybe you could touch on that and then we could go into
where do you get your morality from? Like, how do you, how do you determine what's right and wrong
in the first place? I was thinking I might read that part. Is that awkward? Yeah. No, absolutely
not. I was going to do it, but I don't have the copy. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Next three weeks for
anything to get to Australia, which is a bummer, but yeah, no, I know. Let's see, I start with this,
this some of you might be wondering now what questioning a literal reading of the Bible
or the typical way of reading certain passages can set in motion even more questioning. I recall
having quite a knee jerk reaction to it all thinking, if this one thing about the Bible is not true,
in the way I thought the whole Bible was true and trustworthy, then where does it stop?
What is to keep someone from challenging all of it? That's the free slope. So that's,
you know, that's where I, that's where I start this kind of wrapping it up.
And throughout this book, I'm asked, I'm asking people to just be very honest about what's there
and to not try to explain it away, but just sit with it. And that's when people start to get
uncomfortable because you realize you've been told you've been given ways to explain it all
away, but I'm asking you not to. And so yeah, I guess this is where I talk about my litmus test,
I'm trying to think, remember if it's right here. Oh, as I've talked through passages,
I've held up my own lens for you to see how I view scripture. Your lens or litmus test will be your
own. And perhaps it'll be quite different from mine. The important part for those of you who
turn to the Bible for daily guidance or for theological claims is to be aware that your
engagement in the world is directly affected by how you read the Bible. It's not the part I thought
it was, but anyway, I think it is important for you to be conscious of what your litmus test is,
and to be assured that it is okay if it's different from what you were taught it should be.
Where's the part where I talk about it? Anyway, oh, here it is. Sorry, is this weird? Is this okay?
No, this is not weird at all. This is not weird at all. And I'll do the same thing,
especially because you've read this in 2015 or as published in 2015. Yeah, that's a long time ago.
It is. And I've read it last year, it's been a while. So personally, I hold my understanding
of who God is and is not as my lens in every encounter with scripture, which is a whole
different conversation to be honest, because if I'm going to posit that there is God,
then I want to say that it looks nothing like God who's described in the Bible. So that's,
I don't get into all that here in the book because it's too much, but I did a conversation with
Derek on Mithvision called Redefining God, and that's actually one of the books I still want
to write. So whatever that three-letter word means to you, David, or to your listeners,
I imagine it might not actually mean the same thing as what I mean by God. Just putting that out
there, okay? But I have a witness test for scripture and theological claims. If a biblical
passage or theological doctrine endorses freedom, liberation, love, the fullness of life for all
people, or a mature and responsible faith, then it is of God. When I see a passage that depicts God
as wrathful or as dealing deathblows to his supposed enemies or even to his own people,
for instance, then that passage does not pass the test. When there are passages that contain
belittling words or that endorse arbitrary restrictions of people, I assume those passages
were inspired by human desires, not a loving and reconciling God. Most of all, I believe in the
ability of human beings to make ethical, loving, and moral choices. This is what binds us together.
I believe that when a biblical passage does not endorse such choices,
then we need to be able to call it out instead of finding a way to uphold it anyway.
So you asked me where my morality comes from. I think it comes from my family. I think it comes
from my experiences as a female. And it comes from observing the doctrines of the church and
realizing how harmful many of them have been for me. And so I think I actually more, if I gave
myself a label, I would call myself a humanist. And I believe in the ability of humans to be
fill in the blank. There's a handful of things there. So my morality comes from the fact that
I've listened to people and I've observed and I've tried to do a lot of reading. I've tried
to be in touch with what's going on in the world. I've tried to hear from perspectives very different
from mine. And I think of morality as what is it that's good for people? And I know that's
a weird thing to say. I'm just kind of on the spot kind of trying to define it for you.
No, that makes sense. And that's great. I hold the same values. I try and
I have a very interesting take on morality, I guess. I kind of disagree with a lot of the
philosophical philosophers on this, actually. There's a big meta-analysis of
there was this big thing on like they asked a bunch of moral philosophers.
Where do they think a bunch of questions and one of them was is morality objective or subjective,
essentially. And the majority of them are morality's objective.
These aren't Christians either. No, I know. They're just delusional slightly. They don't
realize it. What part of human experience is objective? None of it.
Yeah. Well, it's wild. And it makes me pause because I'm like, okay, well, if the majority
of scholars are saying it's, I don't think they use the word objective. It's like something else.
It's been a while since I looked into it. But I go even further than then. And it's interesting
because I want to learn more about this because I want to see where I'm wrong. Because obviously,
these people think about this a lot more than I do. So I want to kind of learn with this. But
with this subjectivity, I don't even go further than subjectivity. I don't even think morality
really exists. I think people just operate within their own preferences. I think societies get built
on these preferences. I think that tradition and culture plays a part of it, how you're raised.
And I don't really think morality exists. And I think that
so I'm kind of a morally anti-realist in a way that I think that I just think people just operate
within their preferences. And it's like, so how does someone go to prison? Yeah,
how does one go to prison, though, in that situation where what they did wasn't truly wrong?
It's like, well, morality exists in that it's something I don't like.
Someone can come in and physically abuse me now and I wouldn't like that. So I could call that
wrong. But ultimately, that thing I'm calling wrong is that there's nowhere in the universe
I can point to and say, there is morality. So that's where I come from. I hope I'm making
sense. And if not, I'll do a video on it. But so what are your perspectives on morality? So you
have this litmus test, right? A lot of Christians would say to you, where do you get your morality
from if not from the Bible? Right, right. And I can't... How do you... Yeah, well, and I would say
that since I grew up in the church, for sure, I think on some level that constructed some things
for me, maybe in my thinking. But I disagree with so much of what the Bible asserts. And I'm okay
saying that. And I'm okay saying, thinking with my framework, and I'm okay, I think I'm actually
a much more moral person, a much more loving and kind and compassionate person, now that I don't
need the Bible to tell me what to think the way I did in my 20s. So I think it's an interesting
question, because there's this part of me that when you ask me that question, where does morality
come from? I go off into that world of, well, we kind of all have some sort of thing in us
that says yes and no. And then there are also people who are so cute, sociopaths or psychopaths,
and they don't have the same no or yes that we do, or that most of us do. So then that's the thing
you got to deal with, you got to be honest, right? So that's why I referred to, I have tried to listen
to, I've tried to listen to stories, I've intentionally sought out when I didn't understand
immigration issues, or when I didn't understand racial, like when I first started trying to
understand the racist elements I had been given because of where I grew up, I intentionally sought
out stories and people that would help me understand. So I, you know, that from my perspective,
that is where I get my morality, is that I am aware that I don't have the false picture here,
and I'm actively finding others to help me fill it in from their perspective. I try to be sensitive
to where other people, who other people are, where they are coming from. And I think that's why
there's this general golden rule that has shown up around the globe in the ancient world, right?
Treat others as you would like to be treated. That's a pretty basic thing that lots of people
have said at various points in time, and we kind of keep coming back to that, I think, you know?
Yeah. Yeah. It's interesting, I've heard critiques of that, and like some people like to be,
you know how like there's like sexual fetishes where people have to be like stepped on and like
whipped and stuff? So it's like, it's like, well, if you treat people like you want to be treated,
like, you know what I mean? Right, right. We're not all into BDSM. Yeah, exactly.
Kip Davis, that's Dr. Kip Davis, who's, his tomorrow, make sure you come out tomorrow,
because we're gonna be, we're gonna be drinking Canadian whiskey, and he's getting ready to,
I think, test me, and I've got a family dinner afterwards, so I'll probably be drunk. But should
I sacrifice my firstborn to ensure that the Calgary Flames make it to the playoffs? It seems
like a long shot, and I have no daughters to sell. That's a good question. Yeah, it is. It's very
relevant. If morality is not objective, it's not definable, I could see that. Yes and no. Can you
go back to that? Because here's the thing, what, you know, aside from like math and
some, not even all math, but like some parts of science, those sciences still highly subjective
at times, right? The only thing, it's like math is the only thing that you can call the proofs.
Yeah, right. That was my favorite class. I was a math major in undergrad. It was my favorite
class, proofs, and all the like the history math. But so, you know, when you want to, if you, if we,
I find it interesting, and I love that Ray posed the question. Thank you, Ray, because,
or posed the challenge, if it's a retort, or if it's, I don't know if Ray actually thinks that
the, we're crazy for saying that it's subjective, or they're just offering this as a,
Ray's a major troll in the chat. No, I'm kidding. Oh, gotcha. I'm kidding. I'm kidding. He's not,
he's not. Okay. I'm like, what was, so, okay. Yeah. If it's, if it's not objective,
it's not definable. I mean, that, I think that that's an interesting place to start,
but I don't agree with that, because everything, see a lot, like we can define our human experiences
from our perspectives, and that will be utterly subjective. Now,
you know, I think on some level, this challenge gets back to your point, David, that
you're not sure that there's, you do not believe that there's a thing out there that holds the
tag of morality, right? Like it's not a thing you can point to, but that humans actually do,
we do, we act out of what works for us. And that's why this issue of rearing children well,
you know, in the formative ages is really important, because that's what's going to happen.
Whatever they're given is how they're going to behave. And so,
but it's still definable on a certain level, isn't it?
I think, well, yeah, I think, I think that it's ultimately not definable, but I think that it's
definable within a certain, like within a context, within a framework, right? Like that's how I
kind of do it. I kind of agree with what you're saying. Like, so there's, there was a story,
I don't know how accurate I'm getting this, but essentially this guy tragically killed his family,
then killed himself. And he wrote this in his suicide note, you know, please, I've been acting
very strange the last few months, please do an autopsy on my brain, right? And an autopsy on his
brain, and they discovered that he had a tumor pressing on a growing, pressing on the part of
his brain that was in control of emotional something. I mean, it's because I'm not on neuroscience,
I just imagine the brain's like, you know, you press on this bit and something was affecting
his brain. And so I had this interesting conversation with Shannon Q about this because she knows a
lot about neuroscience. And I was like, you know, where do we, where's the free will in that?
And I'm also someone who thinks things of the universe is more deterministic. So I imagine,
like, if you were to, and maybe you could talk about this because you're a maths major, but,
but like, if you were to like push a rock down a hill, and it was to, if you knew every variable,
the wind, what it would bounce on, the friction of the rock, every variable, you could predict with
100% certainty where that rock was going to land. Well, and you could run that experiment a billion
times over and it would land in the exact same spot. I mean, there are quantum fluctuations,
but we're not going to worry about that, like just in this hypothetical. So it would land in
the same spot. Well, I just think the brain is a much more complicated version of a rock and a
hill. And I think that human society is much more complicated version of that and the universe is
much more complicated. So I'm more of a determinist, determinist in that I don't think, I think free
will is a bit of an illusion. But the interesting question is, from all of that preamble is how
do you then send someone to prison for something that they did that essentially wasn't their choice?
It was their choice, but they're always going to do that based on the chemical structure of their
brain and the environment they grew up in. And I'll give you my answer and then you can comment.
I think as a society, we have to act as if free will exists in order to have a functioning society.
Like it's almost like we have to bite the bullet and go, we have to pretend free will exist.
Otherwise society would just be chaos, like people would just be, you could just do whatever
you wanted, right? So it's almost like this fast, this line that we have to tell ourselves.
I mean, no one thinks about this as deeply as a lot of me and other nerds online, but
but like we have, from my perspective, we have to pretend as if we do have free will
in order to keep a functioning society. What are your thoughts on that? On all of that?
Yeah, I have lots of thoughts on all of that actually. And I, yeah, so I'll try to choose the
ones that I think are most important because I love that. I love the premise. I love the
comments you've thrown out there, right? We have to pretend that we have free will in order,
but doesn't that whole thing about, you know, I don't know, I'm not going to be able to put
my thoughts towards is the problem here. It's a hard one. It takes about six months thinking
about it before I could. So you know, so here's the thing, like I really hate the whole conversation
about free will because because the men who came up with it were not taking into consideration
all of the social factors and economic factors and all these other things. So
that actually do impact the way we do behave, which is part of what you were getting at, right?
Like people who are denied access to all kinds of things, education, safety, right? Feeling safe
in their neighborhood and ability to have a solid job that makes productivity joyful or lovely or
whatever. Like there are just so many factors that play into why people end up doing things that
end up being really awful and bad, right? And so the same goes for the theological claims
and philosophical claims about free will because show me a female who's actually walking down the
street at night doing exactly what she would like to do instead of thinking about all the
ways she's trying to protect herself. Like that's not free. And so the concept of free will in and
of itself drives me fucking crazy. I just hate it. And I agree with your concept with the point
maybe just maybe. Yeah, maybe this was a conversation for our ayahuasca episode. Yes. Yeah,
I think so because I get really conscious. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Because yeah, I
yeah, no, no, keep keep going. I was just making it interesting idea. Yeah, I get really I
I, yeah, I mean, part of it is also there's the Augustinian concept of free will, who's,
you know, early on and affected all the Catholics in the room, you know, and then there's the other
the later reformation thing about free will, which is more about whether or not you've actually
get to go to heaven of your choice. And, you know, is the free will in terms of all the things I
might do in my life, free will, is that what we're talking about? Are we talking about like,
you know, where you destination? It's like, it's a whole, it's like a whole other conversation.
Like, we could do a, we could do a whole other episode on just that and not touch the services.
I just want, I just think that it's really important, at least to me as a woman, as a scholar,
that, that it's even at your question that you posed about how is it, how is it right to send
someone to prison if, if there is no such thing as free will? And, and I, and I ultimately resonate
with that, what I understand you to be posing there, because I think that, I think that, that
those, the, the realities that people are born into, and the hundreds of years of issues that
have led up to them and us, right? I think those are not taken seriously enough in these larger
conversations or philosophical conversations about something like morality, because it's just,
it's complex. And most people have never stopped to think about it that way.
Yeah, it's very, it's very complex. You can devote your whole life to,
you could, to, to thinking about that.
Cheryl Lyle, thank you. Cheryl's amazing. She's the first saint. She's the first
disciple on Patreon. She was the first person to support us and she will always be immortalized
there. It's so weird. It's so weird. I love it. So, and also, thank you so much, Cheryl, for
subtracting as well. That's amazing. Every, every bit of money that we get helps me by
different, helps me work better towards creating more interviews and getting more,
more people on and be able to focusing more on my time on this and I'm running really hard. But
Cheryl Lyle said, Dr Bird, how would you respond to a Christian apologist such as Michael Brown,
Sean McDowell and John Wyatt who have different, different, who have a different response to
homosexuality than you do? I would want to have a conversation, not a debate. I think Cheryl knows
that. But, you know, I don't, I, to be honest, I don't read them or listen to them or read their,
like, I don't go there. I don't, it's hard enough to do the work I'm trying to do without, like,
constantly being reminded of the, the, the, what I consider to be under informed thinking.
You know, and so I would have to imagine a few comments first. I would need a few comments to
respond well to this, to this question. What kinds of things are they saying? You know, because,
because my sense is most of the apologists are taking what they've been told the Bible says
about homosexuality and saying that that is actually true and then going from there. You know, so,
so, and I think Cheryl can appreciate this. My first few thoughts are, you know,
I, I'd want to educate and that's not, that's, that's, that's kind of rude and pompous for me to
even say that. No, well, I think you've got every right to educate, but you're, you're the top of
your field and like, you're the top, you can't get any more educated than you currently are in New
Testament and early Christianity, right? Like, there's not like PhD 2.0, like, yeah. I think, you
know, and I, I guess it really just, yeah, that's why I'm, I feel like I'm not going to do this justice.
You know, are they saying, for instance, are they saying things like what says in, you know,
1st Timothy and whatever in 1st Corinthians 6 that says, well, actually no. So they're not actually,
you know, those, the, we could get into conversation about that, that the Greek there
is Arsene Coits and that word itself, we don't know what they mean by that word, Arsene Coits,
because that you pull the word apart, that's man, Arsene, and Coits sounds similar to Coits,
right? Because it should, right? Lying with a man, having sex with a man, or is it a man having sex
with a man? Like, we don't know what Arsene Coits actually refers to in terms of practices and
behaviors. But, but really, any of the passages in the Bible are talking about sex acts, they're
not talking about human beings. And that's to be expected, because that's, that's the level they
were functioning at was these acts. And so denigrating certain acts, and instead of having any sort of
a foundation for being able to say humans come in a range of preferences, orientations, desires,
all of those kinds of things. So, so the writers of the scriptures didn't understand humanity,
didn't understand sexuality the way we can know and understand it today. So that's, you know,
those are the things that are important to me to bring up about what is in the Bible,
right? The Bible talks about sex and sex acts, it doesn't talk about human beings.
And they have a very limited perspective on what kind of sex is appropriate,
or okay. And this, even just the concept of monitoring what people do, right? Like, really,
you know, and people want to ask questions like the references to fornication. Well, what,
what did they mean by that word? Did they mean any sex that doesn't, that couldn't lead to procreation?
So 90% of the sex that heteros are having? Yeah, there's a lot of, there are a lot of,
I'm not sure if you've heard about this, but there are, there are two things I want to discuss.
There are a lot of people who engage in anal sex, like a lot of heterosexual couples who
engage in anal sex as a way to save their virginity. So like, and then there are a lot of,
then there's this thing called soaking, which has become popular in Mormonism. Have you
heard about soaking? Yeah, I think. Is this the... So they won't, so they don't consider it sex if
no one's moving. So what they'll do... Yes, they have friends moving them. Yeah, they literally lie
on a bed and like, kind of like, fall into one another. Yeah. Right. We're men into the female,
and then they'll have someone jump on the bed so that, so they're not moving the bed. Right.
Someone's moving them instead. Yeah. And it's like, wow, okay. All right. That doesn't sound fun,
but like, okay, like... The lengths people go to to... Yeah. Yeah. I've often thought, and I'd like
to get your perspective on this, just as we're wrapping up, is I've often thought that maybe when
Paul or Pseudo Paul or whoever it was that was writing, that these people were not inherently
kingdom of God, they lost full of whatever, the drunkards, all that stuff, and the homosexuals.
I wonder if the homosexuality, and this is an educated opinion, an educated thought, but
I wonder if that homosexuality wasn't referenced to, like, a loving homosexual relationship,
but maybe because it's in the context of sexual immorality, maybe it's talking about,
maybe the concept is like, a heterosexual man so overfilled with lust that he has sex with a man.
You know what I mean? Like, he's like, it's like the inability to control himself. It's like,
or it's like rape, or it's like something to do with, you know, we're stuck on an island together
for, you know, six weeks, let's give each other handjobs. Like that kind of... I wonder if it's
like that, if it's like the, if it's that kind of thing, rather than being overfilled with lust,
and then therefore engaging in homosexual acts, rather than, like, I guess, people who love each
other or who are expressing that through their love. And also, where are the women in all this?
Why can't women, you know... Why do they not care how women have sex? Yeah.
Yeah, a random aside, and this is, sorry to ramble so much, but I just have to get this out, but
I'm doing a panel on purity culture soon. One of the things that bothered me so much about
when I spoke to a lot of women about purity culture on the show, like Heath and Queen and
things like that, and Emily from Feral Passes, why? They were talking about, like, they were taught
in church that essentially they needed to cover up, because essentially men wouldn't be able to
control themselves. And men, we were taught, you won't be able to control yourself, so you need to,
like, don't masturbate, don't look at porn, don't, you know, try really hard to kind of fight
like those urges. And then we'd have these, like, clubs where we would all, like, try to go see how
long we could go without masturbating, and we would call each other and say, pray, and the other
person would go and pray, because that person was horny, and then Sunday would come around, and then,
you know, Martha, the receptionist at church, was wearing a blouse that showed one centimeter of
cleavage, and we're like, I can't take it! And then, you know, the thing that bothered me about all
of this is, why weren't women taught that they could be lustful? It's like they
weren't even acknowledged that women could be like lustful, like pornography, masturbation,
that they want to, like, objectify men. It was almost like, you know, feminists came out of me,
and I was like, hey, women can be dirtbags as well! Like, it doesn't have to be, it's kind of annoying
that, like, that it was taught in such a way, that it was taught, like, the 1950s version of
marriage where the woman grits her, the lady grits her teeth, and the man just, like, has his way
and then moves on with his day. Like, it's just, anyway, do you have any comments on?
So many, so many. One, that whole thing, the scenario you just set up, right, it's all about
the man doing to a woman. This is ancient thinking about sex. There you go, right? This isn't about
what humans might actually want to enjoy together, discover and figure out together.
There's no healthy, there isn't a healthy conversation about sex and sexuality at all.
And your point is really important. Why are, I mean, I know people who don't think that women
can masturbate. Like, you know, like, they don't think that it's, they don't even realize it's a
thing a woman could do. Oh, wow. Right? Exactly. Especially when it's a woman who doesn't know that
you could do this, right? Yeah. So, I mean, there are all kinds of thoughts that went through my
mind. Mostly, I just wanted to, like, say, I'm so glad that you could see those things and see this
is a problem and perpetuating the problem by the way they're trying to fix the problem, right? I
mean, that's part of what's happening. I like to talk about the issue of the label virgin and
virginity. It's not really a thing. I like to talk about that. And I have a thing in my next book
about that, that it's really just a construct to further, you know, keep women in their place or
keep them as property and blah, blah, blah. You know, gosh, there's so many things to say. I just,
I appreciate that, that people's discomfort with human bodies and with
people have have inherited most people, you know, the people that have been
that created the purity culture and that perpetuate it, it's, it's been a part of what they were
immersed in. And so I want to be compassionate about why people think such horrifically
underinformed things about sexuality and human bodies. And I think that the church gives most
people very negative perspectives on bodies and whatever thing it is that a body yours, you know,
wants and desires. And so there's a lot of negativity on just normal natural human urges or
desires. You know, and so even going back to your comment about like an over sex or a very
highly sex, whatever you want to say, like horny, you know, man wanting to have sex with another man,
like I, I think it's really fascinating that we want to judge at all. Yeah. And, and so I,
that's a good point. I think that we could, you know, I mean, I responded to that woman,
the young woman influencer, Christian influencer, who like went off about masturbation as like
Satanic and all this stuff. And I'm like, she strikes me as someone who could use an orgasm,
you know, like, you know, that's, it's really, it's really sad. Hey,
I think so here's the thing, you know, there were a lot of things very freeing for me
when I stopped needing to attend to what scripture told me. I changed my, you know,
I changed my outfit, my attire for my boyfriend, you know, so I wouldn't cause him to stumble.
Like that's just, it's, I, I understand that thinking and I also am glad I'm not there anymore,
you know. Yeah. I eat a lot, I eat a lot of junk food so that I don't cause my wife to
I don't want her, you know, I don't want it. It's funny. I used to, we used to have a roommate
who was like ripped like a Greek God. He'd go to the gym twice a day and stuff. He'd walk around,
he'd walk around the house and like these shirt off him with his like, his like,
lycra or whatever. And I'm like, hello man. I'm like, you're making me look like an asshole.
Like you just, you walk around like a Greek God. I'm sitting here with like a bowl of ice cream,
trying to watch a South Park or a movie or something. Right. Right. Yeah. Anyway.
Causing your wife to stumble. Yeah. Yeah. I was like, stop. He calls me to stumble.
Exactly. Yeah. I have a few questions that I'd like to throw at you. And the first one is a
question that I just, and I always end with a couple of deep questions. But this is one I just
thought up. Okay. How do you resonate with Marcian? Do I resonate with Marcian? Is that what
you're asking? Yeah. Or how do you resonate with him? Do you like him? Do you like his idea that he
kind of, he kind of rejected the cruelty of the Old Testament God and believed in, and yeah,
but what do you thoughts on Marcian? I like his, his chutzpah. What's that? Chutzpah. His, his
willingness to do his own thing. Okay. And his ability to say no to that. I like that. And I
like, I respect that. You know, Marcian was a whole bunch of things. He wasn't just this guy who
said no to the Old Testament God. You know, but, but I like, it's very complicated for me to be
honest. Okay. Because, okay, well, and here's the thing, when you, when you throw out just
metaphorically speaking, you know, the Hebrew Bible or whatever, you're also, you're also saying
something about the people that do use that collection as their scriptures. So even if he's
not trying to be anti-Judaic, that is also anti-Judaic. So I'm not a big fan of that.
Yeah. And do I personally uphold the, the Hebrew Bible God? No. And nor do most Jews that I know.
Yeah. Right. And even if they're not, even if they're devout, they don't actually uphold
all of the, they don't endorse all of the descriptions attributed to God, because many
of them are pretty harsh. There are also some pretty harsh descriptions of God,
depictions of God in the newer Testament. It's just that most people don't see it that way,
or they read right past it, or, and I think, you know, I have a, I have a video,
the depiction of God in both Testaments, like God is loving and cruel in both.
And that's important to me, that people grasp that. So Marcian also didn't have a problem with a lot
of Paul's letters, and I do. Okay. Yeah. Interesting. Interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Wow.
With my short response to your question. Yeah. No, that's, that's a good response.
Yeah, that's, that's great. And, of course, I have to ask you just briefly. Okay. What are your
thoughts on slavery? We have a panel coming up. And what are your thoughts on slavery? Guys,
just so you're aware, this is the dream team, like, panelists, like, we, we're going to,
I'm going to be creating these videos, like I said, that are going to be kind of trolls to the,
to the, to the trollers. Yeah, to the trollers. So we have Dr. You know, we, we just have to look,
just go look at this panel, like, it's just, it's just wild, like that we have so many,
I won't read out all everyone's credentials or anything, but it's just crazy that we've got
all these guys together, or you guys to come on and talk about this, because it'll be, to me,
it's going to be the one stop shop. It's going to be like, we're going to, we're very formalized,
aren't we? We've got, we've got, like, we've got, I've got nine pages of notes from apologists.
And everyone's putting in, like, we're going to be creating a bibliography so people can go and do
further reading into, like, scholarly resources. You'll be talking about the New Testament and
early Christianity, and slavery. So what are your thoughts? Can you give everyone a teaser on
slavery in the New Testament? You know, what's, what was fascinating to me was to, like, realize
some of the ways that just general things that Paul says very casually often refers to followers as
slaves of Christ, slaves of God, which our translations cover over, so I wasn't aware of that.
There were some things for me just learning about reading some of my, my colleagues, some of their
scholarship on slavery and the rhetoric of slavery and how common that is in the New Testament writings,
observing that Jesus refers to enslaved peoples and some of his parables, and he doesn't
problematize it. He just assumes that we have slaves going on in these stories and their realities
are being held up to emulate, like, what? This is way too complicated. Like, this makes me very
uncomfortable. The topic of slavery in the New Testament, much less in early Christianity,
is way more complex than most people realize, way more than I did before I started reading this. So
it's actually, I'm really excited to get to share some of the, like, try to pull together and succinct
kind of, you know, bullet points for everyone. There's more going on here than just slaves obey
your masters that happens three times in the New Testament, which is problematic enough, right?
There's more going on than we realize. So I'm excited.
It's gonna be, it's gonna be, it's gonna be really good. And I love that you use, you say you use
the word Old Testament and New Testament. I use Hebrew Bible and New Testament. New Testament
is the Book of Mormon, the New West Testament. Which Book of Mormon? Because, you know, they
have an updated, they have an update every year. Oh, I didn't, I didn't know that. I didn't know
that. There is a Book of Mormon, but they have constant, like, updates. And guys, make sure,
Tamari, check out. I'm just laughing because I just know that Dr. Kip and I are gonna,
gonna, the whiskey is going to be flowing. And, you know, look at that iron maiden shirt,
the very first question. Kip, if you're still here, I want you to start thinking about this.
What are your top five favorite metal bands? Because I need to talk to you about this.
That's how we'll start off the young podcast. So check us out tomorrow. It'll be live, as always.
So I got a couple more quick questions. This one is, is from Ken Ham and the Bill Nye Debate.
This is the one question that, that seeing how Bill Nye handled it and Ken handled him, handled it,
changed my book, maybe go hang on a second, which was, what if, what if anything would change your
mind? And I guess because, well, you're a Christian scholar, but I guess we can talk about, I guess,
and we haven't talked about this much, but your actual belief in God. So what if anything would
change your mind on your belief in God? Well, I have changed my mind about my belief in God over
the years, right? So I, I had a very fundamentalist conservative evangelical way of thinking about
that was very closely tied to my upbringing in the church. But I had a very similar, like, what does the,
I'm like, what is that? I had a, that's really funny. I had a, a very biblical
impression, right? The way, a very transactional God is there. I can say, I'm sorry to God,
God will forgive me. All things are great. And I can talk to God all day and seek God and be open
to ideas. And, and then I went to seminary and I started thinking, learning about other ways of
thinking about what God is, but all still very human and they very anthropomorphic claims and
concepts and attributes. And this is a, that this is a relationship, which implies give and take,
which implies intentionality on the part of God to me or towards us in general. And I, most of
that is just out the window for me. Like most of that is just not there anymore. Intentionality,
like, no, sorry, no. God's will, I just, I've been trying that to drop too many,
too much language here because, but I, I do like, like, oh, fuck no, like, no, God's will,
no, please stop. Yeah, I hate the concept of God's will, right? According to whom? Like, who's,
you know, and just, so the best, the closest I come, if I'm going to claim a concept of God,
the closest I would come is to a very, very progressive process theology concept. Because,
and I say progressive process, because a lot of process theology is still giving God a little bit
of intention or relationality. And I, I'm just not there anymore. And so, you know, I go more
towards this, I don't know, energy. And actually, actually, it's, it's Butler, it's Octavia Butler.
She, she describes God about the best that I've seen. And she describes it as
change. As what? Change. Change. Okay. Interesting. Interesting. That is, if you go read her two pair,
her two parable novels, she, she talks about it there. And that is the closest I've seen
a human try to describe and, and, and put words to what is God. Interesting. Yeah. They're good
reads. They're quick, easy, but also really meaty. Do you talk to me about like, what are the books
called? Do you remember the parable of the sewer and parable of the, I get them confused. What
there's yeah, sewer and, and parable of a tenants talents talents. Yes, that's it. Yes. Okay, cool.
So parable of the sewer and parable of the talents. Yeah. Yeah. So she was amazing. And anyway, so
that's the closest I can, sorry, back to you, what you were saying, something else. I just, I'm
like, I just can't say enough, like, I love that she tried to put it into a novel form and to have
like a conversation about what it means and looks like. But I mean, look around you, look at nature.
What is the one constant thing about nature that it is growing and changing? It constantly
changes and it is fierce and intense. And you know what I mean? Like there's just, but there's,
there's not, there's not harsh intentions. It just happens and it goes and it grows and it, and it
keeps going. And I don't know. Have you heard about, you know, I know that you're not a huge fan of
Sam Harris and we'll, I mean, I like it. I like his ideas. I just don't like his, his sassiness.
Yeah, yeah. And his disrespectfulness of people that aren't, that don't think the way he does.
Which is funny, because he's like a, he's like a milk toast version of Richard Dawkins that
agrees or someone like that. But he talks about this, like this, I can't remember what a book
it was, maybe it was Waking Up. But in, he talks about like someone having like a top of an epileptic
fit where they needed to cut their brain in half to cut the synapses in half. So there was like
one part of the brain and the other part of the brain. So they weren't connected anymore.
Huge fatality risk in this, but it was the only thing that they could do. But what they found,
what was super interesting in people who have this surgery is they can answer with two,
do you know about this? They can answer differently. So they can verbalize an answer and then point
to a yes or a no or spell it out with their hand and it'll give different answers because one side
of the brain is the analytical moving part and one part of the brain is, and they ask them stuff
like, who do you, who should be the next president and all this stuff? And they ask them, do you
believe in God? They point to no and then say yes. And that's wild to me. That's really cool.
And yeah, it's really wild to me. And so there's always a part of me because that,
you know, I can kind of almost get on board with concepts like that. Like I'm pretty,
I'm an agnostic atheist. I don't believe in God. I think that the way that we should arrive at the
ideas and our ideas, I think the best way is through rational thought and critical thinking
and all that stuff. And I just, for me, I just haven't had enough evidence to relay my doubts
about the existence of a career. However, in saying that, like if we were having an ayahuasca
conversation or smoking a joint in the backyard or something around a fire, the concept, like
getting into that artful headspace where you can think of God as like change or you can think of
God as like, I like the, the, the Buddhist analogy of like blind men touching an elephant
and they're all describing this elephant differently. I kind of can resonate a little
bit with that. Like it's like, like there's something there. I don't think that's, it's
like morality. I don't think it actually exists, but people are describing this thing in a way
that seems to have certain characteristics about it. I've heard this, another analogy, it's like,
it's like Western religions like Christianity, like the Abrahamic religions, it's like,
they're, they're, they're climbing up to God, right? So it's like, it's like a, I'm, it's like,
I'm needing to turn to Jesus or pray five times a day. They're climbing up to God where
Eastern religions are like looking inward. So it's like looking inwards to yourself and it's
like a different, yeah. So yeah, it could be something to that, but I don't, I don't put any,
I don't personally put any weight to any of that. I, you know, I would, yeah. And I think the
external God is out there above us, beyond us, beyond our comprehension that I very much
do not like that conception. Okay. I find that very frustrating. And it has led to a lot of
de-intellectual realities and just sheep. Okay. Yeah. Like, like the deist perspective almost.
Do you not like the deist perspective of God? Like,
it isn't that I don't like it, but I find that more appropriate than saying that God is out there
and God's ways are beyond ours. Cause that makes me want to say, fuck you. Cause no.
I do like, you know, it's also the same thing like with, you know, that God is outside of us and
we need God. I'm like, no, guess what? Actually, God is already within you. If you're going to
talk about a God, like it's already there for you to tap into as compared to this, this, you are
scum and crap and you need God and Jesus. Like that just, I had a year of stepping in as an
associate pastor at a prosperity church. And so I did the call to confession and the assurance
of pardon for a year. And that was what did it for me. I was like, no, I do not want to keep
telling people they are sinful pieces of shit that need this thing. No, I'm done with that.
Like, no, cause it, cause it's language is powerful. Yeah. There's that folk gravel
poem from the 16th century, I think it was in the, at the start of, it's a Christian poem,
I think, but it's, it was at the start of God is not great by Christopher Hitchens. And he said,
it's, oh, we're some condition of humanity. Anyway, the main part is, oh, we're some condition
of, oh, we're some condition of, of humanity created a sick, commanded to be sound. And it's
like the idea that we're born sinners and, but we're commanded to be sound through Jesus. And
it's like, there's something brutal about that, you know, harsh. And it kind of paints this.
Really? Yeah. It paints God to be like a mafia boss or something. Totally. Yeah. Yeah. There are a
lot of things. No, no, sorry. I mean, there's just so many things about the depiction of God
that, that I, that I see a lot of atheists reacting to. And so that's part of why I have
this thing about, I think we need to redefine God or just be very clear that when you say that
you're an atheist, what you actually are saying to me is you don't believe in that thing that
people are talking about everything. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I think that's sound. I think that's
respectful, like respectable and reasonable. I like to, I actually like to defend God on this
channel. So like, I say, I say, like, you're telling me that the, that the, that God is
one of the people to enslave other people that he genocide of other nations. And I'm saying,
stop teasing God. It's not okay. Right. Like the creator of the universe wouldn't do that
if one didn't exist. This is funny. I throw it on his head. We have a super chat from Cheryl
again. Cheryl, you are such a love. Excellent. I'll have to check it out. I haven't listened
to it yet. Let me briefly just explain. Wild Olive is our tagline is game changing conversation
about literature culture in the Bible. And so I've teamed up with a literature professor. Her
name is Jean Betrall. She lives in Chicago, Illinois. And she or Everston, but she does,
she teaches the Bible's literature. And that's how she found out about my book, Permission Granted,
blah, blah, blah. So I'm coming as a biblical scholar. She's coming as a literature scholar.
We engage primarily poetry, because it's easier to do, but we engage poets and, and novelists,
authors who have engaged a concept from the Bible. And we use that as a way to help to
have a conversation about the fact that there's more than one way to read anything in the Bible.
But in particular, these really crucial moments that lots wife, like there's a really powerful
way of reading that story that's different from the one I was given, right? And so we have a
conversation about that. And we talk about, you know, lots of things related to the Bible, but
also beyond that into culture and the way biblical tropes or biblical ideas end up in
lots of places in our world beyond just religious context. And so I think there's
something interesting to, to observe there. And we try to keep it around 30 minutes,
a 30 minute podcast episode. So yeah, that's, that's much more reasonable than what I'm,
well, it's a different thing. Yeah, we want. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So listen, thank you, Cheryl.
Thank you for that plug. And the last question. Thank you. First of all, thank you so much for
coming on. And I'll just get a shout out. Go check out the podcast, the book, the book,
please go, if you read, if you listen to this audio book, it's good for Christians,
definitely. But it's also good for atheists or agnostics to, to read and get a different
perspective on some of these troublesome verses. It's go, go rate it, go give it a,
go get an honest rating. I'm sure you're gonna love it. And, and obviously check out Dr. Bird's
YouTube page here. So la, the last question. Oh, and just last thing to, I'm not very good
at these advertising stuff, I'm sorry. But straight after this, probably 15 minutes after
I end this, we're gonna be a live stream, an unlisted private live stream on
Deep Drinks Patreon page. So if you are a Patreon supporter, I've seen, we've got a
few more Patreon supporters since we started this live stream. Thank you so much.
Nice. Nice. You can come, come over and you can watch it. And for those who, I don't imagine
many people will come. But if you do, but you'll be able to watch it later, if you decide, if you
decide to join later and see how I create, come up with my questions and do, how I do the research
for the stuff and kind of buying the scenes, hang out for Deep Drinks. So the last question.
What advice would he give to a Christian who feels conflicted with what they read in the Bible?
Yeah. Yeah. I think I read your book. Well, I would say that actually, but, but I would say the
things that helped me survive seminary. And so that's these two things, these two convictions
got me through seminary. The first thing, I believed that God created us. And that means
God created us with the brains, the minds that we have. So I believe then that it is okay to use
your mind, in particular, in pursuits related to your faith, as compared to not, you know, like,
stop asking questions, right? No, actually, that is honoring to God. If you believe God created
you, it is honoring to God that you would use your mind even here. So that's one thing that,
that I think is important. The other is, if God and the Bible cannot handle your questions,
then I'm not sure they deserve your devotion.
Oh, wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. That's, that's a good quote. That's a great quote. I'm very excited to,
to learn more and read your newest book. How long away is it?
It's a few months away. Yeah. I just handed over the manuscript and it takes a few months to kind
of pull everything together. So unfortunately, but it'll be out in November. That's awesome.
We have a release date of mid November at the latest. So awesome. Well, I'm going to have to
get a signed copy of that as well, because I'm not going to work so far. Thank you, David.
I appreciate that. Thank you so much, Jennifer. And thank you for coming on. And guys, make sure
you check out the panel that's coming up. Jennifer is going to be amazing on that,
as well as everyone else. Thank you. Thanks guys. Thanks for having me. See ya. Bye.
