Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks podcast, the deepest podcasts on the
internet. It is with great pleasure that I introduce the guest for today's
interview. I've had many people ask for an ex Jehovah's Witness or even just
Jehovah's Witness to come on. I've asked many Jehovah's Witnesses that said no,
all of them, but it's my great pleasure to introduce Eric, who's the mastermind behind
the thought-provoking YouTube channel Skeptics and Scoundrels. Eric is an ex-member of the
Jehovah's Witnesses religion and now makes thoughtful and reflective YouTube content
based on atheism, skepticism, rationality and intellectual freedom. Eric went viral when he
created a video titled, Could God Not Kill Children? which asks the question in relation
to the infanticide within the Bible. We will be going over Eric's journey today as he spills
the beans on what it's really like to leave behind the Jehovah's Witnesses. I'd like to welcome my
new friend Eric from Skeptics and Scoundrels. Thank you so much for coming on man. Hey David,
thanks for having me. Man, I just, I have a confession to make before we even dive into this.
So what drink did you choose Eric? Okay, so apart from knowing you, I drink a lot of fosters and
I call fosters the American idea of what an Australian beer is because this is the only
Australian beer that I can find here where I live and I, I like the taste of it but I'm probably,
probably safe to say that it's probably not representative but probably the vast array of
beers that Australia does offer but it is the only one I have. So yeah, that's what we got. Fosters.
So it's, everyone thinks fosters is like the Australian beer. Like they think like it's,
it's like, you know, it's fosters. It's Australian beer, right? Yeah, it's what the commercial says.
Yeah, I've never met anyone in Australia who's ever had fosters. I've never seen anyone drink
fosters. The only time I've ever had fosters was over in London because it was on tap or it was over
in London. I was like, okay, interesting. But I went looking for fosters yesterday. I went to the
biggest retail store for alcohol in all like in Australia, Dan Murphy's. They don't stock it.
They don't sell it anymore. I went into the whole cold room. I talked to staff. They're like, no,
you can order it online. It comes in the post. Like some sort of foreign object. So I couldn't
actually get fosters. And I was like, well, what can I get that would be like, you know,
kind of plays on the thing. Well, you're drinking Australian beer. And I asked you what state you
live in. And I got the beer closest to the state that you live in, which I got. I'm going to guess.
I'm going to get, oh, Sierra Nevada. Okay, cool. Yeah. All right. I was about to guess. I was about
to guess the beer. What would you have said? What would you have said? I would have said
Rainier because Rainier is a pretty big Washington beer. Oh, no, I don't know. I am. I am though.
I am though. I was born in Nevada. So Sierra Nevada beer is pretty close. Yeah. There we go.
To be honest, I love this beer. So it worked out for me as well. Yeah. And I got four of the little
soldiers sitting right here. And hopefully, sadly, four of them will perish by the end of this
episode. If I'm a little bit slurry by the end, but we're going to have a great time today.
Yeah. Such a such an interesting journey that you've had. Many people have had. And I want to
learn more about it. Yeah. Yeah. So before we before we kind of get started, I do want to
quickly shout out your channel, which we talked about, like I talked a little bit about in the
introduction. But your channel is is just wild. And yesterday, you only got a few videos, but you've
got like 5,000 subs or nearly 5,000 subscribers. And you've got some really cool some videos on
here. And yesterday, we did a live stream doing a demon tier list. So we together we worked on what
kind of we rated the demons in the Bible. And, you know, and you'd be surprised to see what landed
in S tier. And we gave our reasoning. Why why we went through a lot of scriptures. Why why we put
certain things in S tier and AT. You'd be very interested. So go check out that on Eric's channel.
It was really it was real good fun. Yeah, I had a great time. I had a great time doing that with
you. That was that was a great two hours spent. So yeah, it was it was awesome. Like I knew you
what I've learned about Josephus Vinicius is you have a lot more thought out kind of theology
around demons like we as a kind of coastal Christians, we just kind of thought up principalities
and powers, right? Yeah. But but you guys like no, no, no, like you like you work. It seems like
you just worked out the whole cosmic realm of Christianity, like took it more seriously. Yeah.
Yeah, Jehovah's Witnesses, you look at their publications, they have they have spent a lot
of time like just granularly deciphering Bible prophecy, the Book of Revelation. They have
books committed, like they have their own publications committed to entire books of the
Bible. Like there was a two part Daniel publication talking about Daniel and the prophecies they're
in Nebuchadnezzar, the statues talking about Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. And you know,
that was like, they made those like 20, 30 years ago. Now, the Revelation book, which I shared
some images from that book from last night, just chapter by chapter verse by verse, just trying
to decipher the craziness that is Revelation. They have another book on Isaiah. And yeah,
they really try to break down the Bible and really like concretely explain what every
scripture in the Bible means. And it leads to some crazy conclusions, because they are
in so many areas just stretching and reaching for just some answer. And they usually end up
having to revise things constantly as years go by, because they'll say something like,
I believe it was the book of Daniel, the King of the North and the King of the South. And
the King of the North and the King of the South are I've always changed. Like the King of the South
is the, you know, American English Alliance. And then the King of the North is Russia. Now it's
North Korea. Now it's Russia again, as his as times changed. And they're always trying to
concretely explain everything. It's admirable they try to do that. But it's also kind of
comical in that they have to constantly revise what they believe because they're constantly
coming to bad conclusions off of whatever logic they're using. Yeah, it's pretty fascinating.
I do have a list of prophecies that I wanted to ask you about later on. But I do want to
quickly shout out that the person I think who's most excited about this stream is actually my
beautiful mother. So she almost drank the tea on the Jehovah's Witnesses stores that were coming
around a lot. And my father and mother were having Bible studies with them. And, you know,
and they kept, they kept like, they almost got there. They almost became, I think, like,
dip their toes in the Jehovah's Witnesses. And they didn't. But they, they talked about my dad,
my dad apparently kept asking questions. And they kept saying, we'll put that one on the shelf.
We'll just shelf that one for now. And they just kept like, they're going through their script,
going through their script. And my dad eventually went like, that's a pretty big shelf. Like,
that shelf's got a lot of stuff on it. Like, you're not answering the questions that we,
like the serious questions that we have. But then eventually they got into a big argument and they
asked them to leave and not come back. But yeah, it's my, my mom was actually asked a bunch of
questions for me to ask you. So, so she can watch this later on. So she's good to find out.
I'll do what I can do to answer those. Yeah. So how did you, let's start at the beginning.
How did you become a member of the Jehovah's Witnesses of religion? Did you grow up
with that religion or? I was, I happened to be born into a family that were Jehovah's Witnesses.
More specifically, my mother was a Jehovah's Witness. She, I think she was fresh into the
religion when I was born, maybe one or two years. I believe my dad technically at the time was not
a witness, but he was like, your parents were studying at the time when I was born.
So my mom, I believe kind of technically broke the rules and that she was dating a
worldly guy, got married to him, had a kid, and then he eventually came into becoming a witness
around the time I was born or shortly after. I do know that he quit smoking like cold turkey
once I was born and witnesses don't smoke. So I think he was kind of in that gray zone of,
of transition. Yeah, yeah. So, but anyway, for all intents and purposes, I was born into a Jehovah's
Witness family in Las Vegas, which was fascinating because Vegas is the city of sin, all kinds of
debauchery and craziness going on over there. Yeah, Nevada. And yeah, I lived in, in Nevada for,
you know, 22 years of my life. And then I eventually left because I really hated Las Vegas,
just as a city, not for the, you know, lack of culture, the heat, the pollution. I just,
I needed something different. So I ended up leaving. I lived in North Carolina for a few years and,
you know, some stuff happened there. And then right when I left North Carolina, that's about when
the religion started falling apart for me, which I'm pretty soon. But yeah, for the most part of
the first 20, 22 years of my life, I was in Vegas as a witness, a few years in North Carolina as a
witness. And then I eventually left. So how, how, like, growing up as a Jehovah's Witness, like,
what does that like from an early age? Like, I know I knew a few Jehovah's Witnesses at our school,
but they weren't like, they weren't like, no one threw rocks at them or anything. Like, they
weren't like, they weren't like, it wasn't like super weird. It was just like, oh, you're a Jehovah's
Witness. Like, oh, okay. Like, it was like, oh, Jehovah's Witness, that's interesting. But,
but it wasn't, but I know that they didn't like, they don't follow certain like, they don't celebrate
birthdays or Christmas and things like that. Can you touch a little bit about like what your child
was like, in school? Yeah. I never experienced any persecution for being a Jehovah's Witness in
school. Any grief that I got from fellow students was really generated by me from either trying to
preach to them or trying to change things in class. Oh, yeah. Yeah, we can go, we can go into
that. But all Witnesses are pressured to preach to everyone they know. But to, to, to answer your
first question, like the, the, the base question here. Yeah, it was kind of interesting because
no birthdays, no holidays, Christmas, Easter, none of that, nothing patriotic. So nothing,
like, even politics based class president or a class council, none of that. So, you know,
in grade school, whenever there was a holiday assembly and all the students were gathering
in the cafeteria to watch a Christmas play or something, I had special exemption to go to
the computer lab instead and play basically Oregon Trail, number munchers, like old school,
80s video games, or late early 90s, late 80s, early 90s video games. No, I take that back. It was
grade school. So yeah, late late late late 80s. I got to enjoy that. I have to, I have to
apologize everyone. We probably will start talking about video games somewhere in this,
when the drinks keep happening because half the stuff on my shelf, half the stuff on my shelf
back here are video games. I know it's blurry, but most of the games. Yeah, I used to be a video
game developer, indie game, indie game developer. So yeah, but anyway, keep going, tell us. So you
went to Oregon Trail. Yeah, so I was exempt from all religious, political activity in grade school,
and I would go to the computer lab, which personally I liked. I wasn't interested in going to a
holiday assembly about Santa Claus. I wanted to go play Oregon Trail. So yeah, that was that was
kind of a benefit. I really enjoyed doing that. And that's probably what put the love of computers
into me now, because I'm a, I'm a software developer. Also, I do a lot of computer stuff.
Yes, exactly. I would play, yes, right there. Apple, uh, Apple twos, Oregon Trail, five and a
quarter inch floppy disks. Yeah. Oh yeah, baby. I remember half the computers in the lab were,
were the monochrome screens with those green screens. And then there was a few that had the
16 colors that is from the screenshot you showed there. Um, but yeah, uh, and, uh, no birthdays.
So like if, if, if a kid had a birthday and there was a cup case in class, I couldn't have any, I
would always have to, you know, say no in front of everybody and everybody was like, why aren't you
not eating a cupcake? You know, because you know how kids are. If you're different, you're, you're,
you're, you're a subject of, of, of discussion at least and ridicule at the worst. Um, so, uh,
yeah, so I had to deal with that, you know, growing up. Um, I always had, it was always put
it in my head that yes, you are a Jehovah's Witness. You are a member of God's true religion.
You're going to survive Armageddon and help rebuild the earth into a paradise and everyone
else is going to just, if you don't, if they don't convert, they're going to die at Armageddon.
And that was the pressure put onto us as kids and even older, all witnesses have pressure
to preach to everyone they know. Um, you can't like, you can't go over to your friend's house
to play video games after school. Anything outside of school, you don't really communicate or talk
with your schoolmates. If you're at school, be civil, be friendly, but don't be like chummy or
become really close friends with them unless you are preaching to them. And then that's different.
So even from a young age, I was pressured to preach pressure to bring publications to school,
to read kids scriptures, um, take whatever opportunity possible to basically preach to them.
And that's what generated any persecution or any criticism or grief from other students is because
constantly having to do that. But yeah, so that's basically what it was like.
It was a good and bad mix because like I said, I got to do things like go to the computer lab and
hang out with a computer and play organ trail. And then other times I had people criticizing me for
what I believed or because I was preaching to them, uh, and such. So yeah, that's, that's basically,
oh, and I guess, uh, an added bonus was, uh, inadvertently, because I, you know,
Joe's witnesses do door to door preaching, uh, knocking on doors and such, uh, that happened
to me a few times that awkward time, awkward moment when you knock on a door and then a
schoolmate, you know, answers the door and you're there with your book bag and your tie and you're
like, I'm here to talk to you about Jesus. Um, not, not so good for your, your, your, your school
cred, but yeah. So that happened me at least, at least more than once. I remembered bumping
in people that I knew from school and awkward, super awkward. Do you remember like, were you
like from an early, early childhood, were you like convinced the whole time? Or do you have a
question when you're a child or like, did you ever wonder, like, is this really true? Or was
we just born in Brooklyn and Sinka because you were taught it?
Yeah. It's, it's difficult to, I can say that for the longest time, it was, it was a belief
based on trust. I trusted my parents that they were telling me the right things. I trusted the
elders and the congregation because just kids are wired to just simply trust the adults because
the adults are the ones that are protecting them. They're the ones that are teaching them.
There is this inherent trust in what they are saying. It never crossed my mind until my 20s
that, hey, maybe the adults don't quite know what they're talking about. So yeah, for the most part,
throughout my youth, I never critically examined anything. It was just, I'm told by the people
I trust that this is the case. And so this is the case. And that's kind of part of the Jehovah's
Witness religion in general. It's not, I, I, I believe Jehovah's Witnesses, the organization itself
is a cult. And I have, I have evidence of that. And I have a concrete definition of cult. And I'm
going to eventually do a, probably a five part video series on it, on why I think witnesses
are a cult and what criteria they fill. But as such, as a cult, they, they, they have tactics
that shut down critical thinking, shut down questioning. And part of that is basically just
telling you that if you internally question, God detects that and God doesn't like that. You don't
want to displease God by even questioning what the elders are saying or even questioning what
you're being taught in the publication. So they, they, they shut that down. They, they, they, they
don't, they don't allow you to even explore those things without, you know, a guilty conscience or,
or reproval from somebody in the congregation. If, you know, if you are actively questioning out loud
to other people in the congregation, you'll get pulled into a back room with an elder or two,
and you'll get a stern talking to, you keep on pushing it, there will be consequences.
So it's a, it's an environment that shuts down critical thinking and on top of that,
being born into it, being, I'm generally a trustful person. I trust people that I love and I trust
that, you know, it's still something even as a 40 year old, 41 year old. Now I still have a hard
time differentiating between adults, you know, adults, people that I look up to and, and people
that people that I look up to may or may not be right about something. And I still can fall
into the pattern of I look up to this person, I trust this person, and I will just kind of
uncritically accept what this person says. I have to constantly catch myself and say, hold on,
that's the way I was raised and the way I was taught. I need to question this.
Yeah. Yeah. And it's just breaking out of that, that kind of lifelong pattern is,
has always been a challenge for me just because that's how my brain is wired. It was from birth.
I've been in nature and nurture. I'm just a trusting person. And also I was
raised in an environment where trust was rewarded and questioning was, was, was not.
Do you find yourself to be quite an honest person? Like, do you find it, like,
do you not like to lie?
Yeah. That's a good question because that's something I had to reexamine when I left the
witnesses. I did my best not to lie when I left the witnesses and I still do my best not to lie
now. But I would be lying if I said that there weren't occasions where I didn't lie, you know,
for self gain or, or for getting out of trouble or anything like that. It, it's, it's, I can say
that the difference between then and now is that if I lie now, it's usually out of principle.
Like for instance, you know, like let's say we lived in 1940s Germany and the Nazis are at the
door and they're like, Hey, is Anne Frank in your roof or in your, in your baseboards? Obviously,
no, I've never heard of her. Yeah. Like that's, that's, that's an appropriate lie.
Back when I was a witness, I would have been compelled to tell the truth because
wine's bad. Just black, black and white, wine is bad. So yeah, it's complicated now. And, and
it's always been complicated. It's just back when I was a witness, I had this illusion,
this, this false perception that it was simple when it never was simple. Lying,
lying is situational. Lying is, is, is not a black and white thing.
And, but now I do my best to be an honest person. I'm honest on my taxes. I'm honest,
you know, to my wife. I, I do my best around there, but every once in a while, there might
come an occasion where I was like, is a lie better in this situation as this tasteful as that might
be, you got to, you know, it's situational and contextual. But yeah, that's, that's kind of
how it is now. I, I very much have revised and probably refined my opinion about such a thing
after I left the witnesses. Whereas I was very black and white simplistic before.
Yeah, I ask is like, I find myself to be quite honest. In fact, a therapist has told me that,
that like has commanded me to lie, to go live because I was like pathologically afraid of lying.
But, but, but I'm the same. I trust, I trust a lot of people all the time. Like, even if I hear
like, someone is like, representable is like Jordan Peterson say something. I was like, okay,
and I have to remind myself, no, no, no, no, no, no, like, remember he, like, you remember the
stuff, the other stuff he said, like, I kind of take what people say is like, true the truth.
I'm very naive like that. And I'm trying to, to kind of work at that. I just wanted to shout
out to we have so many awesome people in the chat. I'm carrying in pragmatic crystal.
Dave is nice to see you here, CDN. Hi, hey, doing.
It's awesome. So KCA, Randy, awesome. Be great to see River City Films, a member of the channel.
Thank you so much, Nitty. Hey, guys, go on. It seems to be you guys here today. Dr. Cheryl,
oh, love Dr. Cheryl. But you thank you everyone for coming out. This is, this is, it's really
nice to see you, like, I actually start to like, you see, like, people come in the chat and you're
like, I know you, like, you just have to like, feel like it's a bit of a community, you know.
But so I did like what you said there about, because I was going to ask, do you think like,
our cult, what kind of, what kind of criteria do you kind of use for that? Like, listen,
we don't have to go right into it. But when you say cult, because I know that a lot of people
say, like, Christianity is a cult. And you're like, like, it depends what you mean. Like,
are you talking about like an actual definition? Or are you talking like, or yeah.
Yeah, I'm actually, I'm looking back here, because I'm looking for my combating cult
mind control book. I think my dad has it currently. Steven Hassan, Steven Hassan wrote a book called
combating cult mind control, in which he outlined a model that can be used to define a cult. And
that's the bite model or B I T E bite stands for behavior, information, thought, emotion, control
bite. So if you have an organization, whether it be commercial, or political, or religious, and you
can find markers that they are attempted to control these four aspects of your life,
behavior, information, thought, and emotions, then you likely are dealing with a high control group
or a cult. And so the the bite model, I think is an excellent nice, it's, it's, it's very, it's,
it's very refined. There's granular degrees in which you can measure each of the letters
with the organization. And an organization doesn't necessarily have to fulfill
to the limit, all of them, it can be a, it can be a degree, you know, from very minimal control
to a lot of control. And I, that's, that's, that's, after I read that book, I was like, yeah, this
is the model that I like, because it just, it makes sense. Any, any organization trying to control
your behavior, the information you take in, what you're thinking, or what you're feeling with your
emotions, that that's, that's just a cult. And yeah, the Jehovah's Witnesses, I believe, fit the
bite model extremely well. This is probably, like I said, I'm going to do probably a five-part
video series on it in the future, probably one for an introduction and then one for each letter.
And yeah, they fit it really well. They, they, they attempt to control your behavior.
Do this, say this, don't do that, don't say that, don't hang out with these people,
don't watch those movies. They, they control that kind of stuff in your life. Information,
they tell you, only go to websites we approve, only watch videos we approve of. If something is
negative about us or the organization in general, don't watch it, shut it off. With the thoughts,
it's don't question. Don't think about this part, like you mentioned, when your parents were studying
how they were basically saying, yeah, we'll just, we'll shell that for later. That's basically saying,
don't think about that right now. Put that off until some other time. And then with emotions,
witnesses are constantly being told, we are the happiest people on the planet. Everyone outside
is not as happy as we are. Don't you feel happy friends and like at the meetings and conventions,
that's the prompt to clap and say, yes, we're happy. Yes, we're absolutely happy. And yeah,
I can, I can go into it for hours. But yeah, the, the bite model is I think is, is, is a very good
way to define cults and a good way to describe an organization that is definitely one of them.
And River City Film right there, Seventh Day Adventists, I believe that witnesses and the
Seventh Day Adventists are basically cousins. They, I think they both come up from the same branch
of Christianity. So I'm not surprised, I'm not surprised with similarities because they're
related, they're very closely related in the, in the, in the tree of the Christian religion.
It's, they're, they're very neighboring branches.
There, there's something that, that you hit on there really well, which is like the
viewing, it's very much like an us versus their mentality. And when I was leaving the Pentecostal
church or not questioning my faith, but just trying to, I wouldn't even say questioning my
faith, I was trying to examine the evidence and follow where it leads. Whenever I would find
something that kind of contradicted my belief system, it was evidence of my belief system
because we do not war against flesh and blood. We war against principalities and powers of this
spirit realm, right? It was like everything was funneled through that. So when I would watch
Richard Dawkins, you know, point out something to someone, that's the devil using him. If I would,
if I would learn about evolution, I, you know, and it made sense to me that was the devil playing
tricks on me. Like it was everything. And I had to kind of remove that presupposition to even be
able to move forward. But I think for the Jehovah's Witnesses, it's even worse because you're, you're,
is it, is it corrected to assume that you're taught that the world is like out to deceive you?
Like they're, they're like, it's like, it's not, it's, it seems like a much more extreme version
of what, what I kind of went through. And, and that's, that's what I think it's very dangerous.
Like it's extremely dangerous because you can't question it. Yeah. The, there's, there's, there's
a, a huge us versus them mentality within the witnesses. We, the witnesses are the one and only
true organization that belongs to God, the only true form of Christianity. Everyone else, whether it
be religions, not Christian or even other Christian denominations, those are all false
religion. That's all, that's all the devil's tools to trip up true worshipers of Jehovah and,
and keep them from serving God. So the Catholic church, yeah, that's Satan's tool. The Pentecostal
church, that's Satan's tool. The, even the seven day Adventist, the closest relatives to the witnesses,
that's Satan's tool. Only the witnesses have that, that, that true religion. And, and yeah,
us versus them, it shuts down critical or even civil discussion when it comes to religion
between these denominations, because the witnesses, why they're, the witnesses are at your door. It's
basically, you listen to us preach or we're leaving. You, you don't get to preach back at them. You
don't get to offer counterpoints or anything like that. Because if they detect that, hey, this person
is not really receptive to what we're saying, they'll just go on and say, okay, we're just gonna
leave and find somebody else. And yeah, but no, you're, you're pretty much running the money there
in that. It's, it shuts down discussion. Oh, well, one other thing I was going to mention is
the, the persecution complex among the witnesses. Yeah. The, the witnesses, they, they think that
Satan controls the world. Satan is out to get them. So anything that happens, anything that
happens to the witnesses, whether it be good or bad, can be turned into the narrative and turned
into this is evidence that we have God's blessing or we're doing the right thing. If good things
happen to the witnesses, it's God is blessing us. If bad things happen to the witnesses, it's Satan
is persecuting us. Even internally within the witnesses, like let's say you have just a, let's
say you just have a witness, like we'll call him Tom. If Tom is a faithful witness and is in the
religion and good things happen, it's Jehovah's blessing you. If Tom remains within the witnesses
and bad things happen, it's Satan's testing you trying to pull you out. If Tom leaves the witnesses
and good things happen, then it's Satan is rewarding you to keep you out. And then if Tom
leaves the religion and bad things happen, it's Jehovah's withdrawn his blessing from you and
Satan's attacking you. No matter what happens, it's turned into supporting the narrative. It's,
it's, it's textbook, textbook, textbook, unfalsifiability. No matter what happens, it can only
be evidence for their claims. It can never be evidence against. Yeah. It's amazing to, I remember
when the same sex marriage purpose I was coming through Australia, the amount of, you know, I
was questioning my faith at that time, more on the, on the more of move past a little bit at that
time. But I remember like just being amazed at how much my fellow Christian brothers and sisters,
people I loved, thought that the rights for other people to get married was somehow persecution
on them. I couldn't believe, I couldn't understand how it was like,
I am being persecuted. The world is persecuting us because those people are doing something.
I couldn't, I couldn't understand. I would say to these like, and the public side was like, you
know, should, should members of the LGBT community be able to get married? And it's like, wait, it's,
I remember asking these people like, do you think Hindus should be able to get married or is it only
a Christian thing? Can they, can Satanist, can atheists? Like, is it, it seems strange to me
that you're okay with other religion, religious groups who don't believe it's of your God,
getting married, but you don't want like, anyway, I just couldn't believe that. I can see, I can see
almost why they would, I can see an argument for why they wouldn't be okay with it because it goes
against their religious doctrine. But to say it's persecution on them is just wild. Like, I don't
understand that. It's like, it's like, they've got a big stick and then whacking everyone with it
for like years. And then society says, Hey, maybe you shouldn't have that big stick. And they're
like, you're persecuting us. It's like persecution. Yeah, it's the other way round. Yeah, I found that
fascinating too, because for the most part, witnesses are apolitical. They don't get involved
in politics and they don't get involved in like social issues like that. As far as I can tell,
as long as it's not a direct attack on the witnesses themselves, they for the most part
don't care. They don't care about the fight over LGBTQ rights. They don't care about the
fight over marriage equality and such. They simply don't care because those are worldly issues.
And that's something that I had to like, kind of wrap my brain around is that there are Christians
who will look at two gay people getting married and go, that's an offense to my rights. Like,
that's somehow persecution upon me because they aren't following my rules. And yeah,
that's always been bizarre to me. And it's funny you mentioned the guy with the stick
beating people because I have a, when I left the witnesses, when I left the witnesses, I was
collecting all kinds of like atheist, anti-religious memes and I have them all in a folder and I
occasionally share them. We're talking about memes from like 14 years ago. One of them is
a guy with the big cross beating another guy over the head with it and going,
sinner, blasphemer, monster. And then finally, the other guy takes the cross that he's getting
beaten with and is about to crack it over his leg. And the guy that was doing the beatings going,
whoa, whoa, religious persecution here. Like it is that mentality is that, hey,
if you don't follow my rules, you are offending me and my religion.
James Apperson, yeah? You are a man of fine taste, James, if I do say so myself.
It goes further though with the Jehovah's Witnesses and this is something that I
am so thankful that it's not like that with our family. We might even have some of my
Christian friends and family watching right now because I share it to my Facebook.
We have Easter coming up after this. It's a belated Easter event. They're coming around. But
we know that we have different belief systems and we're still okay. And I'm so thankful that
that's the case, that they don't hate us, they haven't ostracized us. But within the Jehovah's
Witness community, you have this thing called defellowshipping. Can you please explain to
everyone what that is? And did you go through that yourself?
No, I navigated those waters. I managed to navigate those waters without talking to
so disfellowshipping. There's levels of discipline within the Jehovah's Witness faith.
If you are a good witness and you follow the rules and you don't make any trouble or cause any
problems, keep your pants on if you're not married and all that kind of stuff, you're fine.
But if you start stepping out of line, you start questioning, start, let's say, drinking too much
or start dating somebody outside of the religion, various degrees of offense is going up. The elders
will, if they catch wind of it, they'll take note and they will start to counsel you. And depending
on how you respond to that counsel or not, will determine whether you are more severely disciplined
or not. So the first level of discipline is to be privately approved by the elders. The elders
will have meetings with you and if you are kind of out of line, they'll give you some reproof,
some scriptural counsel, but it's a private thing. It's not announced in the congregation or
anything like that. The next level beyond that, if their offense is worse or your response to
their counsel is not as desirable as they would like to see, you will be publicly reproved,
in which case there will be an announcement in the congregation that such and such has been
reproved. They won't say why, they'll simply say you've been reproved. And at that point,
you're kind of like marked, like all the other witnesses in the congregation know, hey,
Eric over there did something wrong. So at that point, yeah, at that point, it's kind of a signal
to the congregation, hey, Eric might be bad associations. I've never been marked, by the way,
as far as I know. And if I was to be marked, they would have told me the night and day or the night
in the meeting would have been announced. But anyway, it's basically a signal to the congregation,
hey, Eric might be becoming bad associations, bad association, and he might be not so great to
work to be around because he might start affecting you negatively spiritually. The next level,
to kick it up a notch, if you are really bad, unrepentful or the sin is grave enough, you will
be disfellowshipped. Disfellowshipped is essentially, the way they announce it is that, the way they
announce it is, if I'm correct about this, they will announce James Apperson right there,
1 Corinthians 1533. That's the first scripture I've ever was taught actually, is that scripture
there. That's the scripture they use to basically weed out any dissenters in congregation because
a bad apple will spoil a bunch is essentially what it's saying there. But anyway, if you're
disfellowshipped, like let's say Eric was to be disfellowshipped, it would be announced at the
meeting. Eric is no longer one of Jehovah's Witnesses, that's the announcement it is now.
At that point, that is a signal to the congregation to no longer speak to me under threat of themselves
getting disfellowshipped. So if somebody says, well screw that, I'm still going to hang out with
Eric and have a beer, and somebody else finds out about that, then that disfellowshipping can
spread to that person. And it's a way of separating out any dissenters and cutting off communication
between that person and everybody else. Friends will no longer talk to you if you are
working for a witness for a job, you'll likely get fired, because that's not a necessary
communication between two people. Your family won't, your family won't talk to you like they
used to talk to you. They'll still talk to you about family business or anything that's like
necessary, like oh hey, grandma's in the hospital, we need to do this and this and this to take care
of her. They'll still do that kind of, they'll still have those conversations with you, but
they won't talk to you about hey, did you go watch the new Marvel movie or did you go watch
Star Wars or anything like that. So family relationships change at that point. And then
the next level beyond that, that is being marked as an apostate. That is, that is, oh and let me
rewind back to disfellowshipping. You can still attend meetings as a disfellowship person. Nobody
talks to you. The elders occasionally, like you will literally go to the Kingdom Hall, people
will pretend like you're not there, you'll sit and listen to the meeting and you will leave.
And if you do this for like 12 to 16 months, then the elders will start to talk to you and start
working with you to get you reinstated. 12 to 16 months. That's the average, that's the average.
I've seen it happen faster, I've seen it happen slower, but that's the average, about 12 to 16
months. You have to deal with being ostracized and marked and nobody talking to you for about 12
to 16 months. And basically people treat you like you're dead. Like if somebody bumps into you on
the street and you're disfellowshipped, they will walk right by you, like you are not there. You
are to be treated like you're basically dead. Even like family, I've heard stories of like
there'll be a group of people talking and then someone who's disfellowshipped, even like a family
member will come up and join the group and the Jefferson's will just turn and give the group
walk away. That's crazy to me. That's some level of like, if there's ever an argument that churches
should be taxed and then they're not public service. It's emotional manipulation and it's
an emotional abuse. It is. We are going to love you as long as you comply. You stop complying,
we will withdraw our love. And this is love between family members. Imagine a father doing this to his
son or a son doing this to his father or a husband doing this with his wife. It's twisted,
emotionally abusive and it's damaging. Can that actually happen with husband and wife as well?
That's a little more difficult because like I said, the relationship will change.
If a husband's disfellowshipped and the wife is trying to be a good witness,
the wife's behavior around her husband will change. She will not have certain conversations that
they normally would. Probably the best way to put it is it will become much more business-like,
much more business-oriented. Imagine you're working a job and you're dealing with a vendor
or business partner. For the most part, you're not going to like chum around and be very close.
You're going to just talk business and then once you're done talking business, you part and you're
done. That's kind of what it reduces a husband relationship down to or any familiar relationship
pretty much. It's reduced down to that, that only what is necessary, only what needs to be handled
and then other than that, you don't want to touch it. Can you be intimate? Obviously,
the bees haven't kicked in enough that I'm used to be intimate, but is it time for our Wednesday
night sexual intercourse and then you have sex, don't look each other in the eye and then wait?
That's a great question. That's a great question. The Jehovah's Witnesses' elders have a private
Jehovah's Witness elders handbook. It's probably pretty thick. It's about 150 pages long. It's
a large book too. Yeah. It's only for elders. It's not to fall into the hands. Of course,
it has. I have a PDF of I think the most recent one. I can send it over. I'm not sure if it's
the most up to date one, but they have outlines for all situations like this in there. I've actually
never read the bit on what marriage, sexual relationships within a marriage would be like
under these conditions. It's so weird. You've got a kind of appreciation because they're trying to,
it's disgusting, but you've got to appreciate it because they're trying to make the Bible work.
They're trying to go, okay, this versus this, let's take it as literal for us right now,
2,000 years later, and let's try and logic our way around this. When you were describing it all,
it just reminded me of this. I'm not sure if you're seeing Game of Thrones, but Shane, Shane, Shane.
Such a great, oh my God, that scene was great. That scene was amazing. I've got to re-watch this
series. It's powerful too. This letter I saw, this isn't from a Jehovah's Witness, I don't think,
it's from the Church of Christ, but it says, for the last several weeks, we have noticed,
so this is a letter that someone has been sent to them. Last several weeks, we have noted that
you have stopped attending the assembly of the Church. After attempts to discuss the situation
with you, we fear that you are no longer convinced in the need to assemble with the Church for which
Christ died. We are very saddened by your decision. This failure to assemble is not only a problem
that you must address. We have been informed and understand that you have a living's arrangement
that is not biblical and must be terminated immediately. This action alone reflects that you
have not avoided all appearances of evil, as Scripture directs us in 2 Thessalonians 522.
Please understand our obligation as shepherds. First, we must watch for your soul, Hebrews
13 and 17. And second, protect the congregation by withdrawing from every brother and sister
that walks assortedly, 2 Thessalonians 3 and 6. If these issues are not corrected and public
repentance made by Sunday, February 21, 2021, we will withdraw fellowship, the elders.
So the terminology is a little different, but that is very close to what you deal with with
the witnesses. They won't just send you a letter out of nowhere. The elders will first try
to call you or even knock on your door and attempt to talk to you. And whenever that happens,
you'll notice there are two elders there because the witnesses have something called the two witness
rule where basically any confession or any offense must have two witnesses in order for it to be like
an elder matter that they can address. If there's only one witness, then elders basically say,
well, we don't have enough evidence to do anything about this, which as a tendon is what has made
the witnesses into a pedophile child abusers paradise is because when do you have two witnesses
to a case of child abuse? But anyway, that's a whole other matter, but that's kind of a
general overarching rule they have. So whenever elders approach you, there'll be two of them
because if you make a confession or say something out of line, they need to have both people there
in order to witness that confession and use it against you. But yeah, it's basically the same
thing. Stop going to meetings for a while. You're caught out on a date with a girl who's not a
witness or caught out on a date with a girl who is a witness to have a chaperone. Like stuff like
that, they will if somebody notices it and reports you back to the elders, they'll they'll send out
their investigators to start probing. So bizarre. Yeah, I mean, it's very it's it's it feels very
culty. Like it feels very, very culty. Yeah. And I can actually I can actually get into how like I
mentioned earlier that I actually navigated the waters and didn't get disfellowship on leaving.
But really quick, so the next after disfellowship and so disfellowship is as bad as you can get
with the hope of return. After that, you are apostates, like you spoken out against the
organization, you have worked against God's Holy Spirit, you've worked against the organization.
Definitely stuff like I'm doing where I have a YouTube channel, I'm talking shit about the
witnesses. That that is that is the point of no return, you can never return. If I were to go
back to yeah, if I were to ever ever go back to trying to be a witness, if I let's say I deleted
my channel, deleted all my videos, and I said I was wrong and I went and I go back, I would not
be allowed back because I spoke out against the Holy Spirit, I spoke out against the witnesses,
I actively participated against them, God's one and true earthly organization,
and I am I am branded for life. Yeah. Did you speak out against the Holy Spirit or just speak
out against the church? Like I've never seen you really like start to them. It's one of the same
to them. So they don't explicitly say it, but the Jehovah's Witness leadership, the organization
itself, as well as the leadership, that's basically God's mouthpiece on earth. If you look at their
literature, it's almost interchangeable, God with the organization, you can you can go to
paragraphs and just change them out, and it doesn't change anything with the paragraph. They
believe they're God's representatives, and if you speak out against them, you speak out against
God, and you're done. So I never knew there was that level of like, you become unforgivable.
It's apostasy, it's the it is no return, you're done. Yeah. So those are the those are the levels
of discipline within the organization. Yeah, I totally were surprised there.
Carrie Ann Price, like, congratulations, Eric. You won a prize there. Yes. Yes.
I like the stream. I love the Travis Witnesses. It was awesome. Yeah. It's like, yeah.
Yeah. But anyway, when I left 14 years ago, I stopped going to meetings. I stopped. I stopped
going to meetings for several months. And I was living in Montana at this time. I had kind of
gotten away. I basically moved to Montana to get away from pretty much everything. I was kind of,
I had all this over me my entire life, and stuff happened in my life that I wanted to get away
from. So I said, you know what, I'm gonna move someplace that I can kind of start over, make
new friends, just just start a fresh start. And when I did that, when I did that, that's when
I dropped out of the religion, because that social reinforcement was gone. So when I moved to Montana,
I went to a few meetings there just enough for the local elders to know who I am and know where
I live. And then I stopped going for a few months. I started dating a girl in the area. And one day
when I was at work, that girl was at my house hanging out. And two elders showed up at my house
to see if I was home and they wanted to talk to me. Well, I wasn't there to answer. My girlfriend at
the time was. And so the elders were like, who's this girl at Eric's house all alone? So anyway,
they, they ended up calling me and getting ahold of me. And they were basically, they ended up
meeting with me. At this point, I was, I was very much an agnostic. And I was like, I'm done with,
I don't believe this anymore. But I knew if I wasn't careful, they would disfellowship me and that
would put a strain on my relationship with my family. So I, one of the few wise things I did
in my life, I basically didn't answer their questions. I basically didn't give them concrete
answers on anything. They met with me. They wanted to question me. They were asking me who she was
and yada, yada, yada. I kept everything vague. I didn't give them any answers until finally at
the end of the conversation, they were getting really fed up with my evasions. And they literally
asked me, I'm quoting this verbatim. Did you have sexual relations with that girl that was in your
house? Like that's, they directly asked me that. And for the record, I did not. I was, I was brand
new to dating. I was still feeling things out. And I, we actually, that girl and I, we actually never
slept with each other. We broke up and after a little bit after that. But I told those guys,
I said, I said, the day I enter back into a kingdom hall, your church, I will answer that
question. But until then, I'm not going to answer that question because I knew they would likely
come to their own conclusions on that, but it's nothing concrete they can use. They can't take
that back to their elder body and say, Oh, Eric slept with this girl because I didn't actually
answer it in the affirmative. I just simply refused to answer. I basically pled the fifth.
So I didn't care what they thought about it. And anyway, they, they both said, okay, well,
if you ever come back to the kingdom hall, we will reexamine this. And I said, okay. And then
they left and I never heard from them again. Had they, had they decided to proceed with like a
judicial committee for disfellowshipping, they would have told me about it. They would have
invited me to go attend the judicial committee. Had I was I to be disfellowshipped, they would have
given me the night and the day or the meeting they would have announced it during that that never
happened. And I was there for like another year after that, like I wasn't going anywhere. I didn't
just like up and leave and never heard about it again. I was there for a whole year. Nothing came
about. Yeah. So that, that's kind of how I evaded it. I, they were questioning me. I knew if I
answered incorrectly, they would try to pin me with something disfellowshipped me, which would put
my relationship with my family at risk. So I just, I just evaded, got through it, never made a fuss
about it after that. And yeah, so I, as far as I know, I'm not disfellowshipped according to their
records. I have a file somewhere. According to their records, I'm still, I'm still a witness in
supposedly good standing, just inactive. You just, you step, step, went to apostasy. There's a,
we had River City films give a super, super sticker, the first super sticker. You also remember
River City films. And you have a super sticker, which was just the poo emoji. Thank you. I hope
that was in reference to hopefully as a reference to the Joe's witnesses, but hey, if it's, if it's
poo, drip towards me, I'm not going to argue. I'm, I'm kind of a shitty person sometimes. So
I'm, I'm pretty sure. So, um, how did you start doubting? So like you, you move away and you're
not, because I think COVID did, did wonders for people doubting, to be honest, because they
were not having that connection. But how did you, this was 14 years ago. How did you start doubting
your, your faith? Yeah. Like I said, it was, it was a first step was getting away from everybody,
because the witnesses are so tight in it. And because you don't have worldly friends, because
you don't hang out with family members with who are not witnesses, you're for the most parts
surrounded by just witnesses, just people who also believe as you do. And that, and also that
overall arcing threat of you step out of line, you're going to disfellowship and lose everything
you know. So that constant social reinforcement, that constant environment of everybody believes
the same thing. Trust your elders, trust your parents. It's like a pressure cooker almost. And
you're, you can't, you have no room to maneuver and think inside of that, that environment.
You basically can't see the forest for the trees. As the saying goes, once I left that,
and I was in Montana and away from all that, it, it just, it just kind of happened on its own.
It started, it started with the thought of, wow, my life didn't go exactly the way I
planned it to. I thought I was doing all the right things. I was, I was a ministerial servant,
which is a level of service in the congregation. I was a regular pioneer. I was devoting 50,
60 hours a month to the field ministry, the preaching work. I was doing all these things
that was supposed to be bringing me Jehovah's blessings, but they didn't. And so with those
questions and getting away from that constant social reinforcement, my, and on top of that,
the witnesses are told, if you leave, your life's going to fall apart. The world's going to eat you
up and spit you out. The people out in the world are terrible. They're going to use you and lie to
you and abuse you. And they're just terrible people. We are, we are the oasis of this bastion
of peace within this chaotic world. And once I left and my life didn't fall apart, in fact,
when I left my life drastically improved because I started making different, my decisions were
based off of reason and logic and foresight instead of what do I think God wants to do.
Leaving, leaving that atmosphere, my life improving and all these things, that started
making me question. I started thinking to myself, well, maybe God isn't exactly who I think he is.
Maybe he isn't who I told he was. And then I went to, well, maybe why is there even a God?
Like, what evidence do I have that a God is even there? So I eventually
considered myself an agnostic. I was basically thinking to myself, yeah, I don't know if a
God is there. So I started calling myself an agnostic for a while. And then shortly after that,
I discovered the atheist experience on YouTube. And I started listening to Matt Dillahunty,
Tracy Harris, Jeff D.
Big mistake. That's your first mistake.
Yeah, huge mistake. And I was sitting there thinking, I was sitting there thinking to myself,
like, these guys, they're making sense. And they're trying to sell me anything. Like,
they're not telling me to worship this God or worship that God. They're just simply saying,
we don't have a good reason to believe that a God exists. And they were laying out reasons why.
And when I would, I would notice when Christians would call in and with their
claims of God or their evidence of God, I realized these are all the things that I used to think.
And then I was watching Matt and crew just shoot left and right, shoot these ideas down,
or shoot these reasons down. And I started realizing that I never had a good reason to
begin with in my belief. And so once I realized that I didn't have a good reason
at all, that's when I said to myself, you know what, I'm an atheist, I,
I don't believe a God exists. I'm not a strong atheist, like, you know, some are, I don't,
I don't actively say there are definitely no gods. If you give me, if you give me a well-defined
God, I'll probably make a determination whether that God definitely doesn't exist or not. Like,
if a definition of a God can contain, contains a contradiction, then obviously
that God doesn't exist. It contains a contradiction. But for most ill-defined vague gods, I'm just
neutral in belief. Like, if you want me to believe this God exists, you got to show me some evidence.
But until then, I'm just, I don't even care. Same way I treat unicorns and vampires and leprechauns.
I just, there might be a leprechaun out there. Who knows? But I'm not going to sit there and
believe that, that, that there is one. Yeah, that's, that's, that's how it went.
Yeah. I'm the same. Although, like, if, if someone was to, like, say, you know, try to convince me
of, like, the Christian God or something, and like, what would convince me of the Christian God is real?
If you take an, an errant, an errant seed in scripture, like, scripture is God breathed,
I'd have to say the same thing that would convince me that the Christian God is real is the same
thing that I would need to believe in a married bachelor. So it's like, it has internal contradictions,
you need to be able to resolve them. And sometimes there's no way to do that if you
consider it to be an errant, unless you just, unless you're like a goldfish and you read one thing
and you go, okay, you know, Joseph's father is this person. And then you go to Luke and you're
like, Joseph's father is this person, you forgot the first, like, unless you really like that. But
yeah. Yeah, I'm, I'm, I'm very much in alignment with you there. The only, the Christian God that
is omnipotent, omnibenevolent and omniscient, mixed in with the world that we know exists,
like all those together, that's enough of a contradiction for me to say that that God definitely
does not exist. If a Christian comes to me and says, well, we're in a downgrade, one of these
omnitrays to maybe something more like maximally great, like maximal love or maximal knowledge,
or start watering down that God, then yeah, you're gonna start getting down to that gray area of,
okay, I, I can't make a real determination one way or the other. So I'm just believing neutral on
it. But if you're going to present to me a, an omni, a tri-omni God, and this tri-omni God created
this world, then no, I'm sorry, that you've, you've established a contradiction in my mind,
and I'm not going to believe that. I will actively believe that God doesn't exist because
yeah, like you mentioned, Mary bachelor is like you, you're, you're, you're basically with definitions
are eliminating the possibility of this thing existing. It's something pretty interesting.
And I don't know how true this is, but when I interviewed a Hare Krishna back on like the
fourth episode or something of deep drinks, we're up to like 60 something now. But when, when I
interviewed them, they pointed out that it's really interesting because in Eastern religions,
they don't have the problem of evil because it's, it's not a problem based on their
worldview. And I think that's the biggest problem for, like, it's a huge problem for
a monotheistic or even a polytheistic, but like a religion that says that God is all powerful
and he's all loving, like that it's very hard to, to make those two things work. The only way that
I've heard, like I've heard Michael Jones inspiring philosophy say that maybe, maybe
all the things that I'm calling bad are necessarily bad there to build virtue. So
children dying of cancer, sex trafficking, not bad to build virtue. Like it's, it's all, all,
actually those things are more, the second thing was more like men sin, but like,
you know, cancer in children, earthquakes that kill millions of people, you know, they're, they're
just God's more, God doesn't really care, more cares about virtue, ethics. And also you have to
take in the whole worldview that a lot of those people died and went to heaven. So
I've given some, I've given some thought about this because yeah, I've heard Michael Jones say this.
I've heard camera batuzzi say something along the lines of like, well, God allowed slavery
so that we could have like a virtuous figure, figure like Martin Luther King enter the scene.
Like he said that I don't want to misrepresent him because my memory is not the greatest,
but he was, he was having to sit down with Alex O'Connor, the cosmic skeptic, and he basically
said something like that. And I remember his apologist partner there got a look on his face
when Cameron said that, like, oh, there's like maybe a little bit of anyway, but it really
boils down to, you can really boil it down to something simple. God values courage.
Therefore, he made a world where fear is a thing so courage can become a thing because
without fear, there's no courage. God allowed this evil to allow some greater good to be possible.
And that raises the question, what kind of math, what kind of virtue mathematics is God employing
in the case of like Martin Luther King? In the case of Martin Luther King,
how many, how many black slaves have existed in the past 500 years? Like let's just,
let's just pick a number. Let's say there was a million black slaves in the past five million,
five million, there's a million black slaves in the past 500 years.
God allowed this to occur for a certain set of virtuous things to occur. Let's just simply say
just the existence of Martin Luther King and the civil rights movement. How many virtue units,
positive virtue units did Martin Luther King and the civil rights movement generate and how many
negative virtue units did a million black slaves generate and how is that scale in favor of the
positive virtue units? Like does God sit down and actually do the mathematics on this? Would two
million black slaves be too much for a Martin Luther King and a civil rights movement? Does
that tip the scales in the opposite direction? Like how does this work? Like what kind of a
God would think about these things and try to calculate, I'm going to allow this amount of
evil so that this amount of good can exist. It doesn't make sense. It's like would you kill one
person to stop two people being murdered? Would you rape one person to stop two people being
murdered? Like at what level is it like, ooh, I don't like that. Like that seems very... Yeah,
it's kind of like the trolley problem if you think about it. Yeah, like what direction do you
send the trolley and what's the better or worse way of doing things? And yeah, it's just bizarre.
And I love the knots that apologists twist themselves into trying to explain why God allowed
slavery to allow Martin Luther King to exist or to allow the civil rights movement. It's bizarre.
Here's the thing too. Pine Creek Doug, he has a really good observation in that
what's better? Like God is ultimately perfect. God is ultimately good. God is just the most pure
beneficial A plus thing that could possibly exist. What's better? A universe with just that God exists
or a universe with God as well as slavery. Like anything God could possibly make could not be
more than what God already gives in terms of virtue and virtue units. So why would a God create in
this situation where there's literally nothing this God can do to make things more virtuous than
they already is with Him present? Like I said, it doesn't make sense. At least it doesn't make
sense with this type of God that they're trying to sell to us. Could God not kill babies? Like
his real question. How dare you? I've gotten so many comments. I got like 4,000 comments on that
video and yeah, lots of people. I've had answers all across the spectrum. I've had evasions where
people don't answer the question. I've had question answers where people are like, yes,
he could have, but here's why he didn't. Other people tell me no, he couldn't because here's why.
No answer that's been convincing or anything like that. Oh, Eric, Eric. I see Stacey.
Warning Stacey is in the chat. Stacey's in the chat. She's off work. Everyone,
he told me he was going to do this before the stream. She's here. Stacey. So a little bit of
backstory for those not to know. I was in, I was in I think Neil's channel a few weeks ago and
we're basically, the conversation got on to like Canadian versus American cereal. Canadians have
a cereal called shreddies. Americans or United States has a cereal called shredded wheat and
we're talking about whether they were similar or not. And Stacey and her mom were like, hey,
we'll send you some shreddies so you can do a comparison. So I got the shreddies and Stacey
added in a bunch of other goodies. So I actually have three items here. I want to
bring it up to the chats. Okay. They sent me a bunch of stuff, but I have a few things here. I have
a, I have a Mars bar from Canada. I have a bar called Kara milk also from Canada that I've never
had before. And I got this bag of Hostess Hickory sticks. So these are the three things that I
chose tonight. I was going to leave it up to the chat, vote in the chat what I should eat
during the stream, the Mars bar, the caramel, the Kara milk, or the Hickory sticks. Just throw in
the chat. I'll see who wins or which one wins. And I'll start eating that here on chat. Thank you,
Stacey. This is, this is awesome. And I'm, and she also gave me an idea with the shreddies.
Also not a, also not a well-known fact, but Kellogg's the guy, the guy Kellogg that started
the Kellogg's corporation that does all these cereals down here in the United States. He invented
either corn flakes or some other bland food to curb masturbation in people who ate it. He
wanted to control people's masturbation habits through food. So I'm going to do an episode talking
about that while eating the shreddies that, um, that apostasy, or apostasy sent me because, uh,
shreddies I can tell are probably pretty bland. They're just, they're just wheat and there's no
sugar in it. So yeah, I'm going to do an episode on that. Yeah. That is so amazing. Um, yeah,
it was corn flakes. Pragmatic Crystal said it was corn flakes. So, yeah. So, um, so what you said, uh,
about, um, oh geez, the beer's catching up to me and I'm doing like a hard pivot. Which one are
you on? You're on two or three? I'm on two, one, two. Oh, really? Okay. I don't know why. Yeah,
well, they're strong beers, but, but still. I'm, I'm only halfway through this first one. These
are 25 ounce cans. These are like, these are two 12 ounce cans put together basically. So I'm,
I'm mostly the way through this one. I'll, I'll probably step out to go grab the other one out
of the fridge before, before a long, but yeah. Yeah. Cheers. Cheers. There's, um, what you were
saying before about how, um, they try and make, um, doctrine of work, right? There was this,
there's this story that I'm kind of in, but I'm currently investigating for a video.
Was Abraham insane or were Bible characters insane? Right? Like he got the story of Samuel.
He hears like a noise in the other room and he like goes and then the person's like,
I didn't say anything. And then he goes back and then like, uh, like a few times, like eventually
the person's like, it's like, he realizes it's God and it's like, damn dude. And like, like,
or, um, you know, just, you know, uh, Abraham, his, his voice tells me to kill his son and then he
goes and kills his son. And like there's all this, this wild stuff. Um, there's, uh, let me just
quickly, let me just quickly find something. Um, so much stuff can be explained. So much
stuff can be explained in the Bible from schizophrenia, schizophrenia, sleep apnea,
sleep paralysis, so many things can be explained. Yeah.
Yeah. Well, how do you, even just like, how do you tell the difference between the two?
So there was a, um, study that I read and someone said, um, I mean, it said in the study,
a man in his late 20s with paranoid schizophrenia explained during a neurological evaluation
that he could read minds and for years he had heard voices revealing things about friends
and strangers like he believed that, uh, he was selected by God to provide guidance for mankind.
Anti, uh, psychotic medications prescribed by his psychiatrist diminished these abilities
and reduced the voices. And therefore he would not take them. He asked, he asked, and I quote,
how do you know these voices aren't real? How do you know that I'm not the Messiah? He affirmed
God and angels talk to people in the Bible. And that was like his reasoning. And guys,
this is going to get really dark. I promise we're going to spin on out of the darkness route. Um,
in, in like five minutes, but bear with me. There was a story that I read about Andrea Yates and
Andrea Yates, um, was someone in the early 2000s who became convinced that her children, um, were
going to grow up and they were going to sin and they were going to end up in hell.
I remember this person from a Christian perspective, think about this from a Christian
perspective, you've got eternity forever. And when I was a Christian, I used to preach that
now we're in this zero time. We're in this time that's like literally you take anything divided
by zero. Um, though you take infinitely divided anything by the times anything by inventing,
it's like zero, like it's zero. Like you can't, like this is nothing. This is like a dormant
to wipe our feet on. This is like a spec in, in it's one grain of sand of all the grain of sand
in the universe. And that's not even touching how big infinitely is, right? And that's how long
eternity is. And it seems strange, it seems strange to Andrea that you would risk this life
for eternity. And she believed, as most Christians do, that children, when they reach the age of
accountability, um, the, the children before they reach the age of accountability go straight to heaven.
She had five children and she was petrified that they would go to hell.
And this is a photo of their family. Um, so they're the four boys, but I think she was the fifth one
later after this has taken. And one evening she decided to drown all five of them in the bathtub.
She decided to sacrifice herself and her salvation with the hopes of begging God for
forgiveness afterwards in order to protect them from becoming sinners after the age of
accountability and possibly ending up in hell. That logically works under the Christian worldview.
In what world would you let a child ever get to account to the age of accountability? You've
gone from a chance of them, uh, with a 0% chance of going to hell to anything over a 0%. Like you're
risking that child's eternity. So she murdered all five of them. And, uh, and there's another one
out, like I said, maybe there was four, but she murdered all of them. And, um, and she said, I've
got a quote here, um, from her, um, she said, uh, later in prison, Andrea said, it was the seventh
deadly sin. My children weren't righteous. They stumbled because I was evil and I was, uh, the
way I was raising them, they could never be saved. They were doomed to perish in the fires of hell.
She believed and she was, she was diagnosed with depression, post-bomb depression, um, and, uh,
psychosis and things like that. This gets it running out. But that logic works. And that's
kind of like the logic that it does actually, it works, which is unfortunate. Like why on earth
would you ever let a child get to, like it's, it's, it's, uh, you're not being a good parent. If you
let your child live to the age of accountability, right? It's Christian, Christian worldview, Christian
mathematics. It pans out. Yeah. All those kids are in heaven and she was, and, and, and she was
selfless in risking her eternal salvation to send, to guarantee her kids went to heaven.
Like, according to the Christian worldview, she's virtuous. She made a sacrifice,
or at least she put something very valuable up for risk for, for others. Yeah. It's, uh,
yeah, it's absolutely twisted. Um, and under, under a secular worldview where, hey, you know,
we have no guarantees of what happens after death. This life is what matters and there's no
eternal ward or salvation or, or, or eternal punishment in the afterlife.
Under operating under that, this is a huge tragedy. She denied those four kids,
you know, potentially happy, healthy lives because of essentially a paranoid delusion.
Like she, she, she thought that she was doing the right thing when really she was,
she was denying these kids their lives. Yeah. Um, yeah, she wasn't saying it was, it was,
it wasn't, it wasn't, I'm not saying that Christians do this. Um, but I'm just saying that
like the logic that she was using, like kind of works and it's, and that's, that's a scary thing,
especially the world. Yeah, in the weather worldview. Yeah. Um,
yeah, it's, it's, um, so it's, it's, it can be pretty scary and, you know, like one of the things
I wanted to kind of, um, jump onto and jump onto, um, is the section that I want to call
Jehovah's Witnesses, Goss. So I want you to tell us the Goss under the Jehovah's Witnesses,
but, uh, and it kind of ties into the energy age thing because one of the things that Jehovah's
Witnesses could consistently predict it is the end of the world. And if you think that the end
of the world is coming, you're going to, uh, make certain decisions and you're going to vote in
certain ways. You're going to do certain things. Who cares about the environment? The earth's about
to be rebuilt. Like, oh, all those types of things. Can you tell us a little bit a little
some, can we do a little bit of Jehovah's Witness Goss? Um, and you can like spill the beans on
what it's like. Uh, yeah, sure. Uh, before we do that, um, I saw Stacy mentioned the
caramel. So I'm opening the caramel to try it out. So awesome. I'm eating sugar with alcohol.
This might not turn out very well for me later on, but we'll see what happens. An upper and a
downer. Um, yeah. So it's good. So as you, as you, nice is, um, I'll, I'll read out a few predictions
by, um, the Jehovah's Witness organization as, um, you did at the delicious, um, bar. Um, but in
1916, the witnesses foretold that the First World War would lead to Armageddon. And soon after,
the Christ kingdom would be established on earth 1920. They said by 1925, the kingdom, um, of God
would be established on earth. After that didn't happen in 1938. The witnesses stopped conceiving
children and getting married because they were told Armageddon was looming in 1942. The Watchtower
Society, the Watchtower Society swore that Armageddon was just around the corner four years after
the, um, marriage, uh, the Maratorium on Marriages and Babies. In 1961, Armageddon was predicted to
arrive before the year 2000. In 1966, the witnesses predicted that the world would meet its wicked end
and Christ kingdom on earth would be established by the year 1975. In 1984, the witnesses reiterated
that the end of the world would come before the end of the 20th century. And now they've stopped
making predictions. Eight times. Yeah. So what up with that? Yeah. So the witnesses are notorious
for predicting the end of the world and being wrong about it. Um, so that very first day,
you mentioned 1916. Um, 1914 was actually the date that they first, well, I don't know if it was the
first prediction, but 1914 was a big date. Um, the witnesses were formed in the 1870s.
I think they had an end of the world prediction at the end of the 19th century, but I don't quite
remember exactly that's the case or not. But it was through biblical math with, you know, um,
through biblical math based off of when Jerusalem was destroyed and the 70 weeks of years and all
this other biblical mumbo jumbo, they came to the conclusion that 1914 was going to be the year
that something would happen. And it was very much among them believe that this is when Armageddon's
going to happen. This is when Christ is going to step down, put an end to mankind's issues,
and essentially Armageddon and then a thousand year reign of Christ will begin. Uh, that didn't
happen. Uh, 1914 came and went 1914 happened to also be the start of World War One. So they
retroactively went back and said, Oh, just like any other failed doomsday prophecy. Once you,
once you're past that date, it didn't happen. You go back and recontextualize and reinterpret.
It was a spiritual Armageddon. Yeah. Yes. It was something basically like that. Uh,
Christ's thousand year reign began in 1914. Um, and then some other stuff happened during that
decade, like some of the Jehovah's Witness leadership were arrested and then later released.
And they had like a whole book on this, but they interpreted all these events and recontextualized
them to fit the reality that Armageddon didn't actually occur in 1914. Um, the funny thing too
is 1914 is their 1914 date is based off of an erroneous, uh, uh, date that they put the, uh,
first destruction of Jerusalem on. They think Jerusalem was first destroyed in 607 BCE when
in reality it was destroyed in 574 576 BCE. They were off about 30 years. Um, but back then they
didn't know that. And so now a mass, a vast majority of scholarship says no, Jerusalem was
first destroyed in 570 something BCE. And the witnesses are like, no, we can't change this
because this is even, even after the failed 1914 thing and they recontextualized it,
they built their entire religion off of that date still like 1940. It's a huge date in the
Jehovah's Witness, you know, mythos. They cannot change that. And that means they cannot go back
and, and agree with scholarship on when Jerusalem was first destroyed. They simply cannot do that.
Oh, and that's another way the devil has been affecting everyone. And, um, yeah.
Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Actually, yeah, uh, 1914, uh, that was when, when Christ
thousand year reign began, that's when he kicked Satan and his demons out of heaven. Um, one of
the pictures I showed last night was a bunch of demons or angels, demons falling to earth.
That was supposedly 1914 when, when Jesus kicked out Satan and his demons out of heaven and they
became permanent residents of earth. Um, oh man, you're going to be hard pressed to find it. It's,
it's way in there. It's just everyone go check out this for those who missed it. Go check out
yesterday's stream on skepticism scandals. We rated demons and tea lists and it was actually
really good. It was really interesting. Um, I learned a lot, but essentially, and, and that's,
and that's, and then, and they say, man, you're making me recall all kinds of
stuff they taught me. Uh,
Trauma. Trauma. Yeah. When, when Satan and his demons were, were kicked out of heaven in 1914,
that's when World War I started on earth. And supposedly that's when we're earth got a whole
lot worse than it was wars and famines and earthquakes and things became super bad because
this is now Satan's primary domain. Yeah. There's a lot more gays now. I reckon a lot more gays.
Exactly. Um, yeah, just, uh, I have to, I have to, I kept saying, I kept, for a while, I kept
saying the gays as like a joke, like, like a, like it was like, it's so far I'm hangover with you guys.
I heard he was a gay, like it was like the gays. It's like, but, but, and someone's like, you've
got to clarify your joking because people might tune in and think you weren't saying this from
the context of being a believer and we're mocking the believer. We're not mocking homosexuals. We're
mocking the believer for saying crap like this. Yeah. Yeah. I always make a joke now. If I'm,
if Atlas, our little boy ended up being straight, I'd love him anyway. Like I'm totally cool with
the straights. Um, Eddie Dean, thank you so much for the super chat. Eddie. Better late than never,
I guess. Any friend of Eric, his friend of mine, sub and notifications, notifications activated.
Thank you so much. I know guys like the stream. I really appreciate when you like the stream and
thank you so much, Eddie Dean for the super chats. I really appreciate that. It helps. I'm trying to
make this more of a full-time gig. And so I'm, and the more support we can get people liking,
favoriting, favoriting, but sharing and doing super chats, the more we can make stuff happen.
I'm actually saving up little, I'm going to tell you a little secret. I'm actually saving up for
a documentary camera to come to America land and do a road trip. So if everyone wants to
help see me make that happen, um, that is, that's, that's what you can do. Support the channel by
liking, subscribing, sending it to your fundamentalist auntie and super chatting or supporting us on
Patreon or, um, on YouTube, you can click the join button. So if you want to support the channel,
that's the best way to do it. Thank you so much. Um, so that's 1916, but what about 1925?
I don't, man, you know, here's the thing. Between 1914 and now they get very loose on details because
it is just more and more embarrassing with all their fail predictions. I don't know of anything
that happened in the 1920s or even the 1940s. The next major date I can recall with any type of,
of clarity is 1975. There was a big push amongst their beliefs that 1975 was going to be Armageddon.
Um, kind of, kind of at the levels of like Harold Camping and his whole doomsday prediction.
Witnesses were selling their houses. Witnesses were quitting jobs. They weren't, they were
cashing out their, their, their retirement policy or their retirement accounts and stuff because
they, they were like, well, the world's ending. We don't need to worry about any of this anymore.
Um, and 1975 came and went, uh, afterwards the organization started recontextualizing
things, kind of backing away from their frenzy that they had stirred up around that, basically
blaming the rank and file witnesses for reading too much into what they were saying, even though
they were very much, you know, throwing fuel on the fire. Um, uh, oh, Pragmatic Crystal. Yeah,
there you go. A bunch of dates. It's 1878 all the way up to 1925, 1975. Um,
who he thinks Pragmatic Crystal needs to start a YouTube channel? I was looking for you. I was
looking for your, I was like, does she have a YouTube channel? I'm assuming you're a she, sorry.
Um, do they have a YouTube channel? And I was like looking, um, I think you should,
because you seem to have a lot of knowledge and you're always around. Do it. Do it. I'll help you.
Prag is, Prag is very insightful. Um, yeah. Uh, Google, uh, Prag's Google foo is probably
very good or, or just has a really good memory. Uh, either way, yeah, it's, it's great. Um,
Oh, well, another super chat. Rutherford predicted 1925 in million, uh, in millions now living will
never die. That's why he bought this huge house in California for the profits now.
Yeah. That's a Beth, Beth Serum. That's a whole other story. Um,
but yeah, millions now living will never die is a publication that the witnesses put out back in
the twenties and it essentially, this is after 1914, 1914. So one of the ways they recontextual
is 1914 is that, um, remember Jesus's, uh, promise that this generation shall not pass before these
things, this generation shall not pass away before these things all come to pass like his promises
the witnesses took that scripture and basically said, Oh,
this means that the generation that was alive in 1914 would not die before Armageddon strikes.
Essentially, that's what they meant. So when 1914 occurred, nothing happened. They recontextualized
it as, Oh, this, we are now living within the generation that will see Armageddon and that's
now been 107, 109 years, 109 years now. Yeah. So it's like, it's, it's, it's like almost definitely
happened. So is there, is there, there's got to be a book that had that kind of like documents
these things and kind of like shows how the prophecy failed over and over and over again.
Yeah, there's probably, there's probably multiple books out there. I'm sure there's multiple videos
on it too. I suppose, I suppose I could, I suppose I could.
You're honestly good. Dude, you're a tech guy. Just get ChatGTP to do the bulk of it.
I could. Yeah. I'll be, I'll be the preface of the book. This book was written by ChatGTPT.
That would also absolve me of any inaccuracies in it because like, I didn't write this in AI did.
Yeah. But you know, the, the, the interesting thing is,
so here's, here's another instance where witnesses have had to reinterpret or
recontextualize the, the generation thing at 1914, that's been now 109 years. So obviously,
the generation that was alive in 1914 are gone. Like if there are any alive, there's literally
single digits probably being alive in 1914 and be alive now. Could happen any day.
I'm going to bet that it won't. The Ukraine thing, China, like it's all coming together,
you know what I'm like? Oh man. Back, back in the day, it was North Korea, it was Russia,
all kinds, anyway. But so here's how they, here's how they basically
re-recontextualize it for today. There is now an overlapping generations context or, or, or, or,
or doctrine that they're teaching. The generation that overlaps the generation from 1914, that's
the generation that's going to see Armageddon. And they, they had like a whiteboard in one of
their presentations. They had a whiteboard with a, with a chart. It is not clear. It is convoluted as
fuck. Even, even diagram of like, even, even witnesses who have seen this are like, what is
this guy talking about? Because they're, they've, they've hit a point where it's, they've become so
desperate to, to basically keep, keep the ball rolling, keep them believing. We're, we're still
in the last days. Yeah. Um, it's embarrassing at this point. It's super embarrassing.
It's sad that people live their lives like this. They live their lives like kind of looking
for death and hoping like they live their life with one foot in the grave because they're
constantly thinking about the afterlife. They're, um, you know, I have a dear Christian friend who,
they're still Christian somewhat, I would say. But I remember when I had conversations with them
about what I believe, they kind of started to think, damn, what if this life is the only thing
that we have? And it made them appreciate life so much more. They, all of a sudden, they started,
they started wanting to travel. They started wanting to take care of their body. They started
wanting to be kinder to people when like just, just an everyday life because they were like,
this could be it. This could be it. And, um, I, I, I so relate to that feeling. Do you ever,
do you have that feeling? Like, did you, did you, uh, do you have that feeling of like,
this is our only life, maybe, and I should live it to the best of my ability and, and live a good
life? Like what, tell us a little bit about that. That, yes. So there's a lot around this. But yeah,
the witnesses, witnesses believe that the world is going to end any day now. Armageddon will strike
at any time. Well, yeah. The world's like the last, like it has for the last 2000 years.
Yeah, exactly. The world's gonna get worse and worse and worse. The world's just gonna get worse
and worse and worse and worse and then Armageddon will strike. You don't need to worry about planning
for the future. Uh, and so now you have gent, literal generations of people making decisions
based off of the, the facts in their brains that the world's going to end tomorrow. So we're talking
about generations of people who do not buy houses, do not invest money into 401k retirement plans,
don't build careers. Um, don't make friendships because, you know, hey, this person's going to
eventually die at Armageddon and all these things just within my family. Um, and I was very much
under this mentality too, back when I was a witness, I was, I didn't go to college. That's
another thing too. Witnesses don't go to college because why go to college? The world's going
to end any day now. So take up a, take up a blue collar job. Um, don't worry about building a
career or making money or anything because that's all going to be worthless here in the near future.
Um, so yeah, I never went to college when I was a witness. I jumped from, from kind of just
menial job to menial job. I was a window washer. I was a tile setter. Um, I worked in a snow cone
hut at one point. Um, just you, you don't make decisions for the future. You make decisions for
a world that's going to end at any moment. So when I left the witnesses 14 years ago,
one of the first things I said to myself was I need to get educated. I need to get a degree.
I need to build a career. And so when I left the witnesses, I was actually at the lowest
point in my life financially. I was, this is 14 years ago now. I was $20,000 in debt. I had no
assets, no money. All I had was a truck, my stuff, and maybe about 300 bucks to my name when I moved
to Montana. I was, I was at the, I was at the bottom. I had, and I had no prospects either. Um,
once I left the witnesses and I started making better decisions, I
started focusing on, okay, I knew the tile trade. So I started making money doing tile in Montana,
pulled myself out of debt, got to the point where I'm like, okay, I did it. I'm going to get a
career going. So I went back to university, got my computer science degree, now I'm a software
developer. And because my, my, my decision-making process changed from the world's going to end
into any day now to I really need a plan for the future and have a retirement fund, buy a house,
all these things. Just, just because my goals, my outlook changed, my decisions improved greatly.
And if, if you talk to a witness, the witness would say, well, Satan's just giving you what
you want to keep you out. Oh yeah. Yeah. Of course. Yeah. It's not, it's not just better
decisions and just me doing things better than I was back when I was a witness. No, it was definitely
Satan. Satan's, Satan's totally just rewarding me to keep me out. Um, and yeah, so that's kind
of the outlook. But anyway, extending that to basically my family, I have, you know, I got members
of my family who they're, they're in their fifties and they have nothing. Like they have an apartment
with some stuff in it, no career, no retirement, um, multiple. I've seen, I've seen members of my
family and also friends make multiple bad financial decisions because, hey, they think this is what
God wants them to do. They think, they think, they think God wants them to sell everything they own
and go over to this area of the world and do pre-go over to this Jehovah's Witness branch
building somewhere in another state and work there and do the good work there. Um, yeah, just
craziness. You did actually, you did tell in the comments once, you did say in one of the
previous streams that you had a family member or a friend, I can't remember which one, but they,
you said, um, that they sold everything they own twice and to move, move somewhere and follow
what they believe God was telling them to do. Yeah, that's my, it's, it's my oldest brother.
He is, he's, I think he is the only family member of mine that is still in. Um, and I haven't, we,
we've, we've had very, very lean communication over the past decade, uh, because he, he, he knows I
no longer believe. I don't think he under, he really knows how full apostate I've gone. Um,
but, uh, for the most part, I've seen some of the decisions he's made in his life and it's,
I don't want to judge a person for their decisions. If they're happy, they're happy and that's great.
Yeah, but I've seen him, I've seen him make decisions based off of what he thinks God wants
him to do. It's basically decisions based off of gut feelings. You, you have a decision ahead of
you. So you pray and you get a fuzzy feeling. Oh, this is what I think God wants me to do.
This is what I think Jehovah's guiding me to do. And you base your decision off of that.
And it's, it's bonkers to me. And I don't want to sit here and say my life is so much better
compared to his because I really have no idea at this point. Um, but I know personally when I
started making decisions based off of rationale, logic, thinking about, okay, if I do this and
this will happen, if I do this, this will happen. If I give this upfront costs and I'll get a reward
for this later, you know, like with the case of like college and curing college debt in order
to get a better career later on, making rational, well-balanced way decisions has brought my life
to where it is now. And I'm very happy with where I am now. I'm not a multimillion or anything,
but I'm at least financially secure. I don't feel like the world's going to topple down on me
tomorrow if I miss a paycheck. Um, so it's like the peace of mind that brings to, I go day to day
not having to worry about a lot of problems that I know my brother's worrying about. And it, it
really breaks my heart that he, one thing he said to me a long time ago is that he wants to build
wooden boats. Like he has like, he has like a dream, like a passion. He wants to build wooden boats
to bring out onto the water. And he's waiting for, for Armageddon to pass and the new system
to come before he pursues that dream. And from my point of view, that's not going to happen.
Armageddon is not going to come because it's fake. It's, it's, it's just a, it's a superstitious
belief that's never going to come around. So he's giving up the opportunity he has to live his life
now for some promise of some future life later on. That's not going to happen. And it saddens me
because it's like, he's my brother. I love him. I want him to be happy and he's, he's not going
to be able to enjoy those things. And on top of that, he's lives under stress now, financial stress,
insecurity. I don't know what he's going to do when he's in retirement age and he can't work
anymore. Like how, how do you support yourself? You're going to be living off of welfare basically
for the rest of your life. Like it's just, yeah. And, and all because a religious organization
convinced him that, that the world's going to end. And in his defense, he was born into it too. I
don't, I just, I don't think sir, I was lucky. I didn't get out because I was smart. I didn't get
out because I was, I was clever. I got out because circumstances allowed me to get out.
Circumstances allowed me to wake up. I don't think, I don't think he's ever had that opportunity
presented to him and he's, he's still in. So yeah, it, I'm hoping one day he might wake up
and we can like reconnect and, and you know, rebuild a relationship and stuff like that. And
he can, he can take advantage of the time he has, but we'll see if that actually happens or not.
It's, yeah, it's, it can be sad that, you know, looking at this kind of stuff, I think I need to
make a, this was a bit of a joke. It is a joke, but it's also kind of serious. I want to apologize
to my little brother, Leo, I'm sorry that when you came and told me that you want to go to
university, I said to you, what good is a university degree in heaven, Leo? And he didn't go to
university. And it's funny because now he's at university, you know, 10 years later, he's almost,
he's halfway through his degree, he's killing it. And he's, he's going into this software kind of
esk realm IT as well. So he'll be much richer than I ever will be very soon. I had a similar
experience with this same brother. I'm sorry. Oh, really? Yeah. Go ahead, go ahead and finish
your thought first before I, my thought was only like, and I've done, I did university as well.
So like we both like, I said a lot of stupid things when I was younger, but but yeah, so continue.
The same brother from the same brother, from a place of kindness and concern for me,
told me the same thing when I shortly after I left the witnesses, maybe two or three years
after I left, I was telling everybody, I'm going back to college, I'm going to, I'm, I'm going to
call, I'm not going back to college, I'm going to college, go to get my degree, get a computer
science degree, all those things. And he was out of everyone I told, he was the only one that says,
no, you shouldn't do that. He said, I know a guy who built a career in computers without going to
college. That was his counter to that. And my response to him, I literally told him, I said,
cool story, bro. I literally, because that was a fresh meme at the time. So I said, cool story,
bro. For every person you can point to, for every person you can point to that did that,
I can point to 20 who went to college and got a good career in computers. So he stopped at that
point. I kind of, I don't want to say shut them up at that end of the conversation there. But out
of the out of a good place, he discouraged me from going to university. And had I listened to him,
I would not be here right now. I wouldn't have what I have. Looking back, from a career perspective,
looking back, I would have made the same exact decisions that I made to get myself here again,
because I, I like I said, I was making decisions based off of what I know, and based off of
rationally evaluating what the consequences of the decisions would be. And yeah, so he was the
only one that discouraged me from doing that. I am grateful. I ignore the advice because I wouldn't
be here right now. Yeah, I wanted to. So first of all, River City Films. Thank you so much for
the super chat. Put this towards Leigh's tuition. You know, I'm heading down to Melbourne. I will
give him the five bucks. I'll film it. I'll make it a short. I'll put it on. I'll put it on this
YouTube channel. So make sure you subscribe so you can see that me giving Leigh his five bucks.
I guess I won't send him this video so he doesn't know the context yet. But thank you, River City
Films. I do want to, there's been so many amazing comments. I do want to quickly read out a couple
that have just been awesome. So the governor said they left, the Jehovah's Witnesses, 54 years ago,
and they're still preaching the same old shit, poo emoji. Yeah, I mean, that's wild. Like it's
you must have such a story. You must have a very strong opinion, the governor. I'd love to learn
more about that. That's crazy. What they're preaching is the same, but how they're preaching
is different because now they have their tactics have changed. But for the most part,
the message is basically the same. Armageddon is going to hit any day now. Get ready. Yeah.
Melody Joy said, lots of Protestant churches preaching this too, that Jesus is coming back
any day now. I had a counselor who was going through their psych degree at 50 something years
old. And they said, don't they said, I didn't do my psych degree in the 70s because I thought that
Jesus was coming back in 78 or 74, which is what the church is preaching at the time. So yeah,
apostasy. Yep. I believed in the rapture only a few years ago. 100% like it's, it's, it's, it's,
it's crazy. It's crazy. Yeah. And it's, can anyone beat 54 years?
Sapir, I think, I hope I said your name right there. Sapir. I'm not very good at names,
but pretty dope that Satan have your back like that, honestly. Thanks, Satan. Thanks for,
thanks for blessing my decisions. Hit the like fan. Thank you so much,
Pragmatic Crystal. Seriously, Pragmatic Crystal. Reach out. Just let me, just reach out to me
on Twitter and let me talk to you about it. Like let's, let's get on a phone call and let's chat
about it because I think you're very wise. And hey, everyone, good vibes. My, my fame is also
JW, well-meaning people. God bless. Yeah, they can be. And like, and that's the thing is like,
well, I'm not trying to take a stab at that people in this religion. Yeah. This is just,
this is just how it is. And the one thing I want to, I also want to stress that as well is that
it's easy to conflate Jehovah's Witnesses between the organization and the people because they're
all called Jehovah's Witnesses together. I, I try my best to differentiate the organization,
the, the, the head honchos and their goons running the operation compared to the followers.
So when I trash talk to Jehovah's Witnesses, I am trash talking the organization. I'm not
trash talking to the people because I, like I said, I'm, I'm not special. I didn't leave
because I was smart. I was lucky in the way I got out. There's lots of other people in there
that aren't so lucky. And yeah, absolutely do not want to tear into them. You want to tear
into the organization. There's something I want to touch on too is this, this, this narrative
in churches, especially Jehovah's Witnesses, but in Protestant Christianity as well,
that the world is getting worse and worse and worse and worse. It's not, it actually is not.
I encourage people to go read Enlightenment now, the case for reason, science, humanism and progress.
Just statistic after statistic after statistic, murder rates going down, survival rates of infants
going down, cancer rates going down, like violent crimes going down, poverty going down, like in,
in per capita society is getting better in almost every metric that you can measure.
Like it's a, it's a narrative that's pushed to us by churches, by the mainstream media
organizations, by drama, like drama cells. But the world is actually getting fairer and more equal
and better for everyone. I'm not saying it's perfect everywhere, but it's just,
it's definitely getting better. And it's, I encourage people to read that book because it'll
change your perspective. And it definitely helped me get out of those shackles for thinking of like,
the world is getting worse. It's not, it's actually getting way better. There are problems.
The number, the number of, the number of negative occurrences might be in some areas going up,
but per capita is going down. It's only going up because the population is going up. But the rate
at which per person that those things are occurring is going down. And another, another key thing too
is that our ability to report these things has drastically increased and sped up. We have the
internet, we have 24 seven news. When something bad happens in Bangladesh, we know minutes later
that has occurred. They didn't have that back in the eighties or in the seventies.
So just, just our ability to report negative news has gone up. That does not mean negative news
has in fact gone up. It's, it's, we're now more aware of more of it because we have,
we can report it much more easy. Yeah. That's absolutely something the witnesses do as well.
They're, they're, they're saying, oh, the world's getting worse. This is signs of the signs of the
end earthquakes everywhere, blah, blah, blah. And it's, it's all bunk. It's, it's not going.
Yeah. I do want to point out too, like I know, and definitely a lot of people might feel,
might not feel like the world is getting better. There is definitely a lot of issues around
homophobia, transphobia, misogyny and things like that. The fact that these things are in
the public discourse, you could argue is almost like, at least we're, at least it's there. At least
people have got strong opinions about it. And, you know, channels like deep drinks will always
be pushing for equal rights for LGBT folks and, and women's rights and things like that. But,
and, but I'm glad it's in the discourse, but I can understand if it doesn't feel like things are
getting better, especially in America land where things, no offense, seems to be getting pretty
wild these days. Like, holy shit. Yeah. I'm, I'm so sorry for my country. This is embarrassing.
I'm so sorry for over going. I'm like, what is good? Like the rest of the world are like,
we're like, like, you see that dog meme that's like, they're just like side-eyeing like,
it's like the dog side. Yeah. What the fuck's happening over there? Yeah. Yeah. There's a,
there is a saying, there's a saying that the first step to solving a problem is acknowledging
there's a problem. So with, with our social issues of LGBTQ rights, and now we have the
trans rights and other things, the fact that these, that these problems, not problems, but
these issues are now in the public light, this is the first step to solving them and, and addressing
them properly. So even though it seems like it's gotten worse, we're actually a step closer to
making it better. So yeah, I'm, I'm, I'm happy that these, these issues are in the public light
right now because we are going to eventually work them out. We're eventually going to have sound,
a social discussion around them and sound was just like, you know, like,
while not completely put to bed, homosexual rights are for the most part in the United States,
like the more and more widely accepted. And, and think 30 years ago about, don't ask, don't tell,
like, yeah, how much progress we've made since then. And imagine the progress we're going to have
from now, 30 years in the future with LGBTQ and trans rights. So yeah, it's, it's going to be better.
It was a time when homosexuality was illegal.
Was it like 50 years ago? Yeah, it was probably still legal in some states. Yeah.
Some of our, some of our states in the United States, like so each, each state in the United
States is his own contained government and have like their own laws. As long as they don't conflict
with federal law, they're for the most part permitted. So there are probably still states
there are definitely still states that ban atheists from holding office. And I'm sure there's going
to be some states that are still disallowing homosexuals to exist. I think, I think Michigan,
I think it was just recently made known that Michigan still has a law where unmarried people
cannot live together. Whoa, really? Yeah. Sodomy laws in Texas. Yeah. Do you know, it's so funny
because the sodomy that they're probably getting that law from includes oral sex, like in the biblical,
like, that's like, I remember, I remember it's so funny because I remember talking about butt
stuff, butt sex with a guy at a church and like a leader. And they said, you know, when you want
to do that, it's disgusting. I would want to do that. Like, and, and I'm just like, well, I'm just
kind of like, I'm a young man, full of testosterone. I'm just trying to work out what the rules are.
And, and they're like, you know, and then like, you know, it can cause damage. I remember running
all in like all these things. And then, and I said, what about, you know, oral sex? Oh,
that's fine. It's totally fine. And then later on, I found out, you know, that it's the same thing.
And I was like, because he's, oh, that's right. Because he told me that the Holy Spirit would
tell me which one's okay, which one's not okay. You tell me, you know, you can, you tell the
butt stuff is not okay. Right? Yeah. This makes me sound like I'm into just totally in the bus.
But if you turn around conversation, if you turn around and tell them, yeah, the Holy Spirit told
me that bus stuff's okay, he's going to say, no, no, no, you misinterpreted it. Yeah. Let me tell
you what the Holy Spirit really means. Yeah. Eddie, thank you again for another super chat.
Have you ever have either of you seen knock at the cabin? No, I've not. Is that like a movie?
That sounds like a movie. That sounds cool. Knock at the cabin.
M9 Shyamalan. Oh, that's a new one. That's a new, yeah, I remember here. Oh, it's the,
is it the one about the cabin? Oh, we'll have to check it out. BS Lewis said,
I take a break and come back to butt stuff. Yes. Oh, I think I, I remember hearing red
letter media talk about this. So the caption for knock at the cabin, one sentence, while
vacationing, a girl and her parents are taken hostage by armed strangers who demand that the
family make a choice to avert the apocalypse. That's interesting. That's interesting. But it's,
but it's M9 Shyamalan. I don't know. I liked his movie signs. I really liked that. Signs is good.
Yeah, I like signs. Okay, we're going to hit through some, some questions before we end,
because we still want to get through some JW Goss and I've, and I can't go for too much longer.
But so River City Films and my mother ask the question, 144,000 in heaven? What, what about
those before the 144,000? So can you tell us about that? Good question. Yeah. So I'll do the speed
run through that. Witnesses divide up their rank among two groups, the little flock, which is the
literal 144,000, and the gray crowd, which is a great crowd of people that quote, no man is able
to number as quoted in Revelation. The 144,000 are the Christ anointed followers of God who
will upon their death or upon encountering Armageddon without having died yet will be raptured to heaven.
Essentially, the 140,000 little, little flock will be eventually raptured to heaven
to rule alongside Christ as kings and priests. So these are the individuals with like the heavenly
hope. According to witness belief, there has been members of the 144,000 ever since Jesus
sacrificed himself. So over the last 2000 years, 144,000 people will eventually go to heaven to be
kings and priests. Everyone else will, if they die before Armageddon, they'll be resurrected
on earth after Armageddon. Or if they survive through Armageddon, then they survive through
Armageddon. And that's the great crowd. And the great crowd will rebuild earth into a paradise and
live forever as humans in paradise on earth, while the 144,000 are permanently in heaven.
So that's the two kind of classes within the Jehovah's Witness belief. They get 144,000 from
the book of revelations, literally the 12 tribes of Israel, numbering 12,000 members each.
They take that and they make those numbers literal and say, these are the ones that are going to
go to heaven. So that's basically what it comes from.
So no one before Jesus goes to heaven, River City films?
No one before Jesus goes to heaven because Jesus hadn't set that yet once he was on the earth.
Where are they? They're in hell?
No. So witnesses don't believe in hell. Witnesses are essentially annihilationists.
So all humans that have died before Armageddon are dead, but they're in God's memory.
And after Armageddon, when God starts resurrecting dead humans, he will recall people out of his
memory and make them alive again in the new system. So those that died before Jesus did
will be resurrected after Armageddon to live on earth. That includes Moses, that includes Abraham,
that includes all of the prophets. Anyone before Jesus is essentially going to be resurrected.
So that's where it comes from. And then if you are, a little bit, right? Individuals that are
really bad, let's say like Judas Iscariot, Judas Iscariot and Adam and Eve, those are
definitely the three. No hope of resurrection. They are annihilated and gone forever. There's
no hell. There's no suffering. They're just gone. Like they no longer exist. Yeah.
That doesn't sound that bad. Like annihilation doesn't seem that bad.
That's not that bad. Yeah.
One of the things I'm grateful for about being a Jehovah's Witness is like,
the people I've talked to since I started my channel, Hellfire, the fear of hell is still
very much real. It's a real generator of fear in their life. It's a real generator of stress.
Even if after they've left and they no longer believe, they've been taught these things ever
since they were kids. My wife has to deal with this every once in a while. Just Hellfire is just a,
it's just a scary concept. And especially if you're taught it from birth, and yeah, it can really
lead to negative side effects or negative psychological effects. As a witness, that's
kind of one of the benefits about being a witness. There's no Hellfire talk to you. So there's,
the worst thing that could possibly ever happen to you is you're destroyed and dead forever.
And when I left the witnesses, I just simply accepted that, hey, I want to die one day. I'm
not going to come back. There's no resurrection. So I didn't have to worry about eternal torment.
So that helped my exit out. But I absolutely feel and sympathize for those who have to deal with that,
that fear of Hellfire even after they leave. I can't imagine having to deal with that.
Yeah, it's, we did this stream called the Hellcast once on my other channel.
They are the channels kind of dead that I'm focusing on my intention on deep drinks. But
yeah, it's a real thing. People are really afraid of Hell. I mean,
it's quite brutal. I might do another Hellcast on deep drinks. I think that might be cool.
Let me know in the comments right now. Let me know in the chat if anyone would like to see a
Hellcast, a discussion on Hell. Also, we've got a few more questions, but I want to share that.
Go check out Skeptics and Scoundrels on YouTube. Amazing content. I especially encourage everyone
to go watch Could God Not Kill Children? It's right here. 101,000 viewers. It's a really good
video, really well produced. It's awesome. You also have a Twitter that people can follow, Skeptics
and Scound. And you can check that out. Links in the description as always. I'll also put it in the
chat right now. And if you guys want to support this channel, you can go over to Deep Drinks
and help support this channel. In fact, that's how Eric and I met. He actually was one of the
first, the original. Let me scroll down. I'm giving everyone a piece of paper.
What are the original 12? You're one of the 12 disciples. It was a far back. I post a lot.
There's the Pope. There's the Pope of Deep Drinks.
So, yes, this has gone back too far. Where are you? I should be at the bottom left.
There we go. That's the original 12 Deep Drinks disciples. The first 12,
I mean, if people cancel the subscriptions, that's totally okay. But this is the first
12 people who supported me. You got some high-profile people in there, too. You got
Nitty. You got Gulls Engineer. You got Josh Bowen. Matthew Mauger.
Matthew Mauger, yeah. I got a couple of good friends in there. And Dee is awesome. She's
always around. Cheryl, she's awesome. I mean, I'm going to shout at everyone, but they're
all so helpful. But if you want to support this channel, check out the Patreon. Or you can click
the Join button on the YouTube channel. And I'm going to start adding some cool things on there,
doing some polls and stuff like that. And I'm thinking about doing this... Tell me what you
think. All right, two things. In the chat right now, tell me, do you want Deep Drinks to do a
Hellcast? And two, should I start a series called Deep Drink Driving, where I play truck simulator
while drinking alcohol by myself? I take callers. Anyone can call in. We talk about stuff. And then
when I crash, the stream ends. Deep Drink Driving. It's just a probably end. It's Deep Drink Driving,
right? Because mid-sentence is gone. Tell me, is Hellcast a good idea? Or it's...
Nitty, you're definitely high profile. Yes, I'll do both. I should do both. Yes, yes. So I'm
actually looking at... If I do it, I'll actually have to get like a Truckers Hat, a Deep Drinks
Truckers Hat, and I'll wear... Oh, yeah. Yeah. I've never played Trucker Simulator, so I don't
even know if it'll work, but I just like the idea of a show called Deep Drink Driving. It's popular
for a reason. Yeah, you probably like it. No, okay. Do I need to get the whole steering wheel,
do you reckon? Or can I play it on the keyboard and mouse? Ooh, steering wheel would be more fun,
though. It would be, and like a gear stick and stuff. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Gear stick pedals, everything.
Yeah. Okay, last couple of questions. Do the drivers have different scriptures? So
I know that they change scriptures, like maybe I think it's John 1-1 and Hebrews 1-8. Yeah. Yeah,
yeah, you're right on that. So the Jehovah's Witnesses have their own specific translation
they use called the New World Translation. New World Translation. New World Translation. I believe
scholarly consensus says that this is actually a poor translation because they've taken liberties
in areas. And you mentioned John 1-1, which is, so Jehovah's Witnesses are Unitarian. They don't
believe in a Trinity. They believe that God, Jesus, and the Holy Spirit are all three separate
entities, to say the least. But for John 1-1, I typed in John 12-1, John 1-1 is kind of a
point of contention when it comes to the New World Translation, because John 1-1 simply says,
in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God, which
General's Consensus is talking about Jesus. Jesus is the Word. So in the beginning was the Word,
so the Word was there at the beginning, the Word was with God, so God was with God,
and the Word was God. Jesus was God. The Jehovah's Witnesses put in an A in the second to the last
word of that scripture, so it changes it from the Word was God to the Word was A God. So the Jehovah's
Witnesses, they insert that, I think it's called an indefinite article using the A in there,
they insert that in there, and it changes the scripture because they don't believe that Jesus
and Jehovah are one. They believe that Jesus is actually God's only begotten Son. Jesus was a
creation of Jehovah God. So yeah, so they have that. That's one of the differences. What was the
other scripture you mentioned? Hebrews 1-8, and these were off the top of my mom's dome,
20 or 30 years after the fact, so they might not be spot on. I'll be surprised if you know that.
I'm not familiar with Hebrews 1-8. Hebrews 1-8 says, New International Version,
but about the Son, he says, your throne, O God, will last forever and ever. A scepter of justice
will be the scepter of your kingdom. So let's see what the New World translation says on that one.
While you're looking that up, guys, we're trying to get to 2,000 subscribers. We're 20
subscribers away, so if you haven't subscribed, slipety slap that like, that subscribe button
and like the stream. It makes a huge difference to the algorithm gods. Yeah, send us your fundamental
auntie and then show me some screenshots of the conversation.
If anyone sends this to a Jehovah's Witness family member, I would, and then send this to you. I'd
love it. Just do it, please. Someone send me screenshots on Twitter. So New World translation
of Hebrews 1-8 says, but about the Son, he says, God is your throne. God is your throne forever and
ever. And the scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of uprightness. So I see that it says,
okay, so in the new, in the NIV, it says your throne, O God, will last forever and ever,
but New World translation says, God is your throne forever and ever. So yeah, I can see a key
difference there where the New World translation is attempting to make Jesus look like not God.
That's an interesting one. I haven't come across that before. But yeah,
Witnesses don't believe in the Trinity. They believe that they're all separate entities.
There's Jehovah. Jehovah's very, very, very first creation was Jesus,
and then the Holy Spirit is not like an entity person. It is just the name that God's active
force, God's power is given. So yeah, so when Jehovah sends his power to go do something,
that is the Holy Spirit, but it's not autonomous. It is not its own individual. It is just simply
a name given to a power. Really, really weird. I mean, the Trinity is where to begin with,
but the fact that the Witnesses are like, no, this is too weird for us. We're going to make it
weirder. Yeah, it's crazy. There's something I do want to share as well on that is there's a,
so on that John 11 verse, right? That's actually quite an interesting verse. Let me just show
you something. So this is from a video that I put on my channel called Christianity's Lost
Diversity. The church won't teach this. I'm super proud of this video. I think it's amazing,
but I'll talk about the, I'm just so amazing, guys. The beers have hit me, but the, I'm talking
with Neil Nostokinformin is talking about the Valentinian Christian church,
and he talks about that scripture one John. Let me just see. Let me just hopefully this plays
the audio. The Valentinians have a very close, are very close to the Sethians,
but they're more Pythagorean. You guys hear that? Yeah, we hear it. They have this like
Dematria system. Everything's numbers. Jesus is Dematria is 888 in Greek. So he's like this,
like perfect logos because there's, there's 20, there's 24 letters in the Greek alphabet.
There's eight Monads, eight Heptads, or eight Agduans. So he's 888. He is the word. He's the
all convincing alphabet. Valentinus was one of the most highest bishops in the Roman Empire,
and during his time period, he was popular and famous. He almost became the Bishop of Rome,
which is the Pope. He had a student named Marcus Magis, who had a trinity, and it was the, the
Monad, which splits off into the Duod. So it's all mathematical stuff, but this Duod was Christ
and Zoe. So Christ is the Logos, Zoe is life. And then if you look at the book of John, it says in
the beginning was the Logos, and the Logos was with God. So let me just pause it there. So you see
in the beginning was the Logos, and the Logos was with God. Yeah. So the word Logos means word.
Will they translate it between word, but let's continue. Spurs 4, it says life in life was with
Christ or whatever. This is all from the Bible. They're not just like making this up randomly.
They're getting this from John. Like they're, they're, they're backed by the Bible. They have
like reasons to believe in what they believe. So that's like, that's like a sect of Christianity.
In this section of the video, we go through like all these like really lost, weird,
sects of Christianity. And in that sect of Christianity, they're like, they believe like
everything is numbers and they believe like it's, it's really wild. So it's, it's funny how like
even, even back then pre-Bible, they were translating these, these scriptures in John to
be different. And now that the, and now even the, the Javis witnesses are doing the same thing.
That's incredible. Witnesses, witnesses have a lot of beliefs based off of number games,
especially in the book of Daniel. That's how they came to the 1914 dates. That's how they've come
to other dates. It's just, it's just, it's like, you know, Charlie Day from, it's always sunny.
They got a, they got a board with string and they're like connecting everything. And like,
this never means this and this never means this. And even though this says years, this is actually,
you know, this is weeks of years. This means like, you know, every seven years, it's just craziness.
And, and when you, when you get into that kind of game, when you get into that kind of, of,
of mathematics, for lack of a better word, anything can happen. You can make any number mean
anything you want. You can point to any date you want. It's just all you gotta do is pull
up a thought behind it and make it work. Which is why the witnesses have failed prediction after
prediction because it's, it's nonsense. Yeah. Okay. Wrapping up. I've got a few questions
for you. Thank you for coming on the stream. It's, it's been, it's been awesome. I hope it's
fun. The first of many is, I could just talk to you for hours. It's been, it's been really
enjoyable. Sadly, three of my beers have perished, not all four. I'm, I have not been the best
deep drinker, but oh, actually not perished. I've still got my beer here. Let me have two and a
half beers. My gosh. Anyway, thank you for coming on. I got a few questions just as we wrap up.
So first of all, what advice would you give to others who may be considering leaving the
driver's witness faith slash cold, who are in the process of doing so? Yeah. So
obviously be careful. Even, even if you aren't entirely planning on leaving,
but even voicing criticisms or questions can get you into trouble. And it can feel like you're
very much alone because you're in an, you're in an environment where if you question or talk to
anybody about things, things, and it gets back to an elder, somebody could rat you out, cause
trouble for you. It's stressful. It's, it's almost like you're walking on glass and in a minefield.
I don't have a clear answer about how to navigate that. Do your best to do your own research,
be critical for just a little bit to like, if one of the biggest things that I had to worry about
when I was leaving the witnesses was giving up the things I was promised, giving up eternal life,
giving up the idea that God is looking out for me, giving up the idea that I am special in some
way and the world is not. Let go of the need to be special. Let go of the need to be some
special creature that belongs to a divine being. Let go of the need to live forever. Just
when I say let go of it, I'm not saying just boof is gone. Just set it aside for a little bit.
Set it aside. Don't make that a priority. It'll still be, if you want to go back to it,
it's still there. You can go back to it, but just, just for a little bit of time,
set aside those emotional needs and just really look at things objectively. Ask yourself, is this
in fact, does this in fact make sense? Is this supported by the world we live in, by reality,
by rational reason and logic? And do your best to navigate those waters. I can't, I could,
I could sit here and tell you, yeah, God isn't real. You should become an agnostic. You should
become an atheist. I can't, I can't do that because you got to come to your own conclusions
about these things based off of your research and your evidence. And we're not even advocating
that, Eva. We're not. Yeah. Yeah. It's not like an atheist evangelist or anything. Yeah,
absolutely. And I mean, obviously like I'm an agnostic and I'm an atheist. So I think that that
is a accurate reflection of reality. I don't guarantee myself that's an accurate reflection
of reality, but that's the conclusion I've come to. And I, I just want people to come to their
own conclusions, pressure free from family, pressure free from an organization who'll
exact retribution on them if they are, if they do dare to question, because there, there is no
such thing as an intellectual freedom within the Jehovah's Witnesses. And that's kind of one of
the things I have on my, on my banner, on my, on my YouTube page is intellectual freedom,
the ability just to think without repercussions. But yeah, just do your best.
Try to find the answers network. The internet's a great thing. You can go online anonymously.
You can network with people. If you are a Jehovah's Witness and you're watching this and you're
wondering about things or you want to ask questions from somebody who's just not in the
organization, feel free to reach out to me. I have a Twitter, I have a YouTube page on my YouTube
page is my email address. I will not immediately jump on to pressuring you to become an agnostic
or an atheist. That's not my goal. If you come to me with questions saying, I'm, I got the situation
or I don't know what to do or what do you think about this? I'll give you my answers and I'll
let you do with those answers, what you want to do with those answers. I will not tell you what
you should do with those answers because that's, that's not what I do. And that's something that
the witnesses do, which I absolutely hate. But yeah, take advantage of the internet,
do your own research and logic, do some networking, expand your horizons, meet new people. And
like I said, put aside the want and the need for just, even just for a little bit,
try to be a little more objective. Pine Creek Doug says, be a little more dead inside. Like,
put aside that need for a little bit because it'll clear up your mind and allow you to reach
more accurate conclusions. Yeah, I would, I would tack on to that and give some random advice,
if not, it wasn't Jehovah's Witness. But for me, find online communities, go over the skeptics
and scoundrels if you're an extra Jehovah's Witness and pop up in the chat. Like we really,
like us content creators, we start to notice, we start to see the same names pop up and we
really appreciate it. And get involved in communities and discord communities. Deep Drinks
has one. Of course, you're always welcome here to talk about stuff. And even if you are, like,
our discord server has Muslims and Christians and one of the discord, the first discord model
was a Christian, but, but we, and we primarily talk about religion, philosophy and science over there.
But just get involved in these communities and just be, be fine areas online where you can be
free. If you're scared about losing your family and stuff. Another thing I would suggest and,
and that really helped me is travel, travel the world. Like, yeah, just travel, go, go find places
that go find, go talk to people. I'm not talking about like travel to like Canada, not saying Canada
is a bad place, not saying like travel to something like, for us, it's New Zealand. New Zealand is
our Canada, much more beautiful than Australia. And, well, in some ways, and, you know, nice people.
But, but travel, travel somewhere where like, they have a completely different perspective of
the universe. And you have a, and get to try and get to know that, try and put yourself in
their shoes and get to know them as, as people. And, you know, I love this quote by, and I'll
just pull it up called from Mark Twain, who said, travel is faithful to prejudice, bigotry,
and narrow-mindedness. And many of our people need it solely, solely on these accounts,
broad, wholesome, charitable views of men, and things can be, cannot be acquired by
vegetating in one little, one's little corn, sorry, in one little corner of Earth, all of one's
lifetime. So I'm just going to dump that in the chat because I read it. I was just about to mention
that same quote from Mark Twain. Yeah. Traveling breaks down bigotry. Traveling gets you out of
side of the box that you've grown up in. I, I recently had the fortune of going into Japan
for a couple of weeks. Japan's a very secular country. Buddhism and Shintoism is, is pretty
prevalent there. Christianity is a minority. And you go to that country and you see how polite
and friendly they are. The food, the, there's so many benefits that that country enjoys. And
it's, it's really eye-opening because it's, it's something completely foreign to what I was,
what I've grown up around and what I've known. Yeah, travel is such a great way to expand your
horizons and to really expand your outlook because it, the world is such a wide, a huge and wide
place and you don't even realize it yet. And I can't wait till the next country I go to. I'm
probably going to go someplace, maybe hopefully Europe and just continue to do that because it's,
it's, it's an eye-opener. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. If you, if you can travel, do it.
Yeah. The fun story, when we were in Europe traveling, we were watching Game of Thrones at
the same time and must have influenced my psychology to be going to places where people were tortured
in castles and all this stuff and watching Game of Thrones. Because when I was sleeping one night
in Paris, my wife was on the phone and I was sleeping and I spoke to her and I said,
Throw down the dungeons. She's lower than Ponskum.
Amy's like on the phone like,
fuck. But yeah, it's definitely, it's definitely cool. The world is so beautiful and amazing and
wild. Celine had a comment I want to read out before we go. I'm going, I'm going to hell according
to my Southern Baptist father. He also rejected my transgender sons, fundamental and destroys
families. I'm very sorry to hear that your father has said that and also the rejection of
your transgender sons. I really am sorry to hear that, Celine. And it's good to see everyone in
the chat being very friendly to you there. It's, it's not nice. It's horrible. Fundamental, fundamentalism,
dogma, it destroys families and it's horrible. Yeah. Yeah. And Celine, that's, that's, yeah,
that's tragic. A lot of, a lot of people don't enjoy their family life like they should be able
to because of religion gets in the way. Yeah. Be strong and be the person your father should be.
That's probably the best thing you can do for your kids. So yeah. Yeah. Your, your, your, your
children will never have to go through what your father has put you through. And, and remember,
he's a victim. He's a victim as well. Like his, his mind's been twisted. His, his, his under a spell
is the way I like to think of it. And it's horrible, but it is what it is.
Okay. Two questions. What, if anything, would change your mind?
Evidence. I would say that evidence is the only thing that'll change my mind.
You can bring me a really reasonable argument, but if it's not backed up by evidence, then
I'm not going to adopt it. What evidence would that be? I like Matt Dillon,
and he's a response to that and that if your, if your God is real and he really knows me,
your God will know what evidence he'll take to convince me. So yeah. It's not, not only, here's
the thing too, like it's an uphill battle with me when it comes to the belief in a God, especially
believe in the Christian God, because not only do you have to provide me evidence that this,
that a God exists, but you have to provide me evidence that the Christian God exists.
And then you have to also provide the evidence. If you want me to go a step further, like I,
at that point, I'll believe that God exists. I will no longer be an atheist and I'll say,
yes, okay, I believe this God exists. If you want me to go one step further into worshiping that
God, now you have to tell me, explain to me all the atrocities in the Bible, give me why
they happen, give me justification, convince me that somehow that was supposed to be the way it
was supposed to be. So you can get me to the point of accepting that a God exists, but to get me to
worship that God, that's going to take you a whole lot more effort beyond that. But yeah,
evidence will be, will be first and foremost, what's going to convince me, because lack of
evidence is what got me out. Positive evidence will be, will be what gets me back in.
Sounds like you just want to sin, Eric.
Yeah, I just want to sin. Yeah, I just want to, I just want to get plaster every night on,
on fake Australian beer.
So what is the most, so, okay, hypothetically, a genie tells you or something tells you that
there is one true religion on earth. And it's not like some one that no one's heard of, it's one of
the ones that you can Google. What is three months? Yeah, and you have to, you have to decide which
one it is. And you know, one of them is true. But you just, you just have to point to which one.
What is the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in?
I'd have to go with probably Buddhism, because if I'm so many people do. Yeah, because Buddhism
doesn't require belief in a deity. So Biocma's razor, that's already the most plausible one.
And also Buddhism just is just a way of explaining life and how we see, you know,
things die and things are born. And hey, maybe the things that are born are reborn from things
that have previously died. Like you can see it kind of fit into a framework that, you know,
things we observe. There's, there isn't too much of a stretch beyond, you know,
like there's things you don't see, like Christianity is there's a God and heaven and angels that you
don't see. Buddhism is just working with what we see on the planet. So yeah, that'll probably be the
safest bet. But okay, if Buddhism is too easy of an answer, and I had to pick a religion outside of
that. Oh man, I've never, never looked too far beyond that. What's the best?
You've got to pick like a theistic version. Yeah, yeah, I'm thinking of a theistic version of a
religion. But I'm like, okay, do I pick one as an internal conscious torment afterwards? Do I pick
one that doesn't? Which one gives me the best rewards if I'm right? At that point, it would
just come down to just, just pragmatic decisions upon like utility instead of actually whether
it's true or not. Man, that's such a good question. I don't even know if I can answer it.
Yeah, I'm sorry, I can't. They're all equally shitty to me.
If you have some interesting, we have some interesting comments. Carrie Shinto. Yeah,
I can see Shinto as a... I've heard of Shinto, yeah. Yeah. Jane is... Oh, the Norse, the Norse gods,
the Vikings. Yeah, I can get behind the Viking Norse mythology. Yeah.
So there are like that, you know, there is Ocean Keltoy. He's actually, he went from a Christian
to believing in the Norse gods and he went there via a Christian preacher from the
5th century or the 16th century. Some, some time in olden times,
he, you see how academic I am when I've had a few alcoholic beverages, but Ocean Keltoy,
yeah, he worships the Norse gods and super interesting. He's a, what's the word,
heathen, but like legit, not like, not saying like my neighbors are heathen. He's actually
a heathen. He's like, yes. It's not derogatory. It's actually descriptive, yeah. After watching,
after watching American gods and playing a lot of Valheim, I could totally do the,
I could totally do Norse mythology. I'm also, I'm also got Norwegian like ancestors, so that
my name is Eric after all. So yeah, I've got Gaelic ancestors, so maybe I should choose a Gaelic
god. Yeah. Hail Odin. I've converted. Hail Odin. We need to do, and I shouldn't say this on the
stream because it'll, but we did it to another, when you passed all the demons, we need to do
another stream where we talk about, well, we put gods versus each other. You can't just like,
and you can't just say like, oh, this God's all powerful. You have to remove like things like
that. You have to talk about like the stories of them. How long does it take them to create the
universe? How long, you know, and we can do like a, we can do like a God versus God, like who would
win in a battle, like Superman, Spider-Man, like, you know, kind of thing. And we can find out who's
the most powerful God. That could be a fun stream to do. Yeah, that sounds really good. Ray has
an interesting comment. Ray, is that Ishtar religion? Is that like on a cycle, like one night of
pure ecstasy and then a half year in hell for eternity and just repeats over and over for eternity?
Oh, man. That might be a decent trade.
Mabbed for David Lowell. Yeah, this is awesome. Only one way to fail. I thank you, everyone,
for coming out. Towerism is interesting. Cool, cool. I asked, I asked this of, of, of, of
Aaron Ra and he actually said Towerism, which was pretty interesting, because I didn't think
he would have an answer to that. I thought he would say something like, oh, they're all bullshit.
But he did. And so I actually, this is a good time to actually probably mention
that let me just quickly, before we go, I'll just show the fact that we do actually have
Aaron Ra coming to Deep Drink soon. Nice. So let me just, oh, no, I can't. Let me just
drop this. Yeah, for claiming the gospel of Jesus to Aaron Ra, I just love his face
in this graphic that I made. It's, yeah, it is what it is. It's awesome. And we have some
awesome guests coming up with a purity camp, a purity culture panel coming up with Apostasy,
who is in the chat. We also have the author of Beyond Belief coming up in 40 hours,
which we're going to be talking about Hillsonger's religion. She's been published on The Guardian.
She's been in documentaries. Hillsonger Mega Church Exposed. This is a stream you don't want to miss
40 hours. Make sure you like and subscribe to this channel so we can, we can, you can join
that conversation there. That would be really awesome. And then we have a Christian coming on,
talking about Pentecostal Christianity. So testify. I apologize. Yeah, so that'd be really good.
And, you know, of course, many other guests, but Eric, once again, thank you for coming on your
channel. Make sure you go check out Eric's channel. It's awesome. And I look forward to seeing everyone
soon. I'm going to leave us all with a trailer for the purity kind of purity. Oh my gosh, the
purity culture horror stories panel that drinks for effect to me. Thanks everyone for coming out.
Love you all. Goodbye. Bye, folks. Thanks.
