Derek Lambert and Noscan Formant are wrong. They want you to believe that their old preaching
videos are cringier than mine. Wrong. Derek even tricked his whole audience into voting
in favour of him. This cannot go on. I obviously took the cake for the most cringiest preacher.
And here I lay out the evidence before you. Please watch this. See the cringe and then compare it
to Derek and Neil's former preaching over on MythVision's channel. Nothing reaches levels of
cringe much like watching old preaching videos now that you're an agnostic atheist.
I hope you guys enjoy the pain that I put myself through and hit that subscribe button
if you haven't already. Is this you David right here? Yeah and let me let me skip to the part
that's relevant. Look at my fashion. Holy crap bro you. Yeah I had the ball change.
Having a good time. Okay so this is my first preach. I really screwed up this. This is my
first preach in the church when I was announced to be taking over as youth pastor and I did a
really bad job. With my youth pastor I did a really bad job but this is the best cringiest
part of the whole clip and I hope if I don't win with this it's only because Derek has
home filled advantage and everyone loves Neil. Okay let's go. It says at verse 11
what happened is they ate the tree. Everyone knows the story. They ate the tree from the tree
of deceit. The tree of good and evil. They figured out what good and evil were and then
realized they were naked and stuff. Anyway at verse 11 it picks up and he says and he said who told
you and it's in verse sorry not verse 10. How good. The man of his wife heard the sound of the
Lord God as he was walking in the garden in the cool of the day and they hid from the Lord.
Go out among the trees of the garden. For the Lord God called to the man where are you. He answered
I heard you in the garden and I was afraid because I was naked so I hid and the God said
who told you you were naked. Now probably heard me say this before but for those who haven't
it's like who told you were naked. Who told you're naked. You just look at that you can just brush
right past that verse and think it's nothing. But you can look at that verse and you see what
happens is what happens when you're down and when you're feeling depressed and when you're feeling
lower than the floor and you've got a storm going through your life a personal storm where you think
everything's you can everything's just going absolutely insane around your life and what happens
is the devil will come along and you'll lie to you and the devil will come along and you'll say
you're pathetic. The devil will come along and say that you can't do this. You can't do that.
You'll never you'll never amount to anything. You're always going to be that person from a
dysfunctional family. You're always going to be that person who who slept around. You're always
going to be that person who took drugs. You never tell us what you really did and you come in and
you can weed in and get these thoughts and start to play in our mind. You wonder why so many people
so many people walk away from God and have such an encounter with God and they walk away from God
because the devil brings this fog around their lives and clogs what God is really saying. Amen.
God's sitting there saying who told you you were pathetic. Who told you you were naked. Who told
you you were like that. I don't know that's right. But who brought you down. Who brought you down.
You've changed you see the great thing about my God and our God in this room is that he's
always shifting. Amen. Amen. Yeah that's good. Oh my gosh. Yeah you were on fire for the Lord.
Yeah David I didn't know you had it in you man. That was like a mix between both the bars was like
yeah I think I vote for you now. Yeah you got it so the vote is in the chat right.
Joshua Owen says thank you for your work. Thank you, Joshua.
See the Christians in the chat are feeling you right now.
Dude, you're getting it done. So make your votes happen now, okay? Like, literally, I want to,
I need to give a plug of you guys real quick here and tell some people what we've got going on.
MIDI is saying shifting. The place, the church service was like, what's called shift.
And we used to have this, like, intro called shift TV. All right, nice. Shift TV. Yeah, anyway.
All right, we're going to get this vote. We're going to end the poll. Are you ready for this?
Are you sure you're ready for this? Guys? Oh, yeah. Well, yeah, I, yeah, let's do this.
Okay, there's 281 votes. Damn, that's a lot of votes, dude. Holy shit. I know. Here we go.
Should pop up here. Oh, I don't see it. That is, that is, that's bullshit.
It's that's bullshit. That's actual bullshit. There's no way. Are you kidding? Did you guys see
my preachers? I agree. I think that you have some stuff there. Where is it? I don't see it.
It's in the chat. It's in the chat. So go to YouTube because it's not showing up on a stream yard.
Oh, Derek wins with 56%. Yeah. I see it. I think you guys are right. I think you guys are right.
I really did not want people. Dude, you heard me, David. I really said it would not hurt my
feelings at all. In fact, I'd have been happy to see someone else. I mean, this is like,
recount, recount. I'm the true. Let me, let me give you a funny selection. Oh, yeah, right. It is
obviously fake. There's a funny story to this. When I first got clean off a heroin, me and my
wife, we used to argue every day in active addiction. Like when I was actively using,
I would start a fight with her serious note, but this ends up being a funny story where I'm about
18 days off a heroin and we haven't had one argument, 18 days, the most amazing relationship
in the world for 18 days. It was heaven. And I had a dream that night that I used in my dream.
And it was the most terrifying. I woke up crying, literally had tears in my eyes. Like I just,
you can't change that your dream in your dream. But I was so thankful when I woke up that I wasn't.
I have those from time to time, even today, seven years later. But I woke up and I was telling my
wife how afraid I was to die, that I knew that I'm going to die if I use. If I get back on heroin,
I don't know if I'm going to make it out. I told her. And I was scared. And then she,
just in conversation, but I took it wrong, went, yeah, I'm afraid of dying too. And I was like,
excuse me, like, no, you're not. I am so messed up that I am going to die from heroin addiction.
So we argued for the first time in 18 day, 18 days, we had this horrible argument, just,
I don't want to talk to you, you know, but we're driving together to get food and I'm not wanting
to speak to her, you know, the music's soft and it kind of makes you want to soften her,
but I'm not, I'm not doing it. So we get home. I go outside in the backyard, a little bonfire at
my yard. I'm just sitting there so pissed. I can't believe that she thinks that she's afraid to die
when I'm literally the one getting off heroin, right? Like that's my, how excited and emotional I
was. She walks out with a cup of coffee. She walks out all the way to me with a smile. And I'm like,
you made that for me, honey. And she's like, yeah, and I thought about it. And she said,
you're way more fucked up than I am. And I went, I walked right into it.
Thanks for watching, guys. Make sure you check out the Patreon if you feel like supporting
this channel and subscribe if you haven't already. See you next time.
