What if there's like new, new atheism and these atheists don't believe in God,
but they are far more fulfilled than any other religion?
Would you consider it becoming an atheist?
I mean, so similarly, these other religions could be giving
not totally true ontological claims, but it's these people benefit
from understanding in this way.
My experiences do this. Justify the my there.
How do you justify the my?
Not sure if I understand the question.
Nor do I.
Welcome everyone to the Deep Drinks podcast.
Today we have the awesome Arjuna from Theology Unleashed,
which is a YouTube channel that tries to bridge the gap between
East and West philosophy.
Arjuna is a Hare Krishna.
And today we're going to be learning a little bit about Hinduism.
Hare Krishna ism.
Or how do I say it?
The word Hare Krishna doesn't really have that many word forms.
So if you want to say it and ism, you got to say Vaishnavism
or Chitanya Vaishnavism or something.
Vaishnavism. OK, I'm about to pronunciation,
but we're going to be learning a little bit about that and a bit about
Arjuna's journey and then we'll end with a Q&A.
So yeah, welcome Arjuna.
Yeah, great to be here.
And what are we drinking today?
So all the guests choose their own drink.
And Arjuna, what have you chosen?
Yeah, some cola kombucha.
Yeah, so as Hare Krishna's we don't drink any alcohol or coffee.
So this drink is quite popular among devotees at the moment
because it's healthy and it tastes good.
And my family is quite healthy too.
There's another one that's quite popular among Hare Krishna's
is ginger beer, Bundaberg.
But it's full of sugar.
I can't drink that stuff.
And this stuff, it's fermented so the sugar is broken down.
It's got sugar alcohols.
It's not alcoholic though.
Yeah, yeah, cool.
Yeah, and you wouldn't do that.
Maybe this is the healthiest beverage you've had on your show yet.
Probably.
I think the only non-alcoholic one we had was Dr Pepper.
Anyway, I'll try some of this delicious beverage.
It's probiotic.
Yeah, is it actually probiotic still?
Yeah, it has some probiotic qualities.
Yeah, cool.
That's all the rage at the moment, like gut health and stuff like that.
Oh yeah, that's good.
Yeah, I like that.
So before I've tried to, in preparation for this interview,
I listened to just the text,
not the commentary of Bhagavad Gita as it is,
which of course is the Hare Krishna text,
or the text you told me to read this one.
Yeah.
And obviously, I just skimmed it, listened to it,
listened to it on an audio version.
And I also listened to a short introduction to Hinduism.
And I feel like I'm worse off than what I was when I began with.
So I thought maybe you could give,
and I thought a really good place to start would be if you gave
just an overview of the differences between West thought
and Eastern thought.
Because I remember having a beer with a Christian friend of mine once,
and I was bringing some issues up with what I saw with Christianity,
and he was saying, oh well, you're assuming everything from Greek thought,
from logic and things like that.
And I was like, and I never thought about my presupposition
of how the West and Western way of thinking has kind of persuaded me
to go a certain, look at things a certain way.
So I would be really interested to hear what the difference is.
Who are you speaking to that said that?
One of my Christian friends.
It was years ago, yeah.
Right, because Christianity is heavily influenced by Greek philosophy.
Yeah.
To be honest, I don't think this person was well-versed.
I think he was just trying to find an out to some of my questions.
Yeah, it's a fair point.
It's interesting coming from Christians,
saying that about Greek philosophy.
Actually, now think about that.
Yeah, because the New Testament was written in Greek,
so I don't know what he was even talking about.
I mean, I've pressed Christians on that before,
because it's like in the Eastern traditions,
and with the Vedas, we have a complete revelation.
It's basically that you've got two separate traditions
that have created entire world religions that have become popular.
There's the East and there's the Middle East,
like the Abrahamic traditions, and then India,
and they're fully independent.
But the difference with Christianity is,
you know, Jesus gave a little bit,
and then the early church fathers borrowed a lot from the Greeks.
I pressed Christians on that before and said,
oh, we've got a more full, more complete revelation.
And they said, oh, God planned it in such a way
that he planted this stuff there from the Greeks
in order for us to take advantage with it.
That's how they respond to that thing.
So that off topic, but there's just, I thought of it, so I said it.
So Crash Course and Hinduism,
and how it differs from the West.
So one thing I've found interesting for a long time
and finally have an answer I'm satisfied with is,
why in India do they never talk about the problem of evil?
So the debates have been about all sorts of things,
and there's some debates that crossover,
like the debate over classical theism versus neoclassical theism,
or whatever the competing views of God are,
seem to be somewhat similar to the debates of Advaita Vedanta
versus Vashishti Advaita, or a bit of a tougher.
So the dualism versus the non-dualism.
Is that consciousness, right?
Like consciousness model?
It's framed a little differently in the East.
So, yeah, in the West, it's comes,
goes back to Descartes and it's consciousness versus matter,
God versus matter.
Whereas in Eastern traditions,
they talk about, I heard someone saying it,
I listen to these talkers that have real clarity on it,
and then I don't write it down or speak on it myself so much,
so I forget, but it's something like the,
someone was saying that there's,
I can point to Ashish Jalaila,
I'm actually going to have him on my channel soon.
He's a Hare Krishna who's written extensively
in the study Western philosophy affair,
but maybe you can interview him next.
And he was saying that the Eastern one, they get it in reverse.
So, I can't remember how that works.
So that they talk about Maya,
so the material world as an illusion.
And the real thing is that this is the advice about is a,
that there is, the ultimate reality has no quality.
So that's the non-dualism, everything's one.
And the reason why we get this,
think that there's a variety of things in the world is because
of an illusion, it's just a false perception of reality.
But really there's just oneness and undifferentiatedness.
So that creates the problem of how do you get this illusion?
If there's enough, if reality is undifferentiated,
and where do all these qualities come from?
And then, and whereas the Vaishnavas who's,
who claim that the ultimate reality is personal,
they would say the ultimate reality is full of qualities.
And that's how we have qualities in this world.
But the reason why things in this world are,
because in the Western traditions,
they didn't want to go that route because if you,
if you want to say the material world is connected to God in this way,
then how is it connected to God when it's profane and God is totally pure?
And the Eastern traditions also want to keep that distance of God being pure,
despite the world having impurities.
By the way, they do that as one analogy used is to the sun.
So the sun can create a reflection on the pond.
And you can destroy the reflection on the pond,
but you can't destroy the sun.
And so in this way, God can reach into the world and be present in the world,
but not be affected by the world.
These are the sort of debates that went on.
So it's somewhat similar to the debates you get between
with classical theism and neoclassical theism and somewhat where they're debating as God,
because the classical theism ideas, you know, God's impassable.
He's got his untouched.
He doesn't react to us at all.
He doesn't interact with the world.
And that's trying to preserve God being pure and not interacting with this profane world.
But you run into problems because anyway, that's another debate.
But it seems to be quite similar to this in person as a debate,
but you never got the problem of evil because there was this implicit idea of cyclical creations,
long time spans, reincarnation, having lived before,
and us being held accountable for our past actions.
So we don't have a problem of evil because there's just this implicit personal responsibility.
Interesting.
So how about that?
Yeah, right.
So when someone does something that's evil or something evil happens to someone,
like let's say there's a landslide and it kills a bunch of like innocent babies and an orphanage
who are crying with their little puppies and kittens.
What would the Eastern perspective be on that?
Because I know a lot of people in the West would say,
the Western perspective might say, why would God let this happen?
Is this the devil's work or something like that?
Or maybe this is judgment for sin.
What's the Eastern perspective on that?
Broadly.
Yeah.
So the way our Vaishnava would deal with that is one to say that this world isn't meant for enjoyment.
The purpose of this world is to rectify our rebellious mentality,
purify us and develop our love of God.
And there's an analogy.
The founder of the Hare Krishna movement in the West,
he wrote the book, the Bhagavad Gita, which you just held up.
He wrote the commentary and translation.
He gives us an analogy that there's first class intelligence,
second class intelligence, third class intelligence and 10th class intelligence.
And most people are not that intelligent.
So first class intelligence, you tell them once,
don't put your hand in the fire, you'll get burnt.
The child hears this, listens and never gets burnt.
Second class intelligence, they hear,
they watch another child get burnt and they never get burnt themselves.
Third class intelligence, they hear, they see somebody else do it,
they do it themselves, they get burnt and then they never do it again.
And 10th class intelligence repeatedly gets burnt and still does it again.
Okay.
So like someone who's maybe like a drug addict or something,
maybe someone you classify as 10th intelligence, right?
Yeah.
So even someone who's an intelligent,
given enough time, they'll eventually learn.
And this comes back to this whole being ultimately good
and oriented towards the good.
So sooner or later, it's kind of like how you could,
an analogy I like to use is drills, right?
Like if you're just like a home DIY guy,
you might go to the store and buy the cheapest drill.
You might use it a couple of times and just tolerate how bad it is to use.
But if you get your drill out and use it much,
you're going to get sick of it.
And you're going to go to the store and buy a quality drill.
And among people who are tradesmen that use their drill every day,
you won't find a single person who has the cheapest drill at the shop.
And nobody's forcing them to do that.
It's just objectively a better choice.
So similarly, sooner or later,
we're all going to make the better choice and turn to God.
So coming back to the natural disaster thing.
So people have a mentality that they've carried with them from a past life.
That mentality led them to do certain actions in their past life
and those actions bring certain reactions.
They still have that mentality and the reactions that that mentality earns them.
Are the exact thing that are needed to rectify that mentality?
So I don't know.
I should probably quickly respond to some objections because I know the objections
that typically come up here, which is, you know,
you could use this kind of philosophy to say,
oh, so if a child is starving, that's their karma.
That's what they need to experience to learn to grow.
So that means if I feed that child, I'm interrupting their karma.
But this is crossing the philosophy because there's ways of applying the,
there's certain philosophical things,
which are for understanding my own situation, how I look at myself
and the situation I'm in.
And there's other philosophical points of how I look at other people.
So right now what we're doing is philosophy,
where we just sit back and look at the reasons for things.
But what you do when there's a starving child in front of you
is not the same thing you do when you're trying to explain why a child is in that situation.
And that comes down to karma.
It's kind of like an resort gap.
Well, an analogy I've often used for it is like,
and there's a big focus on guru and eastern traditions
and like an unbroken guru-disciple relationship,
the guru is the representative of God and you get instruction from them.
It's important not to see the guru as an ordinary person.
And this way you can get the teachings correctly.
But if the guru sees himself as connected to God
in the same way the disciple is supposed to see, then the guru is fallen.
The guru is supposed to see himself as a servant.
So there's a certain way the disciple is supposed to look at the guru
and there's a completely different way that the guru is supposed to look at himself.
Okay.
That's that kind of thing.
So if something bad happens to me, how I look at my situation
is very different from how that bad thing happens to somebody else who I'm able to help.
Because then dharma comes in and dharma, one way it can be translated as duties.
So if I can relieve someone else's suffering, I have a duty to do that.
And if it's their karma to not have their suffering alleviated,
then I won't be able to alleviate their suffering no matter how much I try.
I mean, there are some caveats to that.
You don't do over endeavour.
So like...
In this version of the Gita, which is the first one I read, have you read this version?
No.
Do you know much about Christianity?
A little bit.
Have you, do you know what the message translation of the Bible is?
No.
It's like, it's not even considered a translation.
And I described this as, it's not, it probably is a good translation,
but it's just so easy to read, like in regards to like, it's probably less faithful.
But when I read it, I really understood.
And one of the things, one of the parts of the commentary that it said was the dharma,
and I wanted to see if you agree with this with your understanding is,
the dharma of a scorpion is to sting.
Yeah, that's, it's like, that's like, it's, it's a...
It's not, it's not like a bad thing for the scorpion to do.
That's what it's there to do, to sting, right?
Yeah, yeah.
So that applies to animals.
So like a tiger is going to eat other.
If a tiger eats a deer, it's not creating karma for itself.
Animals don't earn karma.
Humans earn karma because we're capable of deliberating on our actions and making decisions.
Animals are just acting on natural instincts.
Do you accept the theory of evolution by natural selection that we've,
we came from descendant animals, like that we are animals, essentially?
No?
No, I don't think there's good scientific evidence for it.
And I don't think it's consistent with Bhagavatam.
Okay, cool.
I'm not going to like start like doing that or anything, but I was just interested because obviously,
obviously what you said there is like, from some perspective,
from the scientific perspective, we are, you know, we're mammals or animals or whatever.
Well, maybe we could jump on to what is Hinduism because like obviously,
like Hinduism is old, right?
And there is some, is there some contention around the dates of when Hinduism started?
And what's your understanding when it started and what, how it started and what is Hinduism?
So a lot of that academic or what passes as academic or scholarly work relating to dates for Hinduism
and then the academic world is really sketchy.
And the reason why there's such bad scholarship around it is because the first people to do endology
were people like Max Muller and who were sent there and hired specifically
to go there and try to demoralize the Indian population as part of the colonization of India.
So people were studying the Indian traditions, getting paid big bucks to demoralize Indians
and show how Indian culture is inferior and Western culture is superior.
So it would make everything as recent as possible.
For example, Max Muller came up with a date that's like, I think 800 years ago for Bhagavad Gita.
And he did this by, or maybe for, I think for Bhagavad Gita, he said 800 years ago.
And he did this by looking at the text because Bhagavad Gita is a spoken book.
So it was, it's an oral history was told as a story and eventually it was written down.
So that means it's in a very modern Sanskrit dialect.
It doesn't mean the stories are all recent.
It just means that the Sanskrit, which it was written down in was a more modern style.
And he took this and said, okay, here's the modern dialect of Sanskrit.
And here's the dialect of Sanskrit.
It's in the most, you can change dialects.
The fastest that can happen is every 200 years.
So let's say it happened as fast as possible.
And also there's a personality with this name mentioned.
And here in history, there's a personality with the same name, must be the same person.
And that's how we got his dates.
And other scholars looked at it and thought, yeah, I don't think that's right.
And then the next generation of scholars just totally accepted it.
So that's just throwing some shade on what academics have to say about it.
So if you want to disagree with that in an academic realm, you've got your work cut out for you, unfortunately.
But as for, you know, if we're going to take the tradition a lot more seriously, what it says about itself,
the tradition is as old as the world is just that Prabhupada gave an analogy to an owner's manual.
So he had a microphone in front of him.
He said, just like when you buy a microphone, there's an owner's manual.
Along with the universe comes an owner's manual and it's Bhagavad Gita.
That tells us the purpose of the world and how to get out of here.
So if you study the history of India, there's strong evidence that the Vaishnava traditions go right back.
And then of course, Shaivism is pretty old too.
But Shaivism is a relative of Vaishnavism that existed alongside one another.
And then it was only with the advent of Shankaracharya that you had and personalism take prominence.
So yeah, Bhagavad Gita was 5,000 years ago.
Bhagavad Thams, 5,000 years ago.
And there's Astro, what is that Astro?
Some of the astrological descriptions that are given in Bhagavad Gita line up with astrological alignments that occurred 5,000 years ago.
Plus, it's what the text claims.
And there's some archaeology that you could say matches that too.
So would you say it's like, so the Bhagavad Gita, you know, those texts are like a manual, like with a microphone.
So would you say that they, so would you say the earth is somewhere around 5,000, 6,000 years old?
Or would you do you have?
So Krishna spoke Bhagavad Gita to Arjuna 5,000 years ago.
When he spoke Bhagavad Gita to Arjuna, he said, I appear whenever these teachings become degraded.
They've become degraded now.
I appeared many years ago to and spoke these teachings to the sun god, which would be in the hundreds of thousands of years ago.
And then we've got Ramayana, which we believed happened over a billion years ago.
So that look at the, I think it's over a billion, the.
I've got a video on my channel.
There's a devotee wrote a book and that's there's some scientific accuracies contained in the Vedic literature and the piranhas that say the earth is roughly four billion years old.
And the age of the universe matches to.
And he's also found descriptions of extinction events, at least one extinction event or maybe a couple that line up with what we found in the archaeological record.
So there's some scientific accurate there.
I think it's the only tradition that has the time scales that line up with modern astronomy.
Would you.
So the Vedas, when you say the Vedas, you talk about like the Rig Veda and what are like the specific ones that.
Yeah, so the Vedas are described as existing eternally.
They always existed always will and their exact state.
So we might not, we might have, there might be interpolations or corruptions in the text that we have now.
But that's just as they've appeared to us, but the texts themselves always exist.
And like some of those, those original four Vedas there, they have to be verbatim.
We're bug of a time you can put it into modern language and that's fine.
But it's got to be the exact phrasing of syllable for those other ones.
And then like bug of a time it appears every creation cycle, but it's stories.
So there may be some variations in the stories or it may be that I think bug of a time would have variation.
Other as the Vedas, there's personalities to experience that appear and it's named after them.
But there's probably a different personality in the next year, the next time round was the same name as a different person.
And they also have the same text revealed to them.
So, okay, so I'm going to throw some like common, you know, you know, ideas that I hear from like my buddies or whatever, or randoms on TV or something,
where they'll say that India has millions of gods or Hinduism has millions of gods.
And I've heard someone else say that that's almost like a grade two understanding of like what Hinduism is.
So how, if someone's come up to you and said Hinduism has millions of gods, and how would you answer someone that says that?
Does Hinduism have millions of gods or is it just what is it?
So there's 33 million demigods.
There's a funny story and somewhere in the Mahabharat where somebody decided they wanted to find a demigod who no one was worshiping.
And they did it so that they could be, you know, really pleased that one demigod.
They didn't understand what a demigod is.
So the phrase demigod is an English translation.
Prior Pad gave for the Sanskrit word, Sura.
I think there's another Sanskrit for them.
So there's like Indra, he's the chief of the demigods.
Brahma is the creator of this particular universe, this particular, I think it's actually more maps onto our solar system rather than universe.
There's many Brahmas over seeing various different creations.
So Brahma is like an engineer overseeing creation.
So God doesn't really do the work himself.
He will that to happen and it happens and he puts other people in charge of it.
So the demigods are like engineers overseeing the material universe there.
And they live in the heavenly planets, which is part of the material universe where there's more enjoyment, less suffering.
They live longer lives and they probably map on to the Christian idea of angels or the Muslim idea.
There's something in Islam that maps on to it too.
I think they use the word L.
I think the word L means like archangel or angel or something.
And I'm not a scholar on that myself, so I'll mark it a lot.
But there's other devotees who've done a bit of work on this.
I could link to a video.
So who's Brahman, Krishna, Shiva?
I've got a Shiva statue actually back there.
I picked up in Bali.
I thought it looked amazing.
Who are they in relation to Hinduism and then does that differ from a Hare Krishna?
So you do get what's called Neo Vedanta, which was this invention of Vivekananda and the Ramakrishna mission.
And it doesn't accurately represent any of the former traditions.
They wanted to compete with Christianity and so they wanted to make India have one religion.
And they chose in personalism of the Advaita Vedanta view to be the umbrella.
And then they just tried to shoehorn everything into the end.
So you can worship Krishna, you can worship Kali, you can worship Ganesh, Shiva, whoever you like.
They're just something for you to fix your mind on until you're advanced enough to fix your mind on the impersonal absolute beyond these deities.
And that's like any Hare Krishna or Vaishnava is completely offended by that idea.
Because you're taking things which aren't God and saying, oh, you get the same result by focusing on this thing than on that thing.
Whereas for the Vaishnava, there's Vishnu Tattva.
The word Tattva may be translated as ontology, ontological category.
So Vishnu Tattva is God category and God is a single person.
But he expresses a diversity of personalities and a diversity of forms.
So one way I explain this is I can do what I can do across time.
God can do simultaneously.
So just as the court judge, they express a different personality when they're working as a judge.
As when they're home, there's a famous example where I think it was the Prime Minister of England at the time.
Someone was waiting in his office for a while, couple of hours or something.
And finally, they looked through the keyhole and they saw that the Prime Minister was in there with the sun climbing on his back, being ridden around like a horsey.
So this is a different aspect of the personality of the Prime Minister to what's normally seen.
But it's the same person.
But when God expresses a different personality, he can do it with a different form.
So I can take a different form across multiple lifetimes.
I can take a birth in a different form of God, can do it simultaneously.
And he's got a lot of personality expressed.
So he's got a diversity of forms to fully express those.
And extra gauge and loving relationships with his devotees and those forms.
So that includes Lord Ram, Balaram, Krishna.
And then you have Shakti Tattva, which the original one is Radharani.
So there's a divine consort as well.
Then you have Shiva would be the next category.
Shiva is another ontological category, the Shiva Tattva.
Shiva is God when he contacts the material energy.
So Vishnu never contacts material energy.
God never contacts material energy.
But when he does, he's Shiva.
An analogy given by Narada Muni is to milk and curd or milk and yogurt.
So you can take milk and make yogurt.
So in a way, yogurt is milk, but it's also not milk.
You can't take yogurt and make milk.
So one creates the other, but the other can't create the one.
So Krishna is the original, Vishnu is the original.
And from there you get Shiva.
And then there's Neishu as a son of...
So the first, the one like the Shakti Tattva, Vishnu Tattva and Shiva Tattva,
they're permanent posts.
You can't become Shiva.
You can't become Radharani and so on.
Whereas the other ones are Jiva Tattva.
So Ganesh, I believe, is Jiva Tattva.
He took birth as Shiva's son.
And this yoga and another yoga might be someone else.
And at least I think that's true of Ganesh.
But I know it's true of Brahma.
Brahma is a post.
So usually it's filled by a purer devotee.
But if there's no one qualified, then Krishna will do it himself.
And then Indra, Vayu, Agni, all these other demigods, they're posts.
So a living entity like you and me who's pious enough and earns some pious credits
could take birth in the heavily planets as one of these demigods.
However, that's not considered desirable because there the material sense enjoyment
is so much that it's a distraction and it's hard to make progress in love of God.
That's better to be in the middle earth planet like where we are now.
It's the middle planet.
There's the right amount of suffering and enjoyment so that we can be peaceful
and focus on God, but we can also have that fire on our butts reminding us
that this place actually isn't our home.
And we can get out of here and develop our pure love of God.
So this is why I love about learning about this is because I understood
about 10% of what you were just talking about.
And I can re-listen to it and you're trying to pick up new things each time
because there is such a huge world of stuff I do not understand
that is coming out of India and Hinduism and these other Eastern religions.
It's mind boggling.
I was a youth pastor for a Christian church and I didn't know any of this stuff.
This is all just like, okay.
It's also interesting what you said about how Krishna can be different things over time,
which is really cool.
There's kind of a concept that I've heard that and I hope this isn't offensive,
but they say, you know, I've heard that a lot of people try to explain away the Trinity
and they'll say, well, God can be a father and he can be a son.
And you know, I'm this like, so for example, when I have a kid, I'll be a father
and I'm the son of my dad and, you know, I love it to my wife and like they,
and that's how they try to explain that God is both father, son and spirit at the same time.
They're all separate, 100% separate and 100% together.
Is that almost somehow similar in a way to what you're talking about?
I hope that's not offensive.
But yeah, I haven't gotten to Trinity discussions.
There's actually a Christian who I need.
I'm going to have on my channel eventually.
And he's done some work on the Trinity.
He wrote a quite entertaining book on it.
And so yeah, I'm not familiar with the debate, so I'm not sure I can say how much it compares.
But yeah, so the Christians want to say this God is three persons, but one God.
And I might have some of the same objections that Muslims have to that.
We want to say there's one person, multiple personalities and multiple forms, one God.
From what I've understood, like watching a few of your videos is you seem,
you seem to object to a lot of, like, you seem to attack the Christians, not attack in a bad way,
but you seem to point out problems with the Christian ideas of things the same way like an atheist might do.
So it's interesting, but you do it on a completely different, like an atheist will go,
BS, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, for whatever reason, but you've got a completely different perspective.
And I even heard you say something like, and this is something I always hear in church all the time,
that Christianity is the only religion that has grace, where God came down and sacrificed himself for humanity.
And I saw in one of your other videos where you said, that's like crap, or like not that specifically.
Like along the lines like, no, there are many other religions that aren't works based.
Maybe you can touch on that quickly.
I think, well, I'd be surprised if there's, yeah, maybe some traditions,
but I think most major traditions have had the grace works debate.
They've just done it in their own language.
Like we have this term, what is it?
There's a sadhana siddha and there's a creeper siddha.
So siddha means perfection.
Like sadhya is a goal.
Sadhana is the work you do to get a goal.
Siddha is perfection.
Maybe those words are all related.
I'm not a Sanskrit buff.
So creeper means mercy.
So it means you attain perfection just through mercy, where sadhana siddha means you earned it through work.
So we've even got the terminology.
Dr. Howard Resnick, who he's pretty up there, pretty good at philosophy.
I quite like his explanations.
He actually wrote a translation of Bhagavad Gita where he tried to give a really literal interpretation of the text based on the Sanskrit.
He's a Sanskrit scholar.
And he makes this point that God needs to be just like a fair.
They can't believe any like, I'm going to give this person the mercy just because and this person's not going to get it.
If somebody gets the mercy, there should be something about that person.
That's why they're getting it compared to another person.
Otherwise, it's just caprice on the part of God that some people are getting and other people aren't.
We want to have this idea that God's fair and he's reciprocating.
Krishna says in Bhagavad Gita, as someone approaches me, I reciprocate accordingly.
So there's this idea of mercy that God's the one saving us.
Krishna says in Bhagavad Gita, to those who are dedicated to serving me with love, I carry what they lack and I preserve what they have.
So if we've got shortcomings, God's going to make up for it.
And if we've got any merits, God's going to preserve those.
And in Bhagavad Gita, Krishna says that he's the one who cleans the heart.
It's said of Krishna that he cleans the heart.
To one who's developed the urge to hear his messages, he personally cleans the heart.
So we can't clean the dirt out of our hearts.
God has to do it.
God's the janitor of the heart, so to speak.
But we need to place ourselves in such a way that we receive that mercy.
I guess Christians probably talk about the vessels being upside down or being full of holes or one vessel not having holes and being up.
And that's the one that actually gets the mercy and is able to retain it.
But it's also like, I think it's just a flawed argument anyway, because it's like, who cares if...
Let's say Krishna is the only one that has grace or something around, who cares?
Like, I could say the same thing about another religion.
Your religions, they still eat meat, where the true religion is vegetarians.
Religious is the only religion that actually gives you a scientific process how to elevate your consciousness and develop your love of God.
Other religions tell you this is the goal, but they don't actually give you the details how to do it.
Like, imagine if you go to a gym, you're like, oh, all the other gyms, they're workspace, but we're just going to give you these hormones and give you this muscle powder.
You're not actually going to have to do any work.
It's like, I mean, tying the analogy back.
I don't know if the analogy really carries so much, but yeah, I had this discussion with the Christian the other day on my channel.
I think it was with Joshua Faris.
And I was saying, if you go too far with mercy, you run into problems because then it's like Calvinism.
Like I was saying, Caprice on the part of God, there's got to be something we do.
But also, I mean, if love of God is something valuable, it only makes sense that there's things we'd need to do in order to...
Like, when you care about something, God wants to see our dedication.
Like, Krishna and Bhagavad Gita says the word dedication.
There's a lot of wording in there that shows that there needs to be some commitment on our part.
We need to actually care about it, needs to mean something to us.
But to say that we are committed or that we really care about something is completely vacuous unless we're actually doing something about it.
So obviously, our effort is not enough.
It's not something we can do on our own strength.
But if we're not doing our bit, then why would God pick up the slack?
And is that something He could even do?
Like, there's the parable of the pedestrian, which is...
It's used to make an argument against...
I've heard it in the context of historic racism in America that...
So the parable goes that someone gets run over by a car.
Let's say Bill Gates run them over so there's no shortage of money to pay for fixing the person's back.
But they go to the doctors and the doctors say, there's actually no way we can fix this.
The only way to fix it is for you to do hours every day of intensive physiotherapy.
You're going to have to do the work and the person can say, but it's not fair.
I didn't earn this.
It's like, maybe it's not fair, but this is the only way you're going to fix the problem.
Interesting.
Yeah.
Okay.
And so this is really interesting.
So I just want to touch on how before we jump into your journey and your story,
I want to touch on how the Hare Krishnas or...
Vaishnava.
Vaishnava.
Vaishnavism.
Okay.
How does that differ from traditional Hinduism?
I would say it is the essence of whatever you mean by Hinduism.
I mean, first of all, the word Hinduism doesn't really mean anything.
I'd say it's the essence of the Vedas.
Like the word Vedanta means the end of all knowledge.
So that's a way of claiming the essence of the Vedas.
And then Bhagavatam is the commentary on the Vedanta sutra.
The Vedanta sutra is the essence of the Vedas.
It was compiled by Veda Vyas.
Veda Vyas then wrote Bhagavatam and that was his commentary on the Vedanta sutra.
So it's the essence of the Vedas written by the author.
So anyway, that's kind of like internal arguing our position kind of thing.
Which was done extensively within the tradition arguing that, you know,
we're giving the real understanding of the Vedas.
But this word Hinduism, it's a geographical term.
It was used to refer to the people who lived on the other side of the Sindhu river.
It got mispronounced by one group and mispronounced by the next group,
which made it into the word Hindu.
It was used initially by Indians to refer to themselves only when speaking to the...
I guess it was the Muslims on the other side.
And eventually they just started using it themselves.
And then it really took over with the colonization and Vivekananda and Ramakrishna
trying to unite Indians and say we have one religion.
But the word Hinduism to refer to one tradition,
one religion is kind of like using the word...
Sorry, that was just a...
...Brahamic.
Yes, all that, your lights.
It's kind of like talking about the Abrahamic religions as if they're one thing
or talking about South American religions or North American religions
as if they're just one thing.
The North American religion teaches this.
It's like, what do you mean? Which tribe?
Yeah, okay.
Okay, interesting.
But as far as the Vedas go, so I think historically there's a real case to be made.
Dr. Howard Resnick has given a lecture series at I think Gainesville University.
You can find it on the web on the history of religions in India.
And he makes a compelling case that Vaishnavism was the prominent thread all the way through
other than a few points in history when impersonalism was more popular.
So yeah, I would say Hinduism is a modern degradation of the original Vedic tradition
which was primarily Vaishnavism and Vaishnavism was the essence of it.
But of course that's going to be debated within the religions
and Hindus who have different views are going to disagree with me.
Okay, one thing I did find very interesting too was when I was looking into everything
I discovered that like most religions hate gay people, like hate gay people
but I found that you guys don't. Is that right?
You have a unique perspective to members of the LGBT community, right?
There's no mention of gays and the Vedas that I'm aware of.
There is actually some mention that someone wrote a book about it.
I think it was called Trichya Prakriti.
So the word Trichya Prakriti, you might translate it as sexually atypical.
Which I think is a nice word because I heard one conservative YouTuber talking about the alphabet people
and they keep adding letters and it takes all the elegance away from language.
When they study animals to see if they're speaking in a language
they figure out that one way you can tell something's a language
is the sounds that are repeated often are shorter.
Like doctors use words often and they'll just call something PTSD
or they come up with all these acronyms because they use it or not so it becomes shortened
and then the left comes along and they want to lengthen everything
but I guess that's the side point.
Back on topic.
Yeah, there's condemnations of excessive sexual activity.
So there's a lot of Hare Christians who look at that and say,
okay, well, based on what we're hearing in Bhagavad Gita and Bhagavatam
a hetero couple or a gay couple enjoying is basically the same thing
unless it's meant for the procreation of children.
So basically sexual activity is meant for the procreation of children
and anything else is equally distracting us from God.
And the reason why it's bad isn't because it's like there's something really sinful
about enjoying in that way.
The reason it's bad is because it degrades our consciousness
and distracts us from developing our pure love of God.
It's kind of like taking drugs or something.
It's not like taking drugs is inherently sinful.
It's just, well, I guess you could say you're owning some karma
but the real problem is that it's preventing you from developing pure love of God
and that's why we take issue with it.
So at least it's consistent down the board.
Yeah, it resonates with me a lot better.
But there's another principle which is somehow rather fix your mind on Krishna.
This was stated by I think Rupa Goswami or perhaps Shiva Goswami
who's one of our prominent Acharyas, kind of like a church father kind of thing.
So the goal of human life is develop pure love of God
and we can't perform on the highest level immediately.
We need to go through.
So there's Niyam Agraha and Niyam Agraha.
And when you put the two words together it's pronounced the same way
no matter which one you're saying because of Sanskrit alliteration rules
or whatever the term is.
So what it means is holding onto the rules and regulations too much
or being too loose about the rules and regulations.
So if it's a long A before the Graha it's holding on too much
and if it's a short A before the Graha it's being too loose about it.
Oh, no, I think the A Graha is holding on and Agraha is being loose
but the Niyam has an A on the end.
So when you put them together you get an A either way.
So my poor Sanskrit commentary.
But you get the idea.
When you're at a certain level of advancement there's a certain way
you'll hold yourself up to the higher standard
and then when you advance more you'll hold yourself up to a higher standard
in a different way.
So if somebody's on a lower level than us or they've got,
it might not even be lower.
They might be at the same level as us
but they just happen to have different anarchists for me.
So I might have this real false ego problem
where I can't handle anyone saying anything bad about me
whereas another person they've got this problem with sex
and we could have different problems
but I could be criticising them for one problem
meanwhile I've got problems that are just as bad or worse
and that's stupid I guess it's like that Christian idea.
So we should focus on our own faults
and it's the Guru's job to figure out the standard for the person
not every person who happens to see what someone's doing
we should leave each other alone and respect people's differences
So for a person who is perhaps somebody who's gay
the best thing they could do is live a celibate life
but if they can't do that they should at least be monogamous
like reduce the amount of sinfulness
just having a different partner all the time is obviously worse
than having the same partner all the time
and even with transgenderism
some people may be happier transitioning
and if they're happier that way
and they can focus their mind on God better that way
that's awesome but we should be a little bit empirical about that
rather than being a lot of luxury motivated
so we should actually look at the facts of the matter
not just be driven by
and there's a vacuum of religion
created by the secular relation of society
and they've made a religion out of a lot of left ideologies
where it's like you're not even allowed to question
that somebody who thinks that they need to transition
you're not allowed to ask them
if there's anything else going on in your life
if there are any other reasons why you're unhappy
there's higher rates of transitioning among autistic girls
and it's like well maybe they're just autistic
why would autistic girls be transitioning more
because autistic girls feel more comfortable around men
because men are more logical
it's like well you don't need to change gender to hang out with men
to be more logical we can just accept a girl who's more logical
and that might be what makes these people happier
so a little off topic
yeah just getting a little into the political screen
I think a lot of that is like politically motivated
and I think what happens is like
sides get chosen and then people get like
they overextend in whatever which category to where like
it just seems like a mess
I try and stay out of conversations like that
but moving on to your journey
how did you become a Hare Krishna?
so I was a Christian growing up
well we went to church a little bit when I was young
like I think we stopped going by the time I was 5
and then when I was 11 I was bored and lonely
and I said why don't we start growing to church
so we went to church and I made a couple friends there
my mum's still a dedicated Christian following on from there
I was like praying every day for I don't know how long
a couple of years I guess
and then when I was 16 I became my philosophical side
I was coming out as reading Socrates and things
and the church wasn't able
the youth group
I wasn't satisfied with the answers
I had issues with some of the ideas
so I always believed in God
I just came up with this idea that
God exists and you know
Jesus taught stuff about God
other people's taught stuff about God
but maybe no current tradition
has the accurate knowledge about God
and is still presenting it
and in defense of Christianity
the church I was going to
was in the process of watering everything down
in order to cater for a liberal society
and so
maybe things would have been different
if I had a more
substantial church
and then when I was 21
I'd moved back to New Zealand
and there was like a
Harry Christian preaching center
I had some friends that were going there
I was eating Harry Christian prasadam
and the prasadam
is one way to, you know what they say
the quickest way to a man's heart is through his stomach
that the sanctified food
purifies the consciousness
I was eating a lot of that because I was commuting on a bicycle
so I was eating copious amounts
and
first time I went to the loft I was
convinced by the philosophy
this idea that we're trying to
we think we're going to be satisfied
through
that conjugal relationship
we think we'll find that right partner and we'll be happy
but this is delusional
because we all
he gave prominent examples of all sorts of stories of people
thinking they were going to be happy
and then being disappointed
and usually successful marriages
are when people don't place such heavy
expectations on one another
but are just more there to give
rather than expecting
perfection from the other person
and really where we're going to get satisfied
through a relationship with God
and that made complete sense to me the way it was explained
I started reading the books started listening to the lectures
and everything made sense
and I would
you know I would
get based on the teachings that it would seem
that I'd practice Christian consciousness in a past life
because the moment I heard it I was like oh yeah right of course
other people
can take more convincing
and then that was yeah so that was
2011 so I guess
what is that
yeah 11 years now is it
yeah 11 years
after the 10 year mark
you're just kind of like oh 10 years
yeah exactly
exactly wow so did you
like
I don't know do
how Christians have like a born again moment
or is it just kind of like you
slowly
like do you get baptized
or do you like
first initiation
so after you've been chanting 16 rounds a day
for 6 months
you can take initiation
there's various gurus
you find a guru who you're inspired by
who you have faith in
you think faithfully presenting the teachings
you take initiation
they give you a cool Sanskrit name and then you're part of the club
and then you take initiation
they give you a cool string
they give you another mantra and you're allowed to go on the altar
right
I kind of want to get a cool name
okay
that's interesting
I actually did want to ask you
so Hare Krishna you repeat
like you chant something right
is that
so we chant the Hare Krishna Mahamantra
Hare Krishna Hare Krishna Krishna Krishna Hare Hare
Hare Rama Hare Rama Rama Rama
Hare Hare
so that's three names of God
the whole mantra has got 16 names in it
because you repeat them
you chant that 108 times
so
that mantra 108 times is one round
16 of those rounds
every day
that's the standard given by Prabhupada for initiation
and the idea is you have numerical
strength and then you're actually going to do it
so when you
someone wants to exercise they said in their mount
they're going to jog every day and then they're actually going to do it rather than
just say I'll run when I feel like it
I'll try to run as much as I can
but you're not going to do it if you actually set a number to it
you're going to get way better results
it takes
most people two hours
I do it a bit faster because I did
a lot of tongue twisters growing up
mm-hmm
so you do do that every day still
yep
oh wow have you missed a day
like if you're sick or something or
there's been a couple times where I had rounds left over for the next day
because I
too busy
at the time of the next day
is it something like you can do
as you're like commuting to work
or is it something you have to like
I do chant
I usually chant four rounds while I'm driving
and the rest of them I chant
after the kids go to bed
or while I'm jumping on the champion
with the kids which is what I was doing
about an hour before coming online
cool cool
that's really interesting
so I wanted to ask you
about
proper basic beliefs
well I wanted to get into reasons to
believe so reasons to believe
but I first wanted to touch on proper
basic beliefs so like you know
correct me if I'm wrong
I'm a bit new to philosophy but essentially
like when I have
conversations with a relative of mine
who's quite into eastern
religion he'll reject my notion
of the universe
exists
we can make observations with the universe and I exist
he'll reject that somewhat
in some part of our philosophical conversation
and I'm interested
in like what
do you
have proper basic beliefs that you
like they're essentially unjustified
like you can't justify them outside of
just having to accept that they exist
do you have that in your philosophy
so I do like
Alvin Plantic has reformed epistemology
and
again I'm going back to
Dr. Howard Resnick again
he's also known as
he's
he's read a bit of philosophy so I'm sure
he's getting his ideas from similar places
from like Alvin Plantic and other places but
yeah he talks about self-evident truth
he quotes the Declaration of Independence
where it says we hold these truths to be
self-evident that all men were created equal
so even democracy
has properly basic beliefs
if we're going to use that terminology
where do you get this idea of equality
on any
empirical measure you could come up with
you see in my philosophy
I wouldn't say
I would say that no that's not
a proper basic belief in my philosophy I would say
and I might be getting this wrong I might be getting a
terminology wrong and someone's going to correct me and say I'm an idiot
in the comments and I'm sorry
to the commenters but essentially
like what's the bare minimum assumptions
that we can get away with to
then build
like for example like this is something
that I get frustrated
with my family member who
is into eastern
perspectives and things philosophy
is I'll say you have to
to answer my question you have to
assume
presuppose that you exist
that I exist and the universe exists
you have to presuppose those without
any justification at all
you just have to presuppose those
to answer the question because if you don't
presuppose that you exist
you wouldn't answer a question you wouldn't be like
you have to presuppose that he rejects it
and I don't understand why
maybe this is a bit off topic
well yeah I had this conversation
with Aaron Rah and he got really irate
it's like
oh you're speaking to Aaron Rah
yeah I think that one's posted yeah
it's one of my first interactions actually
I did a video responding to him I sent
it to him and a couple people that I included
in the video and I was like debating him and messing
through so he's got things
to do to debate me in private chat
and then I went on his channel and we
chatted and I did I played the same
epistemology game it's like so
you know the basic argument is you want me
to prove God exists using an epistemology
with which I can't even prove my own
existence to you with
which is clearly silly
because
yeah how do you prove external
world realism or the existence
of other minds you just have to take it
for granted but I would say
we're not
just assuming it without evidence
the existence
of the world outside of my mind proves
itself to me by
the nature of the quality so I guess
there's two assumptions we need to
make one assumption
is that we have an ability to tell
hot from cold to distinguish
one quality from another that we have senses
that interact with the world that's one
assumptions and the other assumption is
that
the quality of something has some relationship
to its ontology so
like fake
leather and real leather might fool
the average person but if
you take a microscope to it you're going to see a difference
so
there might be surface level waves which things can sing the same
I think there are more assumptions
I think as soon as you said we
you made an assumption
when you said we can tell the difference between hot
and cold as soon as you said we you've made an assumption
you've made me heaps of assumptions
that you can't
the quality of my experience
of other people
proves to me that they exist
so I'm claiming
to be able to distinguish
between the qualities of people who exist
between a person who exists
and just a figment of my imagination
and I'm claiming
these qualities match on to
a person who
just how do you just like if I say
justify to me you're my
like how do you do that
justify to you that my mind exists
no no like my like when you say
my experiences do this justify the my there
how do you justify the my
not sure if I understand the question
nor do I
maybe this is too
so okay so
what would be some reasons to believe
in your
in Krishna
so the main way
somebody is going to come to an understanding
is through
coming in contact with devotees
eating the Prasad and reading the books
and following the process so sometimes
devotees like to mirror it
to a lab experiment
so you just like
in a lab experiment there's a certain
procedure you follow and then you get results similarly
this is an experiment on consciousness
so you
if you had said in the teachings that
if you if you apply yourself in this way
to these teachings you'll get these
results and they'll come
in this order so
it's we could give an analogy to if
you're out somewhere and you're trying to get to a certain destination
but you don't know how
to get there so you ask somebody can you
tell me how to get to the speech
say and they say oh yeah you get
on this bus you get off that bus you walk down
the street you hop on the train
you get off you walk a bit more and you're there
and they might say you get off the bus
when you see this building or you know
they'll give various signposts along
the way and as you're going first off
you don't know maybe the person's pulling your leg
maybe they think they know how to get there but actually
they don't know either
but as you see
on your journey and you see all this person accurately
described many things about the
terrain your confidence
that this person gave you accurate information goes up
and eventually you make it to the
beach and you can see that they were right all along
similarly with Krishna consciousness you
like there's one verse that says
just as
for a person engaged in eating
three things happen simultaneously
they experience pleasure
they get nourishment
and their hunger goes away
and this is nice and empirical
so like you don't need anyone
to give you a certificate to say you've eaten
a nourishing meal
you know if you've got energy from the food
you're eating you use energy and if you don't
eat well you don't have that energy
you know if your hunger is gone
and you know if the food is pleasurable
so similarly it's said that
for someone engaged in the process of
bhakti of devotion to God
they get direct perception of the absolute truth
they develop
detachment from this world
and they
they get bhakti, bhakti is like
love of God
so I guess the word bhakti in there twice
which is redundant, it must have been a different word
in the verse
okay
interesting have you had any
so when I was in church
I spoke in tongues
I laid my hand on people I fell over
I had some feelings of elation
and euphoria
when I first had my kind of born and
getting experience
I was walking around for like two days
like I was drunk almost
and I just
felt like a completely different person
and people knew me as like this depressed kid in high school
and then the Monday came around
and I was like Captain Christian
actually someone gave me that nickname
Captain Christian because it became this like happy
like run and Bible studies and
friends with everyone
and so I had like a lot of really intense experiences
I no longer attach a truth
claim to those but I'm interested
have you had experiences
what you call spiritual experiences
or maybe profound experiences
or do you know
have you experienced miracles or something like that
in your faith and your journey
yeah I don't know if I've experienced anything
special like that
it's more of like a steady kind of
like being less
interested in material things
I mean
I've always had faith in God somewhat but then
like I used to smoke lots of weed
growing up and stuff and you know gave
gave all that up no problem
gave up eating meat no problem
so
the main one that's easy to measure is the detachment
because it's not something you can fake
right
like the drive
for a sense enjoyment that's
Harry Christian legal but you know just trying to enjoy
out there in the world trying to lord it over
material nature
it's not something you can
that you can overcome
by just like pushing it down
the only way to overcome it
is to sit and bug it
you give up a lower taste
by acquiring a higher taste
so it's more of a
a gradual disinterest
and material pleasures
well
experiencing an increase in
spiritual bliss and it comes and goes
depending on how much I'm actually following
how much I'm
careful what I listen to
what I eat and so on
exactly I had
and I could get up early and go
to the temple in the morning
do all the morning
prayers
interesting
yeah there's a lot of there's a same kind of
idea in Christian
at least where it was always like
rely on God's strength to get through rely on God's
strength to do this you can't do this yourself
this is works and
people would spend time praying
and that and then they would remove away
some of the material
fasting was a big one do you guys fast
yeah so there's
fast days on special festival
days where we're honoring a previous
acharya or an appearance of God
and then there's a car to see
where we don't have any grains
but you can also fast
the whole day on a car to see whether it's optional
at least we just don't need grains
okay cool
and there's
so many harry christian is in one city that
the shops on a car to see they put
a car to see on the potatoes
harry christians all eat potatoes on a car to see
okay well let's jump
as we wrap up now we'll jump over
to the q&a so a bunch of these
questions are from some of these questions
are from my discord
some people online some friends
and family members some of
one or two are from me so
they'll pop up on screen and I was
hoping you could answer them
so we've got about 10 or 11 here
so
so in no particular order
the first one is
what do you think of the plausibility of the existence
of the christian god
so I think
I mean
I think the christians are worshiping
God just like people in different cultures
are using the same sun even if they
think different things about the sun and call the sun
a different name
so the question would be what do I think about the plausibility
of certain christian conceptions of God
and then I would just pick a particular
christian conception of God which is close
as to what harry christians believe and say I like
that one so
do you want to be more specific
I guess
like let's say let's take like
the church
the church style
that I was involved in like the pentecostal
hill song-esque
kind of
christianity type of christianity
what do you think of the plausibility
of that being like the one true
interpretation of
God
so can you
give me a description of it
yeah so do you know hill song
yeah yeah I know hill song
yeah so like do you think
they don't make
a lot of ontology of God in their song so
they don't what
they don't give a lot of ontology
about God in their song so
yeah I guess what I'm asking
is like do you
find christianity like as an idea
in itself plausible like say for example
harry christian
vaishnava
vaishnava is that right
yeah vaishnavism
if vaishnavism was not
was not a
thing like it didn't exist would you
like and you had to choose like another religion
or you had to find another way to connect to God
would you
if I didn't have
knowledge from Bhagavad Gita
and so on
and I came in contact with christianity
I might be satisfied if I came
in contact with the version of eastern
orthodoxy
okay
there's a lot of focus on the chanting
of the holy name in the eastern orthodox church
well I should
qualify that
there's a lot of debate and it's considered
heresy by many
but there's a
strong minority who has a strong
belief in the power of the holy name
harry christian is all about the power of the holy name
so that stuff is quite impressive
I have a documentary on my channel about
the persecuted saints you've never heard of
and it covers a little bit about what they believe
and how it's similar to how christians live
interesting I'll link one of your videos
down below you can tell me which one you want me to link
to your channel
of this video
so next question regarding your beliefs
how supportive is your family
so
my wife's the harry christian
my kids believe what I tell them to believe
because they're six and three
they love it I mean the harry christian
school the teachers there say it's so much nicer
teaching at the harry christian school than anywhere else
the kids are more angelic
my mum is a christian
and when I first joined
I tried having philosophical debates
with her but yeah
she's not a debater
but now ten years on
I'm a lot more mature and she is too
she'll like have fun with her friends
that are christians and say you know my son's a harry christian
they'll like sort of be shocked and they'll say
you know what they do
they chant god's holy names
out on the street quite regularly
they'll like
in a way that a christian wouldn't really have a problem with it
and they're like a little bit surprised
because they don't really know anything about harry christians
so yeah my mum's
supportive and my dad's
not really into religion
so he doesn't mind he's just happy I'm happy
cool cool
um
how is
believing christian different from other easting gods
what sets apart your specific belief
system
and I know this is a bit
you talked about you kind of see
obviously god as
people worshiping christian from different religions
right so it's kind of a hard question
yeah so I mean
you do get shivites who think she was the supreme
person out of godhead
they'll often be
impersonalists
um
I mean other eastern gods
I'm not
totally hip on everything that could be categorized
as eastern god I know I used the term
but I'm just really using that
as a term that people understand to refer
to christian consciousness
also in buddhism
there's certain versions of mahayana buddhism
which are really theistic
and they talk about how in the
dharma ending age that we're currently in
the soul salvific practice
is the chanting of nimbutsu
which is like the holy name of lord buddha
um which sounds
a lot like what shri titania taught
which shri titania founded
he started our branch which is all
focused on chani harakrishna
which he says you know there's a quote
from one of the Vedas that in the sage
of karal and hypocrisy that
the only means
of salvation is the chanting of gods holy names
um
but yeah so I mean
there are a lot like there's a lot of versions
of hinduism that I'd say are similar to
like nature spirit
worship or ancestor worship or different
things so I'd say they differ because
they're not really worshiping god or they've
got a lot of misconceptions about what god
is at least
okay
um why is this
religion true and all others three plus
three thousand plus wrong
actually I'm about to publish
a video which is briefly
touches on that I've done a few videos on religious
exclusivism so
um
there could be three thousand plus religions I know there's
thirty thousand denominations of christianity I could
probably ask a Christian the same thing why is
your denomination of christianity true in the other
thirty thousand wrong
I think it's actually thirty five thousand
thirty five thousand okay my apologies
forty forty five thousand yeah it's a lot
okay
um so yeah
actually I did a video which was responding to
the argument from inconsistent revelation where
there are atheists like to say you know there's
like a thousand say to die and on one side
is christianity so why would you think christianity
is true the chances are they're all false but when they
say that they're not saying the chances are
they're all false what they're saying is the chances
are there's another head on that die which is
atheism chances are that one's true
but of course
it loses its rhetorical power when you
give a more accurate statement like that
uh
and then I gave a list of five
things that all the religions
based pretty much all religions believe in that
this world is not our home there's some other
place or some other goal which is our home
uh we
our existence continues on after the
death of the body uh
there's a few things like that that everyone agrees
on so if we're gonna you know give an argument
like the one that that
these atheists give then actually
the atheist loses um
so yeah back on topic so
what I would explain
why these exist and why that's consistent with god
being all loving rather than explain why they're
all wrong so uh one
you know god gives a revelation that's meant
for a particular place in a particular time
and people just carry it on because they
don't actually get hip with the new revelation
or uh they they don't
catch catch the new prophet
that comes and gives the corrections and they just keep with
the misunderstanding of the old one um
or it was just a
very simplistic teaching meant for a
particular time for like
like in in educating
students they'll do this a lot and physics they'll teach
some people something that's like the real things
too complicated for them and understand so they'll teach
old physics which was easier to understand
and then when they get to you know
university they're eventually like oh yeah all that stuff
we taught you it's it's kind of not that accurate
here's the real understanding
and that's not it's not
lying it's not being deceitful the teachers aren't
lying to the kids when they teach them in this way
they're just doing what the kids need in order
to progress in their understanding so similarly
these other religions could be giving
uh it's not
totally true ontological claims
but it's what these people benefit from understanding
in this way like Krishna says for those
who worship the demigods they make their face
strong uh and and the Vedas you
find statements that Shiva's supreme in the Shiva
Prana and then elsewhere you find statements
that Krishna's supreme and I
say the Vedas aren't deceiving you because if you
look at the Vedas in totality you can find
actually that's actually saying
that Krishna's supreme you find statements saying
Shiva is this in relation to Krishna you
don't find statements saying Krishna
is subordinate to Shiva so if you just talk about Shiva
and you make the supreme claims that you're sort of leaving
out some truth but if you if you talk about them
in relation to one another then
you you've got to speak accurately so
uh yeah that's I think that's covered
that eh? Yeah
um this is a good one
what evidence is there for reincarnation
and can it be falsified?
So yeah if there's
the evidence for reincarnation
could be falsified um the evidence
for reincarnation maybe
some people are aware I've debated this on my channel
a couple of times or I debated
on Caption Christianity it was posted on my channel
uh the one where
Seth was quite good he had some good objections
the evidence comes in the form of
children who spontaneously report memories
of past lives researchers like Steven Tucker
sorry
Jim Tucker and
Steven uh his name's
Dr Ian Stevenson have
collected these cases and been quite
rigorous about like they've put them
in a database and compared them and stuff
so uh the cases are compelling
when they have
three different lines of evidence all converging
so they're able to identify
a previous personality a deceased
individual and this
child has three different kinds of evidence that
match the deceased individual so they have
personality traits that carry over
like behavior they might
show signs of PTSD that match the cause
of death from the previous life
like a child who remembers drowning will have
a phobia of water uh a child
who remembers dying in a plane crash
will have a phobia of planes
um and
they'll like carry over personality traits
so have birthmarks that match the death wound on the
previous personality
and they'll what's the third one
they're able to report accurate details
about this person's life
uh that you know they say they think
they remember it turns out those things did happen
in one case a boy was able to locate
a gold coin which the previous personality
to hidden another child located
uh in the drain on the property
that no one had ever noticed they'd carved a name
and he located and pointed out none of the
the family other than
had known about it that it was there until this child
pointed it out so could it be
falsified yeah I mean if you
found that there was some
hoax going on where the gold coin
was planted and it was all arranged
to cheat everybody um
so yeah each individual
case could be falsified but there's
a lot of these cases and it would seem
weird for them to all be hoaxes
it seems to be that
they're actual organic cases
yeah I'm just
um I've seen some stuff
that's quite compelling like I watched that documentary
on Netflix um surviving
death I think it's called and there's like episodes
six about um
and uh I was quite blown away by that
because I don't know anything about reincarnation but
wouldn't you say like
just to push back on that a little bit um
to play devil's advocate wouldn't you say couldn't
you say the same thing about children who
die and go to heaven
and then come back there's heaps of books written
about that and videos and
documentaries and testimonials
about people who die and then like go to heaven
and then they come back
which I don't think it even works biblically by the way
but it's just
um
how is that
supposed to be inconsistent with reincarnation what's
well
well I think that
I thought there was
like reincarnation I didn't think there
was a heaven with um
reincarnation I thought the
concept was
I mean there's a spiritual world that we can
ascend to that that's the ultimate goal
it's not just permanent reincarnation
it's reincarnation to learn
the lessons we need to learn and eventually
make it out of this material world however
for those children who
experience going to heaven they're probably
going to
not going to the spiritual world proper they're probably
going to like an intermediate realm
which is full of love where
guiding angels or
I mean God might appear to these people
who knows where the way they're
powered in love and prepared
for the next lessons and then sent
back again okay
um
the bug about Gita
what 413 talks about Christian
recruiting the caste system can you touch on what that means
and how readers may misunderstand what is
being taught
let me pull up the verse
I mean I can't comment on the caste system
I'm just interested to see what the verse is
so according to the three
modes of material nature and work associated
with them the four divisions of human society
created by me and although I'm
the creator of the system you should know that I'm
yet the non-doer being
unchangeable right so the caste
system is often maligned
because of the
modern degradation of it
so it's not based on birth
it's based on quality
anyone who says it's based on birth
they need to defend that claim
based on the Vedas
and so
anything that people take trouble with
based on the caste system I would probably
join them in having problems with that
and arguing against it
the I've
mother Irmila
Edith Bess
she's done a lot of work on it
the books come out yet she's down
a lecture series called the yoga path
of right livelihood I think
and she talks about it it's basically
just like a Vedic system
of Myers-Briggs of understanding
your psychophysical nature
so the
the four
Varna's
Suja
Vaisya Brahman
what differentiates them is not how intelligence
they are how capable they have
but what makes them tick
so Suja it's about creating beauty
even a plumber
creates beauty because they can do
beautiful pipe work even though no one's going to see it
and also by them doing their plumbing work
the world is more beautiful if we didn't have plumbers
the world would be a lot more ugly
Vaisya creates wealth
they're the kind of person who
they'll make a business
grow it to a certain size sell it for 30 million dollars
and then when you ask them why are you still working
they're like I just like to
they buy another dozen
scale it up and sell it for
100 million dollars this time and they'll just continue
doing that because and the perfect
expression of that is producing food
so you know if I just grow enough potatoes
to feed my family and stop
that's not really so good for society
but if we have a number of people who they grow
enough to feed their family and then they buy
another farm and they grow even more and they get people
working for them and before long they're feeding the entire
village that's really good
for society the Shatriya
is driven by the
the government
officers kind of people and the soldiers
they're driven by protecting Dharma principles
by making sure people
are getting their needs met they can't bear to see
someone Dharma violated
and a person become a victim
and that's what makes these people tick
so if you have these people in government
things go nicely if you have a suger in government
a suger is just like
to enjoy so they'll
be
they'll be bought with lobbying money and make decisions
that aren't best for society because
they don't have the strength
they're not driven by Dharma in the same way
they'll compromise so look a few politicians
we have in Australia at the moment
yeah yeah so most politicians
are sugerers and then the Brahmins
they're driven by ideas they care about truth
and these are the people
you want being intellectuals because
they won't compromise on truth
if they think something's true they'll say it regardless
of how it's going to affect them financially
and then of course how you structure
if you have these people in these positions
they'll create constraint and incentive structures
and make things work nicely so
if it's followed well then society
is peaceful
rich
beautiful
full of good
accurate understandings of the world and how to make life better
and principles are upheld
and this is why Krishna creates it
cool
how do you think the world would differ if
Eastern philosophy had a greater influence
on the West?
well
I mean one thing we got to be careful of
is taking the best
from the East and comparing it to the worst of the West
so we could equally ask
how would the world
differ if the best
aspects of Western philosophy had a greater influence
so just to
qualify the statement there but I mean
I think a lot of the philosophy of religion debates
would have a lot more interesting things to talk about
would change course a lot
a problem of evil would probably lessen
if we brought on this idea of karma and reincarnation
but like
let's be more specific
and say what if
Harry Krishna philosophy had a greater influence
then there'd be a lot less meat eating
there'd be a lot less intoxication
there'd be a lot less illicit sex
and there'd be a lot more
chanting of the holy names
like right now in Wellington
there's a couple of devotees
who are at this protest
against the wishes of the managers
of the society
but they're having some really interesting experiences with the holy name
when there's tensions with the protesters and the police
both the police and the protesters
have figured out that the Harry Krishna chanting
de-escalate
things and calm things down
so everyone's appreciating the
presence of the holy name down there
so I would say
if there was more chanting of the Harry Krishna
it would be less crime because chanting
Harry Krishna purifies people's consciousness
that might also be true
of the Jesus prayer though
just to be ecumenical
and I appreciate that
what advice would you give
to another Harry Krishna that finds himself
doubting their beliefs
they should watch my youtube channel
that's a good answer
yeah I mean
so I would
you know the
one of the story Jordan Peterson likes to tell
like an archetype of the dragon
which is chasing you
is way worse than the dragon you're facing
so often people have doubts
and just ignore them for years and years and years
and it just gradually eats away at them
until there's nothing left inside and they just fold
really what you should do
is if you have a doubt
the doubts are the food for your faith
so if you take your doubts
to people
who have human faith and can answer them
and are just
will give open honest answers
to your satisfaction
and figure out how to word your questions really well
and really come to a deeper understanding
then your faith should grow stronger
I guess that would be true of any religion
you got to be careful of people
who don't like your questions and don't want to answer them
you want to find people that enjoy answering the questions
some people don't like a challenge
and also
when you do that
you might have a doubt and you think this doubt
is actually a really big deal
but as soon as you try to articulate
you realize oh actually this is a really dumb idea
it doesn't even make sense
I can't even articulate it clearly
putting things to words and trying to express them
to other people is really helpful
and figuring out if it's a good idea or not
and coming to clarity on it
cool
the last question
and then we have a bonus question
but the last question, the last important question
what if anything would change your mind?
like make me accept Jesus
as the one true Lord and Saviour
I'll make you question
your current beliefs, yeah
so
if I found
members of another religion
we're having way higher
quality of character
more detachment from the material world
displaying greater love of God
and I could
apply myself to that
take all my questions to them
get satisfying answers
have all my doubts answered
and if I could also experience
a similar transformation
through applying the process they're applying
then maybe I would jump ship
however I am currently
getting all of that satisfaction from Christian consciousness
what if
you know how we got like new atheism
that popped up, what if there's like new new atheism
and these atheists don't believe in God
but they are far more fulfilled
than any other religion
would you consider becoming an atheist?
I mean I just don't see that happening
so
what's the practice
of these atheists
that makes them so happy?
they walk around
and say Dawkins and Hitchens over and over again
Dawkins and Hitchens
what would it be
Denet Hitchens
Hitchens Denet Hitchens Hitchens
and it's Dawkins
Harris Harris
and then no no
I mean that's just making a deity out of the new atheists
and then you've got another problem
there's just too much evidence
that humans
have a need
that we have a God shaped hole in our heart
we have a need to venerate something
to have something higher than ourselves
have an experience of coming in contact with that higher thing
and having that
purify our heart
and become attracted to that
instead of being attracted to things of this world
it's so clear all through human history
all through psychology
all through the world religions
that this is an intrinsic part of human nature
I don't see how
it's kind of like asking what would it take to convince me
that the moon's brighter than the sun
it's like well I guess the moon would have to actually be brighter than the sun
yeah
that's a good point
okay well this is the final question
and I really hope you have an answer to this
because a friend of mine asked this as a joke
to me
to ask you and I was like no I'm going to actually ask it
because it's a great question
because as far as I know
food is an important part of the Hare Krishna way
right
so the last question, bonus question
what is your favourite food and can we have the recipe
this might
be like a disappointing answer
fried pizza is one of my favourite foods
I like it when it's got a fun base
so yeah
we aren't known as the kitchen religion
but the spiritual aspect
of the food is in the
making sure it's things Krishna accepts
so you can't offer a meat
it's got to be
mode of goodness which means not too spicy
not too salty not too sweet
like middle
middle ground kind of thing balanced healthy
but other than that
it doesn't matter if it's Mexican or Italian
or it's really funny because the people
who are really conservative and try to argue
that it's got to be Indian food
a lot of the food they serve is actually Turkish
because India is so
either Muslims
and Turks
that's interesting
yeah so pizza I like it
thin base you've got to cook the base the heat of time
I've done it before
many years ago when I was quite young
we had a friend we were selling pizzas
on a trailer
and we just had a
a big tin of tomato pasting
but that was the base
didn't even make it
you get away with it
and you put cheese on it
so what do you put on a vegetarian pizza
I'm a vegetarian by the way
I eat a lot of cheese
all sorts of things I mean olives
the kids usually want only cheese
it's nice to roast veggies
to put on
I guess the classic
one would be zucchini
zucchini
yeah right
yeah yeah
okay interesting
so give us your
like if you had a top tier piece of you right now
what are your toppings
I don't know you should not worry about the toppings
usually it's just about having the cheese
melted in the base cooked
just cheese
yeah no no you'd have basil
capsicum
usually we'd do it
for a large gathering we're just doing whatever is quick and easy
so we usually have frozen corn
yeah
olives and fresh basil is really good
awesome alright well that's great
thank you so much Arjuna for jumping on the channel
and really appreciate it
and I'll send some links people can go check it and stuff
and yeah thanks for jumping on
cool thank you
