Hey, hey, hey, welcome to Deep Drinks podcast.
My name is Dave McDonald and this is going to be an exciting episode as they all are,
they all bloody exciting.
But first of all, my guest is Michael Jones, who's a passionate Christian philosopher,
apologist and content creator.
I consider Michael a friend.
He's also a friend of the show.
And so what better thing for two friends to do than to sip whiskey and argue about religion.
So welcome, Michael Jones to Deep Drinks podcast.
Sup.
How you doing, man?
All right.
All right.
Well, before we jump into it.
I want to just personally thank you on behalf of, I guess, the Internet, the world for something
that you did in a debate with Daniel Hikachikabeku.
Oh, man, like, let me just.
So I actually, I cleaned up the audio a bit and I bring in a little clip.
So you were arguing with Daniel about Islam and you brought up child marriage or.
That was the subject of the debate.
That was a debate wasn't even Islam.
He wanted to debate.
Should we allow child marriage or not?
Just generally.
I'm like, your funeral, your funeral.
Okay.
So this is a little 50 second clip I took from the conversation.
It's just amazing.
You know what precocious purity is?
Yes, I do.
Okay.
What is it?
Going, starting puberty unusually early, like beyond averages.
Is there anything in Islam that prevents you from, you know, man marrying a five year
old that started precocious purity?
No, marriage can happen like you can arrange a marriage even as an infant, but that doesn't
mean that sex is allowed.
But could a man have a marriage to a five year old consummate it if she started precocious
purity?
If she starts showing signs of physical maturity, then yes, that's permissible as I stated.
What about age four?
If there are signs of, so this is something that becomes biologically impossible because
precocious.
I have 30 shows that goes as early as 11 months.
I was going to have the, I was going to have the, oh no, oh no, no, no, no, no, no, but
it's copyrighted.
So I didn't want to get it.
You don't, you don't understand.
I was planning to ask him those questions at least three months in advance.
I had worked that out.
I'm like, this is the question I'm going to ask him now.
I'm going to start having him count down from five, four to three to try to get him as young
as I can go.
Like if he walked right into that trap so well, I remember, cause we were talking about it
and I remember like I was, I was coming up with the most super offensive super chats
that I could think of and, and running them by you, but like, is this, would this be okay?
Would this be read out?
And it's like, I don't know.
And you're like, I don't even got to be read out as to insulting.
But yeah, it was, it was good times.
It's a good job.
You did a good job there.
So what are we drinking today?
Likeable and 16.
This is the first drink.
Alcoholic drink I ever drank on deep drinks is the first drink you ever suggested on deep
drinks as well.
You're the second ever guest.
And we have some awesome people in the comments as well.
I just want to shout out what is else is everyone drinking?
We have digital Hammurabi here, Kip Davis, Zoellis, Sylvia, my mother, Tom does tech.
Hey, you guys.
Hey, you guys doing John D hang for she Dan McClellan.
Geez, this is a, and I'm sorry if I missed anyone, but this is a, this is a smorgasbord
of biblical peoples in the smarties in the chat.
So before we get started, as we sip this whiskey, I've got some memes to do with you.
And then we're going to jump into the debate.
I didn't want to jump in one really hot and, and over the top straight away.
So first of all, I got some, I got five.
I think it's four memes, two anti-Christian, two anti-Atheists, and I want you to just
re-rate them from, like, I don't know, like, ST is the highest and ABCD.
All right, we're going to, we're going to do this.
Okay, first one.
Are you there, dad?
It's me, you.
That's a bang, all right.
That's good.
There's nothing more than just, you know, constantly being accused of being a modalist
for the nine millionth time.
I like it because there's verses in the Bible right where it's, where Jesus is
explicitly like talking to God, but then in later interpretations, the Trinity is
like, isn't the idea that the Trinity, like God is God and the father of one and
like, and all that, right?
No, no, no, that's modalism.
Modalism is the idea that, you know, the father, the son and the spirit are just
the same person.
And Trinitarianism is there's one God who is three persons.
Of course, they're going to talk to each other.
Like it's, it's seen as stuff all the time where it's like, oh, you're Christian.
Well, you must believe Jesus was praying to himself.
No, we don't.
That's not Trinitarianism.
I just feel like you and God have made this way too complicated.
You know, like, you're welcome.
When this is an anti-Atheist meme, when you don't believe in God, but spend
three fourths of your life trying to debunk him as if he does exist.
Why are they always fat?
I don't get it.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I'm trying not to fall into that stereotype, but like, you got to admit
there is like this, the end thought he's even got the fedora.
I mean, this is, I think this is like just a beat here.
This isn't anything, anything amazing.
But, you know, it's, it's, it's all right.
It's all right.
It's got Dawkins on the wall.
Remember, I actually sent you a photo because I've got, I've got a portrait
of Christians.
You're like, is that a shrine?
That is a shrine, a lie to me.
I saw your shrine to Hitchens.
Next meme.
All right.
Atheist, religious people.
Why do religious people hate us?
I mean, that goes both ways, though.
Like, sure.
Oh, yeah, that's, that's, that's tribalism right there.
I mean, you could literally just reverse this, you know, Christians and then
put atheists on there.
Why do atheists hate us?
I mean, yeah, it's a good, I love this meme.
This meme template is like amazing.
That meme template is prime.
It is, it is one of my favorite templates.
Okay.
And last one, I'm pretty sure.
Oh, this is my favorite.
This is what's side of the whole thing.
Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine, I don't know, I'm Maxwell being personally
blessed by the point.
Well, great.
Now people are going to associate the Catholic church with pedophilia.
That's horrible.
That's S tier.
That's S that is such a good meme.
I love that meme.
It's so good.
What do you think?
I mean, you're like, there's rumors going around that you might be a Catholic.
You refuse to, to acknowledge or deny.
I'm an ortho-Catholic Protestant.
Okay, that's great.
Don't tell people.
There you go.
All right.
Well, let's, let's, let's jump into the, into this as the whiskey takes effect.
So we started this, this conversation essentially where you, I think it was a
meme that you posted or you, it was an argument, but you and Dilla Hunty,
Matt Dilla Hunty were going back and forth on Twitter and I said, surely it
depends on whether or not Christianity is harmful.
And I said, surely it depends on the criteria.
You know, like anecdotally, Christianity has been a net harm to everyone I've
interviewed in the LGBT community.
Those effects are by purity culture.
Those suffering religious trauma and it's links with conspiratorial thinking.
And then you said, why don't you have me on again?
And we can do a podcast episode on that.
And I said, would love to.
And that's how we ended up here today.
You also sent me a video that I want everyone to go check out if they haven't
already, it's really good.
It's really well produced.
Um, is Christianity harmful and it's 50 minutes long, only 50 minutes.
And you go through the studies and, and everything like that.
And you build like a pretty good case.
Could you talk a little bit about, I guess this isn't a debate, but, um,
it's more of a philosophical mud wrestle.
But if could you go through, I guess, part of your like arguments here,
like your findings?
Yeah.
So, uh, that video was not just made by me and a sociologist named Kenneth Vaughn
helped me write it and produce it.
So it wasn't just like coming from, I worked with an expert on this one.
So, uh, the basic idea is that it's kind of, um, the accumulation of a lot of
data I've done, uh, from debates.
Like I've debated Matt Dill, Hunty on this, Aaron Robb, some guy named Vegan Gaines.
I debated Michael Schermer on this topic.
So it's just years of me sort of collecting this data and just putting it all
together to debunk the whole myth that you get from a lot of internet
atheists, which is that religion is harmful, specifically Christian religiosity.
If we need to eradicate it, so the world will become much more ethical,
much more enlightened, much more smarter.
And so I just start going through the actual data that's been published on this
and just show, no, intrinsic religiosity, uh, Christian religiosity in general
is associated with numerous benefits like self-control, lower levels of
progression, lower levels of depression, uh, lower levels of suicide.
It's associated with higher things, good things that care for the environment.
It's associated with lower levels of racism.
It's associated with a lot of positive benefits.
So the question then becomes is, why are you trying to get rid of something
that is so good for society and historically has been very, very good
and helpful for building the basis of Western civilization?
You know, I'll see a lot of people say, you know, the Bible is pro-slavery.
Well, I mean, I could say several historians that would say the reason
why the abolitionist movement was so successful was because it was building
on foundations that got from Christianity.
We probably would not be as, as anti-slavery as we are now, if it wasn't
for Christianity, we probably wouldn't have, uh, uh, the same robust understanding
of human rights if it wasn't for Christianity.
So it's just the basis of that video is just to look at the current
sociology and then just sort of show how it's associated with all these positive
benefits.
Right now I'm doing research, uh, to do the historical aspect of that show
how Christianity led to Western civilization and a lot of the positive
benefits that we have.
Hmm.
Yeah.
And for the most part, like for, for a lot of it, like, although my atheist
blood was seething, um, I was seething through the whole thing.
Although I have to agree that like the research, you seem to be well researched
and, and I tend to tend to at least not, uh, not, uh, strongly disagree on
anything that, that you first brought up.
There are a few things that I, um, disagree with, uh, in principle, but,
but nothing like really serious until, until I guess the later part of the, uh,
the, the video, um, so I, I kind of, I kind of agree that Christianity
can be a net positive for, you know, people like maybe going through, uh,
the prison system.
I think Islam is the same.
Like, and, and again, well, guys, I don't actually, I haven't prepared
studies for this because I wasn't treating this like a debate.
Michael, and Michael was building off of his head, but anecdotally, anecdotally,
uh, all I can think, all, I know that like people who, you know, I was
involved from, you know, I, I, I know a lot of people want to rehab and a
lot of them would convert to Islam and then that's when they were, their
lives would get, they'd get better or convert to Christianity or convert, you
know, and I can, I can definitely see something.
In fact, I would be concerned.
I, I think religion, uh, Christianity specifically has to be a net positive
for society.
I don't think it would continue to exist, uh, if it didn't, like, I think that
it's probably, it has to bring something.
I would push back.
I don't, I don't think that's necessarily the case.
Like I, let's look, let's look at Islam, for example.
Um, Islam on individual levels is associated with positive benefits,
like lower levels of aggression, more, uh, sometimes more self-control in
certain areas.
Um, uh, but when you start getting to national and regional levels, there,
there are issues with Islam.
So a role into Salem study looked at Catholicism, Protestantism and Islam and
look for measures of political stability in various things.
What he found is that the Christian countries, uh, more so Protestantism and
less so Catholicism are associated with more political stability, uh, more
put the ability to create political transformation for good, more voice and
accountability in government, uh, more non-governmental organizations.
So, uh, that kind of stuff.
Meanwhile, Islam did not correlate with any of that stuff.
Uh, there was another study by Davis Brown on interstate armed conflict.
He looked at, uh, Buddhism.
Islam and Christianity, Islam was positively, positively associated with
more interstate armed conflict.
Christianity was negatively associated with it and Buddhism was not significant.
So, and that's just a couple of studies.
I have more than I could go on when it comes to Islam, but I think you can
make a case that Islam has an ethics built for the seventh century.
It has a political system built for the seventh century.
Uh, when it starts to try to advance into more of the modern era, it starts to
run into issues on the national and the regional level.
On the individual level, you can still find positive benefits, but on the
national and regional level, in some areas, it does start to cause some issues.
Uh, like what I mentioned, political stability and war and stuff.
That would be the same with Christianity there, right?
That's like why partly why you're not even national, uh, Christian nationalists.
Well, I would say Christian nationalism, well, I mean, I'm vehemently against
Christian nationalism and one of the videos I did is does Christianity cause
Christian nationalism and I went over actual research that shows that
Christian nationalism rises among the least churched individuals on the right.
So Christianity, what happens is, is like, it's Philip Gorski basically said,
and I quoted him in the video, which is that when people start to secularize on
the right, not talking about people on the left, but on the right, they just sort
of reinterpret Christian symbols into a political ideology.
And so Christian nationalism rises from almost like a process of like secularizing
on the right.
So it's not so much this idea that, uh, like the, you know, a Christian nation
is necessarily Christian nationalists.
Christian nationalism is more of what I would call a political religion.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I would agree with that.
Like you get your Nick Fuentes and stuff like that.
Um, the white supremacist Nick Fuentes and which is the least be upon him.
But, um, but going, going back a little bit to your, um, I'm arguing about slavery.
Um, I would say that the Christians who were abolitionists were doing that in spite
of their religion, like they were, they were like pushing back against years and
years and years of, uh, justification because of the Bible.
That's like factually true, right?
Well, not sure what you entirely mean, because slavery was the standard norm
throughout civilizations up until basically Christian Europe started
pushing back against it.
I mean, the first guy to ever suggest the abolition of slavery was Gregory of
Nisa.
I don't know who that was.
Um, force, force century church father.
Okay.
But, but like he would have to do that in spite of what it says.
Is that the right word in spite, despite in spite?
In spite, yeah, would have to do it in spite of what it says in the Bible.
Like you would, you wouldn't, you agree.
Like we've talked about this past, but you would agree that the Bible
endorses slavery as commanded by Yahweh.
Yeah.
No, I would say it tolerates it.
I don't say it endorses it.
I think that's just going too far than what it actually says.
And I think a lot, I think a lot of these verses, especially in the New
Testament are taken wildly out of context.
Okay.
What about, um, what about like X is 21, you know, how to beat your slave?
Yeah, I would say, yeah, I did a video about this a while back where I just said,
yeah, that could very well just be chattel slavery.
But I mean, there are various passages throughout the Bible where God is
basically admitting the mosaic covenant was a compromise.
So you have like Matthew 19 where, you know, Jesus says the law of divorce was
given because your hearts were hard for a simulate.
This idea of like, I'll modify the covenant to allow a king, but I think
that's a bad idea, this kind of idea.
That, can I think about that for a second?
So that, that comes across like an argument, like God's hands are tied.
Yeah.
Like, yeah, like God, God couldn't do anything.
Like he's all powerful.
He's all knowing, but something fooled him.
His hands are tied.
I wouldn't say that.
It's a question of what God is trying to do.
Is he trying to create robots or is he trying to create moral progress and free
people?
He's not going to manipulate and sort of just control like puppets.
So why could he command things like the death penalty for slay, for, for
breaking the Sabbath, for picking up sticks on the Sabbath or eating shrimp?
You know, that's a sin.
But he couldn't say don't own human beings as property.
Or if someone, you know, if you take war criminals, they're not your slaves.
They're just, you know, help them out.
Why couldn't he say that?
So one thing to keep in mind is I don't believe the Mosaic law was ever enforced
as like the law of Israel.
I think this is, it's more going to be more akin to something like the code
of Haberabi or middle of the Syrian laws, code of Lipid Ishtar.
This is not like the law of ancient Israel.
This is going to be more similar to something that's going to be
exhortational or didactic.
It's like a treatise on judicial wisdom for the time.
So I don't think these, the death penalties being given in there are
basically like laws that God is going to say, oh, no, this is like the minimum
requirement on what needs to happen in this type of thing.
And, you know, for example, like Kenneth Burglund talks about this in his
chapter in the book, exploring the composition of the penit tube, as well
as John Walton's book, The Lost World of Torah, Dilbert Hiller's book, Covenant.
Basically, it's the idea, this is not the idea that they looked at this as
like it's a law code.
This is teaching the moral importance of something.
This is expressing basically like how important these things are.
So let me just quote Kenneth Burglund from exploring the composition of the
penit tube to sort of give a better idea of what I'm trying to say.
He says, they indicate why Torah should not be understood as legislative.
We find substantial indications in the instructions given specifically to judges.
Their Torah as such is nowhere explicitly said to be a source of ancient
Israelite jurisprudence.
In other words, it's not seen as an autonomous legal source with sufficiently
comprehensive formulations to regulate and sanction the conduct of the people.
It is a striking fact that none of the instructions to judges speak of
consulting and judging according to the Torah.
Instead, the judges are admonished to judge according to the more general
standard of justice.
So I don't think this was God basically giving like the minimal sentence.
Like, you know, it's more about expressing the importance of these
commands or the actual wisdom behind them than it actually being like jurisprudence.
So, so like where people killed for picking up, what do you think people
were ever killed for picking up sticks on the Sabbath?
I think, yeah, sure, it probably did happen at times under Yahweh's command.
Perhaps, but I mean, again, I don't see what that has to do with like the actual
topic at this time, because my whole take on this would be the idea of moral
progress.
So you basically have this idea that got, so let me give you an analogy in the
1800s, Britain imposed child marriage laws in India.
You could not marry someone under the age of 12.
Now, there are Robert Woodbury notes that at the time, the British people
wanted that to be higher.
But in India, the Muslims and the Hindus rioted.
They, it almost led to like, it led to a lot of conflicts, basically.
So his basic point was, is that this was like a slow thing being like, all
right, these people think it's okay to marry nine year olds.
Let's, let's, let's, let's, let's start with 12.
And then in a few decades, we'll move it up to like 14 and then 16.
That kind of idea.
Yeah.
My basic idea when it comes to the Old Testament is kind of something similar.
You have people that are living in an ancient Near Eastern culture.
They're going to be thinking certain ways.
They're going to be have very dark dispositions, I would say.
And so the Mosaic covenant is a way to sort of further humanity along a little
bit more until you get ready for like the profits to come.
And then the new covenant.
So it's about this idea of moral progress.
God tolerates certain things in there because it's helping humanity
slowly get to a better place.
I can, that's to, um, to be blunt and like people, I asked if I could be blunt.
I called you a week ago and said, how, you know, how hard can I go to be blunt?
That, that sounds very much all too human.
It sounds like what every society around the world has done.
It seems like it has nothing to do with it or knowing all powerful
creator of the universe.
And furthermore is like, uh, I've lost my channel of thought.
Well, I mean here, I would, I would agree, but disagree in certain ways.
So for one thing, I mean, I think for in one way, yeah, it can be very human-like.
I mean, I don't think we're entirely divorced from the way God thinks and acts.
I mean, I think to some degree, uh, I hate to use this term because I don't
think that's what the amalgaday really means, but, uh, I think in some ways
we are his image in some sense, but not in the way Genesis means.
Uh, so we are going to reflect some of his personal traits as conscious beings
created by a conscious creator.
So I think there was that aspect going in there.
Uh, and I would also say that, you know, there, there is aspects that John
Batero talks about or John Walton talks about, that the mosaic law was quite
revolutionary for its time and how it sort of phrased things and presented.
Oh, it may have been.
Well, let me, let me just like, let me run this.
Uh, I forgot what the, I'm not very good with words.
I don't have big brain, but I know what love is.
I, I'm not a smart man, but I know what love is.
But, um, so let me just run this like test by you.
Okay.
Let's say that we lived in a society.
Let's say there's a third testament that comes around.
That isn't the Book of Mormon, but it's like, you know, this is another,
another 10 commandments come down and we're living in a society that's just
rampant with sexual immorality.
You know, people are sleeping in each other, you know, everyone's
a sex worker.
Like, you know, it's just like only everyone has no any fans.
Michael Jones has no any fans.
Like everyone does, right?
Don't tell anyone.
Do you think God would come?
God would give instructions on how to operate that sex work.
Do you think God would be like Oral only on Thursdays, you know, anyone
that has group sex must do it, you know, with the baby piglet.
Like, do you, what, what do you, like, what do you think God would do that?
Like, what does your internal, internal intuition go?
No, God would never do that.
That sounds insane.
So I would want to refrain from, because again, as a virtue ethicist, I
don't know the full circumstances of that to really say what I think God would do.
But I mean, I do say that that's what God did in a different way when it
comes to the Mosaic Covenant.
You do have certain stipulations to regulate in minimize polygamy, I would
say, in some, some aspects.
I mean, I say the narratives are meant to like sort of like attack polygamy, but
I mean, there is definitely that aspect in there.
But I still think polygamy is a sin.
I think divorce is a sin, but there's divorce laws in the Mosaic Covenant, for
example.
So I think there are these aspects with the Mosaic Covenant that were sort of
set up for their time.
And again, it's psychologically speaking, this is a far better way to get people
to, you know, advance through moral progress than it is to just sort of like,
this is the way it's got to be.
And you could compare this, for example, to like our attempts to spread democracy
to the Middle East and these places typically collapse back down into
dictatorships because the culture of that time is, is just not ready for a type
of like liberal democracy that we have.
And they tend to collapse quickly back into dictatorships a lot of ways.
So people need to be ready for certain actual moral aspects to be sort of
further along.
And sometimes we do need to implement moral progress with certain people.
If we want them to freely advance along, freely advance to a better place.
So I think real world, real world experience is a test of this.
I can give other examples if you want.
No, that, I think I understand what you're saying.
And, you know, like someone get me on a debate because like I, I, the job of
deep, I was talking to Josh, I don't know if it's yesterday, Dr.
Josh is like, my job on deep drinks is to try and understand the guest as best
as possible.
This is on a debate platform.
But man, I'd love to debate someone one day.
So someone can be on a debate because I want to come up with brutal opening statements.
Well, I mean, here's the thing I want to say.
Yeah, I, here's one thing I always ask people.
It's, I mean, I can look at historians like Samuel Moyne, Tom
Holland, uh, the book, uh, Christian Christianity, Human Rights and
Introduction Rary Chapter is a different author edited by John Witt.
And what I find a lot of historians saying is that Christianity was
crucial for ending slavery.
It very much was.
It's not the only factor that's in a slavery, but it was crucial in a lot of ways.
How is it that if the Bible is pro-slavery, why is it the book that was crucial for
ending slavery?
Oh, I, you said, it's, I, I would push back.
It's not the book that was instrumental.
It was the Christians.
I think Christianity is morphed into very, what's something that's very
different than, than what the Bible teaches.
Like you got prosperity gospel, gospel teachers.
You've got Greg Locke.
You've got like, you know, these are Christians, but they're not necessarily
following the stuff that's in the Bible.
Like, all right, let's pretend for, for, um, for a moment that we don't get our
morals from anywhere but the Bible.
Okay.
Me and you, we just, we have no, we, we have no idea.
Like, you know, if, if someone asks us if we can stab someone, we're like, we have
to go and find a verse on stabbing.
Like everything, our morals come from the Bible.
Okay.
Um, so how, how do you then argue against slavery?
Like what, what are you bringing up to say that slavery is wrong?
Okay.
Why would bring up a lot of the same, uh, verses that, you know, the Christian
abolitionists would use where it talks about freedom or about the letter of Philemon
that, you know, or Asians, for example, where it says, you know,
Yeah.
Give, give us some verses because the verses have to then negate what's being
talked about in the Old Testament where God is, because if you, if you were to
say slavery is wrong, right?
Forever and all eternity, it's objectively wrong.
Then you're saying that what God commanded in the past was wrong in which
you're there making a moral stance against God unless like Jesus came along and
like, you know, read, you know, read it like he did with, with divorce, but he
didn't do that with slavery.
So let's go to the New Testament, for example.
So a passage people always bring up to argue the Bible is pro-slavery is
Ephesians six, I believe.
Yeah.
Uh, so slaves obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling with sincere
heart as you would Christ, not by the way of eye services, people, pleasers, but
it's bond servants of Christ doing the will of God from your heart, rendering
service with good will as to the Lord and not to man, knowing that whatever you,
whatever good anyone does, this, you will receive back from the Lord, whether
he is a slave or is free.
And then verse nine says masters do to do the same to them and also stop
threatening them.
So everything that Paul just said that slaves should do for masters, masters
should also do for slaves.
So that sort of under, that sort of pulls one of the underlying principles, uh,
under, uh, underlying factors of the institution's slavery right off from under
it, this idea that, you know, there's the master and slave, Paul is basically
saying, do the same thing to each other.
We see this often unlike Galatians three or the letter of Philemon, for example.
Uh, so, I mean, like the abolitionists were not just pulling these ideas out of
thin air, wait, they were getting tested.
That seems like, so we have like XS 21 that like talks about how to beat your
slave, how to own slaves, how to release them up seven years.
We have like versus in juronomy that say, you know, you were to buy the slaves,
your slaves from the heathen around you, you to pass them on as inheritance to
your children.
And then the verse you, that you say negates all of this is, is what?
Like masters don't threaten your slaves.
That seems like a very first part of the first masters do the same to them.
Yeah, but that still acknowledges that slaves exist and masters exist.
So, so again, like back to, back to it, like if we just got our morals from the
Bible, how do we determine that slavery is wrong?
Like that's the institution of slavery or that owning someone as property is
like objectively wrong.
How do we do that?
Okay.
So again, you mentioned earlier that I talked about the Bible leading to the
abolition slavery.
You said, well, this is Christians coming up with things that are not from the
Bible, but from sort of like an evolved understanding of Christianity.
Um, like Christians might generally like get like a lot of their virtues,
like love and charity and kindness and stuff from the Bible, but then find that
conflicts with the instructions on slavery.
And so then they, they read in texts like Ephesians into toning a text in
Ephesians that talks about essentially being nice to your slaves to about
abolishing slavery, slavery, where I just, I just don't think that works.
If you, if you believe, sorry, if you believe that the Bible is inspired by God
or the perfect word of God, I don't think it works.
Okay.
Again, so I'm talking about the idea of moral progress here.
So in, in, in, in, um, respect to these verses that I'm bringing up.
So again, what Paul sort of does in Ephesians six is undermine the very idea
behind slavery.
If, if both have to be equal here, there's no reason for anyone to own one
another, because you have to basically be a servant to each other.
Uh, the idea of the same in Galatians three, like there's legal,
junior, Greek, free, nor slave, you're all one Christ, the letter of
Philemon as well, these general ideas.
And so like what historians like Tom Holland will note, it's this very
ideas they were getting from Christianity that led them to think, well,
wait a minute, if Paul said this, they were all equal, there, there's no reason
for slavery.
We, it shouldn't even exist because we're all the image of God.
We're all equal in Christ.
There is no basic way we could justify owning another human being with these
principles that are taught in the New Testament.
So this is why historians will note that the reason why we had the Christian
abolitionist movement, the reason why Christianity was crucial for any slavery
is because Christians were reading these verses and coming away with the idea.
These very principles laid out mean that slavery should not exist.
So I mean, there, it depends on what sort of aspects you're looking at.
You go to the Old Testament, I can grant you that.
But again, there's a lot of verses in the New Testament talk about the old
being fulfilled, like Hebrews seven, Hebrews eight, that it's already passing away
and it's going to be obsolete, these kinds of ideas.
So it's not like they're going to be drawing from those.
They're going to be drawing from the virtue ethics of the New Testament.
And they're going to be getting these basic ideas and going, well, this means
that we should end slavery.
And this is what the historical record points to.
It points to the idea that Christians were crucial for ending slavery.
Yeah.
I just, it just, like, it just very much feels like someone has this, like even
yourself, it seems like I'm psychoanalyzing here.
That's what I do best.
No, is that you have a subjective sense that slavery is wrong.
And then so you're reading in to the New Testament passages.
You will to be, let me push back on that, because every
conclusion world, like Aristotle, Seneca, new slavery was just a norm.
It just, it just was.
I mean, these are like, you know, the moral thinkers of the day.
Why do I have that intuitive sense that slavery is wrong?
I mean, Tom Holland says, John Witt says, we got it from basically Western
civilization being built from basically the foundations of Christianity and
imbueing these ideas that led to the rejection of slavery.
So, I mean, yeah, I can fully agree I have that intuition, but I mean, it's not
like, it's not like I'm just going to entirely redact the Bible.
I mean, people do read things into the Bible.
I agree.
But also biblical texts have influenced a lot of where we are today.
So the reason so many people were against slavery has a lot to do with
Christianity leading to this ideas, leading to the idea of human rights.
And in this sort of, you know, as Tom Holland says, basically infiltrating
and saturating the entire culture.
Yeah, yeah, we could turn this into a giant slavery stream, but I've got, I've
got a few things that I want to talk about as well.
But yeah, I appreciate your thoughts.
So the things that I noticed that you went over with in your documentary or in
your, in your video was correlation between religion and crime.
Religious, religious, religious, as a deterrent for crime, impact of
Christianity on mental health, Christianity and pro-social behavior, which
like talks about altruism, volunteering and charity work.
And then you talked a little bit about intrinsic and extrudic religiosity.
Could you just quickly give the audience a bit of a what's what of
intrinsic versus extrinsic religiosity and how you would define them?
Oh, I'm sorry you brought this up because this is an important distinction
people don't get.
So a lot of people will say like, like I hear Atheist say all the time, like,
we don't need Christianity for all these benefits because they just come
from people going to church and being part of social groups and having
a good, jolly old time.
That's all Christianity really does.
And we can have that without that nonsense.
And the extrinsic, intrinsic distinction shows that.
So this is, these are not terms I made up.
They come from sociology.
There's a lot of research done on this distinction.
It's the religious orientation scale.
So sometimes in studies, they'll make this distinction.
They'll have subjects take a religious orientation test.
Extrinsic religiosity is your religious for external factors.
You like going to church and being part of a social group.
It might be a family tradition.
You're just sort of there because of the extrinsic benefits associated with it.
Somebody who is intrinsically oriented goes to church or is religious
because they believe the core tenants of the faith.
They live their religion out.
They, they're there because they, in the case of Christianity,
they believe that Jesus really did rise from the dead.
He calls them to go to church.
He calls them to do good, this kind of stuff.
So the intrinsic extrinsic orientation.
Sometimes you'll see a third category, quest.
And the way I sort of describe that, the quest category is
people that basically say, I'm spiritual man, I'm not religious.
You know, you're sort of someone who's a seeker.
You're not really defined by religion.
That's kind of like you, right?
Yeah, I'm such a hippie.
I love, this is something that I just love.
I love trolling you a little bit.
Like, you know, it's just such a.
Yeah, so those are the three categories.
Quest category came out in the early 80s,
and intrinsic extrinsic has been a little longer.
I think 60s is when it came out, but I could be wrong.
So the benefits, typically when you do this kind of thing,
when you look at extrinsic versus intrinsic,
the benefits are mostly going to be tied to intrinsic.
So, you know, in my video, I cited a study
on the five big personality traits.
Intrinsic religiosity was associated with agreeableness,
conscientiousness and extroversion.
Extrinsic religiosity was negatively correlated with these.
I think some of them are not significant, though.
Said another study from 2010 on racism
found that intrinsic religiosity was not significant,
although it was slightly negative in terms of correlating racism,
but it was still in the non-significant range.
Extrinsic religiosity and fundamentalism
were associated with more racism.
So we in this comes up in numerous studies, like divorce.
I mentioned like pro-social.
So did you say extrinsic?
I know it's annoying.
Extrinsic.
Is associated with a greater amount of racism, is that what you're saying?
Extrinsic religiosity was associated with more racism.
So was fundamentalism, for example.
Fundamentalism sometimes is a factor that shows up in sociology.
And it's I've seen it defined differently,
but typically it's like a strict literal adherence to religion.
You have to take everything the Bible says kind of literally.
You're very fanatic in terms of how you interpret things.
It's a specific category, not true as traditional religion would be.
It'd be more like Westboro Baptist type folk.
And it's just kind of complex at times.
But so that's another factor.
But yeah, typically the benefits like self-control,
pro-social behavior, racism, these prejudice as well.
I mean, these are all tied.
The benefits that we get from sociology
are typically going to be tied to intrinsic religiosity.
Extrinsic religiosity can actually be negatively associated with positive benefits.
So it's not just going to urge it's not just doing, you know, Christianity.
Yeah, like the the the Proud Boys, they're like they pray at the start
of their like white supremacist rallies and stuff.
Yeah. But OK, so how how many maybe have numbers on this?
How many extrinsic intrinsic?
Oh, my God, I can't talk.
This whiskey's getting to me.
You could say the eye orientation or E orientation, because that's another way.
Yeah. OK. I.O.E.
How much do you think is I and how much do you think is E percentage?
I have a question.
I've not really seen sir.
I've looked for surveys and I asked sociologists about it.
No one's really done that.
It's hard to do that because you need a lot of people to take
large amount of like these religious tests so they can rate someone if they're
if they're E or I, they're going to fall on that scale.
I don't know.
It's really hard to say in terms of the general population, how much is either or.
When I was a Christian, we just call the E types.
We just call them like non-Christians or lukewarm Christians or or Sunday Sunday
Christians or and you know, I didn't think I thought a large proportion
of my church was not truly saved.
I thought they weren't they probably weren't going to make the cut.
I thought Jesus would say, turn away from me.
I never knew you. You who practice lawlessness.
I thought that was their demise.
But you've got to understand that for someone outside of religion, outside of
a religious nomination, a religious thinking, they're all the same.
This this this just religious folks and non-religious folks or Christian folks,
non-Christian folks.
So this like atheists don't make this like distinction between extrinsic and intrinsic.
And when you know, I interview a lot of people and when I interview people
and obviously this is anecdotal and this is totally confirmation bias
because the majority of people I bring on share a similar past to me
where they've left religion, not all the time, but sometimes.
But the overwhelming majority of time, I am hearing harm come from religion
and it could be extrinsic, intrinsic.
Hey, I said it right.
So like like if I've just gotten a list of things, right?
And I'll just I'll just quickly get through them.
I'll just quickly quickly read them.
And these are the things that and just tell me and we can we can discuss this.
And I imagine this will take up the last part of the interview.
And if anyone has super chats, make sure to post them
because we will because we'll get to them at the end.
And we've got like a time limit and I don't want to go over.
But so when we look at, you know, rational sex education,
the the groups that I see pushing back against that who want absence,
only sex education are usually Christian groups or religious groups.
It could be Muslim as well.
But let's just in the US, for example, it's usually is Christian LGBT, right?
People fighting against surrogacy, marriage equality.
They tend to be Christian or they tend to be religious Muslim.
But usually, at least in the US and in Australia,
because the Christian majority is large proportioned Christians who are against that.
I couldn't think of any other reason why you'd be against that, besides
some religious conviction, the fear of hell that I see comes up only from religion,
religious trauma, like it's being discussed whether it's going to be in the DSM six.
But there's a whole category that some psychologists use for people
who have exited high control religions and experience
what they call what they call religious trauma.
Now, again, it's on the DSM five or DSM five, and it might be in the DSM six.
Every conspiracy theorist, I know every single one of them is a Christian,
like every single one of them, every flat earth, I know is a Christian.
Yeah, every every every literally I have friends who are like in the Christian bookstore
and they can hear across the across the anti-vaxxer talk.
How I mean, you've seen my tech talk.
I respond to atheists, conspiracy theorists all the time.
Like, sorry, this idea counts, I don't know.
See, Tim O'Neill just in a video on this. Come on.
Yeah, OK. No, I actually actually there's that there's that camp as well.
Sorry, I forget there's like the aliens built the pyramid camp of conspiracy theorists,
which is which is definitely more like they could be atheistic.
There could be more of that quest like spiritual.
I'm spiritual, bro. They're like that type of like.
Quest person. Yeah, yeah.
You know, but people who are, you know, QAnon
tend tends to be technically pretty Christian.
I can't talk. I'm sorry, guys, I can't talk today.
Gender inequality seems to be getting pushed back from Christians.
And you might have reasons for why you like this or don't like this.
Resistance to scientific understanding, like tell me a young
earth creationist organization that isn't Christian in the US or or that isn't
Islamic conversion therapy is an almost exclusive
Christian phenomenon, slavery.
Obviously, we've talked about that.
And like so another one last thing is like, so do you remember?
Hang on, let me just let me just bring this up quickly.
I'm going to share share this.
Do you remember this interview?
It's a meme, not a meme. We love a meme.
We bring in the studio.
One of the gay activists.
Can you hear it?
We play the whole thing.
I think I think we remember this.
All right, so could you do you know?
Can you hear it, though?
It's just the why are you gay?
Yeah, yeah, all right.
We bring in the studio this morning.
One of the gay rights activists, Mr.
Should I call you, Mr.
Pepe Julian on Zima.
Thank you for coming in.
Good morning.
Why are you gay?
You are gay.
You are transgender.
What shows that I'm gay?
You are transgender and you are gay rights activists
and an outspoken lesbian homoset show.
How can I describe you?
Now, we're looking at the raging debate.
You are gay rights activists.
Why should someone be gay?
You have in the girlfriend.
Yes.
Do you perform the natural obligations?
I'm more sexually active right now.
So what do you mean by choice?
By choice.
I've just not I've chosen not to engage.
Doesn't that make you gay?
Why do you mean doesn't that make me gay?
I am I am male and attracted to a female.
So who is gay?
Yeah, so absolute banger of a of a clip.
So I look at a lot of people don't know this,
but I actually interviewed Pepe.
Really? Yeah, I've been in contact with him.
He's he runs an organization called Sexual.
He helps organize a group called Sexual Minorities Uganda.
So he's a trans man and
and Uganda just introduced some so so I interviewed him.
Sorry, you can go watch the interview on my patron.
I was asked not to.
It's not publicly available, partly because.
Uganda introduced some same sex.
Some some laws.
So you get life imprisonment for homosexual acts.
You get for attempted homosexual acts,
you get imprisonment of 10 years.
You can get the death penalty for aggregated homosexuality.
So aggregated homosexuality just means can can just mean
doing it more than once and for an attempted
aggravated homosexual, it's imprisonment of 14 years.
Now, this is very frustrating to someone like Pepe,
because Pepe in his in his, you know, original tribe,
they had trend.
They had a third gender.
They had trans trans was a normal thing.
Homosexuality was normal thing.
You know, Uganda had a bisexual king
and it wasn't until just reading from the Wikipedia page.
I know like I didn't go get the primary research,
but this like this is what Pepe told me as well.
But Kenya, Rwanda, Buranda, male homosexual populations
were acknowledged and tolerated in pre-colonial Ugandan society.
And conservative evangelical Christian missionaries
have had a significant influence on the passage of anti LGBT
legislation in Uganda.
So we have my friend Pepe, who literally is like
if he identifies, if he if he's like outwardly known as
as being trans, he'll be arrested in the streets
and taken to prison for 10 years, possibly the death penalty.
He married his partner in another state.
But it's like, you know, we couldn't even broadcast that interview.
And these are the real world tangible effects
of the harm of Christianity.
And you'll say that that's like, oh, my God, extrinsic,
extrinsic Christianity, extrinsic religiosity.
But this is the stuff that I see over and over again.
And I just so yeah, like so there's a lot to deal with.
What do you think about that?
So there's there's a lot I want to say there.
So let's start with just the base.
And I want to if we can, I want to bring up that study
I mentioned the other day with you. Yeah, sure.
So and I can bring up some other ones as well.
So let's talk about something called the fundamental attribution error.
So if you and I were working at the same company
and we hated each other and let's say you always
came in late for work, I would probably be like,
well, yeah, that's what atheism does to your brain.
It makes you lazy, you know, people don't want to actually come to work.
They have no reason for living, yada, yada, yada.
But if I came in late for work one day, I'd like,
well, that wasn't because of Christianity, it's because traffic.
Or, you know, I didn't get my coffee or my alarm didn't go off.
It's kind of nonsense.
This is an attribution error when we attribute, for example,
people that are not of our ideological tribe,
we attribute their behavior to their ideology or their beliefs.
But we don't do that for our own tribe or our own beliefs.
So we constantly will say, look at those Christians
or those atheists doing something over there.
That's because we attribute that's because of their beliefs specifically.
And it's not because of other circumstantial issues.
And when it comes to our own tribe, we will often just attribute it
to circumstantial issues, not ideology.
Now, I hear what you're saying, though, you're saying this idea that look,
but they're saying they're doing it because of the Bible, these kinds of things.
OK, well, let me let me give an analogy here.
So in 2015, Penn Gillette, you know, Penn Gillette is right.
No. Penn and Teller, do you know Penn and Teller?
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I don't know who he is.
He's Penn.
He's Penn Gillette from Penn and Teller.
He wrote an article in 2015 in The New York Times
called atheism should end religion, not replace it.
And so he's also said some other things, sort of like this idea.
I've seen Dawkins say some similar things.
Let's say there was an atheist who read this article, read a lot of what Penn said
and said, yes, atheism should end religion.
Therefore, I'm going to go out and shoot up a church.
And he does.
Could we say that Penn Gillette's article or his writings
caused this man to go shoot up a church?
Or could we say that's not what Penn meant.
You took this guy took him out of context
because he didn't understand the full picture.
He just saw some snippets of something he liked and he interpreted to be violence.
If if Penn, it'd be a fine line.
But like this this this goes down to like, you know, the January 6th stuff.
It's like, you know, how how implicit, how implicit was Trump on that stuff?
But say if Penn was like, we should violently take it back or these people
should be killed or Christians should be wiped off the face of the earth.
If you use like terminology like that, then yeah, I'd say you could.
OK, but he didn't use that terminology.
He just said atheism should end religion, not replace it.
So like if he said that, then then I would say that it's it's less a problem.
Yeah, so sometimes people will hear certain things
and they will interpret misinterpret.
They'll take things too far.
You know, so another example, Nathan Johnstone, who is an atheist.
He wrote a book called The New Atheism.
He says this in his book.
He says the oppression of believers by atheists and in the name of atheism
itself is simply an historical fact.
So he's talking about the totalitarian regimes.
He goes and he has a whole chapter on how the Soviet Union had the militant
the League of Militant Atheists and their entire goal was to eradicate
religion in the name of like a state atheism, godless society.
And so but what did he says?
He says this doesn't mean atheism caused this.
But people have died in the name of atheism.
People have committed horrible things in an attempt to get rid of religion.
But that doesn't mean the atheist ideology, as we know,
it necessarily caused this just because people have done bad things
in the name of atheism.
Likewise, people do bad things in the name of Christianity all the time.
That doesn't mean Christianity is necessarily the cause.
We got to be very cautious from looking at bivariate analyses where we say,
let's look at a country in this country, there's Christians.
And also there's a high murder rate.
Hmm, coincidence.
Yeah, likely, because there's we need to do a multivariate analysis.
We need to have robustness checks.
This is why we rely on sociological studies to find what the actual factors are.
For example, in my video is Christianity harmful.
I know research does show Christianity is associated with more LGBTQ prejudice.
However, studies done in the US and Brazil have shown that it's only associated.
It's probably not a driving factor, because when you factor in things like
right wing authoritarianism and traditionalism, they explain the whole relationship.
And even when you when you factor those things in,
religiosity is actually negatively associated with prejudice.
So it's just associated on the surface level.
When you actually dive into the research, it doesn't seem like the religious
aspects are causing this.
And this is why I also brought up that study that I said to you yesterday.
What are the unpacking yesterday to unpacking the drivers of LGBTQ legislation?
So they say, and this is in the Journal of Homosexuality.
I swear, I just read the Journal of Homosexuality for educational reasons.
It's not for any other reason.
Don't make any insinuation.
Do they have pitches?
No, no, no, they don't.
No, but this is a very recent study.
Do you want to bring it up?
Do you want to bring the study up?
Or because I have some comments to make.
I have some comments to make or you can share it if you want.
You can present it.
OK, let me just present them.
But but but I do have a comment to make after after this.
OK, so here. Unpacking.
So yeah, so this is from the study and this is in the results.
They say the analysis fails to find support for the hypothesis.
That's the other quote I thought was interesting.
But OK, here it is.
So regarding the main setbacks for the promotion of LGBTQ rights,
the empirical results suggest that religious affiliation can act as a cultural
constraint in countries where Islamism, Hinduism or Buddhism are the most
followed religions. Contrarily,
religious affiliation does not seem to be constraining LGBT plus legislation
in Christian majority countries.
And so they basically are arguing that, yeah,
religiosity can be a constraint, but not really.
That's not what we're showing up in Christianity.
And this correlates with the other research I cited in my video is Christianity
harmful, that Christian religiosity is not a driving factor for prejudice.
There are other factors in society which account for it.
You see, I would argue here that just because
yeah, just because legislation in Christian majority countries
is not being constrained doesn't mean that there's not an attempt by the Christians
to constrain it.
I agree with that.
Yeah, OK, because here's the thing.
Yeah, so you finish your thought. Sorry.
Well, my thought, my thought is this whiskey is really hammering me to me.
It's 11 in the morning, so it's really hammering me today.
So my thoughts are scattered.
But some.
No, I've got Scottish heritage as well.
Oh, you've got no excuses for you.
Yeah. Yeah.
So like when, you know, a big part of my deconstruction was seeing my friend,
my friends be
be, I guess,
lied to and persecuted by the church when the marriage of same sex,
the same sex marriage plebiscite was happening.
And I was debating a lot of people on Facebook and things like that.
And I remember talking to my ex-youth pastor's wife and she said
that she's not going to tell me how to vote, but she went away and prayed for it.
And God told her how to vote.
Now, it's my inclination that God told her to vote against same sex marriage.
Now, it's just an assumption, but I'd say it's a pretty.
I'd say it's almost 100 percent.
So my question would be, you say, let's say there's an intrinsic
Christian, an intrinsic like an intrinsically religious, someone who is
like a man after God's own heart, a woman of God, and they pray.
Do you think that they're going to come to the conclusion that they should
vote for marriage equality or do you think they should uphold traditional marriage values?
I don't know. I don't know the people.
I don't know what they're praying.
I don't think I don't believe we pray to God and God is going to give us answers.
Like we're going to audibly hear him or like hear a voice in our heads kind of thing.
I think that's a more fundamentalist,
dependant, like charismatic understanding of prayer that I just don't find in the Bible.
So it's a weird analogy.
I don't know.
Well, like, do you think, well, just like if there was a like a private vote,
do you think most Christians, intrinsic Christians would vote for marriage equality
or do you think they would vote?
Like, how would you vote?
Well, I like to keep my politics completely private.
But I mean, I'll always say I'm definitely more of a libertarian in terms of a lot of things.
Yeah. Yeah.
Back then, my argument was always I've never I've never known for us to
legislate Christian values than adds to more people getting saved.
I don't I don't see that would ever work.
Well, let me let me I didn't want to comment on one thing you say.
So you said like Christians are doing this.
I agree Christians are can be quite prejudice, can persecute people,
can be quite rude and disrespectful.
The question is, is that coming from their intrinsic religiosity,
the specific variable of Christianity?
You know, for example, there was a couple of years ago,
a vegan went up and shot the headquarters of YouTube and like I saw all this stuff
on Twitter after about, yeah, that's what veganism does to your brain.
Kind of like, no, I mean, just because a vegan may attack a farmer,
that does not mean veganism is what drove them to be violent.
We cannot just say we cannot do this sort of attribution error.
We just go with people and we go, oh, yes, that one variable,
the one variable I like to blame is the one that's actually the cause.
People are complex.
There are multiple variables going on and motivating factors.
And sometimes we don't even know our own motivating factors for why we do things.
You know, some people might say like the reason why I, you know, hit my wife,
like some nut job said that it would be because she didn't make me dinner.
Or maybe it's because, you know, you had a very abusive childhood
and that actually would cause you to be abusive.
It has nothing to do with her.
Sometimes we just attribute motivating ideas wrong.
So this is why we need sociology, psychology to study these kinds of things
to know where the associations are.
What are the most likely causes in this case?
And so, for example, John Witt writing in Christianity and Human Rights
and Introduction notes that in line with the study you just had on the screen,
that Christianity was very crucial for bringing about human rights,
the idea of religious freedom, the idea of equality,
the idea of using more fairness in government,
the idea of separation of church and state.
And I think this is why we see Christian nations being the leaders among
when it comes to Islamic Buddhists, you name it, any other sort of nations.
In terms of giving equal rights,
is there going to be pushback from Christians in those nations?
Absolutely.
But it's hard to say that that's going to necessarily going to be the motivating
factor when the sociology doesn't bear that out, when the experts weigh in and
they go, well, you know, probably not.
There seems to be some other issues going on here, like right wing authoritarianism,
which tends to rise up for people on the right among unchurched people
who identify as Christians.
So they become unchurched.
They start reinterpreting religious symbols in terms of a political ideology.
And then we get things like Christian nationalism.
We get things like right wing authoritarianism.
When it comes to more churched individuals,
it doesn't seem to be correlating well.
So I fail to see that the actual data is going to bear that out.
And again, there's also the historical case that scholars like Tom
Holler and John Whit have made that Christianity leads to more human rights,
leads to more equality over time.
And we see this bearing out in the data now.
It seems to be the case that that the church is becoming more accepting of,
in general, seems to be more accepting of LGBT rights.
But again, I would, LGBT folks, but I would, again,
argue that that seems to be not because of what the Bible teaches,
but because of, I guess, social norms.
Well, where do the social norms come from, though?
I mean, I don't know.
I'm not a sociologist, but like I know that like we talked about this last time
we talked about morality, like, where does morality come from?
And I kind of hold the perspective that morality is subjective
and that we kind of build what's right and wrong based on.
Well, I don't mean it.
I will grant you that for the sake of this conversation,
but where do the subjective and social norms come from, though?
I mean, this is one of Holler's points is that they came from Christianity
saturating the culture and making people think more about quality.
Aristotle was wrong in this kind of way that, you know,
the man is just not the head and then the wife, the slaves and the children
are just like his to do every box.
Like they're just extensive extensions of his own body is these people
have fundamental rights.
They are also the image of God is we need to grant them these kinds of rights.
I mean, this is what, again, as I mentioned, the one book, Christianity
and human rights introduction, as well as Samuel Moyn's book, Christian human rights.
I think that's the name of the book.
I know sometimes I forget the titles of books, but it's Samuel Moyn's book.
Let me look that up really make make sure I get the title rights.
I don't want to misrepresent his book.
Yeah, Christian human rights by Samuel Moyn.
Hmm.
But here's my basic point is that I see a lot of people criticizing the Bible
and that this is not even a point that I got.
This is a point that Tom Holland makes people criticize the Bible with the very
ethics they got from the Christian culture that the Bible led to.
So it's like people sort of run, say the Bible is bad because of this.
But I mean, if you go take the ethics of the ancient Romans and the Greeks,
they were nowhere near where we think they thought slavery was the norm.
They thought they were better than the barbarians in terms of just ontology.
They thought women should be second class citizens.
They use children for sex.
I mean, this is the children were for.
I mean, John Martins wrote a chapter in a book called Do not sexually
harass children where Christians came up with new terms to accuse the Pagans
for what they were doing to children and why it was wrong.
And we need to get rid of this standard thing you've been doing for centuries,
this kind of thing.
There was a lot of ways that I think people have overlooked the way
Christianity has saturated the culture.
How can you attribute, like, good things to Christianity, but not the bad?
I will let let's let's hear.
Here's can I bring up a slide?
Actually, I will I will make a point this way.
So I this is a point I made in my debate with our raw.
I don't know if you ever saw that debate with him.
I did. And I watched about half of it.
And I appreciated that you guys that you said you were drinking whiskey.
And and I appreciated that you guys
because I watched that and I was like, fuck, I was got him.
And then I watched what you said.
And I was like, fuck, Michael's got it.
I think you both had pretty good points, actually.
Anyway, all right.
No, that's not my screen.
It's right wrong screen.
OK, let me let me show the right screen.
OK, let me bring up slides.
I have my slides.
Oh, there they are.
They just showed up.
They took a second to show up.
OK, so this is a slide I've commonly used here.
This is basically the point I've made in the past.
If you want to show Christianity leads to something harmful,
there's an easy way to do this.
And I've seen atheists criticize this point in certain ways,
which I'll push back on in a minute.
So basically, it's like, look,
if you want to say that Christianity leads to harm,
there's an easy way to do it.
The Bible says X most Christians
mean interpret X to mean why most.
So you interpret X to mean why the most Christians also agree with that.
Why at least a dangerous effects?
Now, some atheists have told me this is this reasoning doesn't work
because it's just too complicated.
Well, I could do this quite easily with Islam.
So in the in the Quran, polygamy is allowed.
Polygamy is endorsed in the hadiths.
Polygamy is definitely endorsed.
So in the Islamic Corpus, polygamy is allowed and endorsed.
Most Muslims interpret this to mean polygamy is allowed and endorsed.
OK, actual meta analysis done within the past few years
have shown that polygamy leads to extreme harm for women and children,
leads to mental disorders, leads to all sorts of harm within the family.
Polygamy is just not good for women.
It's it's just a way to oppress them.
And it's horrible.
So I can easily show.
Look, Quran says polygamy is OK and says you should actually
you can have up to four wives if you want.
Most Muslims interpret this to mean that, yes,
you can have up to four wives and it's a good thing.
And it actually leads to harm.
So if you want so in turn, if you want to say Christianity leads
to leads to harm, do it the same way.
Show me a place in the Bible where it says like take an Old Testament verse.
OK, it says, you know, to do this to a slave.
Most Christians don't interpret that as an actual command for them.
They understand this as part of the old the old covenant
that was fulfilled in the new.
They are now under the stipulations of the new covenant.
So they're not going to interpret it as a command for them.
So it's harder to say they did for the longest time they did.
That's like we could go historic.
We could like talk about historical.
I'm really bad at history, but like historically,
the Bible was used as justification for slavery for the longest time.
Yeah, the Bible has been now all sorts of things.
I mean, I guess.
So all right, here, I guess what I'm kind of getting.
So would you would you argue that we should
try and reduce the negative aspects of Christianity
while encouraging the positive aspects of Christianity?
Or would you say I would say Christianity?
Well, I mean, I'm a Christian, I would say that it's basically
the the idea of the most the most optimal form of human flourishing.
Well, just because just because something is good for society
doesn't mean it's necessarily true or false.
There's no bearing on why I would.
I don't know if it was a little I agree.
But yeah, so so like it could be the case.
Like I made the argument once to a friend who was suffering that
like you were going along a train, you're in a train.
And then like and you decided to step off that train
and walk through the mud with Jesus.
Like when did you forget who you're walking with?
That's what I essentially argued, because I essentially made the argument
that the Christian life sometimes is suffering, that you'd be persecuted by the world,
you'd be hurt by what you'd be, you know, tormented by sins or whatever,
that that a lot of people just will a lot of people might last over someone
and not fight back against it.
And so I use the analogy that being a Christian was actually taking up
the cross daily, it was walking through the mud with Jesus.
But but so in some instances, that could be detrimental for society.
Like that could like people could be harmed from Christianity,
but then they get repaid in the afterlife or something like that could still work
under a Christian worldview.
So like as far as a Christian worldview goes.
Like, do you think there are any negative like
of all the things I mentioned, you know, sex education, that's primarily
like there's no secular organization pushing back against like pushing back
and saying, no, we need to have absence only sex education.
There's no Christian organized, no secular organization
promoting conversion therapy.
These are strictly Christian or sometimes Muslim, but we won't talk about Muslims.
I mean, like I don't want to make this political.
So I'm trying really out to use counter examples where I could say
atheist organizations are doing things that I would say are harmful.
If you want, I mean, I would say that there's no Christian organization
saying that we should transition children.
We should give hormone blockers to children.
There's no Christian organization pushing for extreme individualism.
This idea that, you know, people should just have the ability to do
whatever they want, regardless of what how it hurts their well.
Hang on. Can we just put on the brakes?
That first point, the the data shows that it's the best course of action.
And you shouldn't like that in that way.
That that maybe we shouldn't talk about this
because I'm a little dry. That's why I didn't want to do it.
Like, so here's the thing.
Let me just go back to my main point then.
OK, so again, you can do this by very analysis kind of thing.
Like I see Christians doing thing I think is bad.
Therefore, Christian because I'm going to go back
and say that's an attribution error, you brought up slavery earlier.
And the point I was trying to get at is like, yes,
we know Christians have used the Bible to justify slavery.
However, again, slavery was the standard norm.
Everyone thought slavery was just the absolute cultural norm
until somehow Christians out of the blue say, no, no, we should abolish this.
And for example, when they went to, for example, places like Morocco,
the Muslims were actually sort of like like confused as to why they would go
against something that was just so standard and goes back to ancient Rome
and Greece and just in every culture.
So when people say Christians use the Bible to promote slavery,
they go, everyone was promoting slavery.
That's just what people did.
They would find any way to adjust.
And all of a sudden, the reason why we're now abolitionists,
the reason why we're all against slavery, what changed?
Well, the only thing we can really point to in history
that was the main driving factor is going to be these Christians
who were so convinced that the slave, the the downtrodden was also the image of God.
And he had fundamental human rights that he was equal in Christ.
And therefore, this entire institution should be abolished.
I mean, you just can't.
Would you argue the persecution of witches was primarily a Christian phenomenon?
No, no.
And I will I can even quote Nathan Johnson to say it was definitely not a Christian phenomenon.
Do you want me to?
Yeah, but this is this is so confusing to me because like King James literally
like when like when King James, you know, guy commissioned the Bible,
was giving out the sentence was was talking, I guess, to the jury.
He was he was quoting the Bible saying, like, we know he was like the jury
actually had let off this Margaret, forgot her last name, but had let off someone.
And then King James got there and was like, this is ridiculous.
The Bible says X, Y, Z and she was burnt to the stake.
I think burnt or hung.
I can't. I don't know.
But they you know, but yeah, I mean, well, so I win.
No, but but but but, you know, the Bible is used.
It's been like you can't.
I just don't understand how you can argue that the Bible has been used
as a tool to persecute witches, persecute, persecute homosexuals,
persecute trans folks, persecute like women.
You don't think that it has been used at least, right?
I would say I'm not denying it has been used by my art.
My my my position is that that's not the actual motivating factor,
because the sociology and historians will push back and say that can't be the
motivating factor. So Nathan Johnstone, for example, you know,
in his book, The New Atheism says this, he says, well, I hit the wrong link there.
He says, between the end of the Roman Empire in the late 12th century,
torture had fallen into disuse in Europe.
Christendom owed its re reintroduction not to blood thirsty clerics,
but to scientific jurists concerned to free justice from the reliance on God's
intervention and a championed human judicial competence in both medieval
Europe and modern day America. Then societies that had abandoned torture
contemplated its reintroduction as a rational necessity.
But the medieval story, the one for which we know the ending,
recounts the failure of rationalism to control its own offspring.
You can see this, for example, in the Lombard law, the Lombard laws
from the first millennia says that, you know, witchcraft just doesn't exist.
So if someone is accused of witchcraft, it doesn't even make sense
because witches don't exist. So we see the first millennia
when Christianity starts to take hold of Europe, torture falls off.
The introduction of this this rational jurisprudence idea,
this idea of giving justice to scientific jurists,
this is where the reintroduction of torture is most likely coming from.
The question, the reason the historians say this is,
why is it not showing up in high degree in the first millennia
when Christianity starts to take over?
Why is it showing up at a much later period when this idea,
this quest for more rationalism starts to show up as well?
So, I mean, again, Tom Holland notes about this.
I've seen other historians talk about this.
There's a book I have.
It's called The Worlds of Medieval Europe.
I can grab it if you want.
He talks about the same idea there.
It's not this idea that it's coming from Christianity.
Did they use torture to justify, like they use Christianity to justify their torture?
Well, of course, they're going to they're going to find whatever they can to justify it.
That doesn't mean it's necessarily the motivating factor.
Just like with the idea I mentioned earlier,
when John Stunt said that people have died in the name of atheism,
that doesn't mean that atheism was the motivating factor.
People were using their visions of a godless utopia in the USSR to further this agenda.
It wasn't not bear atheism is not necessarily going to be the actual cause.
Hmm, I think I I think I agree.
But in somewhat, but I I just don't think we have enough time to
to to kind of push back because I want to I want to touch on one last thing.
We've got some super chats as well.
OK, you remember the video that you I was just talking about.
Do you remember the video that you produce called that you reference seven days
that divided the world?
It was like that was many millions ago.
It was it was it's I don't even I don't even hold to this stuff.
I say that anymore.
So that was like, oh, really?
It was over a decade ago.
No, I I I don't I don't.
Yeah, I don't take that view.
It was like the first year I started doing videos.
So yeah, you know, I did.
So so so that was actually the first video that I watched of yours.
So I remember waking up at a friend's house and randomly I had a lot of anxiety
for some reason, just out of the blue about evolution and creationism.
I still Christian time and I looked it up and I found your video
and it relieved my anxiety like crazy.
And I went looking for ages.
Like I was like, who was that guy?
Like later after I deconstructed and but and I rewatched it.
What I liked about that video is you you you kind of presented it like
this is what the world says evolution, you know, happened.
But we can read Genesis like this if we want to, right?
This is like how you kind of pop language.
And I really that's that's what I really appreciate it.
But what I've seen and not just with you, but with a lot of apologetics,
I guess, since then and maybe this is a bias on my behalf, my behalf,
but apologetics seems to run like a car salesman lot.
Right. There's like the Islam camp.
There's the Christian camp, Christian like cars.
If I walk into a car salesman lot and probably you can hear
Atlas screaming in the background, apologies for that.
But if I walk into a car.
Apologize for a screaming child.
That's that's that's the music of God right there.
You should enjoy it.
I'll take them and bash them against the stones.
Right. But happy.
Because how dare so.
So if I walk into a car lot, the person is never going to
like he's always going to suggest that I'm he or she's always going
to suggest that I purchase a car.
They're never going to say, hey, maybe you don't need a car.
Maybe this car isn't right for you.
They always they'll always find a way to make it work.
And this seems to be the case with apologetics.
And I just want to get you to weigh in on this before we jump into some superchats.
But it seems like there seems to be a really straightforward
interpretation of a text and it conflicts with the apologists.
Already determined Christian worldview.
So then they will make up a way to make those two fit.
So for example, slavery is like something we've talked about.
You have these internal things like all slavery is obviously not right.
And then you'll find a way to make it work.
When if you just read the text as historical text and you go,
maybe this wasn't from God, maybe these were just some folks who believed in the God.
You know, it makes total sense.
It makes total sense that that everyone around the ancient Near East is doing slavery.
The Israelites are going to have their own version of laws around slavery.
Like that it makes it makes sense from a natural, naturalist perspective.
The same thing with LGBT rights, the same thing with everything we're talking about.
And a big one is the same thing with when I did a whole video on myth vision about this.
But when Jesus said, I tell you the truth, this generation will not pass away
until they see all these things happen.
And when all these things are the coming of Son of Man and the clouds,
great famines, earthquakes and, you know, God returning the trumpets and everything.
There is a lot of ways that you can hand wave that away.
You can say it did happen.
It happened in the 60s, the CE or whatever.
Like some, I think, Preterist Jew or something, I can't remember.
And then there were other people like yourself who will say
that was a prophecy from Jesus and it didn't it wasn't fulfilled.
Like the prophecy, prophecies don't have the aren't like fortune telling into the future.
They just it just it was prophecy that wasn't fulfilled
because we didn't preach the gospel to all of them.
That's what you would say, right?
I would say that prophecies are conditional and there were certain stipulations
in that prophecy that were have not been fulfilled.
Therefore, the aspect of the return of Son of Man has been delayed
in line with the typical cultural context of the time.
So I cited a lot of.
Yeah, much more educated and smarter way of saying saying it.
But essentially, so my issue is and I want to get you to weigh in on this is.
Like, is there ever going to be anything that you discover that goes, huh,
maybe this is manmade, or is there always going to be a way
that you and or any other apologists can find a way to make something work?
And does that bother you?
I mean, I've said before, if you want to convince me it's manmade,
come up with a better explanation for the resurrection.
This has been my sticking sticking point.
Uh, Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15
that if Christ has not been raised from the dead, this is all pointless.
So and this is why I think there are versions.
Sorry, there are versions of Christianity who do
accept that Jesus rose for the dead, but reject the Old Testament.
Like Marcian was a great example of that.
They, they, you know, Marcian was like, so, so like.
I you also don't remember Marcian basically gutted the New Testament and said,
like, oh, yeah, what Paul was saying here is wrong.
Let's get rid of Matthew, Mark.
We'll keep some of Luke and we'll get rid of John's kind of thing.
So that's the first count, baby.
Well, there's a lot more complexity there.
Let's be honest.
I mean, yeah, of course, you know, so I mean, like that's the thing.
This is why I've had debate specifically on if Jesus was buried,
because a lot of atheists don't even think Jesus was buried.
I love having that debate because I feel like this is a good place for me to show
that I don't think that atheists are being consistent with the actual evidence
laid out here and go from there.
But look, let's look at this for more of a objective standpoint.
I feel it to be to be honest, you kind of gishgallop there.
And there's a lot of accusations thrown out about like, well, yeah,
it was a big old gishgallop.
Yeah. Yeah.
A lot of things actually were sort of like handwaving things away
and just trying to make it fit.
OK, if that's what's going on, everyone does that for their own world.
Everyone does that for their politics.
I saw let's I'll take American politics as an example.
I saw when Obama was president, Republicans were losing their mind.
Because how could you elect a narcissist into the White House?
How dare you?
The moment the moment Trump was a nominee, he's yeah, he's a little narcissistic.
But I mean, like, you gotta like people made excuses when when in the 2000
in the early 2000s, the Democrat Party was vehemently anti-war.
The moment Obama gets in, the anti-war protests just stop.
People did all sorts of, you know, convoluted loopholes
to justify the political positions they want to.
So I'll use that as an example.
So that's all I'm doing.
That's all everyone is doing for the worldview.
You're accusing me of handwaving things the way in the Bible that I don't like.
I could just accuse you of taking the least charitable interpretation
of the biblical text so it fits with a naturalistic worldview.
And it doesn't it doesn't actually lend credence to the idea
Christianity could be true.
I did a video a while ago called our Christian scholars bias.
And basically, there's documented evidence that researchers
like George Yancey have done the shows.
There is actually what he calls Christianophobia in academia.
There is actual documented evidence of bias against the Christian worldview
in academia, and I'm not just making that up.
This is actually been shown.
That seems to be the case from just a big scene.
There we go.
So maybe maybe it's not so much that we're just handwaving things we don't like.
Maybe there is a precedence in academia to reject the general Christian worldview
so people can fit in with their academic peers.
Now, I don't want to go down that road.
I don't want to go down that road.
The road I just said, I prefer to go on that road.
Yeah, I think the evidence via the evidence.
But if you're going to start if someone, I won't say you just if someone's
going to start accusing me, you're just trying to make things fit.
Blah, blah, blah, to fit your apologetic worldview.
OK, that's what everyone's doing.
And maybe that's also happening in academia with this anti-Christian bias.
I prefer to just debate the evidence, but if that's what we want to do,
that's what we want to do.
At the end of the day, everyone is going to be an apologist for their own worldview.
Everyone is going to have difficult aspects of their own worldview.
They need to explain.
And here's one thing I would say.
Some some worldviews are more coherent than others, even though every worldview
has problems in it.
So I could say, yeah, maybe some verses you bring up.
They're a little bit harder for me to explain.
But it's because I have a much larger worldview
that I think encompasses far more of the data, has more
explanatory scope and explanatory power and can explain things in other areas
far better than your worldview can.
You would disagree.
You would say your worldview can explain more data.
And even though you would admit there are some rough edges here and there,
you would think that it covers more in other areas.
That's why you hold to it.
Yeah, of course, that's where I would push back in that way.
Yeah, and I appreciate you pushing back because I've done a lot of pushing
and you haven't pushed back enough, in my opinion.
But just before we get into the chat,
like, I would agree with you somewhat.
But I actually try very hard not to do that.
There's a reason I didn't call this channel like atheist Dave and deep drinks.
Like, because I don't want to be like, if I get convinced that there's a God,
I'm going to like, I'm going to acknowledge that there is a God.
And I just.
But but if you become a Muslim, you can't call it deep drinks anymore.
Yeah, I could drink tea.
Fair enough.
Oh, what about Mormon?
It could be deep.
What do they drink?
Oh, David, you're not going to become a Mormon.
Come on, I mean, they always seem pretty happy.
But fair enough.
But I guess like, so like there's like stages that I go through in life.
At the moment, I'm I'm not in like a very investigatory stage,
but there is a stage in my life.
If I don't want to get to the bottom of something else,
spend like six months just like trying to remove as much bias as I possibly can.
And I and I worry not just for the Christian, but for the atheist content
creator, that because they become a content creator,
because they, I guess, essentially get a name, a big name in in, you know,
your livelihood is attached to your channel.
My livelihood will not yet, but I get revenue from the channel.
I worry that that someone who's like mission is I am the King Atheist
or I'm King Christian or King Islam, that they actually lose the ability
to intellectually investigate things without bias.
Like they can't get past their own bias.
They'd be so much harder.
Like imagine if if Jordan Peterson decided to become, you know,
like a Muslim one day or become an atheist, like he would like most of his
audience would like disappear because his whole thing is pretending to be a Christian.
Well, I get what you're saying.
And I don't like psychoanalyzing people.
I can only speak to myself on this.
Look, when I when I came out as a theistic evolutionist, I lost donors.
When I came out against, you know, pre-millennialism, I lost donors.
When I came out against Christian nationalism, I lost donors.
I have gone down this road before.
I'm at the end of the day, we're all just doing our best.
We all are biases.
We all have worldviews we want to defend.
None of us are actually looking at the data purely, objectively, myself included.
I admit that.
Yes, there is an aspect of me that wants Christianity to be true, because I find
good aspects of it.
I'll be honest, there are some days I don't want Christianity to be true.
And it'd be much easier to come out as that Christian apologist who's just
become an atheist and, oh, my goodness, think of all the interviews and amazing
book sales I could do with this kind of nonsense.
But I mean, like there are benefits to both.
I could see a path if the evidence made me convince, look, here's the thing.
If I was convinced that atheism was true,
let's say Christianity was false.
I wouldn't become an atheist like some of these popular YouTube atheists.
I'd become someone more like Tim O'Neill or Tom Holland.
I talk about all the benefits of Christianity, the historical benefits,
the sociological benefits.
I may not be convinced of it, but I would be given my sociology.
I've studied on this.
I still want to live in a place where the majority is Christian,
because I see all the benefits that flow from it.
So if I became like an atheist, it would you'd have to convince me
another level that Christianity was harmful.
And I would still talk about the good of it without actually arguing it's true.
So I don't think it would, I would, I'd probably, yeah, lose some donors,
but I think I could waver the storm is what I'm saying.
So I keep that in my mind as a way to say, try your hardest to reduce bias,
even though it's impossible to get rid of it all the time.
But again, I am convinced it's true, but I'm also convinced it's extremely
beneficial so I don't understand all the pushback against Christianity
from a lot of these evangelical atheists, given how much good it does
and how it's so much in that positive for humanity.
Yeah, I guess a lot of people, again, don't run their life of of like spreadsheets.
People should, you should look at the data.
But but I think that a lot of people who leave Christianity,
that they're stuck with a lot of the baggage that comes with Christianity.
You know, the story of the prodigal son,
prodigal son leaves, does some wild partying, returns.
I've I've often conflated that when a Christian usually leaves church
and they end up going off the rails and they go clubbing
and hooking up with people and stuff, it's not long until they return to church.
And it's not necessarily because God's calling them back.
Maybe that has a little bit to do with it, that they feel this conviction or something.
But I would say that a big part of that is actually that when someone leaves
the church and that social structure and those belief systems and stuff,
they actually have no way of dealing with like real world problems.
Like all of a sudden they can't pray when they feel shame.
They can't when they when they feel guilty, when they when they feel hurt, when they're,
you know, when something happens, they can't pray.
They don't have a social structure.
So they actually feel really lost.
And they have seen a lot of people who walk away or start, you know,
start clubbing or going or sinning or walk away from God.
And they immediately make some really poor decisions.
And it's like they just they're just a bit lost.
They're just all over the place because they don't have that that they haven't
been taught how to, I guess, live in a world without Jesus.
And I think that's a big part of it.
Look at some super chats.
I know we I hope we don't we're going to try not to run too much over time.
But not so conformant.
Thank you for the twenty dollars.
Bad people make religion harmful.
Unfortunately, this happens more often than good people making religion helpful.
But I agree with Michael here.
Early Christian sex practiced egalitarian such union like lifestyles that were good.
Yeah, I would I don't know if I would agree necessarily.
This happens more often than good people make religious helpful.
I mean, I just think we don't notice a lot of the good because we get a lot of our
information from the media, which is purely sensationalist and always pushing
the stories. They're going to make us emotional.
And social media has put us on echo chambers.
We react to things and make us emotional.
We rarely react to good things.
I mean, the Catholic Church is the world's largest
nongovernmental provider of health care.
I've got I'm sitting on numerous studies.
I'm working on a video right now and all the benefits from Christian missionary
activity, increased literacy rates, more female equality, more economic growth,
more hygiene habits, more access to medical care, all these things.
We don't see that every day because it's you know, it's just it's so it's so
ultimate because everything that you're saying, like better rights to LGBT folks
or whatever, the things that you say.
I imagine that a Christian isn't like that's like anti-Christian.
Like, you know what I mean?
Like my family went to see mean girls and then we're like and part of my family
went to see mean girls and then we're like, oh, I didn't really like all the homes.
The I haven't seen a new one, but like there's homosexual lifestyles.
And it's like that was in the original, like things aren't getting worse.
Like I just don't understand how like seeing two queer folks on TV is so offensive.
Like I just anyway, you know, we often remember those things as well.
And social media has put us on echo chambers.
I mean, I'm going to see a lot more stuff that's going to make me emotional.
It's just going to be it's going to see atheists doing things I don't like.
You're going to see a lot more things that are making you emotional.
It's going to be religious people doing things you don't like.
Like lately in my feed, I've seen a lot of Muslims saying some crazy stuff
since my date with Danny.
So don't play here.
But so I mean, we just have to remember that a lot of what we're seeing is
different than what's going to show up in the actual data.
And a lot of the good is going to go under the radar, unfortunately.
This is just the way it is in social media has made us worse.
I think I think a lot of people too, when they if they are in this worldview
that Christian is evil, Christian is a Christian is evil.
And then they go to their local church with grandma on Sunday or something
or like on Christmas and like these people are all nice.
Like have the 80s community been lying to me?
It's like this is bias that goes on.
But I was to stand by like everything else.
You know, like my church, like we do a lot of like church, that's right.
But you know, there's so much.
So my church, we do a lot of work for the Tucson refugee ministry.
Most of the two refugees that come to Tucson are Muslims.
So I mean, I've spent days over the summer of like making goody bags
and collecting blankets or food for Muslim children and Muslim families,
even though like that stuff is not going to be reported in the news.
I mean, this is a lot of churches do like these kinds of things
without people really noticing.
It's just a lot of it goes under the radar.
No, well, like that's more than I did.
I think good only for doing that, for doing actual charity work
is Hang for Sheet, $20 Super Chat.
And thank you also for being a patron supporter.
I'm not so informed.
I think you are as well. Thank you.
Is there any intrinsic benefit gained by being Christian
that can't be gained by not being Christian?
How can this be reconciled with the fact that there are no examples
of independent organizations, independent origination of the knowledge of Jesus?
I don't understand the second part of the question.
I can answer the first one.
When I look into the sociology and reading papers,
like I mentioned, the role into Salem paper or the Davis Brown paper,
as well as a lot of the studies on the Christian missionary activity,
you can find benefits with Islam or Hinduism.
The benefits are always much lower to an extent than they are to Christianity.
So a lot of the benefits are maximally associated.
I might not be the right word, but they're they're more associated
with Christian religiosity than they were with other religions.
You're going to get far more political stability
coming out of, like, for example, Protestant nations
and you get out of Islamic nations.
You're going to get far more
ideas of promoting education, promoting welfare in Christian nations
and then we will get another one.
So you can find benefits if intrinsic religiosity tied to others.
But when they when you see studies comparing Christianity almost always outperforms.
And so that that's just what the data is showing.
And also a lot of the data that I cited in my video is Christianity harmful.
A lot of the data just comes from the Christian West.
I mean, I'll also say this Muslims are just understudied compared to Christians.
Hindus are understudied compared to Christians.
A lot of the people who've done studies over the past 50 years
in sociology of religion have basically been like,
let's just go get a sample outside of the university.
Oh, look, most of the people are Christians.
Sometimes we'll include some Jews, you know,
we'll include some other religious affiliations occasionally.
But the overwhelming majority of subjects have just been Christian.
And I think that's a real deficiency in sociology.
I'd like to see studies done on atheists, agnostics, Muslims, Hindus.
It's just it's a lot harder for someone like a sociologist
like a university in California to get on a plane, fly to India,
to study people for a few months, then just do it in his backyard.
So that's just one of the unfortunate side effects of that.
And the second part of the question, how can we,
how can this be reconciled with the fact that there are no examples
of independent origination of the knowledge of Jesus?
I'm not sure what that means.
Could they clarify maybe in another comment?
Yeah, but I mean, I'm very drunk.
I've got a full day of work after this as well, or half a day of work.
My boss is probably watching.
What's up, Josh?
Hi, Josh.
Paulos, Christian apologetics.
Thank you for the tender super chat.
O.T. can be inspired for allegorical truth and still be be a concession
and entirely different genre like Genesis mytho history.
Paul himself says the law was a guard for immature believers before Christ came.
Yeah, it's I think he's the word guard, not tutor.
I think the King James says tutor for some reason.
But yeah, it was like some sort of guard, I don't know if it says immature believers,
but I mean, I mean, you have the idea that he also talks about Romans,
that it was like it brought about the point of the law for Paul.
Was it exposing sin, not so much getting rid of sin,
but exposing sin, bringing it out so Christ could destroy it, that kind of idea.
So, I mean, there's a lot more complexity there.
And the way the Christians have understood a lot of the Old Testament
laws throughout history is not just, well, Exodus says this about slaves and women.
Therefore, that's that's what.
No, that's not what we see coming out of Christian societies at large
and what is produced Western civilization.
We got a quote, a geographical contact, much of this contact violent.
This is from Hengphishies.
Geographical much of this contact.
How come the fact that there are no examples of
independent origination of the know, do you mean like people just knowing about Jesus abroad?
I don't think that was ever promised in the Bible, this kind of idea.
There have been reports from missionaries of ideas like that.
I don't know how reliable they are, but there have been reports
that missionaries had some sort of knowledge or dreams of telling them
to go see missionaries that are coming to visit them, this kind of thing.
So, but I mean, that's all that's all stuff I can't really attest to a year
because I don't have a lot of knowledge on that.
Cor Hill, thank you for the 10 are super child or what that is.
But if the Enlightenment can be attributed to Christianity, then so can Islam.
Therefore, Christianity is ultimately to blame for all the harm caused by Islam.
Or maybe IP also thinks Islam isn't harmful.
So, the Enlightenment, if the Enlightenment can be attributed to Islam, then so can Islam.
So Islam, I mean, Tom Holland wrote a book on Islam.
It's not just getting influences from Christianity.
It's also drawing from pre-Islamic Arabia, the polytheism there, Roman law, Greek philosophy.
It's a huge amalgamation of various, various things.
And I don't say the Enlightenment is just because of Christianity.
There are economic factors read Noah J.
Ephron's chapter in his book and the Noah J.
Ephron's chapter in the book, Galileo goes to jail and other myths.
And he notes other factors that contributed to the Enlightenment, for example, it wasn't just Christianity.
Another book by Charles Taylor, A Secular Age, makes the case that the secular age,
these enlightened ideas come about from cherry picking aspects of Christianity.
They like and leaving parts they don't like.
So it's like the redheaded stepchild of Christianity.
It's let's take away a lot of the moral foundations and try to reinterpret them.
So John Locke, for example, rejects the Amago Day as a basis for equality, for example.
And it gives it more to like work ethic kind of thing.
We are about the creator's work.
We please all assign a certain work task there for we all need to have principles of equality.
So you can see Enlightenment thinkers taking things they like from Christianity,
whereas rejecting other aspects they like of it.
This is a much more complicated aspect.
I'm only saying that Christianity gave rise to certain aspects of human rights,
abolitionist ideas, various aspects.
And I'll say Christianity was crucial for the development of science,
but I don't say Christianity was the only thing he gave rise to science.
Because I don't say just like I don't say Christianity was the only thing that
led to the creation of Islam.
I mean, this is these are oversimplifications in my view.
Would you say you'd have to acknowledge at least that like Islam and Hinduism
and other religions have had benefit to society in other cultures, right?
Yeah, there are benefits there.
Yeah, and they're up there.
Yeah, my argument is optimal human flourishing.
You know, it's not.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I remember we talked about this last time about about optimal.
Oh, about morality in general.
And we have a very different perspective on that.
I mean, if we had all the time, the word, I'd go back into that, but we don't.
The last super chat.
Thank you so much from skeptics and scoundrels.
Ten dollars and thank you for being a patron supporter as well.
Guys, we have new tears on the patron.
Go check them out and there's a free tier as well.
So go join for free so you can check out the community live streams
and hang out. That'd be a good time.
I thank you for this tunnel super chat.
I see a burning building.
I throw fuel onto the fire.
I then help put it out.
Do I deserve praise or should I be held responsible for the fact
that I made the fire worse before helping?
I throw.
Well, I mean, obviously you help create the fire, but analogy needs
to be associated with something other than just the analogy itself.
So I don't get what this is.
Slavery, I do.
What like slavery, the slavery laws in the Old Testament,
like, instead of saying, instead of saying like, I'm just guessing,
but this is what I go to.
But like, instead of God saying, hey, don't own people with slavery
or maybe take them in, take in the the virgins for yourselves,
don't have sex with them and, you know, raise them and then send them
on their way to be merry and happy in the land of milk and honey
rather than take them for yourself and rape them.
Well, I don't think numbers thirty three was a command by God.
OK, but you know, I mean, when it comes to like slavery, like,
yeah, slavery, where I brought that up in my debate with Daniel Hikikichu.
So then my pushback again is going to go to the comparison
that we saw in India with the British saying,
let's start to get rid of child marriage slowly.
But surely let's start to introduce ideas to start, you know,
raising the age of marriage slowly, but surely very much.
This is the same idea.
I don't think this analogy would compare to that
because I don't think it's throwing fuel onto a fire.
It's saying it's starting to put the fire out slowly.
But surely without this idea,
we're going to take away people's entire free will.
We're going to start introducing revolutionary ideas
that John Batero talks about or John Walton talks about in their books.
That this is going to slowly start to disintegrate the practice.
And again, this is what we see coming out of Judeo-Christian culture.
Well, this is actually really good analogy
because it's like with the slavery thing,
instead of like God pouring a big bucket of water over the fire,
it seems like what you're arguing is God actually like built a rock wall around it.
So like little kids couldn't fall in or maybe they could or like people couldn't fall in
and like put wood on there.
But the wood was built in such a way that eventually
people would stop putting wood on the fire.
Is that what you're kind of arguing?
Maybe I'd have to think about that analogy some more.
Well, like, I guess a lot of the criticism that I hear is like,
why didn't God just pour them the old bucket of water?
We're assuming it would have taken.
I mean, the biblical if the biblical narrative is true,
God gave them some ideas in the Torah to keep
and what the moment they get into the Promised Land, they immediately reject them.
They immediately just start doing all sorts of horrible evil things
and they were not supposed to do. This is what judges narrate.
So, you know, we're saying, well, why didn't God just get rid of slavery,
introduced democracy?
Well, obviously, it wouldn't have taken, given that they couldn't even keep
the very delimited things that they were supposed to do.
Like they're supposed to care for the stranger and the prophets are always going,
why aren't you caring for the stranger?
This is this is filled through the I mean, like maybe God knew what he was doing
when he said, look, I'm going to introduce a little bit.
I want you to keep and they can't even do that.
Maybe humanity is more brave than we realize.
And that's why we need a savior to begin with.
And it's not until, you know, it's this idea of this.
Genesis one to eleven is the degradation of humanity.
And then Genesis 12 to the end of revelations is God slowly but surely
trying to get us out of there.
And it's just hard because we're just so.
We don't want to listen.
Yeah. And just just to wrap up, I'm very curious.
And this might be a long, long answer, so I apologize.
But do you what do you hold is true in the Old Testament?
Like, do you think the prime legal history actually happened?
Like, do you think Noah's Ark happened?
Do you think the Exodus happened?
Like what? Yeah, I mean, but I don't take the young earth view.
I mean, like I say that Genesis one to one should be translated as
when God began to create heavens in the earth.
Yeah. So earth was well turned waste.
In fact, I think there's even a strong case to make that might even be saying
underworld, not even earth.
But that's another story entirely.
But I mean, like, yeah, I think there was a little out of an Eve, but I don't know.
Noah's Ark.
Yeah, I think it was a local event kind of thing.
And I think it was more of a profit kind of aspect.
So I mean, I follow John Walton and Trevor Longman in this and that the
the numbers in that account are not literal.
They're symbolic.
I do think there was a little exodus.
I did a whole series arguing it happened during the Ramazide period.
I think it was the Joshua or like all of it.
Like all like when you say in excess, because I know that some people will say
like the exodus happened, but it was like from the Babylonians.
And we just like reworked it a bit.
Or do you think like they literally crossed the Red Sea, the sea, the water
part parted, Ferris, and everyone was chasing them?
Yeah, but I mean, like read the text.
It wasn't like Charlton Heston.
It says a strong East wind blew the water back all night before the before the
land bridge happened. I mean, it wasn't like that.
That'd be awesome.
I mean, water was, you know, I did see the meme of Beyblades
and you didn't even you didn't even get.
I'm too busy reading books.
There's this meme apparently in the Beyblade cannon.
Does anyone know what Beyblades are?
There's things that you like rip and then like spin around and like
there's in the cannon of apparently Beyblades.
That's what what's what Moses used to split the Red Sea.
He like used a Beyblade.
And I like the more you keep going,
the more I want to give you a wet will and take the lunch money.
That's so good.
Well, Michael, look,
I know that you've you come into the lion's den this morning and I know that,
you know, I've pushed back a lot.
Look, if you ever want to bring me on your channel or bring me somewhere
and you want to push back on me and my naturalistic worldview,
I'll be more than happy to do it.
You know, thank you for being good sport.
Thank you for the comments for the most part, for being respectful in asking
questions, you know, not a lot of Christians or people.
Apologies will come on this come on the channel or talk to atheists like me.
So I really appreciate it.
Thank you, Michael, for coming on.
It's been an absolute pleasure.
Thank you for choosing the best drink in the world.
Whiskey, is there anything you want to say before we wrap up?
Yeah, you can follow me on my channel.
I'm going to be doing some more videos on this topic soon,
like a video I'm working on called How Christianity Changed the World.
I'm going to go through various studies showing Christianity led to more
education, more medical access, these kinds of ideas.
See other videos like that as well.
So working on my reliability of the gospel series, a lot of other aspects like that.
There and there.
Which videos are that does Christianity cause war and violence?
Does Christianity cause Christian nationalism?
Those are two kind of related videos.
What I was talking about today.
Oh, I guess this is the new for you section.
Go check out links in the description for.
Well, let me just actually dump it in there right now in the chat.
But go check out this video and I encourage everyone.
Maybe even get some people doing some like replies to it or something.
But go watch it because I was actually surprised at some of the statistics.
Of course, obviously, I haven't got done deep dive, but yeah, go check it out.
It's a good video, well produced, and I think you make some good points.
So thank you, Mark, for coming on.
And with that said, I'll see everyone later.
