Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcast,
the deepest podcast on the internet in the universe
for all time, for ever and ever, the Alpha and the Omega.
This is the show.
And tonight we have an amazing episode.
We're gonna start off slowing it right down.
We're gonna be talking about Isaiah 53.
I'm gonna read the scripture for you
and then we're gonna start the show
and introduce my amazing guest.
So you see here, I've got my Bible
that I had through ministry college.
You even see, I was wondering if you can see that.
I've drawn some text over there and I've written, Jesus.
I don't know when I wrote that, but here we go.
Who has believed our message?
From whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?
He grew up like a tender shoot,
like a root out of dry ground.
He had no beauty or majesty to attract us to him,
nothing in his appearance that we should desire him.
He was despised and rejected by men,
a man of sorrows and familiar with suffering,
like one from whom men hide their faces.
He was despised and we esteemed him not.
Surely he took up our affirmities and carried our sorrows,
yet we considered him stricken by God,
smitten by him and afflicted.
But he was pierced for our transgressions,
he was crushed for our inequities.
That the punishment we brought us peace was upon him
and by his wounds, we are healed, sorry.
I'm gonna leave it there as we jump into
a very important episode
and a very exciting episode of Deep Drinks Podcast.
Let's do this.
It feels silly to even introduce my guest today,
because everyone knows Neil.
Neil is the goat, or is one of the goats.
He is up there with the people I like the most on YouTube.
He's a content creator behind Nostic Informant
and he makes videos on history, mythology, psychedelics
and early Christianity.
I'm a huge fan of his work
and I'm excited to have him on once again,
Nostic Informant, welcome Neil.
How you doing?
Cheers, I love it, I love it.
Awesome, just before we get started,
we were gonna be drinking wine,
but we made an executive decision
to scrap the alcoholic beverages for tonight,
which is cool.
It's actually good for me
because I've been going through
a little bit of mental ups and downs lately
and I think just having a break,
just pumping the breaks on the alcohol
when that happens is never a bad thing.
So I'm super excited.
I've got two stolen from my roommate,
two Coke's ready to go.
Coke, no sugar, stolen from my roommate.
G Fuel, it's some iced tea.
No way, G Fuel, I've just keep singing
for you if I tell you to get that.
It's like a cherry tea, it's really good.
Cherry G Fuel with some iced tea, it's always good.
Awesome, high pragmatic crystal.
Thanks for joining us
and everyone make sure you hit that like button
and the governor I'm driving
able to drink in 50 miles.
Hell yeah, well, enjoy your drinks
when you get there, good person.
So just before we jump into this,
just before we get into the weeds,
I need, I never really do this at the start,
but I wanna kinda pump, kind of a pimp out tomorrow's stream.
So we have the huge purity,
kind of purity,
purity culture horror stories panel
and that's gonna be amazing.
It's gonna be wild.
I've made sure that I've got consent forms from everyone
to talk about the things that we'll be talking about,
making sure everyone's comfortable talking about
like sex, masturbation, porn, kinks,
anything that comes up.
And we're talking about the,
how purity culture has affected everyone on the panel
and we even have a marriage and family therapist coming on
in a pasta turned porn star.
Here is the trailer.
The trailer.
That's awesome, awesome, awesome.
And of course, just to show off the panel,
we, these, it's gonna play it again, isn't it?
This is the panel.
So we have Emily, Jeremy, Nicole, myself.
A lot of people.
Apostasy and Dr. Ben, who's now a doctor,
not a student, Dr. Ben, he's family, Dr. Ben.
It's gonna be a really awesome panel.
But enough about tomorrow's episode.
And of course, enough about,
I'll just do one last plug.
Everyone, go subscribe and also confirm one, of course.
Absolutely amazing content.
Continues to pump out amazing content.
This is only, like I have two YouTube channels
and so sometimes you don't see it,
but I've watched a lot of your content
and I've watched the USA Christianity nationalism one,
like one and a half times.
With a twist at the end too, right?
Yeah, big twist.
It's really good.
I really like it.
Awesome.
How you been, man, before we jump into it?
Good, man, good.
Honestly, I cannot complain one bit.
Everything's riding along as I hoped for, so.
Oh, awesome.
That's great to hear.
I'm doing okay as well.
Let's jump into the weeds.
Give us the, give us, so how should we do this?
So what I think we should do first
is we should steal, man, the Christian interpretation
of the text.
So what I think the best way to do this
is if you can pull up Isaiah 53-8.
And let's read that.
Let's read that.
Everybody on the same page and what is that?
Let's back up a little bit and just explain
why is this important?
Like why is Isaiah 53 is the, the, the goat,
the, the main scripture that points to Jesus.
Just by reading Isaiah 53,
I think people will see why Christians
are so obsessed with this verse.
Yeah.
And it's very, if you don't have the context,
you might think the Christians are on to something.
As soon as you get the context, it's like,
oh my God, it was so simple.
It's like, there's no question what's going on here.
So obviously if you, I don't know if you're pulling it up
or not, but the text has a passage
about a servant being stripped and beaten
and pierced for the sins of mankind.
So if you take-
Yeah, okay.
Let's read that.
Let's read that.
Do you want to, do you want to read it
or do you want me to continue reading where I left off?
If you can pull up the verse,
Isaiah 53-8, Isaiah 53-8 and just show it on the screen
and let's look at it.
That way people can see it
and then we can read it for people who are listening.
Cause this is the most, we have to have this.
I don't know if that's actually the verse you're talking about.
Isaiah 53?
Yeah, you know, no, I was, I'd say 53 years, but.
Pull up the whole verse.
I'm sorry, pull up the whole verse.
Isaiah 53, the whole passage.
The whole text.
Which translation is the last least?
Just go with NIV, that's the standard one, right?
It really doesn't matter.
They're pretty much, there's very little variances in this.
This is, okay.
So if we look at this, just to give everyone context,
this is an Old Testament scripture.
This is like before Jesus,
when the Old Testament prophesies is believed
to prophesied a messiah.
The messiah in Jewish customs is just a king.
It just means the anointed person.
It just means the king, like King David or whatever.
Yeah, anointed by the high priest, yes.
And it's just meant to be like a physical ruler.
Christianity has kind of spun that to be spiritual.
He's the spiritual messiah.
He's come to save.
So it's spinning the story of a narrative.
And that's essentially why Christians don't accept it.
But we're looking now at the Old Testament scripture
of Isaiah 53, that is Christians believe has,
that kind of presupposes or prophesies the coming messiah
as the scene by Christians.
So yes, it's a little bit of context, yeah.
Okay, so first,
let's start from the top,
because then we could just, I'll read this out.
So who has believed our message?
To whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?
He grew up before him like an ender chute.
And like a root out of dry ground,
he had no beauty or majesty to attract us to him.
Nothing in his appearance that we should desire him.
He was despised and rejected by mankind,
a man of suffering.
And with familiar and familiar with pain,
like one from whom people hide their faces.
He was despised and he held him in low esteem.
Surely he took up our pain and bore our suffering.
Yet we considered him punished by God,
stricken by him in afflict, which is, that's a weird one.
But he was pierced for our transgressions.
He was crushed for our iniquities.
The punishment that brought us peace was on him.
And by his wounds, we are healed.
We are like sheep who have gone astray.
Each of us, each of us has turned our own way
and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all.
He was oppressed and afflicted.
Yet he did not open his mouth.
He was like a lamb to the slaughter.
And he, as a sheep before it, shears his silent.
So he did not open his mouth.
By oppression and judgment, he was taking away.
So that pretty much is, I mean,
you can go down a little bit more.
After he suffered, he will see the light of life
and be satisfied by his knowledge.
My righteous servant.
All right.
Remember that.
My righteous servant.
Which verse do you jump to?
11, 11.
Oh yeah.
Okay.
And he will bear their iniquities.
Therefore, I will give him a portion among the great.
And he will divide the spoils with the strong.
And okay, there it is.
Oh, for he bore the sin of many.
And people get mad when I skip that one,
because we've got the sin thing.
Okay, here it is.
I'm giving it to you.
For he bore the sin of many
and made intercessions for the transgressors.
Now, that right there, when you are in church
and they read this out to you,
and they say, look how clear this prophecy is for Jesus.
And you have to admit, you have to admit off the bed
without knowing any context of what this verse is.
It sounds like Jesus.
Like a hundred percent.
You're like, oh, that's just a fiction scene.
So.
Yeah.
So there's a lot of things happening here.
Number one is the context.
This is written after Israel was rated by Babylon
and Nebuchadnezzar and taken captive.
So just to give you an example,
I'm gonna share my screen.
I have Kings 25.
Can you see it?
Yep.
So here's the context of what's going on here.
It says, by the ninth day of the fourth month,
the famine in the city had become so severe
that there was no food for the people to eat.
Then the city wall was broken through
and the whole army fled at night through the gate
between the two walls near the King's Garden.
So the Babylonians were surrounding the city.
Right?
There's that.
That's another, that's from,
the Christians are talking about Psalm 22.
They're surrounding us like wolves.
They fled toward Ereba,
but the Babylonian army pursued the king
and overtook him in the plains of Jericho.
All the soldiers were separated from him and scattered.
And he was captured.
He was taken to the king of Babylon
where sentence was pronounced in him.
They killed the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes.
They put out his eyes.
They literally cut his eyes out of his head,
bound him with bronze shackles
and took him to Babylon.
Do you see the imagery?
You see this piercing and being beaten and whipped as a,
you know, you see this.
Okay.
So.
Yeah, okay.
I was wanting to lay it out.
There is context to what Isaiah is writing about.
Yeah.
Now you're going to know.
So the next question is,
why does it say he?
Okay.
What, who was he?
Who was he talking about?
Okay.
The next thing we got to do is we have to back up
to understand the context of Isaiah 53.
You do have to go back a few chapters.
Okay.
So I don't know.
We could, we could start in Isaiah one and go through
and we can see.
Let's read all of Isaiah.
Well, we could do that.
First of all, if you go to Isaiah seven,
there's the verse about the virgin will give birth.
That actually isn't virgin.
It's made.
So that's a Christian re, Christian mistranslation.
But like that's a whole other,
that's like, that doesn't matter about the suffering server.
That's something different.
So if we go to, if we go to Isaiah 41.
Okay.
All right.
Let's do this.
Do you see the, do you see my screen?
Oh, sorry.
Have you gone good?
You see it?
Yep.
Okay.
The helper of Israel is the title here, right?
Yeah.
Okay.
Be silent before me, you islands.
Let nations renew their strength.
Let them come forth.
Let us meet together in the plane of judgment.
Who has stirred up one from the East,
calling him in righteousness to service from the,
they're here to look at from the East, the Babylonians.
Who has stirred up one from the East, right?
Calling him in righteousness to his service.
He has nations over him.
He subdues kings before him.
Okay.
Look what's going on here.
But you Israel, my servant, Jacob, whom I have chosen,
you descendants of Abraham, my friend, here it is.
This is the whole, this is the biggest thing.
This is the whole context.
He is Jacob.
Do you understand what's going on here?
So Israel is Jacob.
The servant is Israel.
So what Isaiah is doing, he's just taking Israel
and he's personifying them as the suffering servant.
So all the things that happened with Josiah
and the sons of Zedekiah getting murdered and stripped
and shackled up and brought to Babylon
with their eyes missing, beaten, whipped,
that's the suffering servant.
Jacob is the suffering servant.
So okay, you're like, all right, that's one verse, right?
I said, you are my servant.
I have chosen you and have not rejected you, right?
Look at this, all who rage against you
will surely be ashamed and disgraced, okay?
Do not be afraid, you warm Jacob, little Israel,
do not fear.
He's talking about Israel.
So let's go to another, let's keep going.
I just want to make this so clear.
I'm going to share another-
Let me push back a little bit on that.
I'm not pushing back, but let me ask,
is the word servant there the same Hebrew word
as the servant in Isaiah 53?
The same Zek word.
Wow, okay.
Look, it's going to get way more clear.
Watch this.
Okay, I'm ready, I'm ready.
I'm just going to go through the whole chapter basically.
So then-
Thank you everyone who's posting information in the chat.
We'll hopefully be able to get to some of the questions
and comments.
So is this the one I just showed?
The helper visitor?
Yeah, this is the one I just showed.
Let me cancel this out.
All right, let me share the next one.
I just need to give everyone some context too.
Neil is like, he's prepared, man.
Like he's got, he's got like a Hebrew.
I used to be, this used to be my arguments
for Christianity, I know them.
You had a, you have like a, show that book that you picked.
You showed me before the stream.
It's like the Hebrew.
Oh, I got him has the right text.
So we're going to use this, by the way.
I'm going to get that.
This is the Hebrew with that in the correct.
There's a lot of English mistranslations that you don't get.
You got to look at the Hebrew.
They're playing games with your Bibles, bro.
They're playing games with your Bibles.
Anyways, gosh, I got it on the screen right now.
The next one.
All right, I'm going to go purchase
that exact same one after this.
Yeah, you should get this one.
It's got the Greek New Testament
and the Hebrew Old Testament.
Oh, it's in the Christian bookshop
just down the road from me.
It's a must have, it's a must have.
So here it is, 4310, you are my witnesses
and my servant who I have chosen
so that you may know and believe me,
but understand that I am he before me,
no God was formed nor will there be one after me.
Okay?
So there is a month that you're a servant, you're a witness.
Let's go to the next one.
I'm just going to keep going until we get to Isaiah 53.
So this is like, so this is building a case
that Isaiah 50, like every time Isaiah 50,
oh, sorry, my brain,
every time the suffering servant is mentioned,
it's talking about Israel, right?
Before we get to that.
You're going to see eventually,
eventually by the time you get to 53,
he's just saying, he, and then sometimes they,
and the Christians take the word they
and just change it to he,
but that's, we're getting ahead of myself.
Let's wait till we get there.
That's the, that's the, that's the,
that was the nail in the coffin for me when I found out
they're changing the word he,
or changing the word they to he to make it one person.
That's, you're messing with it.
But let's, let's, we're getting ahead of ourselves.
That's later on.
So here it is in 44, right?
But now listen, Jacob, my servant,
he is the same word, by the way, servant,
suffering servant, Jacob, doesn't say Jesus,
doesn't say Messiah,
doesn't say anything about a Messiah.
So is Jacob a personification of Israel?
Yes, Jacob, did you know in the Old Testament
that Jacob gets renamed Israel?
Jacob is the son of Isaac, Isaac,
or Isaac has Jacob and Esau.
Jacob gets his name changed to Israel.
He is Israel.
He's the father of the 12 sons.
So you, this is all,
that was a really good question you just asked,
because this is the context of Jacob being the servant
is Israel, Jacob equals Israel, period.
And anyone who's like, anyone who's immersed
in Old Testament Bibles stuff, they'd know this is not like,
I'm not making, this is not like some theory.
This is like, that's a fact.
Jacob is Israel.
Jacob's always used as a synonym for Israel.
The nation of Jacob, the nation of Israel,
it's the same thing.
So is it like, like my family name is McDonald,
which means son of Donald, right?
This guy named Donald, right?
He's like, Jacob is like,
Jacob is like the dude behind, well, why not Abraham?
Like, why don't why Jacob, why not Abraham?
Because Jacob is the father of the 12 sons
who become the 12 tribes.
Right, okay.
In the Old Testament, this is not,
this is a really good question.
I'm gonna pull something up real quick.
All right, let's do this.
This is what I love about Neil is like,
I don't know anyone who's this excited about Hebrew genealogies.
Yeah, I love this stuff.
Okay, so look.
Yeah, dude, like.
You don't even know how good of a question that was,
by the way.
I didn't even think to bring this up,
because if you go to Genesis 35, okay, look at this.
This is in Genesis 35.
Any Bible, pick up any Bible.
God appeared to him again and blessed him.
And God said to him, though your name is Jacob,
you will no longer be called Jacob.
Instead, your name will be Israel.
God named him Israel.
Jacob is Israel.
Oh, wow.
Yeah, that was a, I didn't even realize it
until you asked the question.
That was such a good question.
Because it matters.
I'm very smart.
That context matters at the end of the day.
It does.
So that was an amazing question.
I shoulda, now I'm gonna use that when I talk
about the subject now on.
That's such a good point.
Awesome.
So, let's see.
We were at 40, what chapter were we on?
45?
I'll go back to 45 then.
I'm gonna share my screen.
This is so, I remember talking to a friend of mine
who was going through ministry college.
And I said, oh, what are you researching?
And they said, oh, we're researching why
the Jewish people don't accept Jesus.
And I said, oh, why is that?
And they did an assignment and they said,
oh, because they don't have Isaiah 53.
And I was like, right.
It's funny.
And they actually think this is the verse that,
and like, this is like the verse of all verses.
I remember hearing that and I was like,
that's interesting.
And I went and looked for it and I was like,
it's right there.
Like it's in the Hebrew Bible.
Like it's not hidden.
It's not, you know, and it's exactly the same.
How to read the whole chapter and get the context.
If you take verses, that's what Christians end up doing.
They take verses out of context and apply in the Jesus.
And that's, you're going to see how we get there.
It's very simple.
Like that's what they end up doing.
They ask Aliyah and Rachel wives of Israel.
Yeah.
Yeah, those are the mothers of the 12 tribes.
Absolutely.
It's like picking up any book.
Go to your bookshelf and pick up any book.
Turn, you know, like what Isaiah is probably like
halfway through the Old Testament.
Pick up, go halfway through the book
and read a page in that book
and try and work out what's going on.
Like most of the time it's,
you're going to get the context wrong.
And people need to understand the context of Isaiah,
which I don't.
That's why I have you here.
I'm going to actually go back through
and read the all of Isaiah to try and get the context
a bit better after this.
But yeah, it's wild.
Let's go to the next one.
So, okay, the next one I have,
hold up is 53.
He says, look, if here you go once again.
For the sake of Jacob, my servant of Israel, my chosen,
I summon you by name and bestow on you a title of honor.
Though you do not acknowledge me,
I am the Lord and there is no other.
I will strengthen you, you know,
though you have not acknowledged me
so that from the rising of the sun
to the place of its setting.
So you have more Jacob, my, Jacob, my servant,
let's see if there's anything else in here.
Let's see.
Here it is.
Truly you are a God who has been hiding himself,
the God of the savior of Israel.
All the makers of idols will be shamed and disgraced.
So yeah, I have not said to Jacob's ascended,
seek me in vain.
And so there's more.
I'm just basically showing you.
Look it.
And there is no God apart from me,
a righteous God and savior, none but me.
So, all right.
So let's go to the next one.
I'm just gonna, all I'm doing is
I'm kind of skimming through the chat.
And I'm not like-
We're trying to set the tone.
Yeah.
Just quickly.
Ashra's orchard said get this D, D Rachel, Rachel, sorry.
Rachel means U and Leo means cow eyes,
both symbols of the goddess.
I didn't even know that.
Oh, wow.
That's interesting.
So now we get to, let's go to 53 now.
Now that we have the context, right?
We have the context now.
And let's look at it now.
We just, we basically went through the whole chapter.
And every time servant is being described, it's Jacob.
Okay, every time.
Now we're in 53 and it says, you know,
so it's the servant is Jacob leading up to this, right?
But here's the where it gets crazy.
So there's, let's say,
let's say throughout all that you're basically like,
but look, it's still talking about somebody.
Somebody, right?
He has suffered.
He will see the light of life and be satisfied.
By his knowledge, you know, you're still like, wait,
is this, but it could be,
here's the thing where it gets crazy though.
If you go to the actual Hebrew in Isaiah 53-8,
it's not he, it's they.
So the context of Israel as a being personified
into the servant shows itself in 53 as well.
Not so, wait, people who try to argue that 53
is some different chapter that should be sheltered
and taken by itself and treated differently.
There, if you go to the, I have the text right here.
There's the word Lamo, it means they.
And that gets translated into all the Christian Bibles
as he.
So this is the first time I'm hearing of this.
Christians actually change a word
to make it more like Jesus.
That is the word they,
the word Isaiah 53-8, the word Lamo,
it's instead of he, it's they.
Really, can you show us that?
Is there any way to show us that in the original Greek
like show us in Hebrew?
It's in Hebrew, not the Greek.
Ah, Hebrew, sorry, original Hebrew.
I can pull, it's going to be really small and hard to see,
but maybe.
Oh, no, on the tab there, there's a Hebrew slash Greek.
Does that actually do anything?
I don't know.
I don't know what's going, I don't know how these,
I don't know, let me see.
Let's see.
He was cut off from the living.
Is this, I just don't know if this is the
Meso-Eye text or not.
So if it is, then we'll see the word in there.
Let's see.
Okay.
Let's see.
Lakha.
Okay, wait, is this the right verse?
Okay, Isaiah 53, eight.
Yeah, this is the right verse.
Okay.
But he was taken away.
Me.
Okay.
Four.
We can't see it if you clicked on it with a.
Am I, am my screen still sharing?
Yeah, it's still sharing, but I can't see,
we can't see what you're looking at.
Okay.
Hold on, I got to pull it up in here first
and then I'll pull it up on the screen.
I'll look it up on the screen.
So I have it in here.
Yeah.
There's this, I'm going to quickly,
and this isn't super entertaining for everyone,
but I'm going to quickly look at the,
I've got the Hebrew Bible,
which is a new translation by Robert.
What's his name?
By Dr. Robert Ulta, who is the Hebrew Bible translator
that Francesca Stafford Acapullu uses in her book.
And my Chrome is just crashed because the PDF is huge,
but I'm going to try and see if that references they
as if he's translated as they or he.
I know that a lot of people have issues with it.
Let me just see.
Isaiah 53A, here it is.
Okay, so, and I wish I should have got this.
Cause I only have it here.
I don't have it on the, I don't have it.
I don't know a good website for the Maserai text.
I just go to this one.
You know what I'm saying?
So, and he was cut off from the living.
So here it is, verse eight, verse eight.
Yeah, it's right.
I don't know how I'm going to show it to you.
Can you read Hebrew?
Can you read Hebrew?
I can't read Hebrew, but,
and my computer is like freezing.
I can show you the Hebrew word on the screen,
but I mean, it's probably can just look it up, honestly.
Yeah. So, Asheras Orchard said,
try pulling it up on safari, safariah, sorry.
Oh yeah. That's the website for the Hebrew Bible.
That's a good bit.
And my computer is just like bugging out trying to open it.
Like I am struggling to, oh, Neil's gone.
The arguments, I hit a,
I found an issue with his argument and he just ran away.
This is what, this is what atheists do, everyone.
I want you to see this,
that when they don't have a good argument,
they just run away.
Oh, hey, Neil.
I tried to click on the slink
and I was on this thing right here.
So, let me see, let me see text.
I'm using safariah.
Yeah, cool.
And I'm still trying to open this like 42 megabyte PDF,
which shouldn't be this hard to open.
Those damn, those pesky atheists, did you hear what I said?
No, what'd you say?
I was saying this is what happens when atheists get confronted
with them, when they can ask questions, they run away.
Here it is, here it is.
I got it.
Okay.
Okay.
Let's see.
And guys, we're just trying to be very, very thorough.
Like we don't, this is, this is no, you know,
this is a case that we're trying to build.
By the way, this isn't controversial in the,
in the, in like Judaism, like in Judaism,
people aren't like, oh my God, this sounds like Jesus.
Oh, this sounds like a Messiah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So in the, in the Robert Alter Translation,
I've just looked it up.
Yeah.
He uses the word he.
So that's interesting.
I wonder why he used the word he,
but the word Lamo is the word that means they.
So to them, here it is, to them.
It means them.
Asher is orchard said,
it's also possible that Lamo is referring to him.
Yeah.
The servant as representative of people,
similar to the concept of King.
You think he had a, yeah.
Right.
Like, here's the thing.
In the context of the whole chapter.
Yeah.
We're going through Isaiah.
It's talking about Israel.
Then we get to this passage right here.
They'll use the word Lamo, which means them.
Mm-hmm.
You can also say that word can be used
for them or he, right?
It can be either or.
Yeah.
But like, let's, let's go with,
what was the context telling us?
You know what I mean?
Mm.
Exactly.
Yeah.
What was the, I forgot what was the, oh yeah.
So that's another thing.
When you go back to 53,
I'm going to share my screen, okay?
Yeah.
I thought I was sharing my screen.
I guess I wasn't.
So you didn't just see what I was just looking at?
Okay.
For the transgression of my people,
he was punished.
He assigned a grave with the wicked
and with the rich in his death.
Though he had not done no violence
nor was any deceit in his mouth.
So remember when I brought up the,
the sacking of Israel by the Babylonians.
That's what Isaiah is writing about.
He's writing about Israel being sacked
and Israel being the suffering servant.
You know what I mean?
Yes.
So how, how do, so in that case,
like if we skip down a little bit to
some of like the heavier, you know,
yet the law was crushed,
the law will crush him.
If you scroll down a little bit.
Oh, you're looking at, okay.
I thought you were looking at something.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yes, it was the Lord's will to crush him
and cause him to suffer.
And though the Lord makes his life and offering for sin,
he will so, okay, that's, that's such a good question.
Let's go back to Kings, right?
Let's go back to what King says.
Cause this is, you'll see how it lines up perfectly.
What about the, I'm more talking about like,
what about the scripture?
And I should have,
I imagine that I'm showing you, look.
Okay.
So, oh wait, hold on.
This, is this the one that I was thinking of?
I have so many screens up right now.
Yeah, so, so here it is right here.
Surely these things happen to Judah,
according to the Lord's command,
in order to remove his presence
because of the sins of Benesha
and all he had done,
including the shedding of innocent blood,
for he had filled Jerusalem with innocent blood
and the Lord was not willing to forgive.
Do you see how that matches up with Isaiah?
The people are suffering for the sins of Israel.
Yeah.
So it's like, all you gotta do is add,
you just gotta bring the context into the discussion
and Isaiah makes perfect sense.
Now, with that being said,
there are a group of Jews called the Essenes
in the first century.
And they, what they do is they take text,
they take the Old Testament text
and they reapply them to events
that are happening in the world.
And they, so this is,
if you just, Josephus is,
talks about the different sects of Jews,
talks about the Essenes, Pharisees, Sadducees,
talks about the, the other ones are called the zealots.
He writes about these people.
And when he talks about these scenes,
he says that they're specifically writing new scripture
by using the prophets.
So, for example, this is a time
when there's a Messiah, it's a Messianic time, right?
You have Judah, Ben, which is named Judah, Ben Galilee,
Simon of Pariah.
And these people are all thought to be Messiahs
in their times, this is all first century.
Pretty much all of them are compared to,
and so you have this idea of there being
a suffering Messiah in this time period.
And there are people drawing from Isaiah
and putting it onto people of their time period.
Jesus is one of those people.
So think about this, there's two,
in the Dead Sea Scrolls, there's two Messiahs.
There's a fragment called, I forgot what it's called.
I forgot what it's called, man,
I wish I remember the name, Kip Davis would know.
But there's a fragment in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Where are you, Kip?
He should be in the chat.
And he talks about there being possibly two Messiahs,
two anointed ones.
One of them is the triumphant prince, son of David,
the Davidic line.
The other one is supposed to be a suffering servant.
And so what happens is the reason why suffering servant
becomes so central to the Messiah,
to Christianity, for example,
is because there is no triumphant kings happening.
There's no one to compare the triumphant Messiah to.
The only archetype you can pull from the Old Testament
and apply to people like Jesus or Simon Ben Perea or Judah
is the suffering Messiah motif.
So that's why the reason why I'm saying that
is because there is some truth to there being people
in the first century writing text
and using Old Testament to apply.
And you shouldn't be surprised by this.
What the Christians are doing this?
So it's like...
There's a few things I wanna quickly mention.
One is people need to go watch this episode.
It's not getting enough attention.
Jesus, a Marxist material understanding.
Professor, maybe it's professor.
Dr. Robert Miles wrote a book,
essentially about the material conditions
of first century Palestine and talks about,
and when you understand that context,
you understand the New Testament so much better.
So if you're interested in that,
go watch that episode, it's not getting enough attention,
but it's super important for this conversation and more.
Secondly, there are a few scenarios
that I wrote down, right?
One, scenario one.
Isaiah 53 originally referred to a Messiah,
that's scenario one,
and that's what Christians would have you believe.
Yeah, we pretty much know that's not the case.
There's scenario two.
And the reason why we know that,
there is a Messiah mentioned in Isaiah.
It's Cyrus.
So in this time period, the idea of a Messiah
isn't some son of God character that's gonna say it.
That's a later idea of what Messiah is supposed to be.
That's first century.
So there is no Messiah in Isaiah,
except for Cyrus, who's called by Messiah in the text.
As in Isaiah seven.
And like, you would think if this was the Messiah,
they would, God would just say, my Messiah is real.
Yeah, and you'd expect that to be the case.
You'd expect that the word Messiah would be in Isaiah 53,
if it was even, it's not there, it's not there.
All right, scenario two.
It originally didn't refer to the Messiah.
So originally it didn't refer to the Messiah.
And scenario three, which is, I think is the most likely,
which is kind of a number of two as well,
which was, it was originally didn't refer to the Messiah,
but it was later adopted to refer to the Messiah
to bolster the claims of Jesus by his disciples.
And that moves us into the next part
of what I wanted to talk about,
which is you can see this all over the New Testament.
So to give everyone some context,
the first gospel that we have written, right, is Mark.
And Mark was written 30, is it 30 or 40 years after Jesus died?
It's somewhere, it's like 30 or 40 years, yeah.
30 to 40 years after Jesus died.
That's a long-ass time.
Mark does not include the virgin birth
and does not include the disciples encounter
with the resurrected Jesus.
It ends abruptly in the original at the empty tomb
with an angel saying, you know,
the son of Jesus has been risen from the dead and stuff.
You see the story of Jesus developing these later gospels.
Are you telling me that Mark, the original,
you know, writing 30 or 40 years after Jesus had died,
is writing about Jesus and forgets to mention
that he was born of a virgin?
Like that's incredible.
That's like an incredible point to miss out on.
But then we get to later verses,
like later gospels, like the Gospel of Matthew.
And immediately you start seeing these stories added.
So you've got the virgin birth of Matthew.
They're developing more ideas.
They're drawing more from the altar.
It's getting more and more refined.
And then you're getting more, yeah.
And you see Matthew signs Isaiah 714,
which says, therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign.
A virgin will conceive and give birth to a son
and we'll call him Emmanuel.
So it's quoting Isaiah there, Matthew,
a later gospel is quoting Isaiah there and saying,
hey, this is, you know, Jesus must have been born
of a virgin and it's pointing back to Isaiah.
So it's setting the stage for Isaiah.
And it's citing the Greek too, not the Hebrew,
because the Hebrew doesn't have the word,
the Hebrew, the Greek has Parthenos,
which can be either, it could be virgin,
but it also can be like servant, like a maid servant.
And the Hebrew, it's just, it's strictly,
what is it called?
It's not, it's the word for young maiden, basically.
Yeah, yeah, okay.
So they're citing the Greek
and ignoring, once again,
ignoring where the texts actually meet
what the text is actually saying.
So it's one of those things where the Greek,
the Greek happens to line up better for the Christians.
You know what I mean?
It's one of those things that's like,
why wouldn't both do it?
Yeah, yeah.
And even like, even in Mark,
there are, there's a lot, even in our earliest gospel,
there's stuff we're trying to point back to Isaiah.
So, you know, you got the Jesus triumphal entrance
into Jerusalem, which, and the gospels account,
Jesus' triumphal entry into Jerusalem on the cult
and designated to fulfill the Old Testament
and the Messiering prophecy of Zechariah 9.9,
rejoice greatly, daughter of Zion,
shout daughter of Jerusalem,
see your king comes to you righteous and victorious,
lowly and riding on a donkey, on a cult
and a fowl of a donkey.
You, you know, there was some,
there was this one episode of the atheist experience
back when, I love the atheist experience
back when like, Jen was on, Tracy, Matt to the Hunty,
like they were all like the main crew there,
Don, a few of those guys, I loved it back then.
And something that Tracy brought up,
which was so badass, someone called up and just said,
how can you deny Jesus when he's prophesied
so clearly in the Old Testament, right?
And then she just said,
did the writers of the New Testament
have access to the Old Testament?
And the person was like, oh, fuck,
like we didn't say that, but like that.
That's such a, it's like, it's so silly.
And I keep, and I asked, I just had a conversation
in my, and with my friend who's a Catholic about this.
And I go, and I kept saying to him,
if it's so, if it's so clear,
why doesn't it just say the word Jesus
or say the Messiah or say the crucified one
or say something, there's, it's so,
all the details are missing.
So the point where, how do you not realize
you're drawing from this text
and applying it to later stories?
This happens all the time, not just in the Bible.
This happens all over the Greek world,
all over the place.
Odysseus is the new, or the Aeneas is the new Odysseus.
They apply all this stuff Odysseus did to Aeneas
and the Aeneid.
So this type of writing is so common.
He takes shit from the world world and redo it.
You see this in film today.
You know what I'm saying?
I do, I do, I do get that.
My boy, my mate.
So it's so like, people think this is like such a miracle
when it's like, the more obvious,
the more likely scenario is right there.
Yeah, there's, I just, I wanna quickly,
just as you said there, how the gospels imitate
like those things.
We have a Pentecostal Christian coming on soon.
And it seems to be that the apologists
are getting worried about this, this idea.
You talked about it.
Derek talked about it.
Dennis, our Miller's wrote about it in his book.
I did a video on it, how the Greek stories
are kind of very similar to what we find in New Testament.
Anyway, and so we see this here,
testify he's coming on soon.
Are the gospel, are the gospel imitations of Greek epics,
the epic failure of the hameric influence theory.
So that's live in 45 hours.
So that's gonna be a good one.
I'll be able to watch that and...
I wanna make a point real quick
about something, Isaiah.
That I just don't wanna forget my thought
because this was important is that,
shit, I just had it, fuck, I forgot now.
Oh, it was something about,
I'll think of it in a second actually.
What were we just saying before that?
Before the epic's part.
I think you were talking, yeah, I think,
that's what it was, something about the...
The version birth, there was...
Oh, I remember now, thank God, this is so important too.
Another thing that we don't think about or talk about
is that we look at the gospels in the story of Jesus
and his suffering and being pierced and all this stuff.
And we assume that's all legit
as if they're not drawing that from Isaiah in the first place.
Such a story on what it is.
I do have a little bit of going on here.
No, but think about this for a second.
And if someone's being crucified for whatever it is,
and let's go with the Talmud,
the Talmud says he was doing sorcery,
leading Israel astray,
he was probably some heretic troublemaker
that didn't like the pharist.
He was bumping heads with the status quo.
That's what I think was going on with this guy.
That's what all the shit points to.
This guy was going against the grain,
didn't like the pharist, didn't like the law,
didn't like the, he was probably a troublemaker
dabbling into maybe some little, some heresy shit, right?
So he gets killed over it.
Person like that is not going to be like this,
have this grand, epic, like, look everybody,
we got the king, we're going to put him in purple,
we're going to put crown thorns on his, no, no, no.
They're just taking him, they're going to throw him on a cross
and that's the end of it.
They're walking away.
All that extra shit is just narrative in the story.
Didn't happen that way.
That's not how any crucifixes went down.
They're not, it's not just like weird, like epic time of like,
oh my God, the king of the Jews is here.
They weren't doing that.
That's all stuff that's being drawn from the ill testament
and applied to Jesus.
What's more likely to happen is he got crucified,
he left his ass on a cross and then threw him
and threw his bones into a ditch
and now we're never going to find him ever again.
They're probably, I think there was no tomb at all.
Oh really?
You're a non-tuner.
Bart Ehrman convinced me of it.
I talked to Bart Ehrman on this and he made this point.
He said he looked for every single Latin, Greek, Hebrew,
Coptic, Syriac manuscript that you could find
that has to do with crucifixions.
None of them bring them to a tomb after.
This is the likelihood that some guy named Joseph Ehrman,
the likelihood that some guy is just going to walk up
and say, hey, that guy you just crucified,
I want to take him down and put him in a tomb.
Let me do it.
It's not going to happen.
Yeah, it's a miracle.
But the thing is too is, yeah, it's a miracle.
And something that Bart brings up is
having a proper burial in the ancient world was huge.
That was like part of your goals in life
is to be buried properly and remembered properly.
And the punishment of crucifixion
was secondarily the torture and the dying part.
The first part, the main part of why
crucifixion was horrible is you didn't get a proper burial.
You were up there on the cross, you got crucified,
you got mocked, and all those things,
you perished on the cross and you stayed up there
for a long time and then your body,
when it was decomposed enough, was taken off the cross,
which would have been a horrible job,
and thrown into a pit.
That was the punishment of that.
They didn't have thousands of tombs ready to go
for dead people.
If you had a tomb, you were someone important.
Yeah, and again, I need to shout out this episode.
Robert and his co-author in this book
make this case that Jesus was essentially
had a message for the rich, right?
So this is something that blew me away
and I'll just quickly touch on this.
But we have the story of Jesus chilling out
with the tax collectors and the prostitutes.
People who put together this queue
think that's historical.
People who bought?
The people who put together the queue,
like Klappenborg and McDonald and all them,
they think that the data suggests
that's something that wouldn't have been made up.
Not saying guaranteed, but their conclusion is
that it's more likely that that rendition
or that portrayal of him, it might be accurate,
that he was probably, it just doesn't sound like something
you just, it's not a cool thing
to be hanging around tax collectors.
Like that's not an entire thing.
That's kind of like a, it's kind of a bad thing actually.
It makes you look like you're a tell-out.
They build the argument that it wasn't controversial
in the first century because there were tax collectors
and prostitutes.
It was controversial because they were rich.
And what Jesus was essentially saying to them
is saying to wealthy people at the time is
people who were rich were essentially associated
with Rome, who was like crushing the Israel at the time.
And all his messages, the first will be last,
the last will be first, bless to the poor in spirit.
His message is actually to the rich,
sell all your shit, join us in our revolution
because we're the coming Messiah, like me,
and the coming Messiah.
God's gonna come with his army
and we're gonna overthrow these Romans, right?
That's the context of what this material understanding
of Jesus puts it in.
And it's just, it makes so much more sense to me.
That's why they come with trouble.
It also explains why they were to kill them.
And why he-
Exactly.
Yeah, it just-
That's like criminal activity, you know what I mean?
This book, like just guys, check out this book.
It's an amazing book.
I'm actually getting a signed copy.
He's sending a signed copy to me.
I told him to write something sassy,
which I tell everyone to write.
It's fun.
But just moving on, not moving on.
This is, I hope everyone's enjoying
this kind of scatterbrained episode.
Yeah.
I feel like Neil and I are both just so excited
and scattered with our thoughts,
but I'm really enjoying, I really always enjoy this.
Yeah.
I mean, we were watching the whole chapter.
It took forever, but-
Oh, wow.
No, hang on.
Yeah, I kind of couple of disagrees.
I better shut up there.
I better take it off.
Yeah.
Hold on, no, but like, I think the-
Smashlock everyone.
I think the main thing is,
when you talk about Isaiah 53,
you gotta, or not just Isaiah 53, Isaiah,
you gotta know the context of the chapter.
You gotta know the time period,
which Isaiah is being written in.
I put that in air quotes
because it's not, it's probably written later,
but like the time period that it's describing itself,
it is the time period of the Babylonian exile.
So you have to realize that.
You have to realize that there's,
it's, there's, they're being sacked,
they're being raided.
There's, there's shit is bad.
There are people who are suffering.
And how many times did I show you
that the suffering servant literally says,
Jacob right next to it?
Yeah.
But for some, and look, this is probably where the,
the Christians get away with this,
is that in the chapter of 53 and 53,
it doesn't have, it, it stops using Jacob
and starts saying he,
the transition happens right around 52, 51.
He started to go, he says it so,
he's saying it so much, my servant Jacob,
my servant Jacob, that he starts just saying he
after a while.
And check this out.
I forgot to mention this actually.
There was actually, it actually switches up
and turns into she.
And where's the Christians at for this one?
Because I forgot to,
let me show you my screen in, in the next chapter
in 54.
So the Messiah was trans is what you're saying.
So I guess, I guess it could be, you could say that
of future glory of Zion, right?
Sing barren woman, you who have never bore a child burst.
And this is the next chapter after 53.
You were never in labor because the more are the children
of the desolate woman than of her who has a husband
enlarge your place of your,
so it's not just he, it's also she.
Which is like, that's another thing.
This is how you know it's the nation of Israel.
Because it's, he's, he's switching up the pronouns now.
You know what I mean?
It's like, it's like, it's, he's,
Isaiah's being poetic about this.
He's personifying Israel as the servant.
See what I'm saying?
Yeah, yeah.
They say that, that makes sense the way I said that or no.
Yeah. So is Isaiah like in general?
Like, can you, what is Isaiah's like main deal?
Like, what is it's like, I've, I only know Isaiah 53.
What is like, I've read Isaiah a long time ago.
But what is it?
But Isaiah is one of the prophets
who is writing during the time of Hezekiah.
He's the one he called out.
He's the one he called out the bear,
the she bears the children, right?
No, that's Elijah.
Oh, Elijah, right?
Yeah, this is before that.
This is way before that.
This is before, this is right before Israel.
It gets sacked.
He's writing about that.
So he's writing about the horrors
that are happening around him.
Israel is being taken and taken over.
He's right. And that's what he's writing about.
By the Babylonians.
And by the way, prophecy in this time period
is very similar to like Greek tragedy where you write.
So you're writing about, you're writing about events
that are happening in the future,
but you're really writing it after the fact.
You're making it seem like it's 20 years prior.
And I'm gonna tell you what's about to happen.
And then like the stage lights turn on.
Like it's like a play.
And but really they wrote it later.
They wrote it 20 years after the fact.
And this is common in prophecy.
This is how there's so many Israel prophecies
that came true where they really didn't,
they were written later.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's wild to me
that I went through ministry college
and I never really learned this.
Like I learned a very Christian version of it.
You'll get the, sometimes the Christians
will admit the virgin thing.
They'll say, yeah, the Hebrew says whatever.
It says the other word or whatever the word is.
They'll, sometimes they'll admit that,
but they'll still sit there and say,
oh, and let me add this too.
This is important.
Yeah.
A lot of like the real, like the good educated
like Christian apologists, I guess you could say scholars.
Like the good one, Delsi Ellison and Dominic Crossen,
those guys, they will never try to sit there
and they all are upfront that the original context
is about Israel, Jacob.
They all say, none of them are trying to fight this at all.
Yeah, but are they all liberal scholars?
Yeah, even William Lane Craig,
even William Lane Craig admitted
that the original context for Isaiah is about Israel
and that it's a double meaning
and then it became about Jesus.
That's his argument.
I can see that, I can see that.
No, that's a fair one.
If you're gonna go with that, go with that,
but at least admit the original context was there.
Yeah, exactly.
I agree with that.
Just quickly too, everyone.
Two little announcements.
If you're on Facebook, I've got to mention this at the start,
we have a new Facebook group for Deep Drinks.
If you've got scholarly stuff, articles, videos,
if you wanna promote your own stuff,
you can drop it in here
and we're building a little community
to talk about the things,
all things religion, philosophy, human rights,
even some science.
If you're interested in any of the stuff we talk about
or you wanna engage, join Deep Drinks as a public group.
It'd be super awesome to build a sweet community there
and if you wanna be a moderator, please let me know
because I'm looking for some moderators
and if I can trust you, I'll put you on there.
So there's that and also we're nearly at 2,000 subscribers.
So if you haven't subscribed,
click and click that subscribe button or Neil.
Oh, you're almost done driving already.
Wouldn't you just, didn't you just hit 1K?
Yeah, like, I know, it's wild.
Look at the, I'll show you the-
That's awesome.
That's 360.
So-
Oh, look at that.
That's you, that's you and you and fucking Derek.
That's you and Derek.
I jumped on you and Derek's channel.
You guys like really gave me that boost there,
but yeah, it's been-
Your channel is great.
Onwards and upwards.
Thanks, thanks.
Thanks, I really appreciate it.
Deep Drinks is, we're not sticking to interviews.
I'm doing some documentaries in the future.
I'm saving up for a Sony a7-4 right now.
I've got a background in film.
Might be changing jobs soon
and doing video and link full-time.
I hope none of my employees are watching,
but you're doing video and link full-time.
So we're gonna bring you some killer content
around religion, philosophy, human rights, science.
Yeah, so that'd be really cool.
Yeah, I'm working on some stuff too right now.
That I like, I'm really starting to like
doing my own personal pre-recorded, highly-edited videos.
Those are the fun projects, you know what I mean?
It's like, you get your ideas going,
you get your notes going, you write up a little.
So I don't do scripts.
I've done a few videos,
you can tell when I'm doing a script,
you can tell when I'm reading something,
but like, I realize those videos don't come out as good.
I like to write notes on a piece of paper
and then look at the notes
and then just talk openly and freely
and then just, it comes out more natural than-
More natural.
Yeah, I think that's a good technique
because what you have in buckets is like passion
and the way you present your ideas.
So I think that it's like more art part of the brain
than like mathematics side of the brain.
It's like-
Yeah, exactly.
You have that, yeah.
I realized something about myself.
So academics are real, they're like sticking to the facts,
being objective.
I'm not an academic at all.
And there's probably a reason why
I shouldn't go try to get like a pursuit degree.
I should just keep going, what I'm doing.
And the reason why is I'm more of a William Durant.
Do you know who William Durant is?
Let me just look him up.
Another name.
He's a historian from the early 20th century.
And-
Oh, no, I don't know him.
The type of historian he was,
he took history at face value and didn't try to like,
and he just kind of wrote,
takes history at face value,
not like blindly accepting it all,
but like looking at the text for what they're written for,
and then writes about it that like,
I think I'm more of an artist than a scholar.
My videos are like, I'm putting out like art.
I'm not even doing like an academic.
Yeah.
Like that's kind of what, I'm kind of cool with that.
Yeah, it's fun.
It's fun to be able to sit on the sidelines
without a horse in the race
and being able to kind of make judgements
and like talk to the experts who do these things
and kind of throw questions at them
and like, you know, pump up their ideas.
Yeah, I'm totally with you there.
Part of me like wants to like get better at,
like do scholarly stuff,
but I'm like, I know as soon as I start,
I'll lose all interest in it.
Like I'll be like-
I got my Greek cards right here.
Like I'm-
Oh, nice.
I am pursuing an education in the sense of like,
I am trying to learn the languages.
I am trying to read the text.
I am trying to know my geography, my times,
my like, I know-
Like I have sick jack of trades understanding of things.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
But that's different.
But a PhD is a specialist in something.
And they're-
You can't betray,
you can't betray like your PhD
by like coming up with like fringe theories
that have no weight behind them, right?
Like, of course you can publish them,
but that's why a lot of PhDs,
they're not comfortable talking about subjects
that even if they know a lot about it,
they still don't really talk about it because-
I know, Dr. Josh Drasmeen is saying when he does that.
It's great.
Amazingly he does that.
The reason why they're like that is because
they know so much in one thing
that they realize that other subjects,
there are other people who know that much in that subject.
So they know that if they start talking about other subjects,
they're gonna look like they don't,
they don't wanna put themselves out there.
It's like, it's a weird understanding.
It's like, it's a very high self-awareness
where it's like-
Yeah.
I almost don't even wanna be like that.
Rather just-
Yeah, I know.
I don't wanna just be loose with it
and be wrong here and there.
Cares, you know.
There is, someone's gonna clip that
and be like, oh, look, Neil is-
Yeah, I don't think so.
Clip it, bitches.
So I work for a surveying and town planning firm, right?
And surveyors are those,
they're kind of the wizards of the urban city.
They walk around with funny hats and poles
and no one really knows what they're doing,
but they're on the side of the road doing stuff,
like surveyors, right?
And you think like, you know, surveyors,
it's a pretty simple job.
You get a laser that tells you what to do.
It is so complicated.
And the more and more I learned about surveying
in like, bearings and distances
and like getting your angles right
the more I realized like how much was involved there,
the more I had respect for almost every field.
I stopped being a conspiracy theorist
in regards to like a lot of things.
When someone tries to explain to me something about vaccines
and they don't have any academic background
about vaccines, I like laugh in their face.
Like it is surveying.
A laser tells you where to put a nail in the concrete
so you can build a pillar or a boundary of a property
is complicated.
What about microbiology?
Damn, dude, like things are immuno immunizations
and all that stuff.
Like in science, like at some point,
you have to just trust the experts in these fields.
You have to.
There are people who like, you know,
we'll spend their whole life and write like a dissertation
on like the type of like wings of a beetle
and they'll write like textbooks and textbooks.
They are the top of the line in the world
at that one subject.
Yeah, on the wings of a top of beetle.
Like it's just, there is so much knowledge out there
and I think you can just like waltz around
and get it all right.
That's why I always try and point to consensus scholarship
with everything.
I do want to move back into the biblical discussions
the last half hour,
but I wanted to kind of talk a little bit more
about what I was saying before
about how the gospel writers seem to be adding more
and more as time went on.
Especially in regards to Isaiah 53.
So I want to read out Mark 16.
Sure.
So this is just after Jesus was crucified,
Jesus died.
And then Mark 16 verse one says,
when the Sabbath was over,
Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James
and Salome brought spices
so they might go and anoint Jesus' body.
So this is assuming that there is a tomb, right?
And which you don't subscribe to,
but we can talk about this.
Very early on the first day of the week,
just after sunrise,
they were on their way to the tomb
and they asked each other,
who will roll away the stone
from the entrance of the tomb?
But when they looked up,
they saw that the stone,
which was very large had been rolled away.
At the entrance of the tomb,
they saw a young man dressed in white robes.
So it's funny how it says man in that anyway,
sitting on the right side and they were alarmed.
Don't be alarmed.
He said, you're looking for Jesus of the Nazarene
who was crucified.
He has risen.
He is not here.
See the place where they laid him,
but go tell the disciples and Peter.
He's going ahead of you into Galilee.
There you will see him just as they told you,
sorry, just as he told you.
Trembling and bewildered,
the women went out and fled from the tomb
and they said nothing to anybody
because they were afraid.
Full stop, end.
That's the end of the end of the original Mark 16.
How was Kelsa's point of that out too?
He was like, that's what we're supposed to work with.
And Kelsa's a pagan writer.
Pagan's still a writer from the second century.
And he's like, you expect me to just drop everything
and follow this guy who, because of that,
that's the story you're getting.
Like it's kind of funny.
What does it take like 15 years later
before another gospel is written
that gives you more information than that?
15 years.
10, 15.
So there is more to the verse,
but it says the most reliable early manuscripts
and other ancient witnesses do not have Mark 16, 9 to 20.
And I've heard a lot of writers say,
look, the reason it was added is because someone,
a scribe would have come along and said,
you can't just end the story there.
And then it was later accounts
where they had the stories of Matthew, Luke, and John.
So what do you make of that?
In regards to like, you can clearly see
how the original, you know, Mark didn't have the,
didn't have the disciples encountered
with the resurrects of Jesus.
It didn't have Jesus descending into the clouds.
Right, none of that.
Didn't have, none of the way.
None of the central Christian shit that happens
to central to Christianity later on.
Like the stuff that you have to believe to be a Christian
post, Nicene Creed, right?
All that stuff.
None of that happened before in this earlier context.
Isn't that interesting?
It's almost like the religion didn't exist yet.
It's just guy you've got it.
Well, also it's super,
back when I was an inheritance, right?
Like I believe the Bible was the inherent perfect way to God.
Well, when I was questioning it, I should say,
but I still, I didn't think it was possible
to believe in God without believing the Bible
was inheritance, but I was questioning.
It was perfect, but I was questioning things.
I thought about it like, I was like, okay, we can't add
and we can't subtract from a Bible.
We just have to take the Bible at what face value.
Okay.
It says Jesus lifted up and went into the clouds,
like off to heaven, right?
So that must mean it seems to apply that it's a,
that heaven is a physical place, like not a spiritual place
because he's flying somewhere.
Secondly, how fast was he going?
That people could see him floating off.
Let's say he was going 50 miles per hour.
That's still pretty fast, but like, you know,
like it didn't say that he accelerated at any time.
Didn't say that he like disappeared
after he got past the clouds.
It just said he was, you know, he went up into the clouds.
If that's the case, he's still going.
Like he's not at heaven yet.
We can see 13.8 billion light years away, right?
If you technically, he's not at heaven yet.
He's not coming back because he hasn't even gotten
to heaven yet, unless you add the fact in that
he disappeared after he got through the clouds
and went to heaven.
In which case, why did he need to rise anyway?
Why when he just disappeared on earth?
Second, or that physical that he sped up
to faster than the speed of light to reach
at least 13.8 billion light years away to where heaven is.
Like it, to me, I was like, you have to be either adding
or subtracting for this.
Otherwise you just have this Jesus character
just literally still in space.
Like, going away.
Well, you know what?
Going away.
Time period.
I'm looking, thinking of the time period and other texts.
The Potheosis of Julius Caesar, a similar thing happens
where the comet Venus comes and picks him up
and takes him up into the sky.
Apparently, Augustus, which is his adopted son,
when he died, something similar happened
where somebody saw him fly up in the sky.
Then you have the wife of Augustus,
what's her name?
Julia, she ascended up in the sky.
And then Claudius, which is some random couple generations.
What is it?
You have Augustus, Tiberius, and then Claudius,
I think it is, no, Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius.
Claudius is right before Nero.
Okay, he, apparently he ascended into heaven.
He got deified.
They saw the same.
So, but then that's in the 50s, right?
That's in the 50s of the common era.
So what I'm guessing is, I'm guessing this is a common trope
of people who are deified.
People, so instead of descending down in the Hades,
because all the sins are weighing you down,
you are floating up in the heaven like the gods are.
So I think what happened with Jesus
is it's just following the common trope of the time period
for people to float up in the heaven.
That means you're a god.
That means you're deified,
which is a popular thing in Greco-Roman mythology.
Not so in Judaism though,
but let's not put a border around Israel
as like their religion separate.
There are influences going back and forth.
So it's not surprising to me that Christians are doing that.
Yeah, it's, you'd actually know this,
and this is a little bit off subject,
but I'd be interested.
There are a lot of apocalyptic preachers
at the time of Jesus, I've heard.
Do you know of any that were apocalyptic preachers
in first century Palestine?
I mean, John the Baptist was one obviously.
I mentioned to Simon the Peraeus.
He was, I think he was crucified.
Judas of Galilee, I think he was throwing off
some fucking rock or something.
They're all killed.
You have Hony the Circle Jar.
You have, didn't he?
Did he build miracles?
They all did.
All did.
All these people are miracle working messiahs.
It was, there's so many.
There's probably 12 to 20 of them at the time.
All over the place.
You have one named Jesus in the book of Josephus.
And he was predicting stuff left and right.
He was a prophet.
He's not torturing him.
And then he pricked, he goes, whoa to me.
And then as soon as he said, whoa to me,
a rock came and fell on him and he died.
He pricked his own death.
Wait, I thought that the Jesus
that Josephus was talking about was.
What's Jesus is in there?
Probably really.
Yeah, it's probably, it's probably Jesus who wants.
There's a Jesus in Josephus's Jewish war.
And while Titus is sacking the temple,
he's walking around going, whoa to Israel.
Whoa to you.
Whoa to me.
And then all of a sudden he dies.
Just random character that isn't even Jesus.
But it shows you the time period.
There's walking miracle workers.
Hanina Bendoza was healing people.
He was living in the wilderness.
Supposedly they thought he was the messiah.
They were attributing in the Talmud.
It's got Isaiah versus attributed to him.
Not Jesus, but to him.
It just shows you.
This is like a common thing at the time period.
This is not like some out of the ordinary thing that,
like it's not that, it's not crazy.
I think this would, this would happen.
You know what I'm saying?
So, okay.
So maybe as we ran out this interview,
let's steal man the best case we can
knowing the information that we have.
How, let's pretend that we're apologists.
Deep Jesus Dave and Gnostic false cross is maybe an informant.
Let's internalize that you know, apologies.
How would you try and defend Isaiah 53 being about Jesus
if you had to?
Let's steal man the position as best as we possibly can.
So, I would do exactly what William Lane Craig said.
I would say, well, it is true that the old context
about Israel being Jacob is clear.
You know, I can't, I have to admit that's true.
But that is not to say that when Jesus came,
this became a double, a double meaning
and it had the old context.
It not only has a new context and it's pointing to Jesus.
That's your best bet.
You have, but you have to admit the context was already there.
You can't get away without it
because everyone already knows this.
It's well done.
I'm gonna, I'm gonna channel my Jordan Peterson.
All right.
Oh, well, you've got to,
it was chaos.
It was chaos back then.
And you've got to understand,
let's get down to brass tax.
The brass tax, we need to understand the context.
It would take me days to answer this question.
It's impossible, but the real question is,
what does suffering mean?
You know, what does it mean?
He would just like, go through all the verses
and just go, what does it mean?
It could mean anything.
What I love about Jordan Peterson is how quick,
how, how he says like some really good shit.
And then he slips in the most dumb like stuff.
Like, you're like, you know, it's good to clean your bed
and it's good to live a good life and have a happy family.
And do we need the Jews?
And also it's good to exercise.
Like, it's not that bad, but like,
or he'd be like, I remember one time he said,
I remember one time he said,
oh dude, he's so, so dumb.
He's losing his mind.
It's like watching somebody like slowly
have their brain melt in front of you.
Just go to the Twitter, just read,
just keep reading them one by one.
He is going nuts over there.
By the way, if you're tweeting that much,
something's not, something that ain't right.
When they're all day on your phone tweeting people,
like, what are you doing?
That's not, I would not be able to live like that.
I can't do that.
I remember seeing, he's like,
well, I've read 50 books on climate change
and I'm not convinced that it's man-made.
And it's like, okay, bro,
like cool that you read 50 books.
Like, what are these 50 books
that the climate scientists don't have?
Like, what information do you have
that climate scientists do have?
Like, what gives you the authority to judge on these texts?
How do you, what level of training,
what level of education have you gone through
that you can, as a individual,
can go into these texts and then describe them?
You're just like, that's where you people lose me.
I read all these books, so I know everything.
No, it's not about reading the books.
You're reading the books.
Yeah, you'll know what the books say.
You might have an opinion,
but you might not know.
You might be losing context
because of the training.
You don't have the training.
You know what I mean?
The thing that's really dangerous about Peterson
is he says some really good shit about psychology.
Some of the stuff he talks about psychology
is like spot on from what I understand.
My psychologists have told me,
I found some of his stuff helpful,
and then he just sprinkles in a little bit of dog shit.
And what's interesting is you can see,
I think the best identification
of how he is kind of a partisan hack now,
and which is sad,
because I don't think you can fully blame him
because the left came after him so hard.
So it's like, of course he's gonna hate the left
because maybe rightly so they came after him.
But he will go on,
he will make fun of gay people and trans people
and say, sorry, not beautiful and shit on Twitter,
to his millions of followers.
And then he gets brought on to talk on a talk show
and someone asks about incels and he starts crying.
Oh, these people, they just didn't break, you know?
And it's like, fucking, what?
Like, are you kidding me, dude?
How many incels are killing themselves
versus how many people in the LGBT community
killing themselves?
Do you care about people
or do you care about the people on your side?
You partisan fuck.
No, he's got the fascist mindset.
He's got it, he's got it.
And then people will roll their eyes
when they throw the F word out there.
But no, he out of all people has that mentality
where the strong, the strong should rise to the top
and the weak have to deal with their lot.
Like that's his mentality.
And you should be a stoic.
You should be, except the lot you're given
and you shouldn't try to change your life
and become who you wanna be.
Shouldn't have individual motives to express yourself
the way you believe who you are inside.
No, no, no, that's bad.
You should accept what you are and deal with it.
That's his mentality.
And that to me is like, so outdated and so useless
at this point in time in the society
that I can't take him seriously.
I used to, when I was,
that was one of the people I read in prison, by the way,
was Peter's, yeah, I used to be a big Peter's
and fan when I was a Christian.
The 12 rules for life, is that what you read?
12 rules for life.
And before that was maps and meaning though.
That's the one I first found my maps and meaning.
And I thought it was so brilliant and smart at the time
when I was reading that stuff.
But then as I started to learn more about
like mythology, history, stuff like that,
I realized that he's kind of a snake oil salesman.
He's kind of just throwing fluff words out there
that make no sense.
Because it sounds smart if you don't know what it is.
You just, oh, he's got a PhD.
It must be something cool.
It must be profound shit.
And then once you actually, if you pick apart
what he's actually saying, it's all just nothing.
It's all just like dualism.
There is, yeah, I mean, when he gets deep and stuff,
but like he does, the reason I think he's so successful
is because a lot of what he says is filling a need
for a lot of people and makes a lot of sense.
But he just has so much dog shit that comes along with it.
No, you're exactly right.
People like myself, coming out of a position in life,
shit isn't not looking good.
I'm coming out of prison.
No prospects, no job, no education.
And then someone like Jordan Peterson is,
yeah, you need a break and you need just to clean your room.
And the world is your oyster.
You should be, you know, that is, of course,
I love that message.
I was so attracted to that message in the beginning.
That was, but I was also very selfish
for me to be like that.
You understand what I'm saying?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Self-centered.
He's attracted to self-centered people
that are in the ditches of the rock bottom.
That's who he's,
and it's no different than Christianity itself
that speaks to you when you're on your rock bottom.
Christianity speaks to you.
No, I think he makes Christianity palatable too.
Like, I think what he does is he re,
this is why he went out and answered the question,
do you believe in God?
He's like, what do you mean by do?
What do you mean by believe?
What do you mean by God?
Like, we have to really not this.
No, I'm just asking the question, do you believe in God?
This is why he won't answer that question
because he's changed the perspective of God
and he's made it a lot more palatable
for people who are too scared to kind of actually question
the idea if there is a God.
We have some amazing super chats and some great questions.
So just to wrap up that whole thing on Jordan Peterson,
I, without joking around,
I would say that I would,
if I was trying to defend this,
I would need to look a lot more into,
there would be ways, there are ways to defend it.
Apologics can get around it.
You can find anything to,
you can make anything work if you try hard enough.
Dee said before, Occam's razor,
like, is it the best,
is it the most reasonable conclusion?
No, I don't think so.
But also, that doesn't matter though,
because like I could then point to,
well, you know, how do you deny the resurrection?
How do you deny Jesus?
How do you deny all the things that he did?
There must be something to it.
So that actually bolsters the claims of the Old Testament,
that he is the Messiah,
because of the stuff that he did on this earth.
But we approach this problem from its original context,
not looking back through the eyes of,
through the lens of Christianity.
Let me just get through some of these amazing
super chats and questions.
Dee, who, I am the biggest fan of Dee,
why don't we take the scripture at what it actually says?
What evidence do we have,
that people lived in riddles back then?
Well, that's a good question.
To take the scripture for what it actually says,
let's go to the context.
Who is Isaiah?
What time is he living in?
What's happening in Israel at the time?
Oh, they're being conquered and they're suffering
and shit's bad.
Oh, now it makes sense.
Now the text makes sense.
But you actually think that in this ancient world,
500 years before Jesus,
they're gonna write riddles for a guy
that they're never gonna see 500 years from now?
What's more likely?
You know what I mean?
So yeah, great question.
What about, there's something I've got to ask.
What about like when it says,
by his straps, we are healed?
He was crushed for our inequities
and by his straps, we are healed.
What does that mean?
I have no idea what that means.
By his straps, we are here, I don't know.
It says, it's Isaiah 53.
It's like what we're talking about.
By his wounds, we are healed.
So what does that mean?
In its context?
Yeah, in the context of like, it being Israel.
It's describing the scene of them being taken captive
and being chained and being taken to Babylon
as a bunch of people who just got their eyes
guided out, guided out.
You know what I mean?
So it's like, but how without healing?
Like, by his...
Because if you actually look at like,
some of the Psalms that write about this,
he's saying that this is like the,
that Israel will be desolate for 40 years,
but then Israel will rise again and be healed.
All that stuff's in there.
So it's like, it's all supposed to be a plan.
It's God just teaching you a lesson
and then everyone will be healed.
So it's like saying, let me translate that to
this year's Australian English.
So it's like, shit's bad right now,
but it had to be bad and it's gonna be good
because it does get good.
And they're writing this text later on
as if it's a prophecy.
You got to remember that.
Okay, okay, yeah.
They know it's gonna get better
because it did get better.
They ended up coming back.
So the later writer is writing this in there
as if it's gonna happen, I'm gonna prophecy it.
And that's the real, actually, that's the...
I'm glad you asked that because that's what
the real prophecy was, was Israel will make it back
and rebuild the temple again.
Nothing to do with this.
Nothing to do with the Messiah at all.
It's about the temple coming back.
Yeah.
Digital Hammurabi, great question.
You know where you lose me?
When you try to establish the necessary grounding
of ultimate preconditions to instantiate formations
of impossible possibilities of such stupid atheists.
Yeah.
You know, I thought we had a problem
when Kenneth Copeland disagreed with us,
but so now I know that we're...
Yeah, this is very true.
Thank you, Digital Hammurabi.
Can you imagine of somebody, a Christian,
actually making that super chat and being serious?
I mean, it's just the way it sounds.
Darth Dawkins does this.
He's quoting Darth Dawkins there.
That's all he does.
Have you seen Darth Dawkins?
Like, have you seen his stuff?
Well, oh man.
So when I look at people like Darth Dawkins
and who's the other one that's on it with that shit?
I can't remember.
I'm a prepositionalist.
Yeah, these are people who, it's a game
and they've been working on this for so long.
They know the answer to everything.
If you say A, they know how to respond with C.
And if you say D, they know how to respond with Z.
They know exactly what to say to Eddie.
They've got a script.
They've got actually a script.
But it's a skill.
They're skilled at it.
Because there's a lot of things that you can say
that will stump a lot of prepositionalists,
but they know how to get out of any jam.
Any jam you throw at them, they know how to get out.
And then you ever notice they never want to talk about Jesus?
It's always about some deistic, some deism theory
that has nothing to do with Christianity.
They never talk about Jesus.
It's just about, it's all about God
being this perfect outside.
It's like a fun chess game.
Bramson obviously, Neil never read 12 Rules for Life
because that preached self-change.
Yeah, I think, I don't think Neil is talking about it.
I've probably read it like 20 times, actually.
I had it in me in my, I had that one as part of my,
one of my possessions that I had when I was in jail.
So, I don't know what you're talking about,
but okay, we barely even talked about that book.
So.
Yeah, I think he was more talking about
how we're going on about Jordan Peterson
or they, how we're going on about Jordan Peterson,
how he says selfless perspective and things like that.
But we're talking more about the context of like,
how he's, like I said, 12 Rules for Life,
like not to be some of it is good shit, I think,
but it's just that he's been part of some hacks.
A lot of it is layered in this,
it's myth, like it's like his own,
his own like expression of mythology
and his dualistic lens that he throws out there.
I don't have the book in front of me,
but I can, I can show you examples where he does this,
where he's, it's all, he takes everything,
he takes everything and turns it into this black and white,
male and female, but good and versus bad thing.
And it's very, to me, I used to love it
when I was first reading it,
thought it was so brilliant,
but then as I started to like,
as I started to, you know, mature in my thinking,
I realized it's very, it's very childish
to see the world that way.
It's very, very simple way to look at the world
and things are more nuanced.
There's, and things like take care of your room
and, you know, speak well and it's like,
is that really something that's so profound
that only he could think of that?
Like it's just like, it's kind of common sense.
No, but I, yeah, it is, but to,
but I think what his gift is,
it's refreshing to some people to hear it
because they don't want to hear that.
Yeah, but that's what I mean by the world is more nuanced.
Not everything is about proper to you is what's good.
Sometimes there are, people have different ways
to express themselves.
Some people, some people,
things aren't just black and white
as he tries to make it out to be.
Yeah, 100%.
Dee, thank you so much for the huge super chat.
Just a thank you for all the interesting topics.
I really appreciate the super chat.
Each little, each penny that we get,
if you become a member or join the patron or super chat
goes towards the new camera that I'm looking to save up for.
And then after that, I'm saving up for tickets
to go to America to do some, do a documentary tour.
And, you know, hopefully I'll get to meet a bunch of you guys
at a bar somewhere.
It'd be really cool if a lot of you guys in America
and Canada, I might have to,
I might have to hop over the border.
I know, is Neil up near Seattle?
Me, I'm in Buffalo.
You're in Buffalo, but is that in what East Coast?
New York.
You're in New York.
Yeah, cool.
I don't know.
The States very well.
Oh, that's right.
I don't know why I'm thinking like everyone knows
where Buffalo is.
Is, is, is Seattle, is, is Derek in East Seattle?
Like up near?
Yeah, that's West Canada.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, cool.
Yeah, so I'm, I'm 20 minutes in the cannon border.
Yeah, cool, cool.
So I'll have to do, I'll do a bit of a, I'll have to,
if I end up going over there, I'll have to like visit you
and, and Derek and kind of head up and visit a posse
to see in my Canada buddies up there as well.
It'd be really cool.
John, Gia, thank you for the super chat.
Again, this all helps.
What about the lobster, Neil?
That's another, that's another big part
of the 12 rules for life where he talks about lobster.
Oh, is he referencing lobster again?
He talks about how lobsters have serotonin like humans.
And he said that lobsters will,
if a lobster goes and fights for a mate,
two male lobsters, they go and fight over the female.
The winner of that fight will live the rest of their lives
in like perfect, happy conditions.
And like they'll be really successful.
The loser will go into depression
and kill themselves or something.
So he's trying to make it seem like a nature at its core
is all about like proceeding and surviving
and being the best and like you, and like don't go into,
don't be the, don't be the loser, depressed one.
And like, are you staying all of this
while battling with, with, with,
while taking large amounts of benzos?
And like, it's such a, it's so crazy.
I mean, it's, it's such a fraud, dude.
I'm sorry.
I don't want to keep talking about it.
And a lot of, a lot of neuroscientists that read this
were like, this is not accurate.
He's, he's spewing.
He has no idea what he's talking about with the lobster thing.
So I can't tell you what he's wrong about,
but I've heard people say that the shit he says
about lobsters is like, he's just, he's, he's riffing.
He's riffing.
He just steps, he just always seems to step outside
of the realm of his expertise.
And, and very convincingly too.
It convinces a lot of people.
He thinks he's, because he's got, he's a PhD in one place.
He's an expert everywhere.
Climate change, anything, it doesn't matter, you know?
So yeah, yeah, I know.
And climate change is a huge issue
that people don't take seriously enough.
Ray Oshima said, only a small amount of Jews left Babylon.
And then Dee said, yes.
What's that?
Only a small number of Jews left Babylon.
When they went back, yeah.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
So what's the context?
Can you give me the, cause I, this is, this is like, ask,
this is like, this is way after the fact.
This is when they returned.
Yeah.
So King, this is actually mentioned in Isaiah, by the way,
where, okay, Isaiah says that in seven, chapter seven.
He says, Cyrus, my anointed one.
You know, your plan will be to restore Israel, the remnant.
And you will, and that's when the second temple will be built
and all that stuff.
So, and it's true that when they returned,
a lot of them stayed back.
I don't know the amounts.
I don't know if it's a small, I have no idea.
But I do know that a lot of them did stay in Babylon
because they liked their lives there.
Oh, you know what?
I actually had another verse that I wanted to share
real quick regarding, it's from Sahn.
And then, and then I want to ask you about a question
a brief history of Israel because-
This is perfect.
Yeah.
Oh, actually-
Yeah, yeah, I'll do my best.
Like I'll answer what I know.
And then everyone-
If you've got any questions, drop them in.
If you definitely want to answer and super chat them,
I'll appreciate it, but we go.
Yeah.
Those who escaped this from the sword,
he carried away to Babylon.
And they were servants to him
and his sons, the rule of Persia.
Okay.
Look at this, Psalm 137.
By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat and wept
and we remembered Zion up the willows in the midst of it.
We hung our harps for our captors to see.
This is like, this is a tragedy.
You know what I mean?
Like they're looking back at what happened
and saying, this was horrible.
So this is where you get your, this is where you get all this.
This is how you understand the suffering servant motif.
It's all here.
But yeah, so what happened is,
here it is right here, Ezra talks about it.
And the first year of King Cyrus,
of Cyrus, King of Babylon, King Cyrus issued a decree
to rebuild this house of God
as the gold and silver utensils
to which Nebuchadnezzar had taken
from the temple in Jerusalem.
So everything's all good now.
Everything, all the stuff they lost is being brought back.
But from what I've, from what people say,
it's true that a lot of them stayed in Babylon
and just stayed living out there as people out there,
you know?
Okay, so, and this might be a question
for Digital Hammurabi, who's in chat,
but he likes to usually just jump in,
use all atheists and then just leave and walk out of there.
Yeah, but just a bit, but because he's not here.
He's probably cringing that
some of the shit I'm saying, cause I don't.
And because Kip, and because Kip has something metal to do
than to join Deep Drinks again,
gonna have Kip back on.
I love Kip.
We, me and him just talk about metal bands
and stuff all the time over over chat
and drama that's going on in the atheist community.
But so what I understand is there is,
there was no, archeology pretty much is like unified
on the fact that there definitely was no major exile
from Egypt, that if you were to take the numbers
that are in the Bible, you know,
they could see them from Israel.
From Egypt, so the Exodus.
Oh, you're saying that you're saying archeology shows it happened?
No, it didn't happen.
Oh, okay. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Go ahead.
Yeah, yeah. They're pretty, they're pretty unified on that.
And yeah, like the Israelites could like hold,
they could stay in hand by hand and reach the promised land.
And it took them 40 years in the desert.
And also, you know, like, like by the time,
if they went single file by the time the first ones
got to Israel, the people in Israel
and people in Egypt still wouldn't have left yet.
And we know that a lot of the stuff with the Jericho
and all that stuff didn't happen.
So, so, and I want to do, I'm doing a video
about on this with, with Digital Hanrami
for the patron actually, a page,
and I'll be making a video of it later on.
But essentially, just give everyone a tease now.
The exodus, was exodus written in the time
that Israel was in captivity by the Babylonians?
Or was it like, how was, like, how did,
where do we get this text from?
Cause to me, I've heard us something about that.
It was like a, it was like a polemic
against Mesopotamian civilization.
And it was like Israel's battle cry
to like create a story and a mythos
of their kind of identity.
I think that in my personal opinion, I could be wrong.
From what I've gathered so far,
most of the Bible was written second temple period.
There might be, so, and the stories themselves
might be older, but they don't get officially
written down in the form that we have it
until second temple period.
So, it's all, it's all later texts, basically.
And even if, like I said, the stories,
they're, they're writing about older, like Job,
I think is an older story.
It doesn't even mention Israel, I don't think.
It's very old.
But the four, like I'm saying,
the form that we have it in is written
probably sometime in second temple period.
That's what's happening.
I could be wrong.
I'm open for someone to check out.
And when you say second temple period,
what does that mean?
After they came back from Persia.
Okay, okay, cool.
All right, give us a, can you give us a five minute,
like Israel from beginning to Jesus' time?
Can you give us like a few minutes of like,
what happened?
This is one, I'll try this out.
All right, and if you're a Bible scholar
who actually knows-
Don't kill me.
If I had to like-
Comment when you was wrong.
If someone was quizzing me right now
and I had to turn in my paper to see how good I do.
That's what I would say.
I would say Israel started off as a city-state
of Jerusalem area and a very small, not a giant nation,
like it's described in later texts.
And, you know, you get your Meneptus Stella,
you got your Moshe Stella,
it's being mentioned and like drive passer by
as like a city-state, just like any other city-state,
like the Philistine cities, you know, Gaza,
and like you have Israel or Jerusalem.
And maybe it was two cities,
maybe there was one in the North, one in the South.
That I don't really know, but all I could say is,
the best part, I think the best person to listen to on this
is Israel Finkelstein.
He's like, the archeology shows
that there's really wasn't shit going on here.
It's just backwater.
Like there's a small little area, maybe a small kingdom.
And then like, it's probably becomes,
like the Bible starts getting more accurate after Solomon.
So David and before David, it's all like mythical
and like legendary.
And then like after, and like, you know, Hezekiah,
all of a sudden now we can see like, oh, Hezekiah,
oh, there really was a war.
Oh, there really is an underground tunnel.
There really was water.
Like, oh, now things are becoming more historical, right?
But what I think happens with the Exodus,
I'm gonna back up a second per second.
I think the Hicksos as a people of Egypt,
they're the memory of this dynasty for whatever reason.
Cause they, they actually, it turns out,
they actually didn't worship ball.
And they have a lot of commonality with people living
in Syria, the Hittites, the people living in,
you know, what would be Israel.
And so there might be some of those traditions surviving.
And what I think happens with the Exodus is they write
a story that didn't exactly happen,
but it's sort of like allegorizing the Hicksos expulsion.
Maybe as far as I'll go with the Exodus,
that's what I think might have happened with why,
why is there an Exodus?
So because Israel was just part of Egypt for a long time
for like 2,000 years, 1,000 years.
It was just part of the Egyptian colonies
up until like the 20th dynasty, 19th dynasty,
something like that.
And then they split off, become, you know, Canaan.
And so what I think happens is those, those,
that like collected memory of like people talking about it
and it getting preserved on, on Stellas or whatever,
funerary texts, stuff like that.
And that becomes a national epic of the star of, of,
like you get Moses, you get David,
you get those type of characters.
I think with Isaiah, I think with Isaac,
Jacob, Abraham and Joseph,
I think what you're getting is,
you're getting succession stories based off of
the surrounding myths of these theogonies,
the Phoenician theogony, Hesiat's theogony,
there's Hittite theogonies, there's Egyptian theogonies.
And I think they're, what they're doing is,
I think they're sort of taking those stories
and then they're very much like how Jesus is,
their stories being placed on the Jesus.
I think you can see the same thing with Abraham,
Isaac, Jacob and Joseph.
For example, Abraham, the story of Abraham
looks a lot like the story of Saturn and Chronos.
So I think there might be something going on with that.
And then so you have,
so now you have these national legends
that brings us, now I'm going to go back
to where I was with the time of Hezekiah
and now all of a sudden those kings that are listed
and kings and Chronicles are pretty much real kings
who ruled for as long as people think they ruled for.
And then you get to the Nebuchadnezzar,
Sax the North first takes over,
Jerusalem kind of survives for a little while
and then they get taken over
and then they get brought to Persia and whatever,
Axema, 40 years or whatever.
Cyrus conquers the Babylonians.
Then you have the Persian Empire.
Then you get the second temple period
and some Zerubbabel character builds the temple.
And that that building process doesn't stop until Herod
like changes, like the building of the temple is like,
it's just like constant for the next like 200 years.
And so what I think happens during that period
is when you start getting all these texts
like Daniel, Maccabees,
basically the Bible is written during this time.
That's what I think.
So then that brings us to the Hellenistic period,
Alexander the Great conquers the whole East,
Hellenization happens, then the Hellenized period comes.
That's when you start getting Greek influences
into the text, you get Maccabees, you get Daniel,
you get those texts.
And then you end up getting,
writers like Jesus Sorak, more wisdom literature.
You see some like Orphic stuff happening.
You get Thilo of Alexandria, first century BCE
and then Christianity.
Nice.
Yeah, so it's a long and wild story there.
Hang on, let me just show you.
What's important real quick is that
I'm gonna get something.
Yeah, so Herodotus, when he writes his book
and his histories in 5th century BCE,
no mention of Israel, no mention of Jerusalem,
no mention of any King David or anything like that.
So that makes me think that based off the archeology
by Israel Finkelstein, combined with Herodotus,
having no mention, I think there are probably
just a small city-state for a long time.
Yeah, there's this that I wanna show off.
It's the Robert Ulter translation
and commentary of the Hebrew Bible.
One professor translates the whole Hebrew Bible
over a course of like, oh God,
I think it was like 30, 40 years.
He was just doing one thing after another
after another after another.
And then he's publishes like, you know,
he did one book and he's publishes like,
you know what, you should do the full Bible,
full of Hebrew Bible.
And this is him there, Robert Ulter, very cool guy.
But look at this thing.
So this is the Hebrew Bible and commentary.
Or this is, yeah, this is pretty cool.
Yeah, and it's just so dense.
And a lot of, he takes a very modern,
writing style to it.
But he, the way that he translated this,
it's very different from the King James
or something like that where he cares less about,
he cares more about like, I guess,
accuracy in our understanding now,
like versus like the poetic nature
of how it was originally written as like parts of poetry
and how King James is very poetic and things like that.
I've dug in a little bit into this, but not much.
But yeah, I wanna, I wanna get through all of this.
The, there's an audible version
that is just the Bible without the commentary.
And it's really beautifully written and read as well.
I'm gonna, that I bought, but it's something like
80 hours or something or 70 hours.
Like I don't know, it's like a lot, it's a lot of time.
So we've got a few last questions as we wrap up.
Graham said, I'm currently questioning
whether Second Temple Judaism was primary creation
of the Hasmoneans and there was no,
there was not much evidence
of full blown Second Temple worship before then.
I see what he's saying.
He's like, the Hasmoneans sort of bring in this,
bring in this new type of, I don't know, it's a new period.
So a new period, new people, new times.
That's just how our culture is.
Things never stayed the same for any,
things always are changing.
So you can never, and like that's another thing
I used to think when I was a Christian is like,
I used to think from the time of Abraham
down to the time of the last king of Israel,
they all had the same thoughts on God.
They all thought the same thing.
Like, no, it's, it's fairytale, dude.
That's not how things work.
People change, culture changes, influences from,
from outside areas, the Egyptians, the Babylonians,
the Assyrians, the Persians, the Greeks.
That's all factoring in how these things are being done.
Yeah.
There's, I just Googled when the exodus happened
and according to Google, 13th century,
yeah, 13th century BCE, just on the Google search,
which is interesting
because Ray brings up a really good point.
There was no written language before 9th century BCE
prior to the LBAC, which I don't know what that is.
The official language was Akkadian cuneiform.
Right.
And, and you have hieroglyphics in Egypt.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, but like, in regards to like,
it's such a good point.
It's such a good, and alphabets aren't thriving
until way later.
And so that's what I'm saying.
If, if, if there's any connection
between the Hicksos and the exodus,
it would have to be through some deep
or allegorical oral tradition being told about a story.
And like, it's, it's not one for one.
You can't say the Hicksos,
you can't say the Hicksos are the Hebrews.
Just, you can't do that.
It's not true.
It's not true.
It's way more like, you can connect the two
and say there's some things that are happening
between the two of them.
There might be some connections.
I'm okay.
I think that might be something going on there.
But like the time periods don't line up.
The, the Hicksos worship more than one God.
They're not like these, like they're not proto Israelites
at all.
That's very like, you know, you get what I'm saying.
I do.
So a few years before that too,
it's like 1600 pieces, 1600 pieces for the Hicksos.
It's so, it's so, it's so amazing.
Like this stuff is also interesting to me
that I have, that I have the freedom to like kind of not
have to protect my beliefs as I kind of read
into this stuff as well.
But guys, go check out.
I mean, everyone here has to be subscribed
to NOSC and Formant.
If you're not, what are you doing?
But you got 520 videos, 43,000 subscribers
and you're just pumping out content
after content after content.
Don't go to him and talk about mythosism.
He's done, he's done with mythosism.
He's fucking never doing it again.
There's been a lot of drama in the community
about that lately.
Also guys, please join the deep drinks group
and start just pumping out cool videos, content
like anything that you think is really awesome.
We'd love to see it over in deep drinks.
You got full permission to post anything
as long as it's related to religion, philosophy
and human rights.
And it doesn't break any of the rules
against like beatry, racism and all those things.
It's hard because some of the posts I know
will be critiquing religion
as long as it's done in a respectful way,
okay with that and everything.
But yeah, it's a safe space for it.
It's gonna be a safe kind of community for everyone.
I'll be banning like anti-Semitic people
and so like that with that question.
And of course guys, tomorrow, tomorrow,
tomorrow is the amazing panel.
Purity culture, horror stories.
It's gonna be some wild ones.
I mean, we have Nicole coming on.
The pasta turned porn star.
That's awesome.
I'm sure she's gonna have some wild stories about it.
And you know.
It's a hero right there.
That's a hero, seriously.
Family Dr. Ben has like, it's super interesting
because Ben's a trans man and he's experienced
both sides of purity culture
because he kind of grew up in it.
And like it's gonna be an interesting conversation.
Ferrell Pass's wife, Emily, on the very left here,
she actually is the one to come up with this story.
She has a TikTok series called Purity Culture Horror Stories
where she reads out comments from her subscribers.
And Jeremy is a family and marriage therapist
who actually reached out to me
just as I announced this on Derek's channel and Stacey.
The amazing apostasy
has got some really cool stuff to share.
And she's just like, she's an open book
and she just has, she's just,
I feel like me and her are twins in a lot of way.
We have a lot of similarities in the way of thought
and with the shame and the guilt
that it was attached to sex.
And so that's gonna be super interesting.
And of course, I have some fucking doozies of some stories.
So we're talking about purity culture, the pros,
not the pros, sorry,
the cons of how it can warp your thinking.
Some of our horror stories,
also hate can get over purity culture
if it has affected you in your life.
And obviously, we're not gonna be promoting the fact
that everyone should just go be sleeping around,
something like that.
It's not like the idea of like, yeah, fuck yeah,
hedonism and just do whatever you want.
It's not that, it's just talking about the negative aspects
of what purity culture can do to people
because it's definitely affected me.
Just to give everyone some context,
my wife and I, we didn't sleep together
until our wedding night, right?
So we, my wife was a virgin.
I had slept with some people back when I was a dirty sinner.
Not, I didn't have much experience though,
I'll tell you that much.
But we waited until our wedding night
to have sex for the first time.
And we had sex, it was good.
In fact, I was laughing at everyone at the hell,
like I'm like, people are lasting three minutes.
We went for like 45 minutes.
You know, it turns out I was just really about the sex
cause like, you know, eventually,
eventually you're like, you know,
I've got like three minutes and I'm like sweating like, oh God.
As we got better, we knew our buttons a lot more.
Anyway, it was fun times.
But after that, I still had guilt and shame
to do with sex.
And I would have anxiety attacks around sex
even though we waited until marriage and-
The most natural thing in the world has become-
I know.
It's crazy.
So, you know, nine times out of 10,
I would have anxiety either before sex or after sex.
And only one time out of 10,
I would just feel good about the whole situation.
And that's just something that, you know,
it's taken a while for me to kind of,
and I'm not fully over even after 10 years of marriage,
but, you know, to kind of learn how to have a healthier
relationship with sex and have biological urges.
And, you know, somewhere between doing cocaine
with strippers all night
and having a loving monogamous relationship,
like somewhere in between,
like just a healthy balanced approach to sexuality
and getting to the nuts and bolts of things.
So, come along tomorrow.
It's gonna be a wild one.
We've got some fun drinks, some fun guys.
It's gonna be great.
Thank you, Neil, for coming on, Deep Drinks.
I really appreciate it.
And thank you everyone who's super chatted
and asked amazing questions as well.
And thank you to the members of the channel
and to the Patreon supporters.
I really appreciate it.
Oh, we'll end there.
Thanks for coming on, Neil.
Thank you.
That's been my, I love it.
It's fun.
Awesome.
All right.
See you guys.
Whistle.
You
