Oh, it's very spicy. It's so blasphemous to even think like that for a Christian.
The Suffering Servant is a collective noun to mean all of Israel.
It's only that one chapter that Christians take the liberty of changing the meaning of the
Suffering Servant to mean the Messiah. I didn't know that all four of the Gospels were written
by ghost writers. I didn't know the history of how the Bible was written, who wrote it,
how long it took to be wrote, how many years it took to become canon,
how many times Revelation was in and out and in and out. I didn't know any of this until afterwards.
Well, welcome everybody to the Deep Drinks podcast. My name is Dave and with me
tonight or today, depending on what timezone you're in, we have the lovely Deborah Grace,
the author of Crucifying the Bible. And as you can see, this book is, it may be small,
but it is dense. Like this thing could be used as like a study guide for, I guess,
your ideas that you present in this book. And yeah, I got the, originally I got the audio version.
Love that so much. I had to buy the physical version because it's just so filled with references
that yeah, I'd recommend anyone checking it out. So welcome Deborah Grace.
Thank you so much. I'm very happy to be here.
Oh, well, I'm super excited to have you on here because you're literally the first author we've
ever had on the Deep Drinks podcast. And what are we drinking for the Deep Drinks podcast?
We are drinking Frangelico. Frangelico. Yeah, Frangelico. Yeah.
I've never had this before. This has been my first time ever tasting it.
You suggested it, so I went out and got a bottle and I was like, okay, whatever the
guest suggests as long as it's possible. So how do, so how do I drink it? Oh, you've got one of
those glass. I've got a little whiskey glass. It works in a shot glass. It's a little bit of
hazelnut flavor. I'm going to, I'm, I'm a purist. I'll be going back. Oh, okay. Okay.
I got the same glasses. Oh, nice. You gotta have it. So, so you just drink it.
Yep. Yep. That's the way it is a really, it's a really interesting book, both for
for anyone who's interested in religion, especially if you're a Christian or an
atheist. And what I really like about it is you kind of break it up into two sections. So
there's a part, the second part of the book you say is explicitly for people who want to
push further into the rational parts of the book. And that's why I thought that was really respectable.
Yeah. I had to, because I knew how hard it was jumping from, okay, now I don't really buy into
the whole New Testament thing. But going further and dismissing the Old Testament after doing my
research and my study, it was even more jarring. And I knew that even I took a little bit of a
breather between the two, I took a few weeks, three or four weeks between the two,
were before I started researching the Old Testament. And it was, it was jarring. And I
just, I didn't want to put that kind of heaviness on somebody else if they weren't ready for it.
So I told people, you know, you may not want to read this section at all. And that's fine.
I respect that. But if you do, here you go. But put, you know, get ready.
Yeah. And it's really, I think that's really responsible, because I think a lot of the time
people don't have don't, they aren't so empathetic towards how much religion means to some people.
When I was a, when I was a believer, I literally, I didn't, I was never put in this situation.
So I don't know how I actually would have reacted. But if someone held a gun to my head,
no doubt in my mind, I would have said, yep, I would take the bullet before denouncing Jesus.
Like, it was worth, worth more than my life. So for people to investigate that is actually
quite hard emotionally. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's almost traumatizing.
And in some parts it is, because it really brings to the surface all of the RTS symptoms that come
about with you, you finally make that connection, you go, Oh my gosh, I've literally been indoctrinated.
I have been brainwashed. I have been even abused by this religion. I have been economically abused
if you're, if you've been told not to read other things, not to look over here, not to do this.
I have been gaslit by the scriptures. I have been the, the, the, what's the other word I'm
thinking of projection has been placed on me rather than the original fault.
There's so many different aspects, almost every single, if not every single
type of abuse found in the DSM five is checked off in the Bible. And that's really, that's,
you know, forms of abuse. All of those are mental abuse and emotional abuse.
They're all there. And that can be really, really heavy for somebody who finds that out
as they're exiting religion. So it's, it's, it's really psychologically damaging.
I, the first person I interviewed on this podcast was a friend of mine that I met in
ministry college and he was a closeted homosexual for 40 something years. And when the same sex
marriage bill came through Australia, he decided to look into the Bible and really study what
the Bible said about homosexuality. And he discovered that a lot of the assumptions he
was brought up to believe in weren't necessarily true. And then he decided through a long process
to eventually come out of the closet and live his authentic self. And the, it was, it was very
hard to kind of see one of my best friends learning to kind of, he didn't have the skillset
anymore to deal with like life. Like, so, and I think this is where like a lot of people talk
about the prodigal son, like people, they learn these things, these things and how to deal with
the world through Christianity or through their religion, then they, they have some things that
question their religion about, or it doesn't really work for everything they want to be,
they kind of leave. And then now they don't have that, they don't have the way that way to deal
with the world anymore. And then they come running back to religion. And then the religious person
sees that as like, as like confirmation that their religion is true. And, and maybe the person as
well. And it's like this self perpetuating thing that religions tend to do. And they can bring
a lot of people happiness, but I don't know how true that happiness is sometimes.
But yeah, it's very shallow. Because the, the familiarity that people have in their abuse,
in their box of being damaged by religion can be addictive. It's the same with those that are
addicted to the cortisol hormone. When you're stressed out, and you're worried, or you're
anxious, people can't actually become addicted to those feelings and those
hormones that our body releases in that trauma. And so when somebody goes outside of religion,
and they don't work on healing themselves and doing the shadow work and trying to find resources to,
to mitigate all this abuse, then yeah, coming back to it is the familiar safe place.
Because they, they know how to cope in that, in that trauma, it's not healthy. But it is,
that's why it is so psychologically damaging. And why, part of why I felt that urgency to
write my book once I started it. Well, this conversation is already super interesting. And
I can just see that we can naturally just bounce off each other really, really easily.
We seem to think quite similarly. But I did want to actually mention what your book's about. So
your book, well, maybe you can describe your book actually better. Essentially you,
you were, maybe you should just explain it better, because essentially you were a Christian,
and then you study the word more strongly, and then you convert to Judaism.
Oh, I converted to messianic, Hebrew roots messianic is really what it was.
Yeah. So the very first, the preface really goes into the whole backstory. Just, and I know it's
long, and I apologize to the readers for that. But I really wanted to sort of encapsulate my,
my journey in that section of the book, because the book itself is, is really all about
using the scriptures to show why it cannot support itself. First, the New Testament,
and then the second section is, is going into the Old Testament and
the whole picture, the view from 50,000 feet. But the first part, the preface really goes into my
journey, and how I went at analyzing the scriptures using things like modus tollens,
and the different fallacy, fallacies, and the biases that are found in the, the study of critical
thinking. And so I really just picked apart each little Christian apologetic, the main
arguments that the Christian apologists put forth to non-believers. And then I said, well,
okay, that's your argument, but here is actually what the Bible says.
So, you know, let's bring context here. Let's show you every side of it, all the facets,
and don't just have the myopic biblical glasses on. Let's look at this in full, in the full spectrum
that it deserves. Cool. So it's, it's a super interesting book and something that I never
considered when I was a Christian, which was essentially that Jesus doesn't necessarily
meet the criteria for the Messiah. And it's a question that it's really interesting because
it's like, it seems so obvious, like, well, if Christianity is obviously true, and people
say that, Christianity is obviously true, the prophets say it, why are there still,
why is there still Judaism? Like, that makes no sense. Like, I never question that one question.
And so I have this little list here of some things that I picked out of your book
that I'd like to kind of read out. And if I've misunderstood anything, let me know,
but I'll read it out one at a time. So in the, in the Old Testament, God never said that He will
resurrect a Messiah, or that He will, or that we will have to believe in a Messiah to be saved,
or that we will pray to a Messiah. The Old Testament does not contain a single prophecy
of the Second Coming. The Messiah will usher in worldwide peace that no one will know war anymore.
So that's what the Messiah was supposed to do. And obviously, we have some wars still today.
Sin sacrifices were not to be anointed, and yet Jesus was anointed. So that would be going
against the laws of the Old Testament. And it is a violation for someone to die on behalf of
someone else's sins. That's another law of the Old Testament. There's no heaven or hell in the
Old Testament. That's something super interesting. And if anyone is interested in that, I recommend
Bart Ehrman's book, Heaven or Hell. It's quite a good book. And finally, a new covenant does not
negate an old covenant. So these are some, these are some little, some little like
points that while when I was a Christian, that would have really thrown me,
thrown me for a loop. Like I would have, I would have been like very confused by that.
And your book goes over in detail, those, those points and many others.
Yeah. Yeah. I found that it was very, there were points that I had thought of, and I was really
trying to go at, because having been there, I knew the arguments that the Christians bring forth.
So I was really trying to think of it, not just critically, but I was really trying to put myself
like I was a lawyer in a courtroom asking specific questions that most people wouldn't
think to even question. So I was really thinking, all right, so, you know, they say that Jesus
fulfilled the law perfectly. Well, okay, let's, let's look at what the law says. And, and having
been in the Messianic Hebrew roots, I knew quite a bit at those laws. So I pulled up, you know,
this, the, the mitzvahs, and, and went through them. And when I got to the sin sacrifice laws,
I'm like, wait a minute. He said he fulfilled the law perfectly, but the crucifixion violates
every single sin sacrifice law. How can you be an atonement for sin when your sacrifice, quote,
unquote, violates the law, which is sin. Sin cannot be an atonement for sin.
How do, so like, I imagine that I'm just guessing here, but I haven't looked into it, but I imagine
that they were just someone who tried to defend that would just do special pleading, like they
would just say, well, it was different for Jesus because he's God. Is that how they generally
sure? Sure. However, when you, when you look at the Old Testament, the first five books of
the Old Testament are said to be Torah, the law. And in that, you find several verses that say that
it, you know, it's an abomination. It's a, it's a violation of the law for any man to die for
anybody else's sin. Okay. And then people are like, but, you know, Jesus was God. Well, in the book
of Hebrews in the New Testament, they call Jesus fully human. These are the writings that are in
your Bible that you call infallible, that you call the perfect Word of God and inspired.
So how do you square that? How do you reconcile these two very obvious dichotomies of a sin
sacrifice? Yeah. And it's at this point that I imagine when you say in your book,
the ad hominem attacks begin, I imagine at that point, when you bring up that,
that's when they start saying, you just want to sin or you, like, why do you,
you, are you doing this and et cetera, et cetera? Is that, is that essentially what happens? Because
that's what happens to me when I ask the same questions or similar. Very often. Yeah. Very
often they're like, you know, well, who are you to, to, to be judging the Word of God and like
prove that it's the Word of God. Yeah. How can you prove that it's the Word of God
outside this claim? The Bible is the claim. It cannot simultaneously be the evidence.
Yeah. So, you know, using scripture to prove scripture is circular reasoning and you're proof
texting your narrative. Yeah. So it's, it's, you know, I will call them out on the ad hominem
attacks and I'll be like, let's stick to the topics. You don't, we don't need to go to ad
hominem. You know, let's stick to this topic, this subject and see if you can squirt. And I had
somebody who, who said, yeah, let's debate. Here's my phone number. Call me. And I'm like,
I'm not, I'm not calling you. I have a discord channel. Let's go over here. No, you're trying
to run away from the debate. Okay. All right. I'll call you from my husband's phone. He can,
he can be the emcee or they, right? Yeah. And I called and they never answered.
Several times. That's amazing. That's an amazing message. I'm going to call you in 15 minutes.
You know, you just said five minutes ago, let's do this. And now you're not answering your phone.
Yeah. I recently put out a video on my channel that has to do with science. And so it's not
necessarily God based or anything, but I had two people. It was so funny. One person said that
would debate me and come on my channel if I could recommit in my life to Jesus. And I was like,
it wasn't, I didn't have anything to do with God. But I was like, what? Like, okay. And then the other
person said he had five Twitter followers and he said that I can't afford his fee. And I said,
oh, I'll give you, I'll give you a dollar for every Twitter file you have to come on my show.
And he said, how about we start with 25 K and I'm like, 25 K. Okay. I was like, all right,
this is, this is hilarious. Like you're very, very strong on all your points, but you won't
defend them anyway. So it's just found it's super interesting how people are challenged
to things and they dodged stuff. Now I need to have a sip of this because I haven't had a sip.
And you say this is delicious. So I want to take a sip and you just have a neat, right? Okay. Yeah.
And you are correct. This would be delicious over ice cream or something, right?
It actually would. Yeah. Oh, that's so good alcohol. It's smooth. Oh, it's not that alcohol.
But it's 12 PM. It's 12 PM here in Australia, but in Australia, day drinking is totally acceptable.
So great. Well, it's 40 proof. I mean, that's kind of strong. Yeah, yes. So if I
find her then wine. Yeah. If I finish the bottle, my wife will come home from shopping and I don't
know, it'll be funny. So I want to talk a little bit about your journey. So a lot of people might,
I imagine the first thing that we'll go to is, what kind of a Christian were you? Like, were
you really like, were you just brought up as a Christian or were you like, you know,
super, super sane Christian, like super, super Christian? And so I wanted to ask you like,
did you ever, so did you grow up a Christian? Did you have like a saved moment or a
pentecostal moment? Were you involved in a pentecostal church? Cool. So I remember the day
that I accepted Jesus as my Lord and Savior. I was five years old wearing a yellow dress with
white polka dots in Sunday school. And then, you know, I put it in my book and all the different
times and why, but baptized six times. And there was a reason for, you know, as an infant, because
you know, that's what they do. And then a few other times, the last one was to solidify my
conversion to Hebrew roots, because I wanted to do it in the running waters of a river,
fresh waters of a river, trying to mimic as close to Jesus baptism as I could.
So yeah, we read the Bible from cover to cover and then start again as children. I would
play Bible trivia with my family. And I was homeschooled for four years. So that's sort of
even further solidified my creationism as, you know, that getting away from the science in those
early, impressionable years, I was taught creationism.
Like Younger's Creationism? Yes. Yes. Well, the Ken Ham, the Ken Hoven.
I don't think I ever, I didn't even know about Ken Hoven until a couple months ago. So I don't
think I was exposed to his specific leanings. But, you know, we had the curriculum that taught it.
And my family, my dad wrote Christian songs, very folk style. And we would go to different
churches and sing his songs. And we had Pentecostal churches. I was in a Baptist church for a couple
years. You know, just the evangelical, like the New Hope and the Calvary Chapel. And the,
that's really big in the United States. I don't know if it is there.
Is it like, is Calvary like Jesus' culture and all that?
It's, yeah, it's, it's very, it's more modern, big church, you know.
Like Hillsong kind of?
Yes. Yes. Like Hillsong type of, or elevation, or that type of church.
So, you know, went to those types. And then there was a couple of extreme ones. I went
to a church called Dunamis. It's a Hebrew word that means power of God. And the, they were very
into hands-on healing and yelling at spirits. And, you know, like right up on your stomach,
trying to yell at the, the sickness or the demons that were in you, trying to, you know,
like, like Kenneth Copeland, blow them away, you know.
Yeah. Smith Wigglesworth style.
The breath of God. Yeah. Or the Benny Hinn style. It was, it was very-
Did you experience, did you experience, like, did you,
ever speak in tongues or did you experience miracles or things like that? Or did you see
miracles? Or what's the craziest, I would say, quote-unquote spiritual experience that
you experienced in one of these meetings?
Well, trying to be slain in the spirit, you know, trying to push my head back and get me to,
to, they've tried that several times. And I just never had that supernatural experience.
I never spoke in tongues. I tried to just blabber and sound like, you know, what everybody else
was doing, but it wasn't natural. It wasn't organic. And I couldn't get there.
My mom swears that she spoke in tongues and did so for many years, as far as I can remember,
she would speak in tongues and, but she did so very privately. It wasn't something that was,
you know, out in your face.
So, you know, I lived my life as a Christian. My, my son's father,
when we were married, he was a youth pastor. And so you're exposed to that at two different
churches. And I was as involved as you can be and wanted to. I had that heart. I wanted to help.
I wanted to, to do my part as much as I could. And, you know, there were a couple years in my
early 20s and a couple years in my 30s, not years, but there was a period of time where
I just was a little overwhelmed by life. And I was like, I don't know where God is. And so I
turned and I didn't go out to go sinning or partying or anything like that. I just
didn't attend churches, but I still had God in my heart. And I still called myself a Christian.
And I still believed and it was my identity. It was my entire life. And so from the time
I would wake up in the morning to the time my head hit the pillow at night, I wanted to be
the most godly woman that I could be. And I strived to be more in the word and more in prayer
and more in every part of my life. It was surrounded by an influenced by my belief in God.
So people that come at me now that say, well, you know, we're never a true Christian. I'm like,
well, now you're lying and that's against the Ten Commandments. And you can't
divine my hearts and that's a no true Scotsman fallacy. So coming back at that's pretty easy,
but it still is like, how dare you? That's rude. That's inappropriate. You cannot divine my heart
or my mind. You've never walked in my shoes. You don't know me. How dare you? It's extremely
presumptuous. Yeah. It's so it is interesting, though, when you can quote, when you can kind of,
when you can take the moral high ground and kind of point out there being
unscriptural. I had a similar, like, you know, you're lying. That's a sin. Like I had a similar
experience where a street preacher stopped me, started preaching to me. I said, hey, I'm not,
I'm not, I'm not interested in having this conversation. You know, I've got some experience
and they wouldn't stop and I just kept going. So I said, I took my kid gloves off. I took the
gloves off and I said, oh, can I ask you some tough questions? And they said, sure. And I asked
them some tough questions and I got to the point where they just wouldn't answer the questions.
And I said, oh, not as such a foolish question. And I said, oh, I said, careful now, you're in
danger of the fire of hell if you call me a fool. And then they said, I called you a fool.
I called your arguments a fool. And I said, yeah, but you kind of, it's kind of similar.
Well, you're getting close. And then it ended with me walking away, giving their
flyers back and saying, hey, look, I'm not going to read these, you know, have them and me walking
away and them screaming at me, God, it's gonna harden your heart. And I'm like, well, you must
have already done it. And so, yeah, it was just amazing. Yeah.
You know, it's funny that you bring that up because I have it in my book. That specific
scripture that talks about, you know, you who call somebody else a fool is in dangers of the fires
of hell. A few chapters later, Jesus calls his brothers in fools, you fools, you vipers.
That's interesting. I guess Jesus was in danger of the fire of hell.
Geez. That's crazy. Yeah, I didn't, I must, I don't remember, I don't remember hearing that
in your book when I read it the first time. Wow, that's, I'll have to check that part out.
That is really interesting. So eventually though, you mentioned in your book that you
had this experience, was this in maybe in the Hebrew roots movement or something you're,
where essentially you listen to a, like a preach or something from a rabbi, was it? And it conflicted.
Okay, so you're talking about the video? Yeah, you went to work. Yeah, you kicked you off on your journey.
Yeah. So I made a point of staying in listening to teachings, you know, from, from Hebrew roots
teachers, I would, I made a point to listen to, you know, there's at least one a day.
And when I was at work, I was able to, you know, do my work and listen at the same time.
So I came across, I was at lunch and I saw somebody ostracizing this, this series of videos
by Scott Shueb, and I was like, Oh, I've never heard of him. That sounds interesting. And it's
from a fellow Hebrew roots person. And I was like, well, I'm just not going to listen to the gossip.
I'm going to go to the source, you know, what did he say? And so I turned on the first video and
all, all color drained from my face. And I stopped it. And I was like, I can't, I can't go to the
next video. I have to listen. I have to take this home to my husband. So I went home and I said,
Hey, I need you to, I need you to watch this video. But if you don't see what I see, our marriage
is on the line. And he was like, What? Are you sure you want me to watch this? I was like,
absolutely, I do. So he watched the first one, he says, I'm done.
I see what you saw. And we both knew the scriptures well enough to understand that
he was right. He was scripturally sound in his arguments. And he didn't need to watch,
he watched the second one, he didn't watch all seven. He's like, I'm done. I don't need to see
anymore. I watched the rest of them. And at that point, we were just like, Oh, I guess we're going
to go be Jewish then. And just, you know, maybe we should find a synagogue. And I reached out to
Toby a singer. And he emailed me back and said, Welcome home. And so we were looking at, you know,
do we become carite Jew? Do we adopt ourselves into, you know, what Ashkenazi tribe? That's
kind of where my roots go. And so we were just trying to figure out, well, and he's like, you
should probably find a depending on how strict you go, if you go Orthodox, or if you go reform,
whatever, find a synagogue close to your home. Okay. And we were really looking at and trying
to find the material in the synagogues. Meanwhile, I'm like, well, if I'm going to vet the New
Testament, I need to make sure that the Old Testament stands on its own. And as hard as that
was to bring myself to it, because I was so drawn to the Jewish plight and Israel and had such a
heart for that, that I didn't want to ruin that image that I had. But I lived by the motto that
my mom lived by, I'd rather be slapped with the truth than kissed with a lie. And so I went ahead
and started vetting the Old Testament and went, Oh, crap, it doesn't line up either.
So it was about. Was this a long process? Like when you were vetting the Old Testament, was it
like a long? It was about six months. Yeah, six months vetting the Old Testament. And then I had
to step away for a good six months and not even touch anything religious at all. But I'm like
seriously watching cat videos, because it was so overwhelming, trying to not spiral, trying to not
just completely lose it on any given day at any time. You know, I found myself crying on the floor
in my in my living room, just face down crying going, God, if you are there, if you are real,
I need you to reveal yourself to me in whatever way that looks like. I don't care if you're freaking
Krishna or Buddha, but freaking please reveal yourself because I don't know if I can live without
a God. So my husband, I told my husband, I said, I need to get away for a week and kind of recenter
and reground myself went to a mind the body retreat in Florida, and just kind of try to
release and process and, you know, regain my composure and equilibrium. And then just live,
you know, just figure out how to just one day at a time, one foot in front of another, until I could
just be me and start to reinvent myself. Who is Deborah? What is Deborah without the Bible?
You know, what does she like? What does she want out of life? And I'm telling you, the
the religious trauma syndrome that is associated with coming out of that is hard. It's so hard
because you've been so conditioned to not read anything about the old Egyptian mythologies
or Homer or Virgil or whoever else is out there. You don't know anything about these people
or how much of the Bible has hijacked from that. So you don't know the origins. I didn't know
that all four of the Gospels were written by ghost writers. I didn't know the history of how the
Bible was written, who wrote it, how long it took to be wrote, how many years it took to become canon,
how many times Revelation was in and out and in and out. I didn't know any of this until afterwards.
And that is such a disservice to anybody who was following the Bible as their faith, as their
foundation. So it took a couple of years before the concept of even writing the book came about.
And it came about by accident. Just writing a response to a text message and I'm like,
oh, I think I just started a book. Yeah. Yeah. It's like, it's just like someone's like,
I can imagine someone was like, so why don't you come to church? You're like,
well, and then she just kind of came out. Is that kind of similar to what happened?
Well, my sister was telling me about a video somebody had sent her. This guy who was trying to
parallel the mark of the beast with the vaccines. And I was like, gosh, really? And so I started
writing a response and she knew I was out of religion, but I wanted to put something together
cohesively to kind of explain. And three pages later, I'm like, I got a lot to say. And having
written for the validity of the Bible for so many years, I pulled out 10 years of writing
and pulled it all together and then just said, I'm going to write a book.
And my husband said, okay, well, go go big or go home.
Yeah. So I did. And you definitely have gone big. Because yeah, mate, I can't,
people, you need to get this book. Look, look how thin it is. You can read it in a few hours
or listen to it. The audible version is great as well. But it's so packed with juicy Bible
goss, I'd say. But it's funny you say about the traumatic experience about, you know,
kind of looking at the world without those kind of God glasses on. I remember for me,
I came to the realization that, that truth was the most important thing. And I realized that
if I was going to look at the evidence and already have a conclusion, that that wasn't
honest, like that was intellectually dishonest. And then I came to the realization that, well,
it doesn't matter if it's intellectually, no, it doesn't matter if I, if I remove online biases
because they'll come back to what I already believe because I already know God's definitely real.
I already know Christianity is definitely true. So I don't need to protect that belief. I can just
look at the evidence. And I remember even mentally in my mind, taking off like my God helmet,
like taking off like my Christian helmet, and just looking at the evidence and just going,
okay, this is what the evidence says and going, okay, that's interesting. And I saw things that
I normally wouldn't see. And then I remember like after the investigation, I put it back on.
And I remember thinking like, this is all mentally, I'm not a psychopath, but I'm just
thinking like, I'm just thinking like, wow, that was, I saw a crack there. That was interesting
that there's a crack there. And the next time I would go into this investigation, I would try
and assume nothing, like I'd assume that I existed and like an observation of the world,
but I tried to assume as little as possible. And the crack was bigger and bigger. And next thing
I know, I mean, this giant canyon going, holy crap, this is very deep. And when I would reach
out to my Christian friends and say, hey, I found these problems, they would come with
the ad hominem attacks or they would, you know, they wouldn't be interested in discussing them
or they would say they wouldn't care. And I was like, how can you not care about what's true?
And it was, it was for me, one of the hardest things was realizing that people didn't actually
care about what was true or not. Like that was like, I was like, was my faith really this dishonest?
Like, and that was for me a really hard thing to kind of realize that people in the church
didn't actually care. And no, yeah. And yeah, as a matter of fact, we had my husband and I
after questioning two separate pastors or teachers in the Hebrew roots movement,
two of the churches we were asked to leave.
You know, that's, you know, that's, that's, that's gonna happen. You know, when you start questioning
their motives or their honesty, or here's what the scripture says, isn't that? And they're like,
well, if you don't, if you're not really learning anything from us, then maybe you should find
somewhere else where you will learn. Yeah. And another one, another one, it was about the submission,
like my husband's like, I don't submit to you, I submit to God. And he was like, very offended.
Yeah. And you mentioned in your book that your husband was having a lunch with a pastor or a
preacher. And then they, and your husband was like, well, I love you as a brother, like said,
you know, and then he said, and the pastor said, show me. And yeah, that is crazy. That's crazy,
because you guys were having issues around the teachings of tithing and stuff at the time,
right? Yeah, it was that. And there was another issue. There was a couple in the church that
wanted to get married. And the, the pastor there, he, he said, he wanted to do it, but he was only
going to do it if they had counseling sessions with him beforehand. And they're like in their,
their fifties. And they're like, Oh, we know what we're doing. We want to do it. Why, why would
we have to do that? And so they asked my husband, you know, would you marry us? So my husband went
online, got the certificate. And so sure. And he married him. And the pastor was offended because
markets stepped on his toes. So the lunch was tried to try to smooth things over to say, hey,
you know, no harm, no foul, you know, these are adults over here. And, you know, I, you really
shouldn't be offended. They're adults. Sorry. But, you know, it is what it is. Let's get past this.
And the guy, he just wasn't having it. Oh, wow. So how long would you say that you see,
would you consider yourself an agnostic atheist now? Or what would you consider yourself in your
belief system? I really, I really try not to put a title. All for all intents and purposes.
My, my belief system falls within the atheist category. I try not to use that term because
it's so offensive to Christians. And the, it has such a negative connotation within their circles.
So for, you know, most of the time, I just call myself a skeptic. I don't know if there is a
God or not. It's, and I tend to lean on the fact that there isn't. I don't, I don't know what we're
living in. Who created it? Is this a realm? Is it a matrix? You know, is it millions of years?
I don't know. I really don't know. Where did it all come from? Who knows? But it doesn't matter
in my day-to-day life. What matters is me being a good person and trying to make this world a
better place. That's what matters. My relationships with other people, that's what matters.
Leaving a legacy, being an example to other people, that's what matters.
Does God exist? I don't know. I really don't know, but I'm comfortable in that not knowing.
And that's me being honest with you.
Yeah, I was just going to say that. That seems like, from my experience, is the only honest answer
you can actually give. We don't know. But just like how the ancient Greeks didn't know where
the thunder was coming from, making up stories about how Zeus making that thunder, it may
satisfy, maybe satisfying emotionally, but it's probably not true. So it's probably best to just
say, look, we don't know yet. Let's find out. It's an interesting thing. But let's keep the
barbecue going, get some drinks, have some friends over. Still enjoy your life.
And you asked earlier about, did I have any supernatural experiences? And I apologize
for not getting to that. I do have a couple from my childhood. I had a very, very bad reaction to
immunization shot when I was 12. And for three weeks, I was in a state like a very severe stroke
victim. I couldn't walk. I couldn't talk. Couldn't feed myself. Nothing. And it was three weeks later
that I woke up and started feeling better. And my mom associated that to God.
Okay, maybe, maybe it was just, you know, I had inflammation in my brain and it came down.
The swelling came down. Who knows? They didn't know whether I would ever recover. But I did.
And it's, to slide God in there is extremely naive. And it's presumptuous. And to do the
God of the gaps for everything we don't know is primitive in thought. Science doesn't operate
that way. You know, things that we don't know, you don't call it God. Why should we do that
even as a believer? You know, the God of the gaps fallacy is a fallacy.
Yeah, it's interesting too, because like, if you didn't recover from that super unfortunate
experience, then it wouldn't be God's fault. So it's like kind of an unfalsifiable claim,
right? So like, when it works, it's God, when it doesn't work, well, it's not God's timing or
something. You can't, you can't be proven wrong. It like, replace the God for magical jug of milk
and you get the exact same results, you know, it's either the jug of milk works or it doesn't.
So yeah. Well, I want to actually talk a little bit about your book. And I wanted to mention a few
things from the book and just get your thoughts on them, or maybe you could elaborate a little
further. So a few things that stood out to me was you talk about the sin sacrifice. And I've
got a bookmark and I'll just read out a little section of this. The most glaring, the most glaring
violation and worldview symbol of the Christian faith is the cross where Jesus is hung, not burned,
not even Abraham was going to hang or crucify Isaac. The Old Testament states he that is hanged is
cursed of God, but Jesus is hung. If Jesus, if Jesus were God, I'm a little dyslexic, sorry,
if Jesus were God, and if his death was an act of self sacrifice, then he would be cursing himself.
Yeah. And I found that quite interesting. Yeah, can you elaborate a little bit on the sin sacrifice?
Yeah. So every single aspect of the sin sacrifice was a violation. The Old Testament law
states that a sin sacrifice must be killed quickly. The blood drained out at the base of the altar.
The altar is supposed to be anointed. The sin sacrifice is not to be anointed.
It's supposed to be burnt. The leftovers are supposed to be eaten by the priests.
The sacrifice is supposed to be handled by consecrated, cleansed, and anointed
Levitical priests. And none of it lines up. So a violation of a sin sacrifice law is a sin.
So how can a sin be an atonement for sin? Exactly.
That, to me, was one of the biggest issues with the entire New Testament. And I just went...
Yeah. The goggles were off. It was done. Nothing else mattered to me. Because when you have the
sacrifice of Jesus as an atonement for the world fall apart, none of the rest of it makes any sense.
You know, he had four prophecies about himself that didn't come true. Another sin or violation,
or now you're a false prophet. So how do you hang your hat on the Bible as your source of faith
when the very main crux, the crest of your story, your main point falls apart?
It doesn't line up. And now the rest of it is non sequitur.
Yeah, it's interesting too. Because I think there was even a sect in early Christianity,
you know, very early sect, like within the first couple of hundred years,
called the Mass Unites. And they rejected the Old Testament. And they rejected the Old Testament.
God is an evil deity that created the world, and Jesus came to save us from this evil deity.
So I guess if you just take out the whole, all the prophecies about God, and you throw out the
whole Old Testament, and you just refer to Jesus as like someone who was like God who crucified
himself or something, I guess it could work. But I mean, you're kind of throwing out everything and
basing it on nothing, I guess. But yeah, it's...
Well, but at the same time, if you look at, you know, some of the words that Jesus said,
you know, he came to save, believe on him and be saved. But those who don't believe,
you know, you're dividing the wheat from the tares, and you're dividing the thorns from the
good seeds and whatever else other analogies he uses. If you're coming to save people from
a hell that you created, that's extortion. So even if you only use the New Testament,
and you know, he's coming back, supposedly, per the Book of Revelation, he's coming back,
drenched in blood with a sword. How is that benevolent?
Hmm. You're coming to scorched earth, you know, coming back to scorched earth,
and you're doing it to save?
It puts God, like the Bible sometimes makes God have to be like a mafia boss,
like that's a mighty fine soul you've got there. Like, it'd be shame if anything happened to it.
Like, and I've got this video on my channel where I talk about how like, I don't make fun of God on
this channel. Like, I make fun of the idea that the ideas people have about God, because you're
telling me the creator of the universe sent his favorite tribe of people into another tribe of
people to go slaughter everyone, but to take the virgin woman for yourself. Why would the creator
of the universe suggest this? I don't understand. Like, it's perplexing to me.
But David, you have to understand in the New Testament, the New Testament,
or let's just go back to the Old Testament. The Old Testament says,
you shall not take a betrothed woman. And then in the New Testament, God did just that.
And a bastard shall not enter the kingdom of heaven. So technically, Jesus is a bastard.
How is he supposed to get into heaven? Yeah.
God took a betrothed woman and impregnated her. Yeah.
I thought you're not supposed to commit adultery. Hello.
Yeah. It's very spicy. I can see how a lot of people, and I imagine a lot of this is in the
second part of your book, because, you know, it's such a, it's so blasphemous to even think
like that for a Christian. You know, so I'm a traitor. I'm considered a traitor by Christian
standards. Yeah. But I've been called worse. Yeah. Well, I think, neither of us were never
really true Christians, because of what it says in 1 John. They were never really with us, if they're
now not with us or something. I don't know. I haven't read it for a while. You're right.
Oh, if you're not for God, you're against God. Yeah. But we have delicious from Milico.
Right. Right. Frangelico. Frangelico. Sorry. It's obviously taken effect. And I was a little
nervous before this, so I had a little bit of whiskey as well. I didn't want to mention
Isaiah 53, because when I mentioned on Reddit that I was interviewing someone who converted from
Christianity to Judaism and then to atheism, that's how I worded it anyway. They said,
have I read Isaiah 53? And I even had a family member who went to a ministry college years ago,
a Bible college or ministry college, I can't remember. And I said, actually,
and I said, oh, what are you, what are you learning? And they said, oh, I'm learning about,
you know, why the Jews don't accept some Jesus. And I was like, oh, that's interesting. And I
said, why is that? I've been just no, they said, oh, because they don't have Isaiah 53. And I was
like, oh, wow, I was like, that's super interesting. That's not true. Yeah. And then so I went, I went
away and looked, looked it up late. And I was like, no, they do it's right there. Like, what? And I
was like, hang on. And I was like, how are you being taught this in like an accredited universe?
Like an accredited course, right? It's just blatantly wrong. Anyway, go on, tell us.
Yeah, that is a lie that has been perpetuated by the missionaries. And people just believe it
because that's what they're taught. That's what they're told. But no, the Hebrew Bible does have
Isaiah 53, they know it, they read it. But you have a lot of problems with Isaiah 53. The first
and foremost is most of it, not all of it. Most of it is past tense, which last time I checked,
a prophecy is not past tense. But we, there's a lot of problems with it. You have
he made his grave, it's verse nine, he made his grave. Oh, let's go back to verse eight,
verse eight says he was taken. But the Hebrew uses the word lamo, which is them, or they,
they were taken. So it's a plural used on that verse in the Hebrew.
Just to give some context for maybe people who aren't super familiar. Isaiah 53 is an Old Testament
scripture that Christians use to say that Jesus, it's prophesying about the becoming Messiah Jesus.
And yet the Judaism, they still read the scripture and they don't believe Jesus
is fulfilling that scripture. So that's what we're talking about. Yeah.
Right. Verse nine is backwards, because it says that Jesus was made his grave with the wicked.
But he was actually buried in a rich man's tomb, not a criminal's tomb. He was, and then it says
that his death was with the rich. Well, unless these thieves were rich,
they were criminals, not rich. So it's completely backwards.
It says that he shall see his seed. The Hebrew word there is Zara, which always means physical
children. Jesus didn't have any children. It says that he would have prolonged days.
I don't think 30 or 33, whatever you subscribe to, is very long life. I'm already 46. I outlived him.
And then a lot of people talk about,
it doesn't mention Jesus, does it? No, and it doesn't even mention the promised Messiah
in these passages. Okay. So, I mean, that's a big problem there too. But if there's,
a lot of people say, well, it talks about the rod and the stripes, the rod and the stripes. Jesus
was beaten and he was, what's the word? Flocked. Flocked. Yes, thank you. And there are three
verses outside of Isaiah 53 that talk about, well, the suffering servant from chapter 1 to chapter 52
and chapter 54 to the end always means Israel, all of Israel. The suffering servant is
a collective noun to mean all of Israel. It's only that one chapter that Christians take the
liberty of changing the meaning of the suffering servant to mean the Messiah. But if you look at
these other three chapters or these other three verses in the Bible, it explains again, it's
confirmation that it is all of Israel who will receive the rod and the stripes. Second Samuel
714, if Israel is to sin, I will discipline them with rod and stripes. Psalm 89 verses 30 through
32, I will visit my children's sin with a rod and stripes, children's. And then in Job 934,
let him take his rod away from me. Job is considered to be part of that collective Israel,
even way back then. So if you have this specific, all these problems and you can,
you have to take it cumulatively. If you look at it, I mean, even if you take one of those,
just one of those verses, you know that the entire verse or the whole chapter or the whole book,
it's not referring to Jesus. None of it is pointing to Jesus in that respect.
There are some prophecy verses in Isaiah, but I think they're found in like verse,
or chapter 11. And it's not the same context. You have to look at that in context.
Yeah, it's also interesting too, because I've heard someone, I think they called up the Atheist
experience or maybe there's another talk show, but they said that Jesus is all like true because
he fulfills the prophecies of the Old Testament. And I think it was Tracy, who I miss dearly
from being on that show. She said, did the writers of the New Testament have access to the Old
Testament? And the person was like, because it's just like, well, if you were trying to convince
someone that Jesus was the Messiah, let's say he was, you know, I mean, there were many apocalyptic
preachers roaming around. I mean, John the Baptist was an apocalyptic preacher running
around Judeo at that time. Let's say if you're wanting to convince that he is the Messiah and
you get these beliefs, well, you could easily read in, you could easily kind of explain the story
to fit the Old Testament scriptures, especially when it's written, the New Testament is written
30 to 60 years after the events that they try to record. Oh yeah, that's ad hoc rationalization
right there. Yeah, the whole New Testament is that's all it is. I actually mentioned John the
Baptist in my book, because one of the prophecies of the Messiah is that Elijah would come before
the Messiah. And so obviously, they try to, you know, squeeze John the Baptist as that and Jesus
says, yeah, if you can accept it, here's John the Baptist, he is Elijah. Well, then later,
John the Baptist is questioned, and he confesses and denies it not, that's verbatim, and says he's
not Elijah. So who's lying here? Is it Jesus or is it John the Baptist? And either way, you don't
usher in the kingdom of heaven with lies. Yeah, I was preaching in a youth camp once when I was
training to be the youth pastor, I was a youth leader at the time, and I actually was preaching,
I have my Bible and I was like, do you guys know, I was trying to get them all excited for God?
It's like, do you guys know that John the Baptist was Elijah? Or I can't remember exactly what it was.
And as I said that, the youth pastor's wife went, oh, and I went, I looked at her and she goes,
no, that's wrong. And I went, oh, okay, forget that. And I just kept going on. And afterwards,
I was like, what do you mean? It says it right here. And she's like, no, I think you're missing
the context. And I was like, well, and then the other leaders were like, I don't think she's read
it. Like this doesn't make, because it says it. And anyway, it was just interesting that I was,
yeah, it's just, yeah, it's just got. There are pastors across the nation across the world right
now that still to this day are preaching that, yes, John the Baptist was Elijah. Yeah.
Yeah. You also mentioned in your book that some references that are referenced,
that some references in the New Testament that reference the Old Testament don't exist in the
Old Testament. Can you explain a little bit about that? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Most, the biggest and
most glaring of the examples is often used by Christian apologists. I think it's a second
Corinthians 15, three, three, four, or first, I can't remember. And it talks about how, according
to the scriptures, Christ was died, buried and resurrected on the third day. According to what
scriptures? According to what scriptures? Because that is not mentioned anywhere in the Old Testament.
That's pulled out of thin air. That's completely fabricated. Yeah. On that alone,
the entire Bible should be deemed defunct. Well, it's at least defunct in that it's not
the perfectly put together word of God. Because like, couldn't you still say? Right. Not infallible.
Yeah. Not infallible. Because you could say that, well, maybe there were scriptures,
but they were just lost to time, right? Well, something or like they've just been lost, but
it just... I mean, you could, but I mean, or what religious script is that pulling from? Is that
pulling from like the books of Greek mythology? I mean, what scriptures? Because a lot of text
around the world from different civilizations are deemed sacred, but it's certainly not coming from
the Hebrew Bible. Yeah. And the Hebrew Bible was very carefully preserved, so. Yeah. Yeah, exactly.
I do have some more stuff that I want to talk to you about in your book, but I think
at this stage, we might just move on to the Q&A and maybe if people have questions, we can do
another one of these one time or something if you're up for it, maybe. Yeah. But we'll go on to the
Q&A and just to keep this relatively short, like not hours and hours, and I've got nine questions
for you if that's okay. Yeah, sure. So I was going to pop them up on screen, but you, but obviously
we have to have some technical difficulties when we're using Discord, so I'll just have to read them
out. How did your views of Jesus change when you converted to Judaism or a Judaism of sorts?
Well, at that point, I just saw him as another myth. I saw Jesus as, yeah, there might have been some
nice things that were written, but I had taken those myopic lenses off and seeing him through
that broad spectrum of critical thinking and being honest with myself. I now saw this Jesus
character as a reinvented myth. There are plenty of other saviors in other fates and religions
and myths and legends, and it just didn't make sense to put faith in something that was so
badly represented as this demigod. It just didn't make sense, and nothing in the Hebrew
Bible pointed to the New Testament Messiah anymore, and so at that point, I was just
waiting for the Messiah like the Jews were. Okay, so your foundation was essentially you
really understood the Hebrew Scriptures, and because the Hebrew Scriptures didn't point to
Jesus, all of a sudden that stack of cards has started to fall, and then Jesus was just another
person. That bridge was burnt. I had dropped the match and lit it and ran.
Someone asked, a lot of people were absolutely perplexed. I think when I asked on the Christianity
subreddit, they were so confused that someone could even convert from Christianity to Judaism,
but they asked, so this question might just be kind of silly, but are you familiar with
C.S. Lewis' Lord, Liar, Lunatic question? No. Well, I think it's just Jesus is either a Lord,
a liar, or a lunatic. I think that's the end. To be honest, I can't retell it exactly how I
wouldn't be giving it justice if I tried to explain it because I only just know it as well,
so that's your answer. No, next question. Someone asked, what is your perspective
on the book of Hebrews? I think it's probably one of the most offensive books of the New Testament.
Okay. I would have to say that the book of Hebrews is probably the most offensive. It takes so much
out. It's one of the most unmatched books of the New Testament. I don't think it matches
anything else. The whole tone of it, and trying to say that the New Covenant replaces the Old
Covenant, it was very badly and poorly explained because if you look at the first chapter in Hebrews,
it talks about the waxing old of heaven and earth, and then you move to, I think it's Hebrews 8 or
11, I can't remember, that talks about that because the Old Testament was erroneous, they had to bring
in this new one, and you had to replace the priesthood, and it completely takes out of context
the fact that the prophecies were talking about that the New Covenant wouldn't be in place until
heaven and earth passed away, and then Jesus actually confirmed that, saying until heaven and
earth passed away, every bit of this law is still in effect, and then Hebrews comes along and says,
oh no, that's not what it says, it's not what it means. It's so badly taken out of context, and
whoever wrote it did not understand the Hebrew Bible at all or the words of Jesus,
and they didn't understand how all of that came together. So, yeah.
Is it traditionally authored by Paul? Do people think so? There's the traditional
like what the church thinks, which is usually a little bit misguided. Is it traditionally
thought of as Paul wrote it, but then what does history actually tell us? Is it not written by
Paul or...? So, some Bible scholars believe that the book of Hebrews was written by Paul,
and some of them don't, and so there isn't a real solid consensus on the matter. I would actually
lean toward the book of Hebrews not being written by Paul, but I just don't know. I mean, I wasn't
there, I don't know who wrote it, so. And obviously, the scholars would agree, they don't know.
They haven't come to a consensus either, so. Cool. This one's a bit of a, this is a big question,
and it's more of a question that is probably outside of the scope of Christianity, and it's
probably outside of the scope of religion even, is how I'd like you to kind of address it,
and that is essentially, the question is essentially, and take your time if you need to think about
this, but what evidence would convince you of the existence of a Creator?
Seeing or hearing the actual Creator? That's really what it would take. I can't take man's word
for anything, and having man speak for God or make the claim for God isn't evidence. God would have
present that evidence himself or herself, so that's what it would take.
And I'm sure that if you did end up meeting the Creator of the universe in some, like he comes
down and speaks, they speak to you one day, him, her, it, whatever, that you would immediately
believe in the existence of the Creator, whether or not you'd worship it, it would be a different
story, but you're not stubborn is what I'm trying to get across. You're after truth.
So it would take, first you'd have to define God. I mean, I'm sure cockroaches may look at us and
think, oh, these are divine beings, they can squash me at any time, and they don't understand if I
try to explain algebra to a cockroach. What is that? So how am I defining?
I'd be the same. If you try to explain algebra to me, I'd be like, what are you talking about?
But I'm saying is like, how do I know that this divine being actually created the universe?
I would maybe have to see another universe created to know that this was the one that
created the one I'm living in. How would I know that this deity or being did create the universe?
I could have a very incredible supernatural experience similar to that on being on DMT,
but I don't know that this is a work of my own mind playing tricks on me or is there would
have to be some very solid evidence for me to know that, yes, this is not magic. This is not
a trick. This is not my mind. This is actually a divine being. And what does that mean?
You could write books and books on that one question, because there's so much that goes into
it. This one's a bit of a fun one. And I wrote this one. If there was one true religion,
which religion would you hope that to be? I have not come across a specific religion
where I'm like, oh, I hope that's true. So I can't really say that, oh, I wish this one was true yet.
I'll ask you this or that. Would you rather reincarnation be real or an afterlife be real?
Both of those are good. These are kind of getting into the realm of stoner questions.
So I apologize for that part of it. It's okay. The only way in which I would
want reincarnation to be real is if I got to keep these memories.
Yeah. Cool. Other than that, I'd probably pick afterlife.
Yeah. Because I don't believe that there is a hell. And even if there were,
it's pretty sadistic to say, oh, I'm going to give you a whole new body so you can actually
feel the torment of hell. Yeah, it doesn't stand. You would kind of need nerve endings in a body
for you to be tormented. So if it's just a soul, quote unquote, going to hell, where's the torment?
Yeah, exactly. And it's also like the torment that you feel in a physical body is those cells
like dying and degrading. Are you renewed constantly in hell? Like renewed in the diet?
You're apparently immortal. Apparently you're just immortal burning.
I'm going to give you everlasting life if you believe in me.
Okay. Which you're going to give everlasting life to the person in hell too. So, okay.
Yeah, exactly. What did you find is the most common misconceptions Christians have about
the Old Testament when you left Christianity to Judaism?
Well, probably the misconception, the strongest one, I believe, is probably
that the Israelites in the wilderness were only the tribes of Israel. Very few Christians
understand that there was a mixed multitude in the wilderness and people who were Egyptian or
from other surrounding areas adopted themselves into Israel. And so when the Old Testament also
says those who were not of the tribes were supposed to be treated by the Israelites
as native born. Don't treat them any different. And yet, when you look at Christianity and the
New Testament, the idea is that the Gentiles who become believers are still Gentiles.
And that concept is somehow lost from the Old Testament in the New Testament writings.
And I had never met a pastor from any denomination who ever touched on this.
They talked about, oh, you're grafted in, but they don't mention the fact that you're
grafting into the tribes of Israel. And all of these laws in the Old Testament, the eternal
covenant, what has specific laws and feasts that say, for all generations in all your dwellings,
perpetually, forever, follow this. And the New Testament misses that in their belief and in
their traditions and understanding of the Bible as in full context. They miss that completely.
You are now part of Israel. You're no longer a Gentile. A Gentile just means non-believer.
You're no longer a Goy of other nations. You are part and parcel of the tribes. And
per the Old Testament law, you're not supposed to be treated any different than a Jew. So
that's totally missed. That was one of the strongest misconceptions. It puts a whole
new light on the Bible, which I still think it has value in academia, but that's about it.
Yeah. Okay. So three last questions. Now, the first two I'm going to ask you are partners.
So the first question is, what is the most compelling argument for the existence of God?
And then my next question will be, what's the most compelling argument against the existence
of God? In your mind, if you were to give the best, obviously, you're not convinced of it,
but if you were to give the best argument that you think points towards God, that obviously
doesn't make it all the way for you. But what would you say that is? Probably it's an appeal to
nature. It's the symbiotic nature of our existence here on the planet, the cycles,
the symbiotic nature of just the life on the plains of Africa, how it all needs each other,
how it all feeds off of each other, and the cycle of life that happens between
the redwood forests to the kelp in the ocean, to our winters, and the balance that exists in nature.
That, to me, is probably the strongest argument. The weakest argument is, I feel it.
The anecdotal, I feel it, you just need to accept and feel it and believe. That's the
weakest one for me. What is the most compelling argument against the existence of God? Not just
the weakest to propose God, but let's say, how could we be God if X or something? I think of
the problem of evil. I think of things like the age of the earth being older than 6,000 years,
like the scientific consensus of the Big Bang Theory or something. What would you say is
the strongest argument against the existence of God? Or could it be Bible stuff?
The strongest argument against the existence of God is
probably the moral, the biblical God, because that's all I could speak to is the biblical God.
It's probably the moral argument.
Which is so funny, because people say the opposite. People will say that that's the reason.
Interesting.
Yeah. No, I read through Genesis and completely stripped it and just took off all the fluff
and just wrote what God said or did. He said this, he did this, he said this, he did this,
took apart everything else, and you're left with a horrible deity, absolutely malevolent.
Yeah, I have to read this section. I marked it, and I marked the ones in yellow for ones I might
want to bring up, but I have to read this in what you just said. Returning briefly to the topic of
Satan, it should disturb anyone who believes in the Bible to find out how many recorded verified
deaths can be attributed to God and how many can be attributed to Satan. Satan, 10. God, 2 million,
821,364. Yeah, and what I find was also interesting is I asked this to a Christian online, is if we
have references in the Bible of God lying or God sending a deceptive spirit, and we know that
it also says that Satan lies, how do we know who's telling the truth or when God is telling the
truth? Then the Ad-Homonym attack started. Why are such a foolish question?
It should be noted, though, that those 10 were approved by God, so they could actually go into
God's realm. Yeah, I know. But David, Satan comes to kill still and destroy.
Yeah, exactly. Exactly. What exactly did Satan kill or steal or destroy? What? I know.
Because you know what? God actually created Satan. He created the serpent who was cunning.
He created the tree and planted it right in the middle. He did it all. So to gas light and
say it's our fault, we're wretched, is abuse. Yeah. I think that I really want to look...
Have you ever read the book Lost Christianities by Bart Ehrman?
No, no, I haven't read that one yet. I have a long list of books I want to read.
Yeah, I bet. Lost Christianities, he has a talk on it as well on YouTube,
like a bunch of talks, and it's so interesting because he mentions that there's the Marcianites,
which I mentioned before, and then there's the Ebonites and Gnostics and stuff,
and how proto-Orthodox Christianity kind of took off. But what's so interesting about it is
the Marcian of Sinope, I think he's called, he rejected all the Old Testament, and he had this
book called, that I think this is all back somewhere in my brain that I don't really remember,
but he had this book called The Antitheses, and we only know about it because we know about people
who were referencing it in order to rebut it. So we don't actually have the original. It'd be so
interesting to find the original, but essentially he said, he was saying, how can you say that
the God of the New Testament is the same as the God of the Old Testament? Because are you saying
the person that said, let the little children come to me, also said, go and kill the Midianites,
or I forgot which group it was, or go kill the little children, or are you saying that the
same God that says, turn the other cheek, also said, I'm jealous and I'm going to flood the
entire world? How can you say these are the two same gods? And I was like, wow, this Marcian of
Sinope, he was kind of a badass for 200 CE or whenever he was kicking around. I really wish
I could read his original texts, like if we could find them some one day, or maybe Satan
has a book that we don't know about that we could dig up and reimagine that.
Right, right. Well, the God of the New Testament is just as bad. I mean, you have
verses in Luke that say, we are good for nothing slaves, and we're supposed to be happy about it.
And then you have Jesus, who's calling the Gentile woman and her daughter dogs.
You have the book of Revelation where he's just pouring out bowls of wrath left and right,
scorched earth. It's just a nightmare, a mess coming back drenched in blood with a sword.
And of course, it's the same one. Of course.
Yeah. I don't know what to say at all, except for, yep, it's a very big topic. So the last
question and end this interview, and I think you can take a bit of time for this one if you want,
but what advice would you give to someone who is questioning their faith? Or maybe it's in the
same sort you were when you were first having those doubts?
It takes courage to question your faith, and it's not an easy road initially, but it does get better.
There is a huge community of former believers who will absolutely embrace you with open arms.
And I've spoken to people. I've answered phone calls. I've reached out
to a couple people and said, Hey, if you need to talk, I am here. Let's have a conversation.
I've done that numerous times. But if you are willing to be honest with yourself and actually
question your faith, you're a badass. And take comfort in that. It is not an easy road. It's
not an easy journey, but it is a badass road to be on. And on the other side, life goes on.
We make it. Some people will shun you. Some people will call you names. It's not the end
of the world. Promise. It's my advice. Yeah. If I was to say something similar,
for me, leaving faith was one of the hardest, emotionally wrenching, but also exciting experiences
I've ever had in my life. It was just so. Oh, I have so much more peace now. Yeah. I have so much
more peace now. The world makes sense. I was riddled with fear. I was riddled with fear in my faith,
in my religion. And that's horrible to be in a place of fear. Am I going to make it? Because,
you know, according to this scripture, he chooses you. Well, what if he doesn't choose me? And
according to this one, you know, it's your faith that if you have faith of a mustard seed, that's
it. You're in. And this one, if you're only going to be in there if you're baptized. And it's like,
did I do it right? There's so much fear in religion, and there's so much peace on this side.
Yeah. I remember I used to feeling really concerned seeing my friends get drunk or whatever,
or sin or something, because I was quite strict in our faith. And I would be worried, you know,
they're going to hell or whatever. And I remember, you know, when they would drink,
they would drink obsessively or they'd go crazy because that's what they expected to do. But
as I got older and as I kind of sat with our faith and stuff, my wife and I, they're guilt
about drinking and stuff kind of went away. And we realized, you know what, like, it's actually
fine to have some drinks and enjoy the night and stuff. And if you don't want to be sick,
then you don't have to drink too much. And you can have a couple of drinks and you can,
you know, spend some time with your friends and your loved ones, you can have deep conversations.
And you can, you know, go to bed, wake up with a hangover, order a pizza. It's totally acceptable
and fine. If you don't want to be hungover, don't drink too much. If you, you know, like this,
just things don't make sense. Like, if I was nervous about, you know, going for a drive into
the city because it had anxiety or something, I used to pray about it. And that made me feel
better. It's like, but I realized, like, well, hang on, I don't need to swerve into traffic.
If I, if I, if I don't feel safe, I can just continue on the same road that I'm on. And like,
just building rational ways to like deal with the world. It was a hard process to kind of
shake the faith and the, and the appealing to belief and stuff. But once I did, and once my
wife did, the world became so much easier to deal with. And also exciting, like we live with
someone who works at Australia Zoo with Steve Erwin, like before he died, like his zoo.
And she, she works with like Robert Erwin, his son and stuff and stuff. And we went in there with
with her. And it was, it was awesome. Cause like we went up to the fossil cabinet and I bought
fossils and they're like, you know, I think it's like, you know, 60 million years old. And it's
like, I just bought it for like 20 bucks. And I was like, I don't have to rationalize why these
numbers are fake and why, why the, you know, the, the Erwin's aligned to me about stuff. I was just
like, this is really cool. The universe just kind of makes sense. So although it's like
heart wrenching and you can have issues with your family and, you know, some of our family
don't even know where we're at still. It's super rewarding is what I'd say. And exciting.
If I may, you know, when I started to, to expand my repertoire of, of literature,
I came across the scripture in the Apocrypha in the book of Ecclesi, yeah, in the book of
Ecclesiasticus. I ended up buying the 1611 King James Bible, which has it.
I got it right. I got it right there. The, the 20 year additional. Yeah. Amazing, right?
Amazing, right? Yeah. It's, it's beautiful. It was my favorite book to read from.
Or my favorite Bible to read from, but there's this, there's a verse in Ecclesiasticus that says
that wine was made to make men marry. And, and then Jesus first, first miracle was turning water
into wine. So yeah, having a drink is not a problem, even scripturally. Yeah. It's a,
I don't know where those doctrines came from. You can't drink.
Well, thank you so much. Thank you so much for coming on the podcast, Deborah.
Everyone make sure you check out the book. I would recommend if you're, if you're kind of
interested, I'd recommend just at least getting the audible version because it's only like four
and a half hours long. The narrator is awesome. And then, and then get the physical version if
you love it. I got the audible version and I was kind of like, uh, yeah, this will be interesting,
like whatever. And then when I was about halfway through, I think I messaged you and I was like,
I messaged you just randomly on, on your Facebook page. I was like, this is amazing.
And I was like, this is so good. Um, and then like only hours after that, I was like,
can you please come on my show? And then, and then you're like, yeah, sure. And the next thing I know,
I'm ordering the physical version. And like, I didn't even put all the stickers in. I just put
in the ones that were super relevant for when I bookmarked an audible. So I recommend anyone
getting the book, checking it out. Um, it's really interesting. And thank you so much,
Deborah, for coming on, uh, to the Deep Drinks podcast. Thank you for introducing me to
Fran Jellico. And is it, am I saying it right, G? Fran Jellico? Yeah, Fran Jellico. Cool. And, um,
hopefully we can do this again sometime. So. Oh, I love it. Cool. Thank you. Thank you.
