Is the King James Bible the perfect, unaltered Word of God? Or do we have better translations
based on older manuscripts? Not to conformant, learn the truth the hard way, and here is his story.
The full video is on his channel, linked in the description.
I remember towards the end, I got into this
computational mode with my church about the King James, and I kept saying, okay, let's go to this.
There's this passage in 1 John, the epistle of John, 1 John 5-7, and it's talking about the
Trinity, and it's this really long passage about how the Son and the Father and the Holy Spirit
are one. And, you know, I'm looking, so I actually own a Texas Receptus Bible, it's right here.
And this is that, this has all the Hebrew and the Old Testament and the Greek Old Testament.
I was, I was recently in the Christian, in the local Christian bookstore, picking up a book,
this book, which is for the debate on slavery, is guided in the Bible. I wanted to read the
Apologetics by Paul Coethan, and I saw that, and I was like, that looks, that looks very useful.
I didn't have $80 to spend on it, though. Yeah, it's a lot. Yeah, I think I spent that much,
yeah. But I got this while I was still a Christian, and I remember going to that verse and being like,
whoa, whoa, whoa, they have an asterisk here. And I'm like, what's the asterisk? So I go to the back,
and I check out what it says, and it says that this is a, you know, turns out this is a added
verse from the 16, from the 1500s, in the 16th century, that this is not part of the original
Greek manuscripts. It comes from a Latin manuscript. And there was a Greek manuscript made
in the 15th and the 16th century, just so they can have it, because this was so important
for the King James Bible. From the 15th century. Yeah. 15th. Like 15. 16th. 16th. Yeah. That,
I never thought, when I thought things were added, I thought it was like, yeah, no, this is one of
those. 50 years later, like not to be fair, there were Latin manuscripts from the fourth and fifth
century that did have this verse. So Jerome's, Jerome's Vulgate has this in there. But still,
we're still talking hundreds of years, and it's not in the Greek, the Greek, everyone agrees,
even fundamentalists agree, the original is not in the Greek. Yes, it's not in the Greek. And I
remember being like, we're here, and we're us, us King James only, as we're really strict about
our Bibles being perfect and pure, and from the original source. And I'm like, this doesn't make
this, I go, I can, I'm showing you guys, I'm talking to my pastor about this, and one of my
friends, we had a meeting after church, and we're discussing this. And he says, this is my pastor,
my pastor should have lies to me, he says, no, no, no, there's, there's a manuscript, they just,
they just don't want you to know the scholars, the scholars hate us, the scholars hate us,
this is what he said to me. And I'm like, then he says, just go pray on it, just go pray on it. So
I tried praying on it, still Christian, remember that? And I remember just being like, no, it's,
I can still look and check this. So boom, that was the big brick that fell out of my wall of
Christianity. All of a sudden, things start tumbling off that. And I left that church and
a castle at the end, my last year. Isn't it amazing when that happens? For me, for me, I always,
I say that the process of deconstructing for me was like, was like being brave enough to
remove my presuppositions, remove my God glasses, my God hat, examine the evidence,
I'm still a Christian, but I'm going to pretend I'm not for this, for this investigation, because
I've got to be as unbiased as possible. And then afterwards, I put that God glass back on, I put
my identity back on, right? And I remember looking and going, huh, there's a small little crack there.
And I put it back on and my God, God perspective back on, I go, okay, I saw a crack, that's cool,
I will investigate it another time. Next time I investigate, I'm like, wow, these cracks,
cracks actually a little deeper than I thought. Before long, I'm in this giant canyon, like the
cracks are cute. I'm in it going like, what the fuck? And I can't not be in it. I can't pretend
this canyon doesn't exist. And I start reaching out to my Christian friends like, guys, I've got
these problems. And they don't care. It's the first thing at all. And then they, and their answers
are so dishonest. And I was just like, like, like what your pastor said, like,
yeah, he just straight up lied to me and just said that there was it, there was a Greek manuscript
in that we just don't know about it anymore. And the reason for saying that is because, is that
the King James can't be wrong. Therefore, there must have been a manuscript. Like,
it's such a circular argument. The King James Bible is perfect and pure because it comes from
the manuscripts. Okay. But if there isn't a manuscript, there must have been one because
the King James Bible is pure and perfect. We're in a loop and you can't get out of it.
Thanks for watching. If you like content like this, make sure you subscribe and check out the
Patreon links in the description. Every donation helps us create better videos and get better
guests. And make sure to check out the full video on Gnostic Informants channel.
