Is the New Testament reliable? What is the evidence for that reliability? Do
apologists overemphasize what's there? Do they fail to mention some
inconvenient truths? Deep Drinks podcast, the deepest podcast on the internet.
Today my guest is Ricky Brock Jr., also known as Captain Dadpool. Brock
started his journey as a devoted Christian. They pursued and
earned a degree in biblical studies. However, in an unexpected turn of events,
they found themselves evolving into an atheist. Their deep understanding of the
biblical history didn't diminish. Instead, it offered them a new perspective.
Today, they serve as a state representative for American atheists
in Pennsylvania, utilizing their in-depth knowledge to foster meaningful
conversations. Today, Captain Dadpool will be telling a little bit about his
deconstruction process and presenting some ideas in a presentation that your
pastor or apologists leaves out of their sermon. This is going to be a fun one.
Hey, welcome to Deep Drinks podcast, Captain Dadpool. Thanks for coming on.
Yeah, man. Thanks for having me. Excited. We've had this in the calendar for a
little while. I actually have to reschedule at one stage and it's been like a
couple of months and we're finally here and I'm excited to be here with you.
It's actually rather strange because a lot of the time, I do a bunch of research on my
guests and I've done a little bit of research on you, but I deliberately,
because I kind of knew your personality and who you are and I kind of was like,
you know what, I'm going to just pump the brakes a little bit and I want to go
into this fresh. I'm actually going to be first. First, I'm hearing your
deconstruction story as we're like as we're talking today. So we should be a
nice change for me. So welcome and what are we drinking? So we are drinking my
absolute favorite drink of all time. It's called Black Seal by Gosling's. It's a
dark spiced rum. It's similar to Kraken. Kraken's a little bit more popular, I
think, but I think Black Seal's a little smokier, a little sweeter. It's the same
price point. Then I drink it straight and I love it.
All right. Well, so I have, I had a little sip of this through some Coke. I'm not
usually a rum fan, but I've never had it on the rocks. So no, this might be a new
experience for me. So here we go. This is going to be great. So I've recently
started a new job where I video edit from home. So if my boss is watching, the
edits will come in fire after this after the inspiration starts to hit. Cool, cool.
It's probably a creative process. Exactly. Exactly. Thanks everyone for coming out.
I see some people already having a conversation in the chat. Supreme
scientists said written 50 to 80 years later, contradictory accounts,
anonymous sources based on decades of oral tradition. I'd say no. We're going to get
into that. We are going to get into that. So you've actually got a presentation that
you've kind of organized, but before we do that presentation, I wanted to just learn
a little bit about your story. So first of all, did you grow up a Christian or did
you have a conversion experience? So yeah, conversion experience. Like growing up,
I would like visit my grandma every other weekend and she would take me to church.
She was very religious and I had an aunt and cousins that go to church with two.
So I was exposed. I wasn't like super into it, but I was exposed to, you know,
all the basic stories and everything. And then they stopped going to church.
And I did too. I just didn't think anything more of it. This is probably, I think it was
10-ish, 11, something like that. And then when I was 15, I was invited to a youth group
that I went to. And the church I went to was very boring. It was Baptist.
They had the whole one thing. I saw the heavens gate or hell gate play, whatever that thing was.
But it's still very, very dry, very boring. This youth group was very different. It was very loud.
There was fog lights and smoke machines. To say the right, smoke. Yeah, fog lights. You get those
big stuff sometimes. Yeah, you know, strobe lights, fog machines. There was a snack bar,
foosball, air hockey, and a live band, and a bunch of other crazy teenagers like myself
running around. And they were very, very excited to have me there and made me feel very welcome.
And so it was hooked. I kept going and dedicated my life to Christ and all that.
So when you say you dedicated your life to Christ, was that, was it like a, well,
first of all, was it like a Pentecostal or like a...
Hey, hey, hey, yeah, that's where Hillsong started. I've seen some Hillsong,
seen them in concert a couple of times. Yeah, yeah, I've got Brutes, I've got friends who
are very good friends with the past, like Brian and Bobby Houston and things like that. So
Bobby Houston had her 50th, Bobby Houston, the senior pastor's wife had a 50th at my friend's
house in Noosa, like very connected there. But that's, that's, that's super interesting. So when
you had your, was it like, you know, did you have an experience or was it just a...
Like a sinner's prayer, dedicated my life kind of thing?
Yeah. Yeah, nothing too fancy, but after that, I got more and more obsessed with it and I started
reading the Bible and I became very obsessed with the Bible, studied it very, very thoroughly and
I was in the drama team, I was on the worship band to play bass guitar.
I went to missions trips, Fine Arts Festival, if there's anybody in the, who was in the A.G.
in the chat, y'all know what I'm talking about, Fine Arts Festival. Saw Kurt Cameron rate comfort,
I've done autographs in my Bible. I did Street Evangelism on Sundays for Saturdays.
I just did all the, all the christiany, all the christiany things. I did all of them.
Yeah.
And good.
We did, so I'm just, there's so much, there's so much similarities between what you're already
saying and what I went through. I think I was 16 though, went to and had this, but I had like a
one of your experience, but my identity being so wrapped up in the church that I was like,
you know, I was constantly like, I'd go to a conference and I'd buy every DVD that I could afford.
I would, you know, buy the t-shirts. I was like, you know, I'll pin myself out with Jesus clothes.
Like I just was so in your face. Like I came into the room, like I used to go to parties
and bring my Bible along because I was like, well, I just come from church, but really I just
wanted to have my Bible. Like I was just obsessed. Like, yeah, keep going. Yeah.
Yeah. You're teenage years, man. You're crazy.
So, so yeah, I'll have the next.
I got out of high school and I went into a like young adults group and would transition from the
youth group to the young adults group.
And I tried to join the military. It didn't work. It wouldn't take me. And then I started getting
recognized by elders in my church. They were like, you, you have a passion, a special passion,
and you know God's work very, very well. Like God has a plan, like multiple,
you know, because they need to believe in the prophetic and all that. So they'd come up to me
and be like, God has a plan, a special plan for you. He's calling you to ministry. He's calling
you to ministry and like, oh my God, you know, I get to serve my Lord and Savior. So I was eating
that. I was eating that up. Absolutely. Yeah. So I ended up going to a Bible college that I couldn't
afford. I went there for two years. Couldn't afford any more. Had to drop out. This is in Knoxville,
Tennessee. It's called Johnson Bible College. And so after that, I was like, I don't know what to
do with my life now. I was homeless. I was eventually an elderly couple from the church
took me into their spare bedroom. And I was like, fuck, I got to do something in my life. So I tried
to get in the military again, and it worked. I joined the, the reason I couldn't make it the
first time is I have a gunshot wound through my shoulder. I was 17. I was a bagger at a grocery
store. And we got robbed and one of the gunmen shot me through the shoulder like point blank from
the back and went all the way through. I was totally fine. Didn't hit any bones or anything.
Didn't hurt. I bled a lot, but that's why that's why I couldn't join the military the first time.
They were like, yeah, all the push ups is going to reopen those wounds, even though I had a doctor's
note. Anyway, so I tried again. This time I did not tell them about the gunshot wound.
They're like, hey, welcome aboard. So I joined the inventory and the army and was immediately
shipped off to Iraq. I was there for a year, finished my contract was three and a half years long,
got out and was like, what would I do with my life now? I have the GI bill now.
They'll pay for my, the military will pay for my college. So I went back to college,
but I went to a different college. It's a University of Valley Forge. It's like a sister
college of Liberty University. Not anything like Liberty. It has its problems, but stellar
stellar professors and not really any scandals during that college. But I had to start all over
because my credits wouldn't transfer. So I have four years, so total six years to get my degree.
I finally did. And the more and more I learned about the Bible, the more questions I had. You
go into Bible college thinking you're the shit, you know, oh, this is going to be easy. No problem.
I know the Bible, man. You hear it every Sunday. Yeah, yeah, you're going to be a breeze.
Wrong, wrong. One of the first things they tell you in Bible colleges, forget everything you've
ever heard about the Bible. It's probably wrong. So we go in and start hearing all these things I'd
never heard before. I started looking at them for myself and it's like, yeah, my beliefs started
changing like one after the other. So graduated Bible college. Go ahead. So what was this going to
say? So like, I had a similar, again, I had a similar experience where I had, you know, I had
a pastor say, there's something on your day if there's something on your day if like, like,
there's something about me. And then I had, you know, in the middle of a prayer, a few weeks after
being saved, some or praying some lady, some youth points to me and goes, you're going to do big
things. And like, it just, although I didn't want it to like, kind of grow my ego at the time, it
kind of does grow your ego. This is who I am. Like, I'm a warrior. I remember getting the Warrior
for God or the, yeah, the Warrior for God Award youth group. And I remember, I was like, oh my
God, I've been praying this, I've been literally praying God, turn me into a warrior for you.
Like, it's, it becomes this like, self fulfilling kind of thing where the more work you put in,
the more praise you get and the more praise you get, the more work you put in. And another thing
for me is the youth pastor, I live with my mom, moved up with my dad. And I think I was kind of
looking for like a fatherly figure that was encouraging. My dad's awesome, like a legend,
but he was, he's always kind of always waited for the axe to fall. And so every time I'd come
to him with good news, it wasn't like a celebration. It was just be careful of this or be careful of
that. And the youth pastor was like, Dave's great. Dave's awesome. Dave's amazing. And I think I
found like a fatherly figure in the youth pastor. So it became this like, this like very internal,
like took me to be like, six or seven years after, after leaving the church to work out,
well, is that what actually happened to me in those times? But it's, it's amazing how that ego,
like that, that, that, you know, well, this is, this must be true. And, you know, you come here
for foosball or whatever, like the games and like, well, this must be true. And then I'll learn more
about it. And oh, if it's true, then this, this is true. And then kind of builds your ego. And
yeah, so I can relate to that a lot. You're getting social approval that you didn't know
you were before. Yeah, exactly. Like for me, I was a weird teenager, like growing up.
So like this was, I got social acceptance. You know, when I went to church, they were all excited
to have me there. Maybe if you're welcome, like I said, I was like, oh, it was social acceptance,
social approval. And in the midst of it, all you're going through an identity crisis, right?
You're a teenager. What am I? What am I like? And you're like, Jesus, I'm gonna, I'm gonna be all
about Jesus. So it's kind of, you know, I'm, I'm gonna be all about Jesus. Oh, the more I'm all
about Jesus, the more social acceptance I get. Oh, so it's, you know, becomes this, this cycle
how they can't get out of. Yes, that's my experience.
So did you start, like when you started Bible college, was it a Bible college or was it like a
ministry college? Like were you? It was academic. Yes, academic, it's fully accredited. It's kind of
both. So most, most majors are ministry based. There's like the most popular major at the college
is like pastoral ministry or youth ministry or missions, or music ministry, things like that.
And then there's theology. Theology is one of the least popular majors. Not a lot of people
pick that. I picked that because I was more interested in learning, you know, the Bible.
I figured, you know, I wanted to be a pastor or a Bible scholar or something. I wasn't really sure.
I was like, God, you can be a pastor really easily after getting a degree, like you get
certified and everything right there. And then you can go off and get a job as a pastor.
I was like, maybe I'll do that. But I can learn how to be a pastor on the job. All I was worried
about is interpreting the Bible and preaching the Bible accurately. So that's why I took theology.
I was interested in all the ideas in theology and how they changed over time and what influenced
those changes. And that's what I really wanted to dig into. And of course, I thought I was really
trying to really wasn't in love with Jesus and love with God. And I thought that was a way of
growing my relationship with him is learning more about him and the truths about him that other
people have discovered. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Did you was your church a type of church that like
spoke in tongues and dealings? Did you speak in tongues yourself? I did briefly. But I felt
weird doing it. I stopped. When you speak in these churches, they set up like, it's called the infant
and the assemblies of God, one of the like core tenets is tongues is the initial evidence of the
infilling of Holy Spirit. So speaking tongues, my church wasn't like, you're going to go to
hell if you don't speak in tongues. There are churches like that. I was just like,
if you speak tongues, that that's how everybody knows that you're filled with. That's like you
leveled up. So that's another like one of those social incentives. So they set up a service.
They'll like preach a sermon about the powering of the Holy Spirit. And then they'll
they'll, you know, pray the songs that will like ignite a certain emotion in you. And then
they'll have the elders come around and like lay their hands on you and pray on you and they'll
speak in tongues. They'll just be like, the Holy Spirit's filling you right now. Go speak in tongues.
Dude, just do it. Just do it. Just do it. Go, go, do it. And then you do.
Step of faith. Yeah. And you do. And it was like, that was kind of weird. I don't know how I felt
about that. I remember, I remember going for a job run when I was, before I had my spiritual
experience, I would say I was still a Christian, but I was kind of walking away from God and I
went for a run. I was like, Oh God, I need you. I want the gift of tongues. And I started and I
just tried and I started speaking in tongues twice. And then I found out later, theologically,
I think, correctly, if I'm wrong, you've got the degree. Don't you need to get the gift of tongues
by laying on a hand? Like, isn't it like, you can't pray for it yourself. You need to like,
it needs to be like someone imparts the Holy Spirit into you as a baptism or something. Like,
like, I remember being a bit conflicted, like, wait, what was I doing that? Like, if I,
did I get the gift of tongues or not? Like it was, it was a confusing moment for me.
Yeah, first Corinthians 12, I think. I might be wrong with that. Yeah, I think you couldn't,
you can interpret it that way. My issue with the tongues, aside from just feeling weird,
is I couldn't find the scriptural basis for it. Because there's, there's different types of tongues.
There's glossolalia, there's isolalia, there's xenolalia. Glossolalia is the, the is just fancy
$5 words that don't really mean anything. So glossolalia is like the gibberish that you hear
but the thing is, in where the verse comes from, the initial infilling of the Holy Spirit is from
Acts chapter two. And it's where the Holy Spirit, you know, fills the upper room and something like
tongues of flame appear above their heads. And they start speaking in unknown languages.
What that meant is they were speaking in other languages that they didn't know. And the next
verse, there's people outside of the upper room that could hear them and understand them. Yeah.
Language. So they weren't speaking the glossolalia, they were speaking the isolalia, I think it was.
So I'm like, okay, if tongues is initially the, the initial evidence, the infilling of the Holy
Spirit, and this is the verse that's used to justify that doctrine, why are we not speaking
other languages? Like, you hear stories, like it's an area is going like, oh, I spoke a language.
So like this, this, this doesn't add up, this doesn't seem biblical. This was like,
probably one of the first like, bits of deconstructing for my denomination. And I was just like,
I don't think I buy this doctrine. It's, I can't find scriptural basis for it.
I will say, there was a difference for sure, from like, if I was just to start speaking in
tongues now, which I can still do. If I was to start speaking in tongues now, there's a difference
between that. And when I'm under a huge hypnotic state of worship or something, like I, an experience
that I had, and again, I don't, I don't attach, well, not again, but I don't attach the conclusions
to these experiences, but I still had the experiences. I just don't attach the experience,
like the truth claims to the, but like the experience I had, I saw Judah Smith. Do you
know who Judah Smith is? Or Judah Smith? Maybe it was, was that a Planet Shakers conference in,
in, in Brisbane? And, and they had so many people come there to knock down the back wall and make
it like a 360 degree kind of stage. And I remember the, the preach wasn't all that.
God told me at the end, you need to go down and repent for something. And I was like,
all right, so I went down to the bottom and I was on my knees and I spoke in this really,
I guess it's, it just came out of me so much more naturally than I would if I just started
speaking in tongues. I look over actually to, to, to people squatting down, like on their knees,
praying down. I see my younger brother, who was his first time there. So I was crying and it was,
it was a really traumatic, really powerful event. And later actually, my friend said,
I saw angels tonight, man, I saw them like they were coming, they were flying around the
auditorium the whole night. And then, and because I thought he said, he meant like in the vision,
but he said, no, I physically saw them. And he said that, that they were going to the pool at the
bottom of the cross and they're picking up pools of blood and they're flicking it on with all the
people who were at the bottom of the stage. And I was like, damn. And I was like, well, that's,
that's, that's crazy. And I was like, that's must be why I was speaking in different tongues,
because it was a different, I don't know. But there's definitely a difference there. I just
don't think it was has anything to do with them. In the same way, when I see a hypnotist, I don't
go, hmm, it must be the demons or something. I just go, some strange psychology, I don't understand
yet. There are emotions that are artificially created and interpreted for you. They, they
set the law in a certain way. They play a certain type of music with a certain kind of chord progression.
There's like a whole science to it. Yeah, you get in that mood. And of course, there's the people
around you are also so you're all kind of in one mind. It's like a hive mind. We're all having
these experiences. And it's, that's because it's all, it's a whole emotionally charged thing.
And this is something for someone who is listening to this and goes, well, that sounds
strange today. Like, how can you deny something like that? This is why I think this is a, this,
what I'm about to say is a big reason why I think it is just something psychological,
because some people sitting in that room can not feel anything. And if the presence of God,
the creator of the universe, the omnipresent, omnipore loving or powerful God of the universe
is in a room, no one in that room should be able to just close their heart and not feel it.
Like that, that, that, that makes no sense. Like, I mean, like, if a lion was in a room,
I couldn't just close my heart and not notice the lion. I would notice the lion. Like the,
you know, I'd be scared of the lion. I'd be terrified. There's a lion in this room with me.
So that, to me, makes, it makes more sense for why it's probably something psychological in nature.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. So how did you go from that in Bible college to deconstructing? What was,
see, you mentioned your first, yeah. I still identified as, as a Christian, I was still a
member of a church for two or three years after I graduated. But I was, you know, still wrestling
through a lot of things. And eventually, I was like, I don't think I'm a Christian anymore.
Was this at Bible college? This is like two or three years after Bible college.
Oh, okay. Yeah. I was still, still involved with the church. I was still in a worship band.
I was still in a leadership position. But I was like, you know, in my own private time, I was like,
I don't, I don't feel like a Christian anymore. I don't think I believe in this. I didn't stop
believing in God yet. But I was, you know, I was plugged in this church. So I was still going through
the motions and friends there and everything. Kind of kind of faked it, I guess. And then
when I stopped believing in God was an entirely different thing. This will get a little bit heavy.
Heads up.
My three biological kids, one steps on. When my third kid was born,
he almost didn't make it. He had, when my ex-wife, now ex-wife, I was pregnant with him,
there was two heart rate monitors on him, and they both flatlined at the same time.
So we ran, we rushed her to the emergency C-section, to have an emergency, the OR.
And I thought I was going to go in there with them. They shoved me in this little cold room.
And so it's felt like a fucking eternity in there. Really only like 11 minutes, I think,
over 13 minutes. They wheeled him by me. When I was alone in that room, I was praying for the
first time in a long time. I was like, God, spare my son. I'll do whatever, you know, the whole prayer
of desperation type thing. And then lo and behold, they wheeled him by me. He had to spend some time
in the NICU, but he was fine. He's an asshole, but I love him.
It's not great. It's not amazing that you, like, yeah, I call my little five month old,
I'm like, oh, he's a little shit. I want to avoid him.
Yeah, but I'm sorry you went through that. That sounds horrible.
So I kind of like relapsed a little bit. Like sort of like, okay, I feel like I owe God something
now. And I started listening to worship music again, started trying to pray more regularly,
read the Bible again. But I still couldn't, that had his own thought like I used to be a
security guard for a hospital. It's the security guard's job to take the bodies
of the deceased and take them to the morgue. So I would stand outside of these rooms while the
loved ones are like just bawling their eyes out. And they're praying.
And it, you know, that's a miracle. And of course, it doesn't happen.
So I'm like, okay, hold on. Why are all these, all these people have seen pray for their loved
ones? And they didn't get the miracle they asked for. But I got the miracle I asked for that,
that doesn't make any sense. So it just started like more on a logical basis, I guess, thinking
about the existence of God and like all the terrible things that have happened, you know,
the theodicy, the problem of evil. And it's just like my one anecdotal experience,
you know, in a very emotionally vulnerable state is not good evidence that God exists.
But I was still, so I was having these thoughts and I was still very scared of these thoughts.
I wasn't ready to give up belief in God because I thought, you know, I was a good person, I was
serving him in some capacities, proud of me, whatever, I don't know. But I couldn't help but stop
believing. I started feeling that my belief in him kind of drift away. And one day I was praying
or I was driving. And I started praying, probably the most authentic prayer I've ever prayed in my
life. And I was crying and everything I was like, God, I, you know, my heart, every hair on our
head is numbered. I need you to show me in some way that you're still there for me because I'm
about to stop believing in you and I don't want to. He was like, you're all knowing you're all
powerful, you know me, you would know the bare minimum that it would take to reassure me that
you're there for me. I'm not asking for a miracle. I know this is not how you work. I'm not asking
for you to like flip a mountain upside down and make ducks pop out of it. I'm not asking for
anything crazy. Just something, the bare minimum to let me know. And as soon as I asked that, I was
just like, I'm not going to get any kind of answer because God's not real. And it was just, I just
had peace. You know, just the deafening silence that, oh my God, there's no God. There isn't. If
there was, then it started thinking things, you know, thoughts you never had before, like what,
why doesn't God ever just show up and tell everybody, Hey, fuckers, I'm here and I'm real.
Totally logical questions that the church trains you never to ask. And suddenly you start feeling
free to ask them. And it was like, yeah, I don't, I think I'm an atheist.
So are you attending church at this time? I stopped going to church after that.
Okay. Did you have to? About the same time I moved. So it was, it was okay to stop going to church.
Yeah. I was like, yeah, I'm not, I'm not finding another church family. I'm not getting involved in
whatever group or, and I'm not doing all that anymore.
Second rarity. Yeah. So I was, I was kind of a closet atheist for maybe five years or so.
Or two or three years. I listened to like some of the podcast, you know, puzzles and
thunderstorms on podcasts and I said, I've learned who Dave Warnock was and everything
is a friend of mine now. But I was, I was never like in involved in the atheist community. I
didn't really know there was one. I didn't go looking for one. I was just like, I'm good. I'm good.
Yeah. I, during similar story to every everyone who gets suddenly unexpectedly popular on TikTok
during the pandemic, I downloaded the stupid app and started making videos because I was losing my
mind. And then boom, I started, you know, I made, I started making out like political commentary
and humorous videos and things like that. Oh, you're a big Trump guy. Hey, you're a big Trump guy.
Like, yeah, you told me before that secretly you're a you love Trump. I'm kidding. This is your
um, I just, I don't know. I don't know that could be, that could be, I don't even know,
but this is your, this is TikTok. I'm a TikTok user. So, you know, obviously Trump's my guy.
Yeah. But um, you've got like 570,000 followers and damn, I need to check out some of your stuff
because like, um, you know, I'm on, I'm on, I'm on TikTok sparingly. Um, or when I am on TikTok,
I usually don't, it's, it's to get away from all the God stuff that I'm always talking about.
But this looks like, you know, you've got some, you've got some real stuff here. So I'm gonna
have to check it out. Um, yeah, I've got a playlist of just, uh, of just like my talking about the
Bible and theology and church history. Um, because other than that, it's, it's kind of chaotic.
Yeah. There's, um, the, so if the link to that is in the description, of course, um,
people can check it out, um, follow you there, um, of course. And, uh, when summer is over,
I'm sure you're going to be getting back to a regular schedule or something. Um, you've got,
is it, is the kids' holidays at the moment? Is that what's, is that the main thing that's?
Yeah. All the kids are out of school, uh, so they're home with May 24 seven. So it's
very noisy. It is never any quiet. So I did, um, I just decided, you know,
I'm not going to make any content over the summer.
We have a tiny backyard. Like we like, I can, like the, the fences from my fence of it,
it's like a meter and a half right from it. We've got a tiny property,
but we're talking about getting a tiny little pool, like a tiny pool. If we can save up for it
and get it. And then I thought of myself because we have Atlas, our little boy. I was like,
I don't want to pull. I was like, why do I want to pull? That means all his punk
hospital friends are going to come over here. They're going to walk water all through the
house. It's going to be like annoying rather than going to their house and ruining their,
his friends' houses. Don't let them come here. Like, no, we want less reason for our kids to be
at our house. Let them go play at their friend's house and ruin all their friends' stuff. Like,
I don't want, you know, and that was actually a huge reason why I was like, no, I'm not even
going to pursue the, the, the idea of a pool like that. I don't want kids around. So, uh,
yeah, I love him. Love the little bastard. But yeah, same. So, okay, cool. So,
all right, well, I'm really excited to learn. So your deconstruction process, you know,
a lot of the things you had was the obvious theology, Bible history. What on earth is that?
I want to learn about what you found in Bible college that has, that changed your faith.
And I was wondering if we could start the presentation. And I hope you don't mind if I
interject throughout it. Absolutely. All right, let me switch my screenage around a little bit.
This, just so everyone's aware, this is going to be, this is a long-ass presentation. It'll
probably take up the majority of the rest of the episode, but we'll keep the conversation kind of,
we'll keep a little bit of a conversation kind of flowing, but I'm just here ready to learn
and drink spice rum. So, check some questions in the chat. I'll, and I'll try and get to them.
And super chat if you definitely want any questions read, but yeah, otherwise.
Yeah, feel free to interrupt or ask questions or over thoughts. Otherwise, I'm just going to go.
But this presentation, it'll go by fairly quickly. It is long, but I have a lot of sources on there.
So get your screenshot buttons ready. This is a lot of the stuff you'll be able to use if you're
ever arguing with atheists online. So I, yeah, I made it so that you could do that with it.
That's wrong button.
There we have, where's this right one? We're going to start with this one.
Does that work? Yeah, let's know.
Cool. Can you, um, yeah, put into, oh, that's the wrong one. All right.
Hmm. Actually, one thing I'll do before we jump in is I will just quickly,
as you're finding that, I will just shout out tomorrow is my birthday. So we're doing a spontaneous
stream to continue the conversation I had with Kip Davis, test for the eyewitness evidence.
So we were going through Lee Strabble's book, Case for Christ, and we're going to be, you know,
he's written a lot of notes on this section. And you know what, like it's my birthday and I was
like, you know what, I actually do want to, I do want to just sit there and like learn about,
let's examine the eyewitness evidence. So it's kind of a, it's kind of a continuation of the
last three hour episode that we did together, which is this episode here. And it's kind of a
continuation. It's very good. Yeah. Yeah. And of course, in the future, we'll have, um,
Dettasai McDonald's, we'll have, um, uh, Matthew Munger and we'll have Paula Gia and, you know,
lots of cool guests coming up. Um, so make sure you subscribe, but let's jump into this.
Uh, go ahead and put that back up. Yep. There we go. Night here. Of course, yes.
Love you. Watch the go to bed. All right. Good night, watchers.
Examining the new testament. How many testing authors manipulated the Hebrew Bible?
I'm going to start a kind of a weird place, but trust me, uh, Hebrews 10,
five through seven. Therefore, when he came into the world, he says, sacrifice and offerings
you have not desired, but a body you have prepared for me and hold the burnt offerings and sacrifice
for sin. You take no pleasure. Then I said, behold, I have come in the scrolls of the book.
And that is written of me to do your will. Oh God. This is a quote from Psalms 40 verse six,
uh, great sacrifice and meal offering. You do not desire my ears. You have opened.
That's a little bit different than a body you have prepared for me.
Right. I don't think it sound like it's talking about Jesus. You prepare Jesus body for me as
a sacrifice. No, it's, it's originally you opened my ears. Right. And then again, uh,
uh, burnt offering and sin, uh, sin offerings, you have not required. Uh, but in the original,
or nobody says, I take no pleasure. Uh, but in the verses quoting, you have not required.
Again, not the same thing. Uh, behold, I have come to do your will. Oh God.
I delight to do your will. Oh my God. Your law is within my heart. Leave that part out completely.
So already we're starting to see how they're, they're the New Testament authors and we, the
author of Hebrews is an honest, we only wrote it. Um, but it's taken a lot of liberties with how
he's translating these verses, right? And that's going to be a common thing. So just quickly,
is Hebrews 10, is that, is that directly referenced? Like, is it, does it say that it's
referencing Psalms or is that just like, um, like, does he say, as is written in the scrolls?
Well, like it says in his parentheses in the scrolls of the book that is written.
Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. It doesn't say, yeah, I'm quoting from the Psalms.
Yeah. Yeah. This is like the closest verse, you know, yeah, um, that matches what he's quoting.
Yeah. Cool. So what is the role of sacrifice and atonement and sin? It's a big,
a big claim that Christians make about Jesus. Leviticus 16, 7 through 10.
Two goats are going to be picked. Aaron shall cast lots for the two goats. Aaron shall offer the
goat of which the lot of the Lord fell and make a sin offering. This might as well be a little bit
dry. Bear with me. But the goat of which the lot of the scapegoat fell shall be presented alive
before the Lord to make atonement upon him to send it into the wilderness as a scapegoat.
So it's two goats. The high priest Aaron is supposed to cast the lots. One goat is presented
for the Lord as a sacrificial offering. The other goat is the scapegoat. He's not killed.
He's sent into the wilderness. Verse 15 to six, then you shall slaughter the goat of the sin offering,
which is for the people. The point of this, of this goat being sacrificed was to cleanse the
temple. The temple becomes ceremonially unclean if someone enters into it after accidentally
committing a sin. The Old Testament accidentally committing a sin is like you stumble upon a dead
body. It's not something you did on purpose, but you're still unclean from doing that.
I think it was the verse in Leviticus where like you're chopping an axe or you're chopping an axe.
You're chopping wood with an axe and the axe head comes loose and flies and kills somebody.
You didn't commit murder, but you're ceremonially unclean now.
So that's what it is. Like if you're unclean, the temple needs to be cleansed on a regular basis.
So that's what happens here. So anytime you hear Christians say that Jesus is the scapegoat,
our sins were put on because the scapegoat is where the atonement comes in the Old Testament.
Your sins are placed on the scapegoat and then it's released. So when Christians say that Jesus
is a scapegoat, our sins were put on him and he was sacrificed, the scapegoat didn't fucking die.
The scapegoat wasn't sacrificed. The scapegoat gets to go free. It's the other goat that gets killed.
So read your Bible, people.
Substitutionary atonement is actually forbidden in the Hebrew Bible, Deuteronomy 24-16.
Fathers shall not be put to death for their sons, nor shall sons be put to death for their
fathers. Everyone shall be put to death for their own sins. Ezekiel 18, 1-4.
Then the word of the Lord came to me saying, What do you mean by using the proverb concerning the
land of Israel? Saying, The fathers eat of the sour grapes and the children's teeth are set on edge.
As I live, declares the Lord, You are surely not going to use this proverb in Israel anymore.
Behold, all souls are mine. The soul of the Father as well as the soul of the Son are mine.
The soul whose sins will die. Substitutionary atonement, which is the doctrine of Jesus dying
on the cross for our sins, is forbidden forever in the Old Testament. There's no provisions for this,
but this is what the New Testament authors are trying to reconcile.
Right, so do you think that the New Testament authors, they know this and they're like,
how do we make this work? Is that what they're doing or do you think they're just missing something?
So I think the New Testament authors believe that Jesus is a messiah, which we're going to get into.
A messiah is in... We'll get into it. But they're so convinced that they have to reconcile.
The New Testament authors did the exact same thing that apologists do today.
Okay, there's this verse that goes against my idea, but I'm so convinced that my idea is true.
I got to find a way to explain this way.
Yeah, so that's what the authors are doing. They took certain liberties with how they interpreted
the Old Testament. And again, we're going to get into that. It's a lot of Hellenism
and Stoicism, Greek philosophy that came into those motivations. But anyway,
so how are your sins forgiven in the Old Testament? You just repent. That's it. You've got to offer
sacrifice. Exodus 32, Moses convinces God not to kill the Israelites for worshiping the golden calf.
God was going to kill all the Israelites and God was like, no, please don't. And God was like,
I'll write you. You talked me into it. Second Samuel 12, Nathan rebukes God,
rebukes David, and God forgives King David. He says, and God forgave him. He just repented.
God forgave him. First Kings 8, forgive your enemies who have sinned against you and repent.
Psalms 40, sacrifices I do not desire. Psalms 31, you do not delight in sacrifices, but he
broke into a contrite heart. Jeremiah 7, I did not command your fathers when I brought them out
of Egypt concerning sacrifices and offering. I commanded them to obey my voice. It's true.
In the book of Exodus, God delivers the Israelites out of slavery in Egypt. He doesn't be like, okay,
now here's how you offer all the sacrifices in the correct way. He didn't do any of that.
He just wanted obedience or follow the statues. Jeremiah 31, everyone will die for his own
iniquity, kind of like we were just talking about. I will make a new covenant and put my law on their
hearts. I will forgive their iniquities and forgive their sins. No sacrifice required.
Zika 33, I take no pleasure in the death of the wicked, rather that the wicked turn to me.
Isaiah 14, return to the Lord so that he may take away your iniquity. Jonah, the entire
nation of Nineveh. God was going to wipe out Nineveh like he did in Sodom and Gomorrah.
Jonah delivered a prophecy and they repented. And God was like, okay, that's it. No sacrifice.
He was going to kill all of them and they repented. Micah 6, with what shall I come to the Lord and
bow myself before the God on high? Shall I come to him with burnt offerings, with yearly calves?
Does the Lord take delight in thousands of rams and 10,000 rivers of oil? Shall I present my first
born for my rebellious acts, a fruit of my body, of my sins, of my soul? I have told you, oh man,
what is good? And what does the Lord acquire you to do, justice, to love kindness and to walk humbly
with your God? Probably my favorite, Daniel 4, redeem your errors with charity and your sins
through kindness to the poor. Oh, that's actually a nice... Oh, that's like a... That's actually a nice...
Fucking interesting, right? But it's actually a nice thing. Just like, that's something that I would
stand by now. Like, yeah, that's great. Redeem or something. I'm keeping the pump.
That's going into Muslim money. Favorite quotes. That's great. I like that. So when Paul says,
give up your your possessions, when Jesus tells disciples, give up your possessions.
He's probably alluding to this or something like this anyway.
But yeah, none of these examples, are there any sacrifices given?
What translation are you primarily using? Or are there different translations?
The NASB primarily. New American Standard Bible.
Yeah. It's my preferred only because it's what I'm most used to. Back in the early 2000s, the NASB
was all the rage. I think now it's more of the... Our newer, revised Standard Version is what most
scholars use. But I usually check these with the Greek and Hebrew before I use them as a source.
Because even the NASB gets some things wrong. Not very often, but it happens.
So this is the problem Paul's message. Romans 10. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness
to everyone who believes. Or Moses writes that the man who practices the righteousness,
which is based on the law shall live by that righteousness. But the righteousness based on
the faith speaks as follows. Do not say in your heart, who will ascend into heaven? That is the
being of Christ down. And who will descend into the abyss? That is the bringing up of Christ.
But what does it say? The word is near you in your mouth and in your heart. That is the word of
faith in which we preach. He's quoting Deuteronomy 30. But he misquotes it. The word is very near to
you in your mouth and in your heart. That you may observe it. That you may observe it. He leaves
that part out. He doesn't quote the whole thing. He leaves that part out because it doesn't fit
his narrative. So it's like spinning it, right? It's like spinning everything else in the Old
Testament. Wow. And because Paul's message was to the Gentiles, right? Like he was primarily
focused on to the Gentiles. So he's kind of giving like a nod, nod, wink, wink to the Hebrews that
may be used for that may have been watching, listening. Like, look, I'm using the Old Testament,
but his message was primarily for the Gentiles. Exactly. That's the thing. Paul talks about
he says that like the crucifixion is a stumbling block to the Jews. Paul had a hard time converting
Jews because they knew the Old Testament or they knew the Torah. They knew the Hebrew Bible very well.
So Paul's speaking to the Gentiles because they don't. So he can say whatever he wants.
And not only do they not know the Hebrew Bible, they can't even read or write. And here's this
guy who is a former Pharisee and he was highly educated. He knew Greek, knew Hebrew, he knew
Aramaic, brilliant guy who like converted after persecuting the church. This guy sounds like
he knows what he's talking about, right? Paul had a personality and they were drawn to him.
And he had an intellect. He knew things that they didn't. So they were taking his word for it. So
he could take these kind of liveries. But he's not the only one who does this.
There's another example. Paul teaches against circumcision, Galatians 5.
Behold, I, Paul say to you that if you receive circumcision, Christ will be of no benefit to you.
And I testify again to every man who receives circumcision that he has under obligation to
keep the whole law. You have been served from Christ. You who seeking to be justified by law,
you have fallen from grace. So saying, if you get circumcised, you're saying that Jesus grace
isn't sufficient for you. You're placing the power into the law, not into the grace of Jesus.
So you shouldn't get circumcised if you're a Gentile. But what's his equal to what you say?
Thus says the Lord, no foreigner, i.e. a Gentile, a Greek, uncircumcised in heart and uncircumcised in
flesh of all the foreigners who are among the sons of Israel shall enter my sanctuary,
or shall not. In other words, no foreigner can enter my sanctuary if you're not circumcised.
That's what Ezekiel says. Well, so, but a Christian would say to this, wouldn't
the Christian say to this, we're under a new covenant now. The old covenant is broken away.
We're under a new covenant. So essentially, that part of Ezekiel doesn't matter.
Well, there is a new there is new covenants mentioned in the Old Testament, but it never
does away with the law. In fact, it says just the opposite. And I'll get to that in a minute too.
Hey, this is exciting. This is this is great. The law was never prophesied to become irrelevant.
Psalms 111, the works of his hands are true and justice and his precepts are sure they are upheld
forever and ever. They are performed in truth and righteousness. Even during the messianic age,
after the Messiah comes, Ezekiel 11, walk in my statues and keep my ordinances.
The law of Moses does not go away. You're blowing my mind here. Can you just go back
to that quickly? Sorry. And I know I'm just extending this out, but I hope this is okay.
When it says they are upheld forever and ever, the the Christian would have to interpret that to be
they are upheld for only a time. And this is the same problem I have with the resurrection of Jesus.
I know the resurrection of Jesus. Sorry, the second coming of Jesus. He says explicitly,
I tell you the truth. This generation will not pass until they see the Son of men coming on the
clouds. I tell you the truth. People standing here today will not taste death and see the,
Son of men coming on the clouds. You have to interpret that to be the exact opposite. I tell
you the truth. This generation will definitely pass away. It will be 2000 years before anything
happens. I tell you the truth. You have to interpret it to be the exact opposite. Imagine
doing that with the resurrection. Jesus died on the cross. Actually, he never went on the cross.
It was the exact opposite of what it says there. How do you pick and choose? I don't know.
Speaking of which, what does Jesus actually say about the Old Testament law and the law of Moses?
Do not think that I came to abolish the law of the prophets. I did not come to abolish the law of
prophets for truly I say to you until heaven and earth pass away. Not the smallest letter or stroke
shall pass from the law until all is accomplished. Jesus literally says I didn't come to abolish the
promise. Not a letter is going to change, but how do Christians interpret this? No, he actually
did abolish it. If I put on my Christian hat, I'll go until all is accomplished. Well,
it was accomplished in the day of Pentecost. Now there's a new temple destroyed and the Holy Spirit
has gone throughout. That's the new temple. It hasn't been abolished. It's there in the Old
Testament. It's fulfilled. They like that word fulfilled. What does that mean that he wants
to fulfill? It means the purpose of the law in the Old Testament was to bring you closer to God.
That's what Jesus is saying. He wants to fulfill the law so that he can become close to God. He
can be righteous and be close to God. Sides, again, until heaven and earth pass away, not a
smallest letter. He didn't say until I die and resurrect or the second coming. He says,
no, heaven and earth has to pass away first and then maybe the law will change.
Bananas. Pretty black and white right there. You're going to really twist yourself into some
pretzels to explain that one away, but they do it. How do people explain that away? What would
inspiring philosophy say? What would testify apologetics say? What would they say?
Or what would Christian Captain Deadpool say? How did you rectify this? Can you
steal man the position? I think he was saying I would rely on the word fulfill. Jesus fulfilled
the law, which means he brought it to fruition and it's taken on a new form. Jesus taught a higher
standard of the law. You say that committing murder is a sin, but I say to you, whoever hates a person
has committed murder in his heart. You committed adultery. But if you lust after a woman, I say
you've committed adultery in your heart. So I would say that when Jesus says
that he's fulfilled the law, that means he's taken it to the next level. He's taken it to the next
standard. And this was very common. Jesus wasn't doing anything special here when he does things
like that. The Pharisees were famous for being very legalistic and now they interpret the law.
They would create laws around the law. To make double sure you don't break them. So don't work
on the Sabbath. So the Pharisees would come around and be like, don't even spit on the ground on the
Sabbath. Because when you spit on the ground, it churns the earth and that's considered work. So
don't spit on the ground. So they would come up with, they would elevate the standard.
So what Jesus is doing here is not weird. It's weird. It was not different. He wasn't the only one
doing it. He was just the most famous. But just like Paul, Ms. her presence in the Old Testament,
Jesus does it too. Luke 4. Or at least the author claiming to be speaking for Jesus, which again,
we'll get into. And they were delivered unto them the book of the prophet Isaiah. And when he opened
the book and found the place where it was written, the spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he
has anointed me to preach the gospel before and he has sent me to heal the broken heart and to
preach deliverance to the captives and to recovering of the sight of the blind to set at liberty them
that is bruised. He's quoting Isaiah 61. But it doesn't say recovering of the sight of the blind.
He says to bring good news to the afflicted. They sent me to bind up the broken hearted.
There's nothing about healing. The Messiah was not prophesied to have divine powers.
He was not prophesied to be to do any healing. He was prophesied to be like a pre incarnate being.
He was very wise, was very studious, very obedient to the Lord. Never had powers to heal or cast out
demons or resurrect from the dead, nothing like that. So Luke, he says, yeah, I'm coming to
recover this sight of the blind, but the passage he's saying is like, bring good news to the afflicted.
Again, just like the other example we said, where it's like I'm preparing the body for you versus
I'm opening up your ear to me. Very different. Luke 22. Now he says to them, again Jesus, these are
my words which I spoke to you while I was still with you and all these things which are written
about me in the laws of Moses and the prophets and the psalms must be fulfilled. Then he opened
their mind and understood the scriptures and he said to them, this is it, this is written,
that the Christ would suffer and rise again from the dead on the third day
and that repentance and forgiveness ascends would be proclaimed in his name
to all the nations beginning from Jerusalem. You know what, you know what, this is quoting?
No. Yeah, I mean, neither. Nobody does. This, this is not an advertisement. This is a made up
shit. This is entirely made up. There's nothing in the law. Is it just missing?
It's made up in the law of Moses and the prophets and the psalms that is said about me.
There is nothing in the Old Testament that says the Christ would suffer and rise again
on the third day for the repentance. Nothing like that. Completely made up.
I have a question. So, so Mark's our first gospel. Then Matthew, Luke, and then John.
Is, does Mark include this? Or is this a later theology?
This is later. This is exclusively in Luke.
I'm pretty sure. That, yeah. Luke has so suspicious.
Luke has some differences that you get overlooked a lot. And again, we're going to get into that a
little bit. What the New Testament got wrong about the Messiah and the Messianic Age?
It's part of a little bit dry. So I'm going to try to get through it kind of fast.
Who exactly is the Messiah supposed to be? A shoot in the spring of Jesse. That's the
King of David, a branch from the roots of the bear fruits, a spirit of the Lord of rest upon
him, spirit of wisdom, understanding, counsel, strength, knowledge, fear of the Lord, the light
of the fear of the Lord. He will not judge by his eyes what he sees, make decisions what he hears,
and with righteousness, he will judge the poor. Nothing supernatural going on here.
Right? He's wise. He's understanding. He fears the Lord. He judges wisely. He's righteous.
Now, nothing about healing, no casting out demons, no dying, no raising it then,
no ascending, no coming again. Nothing like that. The Messiah was supposed to be a king,
someone who was going to restore the throne of David. He was supposed to end the wars,
unite the tribes, and bring peace on earth. And that's what the Messiah was supposed to do.
Other messianic figures. The Messiah is not the only, he's not special. He's just like the next one.
Exodus 4, he, Aaron will speak, and you shall be as God to him. Exodus 7, I have made you,
Moses, God to Pharaoh, and Aaron shall be your prophet. Second Samuel, I will be a father to him,
speak as Solomon, and he will be a son to me. First Chronicles 22, Solomon will be my son.
I will establish his throne over Israel forever, forever. Ezekiel 34, King David is called the
shepherd. Psalms 2, you are my son. Today I have begotten you, speaking of King David.
Psalms 8, God's people are called the son of man. Psalms 95, Moses is called the Messiah in the
wilderness. Psalms 110, the Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand. This is a Psalmist who's
referring to King David, and he's saying that God knows all capitals, even though there's no
capitol in my case in Hebrew. Yahweh has said to my King, sit at my right hand. Isn't Jesus supposed
to sit at God's right hand? Wasn't that? Yeah. Isn't that an adjustment? Yeah. Wait, wait, wait.
Does God have two right hands? What's happening here?
Well, he does. Doesn't he? He has like 100 heads and like four eyes.
So, are you telling me Aaron, Moses, Solomon, King David were all messiahs?
They're all messiahs, yeah. Messiah just means anointed one.
See, I've probably heard this before. When you're anointed as king, there's like oil.
But you were ag, did you all ever like anoint each other with oil and shit?
There was a group of people who were obsessed with Bethel Church in our church, and they used
to run around with like a bottle of like canola oil or whatever, and just like start wiping
on everyone's foreheads in the middle of worship service. So, there was that group of people.
I fucking hated that. That group was just like so up their own ass, like they didn't like Hill song
because it wasn't godly enough, or God, it was just, it pissed me off, like it was just so self-righteous.
But yeah, they used to run around with a bottle of canola oil or mineral oil or whatever, and
just like smear on everyone's face. It was great. We didn't get oil in my church.
This wasn't part of, by the way, this wasn't part of like this, these weren't like
like deacons or, you know, part of the service. They were just like running around, like they were
just congregation members, like, and like gold dust, look it's gold dust, gold dust, and it was
just like someone's makeup on someone's hand, like it was fucking annoying. God, I hated that group.
The rum, by the way, rum makes me a little angry, so I'm getting there. Yeah, keep going.
Struggle a bit more, then. Yeah, and the Old Testament, when you're anointed, the oil is
dumped on you by the gallon. It's not like, it's not like a little cute little, on your
fucking drumfish shit. They waterboard you, and oil. That's how you fucking know you're the messiah.
And all the sand from the desert would stick to you. Oh, God, it couldn't be nice.
Oh, so much sand. I'll be there. And that's, and this is just messianic figures that I mentioned
in the Old Testament. There are lots of extra biblical texts that mention other messianic figures
as well. Yeah, but not getting into that. Well, look, what's going to happen in the last days?
Well, come out in the last days, the mountains of the house of the Lord be established in chiefs
of the mountains. I'll be raised over the hills. Many nations will come and say, come and let us go
to the Mountain of the Lord, the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us about his ways.
So this part right here is interesting, because it's saying that people outside of Jerusalem,
that's non-Jews, or foreigners, like the Old Testament uses, is going to go to the Mountain
of the Lord and go to the Jews in order to learn the ways of the Lord. This is why I tend to think,
some people think that Paul's a fraud. I don't think he was a fraud. I think Paul genuinely
believed what he believed. I think he thought he was this guy. I think he thought it was his job
to bring the knowledge, his knowledge of God to the Gentiles, because of verses like this. And this
is echoed in a few other verses in the Old Testament as well. But the wars will end,
world peace will begin, and God will redeem the Israelites.
David's kingdom will be established, God's temple will be rebuilt as you go through seven. My servant
David will be king over them, and they will all have one shepherd, and they will talk to my ordinances
and keep his statues. Again, and they will keep my statues, God's laws. They'll practice his laws
forever. There'll be an echo. It's a false book, because it has the prophecy of Tyre, so it's all
just thrown out. Tyre failed, so it must be, get it out of the canon. I'm trying to play like angry,
so Christian. The New Testament authors don't seem to think Ezekiel is a false prophet.
We'll get into that. There'll be a resurrection and judgment of the dead. Daniel 12. Now at that
time, Michael, the great prince who stands guard over the sons of your people will rise, and there
will be a time of distress, such as never occurred since there was a nation until that time. And at
that time, your people, everyone who was found written in the book, will be rescued. Many of
those who are asleep in the dust of the ground will wake, these two everlasting life, the others
to disgrace and everlasting attempt judgment. But hold on, before that, the prophet Elijah is
going to usher in the Messianic Age. Malachi, the Italian prophet. Malachi, chapter 3. It's
Malachi. Behold, I am going to send my messenger, and he will clear the way before me. Again,
Malachi, chapter 4. Behold, I am going to send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great
and terrible day of the Lord. Elijah is going to return and usher in the Messianic Age. So hold on.
Was John the Baptist, Elijah? Well, according to Matthew 11, which quotes Malachi, chapter 3,
words of Jesus, John himself is Elijah, who was to come. Interesting. John 1.
John is speaking, John the Baptist is speaking himself here. He's asked, are you Elijah? And he
goes, fuck no. So Matthew, Jesus says, John is Elijah. And in John, John the Baptist says,
no fucking. Are you high right now? I'm not, I'm not Elijah. I reached a youth group and I
preached the sermon. And I was like, do you know that Matthew, like, do you know in Matthew,
it says that John is Elijah? And then the youth pastor's wife said, oh, like from the crowd.
And I went, oh, apparently that's not true. I continue on with something else.
Yeah. Again, he, both of the, you know, Matthew quotes Malachi 3, and John quotes Isaiah 40.
They're quoting the Old Testament again.
I always look for piffy, piffy contradictions. I can throw out someone. So
if someone says there's no contradictions in the Gospels, could I say, is John Elijah?
Would that be a fair question to ask? And then they wouldn't be able to,
is that the one on the classic Omen depends which Gospels you read? Like.
Yeah, this is a good one. Yeah, cool.
Oh, all right. So let's talk about the prophecies that Jesus supposed lethal.
Yeah, let me have a little, let me pour a little bit more of this delicious liquid.
Yeah. I like it. We don't ask. I'm locking it.
It's a zipper.
Little sips at a time. It's good stuff. Grow here on your chest.
I got a lot.
All right.
Some of y'all probably heard me talk about this before.
The virgin birth. This is a prophecy that Jesus will build. You probably heard this before too.
Matthew one, behold, the virgin shall be with child and she shall bear a son and they shall
call his name Emmanuel, which translates to God with us, quoting Isaiah 7 14.
Therefore the Lord himself will give you a son. Behold, a virgin will be with child and bear a son
and she will call his name Emmanuel. Just one problem.
The Hebrew text does not use the word virgin. I use the word hallima, which means young woman
or damsel. The same word is used in Proverbs 30 9 through 20 to describe an adulterous woman.
The verse and the way of a man with a maid of Alma, this is the way of an adulterous woman.
It's the same word being used hallima, the Hebrew word for all.
Yeah. Same word.
The Hebrew word for virgin is vatula. And by the way, I took Greek in college, not Hebrew.
So if I'm mispronouncing these, my bad, the Hebrew for virgin is vatula.
And that can be found in Isaiah 23. I have neither brought up young men nor reared virgins.
And again, a few verses later, 23, he said, you shall exalt no more or cursed virgin daughter of
Sidon. So you look elsewhere in the Old Testament, the word for young woman is used numerous times
in the word for old or for virgin to use numerous times. And the word that's used in Isaiah 714
is young woman. And oh yeah, mustn't forget that child is born in the next chapter.
Read your fucking Bible, people. Keep reading.
So I approached the prophetess and she conceived and gave birth to a son.
And the Lord said to me, name him Mahalo Shalal Hashbaz.
The child in question was Isaiah and his wife, the prophetess's son.
And he has two names, one that's supposed to be referred to by his mother and one that's supposed
to be referred to by his father. And each word has a dual prophecy meaning.
So one is Immanuel and one is Mahalo Shalal Hashbaz.
Yeah, yeah, Isaiah 7 says,
and she will call his name Immanuel and then 83. So I approached the prophetess again,
this is Isaiah, you can see him give birth. Then the Lord said to me, name him. So he's supposed to be
referring to him as Mahalo Hashbaz. Fuck. Rum twists my tongue even more than normal.
Yeah, yeah. I could go on to this for a while, but I'm not going to.
I'm just so interested what Christians would say to this.
They lean very heavily on this being on the two separate names.
Because Mahalo Shalal Hashbaz loosely translates to
hasten the spoil, quicken the booty. In other words, so this is also like,
so in ancient Jewish tradition, you're giving a name that's supposed to like
point to a prophecy or so like God is with us, right? They're in the middle of a war.
So this child is born as like, don't worry, God's with you. And then the second name is quick,
hasten the spoil, quicken the booty. In other words, you're going to come out on top,
you're going to be able to get all of your shit back that was taken from you during this war.
Something hard to summarize in a few sentences, but it's
anyway, I'll have to say, they'll try to say that it's two separate children. It's not. It is not.
Actually had a lady apologist, not many of those.
A woman apologist responded to one of my videos talking about this.
And she offered like that rebuttal that this is a separate child.
And she's actually writing a whole book on the topic.
And I was just like, it's funny here. Here's why you're wrong. Good luck with the book, your writer.
It's funny because I'm trying to write a bit of a secret project at the moment.
But in it, I'm quoting a lot of philosophers and thinkers and theologians and everything.
And it's so hard because I'm trying to get equal representation because I want my lady readers
to be able to identify it. But it's so hard because the patriarch, men have had positions
of education and power throughout history. It's like going back only a couple of hundred years.
It's like there's like almost no women authors that I can even find. It's kind of frustrating.
I also think there's, we're going to go off topic. It's a tad bit here.
There's not a lot of women who are apologists. And I think because the field of apologetics
very much attracts men because it's training men to hold on to their patriarchal narrative.
It's training them to hold on to their position, which is a position of power.
They want to be able to convince you that they're right.
They have the truth and you should be listening to them. Women don't care too much about that.
There's like, all right, go over there and be a fucking idiot. I don't care.
But yeah, I was in theology. I took apologetics courses in college. All guys, all guys.
Why? No, it's because it's a power tool. Fucking dumb. But anyway. Yeah, that was like,
of all the like, Christian apologists, I've had interactions with a lot of them on TikTok.
I think this was like the one woman.
She's like, all right, let me be a little bit more cordial when I respond to this one.
I don't know. Are you trying to be like more,
like you're trying to encourage, it's like, no, no, no, we want more women in these spaces.
I just didn't want to come off as a misogynist.
That's funny because you giving special privilege is kind of misogyny, right?
You kind of, you're not being equal. You're not being, you know,
fair, right? You're showing special privilege. So it's like, what do I do?
Anyway, keep going.
That's fun though. All right. The genealogies of Jesus. Let's talk about them.
There's three genealogies who were born from discussing the lineage of Jesus.
Matthew one, Luke three, and first chronicles one through three.
It's the one you don't hear about very often.
The genealogies of Jesus and Matthew's gospel is nearly identical
with Matthew omitting some of the names as the one in first chronicles up until
Zerubbable. I got a chart up a little bit in a second. Jesus, genealogy, and Luke,
Luke's gospel matches first chronicles as well, but only up until King David's much earlier.
So they're both copying the genealogy that's in first chronicles,
but Matthew takes as much further than Luke does.
And we'll get into why that is in a second.
Yeah, Luke's genealogy, or the genealogy of Luke's gospel matches first chronicles as well,
but only up until David. And in first chronicles and Matthew, David is followed by Solomon.
However, and Luke, King David is followed by Nathan.
This is a huge problem because Luke's attempt to portrayal Jesus as the Messiah,
as Yoltasm explicitly states, that God's kingdom will come from the line of Solomon.
That's a problem. Why is he going through Nathan?
And I did share some verses earlier where God was like my servant Solomon,
will be my son, and his kingdom will reign forever.
But Matthew comes around and is like, let's do Nathan instead, or Luke.
I was like, let's do Nathan instead of Solomon.
So chronicles, first chronicles 22, behold, a son will be born to you,
and you shall be a man of rest, and I will give him rest in all of his enemies.
Why don't I put this verse here? Yeah, here it is.
His name shall be called Solomon. I'll give him peace and quiet in Israel.
I will establish his throne, the throne of his kingdom over Israel forever.
Here it is. Matthew goes through Solomon correctly. David, Solomon, Luke, David, Nathan.
What? No idea.
Someone say that one is the maternal line and one is the, you know, or something, right?
The problem with that is it doesn't say that. It says that the father of Joseph was blah blah.
Yeah, I don't know.
So the claim that apologists will make is that Luke is using Mary's genealogy while
Matthew is using Joseph's. Problem is,
numbers one, and they assembled all the congregation together the first and second month,
and they registered by ancestry of their families, their father's household according to numbers of
names from 20 years up and upwards, head by head, by their father's household.
By their father's household is repeated in every single verse in each genealogy
registration of the rest of the first, or the rest of chapters one and two.
They didn't register households by the women's name. It was always by the father's name.
If you go into
number one, it's two chapters of, and then this house came in and registered their house
by their father's name, and then this house came in registered by the house of their father's name,
and this house, there's never mentioned a woman. You don't need to trace the genealogy of women.
They don't carry the seed. They don't play a role in this. This is the thinking back then.
It was all about the seed.
No, they're not suddenly 30 generations of men, and they're like, oh, and now it's Mary's.
No, it's not how it worked. Luke places Mary in the tribe of Levi,
the tribe that descended from Aaron, not David. Luke 1.34, and behold, even your relative,
Elizabeth, who is the mother of John the Baptist, has also conceived a son in her old age,
and she was called Barron and is now in her sixth month. It's another miraculous birth,
kind of like Mary, but yeah, this is Mary's relative, Elizabeth, of the tribe of Levi.
Luke 1.5, in the day of Herod, King of Judah, there was a priest named Zechariah of the division of
Abijah, and he had a wife and the daughter of Aaron, and he named her Elizabeth.
Mary's relative, Elizabeth, probably cousin, was from the tribe that springed from Aaron,
not David. Does this mean that Matthew's genealogy is more accurate than Luke's
since Luke's goes through Nathan instead of Solomon, and Matthew sticks with that tradition,
goes through Solomon? No. Jeremiah 22.30, thus says the Lord, write this man down childless.
A man who will not prosper in his days, for no man of his descendants will prosper sitting
on the throne of David or ruling over Judah. This passage is referring to King Jehoiachem,
who was cursed to never have a descendant sit on the throne of David due to his sinful rebellion
against God. Jeremiah 22. This is significant because Matthew has him included in the genealogy
of Jesus. Therefore, this therefore would mean that Jesus has a descendant of a cursed lineage
and could not inherit the throne of David. There's Jehoiachem, is he right there?
He's the one, even though it goes through Solomon correctly. This is the guy that was cursed by God
to never have a descendant sit on the throne again. But hey, he does, anyway, somehow.
So this is why there's only genealogies in Matthew and Luke. Mark and John didn't
fuck with the genealogy. They didn't fuck with it. They were smart.
And of course, oh yeah, there's a big problem. If Jesus was born of a virgin,
none of these genealogies was fucking applied to him in the first place.
So you cannot tie Jesus to the throne of David if he's born of a virgin.
So yeah, that's what I like to do. That's the obvious argument in this
apologetic. Jesus was born of a virgin, so these genealogies are obviously wrong. I like to say,
okay, let's remove that argument and keep going. So I like to go further. I'll grant you that.
But there's other problems that you have to deal with. You can explain this away however you want,
but there are more obstacles in your path after that.
That's what I like to do.
What prophecies did or do, what prophecies do Jesus fuck wrong?
It's getting harder and harder to talk.
Yeah, that's part of the game.
Three hours with Kip the other day and on 53%
yeah, but with Dr. Kip and that was wild.
Yeah, wow, she's in the chat too.
Yeah, that was a fun episode. I didn't get to watch it live, but I watched it after.
Oh, cool. I'm going to take some clips from it, I think.
Kip is a man.
So prophecies do Christians think that Jesus was filled. Messiah will be betrayed for 30 pieces.
Absolutely. This is usually what you'll see when they talk about, did you ever hear like
a sermon preached like there's a mathematician that calculated, that Jesus, yeah, you know what I'm
talking about, that Jesus is like trillions and trillions and trillions. Yeah, like the chances
of Jesus of one man fulfilling all these prophecies would amount to like the state of Texas being
buried in quarters like nine feet high or something. Like some crazy shit like that.
But then you just ask, I love, Tracy Harris did this back when the atheist experience was poppin.
She said, I still think it's poppin, but I just love, I love Tracy and Matt a lot.
But she said, she just asked one of the, one of the callers, did the New Testament writers have
access to the Old Testament? And then it was just like a complete defeat to any of these like,
even if it, let's grant it, let's grant that it was under two, you know, Texas is under two
meters of pennies or whatever, like the chances of astronomical, did they have access to it?
Like, could they have written that in there? Yes, the answer is obviously yes. Yeah, so, yeah.
And we'll get into that. So most of those problems, the thing about the Old Testament that you
won't hear in church is the Messiah is not talked about very much. What is talked about a lot is
the messianic age that will come after that the Messiah washer in the Messiah himself as a person,
not a lot about him. You know, we know he's supposed to be from the tribe of the tribe of David.
He's supposed to end the wars, unite the tribes, bring peace, hammer your plow shears into printing
hooks or your swords into, yeah, you know, there's not a whole lot written about him. But what is,
what is detailed numerous places in much more detail is the messianic age.
So when they say things like, Jesus put all these crazy prophecies,
just to fact check them, the Messiah will be betrayed for 30 pieces of silver,
all right, fulfilled in Matthew 26 and 27. But if you look up this verse,
closer to Zachariah 11, I took my staff favor and cut it into pieces to break my covenant,
which I made with all the people. So it was broken on that day. And thus the afflicted in the flock
who are watching, you realize that it was the word of the Lord that said, if it is good in your
sight, give to me my wages if it is not never mind. So Zachariah is in charge of like a certain group
of people. I think it's appointed to him by the Lord and he gets tired of it because they're not
doing what he's saying. As he gets pissed off, he breaks his staff. And he's like, pay me or don't,
I don't really care. I quit. I'm done with this job. That's what's happening in this verse.
So they weighed out 30 shekels of silver as my wages. Then the Lord said to me, throw it to the
potter, that magnificent piece at which I was valued by them. So I took the 30 shekels of silver
and threw them to the potter in the house of the Lord. And I cut into pieces my second staff union
to break the brotherhood between Judah and Jerusalem. So he's, he's, he's paid 30 shekels of silver.
And then God tells him to buy a pretty pot with the money. That's not being, that's not prophesying
the Messiah is going to be portrayed. We're all in government by for 30 shekels of silver.
That's not at all what's happening here. This is just a story of them being pissed off and be like,
pay me or don't, I don't care. And they're like, all right, we'll pay you 30, 30. And then God's like,
hey, I saw this bitch in pot over there go buy that. And he goes, all right, yeah, he buys his pot.
And then he breaks another staff. There's no betrayal here. And I'm being, I'm being facetious.
There's, there's no betrayal here. There's no prophecy here.
But that's usually what you get when you, when you dig into those like claims that Jesus
wrote all these prophecies and you actually like look into them. It's usually some bullshit like
this. This is not a prophecy. Prophecy, actual prophecy. And the Old Testament usually starts with
in the last days, in those days, this will happen in the coming time that
so that they're trying to pull like prophecy out of narrative. And you can't do that.
It's a, I've heard this too. Is it true that generations typically own like only the only
supposed to happen within a generation or two, then there's no such thing like in the Old Testament
as a prophecy that happens like 500 years later. It's like prophecies are for the people in that
time. Yeah, pretty much. For the most part, yes. There's probably a couple of exceptions. I can't
think of them now. But yeah, pretty much everybody who's making a prophecy in the Old Testament,
just like in the New Testament, you alluded to earlier when Jesus was like,
somebody who would still be alive or see the kingdom of God coming at hand. It's very similar
in the Old Testament. They're, they're writing to like comfort themselves and their audience
about what's happening to them because what's happening. It was horrible. And they're like,
don't worry. It's going to get better. They're not talking about 500 years in the future.
They might be talking about the next generation. They might be talking about the,
maybe the generation after that, maybe they're not talking about 500 years in the future.
They're talking about something that's happening like in their timeframe.
Okay. Where was I?
The suffering servant. This is a big one. Christians like to use this in the Old
Time. Isaiah 52. Behold, my servant will prosper. He will be high lifted up and greatly exalted.
His appearance was marred more than any man. He was pierced through for our transgressions.
Hmm. Okay. All right. By his scourging, we were healed by his stripes. We were healed.
You know, this quoted a lot in sermons, but the Lord caused his the iniquity of all of us to
fall on him. Oh, okay. All our sins are iniquities are put on this, this suffering servant.
Like a lamb led to the slaughter, like a sheep that is silent or shears. But the Lord was pleased
to crush him, putting him to grief. He will see his offspring. He will prolong his days
and the good pleasure of the Lord will prosper in his hands. Okay. This, this sounds,
this sounds a little like Jesus, right? Just one problem.
Oh, this is written in the past tense.
Like I was saying, how prophecies are written in the Old Testament in those days happened.
In that time that prophecy is not written in the past tense. He was pierced. Who was pierced?
This, this was, this was like four or 500 years before Jesus.
What are you talking about? So then who was the servant? What are these passages talking about?
You're taking out a context. Here's the context. Isaiah 40 again.
This is Isaiah 52. Go back a little bit. Read it in this context. Go back to verse 4 to chapter 48.
I declare the sound of Joel will shout proclaim that proclaim this send it out to the end of the
earth and say the Lord has redeemed his servant Jacob. Isaiah 49 the next chapter. He said to me,
you are my servant Israel. That's who the suffering servant is the entire nation of Israel.
Hold on. Hold on. Isaiah 49 who formed me from the womb to be his servant. Okay. That sounds
like it's talked about one person, right? A whole nation isn't, isn't formed out of the womb. Isn't
oh wait, go back to chapter 46. Listen to me, oh house of Jacob and all the remnant of the house
of Israel. You who have been born by me from birth and have been carried from the womb.
It's still talking about the nation of Israel. That's the suffering servant. That's the
Congress that's being written in Isaiah. They were kicked out of the homeland, sent into the
Exile of the Babylon Exile, and they're trying to reconcile God's will for them as God's chosen
people. What is happening to us? But why are we, we've dedicated our lives to serving God.
Why are we being punished? Don't worry. I actually had a friend. You're going to be redeemed. Good.
I had a friend who went through ministry college and they said, oh, I'm learning about why the
Jews, I asked them and they said, oh, I'm learning about why the Jews don't accept Jesus. And I said,
why is that? And then they said, oh, I think she passed her assignment. They don't have Isaiah 53.
And I was like, oh, interesting. Anyway, I went away and looked at it and I was like,
they do have Isaiah 53. It's there. How did they even pass their exam? It was bizarre to me,
but yeah, it's clearly, in every other instance, the suffering servant is Israel, Jacob.
But hold on. Yeah, you're exactly right. But if Isaiah 53 is talking about Jesus,
keep that same energy, right? Don't, don't, don't lose it. Keep that same energy when you get to
the next chapter, because the next chapter, the suffering servant is a barren woman.
Shout for joy, oh, barren one, you who have been born with no child, for your husband is your maker.
You can't say that Isaiah 53 is about Jesus. And then like for ignore 54, where suddenly he's a woman
who can't have kids, right? So when they say you're taking out a context, go, no,
bitch, you are, you're taking out a context. Read the next chapter. Read the chapter before it.
When were the chapters put together? Like in the original Isaiah, where there are chapters,
or is it just one? Yeah, in the original, there was no chapters, there were no verses,
there was no title pages, there were no spaces, there was no capitals or lowercases.
Everything you read this. So a traditional Hebrew in Jesus' time would read this from just like one
long letter, essentially one long scripture. So yeah, right. So when you look at it like that,
yeah, yikes. It's interesting because you take like, like I said, there's no capital lowercase
in Hebrew. There isn't Greek, but on Hebrew. So when you read the Old Testament, and you see Lord
in all capital letters, supposed to be Yahweh, and then you see Lord with just a capital L,
and all the rest are lowercase, you're like, oh, this, this Lord is talking about God, and this Lord
is talking about a king or something, and you're like, that's not how Hebrew works.
That doesn't, that was added later. Like, yeah, maybe they use like context clues
to determine when it's talking about God and when it's talking about a king. Yeah, but
that was added later. Same thing again with spaces.
Look at the great Isaiah scroll. Everything's fucking scrunched together. I can't imagine Dr.
Gibson in the chat. I don't know how y'all do that. How do you read Hebrew? It's bananas to me.
Yeah, so all the chapters, all the verses, all these spaces, all the titles you see
in the, in the Bible, they were not originally there. So yeah.
Paul misquotes the prophecy. Going back to talking about Paul.
The Jews must return to God before the Messiah can come. This is important.
As Isaiah 59-20, a Redeemer will come to Zion to those who turn from transgressions in Jacob.
The Redeemer will come to Zion to those who have turned from transgression in Jacob,
declares the Lord. As for me, this is my covenant with them.
Right. Those who have turned can't, can't emphasize this enough. They have already
turned. They've turned from their ways and that's when God's like, okay, they are ready
to receive me now. But what does Paul say in Romans 11? All Israel will be saved just as,
just as it's written. Exactly as it's written, you guys. The Deliverer will come from Zion.
He will remove ungodliness from Jacob. Where does it say that?
They're supposed to repent from their sins and return to God and then Messiah will come.
But in Romans, he's like, he's going to come and remove ungodliness. Really? Just like,
just like that? Just remove? Not a problem. Don't worry about it, guys. It's going.
This is my covenant with them. When I take away their sins.
I'll go back to Isaiah 39, declares the Lord. As for me, this is my covenant with them.
I will take away their sins. That's not in there. He added that shit.
Completely made up. He probably had the Pharisee edition.
The new Pharisee translation.
He added a line. Just like he did a few other time examples I gave.
They're adding shit. That's not in the Old Testament.
That they're getting from their own theology.
Interesting.
Psalms 22. Dr. Kip helped me out with this one.
He can't want to show it quite a while back and explain this to me in thorough detail.
It's very fun. But this is a big one that Christians like to use.
Psalms 22. Many bulls have surrounded me. Bulls of
Hashan have circled me. They open wide their mouths at me as they're ravaging and roaring lion.
I am poured out like water. I am bowed to my bone, joined my joint. Heart like wax,
blah, blah, blah. He's suffering. Shit's not good right here.
Dogs have surrounded me. A band of evil doers ever come to me.
And they pierced my hands and my feet. Oh, interesting. They pierced his hands and his feet.
Weird. Problem is, again, not only is this not a prophetic text,
crucifixion was not a thing in King David's kingdom.
They weren't crucifying. They weren't piercing people's hands and feet in David's kingdom.
Maybe they were beheading people. Maybe they were hanging people.
Crucifixion was not a thing back then. So what is this talking about?
Oh, this is actually a prophecy. That's obvious.
Problem is, another problem. That's a mistranslation.
If you look in the Hebrew, they encompass me as lions, hands of me and feet of me.
They pierced. They encompass me as lions. So you go back and read this.
Bulls have surrounded me. Bulls have encircled me like roaring lions.
Where's the other one?
Like boars. There's all these like animals. Their tongues cleaved in my jaw.
And suddenly his hands and his feet are pierced. So it makes so much more sense that it's like,
oh, and there's this versus supposed to, fuck, lose my train of thought.
All I'd say, that's a mistranslation. And here's why.
The New Testament quotes Psalms 22 a lot.
Psalm 221, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me?
Why are you so far from saving me from the words of my groaning?
Matthew 27 and Mark 15.
Psalms 227, all who see me mock me, they make mouths at me.
They wag their heads. Matthew 27, Mark and Luke.
Psalm 228, he trusts in the Lord, let him deliver him, let him rescue him, for he delights in him.
Matthew 27.
Psalms 228, they divided his garments among them, and from my clothing they cast lots.
All four gospels. This passage is quoting him.
Psalm 222, I will tell of your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation,
I will praise you. That's quoted in Hebrews 2.
The passage that Christians like to rely on from Psalms 22
is this bit right here. Bogs have surrounded me
and band of evil doers and comes to me. They pierced my hands and my feet.
This passage is not quoted anywhere in the gospels. All these other passages
are quoted in various places in the New Testament, but this one is not.
If they had this reading, they would have absolutely
quoted this passage as a reference to Jesus being crucified. They didn't,
because they didn't have this reading. This reading came later than them,
or at least they weren't aware of it.
Who's around?
Triumphal entry.
Who's going?
Matthew 21, also Mark 11, Luke 19.
When they had appeared in Jerusalem, they had come to God above all.
Jesus told his disciples, Go into the village opposite of you, and immediately you will find
a donkey and find a donkey tied there and a cult with her.
This took place to fulfill that was spoken through the prophet.
Here's the quote from Isaiah 9.
Behold, your king is coming to you, humble and mounted on a donkey,
even on a cult and foul of a donkey. Of course, no problem.
If this is a prophecy you want to fulfill, that's easy to write as the author, and then Jesus
rode a donkey into the city. That's the fulfillment of a prophecy, really? That's amazing.
Amazing. Nobody ever rides a donkey into the city. That doesn't happen, but there's another problem.
Here's the space. What happens after the Messiah rides into the city?
I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim and the horses from Jerusalem. I will bow
and the bow of the war will be cut off, and he will speak peace in the nations,
and his dominion will be from the sea to sea and from the river to the ends of the earth.
So hold on. This is where the Messiah is supposed to conquer the world.
The world. He ends the wars and brings peace after he rides the donkey into the city.
Jesus didn't fulfill the rest of that, did he? I don't see...
The vibe I'm getting from all of this is Christianity seems to symbolize and make poetry
of a book that's very clear. The Hebrew Scriptures seem to be very
clear to the point, and this is what will happen, and Christianity seems to just pick out parts
that they think will work and turn them into symbols and poetry. It's a little bit disrespectful,
I would say, to that Thai religion and group of people.
Yeah, okay. That's the problem with the entirety of... Anti-Semitic isn't the right word to use,
because anti-Semitism is more like ethnically focused. It's more like anti-Jewish,
because there's more like against the religion. There's more like attacking the religious beliefs
at this time, 1st, 2nd, 3rd century. There's another gospel that almost made it into the
Bible called the Gospel of Barnabas, and it's very, very anti-Jewish. It's like the Jews got it wrong.
They failed God's test, so he chose us instead. That's what New Testament is like,
is reinterpreting in these passages, and they feel like they have the liberty to do that.
There's various reasons why they do that, I think. I don't get too extract.
So yeah, Christians will say Jesus rode into Jerusalem on the donkey. Again, amazing, phenomenal.
Wow. But then, he didn't conquer the place. He didn't end the wars.
There's his gap here. Again, artificially added. Where is the whole death and resurrection after
three days and ascension and second coming? Why isn't that in here? Because that's what
Christians will say. They'll be like, the rest of this, he's going to do after he returns,
after the second coming. Okay, that's not in there. That's not in there. Or they'll say,
better yet, he actually did do all of these things after he died in the spirit realm.
Whoa. Convenient. He did all those things in the spirit realm. If you had the Holy Spirit,
you would know that. Yeah, I used to say that very thing.
Yeah, same. This is not what Christians think it is either.
But hold on. Gospels are in by witnesses. I hate to do this to you,
but I can't hold it any longer. I really gotta pee. Give me two seconds.
You good? No problem. Yeah, yeah. And entertain the chat. Hang on, chat. I'll be right back.
So, a question I was just going to ask here. Who's in the chat?
Oh, Wesley. Inhale. No money, no jobs, no comfort. Inhale.
Okay. So, Kip asked, said, no, David, this is just very common Jewish Bible exegesis.
My question is, why, like, what I don't understand is,
why is, I'll just full screen myself, see my beautiful face.
What is a Christian's response to this? What is a typical Christian's, like, response?
Like, I don't understand how, how do they get around this? Like, I just, I don't run.
Like, I didn't know any of this stuff when I was a Christian. So, maybe that's,
maybe that's the answer. But like, what is, what would like a pastor say? A,
an apologist? Like, how, how do they get around this? Like, do they just say that
what Captain Deadpool is saying is just wrong? Like, how do they have, like,
I don't know, it seems pretty open and shut to me.
Excuse me.
Am I wrong about something?
No, no, I was just saying, it just, I just don't see how, like, because what you're,
you're laying out here makes complete and perfect sense. I just don't understand how, like,
I don't know, like, what's like, I'm just, I'm just so confused. Like, what's the
count of all this? Like, what do Christian apologists say about all this stuff? Like,
this seems very like, it makes sense. So I just don't know how, like,
it's very straightforward, right? And that's the thing with, in Judaism,
say, I don't know exactly, like,
say that there is 10 prophecies that the Messiah is supposed to fulfill.
If somebody comes along and fulfills nine of them, he's not the Messiah.
They have a very high standard of who the Messiah is supposed to be. And they take no, like,
you know, liberties with that. But once you get into a more Hellenized period,
you start getting the Greek speaking Christians, because
Greek is, is a much more philosophical language than Hebrew is.
Hebrew is very poetic. It's very narrative driven. And Greek can be that way too.
But it's, it's the Greek language evolved to explain philosophical concepts that were not
really around previously. So you have these people that are students of philosophy,
Greek speaking Christians, they're exposed to, and again, we'll talk about this in a little bit,
they're supposed to all these like different Hellenized ideas,
different ideas about the logos and the soul, and the writings of Plato and the Baki and the
Iliad and the Odyssey, they have all these other influences surrounding them. So really, like,
reinterpreting the, the Old Testament is not necessarily malicious.
It can be. And I think sometimes it is, but it's not always. Sometimes it's innocent.
Like I said earlier, I think Paul genuinely believed what he believed, but he used
his education kind of aid and his explaining the way of certain things.
There's a passage that Paul quotes in the Old Testament that didn't add the slide,
where it says cursed as he was hung on a tree. Jesus was hung on a tree.
So how do you explain that away? Cursed? If Jesus is a Messiah, but he was cursed by being
hung on the tree, how, how can he be Messiah? Well, the answer is he became the curse sins were
put upon him, and he became cursed and died so that the curses could die with him. So
he's, he's leaning on these, yeah, these other Hellenized ideas that he, that he uses to reinterpret
these passages in order to justify his theology. If that even makes any fucking sense. I hope that was
No, it does. It does.
Paul's not evil. He's just, I think he genuinely experienced something
that he couldn't explain. And so now he, he genuinely believes that Jesus was a Messiah.
He had this vision. I think he really thinks he had that. And it changes life. So now he's like,
the scriptures are saying one thing, but it's completely different from what I experienced.
So I have to go and maybe use this, my, my Hellenized education to try and reconcile the two.
And isn't that exactly what Christians do today? Isn't that exactly what apologists do today?
I have to believe we're talking, how do you talk about, they have an idea that was given to them.
They didn't think of, they didn't think about Christianity themselves. They were told it.
A pastor told them about Christianity. And then they make it work. Right. They got,
yeah, you go to church and they tell you about the Bible first. You don't, you don't, nobody
reads the Bible and then goes to church. You go to church, you learn about Christianity,
you learn about the Bible, you learn about how Christianity and the church interprets the Bible.
And then you read it. And by that time you're wearing rose colored classes.
Hmm. You can't read the text for what it actually says.
You're reading it from your biases. And I think that's what Paul's doing. It's the exact same.
Paul experienced something. He genuinely believes it. So now he's, okay, tangent over. Sorry.
So this was a big one for me. And by the way, I forgot to say this earlier,
we were talking about the virgin birth. This is something that was mentioned in
Bible college about how the mistranslation actually means young woman. And it was very
briefly mentioned and it kind of just like glossed over and moved right past. And I was like,
I didn't say this out loud to the presser because this lecture, I was like, hold on, what? That's,
that's pretty serious. How are we just glossing past that? But
it's just a memory that popped up.
But nobody else seemed to care. I was like, oh, that's interesting.
To me, I was like, no, that's huge. Can we talk about that for a little bit more? What?
But this is another one of those instances. The Gospels were written by witnesses.
The Assemblies of God Church subscribes to the doctrine of some form of the doctrine of
inerrancy. I've been to different churches and different groups within the AG that have like
varying degrees of subscription to the doctrine of inerrancy. But I was, my church was very firm,
the Gospels were written by eyewitnesses. That's why they're reliable. There's probably a lot of
repeat information for you guys. But this was a very pivotal moment in my deconstruction in college.
So we got to talk a little bit about it.
How the Gospels are referred to, changed over time. 95 to 110, Papias wrote the expositions of
the sayings of the Lord. Not Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Expositions of the sayings of the Lord.
Which is lost in part to brief excerpts from Irenaeus and Eusebius. And then Justin Mardar,
in his dialogue with Typho, he calls them multiple times the memoirs of the Apostles.
Still not Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John. They're quoting passages from these Gospels,
never attributing them to Matthew or John. But then 185, Irenaeus writes a book against heresies.
This is the first time we see the Gospels named and numbered. It is not possible that the Gospels
be either more or fewer in number than they are. Because at the time, I think there's like
44 Gospels floating around. Exactly, sure. He says, for since there is, he says there's,
there has to be only four. Only four. Why? Because there's four zones in the world.
The wind blows in four different directions. The church is scattered in four places throughout
the world. And they're the pillars that hold up. That's why he chose number four. The wind
blows in four directions, north, south, east, west. So we have to have four Gospels. That's
the arbitrary standard he went with. Yeah, four pillars. You do all right over there?
Just taking it in? Yeah, yeah. No, I'm just taking it in. Okay.
Okay. So he's the one who names the Gospels first. The passage preceding this is where he
names them. It's very long. I didn't pay the post today here. But shortly after that,
Tertullians, and apologizing as Martian, he says the apostles, therefore John and Matthew, first
and still faith into us, while the Apostolic men Luke and Mark renew it afterwards. So the Gospels
are referred to arbitrarily for the first 150 years. Nobody's calling them Matthew, Mark, Luke and John.
Then Irenaeus calls them Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. Then people start referring to them as
Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. So this was the later idea. What are the historical standards
that historians use in antiquity? This is a quote from Thesedes. Yeah, don't know.
He says this is written in the second century. I think so. I have found it difficult to remember
the precise words used in the speeches, which I have listed to myself, and my various informants
have expressed the same difficulty. This is a historian. So my method has been while keeping
as closely as possible to the general sense of the words that were actually used to make the
speakers say what, in my opinion, was called for by each situation. In other words, he's making
shit up. It's educational. He's trying to fill the gaps in the best he can.
But he's saying, I can't remember precise words, and my various informants have expressed the same
difficulty. So I did my best. And Papias' exposition was saying, Lord, he's interviewing an elder.
The elder says, he used to say, Mark, in his capacity as Peter's interpreter, wrote down
accurately as many things as he could recall from memory. This is one of those sources that
apologists, and I've had debates with apologists who think that the customs are in biases,
and they bring this up inevitably. He wrote down accurately as many things as he can recall from
memory, though not in an ordered form of things which were said or done, for he neither heard the
Lord nor accompanied him. But later, as I said, Peter, who used to give his teachings in the form
of sharia, sharia, again pronouncing that wrong, basically anecdote. It had no intention of providing
an ordered argument of the Lodgy of the Lord. So basically, Papias, whose writings are preserved
by Eusebius and Irenaeus 100, 200 years after his writings, because his writings don't survive.
We only have quotes from those authors. So we have, oh, hold on, I'm getting ahead of myself.
Yeah, here's no one. And Matthew collected the oracles from Eusebius Ecclesiastal history,
and Matthew collected the oracles in the Hebrew language and interpreted them to the best of
his abilities. But Eusebius, again, who's quoting Papias, this is the quote up here,
that's preserved by Eusebius. He's skeptical. He says, and he sets forth other matters that came
to him from the unwritten tradition, including some bizarre parables of the Savior, his teachings,
and several other more legendary accounts. So Eusebius is preserving the writings of Papias.
Eusebius does not fully trust Papias. Papias is interviewing somebody who says,
I have neither heard from the Lord nor accompanied him. But he's reciting to his memory. So you
have a historian who does not trust his source, who is quoting a guy who does not trust his source,
that is not an eyewitness, who says by his own admission, I'm trying my best to recall here,
although it's not in order. That's the standard you're going to go with, really? Go to court with
that shit. But ancient sources, this is good for ancient sources. Go to court and say this guy I
knew, knew this other guy, or read the, this guy I knew read the works of another guy, who when he
was interviewing this other guy, the guy he was interviewing said, I don't remember everything
very well, but I'm going to do my best. And that's your evidentiary standard. That's what you're
going with. Why the fuck don't you believe Bigfoot is real? If that's your standard, you would believe
aliens are real, you would believe Loch Nessmoss, you would believe everything.
Yeah, including the Mormon.
Now, all this is saying. That's a huge problem. That's a huge problem, actually, because
like I mentioned this with Kip, it's like the Book of Mormon has eyewitness testimonies
at the Golden Plates, like yeah, written with affidavits hundreds of years ago, like not thousands,
you know, in English.
Yeah, and I won't go into that. Sorry to get political, but
yeah, we can get political a little bit, because this is
don't know how plugged into the political situation here in America's you are.
Um, no, I watch I watch this is this is I watch from a distance like what the
are you okay, America? What the fuck? No, we're not okay.
I've heard that about like I've heard that about other countries, especially like Australia and
Canada that they watch our politics because of how entertaining it is and how bad shit craze it is.
I will like I said this today.
Um, he was in the chat earlier, but we it's unfortunate, but we every almost every Australian
I know will use America as a pejorative when they don't like statistics. So when I say, oh,
you know, do you know that, um, uh, you know, animals on factory farms like this, they'll say,
oh, you know, that's that's probably because of America, right? They're America is like that.
Or do you know that, you know, um, there are this many, that's probably America.
Like every time there's something bad, they'll point to America and say America is skewing
the statistics. Do you know how many people die of cancer? I was probably America. Do you know
how many people die or a beast? I was probably America mass shootings mass shootings. Like
America has become a pejorative in within Australia. Like it's, um, it's kind of sad.
And I don't think a lot of Americans realize the rest of the world are like looking at a lot of
what's going on. What the fuck? Like, why would anyone live there? I'd be, I'd feel safer. And I
know this is a wrong perspective. I know that this is not based on facts, but just based on
what like I'm seeing. But like, I'd feel safer going to like some third world. Well, I do feel
safe. I do. I feel safe going with third world countries like Thailand or Philippines and I do
going to America. Like I feel, I feel safer. I know that's not necessarily the case.
I know that America probably would be safer, but it's just interesting how like that's,
that's the perspective that a lot of Australians have. Um, it's, it's weird. Yeah.
Like, holy shit. Like the fact that you got shot working in a supermarket, like we had a,
we had a shooting happen, um, in 2014 where some crazed gunman held up a, um, a cafe in
in Sydney, three people died, including him. I'm pretty sure. And we still talk about it.
Like, we're still like, Oh my God, that was horrible. Like, like back in 2014, almost 10 years
ago, we're like, Oh, like there's still, when you walk past here, that's where that, that's
where that shooting happened. Like, Oh my God, like that's horrible. Like, yeah.
You guys are so undecensitized.
But yes, there's a lot of racism, which, uh, like to the words, the original switch I hate in
Australia. Anyway, um, though, what I was going to say is, uh, I can't help but think of like,
there's all these like efforts by the Republican party to like nail our president Joe Biden on
these charges of, you know, making some foreign, uh, quid, quid, quid pro deal or something. Anyway,
and so you got like these Congress, this Congress will win like Marjorie Taylor Green,
Lauren Bovernor, and they're like, there's a, a guy, very similar to what I'm talking about with
Papias. They're like, there's a guy who said, we don't, we don't know who this guy is or where he's
at. We don't know. But he says he has information on, uh, these like, this corrupt business dealings.
And that's proof that he needs to be arrested. Like, like really? This guy, you're telling us
there's this guy. It's like fucking my fellow Americans in the chat. It's like fucking Hunter
Biden's laptop. Hunter Biden's laptop has naked pictures of him on. Okay. All right. That's evidence
he's selling nuclear secrets to Ukraine. I don't fucking, it's just fucking bananas, man. We're not
okay. We're not okay. Anyway, we should do a politics stream because I got some funny like,
um, Australian politics, politicians, I can show you that will just make you laugh.
Like I said, that's how I started my TikTok channel is being like,
pull it over and joke. So that's, that's where like my roots are. Yeah, not.
So how did historians write in the ancient world? This is a random excerpt from the Jewish war by
Favius Terceus. My mouse is sensitive.
Okay. Now this, uh, Titus Caesar persuaded me frequently to take whatever I would. I thought
nothing else would be of any value. So I would take, I made this request to Titus Caesar. I had
also the holy books, but I asked him for the life of my brothers. I went with one temple. I got all
these things and I remembered I delivered them. I sent to Titus Caesar. Uh, as I came back, I saw
many captives crucified. I was very sad of this in my mind. I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I. You don't see
anything like this in the gospels. There are no personal pronouns in the gospels. No one's saying,
I saw Jesus do this. I, it's all written in the third person. What the fuck do you mean it's written
by eyewitnesses? Josephus, a historian is writing his own firsthand account saying I did, now you
can question the legitimacy of what he's saying, which he does, he does exaggerate a lot even with
his own eyewitness accounts. It's pretty clear he's exaggerating a lot of times. So already it's
like, you gotta kind of like be a little iffy. Yeah. And the gospel writers are reading, writing in
a different time, in a different language. Like we're going to go over it with, with, uh, with, uh,
Dennis R. McDonald, Dennis R. McDonald's thesis essentially is that they're using Greek tropes,
um, for to write the gospels are using Greek tropes in their, um, their retelling of the
gospels. Um, so that's going to be interesting. Are you talking about this book right here?
Oh, baby. Yeah, that's, that's the one. That's the one. Oh, it's so, so good. Yeah. Can't wait.
So anything. You know, it's funny because, um, you know, he's, uh, he's not a young buck anymore,
but, um, and so, you know, I'm like, you know, and I was talking to Derek, Derek will be in touch
and I'm like, you know, you know, maybe he, he can't do the, he can't do 90 minutes, which is what
we normally do. Maybe you can do an hour. That's cool. Like probably want to have like a coffee
or a tea or something. No, he's like, we're both Scots. Let's drink LaFrogue. I'm like, my God,
LaFrogue is like a Scotchy drink when you want to taste a cigar smoking walrus. It is so like
violent. Like it's, uh, I love it. I've really grown to love it, but it's like, it really puts
up a fire. You know, it's, it's giving you the one too. When you're, when you're drinking it.
So it's going to be a great strain. Anyway, that's exciting. I want to get him on the show. Maybe
when I start doing interview, speaking of which, holy shit, I didn't realize we've been live for
two hours and 12. Yeah. Jesus. All right. We don't got a whole lot longer to go.
Uh, so you don't see anything like this in the gospels with the little exception of the we
passages and acts. If those don't know, uh, the author of Luke is also the author of acts.
And suddenly he claims to be a companion of Paul. So suddenly starting in X 16,
you start saying we, right? We immediately sought to leave Macedonia.
Now these had gone ahead and we were waiting for us a terrorist. So you say, we, we, we, we, we,
right? So, okay, what, what do we do with that? He's the author's claiming to be in a, a companion
of Paul prior to that beginning of Luke. He says he's, he's compiled all this information
from various eyewitnesses, whatever. So let's compare. I've written by the same person. Is that
Ryan? Yes. Okay. It's almost pretty, pretty unanimous and scholarship that they're written by the same
author. Funny thing is that the beginning of acts, he's, he's talked about the the theophilus.
I'm writing to you, dear theophilus. We have no idea who theophilus is. There's no records of who he is.
Uh, my favorite theory is that theophilus is like Paul's lawyer who's trying to,
this kind of a fringe theory. I don't really believe this one.
It's Paul's lawyer and he's trying to write like, this is where he was at this time.
He's like, I'm an alibi. He didn't do these things. Anyway. Um, so,
if the author of acts was a companion of Paul, at least at the end, let's compare the writings
of acts, uh, to Paul's own letters, because there's some, there's some differences.
Acts 17, then immediately the brothers sent Paul out to, as far as they could go to the sea and
Silas and Timothy remained there. Now those who escorted Paul brought him as far as Athens
and received a command from Silas and Timothy to come to him as soon as possible. This is acts,
again, the author of acts, claiming after, uh, he allegedly, she's gonna go back.
Acts 16 is when he supposedly joins Paul. Acts 17, he says that I am, then immediately the brothers
sent Paul out and Silas and Timothy remained. But in Paul's own letters written by his own hand,
we thought it best to be left by ourselves in Athens and we sent Timothy.
The exact opposite, the exact opposite thing happened in Paul's own account.
Isn't Thessalonians one of the Bible, the, the, the, um, the epistles that has
disputed? No. Second Thessalonians, yes. Oh, second Thessalonians. First Thessalonians,
not so much. Okay. This, as far as I remember correctly. Yeah. Galatians one, Paul's own account.
This is after his conversion. I did not immediately consult with flesh and blood,
nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me. Then three years later,
I went up to Jerusalem to become acquainted with Caphus, Peter acts, recording the same event
now for several days. He was with the disciples, right? This is immediately after his conversion
experience. He was with the disciples right after he converted. And they were in Damascus
again, in chapter three. Yeah. When he came to Jerusalem, he was trying to associate with
the disciples, but they were afraid of them. So Galatians, he says, I did not immediately
consult with flesh and blood, nor did I go to Jerusalem to talk to the apostles. And the
reason he said this is because he wanted to add legitimacy to his claims. He says, you know,
in early Galatians, I received this revelation from the Lord. And this, you can tell him telling
the truth, because I was nowhere near the apostles for, for a while, right? I just got this
organically, you know, I was meditating, I was zenned out, you know, and then the Lord appeared
to me and started telling me, but in Acts, he's like several days, he was with the disciples
immediately. Completely different story. Same account, different story. So now, of course,
there's all these ways you can kind of explain these differences away, tie yourself in liturgical
knots, or linguistical knots, whatever. The point is, in the plainest reading possible,
those are two very different accounts of the same event. And Paul's conversion is talked about
three times in the book of Acts, and they're all different. First in Acts nine, I got these
highlighted. So the blue is Paul. The yellow is Jesus. The green is someone named Ananias.
Who the fuck is Ananias? I don't know. Nobody knows. But he's a prominent figure in Paul's conversion
at first. Ananias tells or Jesus blind Saul. Oh, no, who are you, Lord? That's all he gets to see.
And then Jesus blinds him. And then Jesus tells Ananias, hey, I kind of fucked up a little bit.
I blinded already Paul. Here's what I need you to do.
I can't even read it. Shit. It's fuzzy. So anyway, Ananias is the prominent figure in the first
account of Paul's resurrection. This is the account where Ananias goes to Paul, finds him,
and prays over him, as Jesus told him to do. And it's something like scales fall from his eyes.
He's knocked off his horse. He sees a blinding light. He goes blind. There are people with him.
They don't hear anything, but they see something and they're scared and they run away.
It's a whole thing. It's a whole thing. It's like an account in Acts 22, after that, allegedly,
the author joins Paul. Talks about it again. Paul has more to say this time. And Ananias has less
to say. A little bit different. And then you get to Acts 26. And this is Paul giving his own account
of his conversion to the king. So it bears a little bit more weight than the other accounts.
Ananias is gone. He's not even there. There's no falling off of the horse. There's no scales.
All this extra hyperbolic language is gone all of a sudden in this passage.
So how do we compare it to Paul's own accounts of his own resurrection? His own conversion.
First Corinthians 15. Now, I make no new brother the gospel which I preached to you,
which also you received, in which you also stand. Last of all, he appeared to me,
for I am the least of the apostles, and not fit to be called an apostle because I persecuted the
church. Okay. Galatians 11. For I would have, I would have you know, brethren, that the gospel
which was preached to me is not according to man. For I neither received it from man, nor was I taught
it, but I received it through the revelation of Jesus Christ. And for you have heard from my former
manner of life in Judaism, I used to persecute the church of God beyond all measure. I tried to
destroy it. This is Paul's own account. What he's most concerned about, what he wants his audience
to know, is that he persecuted the church. There's no Ananias. There's no falling off of a horse.
There's no going blind for several days. There's no scales falling from his eyes. There's no,
none of that. All Paul is worth nothing supernatural other than he had or he had a revelation of Jesus.
He had a revelation of Jesus. He persecuted the church. That's all he's worried about.
All this other shit is legendary,
which is pretty on par for the book of Acts, the facts. Paul performs all kinds of miracles.
A sorcerer struck with blindness, which gets the pro canoes. What are that word is
signs and wonders are done through Paul and Barnabas. Paul hears a cripple. Paul casts
out spirits of deviation. Paul and Silas, the prison are imprisoned and the doors open up.
Miraculously, God works unusual miracles through the hands of Paul. Paul resurrects
Uticaeus. Paul heals the father of Publius. Paul is performing all kinds of miracles.
Paul even resurrects some of the guys. He's casting out demons. He is healing people. He's
bringing people back from the dead. He's all alone. The other apostles, Peter, Peter and John, Stephen,
Philip, Barnabas. All these people are performing all these miracles. Paul does not mention any
miracles in his own letters that he performed. None of this. Nothing even like this is mentioned
in his own firsthand accounts and his own letters to an audience. He's writing to a church full of
people. His letters are going to be read out loud to the congregation.
If he was making up some bullshit, people are going to call him out on it.
Oh, Paul didn't talk about, apologists will say, Paul didn't talk about the things that he's modest.
He's humble. He doesn't want to brag. Bullshit. Paul loves to talk about himself. Look at this.
First Corinthians, I thank God. I speak in tongues more than any of you.
I am the tongue speaking fucking champ. What do you mean, Paul doesn't like to
talk about himself? Right? Second Corinthians, I have to boast even though it doesn't do any good,
but I will now talk about visions and revelations given to me by the Lord. I don't want to brag,
you guys. But Jesus appears to me in revelations quite a lot.
Humble bragging. Pretending I don't want to brag. Again, First Corinthians going back in Chapter 11.
Are they servants of Christ? I am more. I'm more of a servant of Christ. I have worked much harder.
I have been in prison more frequently. I have been flogged more severely. I have been exposed to
death again and again. Paul is bragging about himself. I am more dedicated to this than you all
are. Y'all don't know shit. All right. Philippians, Chapter three. If anyone else has a mind to
put confidence in the flesh, I far more circumcised on the eighth day of the nation of Israel, of the
nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, as to the law, a Pharisee,
as to zeal, a persecutor of the church, as to the righteousness, which is in the law found
blameless. I'm the shit. So when Christians were gorgeous, Paul doesn't want to talk about himself.
That's why he doesn't mention any of the miracles in his letters. Call them out on that bullshit.
Look at this. He's there like Andrew fucking Tate right now. Paul Tate on the top G on the top P.
That's how he sounds. But it's like when Moses says like he's supposed to be the one writing
like the first five books of the Old Testament, and it's like, and Moses was the most humble man
in all the lands. Yeah. It's like, I remember John Bavir is like, that means that you can,
you know, you can't that that was still a humble statement. Holy shit. I remember that.
That was a huge year. Oh, same thing. Fuck that guy.
Oh, dude, do you remember like his story like like his he and his wife, like when they first got
together, he was like, she was like the loosest girl on college campus. And we started somebody
said he said like she was like in like notoriously like promiscuous on the college campus or a
matter. And they started dating. And she would she like refused to submit to him. She would
like throw plates and things at him. And yeah, he he led us to the Lord on the first date or
whatever. Yeah. Yeah. And then when she decided to submit herself to him, the Lord bless their
union, you guys. Yeah. Yeah. Fucking it's shit. You don't even hear it when you're a Christian,
right? Yeah, I remember, you know, we have Christian friends still and, you know, you see them post
stuff like online that will say stuff like, you know, I'm so, you know, someone posts a picture
of their husband and say, I'm so glad I've got us blessed this man to lead our family or to be
the leader of it. And it's like, I would have been like, oh, that's nice. But I'm like, like I
I showed Amy and she's like, that's, that's gross. Like, I don't know. It's
is. Yeah. I don't know what an egg is. But if I had an egg, that would be an egg. Yeah.
Totally. All right. I'm glad I'm not alone. All right. So what about the Gospels?
So the Gospels right recording, this is probably familiar chart.
Matthew, Mark and Luke share a lot of the same information. What's fascinating to me,
and what I learned at Bible College that I have not been able to stop thinking about to this day
is how unique John, our latest gospel is. Yeah, it's insane. And the synoptic Gospels,
Jesus doesn't talk about himself a whole lot. He's all about the coming kingdom of God.
He's all about preparing people for the end of this. In John, he is all about himself. He talks
about himself so much. He's starting to sound like Paul. Right. Yeah. And he knows exactly who he is.
I think Bartelman always points out, in John, he knows who he is, but it's like in the Matthew,
Mark, Luke, and Mark doesn't know who he is. He doesn't know that he's the Son of God or whatever.
But in John, it's clear, I'm the Son of God. Yeah. See, that's what we're about to get into.
Just look at the final words of Jesus on the cross in each gospel.
Matthew, Mark, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Jesus is terrified. He's confused.
Why is it why is this happening to me? I've done nothing in a lot of ways. This is on par with
the prophetic imagery in the Old Testament and like Ezekiel and Isaiah and Daniel.
I've served you my whole life. Why is this happening to me?
Why have you forsaken me? That's the only emotion he can feel is forsaken by the
God that he's spent his entire life serving. Right. It's interesting. You get to Luke.
It's a little bit more matter of fact into your hands. I commend my spirit.
This had to be done. And then you get to John. It is finished. Suddenly Jesus is a superhero.
I had to do this. This was my mission. This was my purpose. I did this for you.
Matthew, he doesn't have that tone in the synoptics. What's going on here?
Jesus traveled for Pilate. This is one of my favorite differences. There's several
examples of the differences between the Gospels. But Jesus traveled for Pilate. It's probably my
favorite. In Mark, again, our earliest gospel, Jesus doesn't say anything other than in response
to Paul saying, are you the king of the Jews? Jesus says, yeah, sure. It's all he says.
Matthew, he doesn't say anything. Luke, again, he says, yeah, I'm the king of the Jews.
Now, watch this. John, bam. Suddenly, Jesus is a chatty Cathy.
I probably should have said this earlier. The yellow is Jesus. The blue is here.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I got that. Now, you get the idea. Look at him.
Are you saying this through your own initiative? Or did you tell or did others tell you about me?
My kingdom is not of this world. Yeah, if my kingdom were of this world, then my servants would
be fighting so that you would not be handed over to the Jews. But you said correctly that I am the
king for this is I have been born. You wouldn't you have no authority over me. I'm not look at this
shit. It's like, I know. Oh, God. It's like, it's like that. There's an old, there's an old,
like, you know, someone say, oh, if, if, if, if everything that Jesus did, it wouldn't feel every
book in the world. That's the old thing I've heard as well. Yeah. Yeah.
Hang on a sec. I just want to quickly bring something up. There's a short video I produced on
my other channel here. Where is it? Oh, gosh, come on. I need to find it.
It's, yeah, other gospels reliable. I did did a whole thing on this. And so,
so this took me like three months to make, but can you see that fine? Yep. Cool. So check this out.
So what I do is I go through, I go through the gospel. So I just talk about the resurrection
of Jesus. So I like put out like, this is what the gospel of Marx is, which is the earliest gospel,
and then orange equals, now, green is very similar. Orange equals red is contradiction.
And so that's Matthew. That's Luke. And then when you get to John,
it's just all, like, none of it is like, it just, it's just so different to, to it.
Oh, I love doing shit like that. Yeah.
Yeah, it took a long time, but no one cares. It's like, do you know, like you put in so much
work into one video and you're like, this is going to blow up and then no one cares.
And then you put in like no work into something else and you're like,
it's like the cruelest like law of the internet is like the most effortless
content is going to get the most attention. I've experienced that both on like TikTok and Twitter,
like the most like zero effort bullshit I make gets like millions of views.
But like a video that I like spend hours prepping for gets like maybe a few thousand.
We don't, we don't do it for the views.
I do. No, I'm just kidding. I do it for the sexual drugs.
I do it because I love scoffing. That's my favorite sin. I've decided scoffing.
So the last days will be many, many scoffers than I love being a scoffer.
So speaking of the last days,
your timing is impeccable. So
continuing with our theme of the differences between John and the rest of the New Testament,
not just or not just the rest of the Gospels, the rest of the New Testament,
the end is near. This is the most consistent theme throughout the entire New Testament.
And every almost every book, at least once, usually more than once, you're going to find
some version of the end is near the beginning of Mark, again, our earliest gospel, the time
was fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand, repent and believe in the gospel, the end of Mark
13. Truly, I said to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things have taken
place. We talked about this earlier. Matthew, truly, I said to you, there are some of you
staying here that will not taste death until they say the Son of Man coming out of the kingdom.
Same thing. Luke, truly, I said to you, this generation will not pass. Same shit.
But those are all later accounts. The earlier accounts are found in the writings of Paul,
Paul 13, Jesus, Romans 13. The night is nearly over. The day has drawn near.
1 Corinthians 7. But this I say, brethren, the time has been shortened. First Thessalonians.
We who are left alive will remain until the coming of the Lord. Hebrews 1,
not written by Paul, somebody else, but still, same energy. In these last days, Hebrews 10,
you see the day drawing near. James 8, 5. The coming of the Lord is near. First Peter,
the end of all things is near. First John, children, it is the last hour. Revelation,
the beginning of Revelation. 1 chapter 1 verse 3. Right out of the gate in the book of Revelation.
The time is near. The end of Revelation. 22 verse 20. Yes, I am coming quickly.
Again, the most consistent theme throughout the New Testament. Every book in the New Testament
is apocalyptic literature. Jesus was an apocalyptic preacher. So was Paul.
That's why Paul told people, don't get married. There's no point in getting married. The end
is coming soon. That's why Jesus told everybody to sell your belongings, render under seas or
where to seize. Pay your taxes even. None of that matters. He told the rich man,
now Lazarus, give all your possessions to the poor because the end is coming soon. None of this
matters. But with the one exception of John, no one can come to me unless the Father has sent me,
draws him. I will raise him on the last day. Again, the Gospel of John breaking from the rest of the
New Testament. Again, the most consistent theme throughout the New Testament. John comes up
with some new shit that breaks from the path. Now Jesus is like, I'll raise you up on the last day.
Not it's coming near, not we're in the last day, not it's happening soon,
not you guys are going to be alive to see when this bullshit happens. None of that.
He's saying, yeah, I will raise you up on the last day. Again, and it's not the Gospels or
earliest Gospels and even the Gospels or the Rites of Paul. Jesus never talks about himself
or very rarely talks about himself. And John, he is the one in power.
Or Christology has evolved. Because again, John, our latest Gospel, the author, John,
seems to realize, hey, maybe we've gotten this whole end time prophecy thing wrong.
Maybe the end times are happening now. And we just don't understand it. Or maybe it's going to be
happening at a much later date. Probably not a much later date. The other John seems to think
that the end times are happening at that time, but on a more spiritual level than they don't
understand. So he uses much more ambiguous language than the other letters in New Testament.
All right, so we just got on talking about Jesus' Vodged Myelin. Let's go back and take a look at
those because that's, again, one of my favorite things to think about. But at this time, instead
of thinking about Jesus in these passages, start thinking about Pilate. All right, Mark.
Are you the king of the Jews? Do you not answer? Do you see not the changes that are brought
against you? Do you want me to release you to the king of the Jews? He's speaking to the Jews.
Matthew, same thing. But this time, while I was sitting there, his wife,
he was thinking about what to do with Jesus. And his wife says, I had a bad dream about him.
You need to kill him for me. Suddenly his wife, and this is very similar to the account
about Pilate and John the Baptist, where for his wife's birthday, he's like,
what do you want for your birthday? She's like the head of John the Baptist.
And so he's like, all right. And so he has John the Baptist executed and his head is brought to her.
So I think this is probably a tradition that the author of Matthew is familiar with.
So he inserts this into an narrative that was not in Mark Luke. Much more going on here.
In Luke's account, Pilate sends Jesus to Herod. He's like, I think he's innocent.
He sends him to Herod. Herod, do you think he's innocent? Oh, you do? Cool. All right,
send him back here. And then this is the account where he dresses him in like the purple robe,
and he cleanses, he washes his hands, like you see in the Passion of Christ.
And he declares to the Jews, this man's, I'm clean of this man's blood. I am not at fault here.
All right. Hold on, goes over this.
And John is right here. The Jews said, we have a law. And by the law, he ought to die,
because he made himself out to be the Son of God. Therefore, when Pilate heard the statement,
he was even more afraid. Pilate was afraid of the Jews.
So he had no choice but to hand Jesus over to be crucified. Pilate had Jesus
flogged and everything, trying to appease like the Jews. He did everything he could. Even in Luke,
I miss this part. Where was it? He said to them a third time down here, what evil has this man done?
A third time. Pilate's like, why do you want me to crucify this guy? But are you sure,
you guys? Are you really sure? But okay. Who is Pilate really?
Relief's account comes from Philo's work, Embassy of the Guys. He says, Pilate was a man of inflexible,
stubborn, and cruel disposition. He mentions his venality, his violence, his thefts, his assaults,
his abusive behavior, his frequent executions of untried prisoners, and his endless savage
ferocity. So as he was a spiteful and angry person.
Story of the Antiquity of Jews from Josephus. This is in the scene, he's a, the Jews are
protesting like Pilate. I can't remember exactly which story it is. There's like two different
stories in Josephus. He like goes at night and like, he creates like a water aqueduct and like
steals a bunch of shit from them. And he uses that, what he stole from them to like make statues
or something and like erects them. And so the Jews like protest. Feel free to correct me in the
comments. I think I got a couple of things mixed up. But anyway, it doesn't matter.
The common response of apologists to this scene is that Pilate was afraid of a riot.
He was afraid the Jews were gonna revolt. They were gonna tear shit up. He was afraid of them.
Here's the thing, in this story, whoops, that exact scenario happens. And how does just,
how does Pilate respond? He orders his soldiers to dress up like the Jews and carry clubs with
them under their robes. I'm gonna go out there among the crowd. Hide your clubs, dress as Jews.
I'm gonna tell them to go home. If they say no, I'm gonna give you the signal.
When I give you the signal, you kill as many of them as you can. That's what's happening here.
They carry clothes under the robes. He told them to go home. They said no.
So Pilate gave the signal and his soldiers, again dressed as Jews, pulled out the clubs
that they had hidden in the robes and bashed everybody over the head, killed a lot. So you're
gonna tell me that, first of all, I need to read Josephus. That sounds like an epic history.
So you're gonna tell me that Josephus, Pilate, who three times, are you sure he want me to
punish this guy? He hasn't done any, he doesn't seem to have done any evil. Are you sure? I don't
want you guys to riot. I'll give you whatever you want. Fuck no, that's not who Pilate was.
Pilate was the only Roman governor to be impeached because of his cruelty.
Pilate didn't give a fuck about Jewish law and customs. He hated the Jews. He didn't care.
He was nuts. The Pilate that is portrayed in the gospels is not the Pilate of history.
Too very meek and mild. Are you sure? Fuck him. Kill him all.
His blood's off my hands. I don't want to look guilty. You guys, I'm just gonna say whatever.
Fuck and kill him all with boulders. That's who Pilate was.
And that's only just one problem with this whole thing. This whole narrative is about
Pilate negotiating with the Jews. Who do you want me to release? There's a custom that says,
custom each year to release one prisoner. So he's like, there's Barb Barabbas who's a,
he's an insurrectionist. Do you want me to excuse him and crucify Jesus or in the Jews?
You're like, yeah, free Barbas. That's not a thing. That was not a thing. This was not
a ritual that happened in the Asian world. There was no tradition. The governor of Rome
had not released an insurrectionist to be free as part of the yearly tradition. It was not a thing.
Another issue is the trial. Trials were not public. They were held in a very small private room
and they took like minutes at a time. So again, if the Gospels were written by
eyewitnesses, they would not have seen this. Well, you see again, like the Passion of Christ
or whatever, the crowds are around. They're all yelling. That's not how it worked.
They went into like the governor's chambers. The governor didn't do this in private. He was like,
hey, what did he do? He pissed on a rock that I liked? Yeah, give him and kill him.
Yeah. This is very much different story than the narrative that you get in a church.
When you compare the Gospels to actual historical accounts, again, the Gospels
are not written by historians. When you compare into historical accounts,
shit doesn't add up. It doesn't make a lot of sense.
Another great example is like Jesus cleansing the temple. He chases out the money changers.
That probably didn't happen. There were there in Roman officials that would have arrested him on
the spot. The temple was huge, several acres large. He wouldn't have been able to chase everybody out
with a stick. And the money changers were allowed to be there. They weren't breaking the laws.
Anyway, there's a lot of things that Gospels just don't make sense. But anyway,
none of that matters because the tomb was empty.
Big, sweet sip of... Let's talk about that. Yeah, let's do it.
Historical sources tell us about what actually happened to bodies in the crucifixion victims.
Crucifixion was very, very common in ancient Rome.
Jesus was not the only one. Everyone's like, oh, he endured the most painful death. No, he didn't.
The Romans, this is what people realize. Again, you read about this in just use.
They experimented with different ways to make crucifixion more painful.
They even started like, instead of nailing people to the cross, they just tied them to the cross,
which may sound like, oh, that's not so bad. No, that means it took even longer for them to die.
Yeah, that's horrible. There's even an account of they put a small board under their butt
so they could kind of sit on it a little bit. And that would prolong their death even longer.
They were constantly experimenting with how to make the crucifixion
more and more painful. And yeah. So now, if Jesus was flogged, that would have made his death even
quicker. And by the way, Jesus died after like a few hours, weak sauce, fucking pussy, right?
People stayed alive for days on the cross. That was a point. That was a point of crucifixion
to suffer as long as possible so that as many people could see you suffering for as long as
possible. It was not a quick death. They didn't. They wanted you to fucking suffer. And that's
so yeah, isn't it also wasn't the point to of crucifixion is that you wouldn't have a proper
burial? Like that's like, I think Barton said he looked up every source you could find on
crucifixion. And every one of them said it was about the it was like part of the punishment
was not having a proper burial. It was being left up there on the cross. Yeah, again, we're
going to get into that. But first, I got to pee again. Sorry to do this to you.
I'm like, I'm learning a lot.
Yeah, exactly. The suffering was a public display. Don't piss off pilot. It was a warning.
I never really understood why Jesus had such a
attention at the temple. There's a couple of great comments I started from before.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, sinned against you. If a person can sin against a person,
isn't it isn't a crime against God? So what the fuck is it? Yeah, true. Daddy blessed me. Amazing
name. Love it. So can we say that Jesus was a was a failed apocalyptic prophet or not?
I don't think he was a prophet. I just think he was an apocalyptic Jewish teacher, I guess.
Asian Jewish genealogies were never meant to convey actual descent. They were
pregram, pregrammatic tools for ideology. And did I mean, that's great. That's awesome. Sorry.
I just kind of like read it and didn't give the commentary. But yeah, that's awesome.
And did they have an economic inflation between Zachariah and Jesus' Day was 30
shekels worth the same? That's a great point. Maybe it's like, you know, that was an interesting
point. Sorry again. Cool. That's okay. Let's, let's, let's get into this.
So yeah, like you were saying, these are a lot of sources that we find about what happened to
crucified victims. Of course, the Roman author records of a slave owner decided not to crucify
his slave. You shall not therefore feed the carrion crows on the cross, right? Because like
you said, part of the punishment was that you were not going to receive a decent burial.
And the ancient world that was what they didn't really believe in.
And they believe that the state that you spent the afterlife in was very much dependent on how
you were buried, right? If you were buried with honors, that was huge. That would mean you were
going to have a good afterlife. If, if you were denied a decent burial, you're gonna have a shitty
afterlife. You know, a juvenile, a Romanist juvenile, not the rapper juvenile, a Roman satyrist,
the vulture hurries from the dead cattle and dogs and corpses to bring some of the carrion
to a offspring. Artemid, Artemid Dorius, an interpreter, this was a, this guy was like a
famous dream interpreter, like a gypsy that you see on the side of the road.
He's interpreting a dream and he says a crucified man is raised high and his substance is sufficient
to keep many burgers, to feed them. In other words, like this guy's fat and
birds are going to be able to feast on him for a while. There's a description on a murderer's tomb
in the second century, I think it was. He's hung alive for the wild beasts and birds to pray.
Greek historian the first century BC, Diodorus, it was the general law that temple robbers
should be cast forth without burial. If you're robbing the temple, you're not going to get
buried. You're not going to get decent burial. Another Greek author indicates that Athens,
anyone who suffered at the hands of the state for a crime, was denied burial. So that in the future,
there may be no trace of a wicked man, right? So he's executed publicly. He's not given decent
burial in a way that everybody can see it. So that in the future, there may be no trace of a wicked
man to deter likewise aspiring criminals. Tacitus, I wrote the man who committed suicide to avoid
being executed, forfeited his entire or his estate, and was debarred from burial. So he committed
suicide. So that's a disgraceful way to die. So he didn't get he was not granted a decent
afterlife by being granted a decent burial. Josephus, again, now it happened at this fight
that a certain Jew was taken alive, who by Titus's order, was crucified before the wall
to see whether the rest of them would be frightened and abate of their
obstinacy. So he was crucified on the wall, so that everybody could see him, so that they would
yeah, not do whatever he did. Again, Josephus, book one, chapter five, dodgenies, crucifies
800. Book two, chapter five, various, crucifies 2000. Chapter 12, quadratus, crucifies all who
remain alive and acumis, come anus, come anus. Chapter 12, a multitude are crucified. Again,
like I said, there's another passage I didn't put on here, but like they ran out of wood,
they crucified so many people. They're crucifying everybody. No accounts of anyone being taken down
or buried. Chapter four, verse five, they proceeded to the degree of enmity as to cast
away their dead bodies without burial. Here's one exception. Although the Jews used to take
so much care of the burial of men that they took down those who were condemned and crucified
and buried them before they're going down in the sun. Okay, so maybe there's a point on the other side.
Maybe Jesus was taken down just like this account, except there's all these other accounts before
this that we don't have any accounts of being taken out and given to David and Mary, but hold on, there's more.
Book seven, again, Josephus, I saw many captives crucified and I remembered
three of them of my former acquaintances. I was very sorry at this in my mind and went back
with tears in my eyes to tie a Caesar and told him of them. So he immediately commanded them
to be taken down. Josephus saw friends of his who were being crucified and he went to Caesar
and asked him to give permission to have them taken down. They needed permission. Even Josephus,
a Jewish historian, but even Paul in 1st Corinthians 15 says that Jesus was buried.
So what's going on here? But he was buried, was he not?
If you look at all four accounts, it says that Jesus was buried by Joseph of Arimathea,
Mark 15, Joseph of Arimathea. A prominent member of the council went to Pilate and asked
Pilate for the body of Jesus, just like the account of Josephus. Josephus went to tie a Caesar. It's like,
can you bring these guys down? He said, yeah, okay, it's fine. They died anyway, or in Josephus
got like two of them died and one of them survived. Anyway, same thing, Matthew. Same thing, Luke.
A little bit different in John. John's weird because there's a guy named Nicodemus that suddenly
appears. Yeah, Nicodemus isn't any of us. So right thing is happening.
Notice that it's like Josephus asking Tye Caesar.
Josephus was a historian, right? In Mark's account,
Joseph of Arimathea was a prominent member of the council, right? Matthew,
Josephus was a rich man. Luke, he was a member of the council again. And John
doesn't say much about him. But in the synoptic gospels, they go out of the way to say this guy was a
man of prominent stature. Kind of like Josephus. He had the authority to ask Pilate for the body.
You could just be a random guy, even a family member. You could just go and ask for the body.
You had to be someone of some importance in the ancient world. So Matthew, Mark, and Luke
go out of the way to say, yeah, he was a prominent member of the council. He was rich man. Yeah,
John doesn't wait with that for some reason. Sorry, distracted. So where do these stories come from?
I think because we'll talk about this a little bit more in a minute. Paul doesn't talk about
Joseph of Arimathea. He doesn't talk about a burial in a tomb.
Doesn't talk about any of that. So where's the story coming from? I think it comes from Genesis 50.
Joseph spoke to the house of Pharaoh saying, if I have found favor in your side, please speak to
Pharaoh saying my father made me swear saying, behold, I am about to die in my grave, which I dug
for myself in the lane of Canaan. There you shall bury me. Now there, please let me go up and bury
my father and I will turn Pharaoh said, go up and bury your father. So again, all four counts.
Joseph didn't even change the name. Joseph of Arimathea. Arimathea is not a real place,
by the way. It's kind of like a title. It means like where Jews live. It's kind of what it means.
Joseph went to Pilate, asked him for the body so they could bury him in a tomb they dug
out for himself. And Pilate said, okay, that's exactly what happens in Genesis. So I think the
authors are looking back at the Old Testament for inspiration. Just my theory. I don't actually
think Jesus was buried at all. So what about the resurrection? We're getting pretty close to the
end. You hanging in there? Yeah. Yeah. It's a lot to my brain is fried with information.
This is like blown me away. This is how my brain works. It just jumps from one thing to the other.
No, it's good. It's so much stuff. It's good. I don't know if I'd
organize the best, but no, no, it's good. It works really well. Good.
All right. So what about the resurrection? All that shit we talked about, prophecies,
not really fulfilled prophecies, misquoting the Old Testament. None of that really matters
if Jesus resurrected. So what do we make of the resurrection? For one, a guy resurrecting
does not mean that he's God in the flesh. It's just just not what that means.
But what's our earliest account of the resurrection? First Corinthians 15.
There's some arguments about Philippians chapter two. I'm not going to get into that.
Philippians chapter two is some scholars think it's a pre Pauline creed.
Bart Urban holds that view. James Tabor thinks it's perfectly a Pauline account.
So I'm going to get into that right now. All right. First Corinthians 15 through five.
Paul's talking about his belief about the resurrected body. But someone will say,
how are the dead raised? And with what kind of body do they come?
You fool. That which you saw does not come to life unless it dies. So also is the resurrection
of the dead. It is so an imperishable body, it is raised an imperishable body. It is sown in
dishonor, it is raised in glory, it is sown in weakness, raised in power. It is sown in natural
body, it is raised a spiritual body. Now I say that it's brethren that flesh and blood cannot
inherit the kingdom of God. So it's worth mentioning that raised in Greek is agarum.
And it doesn't mean resurrection like we think. The same word is used to describe sun rising,
waves rising during a storm, one nation rising up against another, or someone waking up from
their sleep. It doesn't mean someone came back to life like a zombie, like we think.
So it's much more ambiguous. So you have to kind of take that account when you're trying to
figure out what's actually going on here. So Paul is saying it sown in natural body and raised
a spiritual body. And he uses an analogy of like a seed being planted and sown.
He's not saying that it's a spiritual body in the sense of it's a ghost. That's what he means.
He's saying that it's a different kind of flesh. There's another passage he says,
there's different kinds of flesh. It's a different kind of flesh, but it's not the old body
brought back to life. Like the new body comes from the old body and is still over-fleshed,
but the old body still stays. So it doesn't really matter what happened to Jesus' body.
So Paul doesn't really talk about it. First thing is too, but we speak God's wisdom in
a mystery. We've talked about this a little bit earlier. We speak God's wisdom in mystery,
a hidden wisdom which God predestined before the ages of glory, the wisdom which none of the rules
of the age have understood. For if they had understood, they would not have crucified the
Lord of Glory. So Paul is claiming he has this secret knowledge that if the Roman officials
who crucified Jesus had known, they would never have crucified him. This is implying that Jesus
did not have to be crucified. Isn't that interesting? They did not have to crucify him. If they
understood, they would not have crucified him. So why is he saying this? I think the crucifixion
doesn't matter all that much. What matters to Paul is that Jesus died because it's in death
that you received your new body. So what Jesus talks all about is death and burial. Again,
1 Corinthians 15. I received what you also received, that Jesus died and was raised on the
first day. Otherwise crucifixion, he died. That was a point. When you die, you receive your new
body. We tend to think about... I'm not going to go too much into it because we've been on here so
long already. The idea of the resurrection of the dead was very different in the ancient world
than it is to us today. Very different. Okay, so back to 1 Corinthians 7. The hidden wisdom of God
which predestined before the age of glory was none of the rulers the age of understood. If they had,
they would not have crucified. It sounds very similar to passage in Mark. As soon as he was
alone, his followers along with the twelve began asking him about the parables and he was saying to
them, do you has been given the mystery of the kingdom of God? Jesus to his disciples, to you
I have given the mysteries of the kingdom of God. But those who are outside only get parables
so that while seeing they may see and not perceive and while hearing they may hear
and not understand. Buckle up for this one because otherwise they might return and be forgiven.
If Jesus is saying in Mark, if I made the mysteries of the kingdom of God known to everybody,
they would all be saved. So I speak to them in parables so that some of them will really
understand. That's exactly what's being said in this passage. Is that weird? Yeah, it's kind of
like you kind of see whether Gnostic Christian Church was getting some of their ideas. Yes.
And Gnosticism is not as originated much earlier than we tend to think.
Yeah, this idea of like secret knowledge is not not of all uniquely Pauline either.
It can be traced back to Philo. It can be traced back for that.
History is littered with people who claim that they have secret knowledge that nobody else has.
Paul is no different. Jesus is no different.
Anyway, so back to this verse.
Similar thing is said by Paul again in 2 Corinthians. Therefore, so we have this
ministry. We have received mercy. We do not lose heart. And even if our gospel is veiled,
it is veiled to those who are perishing and those who in those whose case the God of this world
has blinded them, their minds of the unbelievers, so that they might not see the light of the
gospel, the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. It's a very similar passage. It is a veiled,
a mysterious gospel that's hidden from some but revealed to others. And Mark and Paul differences
in Mark. Jesus is saying he is the one who is hiding the key from everybody else.
And Paul and in 2 Corinthians Paul is claiming that is the ruler of the world, which is the
Satan that's hiding. He's veiled everybody from understanding. So
we're going to skip this.
Okay, we're getting towards the end. Back to 1 Corinthians 15.
Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures and he was buried and he was
raised on the third day according to the scriptures. There is no distinction between
the resurrection and the ascension in this very early pre-Pauline creed.
Nor is there in any of the letters of Paul. In fact, keep in mind that he and Mark was a
later addition. The only place where a distinction is made between the resurrection and the ascension
is Luke. That is the only gospel where Jesus ascends to heaven after his resurrection.
I don't know about y'all. That was crazy to me when I first heard that.
Wait, what? Wait, so Jesus ascends to heaven in any of the gospels except for Luke.
What about I swear I read in John that like he hung out with his disciples and then ascended
to heaven? I'll show you. That's crazy. The end of Mark.
Oh, the end of Mark. I know the end of Mark just stops abruptly, but to the Matthew and John.
Here's all of them. They went out and fled from the tomb from trembling and astonishment and gripped
them and they said nothing to anyone for they were afraid. They fled the tomb. Nothing.
Matthew and Jesus came up and spoke to them. All authority has been given to me in heaven
on earth. Go therefore and make disciples. The great commission. This is the very ending of
Matthew. He gives the great commission to his disciples. That's it. Doesn't send. John, Jesus said
to him, because you have seen me. Have you believed? Blessed are they who did not see and yet
believed. Therefore, many other signs Jesus also performed and presented and it's written in this
book, blah, blah, blah. This is a most scholars tend to believe that John 21 was added later.
So John 20 is actually the last chapter. Even still. John 20. Jesus didn't ascend.
And John 21. If you doubt, if you want to, because I've argued with apologists, you're like, no,
John 21 is a legitimate, legitimately the ending of John and like, no, you're stupid. It's not.
But in any case, even then. And there are many other things that Jesus did that could not be
written in this book. It's to be too, too big. Jesus doesn't ascend. He stays with his disciples.
His disciples. The only time that Jesus ascends again is Luke 24.
That is so bizarre. Right. And he led them out as far as Bethany and he lifted up his hands
and blessed them while he was blessing them. He parted from them and was carried up into heaven.
Man, I need to go back over the New Testament with a fine tooth comb because like, I can't believe I
miss that. That's insane. There's so much shit like this that you don't, that you miss. You're not paying
attention. Yeah. Yeah. None of the letters of John or none of letters of Paul make this talk about an
ascension. Or they don't make a distinction between a resurrection and ascension. And Luke is the only
gospel where Jesus ascends. Fucking bananas, right? Yeah, that's crazy. But it's all there.
Now, more problems with the pre-Pauline creed in 1 Corinthians.
Christians will, or apologists will talk about 1 Corinthians 15 ad nauseam.
They will, they will talk about the shit all day long. It'll drive you nuts.
Because they're not understanding it. They're not reading it right. They're not understanding
it right. They're not comparing it with other literature, right? Again, they're interjecting
their own ad hoc rationalism. Anyway, so here's the order of the appearances. 1 Corinthians,
1 Corinthians, 1 Peter, Peter, then as well, then the 500 brethren, then James, then the apostles,
and last of all, it's a Paul. So who's missing?
The women. Where did the women go? Because according to all four gospels,
they were the first. The women were the first ones to see the resurrected Jesus.
Why didn't Paul leave? And Paul's not citing his own work. He's citing a creed.
Wait, didn't, if you go back a second, don't, because they don't see the resurrected Jesus,
at least in Mark, they just see the empty tomb, right? And then they went away because they were
afraid. Oh, no, you got Mark six. I don't have a whole passage to go to here.
Yeah, yeah. So that actually, there's no, because in Mark, there's no encounter with the resurrected
Jesus. It just ends abruptly at the empty tomb. Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Because they all ran off
scared. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Now, apologies, I'll say. Typical.
Women's testimonies were not reliable. So Paul left those out.
Problem is, Paul praises women. An unusual amount.
Well, he was celibate. So he's probably real horny all the time.
Yeah, or is gay or asexual or whatever. That's the thorn in his side. Yeah, exactly. Yeah.
So most notably, junior, my fellow Jews who have been in prison are a great junior. My fellow
Jew has been in prison with me. They're outstanding among the apostles. They were
Christ before I was. This is just one passage. There's a whole bunch of others.
But I just put this one here. Phoebe, Priscilla, Junia, Typhia versus all women that Paul is praising
for their devotion to their faith. So apologize to be like Paul didn't, Paul left that out because
they're not their testimonies. No, that's bullshit.
If Paul was familiar with the tradition that the women at the tomb were the first ones who
saw Jesus resurrected, he would have put that there. But he didn't.
So you think it's like a later adaptation? Yes, I do.
That makes sense.
Okay, so here's a theory I have about the 500 because inevitably,
you'll talk about what's the evidence of Jesus' resurrection. Christians are going to talk about
the 500 mentioned in 1st Corinthians 15. Here's my theory.
Stick with me. So 1st Corinthians 15, Jesus appears to Cephas and then the 12,
and he appears to more than 500. The Greek word for 500 is Pentecost,
like Pentecost, the day of Pentecost. It's the same word. The holiday that's celebrated 50 years
or 50 days after Jesus' death. In Acts, we have a similar account. They have a list of the 12.
And then they have Peter stood up amongst the gathering of about 120 persons.
Then on the day of Pentecost, where they were all gathered together in one place,
see this? Back in 1st Corinthians 15, the 500 brethren at one time,
Acts chapter 2, all together in one place, suddenly the Holy Spirit appeared to them all,
and they were all filled with Holy Spirit. So I think that Paul and the author of Acts
are drawing from a similar oral tradition that's kind of getting skewed or changed over time.
So like an original version would say like Jesus appeared to the disciples
on the day of Pentecost. That would make sense. That would even line up with the
Gospels. And then Galatians and Acts are telling different versions of that story.
All right, we're getting there, y'all. So how did we get the New Testament? I love talking about this.
And now the book of Revelation almost did not make it into the New Testament.
Are you hanging in there?
Okay. So prior to today, when you talk about all these different Christian dominations are all
arguing with each other about different doctrines about baptism, communion, spiritual gifts,
whatever, but they all kind of have like the similar core ideology about or the core doctrine of
Jesus being resurrected. Well, that's by design. And that kind of came out largely,
came out of the third century. Prior to that, Christianity was all over the place.
These are various Christian groups that existed in the first third century,
the Carpianites, the Medianites, Scythians, Barbarites, Menaceanists, Valentinian Gnostics,
Martianites, Ibnites, Montanists, and the pro-author Orthodox Christians.
These are different groups that we have documentation of. Of Christian, all who
identify as Christians, they use different books. They had different interpretations of those books.
They had different ideologies about the body of Jesus. They had different ideologies about the
end times, baptism. Their beliefs were all over the place.
Then we get about to the third century.
Diocletian ordered destruction of the church, burning of the sacred books and stripping away
of those who resisted the civil rights. Church leaders arrested and forced off for sacrifices
of the vain gods. 311, the Empress passed an edict of tolerance, issuing imperial
clemency so that Christianity may exist again. So in 303, in regards to the book of Revelation,
Christians believed that the book of Revelation was being fulfilled under the reign of Diocletian.
The author of Revelation was talking about the reign of Pontius Pilate,
Nero. In 303, Diocletian was like Nero 2.0. He was not a card to Christians. So they thought
that this was Revelation being fulfilled. But the problem is in 311, the Empress came out
and passed an edict that made Christianity exist again.
Then 312, Constantine conquered Rome, had his vision of Jesus, adopted Christ as his patron,
became Christian-ish. But then when he gained power and took over Rome,
he not only made Christianity legal, he made Christianity favorable.
He gave clergy taxes and status and gave them power to enact legal transactions. He
outlawed crucifixion and public gladiatorial shows. He also built several churches and
commissioned professional scribes to make several copies of the Holy Scriptures,
and to be dispersed throughout the empire. So Christians started to reject the book of Revelation
because it was starting to look like a failed prophecy. Revelation didn't prophesy that they
were going to come out on top. They were going to be persecuted until the end. Suddenly,
they're not being persecuted anymore so much as they are conquering Rome and making all the rules.
So Revelation was starting to be seen as a heretical text.
And if we're going to continue in 3424, Constantine allied himself with the Catholic Church.
He legislated the end of all heretical sex, most of which were Gnostic groups.
He ordered that their books be burned and their property be confiscated and given to the Catholic
Church. So Christianity was doing great in the Roman Empire under Constantine, doing stellar.
So then what do we do about all these books that are being floated around? Because in the ancient
world, or in ancient Rome, there's no standardized unit of text. Every church had its own like list
of books that they used that they deemed to be read or safe to be read in their congregation.
Because again, Rome was still most vastly illiterate. Almost no one could read and write. So in church,
you as the bishop would read these books out loud to your congregation. So each church like had
their own list of books and nobody wanted anything to do with Revelation. Imagine having to read
Revelation to your illiterate congregation. Nobody wanted to do that. That shit crazy. So
So we're between 325 and 340. Eusebius wrote a book, History of the Church. He acknowledged the
controversy around the book of Revelation. He stated that there is no official accepted list
of canonized books in the Testament yet. And he made two lists. One list he considered books that
would be called universally accepted. And the other lists were considered illegitimate.
Universally accepted and illegitimate. He put Revelation in both of those lists.
Yeah. Later, he tried to justify it. He made another letter. I didn't write this down. He made another
follow up letter. It's like, yeah, I did that because some churches still like to use it,
even though almost most of them don't. Some still kind of do so. Yeah. It was very fluid.
Yeah. There's no wise like hierarchical like command center as to which book you could.
There. So 350 Bishops, Cyril of Jerusalem preached a famous sermon to the church of the
Holy Sepulcher, where he announced his list of it. This is where like different bishops and
different clergy groups were like proposing their own lists of books because there were a lot of
much more than we have in our New Testament today, even in the like proposed list of legitimate
books. So there's all these debates about which books. So
in 350, Cyril of Jerusalem announced his list of New Testament books. He said,
whatever books are not read in the church, do not read them even by yourself.
This is what he's declaring of his list. This is my list. Don't read anything else,
not even in your own private private time. Not even to yourself. Read to your congregation.
Don't read them to yourself. All right. 13 years later, a council of Laodicea made their own list
of books that started to gain a popularity. Some years later, theologian Gregory Nazarius
made up his own list and declared, if there is anything besides these, it is not among the
genuine books. Again, this is my list. Everything else is bullshit. More years after that, Bishop
Amphilicus made a list that he said, this is the least falsifiable canon of the divinely inspired
scriptures. The least. This is it, y'all. This is the new hot thing. Right. But
367, Athanasius, Bishop Valusandre, who was present at the Council of Laodicea.
It's kind of where the whole myth of the book was, or the canon was decided,
voted on the Council of Laodicea. It's not at all what happened. Athanasius was just there at the time,
but it was like 30, 35 years later that this happened. Anyway,
okay. He wrote a letter every year at the annual festival.
Yeah, an annual, shit works. Okay. Almost done. Get in there.
He said that Christians, what they were allowed to teach and what needed to be censored.
This is in the letter he wrote. And the letter Athanasius denounced spiritual teachings.
I get this, especially those that were considered to be of well educated.
So he's like, people who are well educated denounced them as heretics.
Again, can't help but think about the modern Republican Party here in Murcia.
Smart people need to be censored. That's exactly what Athanasius is saying here.
Sent for smart people. Anyone listen to Joe Rogan?
Don't get me started. Don't get me started.
Yeah, I know he's a doctor. He's a career virologist. He knows his shit. I don't like what he has to say.
Anyway. But he also ordered that Christians reject all secret books as evil teachings
and included his list. He made his own list. And he said, these are the springs of salvation.
What's unique about this list that Athanasius proposed. It's the only one of these books
that included the book of Revelation. Nobody else, like I said earlier, nobody wanted anything
to do with the book of Revelation. Athanasius included it in his because there's a passage he
could use from it. Let no one add anything or take away from this list. And he was the most
powerful bishop of Rome at the time. So that list, it was still disputed, but it's stuck.
This is the first time the 27 books that are found in the New Testament that we have today
were listed. Year 367. It has not changed since then, even though it's, again, it's been disputed.
But the New Testament that were the Bible that we have today was not ratified until the year 1545.
Five, six hundred years ago. So this list that he proposed was up for debate for 1200 years.
Whoa. Yeah. And this was done. Wait, I thought it was canonized in 367.
No. It was canonized. This is just a list that was eventually canonized. This is when it was
first proposed. Oh, whoa. Okay. It didn't really change after this. Everybody just kind of accepted
it. But it was officially canonized in response to the Protestant Reformation
along with the Apocrypha and all that.
Okay. So all that, all that were at the end here. Home stretch.
All of that without even mentioning all the problems with the claims the New Testament,
how they misrepresent the Old Testament, how they use Greek literature,
how they contradict each other, all that, all that without mentioning how fucking scarce
our New Testament manuscripts are,
all that without mentioning the state of the manuscripts that we actually have,
how late they are. Look at these.
Yeah. All that. Good. That's like the, it's like three gospel accounts for the first 200 years
and it's like credit card and smaller sized pieces. Yeah. That's all we have. Yeah. P45 is
about the size of credit card. Yeah. These are all, these are other manuscripts, just random
pictures. I have like all of them in a book. So you got all these like differing accounts,
all these like misrepresentations of the Old Testament, all of these
historical contradictions like punch, pilot, like none of that shit would have happened.
And then you have in that all that without mentioning this.
This is what we're going off of here. The shreds of toilet paper. This is where we're getting our
information from, for the most part. And even with that, even with that, we're not even talking
about all the differences in the manuscripts that we find versus were added. One John five,
the Johann on comma. Very famous. Luke 22. Jesus blood is poured out for many. It was added later.
Luke 22. Jesus sweating blood added later. Mark nine. This kind comes this cast this kind of demon
can only be cast out by prayer and fasting added later. Mark six out of the Lord's prayer and Luke
11 because Matthew six is a count of the Lord's prayer was too short. So they added like portion
or no, sorry, Luke's account of Lord's prayer was too short. So ascribes took portions of Matthew
and like added it in. John five, Jesus healing of the pool of the bet that's Zuthella. This is the
account of where people like sat there and they waited for the sun come up and they all like rush
to the pool to be healed. And like people we had trampled over that was added later. It's not in
our oldest manuscripts. John seven through eight. Jesus and the woman calm in the military.
The most famous fucking stories ever later, not in our earliest manuscripts. And of course,
the last 12 verses of John 16 containing the Great Commission and the ascension.
Those were added later. It's not talking about the verses that scribes changed either by accident
or on purpose. Right. So we have all these manuscripts, they're in terrible shape.
They're dated much later. And even then they contain contradictory information.
So what are we supposed to do with all this and conclude?
How are we? You can take the slide down. I'm done.
The picture I'm trying to paint.
Right. The picture I'm trying to paint here is
the issues with the claims of the New Testament are layered upon layered upon layered upon layered
upon layered upon layered upon layer. Yeah, Apologist are going to come around
and they're going to be able to like try to explain certain things away conveniently.
Oh, there's a while. Yeah, there's a white end and it's only way. Always a way.
Yeah, we talked about
but if God is omniscient, omniprenebine, omnibenevolence, omnitemporal, all that
shit. If God exists, and he wants us to know he exists, he wants to have a relationship with us.
Why is this the evidence he has given us to prove that to us? If I wanted to have a loving
relationship with my wife, I would not give her a balled up piece of paper that I've soaked in
wax and thrown down a hill that I made some illiterate guy read and copy down and then give
to her. That's what God does. If you believe in the God of the Bible, that's what the God of the
Bible does to convey his love for us. He gives us this insane accounts that don't add up, don't make
any sense. And he's like, I'm doing this because I love you. I don't buy it. I don't buy it. And if
you're okay with this standard of evidence, then you'll believe anything. Literally anything.
Okay, so I was not expecting the absolute slam dunk of a presentation that you were
being over three hours and 40 minutes. That is the longest we've ever done in deep drinks.
That is fucking wild. What you presented in this in that presentation was I was not ready,
like, okay, I got a comment. Kevin Deadpool needs to go back to school and get his PhD
in adjustments so he can teach this full-time. People would pay mad money for this. I don't
know where that, did you make that presentation for this? Was this for a presentation for something
else that you bring to this? That was so dense. I have a Google Docs folder, whenever I do research,
I put all my shit in different files. And I made the presentation. I put all
piece that information into the slideshow. Man, that could be a course. I think that could be a
book. Honestly, that was... Oh, thank you. Thank you for the super chat, DJ. I've got to go about
it in a few bucks. Thank you so much. I really appreciate it. Yeah, that's really wild to me.
I had no idea the level of research and effort you put into that. Thank you so much. You asked a
few times, you're good. My brain is fried. I need to go and I need to watch this a
few more times so I can all you because that... Yeah, again, congratulations. Everyone's giving
you that. That is amazing. I do also want to say, too, that just tack on to something.
I do have to wrap up now. I'm supposed to be working. I'm so... Yeah, I'm sorry. I had no
idea. No, no. I'm glad it did. I'm glad it did. I've got to pop out some work. But I'll listen to
you forever. But something that you mentioned is, does this make sense giving your partner a rolled
up piece of paper and saying, no. Think about this. Imagine that you're an all-powerful being
and you have a special message that you want to give to everyone in the world. And this message
is so important, it doesn't even rival death as important. It's the most important thing
that every single sentient creature on the planet needs to know. What would you do? And would it
differ from the... What would it differ from the God of the Bible? What would it differ from
the God of the Quran? What would you differ from the Hindu gods? What would it differ from any
of the God beliefs that we have? And if so, are you saying you're better than God? Why? Why would
it differ? Are you saying that you're not that God? The only way you can get around this is if
you say that God did it in a specific way because either he doesn't want to have a relationship with
us or doesn't care, doesn't want to give this information out in which case, like, who cares
about the Bible anyway then? Or that you have to say, well, they were sufficient reasons for God
and just handwave it all away. But I'm on the same boat as you. I don't know why
I don't know if anyone could honestly say that they wouldn't just make everyone know in their mind or
Yeah, like God could end the need for apologetics instantly. Yeah, the fact that there are apologetics
effortless for it. Yeah, why is it? Yeah, so are you really willing to
spend your entire life? The only life you have, in my opinion,
following this sketchy ass ideology? Like, are you sure that's how you want to do this?
Yeah, you've not only ignited a deep need for me to go do some more research, but you've actually
started me for theology again. I was over theology and I was just into
I'm all looking at the history of stuff, but the theology of things, like, that's
super interesting. Like, you're giving nine of that in me and, you know, thank you so much. I
appreciate it. Just because we're at 3045 minutes, we'll wrap up the show there. But
guys, make sure you go follow Captain Dadpool on YouTube, on TikTok, all his links in the
description. Thank you so much for coming on. I really appreciate it. And again, we'll have to
have you on again. This has been such a crazy learning experience. Yeah, so we shoot off.
What was that? Is there anything you want to say before we jump off?
Good night.
Also, but seriously, good night. See you guys. Bye.
Bye.
