Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks podcast.
It's a very exciting episode.
Nira Khan is an ex-Muslim, human rights activist
and content creator who has had many popular debates
with Muslim apologists for things like
on the right for women to unveil,
Quranic values and more.
You may know her as Holy Humanist
and today we welcome her for the second time on Deep Drinks.
Welcome, Nira Khan.
Hey, welcome Nira.
Hi David.
Thank you, thank you.
You have such a sick intro by the way.
Thank you.
I think I used some like template
and I like tweaked a little bit
but mainly it was the template's work.
Thank you.
Co, all right.
So, well, thank you.
We're running a little bit late today
and I apologize to everyone.
That's mainly my fault.
Mainly, it's a little bit mine as well, so.
It's 7 a.m. for me.
I overslept my alarm and yeah.
But that's good, that's fine
because what have we got to drink today, Nira?
We have got some Baileys in the house today.
Yep, and I'm adding mine to some coffee, so.
Yes, that's why I thought it'd be the perfect drink
for me to have as dessert and a nightcap
and you to have the shot of coffee.
Yeah, so what time is it for you over in London town?
Even lunch?
Yes, yes, it's just on 10 o'clock in the evening.
So, yeah, cheers from London.
Well, I'm going to, I haven't poured mine in yet
but I'm going to do that now.
Okay, so I need some special for you, David.
I don't usually do this
but I added a ton of ice
and then I actually crushed Ferrero Rocher into this.
Oh, that sounds so good.
Yeah, it looks incredible.
That sounds so good.
Awesome, well, thanks for everyone coming out.
If those who don't know this channel,
I have deep conversations over deep drinks.
The guest chooses the drink
and then it sets the tone for the interview.
I've had people choose tea
and I've had people choose vodka
and I'll do whatever the guest wants to drink.
So I'm so stoked for this.
So, Nuri, you haven't been on the show for like a while.
So you were on the 22nd episode of Deep Drinks
and now it is number 83.
David, you've been busy.
I know, I have been.
So how have you been over the last like,
I don't know, six a year or whatever, 10 months
or I think it's been, what have you been up to?
How's your channel been going?
Yeah, it's going well actually, thank you.
Yeah, it's been a hot minute
since you and I have done a collaboration on a podcast.
Actually, we always leave it too late
but yeah, that's life gets in the way.
It's going strong and steady, to be honest.
I am trying to make it really kind of either,
I get somebody on who wants to share their story
and use my platform to do so,
especially when it comes to women.
So I've got an ex-Hijabi French-Moroccan woman
coming to tell her story tomorrow.
She's got an incredible story
and again, she just reached out saying,
I saw your interview with the Post-Date Prophet
and it gave me the courage to,
I feel like I can say mine.
So that's like exact like demographic
of what my channel is aiming to do.
But yeah, I've been, it's been a bit quiet lately
because I've, you know, work and life
but I've got a couple of things in the pipeline.
So yeah, and there's always stuff going on
in the community page.
So yeah, do keep an eye out.
But oh yeah, that's it.
Thank you, David.
So I saw this, and I was like,
this looks really, really cool.
So I'm looking forward to this one.
So when is that?
It's in a couple of days, is it?
Or tomorrow?
In about 23 hours from now.
So yeah.
Awesome.
Okay, well it's six a.m. for me.
I might have, I'll have to see if I can get up.
If not, I'll watch it.
I'll definitely be watching it.
But yeah, like you've got so much good content
on your channel.
So much cool stuff,
critical faculty's been on.
Yeah, you just pumping out really awesome stuff.
Hanny's been on, which is cool.
Yeah.
Yeah, cool.
Yeah, we tend to do a lot more deep dives.
But David, also right back at you,
I've been watching some of your recent streams
and just because your topics you choose
pique my interest anyway,
it's so like a lot of tea.
But I've just been falling asleep
listening to your podcast and I'm like, wow.
Like just honestly, I was like, go ahead.
That's great.
I'm really stoked.
Yeah, I'm really stoked about that.
Thank you.
But sometimes I'm trying like,
I'm like, do people actually like this show?
Like sometimes I like question it.
So yeah, it's nice to hear that.
Yeah, no, honestly, I just before we go,
because normally you get such an information overload.
So I always hear about like,
oh, let's talk about the Mesopotamian origins
of the Bible or, you know,
how mythology affected the Bible or whatever.
But and so all of that information
gets just like lost in your mind.
But the way that you kind of interview your guests,
I really liked that style.
Like a lot of the information and nuggets
of like knowledge was stuck in my mind.
Like especially when it came down to like Assyrian,
Akkadian, you know, the old manuscripts,
that that was really helpful from your channel.
So my hat's off to you.
You know, I think that is like, not to, to my humble,
I think like that's a little bit of my gift.
Like I think I'm a little slow.
And so I think that what it is, is like,
I'm trying to understand on like a,
on like a 12 year old level.
So then like I asked, so I think like it's worked.
Like my slowness is like,
actually helps the channel a little bit.
So yeah.
Yeah, I channeled that.
It's sweet.
So I've got a clip that I would like to show.
It's kind of start off this whole conversation.
So we want to talk about,
there is the, we're on a,
we're currently on like an anti-apologetics arc
on this channel.
So I came to the realization that
apologetics of any form was like inherently dishonest.
I don't care what it is.
I just think it's, it's dishonest.
It comes from a place of it's, it's, it's like a,
it's like a car salesman.
They're always going to tell you goodbye car.
They're never going to tell you like,
oh, maybe you don't need a car.
They're there to sell you a car.
That's what an apologist job is to do.
And I wanted to really get that message across.
And, but obviously with my background,
I focus mainly on Christianity.
And, and it's regardless of whether or not
something is true or valid,
the apologetics of Christianity is just incredibly dishonest.
And I was like,
I wonder if Islamic apologetics is dishonest as well.
And of course, yes, it was from my investigations.
Anyway, so I have a clip that I want to show.
And then we can use that to dive into some of the ethical
problems that we find in Islam.
Now, it's strictly, I guess you could say that,
you know, if God is the author of,
you know, if Allah is the author of these laws,
then, and what he says goes, then they're not immoral.
Like, I guess you could just say, like,
oh, well, that's the way it is.
This doesn't just prove anything.
But I guess what I'm trying to do is like,
is like, is, I guess, show things for what they are
and just see if that sits well with everybody.
So this is what I tend to do with the Bible as well.
Hey, the Bible can do in slavery.
Hey, the Bible can do in sex slavery.
Does that sit well with you?
And what a lot of people will do is they'll say, no,
like it doesn't sit well with me.
And then they'll try and argue,
no, it doesn't contain sex slavery.
It doesn't contain slavery.
And that's where you can just easily demonstrate
that they do, that it does.
So I thought we can play this beautiful clip
from friend of the show.
Legend is not actually, is some,
but Daniel, do you know who he is?
I don't know how to say his last name.
I don't want to be rude.
Haki Kachou.
Yes, that's it.
So this is, just to kick off our conversation,
this is a conversation where he's debating inspiring
philosophy on the merits of child marriage.
Is it acceptable?
So we're starting off quite spicy.
And I just want to play this little section
because inspiring philosophy is arguing the point
that, so the Quran says, correctly from long Nuriya,
but it says that when a lady,
a girl has reached maturity,
as in like she's gotten her period
or gone through some sort of puberty,
then she's right to have sex in marriage.
Is that right?
Well, the Quran doesn't put any kind of condition on it.
That's why we've got the whole open-endedness
with the child marriage because it gives a waiting period
for children who have not menstruated
and then women or girls who have menstruated.
Oh, okay.
So it needs to happen again.
Yeah, so well, what Daniel is positing here
is that at any age, someone can get married,
but the sex is meant to be after,
maybe he's using some Hadith or something,
but it's meant to be after they reach puberty.
But the problem is, is you have things
like precocious puberty where children can have,
go through puberty at ridiculously young ages,
three years old, two years old, like even younger.
So this is him kind of biting the bullet on that.
And I just want to show you this clip.
So it's kind of set the tone.
That's our maximizing fertility, right?
When the body is physically mature,
according to Islamic law.
Do you know what precocious puberty is?
Yes, I do.
Okay, what is it?
It means going, starting puberty unusually early,
like beyond averages.
Is there anything in Islam that prevents you
from getting a man marrying a five-year-old
that started precocious puberty?
No, marriage can happen.
Like you can arrange a marriage even as an infant,
but that doesn't mean that sex is allowed.
Okay, could a man have a marriage to a five-year-old,
consummate it if she started precocious puberty?
If she starts showing signs of physical maturity,
then yes, that's permissible, as I stated.
What about age four?
If there are signs of...
So this is something that becomes biologically impossible,
because precocious puberty, there are no...
I have a study that shows it goes as early as 11 months.
All right, well, that's something that the parents would not...
See, the thing about Islamic marriage
is that parents are involved at these ages.
And when you look at the marriage
of the Prophet, the Isha,
her parents were involved.
And so she was not living with the Prophet,
the Isha, even though
she was married to him.
So the parents have oversight.
And sometimes a body or a judge can have oversight
if the guardians are not capable
to make sure that the rights
and the physical well-being of a child or a minor
are not harmed by that marriage.
What about...
Because you've tried to justify sexual slavery after a war.
So what if a man finds a seven-year-old,
let's say, he started her period,
could he take her back to the sex slave?
So that's a whole different debate on slavery and concubin...
I'm just talking about the minor aspect.
Would that be fine?
Yeah, so if a girl is any age,
she can be taken as...
A sex slave, right?
Yeah, as opposed to being left to die after a war.
So women can't take care of themselves.
They would need to be taken by the men
because they're too capable of caring for themselves.
Only about 10 seconds left.
Yeah, a four-year-old, a seven-year-old,
an eight-year-old, and nine-year-old.
Not about the women and the children.
So I just want to stop it there for a sec,
but I do want to continue it.
I think that Daniel is being consistent
with the Islamic values,
and that's why we're talking about that today.
What are your thoughts so far, Nira?
Yeah, 100%.
As far as Daniel goes,
the one thing he does with his apologetics
is that he stays very true to mainstream Islam,
and he won't try and mess around with it
or try and make it more palatable to modern values today.
So the example he gave was literally the sunnah.
So it's like following the tradition
of what Prophet Muhammad did,
and that's the most exemplar marriage they have to follow
is that of Aisha's,
where the marriage was contracted
before she had reached puberty,
and then there's all these hadiths
that she was literally playing with dolls,
and she'd be playing with other little girls in the house,
even when she was married to the Prophet,
and he would come in,
and she would say that my girl had friends,
they would run away,
and the Prophet would say,
no, no, it's okay, you can stay here and play.
And then there's hadiths which get a bit darker
and talk about how you interact
with a child bride of yours
before she's reached menstruation,
so she's not physically able to tolerate intercourse.
So there's weird concepts in Islam,
like of thawing and other things
that the Prophet used to do,
including things that descriptions of how he treated her
when she did eventually reach puberty
and she did start menstruating,
then it discusses how he would fondle her
during those times as well,
but there's a full-on, in the literature,
we have enough scope to know
that the marriage was contracted by her father,
and she was given to Muhammad essentially,
but it was known that she would go to his house
when she reached the stage of puberty,
but you see that happening in Afghanistan as well,
like men and fathers sell their daughters
or contract their daughters into a marriage
before they even,
like honestly, when they're newborns, David,
so they have no idea,
and by the time they turn six or seven,
they're kind of getting ready to go
to that husband, quote, unquote, house,
and then you have no idea in those situations
if those men are even following the sunnah
or they even care about it
because they are buying five-year-olds,
they're buying girls who traditionally would not
have reached puberty if they're developing normally,
but yeah, Daniel Kikachu is completely on point
with the Islamic sunnah of Prophet Muhammad's marriage to Aisha.
Yeah, and it's one of these things where
it's obviously deplorable,
it's obviously disgusting in so many different ways,
but one thing I want to,
and I mentioned this to you in the previous stream,
is one thing I wanted to mention to everyone is Muslims,
and in this case, specifically Muslim girls, Muslim women,
are affected by Islamic ideology more than anyone else.
This is not an attack against the people
or Muslims in general,
especially even ones that grew up with these poor ideologies
and have these worldviews,
this is more a critique of Islam,
the ideology of Islam in general,
which I think is incompatible with 21st century,
or 22nd, our values in the 21st century.
I think it's just absolutely, it just doesn't work,
it can't work, it gets things wrong about science,
it gets things wrong about what we know
about the well-being of other people,
and yeah, so let's continue,
because he makes a really good point.
Yeah, this is the topic of sex slavery,
which is also endorsed in the Old Testament
and practiced by Moses and other prophets like Joshua,
so that is a practice found within the Bible,
it's found within Islam, within the Quran,
and it's practiced again universally.
And I'll give you a chance to wrap up that sentence,
and then we gotta go to the next portion.
Yeah, so if you want to condemn Islam
for these kinds of practices,
you have to condemn Christianity
and your entire religious tradition
for exactly the same practices, if not worse,
so I don't see the logic of this.
We'll jump.
So, well done Daniel, I would agree, mate, I would agree,
and that's why I do reject those things.
It's interesting because a lot of the ways that Daniel,
did you watch this whole debate?
No.
So the way that Daniel would argue things,
he'd say, well, Christianity has the same problems,
like Christianity has the same issues,
and it's like, yeah,
and I'm sitting here going like, you're both wrong,
like you're both got these like barbaric worldviews
that are like outdated, and so yeah, it's amazing.
Yeah, it's interesting, David,
because obviously when there's like two fierce debating,
the kind of MO is to like turn against
the other person's religion or like,
make them look inward, then it's just kind of like,
oh, it's Lord of the Rings versus Harry Potter at that point.
So it's like, okay, just because it's readily there,
parent in your ideology,
therefore you can't condemn mine, right?
So it's just like, okay, you've got the same dirt,
so what happens there, that's why it's a lot more productive
when you do kind of get into these situations with theists,
and you don't have any dog in the fight per se,
because it's so much easier for us to call out both,
like you just said straight away, like, yeah, I agree.
But this is again, this is one of the tactics
of Muslim apologetics,
is just to really turn hard on Christianity, Judaism,
whatever they have to throw under the bus,
even if that means throwing Islam under the bus,
saying that we're also wrong in practicing sex slavery,
because you guys also do it,
but then we're all wrong together.
Yeah, it's like an admission of guilt.
It's like, yeah, well, you know, the Bible has it as well.
And it's like, yeah, well, okay, like, that's not the,
that's not the flex you think it is, bruh.
Like, it's, so I actually thought we could do some,
you know, do some reading of the Bible in the Quran,
which is so fun, but I actually have,
so I have the same Quran as was pictured
in the hands of one Andrew Tate when he was in prison.
So this is actually the same Quran that I chose to get.
It's actually a really beautiful Quran.
It is, yeah.
But it's so funny when I saw him holding it,
I was like, no way, I got the same Quran.
Is that the one that Honey has as well?
I think there was one Honey recommended.
It looked like that.
It's by that author.
Oh, okay, Abdul Haleem, right, right.
So it's got the, it's got the Arabic right next to the,
yeah, it's really, it is really beautiful.
And I have to admit, there are parts of the Quran
that I found very beautiful.
I just don't think it makes up
for all the horrid stuff in there.
You know, if you look at it,
if you look at it for like what it is,
like literature from, you know,
the, that area at the time, cool.
Like, that's where they're at.
That's like the story.
It's a bit of history, like, you know,
but if you look at it as like divine inspired words of God,
that's when you start to get into some trouble.
But I've also, oh, sorry.
No, I was just gonna say,
I used to honestly think the exact same thing
about the Quran as well.
Like it's still when I hear it,
or when I still have my favorite kind of like recitation
that I do find really soulful.
I haven't listened to it since I left Islam,
but like even when I'd hear the call to prayer still,
you know, it had that nice charm to it at some point,
but it was only until,
I think I watched one of Abdullah Sameer's videos
and that obviously in pagan Arabia before Islam,
so pre-Islamic Arabia, there was this entire concept.
Obviously it was an oral tradition.
So poetry was like really kind of just like,
just the art of the, you know, of the era there,
let's say, so everybody was kind of reciting these couplets
and various Arab tribes would have their own couplets
about going to war, about love, about death,
about all of these things.
So when Prophet Muhammad first came up with like,
all kind of started reciting these Quran verses
and the people heard them, it's in the Quran
that, you know, the disbelievers
or the people that were doubting his prophethood were saying,
these are just poems that we've heard before Muhammad,
like you're just repeating things that we've heard previously
and that just goes to show how much
that story was picked up, yeah.
Whoa, that's blaming me.
Cause I thought the biggest arrow in the Islamic quiver
was the fact that they're like,
if you know it in Arabic,
it's impossible to deny that it's not from God.
Like it's perfect, it's like two puck, you know,
like it's just like the lyrics are just like, you know,
like it's just, but are you saying that Muhammad
was likely using, like, is the record of people saying this?
Like the traditions that go back before Muhammad,
about the stuff he was saying.
Yeah, I mean, like it gets come all the way down
into the Quran itself,
because that's how much people around him, the naysayers,
the Quran calls them, were saying, you know,
you're not bringing anything new to the table, mate.
These are just tales and fables and poems that we've heard.
And then if you look at the Islamic record,
the amount of poets that Muhammad killed in his time
is astonishing and poets that he once revered
and he was clearly, he heard of.
And, you know, like I said, that styled,
I forgot the exact parameter
of what that kind of poetic style is.
But yeah, if again, if you listen to,
there was a pre-Islamic poem
and I think Abdullah Sameer played it side by side
with the Quran and David, I kid you not,
if I close my eyes,
I would not be able to tell the difference.
I got just the same amount of goosebumps from that poem,
which was totally completely different, right?
In that Quranic style would give you the shivers.
Again, if you have that bias or that inclination,
in the same way that Quran would do.
So again, it's that language differential.
They take advantage of saying, you know,
you have to understand classical Arabic,
then you'd understand the marvel of it.
It was very much around.
And again, that's a very vivid style of Bedouin poetry,
but the Quran essentially jacked that style.
Whoa, that makes so much sense.
That makes so much sense, so damn.
Okay, well, so I got five verses I'd love to go through.
And I have to shout out ChatGDP,
because I said write out some controversial Quranic verses,
some controversial Bible verses,
and then pair them under the same categories.
And then I was like, did it all.
And I was like, great, this is perfect.
So I've got my Bible that I read through ministry college
and I was hoping that you could read the Quranic verses
and then I'll read the Bible verses
under the same broad structure.
So we can kind of really nail home what Daniel said,
which is if you've got a problem with Islam,
you have to have a problem with the Bible
for these same things.
So could you do Quran 434?
Sure, let me just pull it out.
Sorry, one second.
No worries.
And I'll turn to Ephesians 522.
It does feel weird sometimes to be reading
like the Bible like this on the,
it feels like I'm back at like a small group
or like some sort of like church service.
Well, it's all interesting for me to be able to read it
in Arabic with people.
I've just spent half my life reading it in Arabic.
So this is, and I never spent enough time in the UK
to actually be that familiar with the Bible.
So except for like Christmas carols
and like the Christian hymns,
that's like the extent of my knowledge.
Okay.
So yeah, let me know, do you want me to start?
Yeah, you can start, yeah.
Okay, sure.
So this is Surah An-Nisa Quran 434
and it reads, men are caretakers of women
since Allah has made some of them excel over others.
And because of the wealth they have spent,
so the righteous women are obedient
and guard the property and honor of their husband
in their absence with the protection given by Allah.
As the women who you fear rebellion,
convince them and leave them apart in beds and beat them.
Then if they obey you, do not seek away against them.
Surely Allah is the highest, the greatest.
Cool, so that's definitely spicier than the verse I have.
I will amend the verse I have though to say something else.
So Ephesians 5, 22.
Wives submit to your husbands as to the Lord,
for a husband is the head of the wife
as Christ is the head of the church,
his body of which he is the savior.
Now as the church submits to Christ,
so also wives should submit to their husbands
in everything.
So it does go on in this verse to say,
each one of you must also love his wife
as he loves himself
and the wife must respect her husband.
So it does go on to say,
it's a bit nicer than beat them if they disobey.
Brinkles a little bit of luck, yeah.
But it's the same dynamic where the man is put at the head,
is the authority, and the woman is put in the role of submission,
the role of the lower, the lesser, the not as important.
And so you've got this gender inequality here.
And in the Quran it comes down to domestic abuse,
which I have to point out, we had Masud on this channel before,
he'll never come on the show again.
We were talking about his Islamic values and his belief,
and then he just dropped that.
Yeah, I think Quran 434 is good,
and that if the world implemented this,
we would have less domestic abuse.
And I was like, I don't know how you solve domestic abuse
with domestic abuse, and then the whole conversation,
people can go listen to what it's a shit song,
but the whole conversation turned to that.
And that just shows you how ingrained this stuff is.
It's like fighting fire with fire.
It's literally trying to put out a fire with fire.
Yeah, exactly.
And the answer to violence is never more violence, right?
You need to tackle the problem,
but I admire your patience in that conversation.
I did listen to her as much as I could.
Yeah, I know it's so.
Well, what I will say is,
and I'm going into this when I'm telling a bit of my story
on Mid-Vision Podcast,
but it gets worse when it comes to women and men in the Bible
in the New Testament.
Luckily, I think this is a non-Pauline epistle.
That means it's not a genuine Pauline epistle,
but I think, have to fact check me.
But in one Timothy, it says that women are not to speak
or have authority over a man in church.
They're not to speak in church.
And a lot of churches still do this.
They want women to be pastors and things like that.
And I remember talking to some people when I was deconstructing
and I said, hey, like, why is this?
And they said, well, that was just for a time.
That's not for now, which is really interesting
because they will say homosexuality.
And those instructions are still valid.
But then when you read further in the verse,
it says, these are the reasons for the woman was deceived first,
the eve was deceived first, the eve first ate the fruit.
And that's still valid today.
So I don't know how they get around that unless you reject that.
So there is a lot of misogyny in the Bible as well.
And David does that to women having to menstruate their entire lives
until men are paused and also bearing the pain of childbirth
because all the way directly back to Eve.
Yeah, yeah, because the eve ate the fruit.
And I used to, this is horrible.
I used to make that joke.
Amy, when Amy would have her time of the month
and she'd be in a little bit of pain,
I'd be like, well, shouldn't have eaten the fruit.
And she would like, she would like, like, it's so,
she's like, you don't even believe that.
And I would just laugh.
But I would, it was a joke and she knew it was a joke.
She said, shouldn't have been a week enough man to follow the command.
Yeah, yeah, exactly, exactly.
So that was one out of five.
So next one, punishment for blasphemy.
So can you turn to Quran 533 and I'll turn to the Old Testament
where the fun stuff is Leviticus 2416.
Yeah, I was very lucky that I survived the early years of a marriage.
Oh, you chose a very brutal story here, David.
I didn't.
And do you know what?
Do you want so frustrating?
And this is because there's a lot of political correctness around.
And for the most part, I love political correctness.
I'm not a, I'm not someone who just thinks that everyone should be running
around being arseholes to everyone.
But it's so frustrating because you ask it a verse about the Bible
and it gives you just like this verse about the Bible.
Like it gives you this, but you ask about the Quran
and it gives you this huge preamble.
Like not all scholars think this and it's like, and you can see,
because it's trained off like the language of what people have been talking
on the internet about the Quran and people defend it and things like that.
And try not to be ever since 9 11, the hatred towards Muslims as a people.
It's been horrible.
So you can see that it's trying to like buffer that a little bit.
And I'm like, I don't need the preamble.
Like I'm not an idiot.
Just like tell me these verses.
And I actually said, I don't need the preamble.
And it's like, sorry, hear the verses.
Well, David, like my first interaction with chat to you,
just to test it out.
And my first question was, does the Quran have a lower age limit for marriage?
And it responded saying, yes, in this blah, blah, blah verse,
there is a lower age limit set to, you know, women who menstruate or something.
And I said, show me that verse, please.
And it showed me the verse and I said, where in this verse does it say
menstruation or when they have reached menstruation?
As you said, and then it literally was like, sorry.
I'm just like learning software.
Yeah.
Why are you lying to me?
You straight up just a lie.
Chat to you.
It's a bit woke at the moment for when it comes to Islam.
Google is still a better friend to me than chat to beauty for Islam.
Yeah.
Wow.
Damn.
Damn.
Okay.
All right.
What about your verse on punishment for blasphemy?
Okay.
So this is Surah Al Maida and it's, yeah, it's punishment for fitna.
So that can, that can mean pretty much any kind of mystery for corruption in the
land.
So it reads those who fight against Allah and his messenger and run about
trying to spread disorder on the earth.
Their punishment is no other than they shall be killed or be crucified or their
hands and legs be cut off from different sides or they be kept away from the land
they live in.
That is a humiliation for them in this world.
And for them, there is a great punishment in the hereafter.
Mic drop.
Again, I think the Quran takes a cake on the brutality of that.
Jesus.
Yeah.
David, bring it.
You can't match that.
Okay.
If you're going to the office, maybe, maybe.
Okay.
This is, this is very tough.
This is, this is very to the point.
Like I feel like, I feel like the Quran really like is good with the details.
This just, this just has instructions.
So if anyone curses his God, he will be held responsible.
Anyone who blasphemes the name of the Lord must be put to death.
Sorry.
This is Leviticus 24 16.
Anyone who blasphemes the name of the Lord must be put to death.
The entire assembly must stone him.
Whether an alien or native born, when he blasphemes the name, he must be put to death.
Okay.
There's a lot of death.
There's a lot of death.
It's like, it's like, it's just, it's just like, okay.
Like it's a lot.
Like, yeah, I mean, it's like, it's, it's.
The sadistic humiliation aspect of that the Quran throws in a little.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But think about like, think about like stoning someone to death.
Think about like what it takes to, to literally just be everyone throwing rocks at them until they're beaten to death.
Like that.
That's, it's kind of horrible.
Yeah.
You would, you would expect you would just, and this is, this isn't.
So what I really like to do is reposition the framework.
So I'm not roasting God here, but I kind of am.
I'm roasting the idea of like people's idea of God, because if you believe that the creator of the universe created
everything, he's all powerful, all knowing and stuff, and he gets so offended at something like this.
Like, you're teasing God, not me.
I'm not teasing God.
I'm saying stop teasing God.
It's not okay to be, say this about the creator of the universe.
If there is a creator of the universe, he isn't that childish.
He isn't that misogynistic.
He isn't that like, like you're being ridiculous.
So yeah, it's just, to me, these, these things just show the, the sanity of some of these scriptures.
Yeah.
And also just the point that a lot of the, like in Islam, when it comes to some of the punishments, they have actually gotten some of those from the Old Testament as well.
So that is where you do see like a little bit of a continuation when it comes to like stoning and things like that.
Muhammad had interactions where he saw Jewish practices being carried out and he would ask, what does the Torah say on this?
Or he'd get involved in a, in a situation where the punishment according to the Torah would be carried out.
So then you see kind of him trying to differentiate himself from Jewish practices, but the literature has examples going both ways.
But stoning most people say is one of them.
That was a continuation from the Old Testament.
Oh, interesting.
This is why it's important to have you on because you have the context to put all the Islamic stuff into, into like correct context.
Okay.
So the next one.
Quran for three.
Forced marriage.
One, four, three.
Okay.
So it's from Surah An-Nisla again, which is Surah of women.
How much of this do you?
Okay.
Okay.
Let me just get the question.
Okay.
So for three reads, if you fear that you will not deal fairly with orphan girls, you may marry whichever other women seem good to you, two, three or four.
If you fear that you cannot be equitable to them, then marry only one or your slaves.
That is more likely to make you avoid bias or abstain from injustice.
Or that is more suitable for you.
The translations differ, but that's the gist.
Hmm.
So do you know, is that, did, did Chatty, did Chatty choose a good verse for that?
Or do you think there are better verses for forced marriage?
I mean, I think that that's a good one for showing like the sex slavery aspect as well, because it's like what your right hand possess.
And also, yeah, I mean, it is, it's the, it's basically the right to polygamy.
But there's, there's an instance where there's, there's a number of marriages that Muhammad, like, you know, has done, but a couple of them end up in the Quran, you know, with varying contexts.
But that, yeah, there's, there's, I think two more that Chatty could have gone a little bit harder on Muhammad's marriage, mainly one of them where he's like rebuking his, his current wives and saying, Why do you stop me from, you know, doing what Allah has allowed me to do essentially,
which was basically to have a sexual relationship with one of the slave girls that the wives weren't happy with.
And then him getting his married, his marriage arranged to his adopted son's wife, who was also his cousin.
But again, in that you don't see an element of consent from her side, it's more like it comes down as an order from God that he should marry her.
So that's kind of hints at forced marriage as well and absolutely no consent.
And then also marital rape, the, the, you know, enter your, your, your wives or your TILF enter them, how you please, that has elements of forced marriage, marital rape or the kind of harmful practices coming together.
And you have this, this thing to where like every cult leader is like, God wants me to have sex with your wife.
Like at some stage, this every cult leader wants to have sex with every member's wife.
And that feels similar in this situation where he's like, God, God said, God said that we have to sleep with you, sleep with slave girl.
So, okay, so I think we, I think the Bible's got you this, got you on this one.
So did it only 22, 28 to 29.
If a man happens to meet a virgin who is not pledged to be married and rapes her and they are discovered, he shall pay the girl's father 50 shekels of silver.
He must marry the girl for he has violated her.
He can never divorce her as long as he lives.
A man is not to marry his father's wife, he must not dishonor his father's head, but sorry, that's a, it's moved on now.
But yeah, so brutal.
So if a man meets a virgin who is not pledged, he must have to be married and rapes her and they are discovered.
So first of all, if they are discovered, he shall pay the girl's father 50 shekels of silver.
So it puts a price on that.
And he must marry the girl for he has violated her now.
I don't know what kind of rapist, rape victim doesn't want to, this is, this just streams me totally demonetized.
But I don't know what kind of rape victim doesn't want to marry her rapist.
And then he can never divorce her as long as he lives.
There's again, there's absolutely no concern for the, the woman's like agency in this situation.
I think he definitely, the Bible definitely takes the biscuit on that one.
Yeah, having to marry your rapist and then paying father because you're essentially not a human being in your own right, but you've actually offended or insulted the father, right?
You've committed a crime against the father, not even that girl herself.
Yeah, it's like property rights.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, essentially exactly.
Okay, two more.
So violence and punishment, violence and war.
So Quran 929.
And yeah, that's a strong one.
Is it?
I got so many like scribbles in here, like from my youth ministry days, like, I don't know if you can see that, but there's like, preach.
Oh yes.
So I've got some of this stuff.
Is that when, oh, is that when you actually use this stuff?
Yeah, yeah.
It's like slowly falling apart.
But yeah, it's like look at this ready.
Check this out.
Oh my God.
So we got, come on.
Discipleship Jesus, each other, world, the level of effectiveness is determined by your level of surrender.
God didn't take my sins.
God didn't take my sins.
I gave it to him.
Here we go.
Here's like a little thing I used to draw everywhere.
Can you see that?
Yeah.
I'm happy plus Jesus.
He was happy to the power of eternity.
Oh my God.
The equation of life.
That was your answer to Einstein, David.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Obviously I've always been an intellectual.
Yes.
I can't believe you were Nobel Peace Prize for that equation.
Oh, you've got to get a bumper sticker or a tattoo of that just for the joke.
Okay.
Yeah, sure.
Do you want me to read?
Yeah, you jump in.
Yeah.
Okay, sure.
This is Surah Ad Tovah 929 and it reads, okay, fight against, sorry, this one is a better translation.
Okay, fight against such of those who have been given the scripture and believe not in Allah,
nor in the last day and forbid not that which Allah has forbidden by his messenger and follow
not the religion of truth until they pay the tribute readily and are utterly subdued.
Other words are belittled and humiliated as well.
Yeah, right.
So that doesn't seem, I was expecting it to be worse than that.
Well, essentially this is a, you know, fight the non believers, especially targeting the
Jews and the Christians because you guys were given the scriptures.
When I say you guys, I meant you.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
You've given the scriptures and you still do not believe in the conclusiveness and the
finality of Muhammad as the prophet.
It's, it's interesting because one of the things that the Bible has is that a lot of the stories
like in Exodus and Joshua and stuff are not true.
They're not accurate.
It's a history.
So I don't know.
So I guess that's a win.
I guess that's a win for the Bible.
Like the Bible's falsehood there.
Like in that there was no Exodus from Egypt, at least as far as the archaeology and everything
else can tell.
So this probably didn't happen, but it says Joshua 621.
Okay.
I'll go from verse 20.
When the trumpet sounded, the people shouted and at the sound of the trumpet, when the
people gave a loud shout, the walls collapsed.
So this is the story of the, they walked around Jericho for a few days and then blow trumpets
and the walls came down.
So every man charged straight in and they took the city.
They devoted the city to the Lord and destroyed with the sword every living thing in it.
Man and woman, young and old cattle, sheep and donkeys.
So I don't know what the sheep did or the donkeys did or the young children or the women.
But yeah, I guess there's not much to say about that.
It's just brutal.
And again, you don't stop at humanity.
But again, like David said, the thing is with, again, I guess we come from different angles
of what the book is saying and the context and whether there's any evidence behind it
or not.
But for example, even in the last passage about marrying a rapist, it's kind of like
if people are still the mentality and the psyche, and if that's institutionalized in
a way where, let's say back then, the easiest way for you to marry the person of your choice
was effectively to rape them because that sets the emotion, you being able to marry them
in the same way Islam, when we're reading these passages from the Qur'an, we can't just assume
like, oh, this bit is just a story from here or whatever.
Because the actual deduction of what Islam is and how it manifests comes off the pages
of these verses, right?
That's why when I just read Surah Ad-Dobah, David could read that and think, OK, that's
not so bad.
It's kind of cussing out the Jews and Christians for not thinking it.
And the fighting is just pertaining to a certain historical context.
But the Taliban or Boko Haram are using that verse today to implement their means to an
end.
They think that verse is as timeless today as it was when it was first uttered by Wilson
Mohamed.
So yeah, it's just kind of like the institutions that they've codified through these kind of
things that we're reading.
But yeah, the one that you said is just harsh.
I, yeah, and I fully agree.
And when I say that, like, great that it didn't actually happen is, I mean, of course there's
a lot of bloodshed in history.
But that doesn't, like, that's not a accepted opinion.
Like, within Christianity, like within the Christian, the church that I was part of,
they thought Noah's Ark was real.
Like, they thought it was all like a worldwide flood for a year.
So, like, they still consider it real.
And that's, that's the issue is like, no, a lot of these, you know, people consider these
things to be from God, divine, inspired.
And, and, and we will get into this a little bit.
But, you know, I'm interviewing Dr. Josh for kind of a patron, patron video and, and
a documentary.
And, and I said to him, you know, he, I said, you know, what was some, what are some questions
I can ask?
And he said, I, it'd be really good to talk about the consequences of him writing his
book.
And I said, what do you mean?
And he said, well, he's written a book on slavery.
And he said, well, the problem is, is there is like overwhelming, like it is like everyone
in academia knows that the Bible has slavery in it, sex slavery, really hard, chattel slavery,
horrible slavery, like just, just as bad, if not worse than.
Then the slave trade.
It's there.
It's all there.
And he said that once he convinces people that it actually is there, because a lot of people
will trust what apologists are saying, who try to water it all down.
Once they realize that it actually is there, they are then now some of them are now going,
okay, well, if the Word of God says it's there, then that therefore it's justified.
And they're now arguing for like the other theocracies, where we bring back things like
slavery and things like, well, okay, well, it's in the Word of God, we must be following
the Word of God.
So, and it's just like, he's like, actually being concerned about the harm that he may
have done by pointing out that the Bible actually endorses slavery.
Because people are going, okay, well, I can't, I can't reject the Word of God.
Like, so therefore, I have to follow it.
So, yeah.
That's wild.
I didn't, I did not know there were any pockets of society that would, you know, kind of
lean that way just by hearing that as a, as a point of argument.
Wow.
That, that is very worrying indeed.
Um, yeah, it is.
And the last one, uh, Quran 2, 191, and the video is 20.
Did you say 2191, David?
Uh, yeah, 2191.
The Surah of the cow, one of, one of the longest Suhras in the Quran.
Oh, wow.
Okay.
We're going to go toe to toe with this one.
Mine's, mine's very, mine's very, uh, mine's very, seems very chill, I think.
All right.
I just, I keep going to your verse, but in the Bible.
Okay.
While you find it, I'll read, uh, Bukhara.
This is 2191 and it reads, kill them wherever you encounter them and drive them out from
where they drove you out.
For persecution is more serious than killing.
Do not fight them at the sacred mosque unless they fight you there.
If they do fight you, kill them.
That is what such disbelievers deserve.
Hmm.
Can you give us some context to that?
That sounds quite brutal.
Yeah.
And I mean, a lot of the, uh, you know, again, a lot of the more progressive and I'd say
that, like, there's a lot of Muslims out there who don't do Daniel Kikachu kind of apologetics,
right?
So they would say, look, if you contextualize this and we go into the Tafsir, it is literally
talking about, um, you know, when Muhammad was being heavily persecuted, he was driven
out of Makkah.
And so this is more in a defensive context as opposed to an offensive context.
Um, and again, it's only relevant to what was happening between Muhammad as, you know,
the small following of Muslims he had and the way that he was treated and had to do
the hijra select the migration out of Makkah to Medina.
And he was also persecuted when he went to Da'if as well.
So there's a few instances in the Quran, which talks about the harm that was done to him
by the disbelievers.
So to be fair to the Quran, you can actually contextualize it because as soon as you, you
look at the, you know, the reason for the revelation, it's called as Bab al-Nazul in
Arabic.
Um, that's basically giving you the context of the story and why essentially God revealed
that.
But the reason that it's intellectually dishonest to just take that approach is because the Quran
also says this is your eternal guidance.
You need to look no further than this and the sunnah of the Prophet.
So which is like, that is your eternal timeless perfect example.
And then the Quran also just to add to Terry on top says, um, this book has divided guidance
in it, some parts are, um, like, you know, to be taken literally and others are analogous
like others are analogous.
So it doesn't tell you which is which and how to separate them.
It just leads that leaves that to the reader and it's the reader's prerogative to try and
understand which part of the Quran is completely an allegory.
What's the metaphor?
What's to be taken literally.
And again, you see how much the Quran needs the other literature of Islam to hold itself
up because you can't find the five prayers in the Quran, you know, you can't even find
the five full pillars in Islam or how to go about fulfilling them.
So that's where it's a little caveat.
So even if you take the apologetic, apologetic approach of, you know, context, context, context,
which is the most favorite things that Muslim apologists say, well, then you have to also
agree or concede that the Quran is not timeless and not an eternal example.
And it is very up to the reader.
You can, you can get Winnie the Pooh out of it and you can get Al Qaeda out of it if you
wanted to.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, um, and that's, I guess that's the point.
And that's why, you know, thank Neil deGrasse Tyson that most Muslims are just as hypocritical
as most Christians and don't take their literature as seriously as it demands.
Because otherwise, yeah, we'd have, well, like you said, though, we can, you can get
Winnie the Pooh out of it.
So I guess, you know, there are some parts of it that people can just emphasize more than
others.
But yeah, that is brutal.
And you explained it so well.
And this is one thing that I always like to drive home is like, if you were God, picture
you were God and you had an important message for civilization, it was so important.
It was beyond anything else because it relates to their eternally.
Um, what, like, how would you get that message across?
Like you're all powerful.
Would you write it down in a book to be, you know, would you give words to a prophet that
needed to be written down by someone else and then, um, or interpret it?
That's right.
Right.
Like you interpreted someone else wrote down the words of what the prophet spoke.
Is that right?
Yeah.
He had scribes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then it continued to be, you know, misused and mistranslated throughout the ages.
Or like, I mean, like if I was God, I would just make it so that when every person's born,
they have the entire, um, Quranic values or the entire Bible memorized and part of their
brain.
Like the same way I know that like food is like, like hot plate is hot and burns skin
and don't like that.
I should be able to have that embedded on me.
Like if I know all of the Quran or I know all of the Bible or I know that's how I would
do it.
That's an important message.
Or I would just come down and say, Hey, I'm God.
Like you can, you have a choice to accept me or reject me.
And if you reject me, you're going to hell.
I mean, that would at least make sense.
Um, none of this makes sense.
Yeah, exactly.
That's also really fun as well.
Cause Christianity, you can find Jesus and you know, you can, you can, you can get salvation
that way.
But it goes like, like Hitchens always says it makes such a grand claims for itself.
Right.
So it says everybody is naturally your innate being is naturally your in your.
Your, your, your natural disposition is to be a Muslim.
So yeah, David, you were born Muslim and didn't even know it.
Uh, wow.
Okay.
Well, good.
So I'm going to paradise or whatever.
Cool.
No, cause you didn't, you didn't.
Now you've heard about the message and you're still.
Uh, so you shouldn't tell anyone about the message.
Exactly.
Keep your mouth shut.
It's actually, I do want to touch on that before I read my verse is like, like the,
the, the idea that children go to heaven is like a lot of people accept that, but the
problem is, is like, well, the logical extension of that is if, if a child dies before the
age of accountability, um, and they go to heaven, like guaranteed, then they've got
a hundred percent chance of going to heaven.
But if you let them get past the age of accountability, doesn't matter what any, any
number that you, it doesn't matter what the chances are of them going to heaven.
If they remain faithful the rest of their life, it's still less than a hundred percent
chance.
And as a result, you're still adding to the chance of them going to hell.
And there's a woman who took this very seriously and drowned her four kids in the
bathtub.
Um, because she was so scared.
She was like, I'm willing to sacrifice my salvation and murder them.
And like, um, so that I know that they'll be in heaven because she couldn't deal with
the idea that it'll be polluted by the world.
Now she was clinically in, I think she was clinically insane.
Um, but it was, it was logically consistent.
Like, and that's the problem I think with, um, with, uh, this Christian doctrine.
Anyway, the verse, um, Leviticus 20 verse 10, if a man commits adultery with another
man's wife and the wife, um, with the wife of his neighbor, both the adulterer and
the adulteress must be put to death.
Cool.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Adultery death.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Same thing over here.
It's just, uh, I don't know.
I chat to you, but he equated, uh, the Quranic language and nonbelievers to adultery.
But yeah, probably.
I think it's, I think it's the being put to death thing.
It's like the, it's a, well, it's, this is under the category of capital punishment.
So there are, there are capital punishments for both, um, uh, I guess not being a Muslim
and for, um, disbelief.
Yes.
And for committing adultery.
Uh, that was also like such an extension of thou shall not covet my neighbor's wife.
Wasn't it?
Yeah.
Um, there's also, there's also like, I've got this little like note here and I was
like, I'm just like, I wonder what that said and said, if a man lies with a man as a, um,
as one lies with a woman, both have been done.
What is detestable?
They must be put to death.
And the blood will be on their own hands, our heads.
Yeah.
And then we have the whole lot story to cement that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This is wild.
Like if a man marries both a woman and her mother, it is wicked.
Both he and, and they must be burned in the fire so that no wickedness will be among you.
Was that a common practice?
If a man and has sexual relations with an animal, he must be put to death and you must
kill the animal.
What did the animal do?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
We have that exact prescription Islam as well.
The animal must die.
Oh, it's so bizarre.
Yeah.
Oh, that's so bizarre.
So, so again, if you consider that all these, like if you just go, yep, the Bible and the
Quran say these things, therefore they're moral, then nothing we say will be of concern
to you.
But if you have, you know, intuitions that go, hmm, maybe slavery isn't okay.
Maybe like killing our believers isn't okay.
Maybe like stoning to death for things like, you know, what we've mentioned isn't okay.
Then maybe this is something to look at and look at your holy scriptures and, and, and
yeah, dig into, dig into them a little more.
And there's of course, there's so much other problems in the Quran.
And one of the things that you talk about a lot is veiling.
You had a debate with someone about veiling.
Could you touch a little bit about some of the like real world implications of that at
the moment?
Yeah, yeah, sure.
And David, just on your last point as well, what we essentially like the major ethical
dilemma or issues that we're highlighting here as well is the whole concept of a disproportionate
punishment, right?
For, I mean, something like adultery or whatever.
But again, we've come to such a point now where it's, it's morally wrong, but we don't
treat it as a crime that requires that level of punishment.
And, you know, we understand now how deterrents work or don't work and how the effect of this
capital punishment and things like that.
But again, it's the, it's the disproportionate, disproportionate kind of punishments and also
holistically like disbelievers not believing in this one God and this one lifetime will
be punished eternally.
So there's also that aspect to it as well, which, which we see as a common theme in both.
So ethically, you have those questions to argue as well that why is God giving people,
if legal jurists understand proportionality, why does this, you know, supreme being not?
How is that fair?
But yeah, on your point about veiling.
So again, the way that it manifests according to the mainstream interpretation of veiling
how it's mandated in the Quran.
If you look at most Islamic countries around the world, there's, there's different styles
of how you veiled, but you know, you can see pretty much everything from the entire
like black kind of draped a buyer and then it can have like the, the Jill Barve style
where everything is covered and just the eyes are left uncovered in Saudi as well.
You see them wearing gloves and in other Gulf countries in, in Afghanistan, there's kind
of like the whole Jader thing, which is like an entire face covering.
And that's kind of, it's more blue.
They don't follow the black Arabic like God that, you know, they have.
So it manifests differently.
But as you can see with every country where Islam is the, you know, the kind of state
authority, the way they implement veiling is exactly what kind of mainstream Islam tells
you that God, your honor, protect your chastity, hide your beauty.
You know, it's kind of like that Christian aspect of, you know, how even in the Victorian
times, David, it was like be seen and not heard.
Islam is not be seen and don't be heard.
So you can tell obviously what's been happening in countries like Afghanistan since the Taliban
have taken over, they've gone and like beheaded all literal mannequins that were in shops
even just like selling women's clothes.
Because that's how much they want to raise women from society.
They changed the name of the ministry of women to the ministry of vice and virtue.
They put down all of the posters that were around like advertising spas and salons.
You know, you just have like a beauty model or like an actress there would like, they
could not have a single like, like any facet of a woman being shown publicly in society.
They've, they've done everything in their power to remove it.
They force women to stay home, stay covered up.
So essentially you are now only allowed to go and get like essentials or literally like
from your house to the grocery store.
And even then you need the permission of like a male in your family.
And if you catch the Taliban on a bad day, you have no idea what they're going to do to you.
And similarly in Iran, where you see like these insane like country wide protests erupting
on the back of Masa Amini's tragic death.
She was a 22 year old Kurdish woman.
She went to Tehran to, you know, go and visit the city, a city within her own country.
For the first time she had like left and wanted to be a tourist.
So she was showing two strands like literally our first two strands of hair were just kind of,
you know, being shown through the veil that she had on.
Which again, by the way, in most countries, like I grew up in Saudi Arabia and Dubai,
even Emirati and Saudi women sometimes, you know, it's quite loose on your head.
And you're not going to, you don't anticipate that the religious police or anyone,
only if it's like, you know, very inappropriate according to their standards.
Do they kind of rebuke you?
But in Masa Amini's case, they took it way too far.
And they essentially really messed with evidence and CCTV footage
and essentially beat this woman to a pulp to the point where
she was just able to be transferred to a hospital, but she died there.
They drawn from her injuries.
And she set this like wave in motion of, you know, it was as iconic as like,
like the man who didn't give the Nazi salute or like,
remember that, that Buddhist monk burning himself alive.
Like those kind of iconic, like the just the repercussions that it had.
So it was, it was women and then it was, she came from like the Kurdish area as well.
So they've got their own kind of separatists fight with Iran as well in the state of Iran.
So it had even more like fervor and kind of emotion driven behind it.
And then when people were protesting the way that the state reacted to all of these women who were like,
they had a white Wednesday protests and things like that,
which is when they would actually take off their hijabs and wave it on a stick.
So there's all this rhetoric about down with the Mullahs.
But instead of it being just like, this is, we want like a regime change.
This is actually now them saying like, this is the Islamic state.
This is an Islamic state in power.
These are these mandatory rulings about you taking over our agency,
dictating to us what we should do.
You can't dance in the streets.
We can't sing.
You know, you're getting killed.
You're getting like dishonor killed for TikTok videos and things like that.
They are taking girls as young as 14 who were protesting and they dragged them into a station.
The next thing you hear is their raped battered bruised.
And, you know, this is just what we can get from what we're hearing out of Iran.
You don't see the media speak about it very much.
I'm sure it's not kind of...
I haven't seen the media cover it in a good couple of weeks anyway.
But yeah, there's a huge ongoing kind of tussle in Iran at the moment.
According to a quick Google search, so from VAO News,
Iran security forces have killed at least 537 people in a crackdown protest that erupted in September.
Yeah, and the people in prison that have like disappeared as well
is over the 5,000 mark last time I checked.
And that was a couple of weeks ago.
Yeah, 522 have died in Iran protests.
Yeah.
And the thing is here in Iran, what we're seeing now, it's become more than just like...
So it is like a woman's led revolution, I would say.
But more than that, it's like because of the power of social media,
they're not as easily able to silence these voices anymore
because like the younger generation are very astute when it comes to using social media.
And it's like across all like segments of society,
they are mobilizing to show that disenfranchisement with the state.
So it's not just like it's confined to just women, it's like elderly, like kids, teenagers, young professionals,
everyone are coming together and that's including male allies.
So yeah, I would definitely say if there's anything you could do to support the movement that is taking hold in Iran,
then please do.
There have been protests worldwide in some in Australia.
Yeah.
I think that I'm going to have to focus some more attention on this because yeah, this is tragic.
I might have to have some others on the podcast and talk about this.
There's a Wikipedia page here.
That's during the Masa Amini protests and then it just lists every single person.
You know, gunshot wound was fairly wounded.
Gunshot wound headshot and like goes right down killed by two killed by two shots in the neck.
Gunshot wound like and this goes this list goes right down to 417.
So I guess is that these are the ones that have been verified because it's got names.
Yeah, that's that's absolutely brutal.
It's it's it's it's weird to me that you have this.
You have people that want to live a certain way and the government is like, Nope.
Like you you don't like we're going to inflict religious laws on you but like it's like doesn't that like defeat the entire purpose of religion like isn't religion supposed to be like a personal commitment rather than like something that's forced upon.
Or is that is the perspective that like.
I don't know is that perspective that like you're corrupting by unveiling you're corrupting everyone else around around.
I mean the thing is with Islam is when Islam is in like power in terms of like on a state level.
The difference I have with and this is why I'm not really for Islam reforming per se is because it's not just something you can you can put aside as like something personal.
This is between you and your God or whether you're praying five times a day at home and how you choose to express yourself as a Muslim woman.
You have every single right to do that in a liberal progressive country.
Sure, and nobody you know there is like a lot of Muslims also hide behind that and say you have no right to tell it somebody else whether they're Muslim or not or how Muslim they are.
But when it comes to Islam being in power Islam is a lot more than just a religion anyway because of the totalitarian aspect.
It's a legal system.
It's a political system.
It's a banking system.
It's a personal hygiene system.
It's a relationship harmony.
You know whatever keeping system which is absolutely not but this is how it presents itself in every aspect of your life.
It will be governed by Islam.
So you can only imagine when that's implemented on a state level.
If the if the book itself is saying to you, you know, forsake them in their beds and then beat them, the the heads of power, essentially all men because women aren't even allowed in those positions of power in an Islamic state de facto
are going to take the most misogynistic and like, you know, kind of literal interpretations of that, especially when it's to their benefits.
So if you can control women and you can, you know, you can determine their movements and you can keep them locked up and you're not worried about their sexual promiscuity or them getting a bit too educated to understand what abuse is to be financially independent.
Then technically what they've got according to Islam is a perfect system to keep Islam expanding.
So your women are going to stay home.
They're going to raise children.
They're going to just keep having more children.
Your sons are going to be given the preference, right?
So if you look at what's happened in Iran, if you look at Afghanistan, every single position of power is held by a man.
So the first thing they do, even when the Taliban took power was women judges, David, that had worked so hard to push legislation towards actually locking up the perpetrators of abuse that was not initially recognized, you know, with the previous
Taliban government, things were starting to change.
And the first thing when the Taliban came to power was find all of those women judges, all of those women lawyers, all of those women who kind of embedded in actual fundamental society and blackmailed them, killed them, threatened them, threatened their families and just essentially took women out of the picture.
There's a really famous video where I think an American journalist or somebody is asking a Taliban, one of the guys in government, what he thinks about women being educated or in a position of government.
And he thought it was a joke.
Like he literally laughed.
He laughed jovially thinking, oh, she's made a really funny joke.
Like women in power, like in government.
Like he could not use it.
It's like literally a joke on Borat, like when Borat would go and interview and someone say like, I'm waiting for the, like I'm waiting for the reportage and then it'd be like a lady reporter and he'd be like, oh, are you a reporter?
No way.
We don't allow that in Kazakhstan.
It's a, it's a little bit of a joke.
And it's like a reality.
That's crazy.
Oh, um.
Oh, Derek is in the chat as well.
Derek is in the chat.
Hey, Derek.
It's awesome to see you.
And it's so good to see you.
Derek's an absolute legend.
Derek is a legend.
Oh, so good.
Yes.
So there's actually one thing I did want to touch on before we like kind of wrap up.
And that is like you.
So I, how can I say this?
So I, you know, the, I've had trans folks on the show and one thing that I noticed is
they always have to justify their existence all the fucking time.
Like if they're like, they have to like get into conversations with people about what
gender is, what sex is, and they have to like consistently justify their existence.
So that's like one thing that I've really picked up.
The one thing that I really picked up with your story is how offensive it is to so many
Muslims.
And you can see that because the short that I produced for you has 13,000 views.
And the comments in this, this, so I try to be pretty cordial on, on deep drinks.
I, but I kind of like cracked the shits a little bit.
And I just started like roasting everyone in the, in the comments because it was just
so, so disgusting.
So I want to just quickly show the clip.
It goes for a minute.
It's your story.
You said this, you told this last time on deep drinks, but then I want to go through some
of the comments and kind of talk about what people say.
Okay.
Living the UAE, I was married Islamically.
So by default, women are not given the right to divorce in Islam.
Very quickly, the marriage fell apart.
It just, there was like a lot of abuse there.
When this police officer in the UAE called me up and said, we've got this order for
thousands on you.
And I was like, sorry, I have no idea what you're on about, mate.
He basically said, like, you need to go back to your husband's house and return there.
And you cannot leave without his permission.
If you don't go back by this time and date, we will arrest you and forcibly take you back.
They came to my house as well.
They tried to catch me there and try to take me again in the middle of the night.
And when it got very, very serious, I had to call the emergency number for British expats
in Dubai because I was like, these people aren't ensuring my safety to go to like Islamic
marriage counseling before you can get a divorce.
And he would say things like she's possessed with like, there's like a gin inside me.
A gin is like an Islamic female.
The counselor would say like, how many times a day do you pray?
Were they court appointed marriage counselors that you have to go through?
Yes, official ones.
Yes.
I was living.
So powerful story.
I was sick as well, David.
Thank you.
That's what I do for a job now.
I can see why.
So the comments here and oh boy, why are you cutting the video up?
This interview was embarrassing to watch with a blatant misrepresentation.
As a Muslim, I'm shocked this girl is a good actress.
The biggest lie I've heard that the UAE has nothing to do with Islam.
If you genuinely feel sympathy for this woman, research her first statement.
Such a sad story.
Think of the millions.
Okay, that's a good one.
This is misleading women in Islam.
Do have the right to divorce.
W for that man.
See, she is such a liar and the Oscar goes to she's wrong on so many levels.
This is nice comment from you.
This is for David.
But like this is like, you have to consider like this is what like I was getting pissed
off because it was like ruining my good time every time I jump on YouTube.
This isn't even me.
It's like, it's you.
It's your friend.
And it's like, it was really bothering me.
You can see me just like in the comments here.
Just, um, yeah, I feel like I wasted his time with her mindset.
Like this is, uh, if she's not in Bollywood, she was soon with the color of acting.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
So, I mean, it's just, it's just, um, it's just ridiculous.
The thing that everyone seemed to harp on about is, um, is they'll say that you're
lying.
Um, and I'm like, I don't know how.
And one of the things I noticed is when I type in Nuria Khan on YouTube, the first
auto suggestion is exposed.
Desperate people are desperate to see you debunked or Nuria Khan debunked exposed.
And I'm like, this is her personal story.
Like what, what part of it, what part do you disagree with?
And then people argue with a few people and say, well, you can't, women do have the right
to divorce in Islam.
And I was like, okay, like maybe on like some like, like fantasy land you have, but I looked
into the laws and I was like, okay, it says here specifically that they must go before
a court, but then.
And this is what you explained to me, but they trust the man's opinion.
The man, they trust the man over the woman.
So unless you're coming in with like black eyes and like bloody nose and like, you know,
obviously being mistreated, they'll trust the man's, uh, because we're not allowed to
be trusted.
And that's what happened with you.
Right.
So like you wanted to get divorced.
You went to the course.
You did everything you could and you couldn't get a divorce because your husband at the
time slide.
Is that right?
Yeah.
I also, I'm really glad you brought this up because this is a great point to clarify
a little bit.
Also David side note, I think if you find any of the kind of major ex-Muslim activists
on YouTube type in their name, the first single camp is exposed.
They are about to get all like debunked or like destroyed.
Those are the famous words.
Exposed.
Destroyed.
Yeah.
The thumbnails are out of this world.
Oh my gosh.
It's like fire.
There's like laughy emojis like all happening.
Um, but yeah, no, I wanted to.
I saw a lot of these, um, comments as well.
So obviously I've pinned this beautifully edited videos of yours to my Twitter.
And I think it's got, I mean, it's got incredible amount of views by this point.
And obviously people just continuously comment.
I'm just trying to see how many people have seen it now.
Uh, so 122 K.
People have seen it.
That's cool.
Yeah.
And then I was looking at the comments again, because I think I was keeping up with this
one as opposed to YouTube.
But the one thing again, and I usually do go in and respond, but sometimes when it's
just the same like line, you're repeating over and over again, either you don't know
your religion or you're making a mug out of me and telling me that what I experienced
really did not happen.
But Islamically speaking, uh, by just the, the, the literature that we have, a woman
cannot just ask for divorce in the same way that a husband can.
So in Islam, a man has the unilateral right to divorce.
The Quran talks about how a man can divorce his wife.
There's a procedure.
Then there's the concept of how you get your wife back.
If you divorce her and you want her back, this is all pertaining to a man.
I think there's like something like three conditions that you can, um, like, uh, like,
like go and move away from your husband or your relationship is effectively rendered,
uh, like dissolved if he, and it's again, it's so old school.
Like, you know, they're talking about somebody going off to fight war because it's like,
if you haven't heard from him in two years, like essentially that's considered desertion.
Um, and I think there's one or two more, but none of those give women the right to get
a divorce.
That's why countries like Pakistan, countries like Tunisia, countries like, I'm not Egypt,
but all of these countries had to essentially, uh, get an Islamic council to sit over the
years and decide that right.
We need to have an option because women are coming out from all across the Islamic world
saying how like this is not possible.
That's when this concept of Hula, which is essentially what you read about where a woman
can approach the court and initiate a divorce.
Again, like you said, the conditions and terms that come with that are very severe.
That's what I was explaining in my video to you, right?
You've got to meet a certain threshold of what they consider or deem effective for you to
get a divorce.
So are you being abused emotionally?
If they don't know what it is, it's not grounds for divorce.
Are you being abused financially?
They don't know what it is.
Your husband's supposed to pay for your makeup and that's it.
Shut up.
So the Hula concept that I'm talking about, a lot of these Muslim apologists are coming
into the comments and saying you can get a divorce in Islam.
Yes, you can now.
Now because countries have implemented a concept called Hula.
That's why now in Pakistan, when you sign the marriage contract by default to change
the way that society operates and like the violence that was being perpetuated against
women, they added that clause in.
And now even to this day, the Islamic cleric who's getting the married automatically crosses
it out.
So families have to check to see if the Imam what crossed it out.
So like what I do videos in Urdu with Dr.
Mediha, we're trying to tell Muslim women in Pakistan, know your rights on the marriage
contract and make sure that that's not scribbled out.
In my case, I was the first daughter to get married to my family and we don't speak Arabic
and my parents didn't have it the foggiest that there was no concept of like no divorce
in Islam.
Obviously, we were taught fluffy Islam, lived in the UK, not really, you know, didn't know
the ins and outs.
So they didn't ask for it to be in my marriage contract in the UAE.
So if it wasn't there, it wasn't an option.
Thankfully, you have Hula to fall back on now.
And again, some places don't recognize Hula.
So when David, when you do hear that in Islam, you're allowed to get divorced, just please
bear in mind that what they're telling you is factually correct now, but it's not factually
correct from the sources of Islam as we know them.
There was a consensus.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And so it's like, it's one of those things where like it's typical, like, it's like semantic
games that these that apologists and people who are, you know, but heard about their religion
will do.
They play these like semantic games when reality, reality is like, well, you try to get a divorce
and you couldn't.
So like, you didn't have the right.
Like you didn't have the ability to do that.
Like, it's, yeah, it's just, it's just so, I just wish, you know, I've said this multiple
times, but Islam has to be the most sensitive religion on earth.
And that to me isn't a, that isn't a win.
That isn't like, they get so angry if you, if anyone insults the prophet, they get so
angry if you criticize Islam, they, I've had people on my discord say that they're sticking
up for Andrew Tate and saying he didn't rape those women and then when we push this person,
like, well, you know, this is what the, this is what he said publicly.
This is what the court docs or this is what the court docs say.
This is what everything they'll say.
Well, I stick by him because he's a Muslim and Muslims stick by to them.
Like that is so, I was going to use some portraits of words there, but that is so dumb.
Like that is the dumbest.
Like, it's, it's again, the most sensitive religion in the world, like they can't handle
and that to me, it's just like, it shows the falsehood of the whole thing.
If, if you need apologists to explain things away, the religion probably isn't accurate representation
of the world.
If you need apologists, or if you get so angry when someone criticizes something.
Yeah, I had someone in those comments say, I think they were talking,
I don't know how it got onto this, but they said, you know, what do you expect my,
what if my child does something bad and they just spit in my face and I'm not supposed to hit them?
And I said, yes, you're not supposed to hit them.
Like that's, you're correct there.
Yes.
Like that's that, you know, we don't know how we got onto beating children.
But yeah, I think we'll talk about the Quran.
But yeah, it's just go through that video and just see like all the stuff.
It's just, it's just nuts.
But again, I thank you for sharing your story.
It took a lot of guts and what you do is so important.
And, and I look forward to, to kind of seeing where your journalism and your like stuff goes in the future,
because it's just again, so, so, so important.
And yeah, you're always welcome on deep drinks for sure.
Thank you, David.
Again, it was an absolute pleasure talking to you.
Time flies as always.
And always fun getting a deep drinks and bite, because you know, you can, you can let loose as well.
Like a free flowing good stimulating chat.
I love it.
And I've got a few, I've got a few super chats before we let it before we go.
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
We've got two pounds from ultra G fire block.
I don't know what that means.
You just got to say G block.
G G G block.
I was going to come on with Australian slang for you.
Hey, next time.
Yeah.
By the way, David, you're not seeing anything.
Don't worry.
Okay.
Don't be afraid.
Hashtag David McDonald saying G block is is toothy is what garlic is to a vampire.
Say it loud.
Say it proud.
G block.
Get them near you.
Holy humanist.
Thank you.
Thank you for all the super chats.
Two pounds, five pounds, two pounds.
That's awesome.
D, thank you for the huge super chat.
Love your notes, David.
I get all my religious books used on Amazon and other people's notes are fascinating.
They'd be, it'd be really cool to see some of those notes.
We should do like a collaboration and do like a blog post or something.
This isn't a super chat, but then you said have a mini.
No, no, no, no, I'll be on.
Sorry.
Yes.
And yes, I'll reach out.
I'm going to do that.
Yes.
You need to deep dive with him about, you know, that loophole you're talking about, about
bypassing hell.
I'm in a Barbie story actually really encompasses that where he legit tried to, to do that.
So definitely one.
I don't want to, I don't want to speak for him.
I reached out to him back when we had like 10 episodes out, I think, and he was so gracious
to say, yeah, like I'm just busy, but reach out to me in a month.
And I forgot to reach out to him or something changed.
And yeah, I definitely want to because I'm incredible story.
I've heard only parts of it, but I want to get the deeper dive.
And my vision podcast.
Here's some love for ex-Muslims and freedom from religion.
Love, Nuria and David.
Hey, Derek.
Thank you.
So many times he'll, he'll, he'll message me and say like something like ask a question,
but it's always when he's having a bath for some reason.
Cause he must be thinking.
And so I'll voice call him and then he'll answer.
Like we become bros at the stage and like, so he'll be in the bath and I'll be talking
to him and he's in the bath and we're like voice, voice calling.
And it's, it's so weird.
I love Derek.
I'll get in my bath and we can just like, and then like the other day I was like, I heard
this like, um, I heard Ryan's voice.
It's like, it's right in the bath with you.
And he's like, yeah, I'm like, this is so weird.
This feels very intimate.
Like you guys are having a bath together and I'm talking to you about stuff.
I was like, yeah, it's fine.
I'm like, oh, this is, this is fun.
Yeah, you're in deep David.
Yeah, that's it.
So, um, guys, lastly go check out, um, uh, holy humanists, um, on YouTube, awesome stuff,
awesome, awesome stuff.
Um, make sure you check it out.
Um, and go, go subscribe.
And if you go over there, maybe I don't know, like if you, if you chuck an emoji in the
chat, like if you haven't subscribed to Nuri before, what's, what should be my emoji?
If you put like a whiskey glass in the, in, in the comments, Nuri will know it's, uh,
you've come from, um, deep drinks.
Um, and we have some, we have some awesome episodes coming from deep drinks.
We have the book of slavery and genocide.
Tell me this isn't the best clickbait ever.
Cause it's, it's actually about his book, but it's, I'm clever.
I'm very clever.
And, uh, we have a panel on creation myths and the Hebrew Bible, which will be really
cool with apology.
Dr. Kip and Dr. Josh.
Uh, we have Dr. Robin Welsh coming on, talking about her book.
I'm at early Christianity's literature, which was really, really, really cool.
Uh, and we have the illustrious Matt De La Hunty coming on, which will be super awesome.
He played probably the biggest role in my deconstruction.
So, um, yeah, it's going to be, it's going to be great.
So,
So you get to a point where you're, you're calling somebody onto your channel that
wants you to watch their videos and they were like on tangling your, your neurons to
make you think the way you do.
Yeah.
Mentor.
It's like, I always have this test.
I always ask myself like, who would I want to have lunch with for two hours?
And it's, it's changed from everyone, from, um, Richard Dawkins to, uh, Trey Parker, the
creator of Matt, uh, creator of South Park to, um, oh God, who else has been, there's
a list of, there's people that, depending on where I'm at, um, um, Edmund McMillan, his
video game creator, there's people I've always like, who would I want to have a two hour
lunch with?
Matt De La Hunty was on there for a long time.
So it's, uh, it's going to be a dream come true to be able to sit down and, um, chat with
him over an iced tea, uh, which is the drink he's chosen.
So it'll be really good.
Brilliant.
I've said, I've got my inspiration for your videos.
So yeah.
Awesome.
Cool.
Well, thank you.
Thank you everyone for coming out.
Thank you, Nuri for coming on and we'll see everyone later.
Bye.
