Perspectives can be gained by situating the life of Jesus of Nazareth in the turbulent
troubles of 1st century Palestine. My guest today has done that in his new book, Jesus A Life in Class Conflict.
Dr. Robert J. Miles is a New Testament scholar from Ontario, New Zealand. He's currently
the Senior Lecturer in New Testament and Director of Research at Walston Theological
College, a college of the University of Divinity. Prior to this, he lectured full time at the
University of Auckland and Murdoch University. His writing focuses on the historical formation
of the early Jesus' movement and the socio-economical realities of 1st century Palestine.
He has published widely on historical Jesus' studies, Gospel studies, particularly Matthew,
and the ideological context of contemporary New Testament scholarship. It is my honour to welcome
Dr. Robert Miles to Deep Drinks podcast. Thank you for coming on.
Thank you for having me. It's such a privilege to be here.
Well, I think it's a privilege for you to be on, especially because of the drink that you chose,
and I have a confession to make before we announce that, and that is most of my drink
has sadly deceased, has sadly evaporated since going on the shelf of my whiskey collection.
I had to have a taste before I bought it a couple of weeks ago, and yeah, what are we drinking today?
Today, David, I'm sharing with you the Gospel.
The Gospel. It's a Melbourne-based whiskey from this Brewed Melbourne Australia.
It's absolutely delicious. It's a rye-based whiskey.
I, with this one, normally I drink my whiskey neat, but with this one, I tend to have it on ice.
Yeah, I got some ice because... Yeah, it just takes the edge off a little bit.
Sometimes the ice and water can actually expand the flavours, so I got mine ready as well.
And I was just saying that I got Dungeons and Dragons after this, which is a great way to
start an academic conversation. I played Dungeons and Dragons with some friends online,
and my character is a drunken dwarf, and I like to method acts whenever I can.
So I'm looking forward to doing that after seeing my whiskey.
I just, just when I took a sip of that, do you know the Simpsons? And when Barney,
when Barney and Homer are going to space, and like Barney, their training, and Barney
takes a sip, one sip of the drink, and then he goes, it begooms. I just had that exact feeling
when I just took a sip of that. It was so delicious.
It truly is. Hey, Pragmatic Crystal, it's nice to see you up at this time.
We won't probably get a lot of live viewers because this is an Australian time zone tonight.
Everyone's probably asleep, but I'm sure everyone will watch it later.
So one thing I wanted to quickly touch on before we get into your scholarship is you
kind of mention that you're from, you use the Aboriginal naming of the reach that you're currently
in. And I think that was so cool. Like you put, like you're currently in Perth, Australia,
but you say that you're in the, and I don't, can you pronounce it for me, Wajak Nunga?
Wajak Nunga. So I'm in the Wajak area, or the Wajak clan of the Nunga nation.
So, you know, Australia prior to colonization, European colonization,
there are a number of Aboriginal nations, distinct Aboriginal nations with their own
language groups and so on. And where I am, which is now known as Perth in Western Australia,
and down the kind of the south, the southwest coast, this was Nunga country originally.
I mean, it still is arguably because sovereignty of the land was never ceded.
It was taken. So, you know, I think it's important to just sort of acknowledge that.
100%. And there's something that I realized for myself. I'm born in Australia.
You know, I grew up in Australia, and I know more about the Middle East and the gods there
that I know about any of the Aboriginal gods. I know more about the culture of Detroit
that I know about, I've never been to Detroit, but just somewhere in the United States than
anywhere in Australia. And it was, to me, I kind of realized, wow, that's a problem.
Not only because the Aboriginal culture is massive and huge and diverse and all those things,
but it's the oldest living culture in existence. Aboriginal Australians have been here for at
least 40,000 to 50,000 years. Yeah, as a continuous culture, absolutely. It's phenomenal. Yeah,
and so as you, I think you said I was from Ontario, New Zealand. Yeah, in the introduction, but
maybe you misread Aotearoa, which is the Maori name, but you're from Ontario. Sorry.
I'm from New Zealand originally, or from Aotearoa, and I grew up there, and you know,
we got a lot of, learned a lot about the Maori Indigenous culture and history there.
And then I moved to Australia for work, actually, about six years ago, six and a
half years ago for a job at Murdoch University. So is everyone. So is the whole New Zealanders.
Yeah, well, yeah, yeah. Economic reasons. We're going to talk a bit more about economic driving
factors sooner or later, but yeah, and in that time, I've realized that I just don't know enough
about Aboriginal culture and history and kind of the specific aspects of that, which are distinct
from New Zealand's own colonial history and Indigenous histories. So I'm on my own sort of
journey to learn about and listen to what I can in that area. I think it's quite topical.
It's always topical, but it's particularly topical at the moment, because you obviously will have
heard about the voice to Parliament that there's going to be a referendum in Australia
later this year, which asks the question as to whether Aboriginal people should,
there should be a representative body that government needs to go to, to consult, not
necessarily to have, you know, this body won't have any kind of actual power, but is just a
consultative body that the government needs to consult if it's to make laws that will affect
Aboriginal people. And this is actually quite contentious. I can't imagine anyone having an
issue with that, but apparently. And yet, in the media landscape, we see that this is a contentious
issue, and it's surprising. And I think, you know, I think, as I've lived here for six years now,
I realize my own ignorance about a lot of the stuff. And so I want to, to learn more and to
listen as well. Well, well, I think that and the reason I kind of brought this up is because I had
the kind of same realization. And we just had, we have a beautiful baby boy, we did IVF and had
him 12 weeks ago tomorrow or the next day, actually, day to birth. Geez, that's bad. But anyway,
the point is, he's only young. And one of the first things we bought for his room was this map
that I found. And it was because I realized I didn't know anything about Australia. So this
I'm just going to show it here. So it's a map of Australia, but it has the first nations of Australia.
So if you, if I zoom in, it's like a Lord of the Rings style or something. Yeah. So the guy who
created it, he actually spent a year doing the research and, and like, you can, you can zoom
right in to see the good big gubby gubby gubby or gubby gubby outreach. And that's where I'm in
Root Shore. And I think, yeah, it's really cool. Like, and over here, yeah, you just got all these
different, different, like, if you go, if you can go down, you'll see, I think I found it earlier
today. It's, uh, nope, that's not it. See, Australia is a big country for anyone. It's massive.
But you're lower. Yeah. Yeah, you're just, yeah, you can see, yeah. So what you can just, I can't
zoom in any further, unfortunately. But, but yeah, that's, that's the area that you're in. But it's
like, to think about like a nation, a group of people, a language, a, a, you know, a, a, a, a,
their own kind of culture within a bit larger culture, each one of these, and I know nothing
about any of them. And it's like, I want to change that. So I hung it on the wall of our, of our
son's room. And it's like, you know, that's like the first step is like, no, we need to kind of
learn about these cultures that we kind of just, that I just don't know anything about. It's a real
shame because it's not just for the kind of, I'll say racist undertones of why we don't learn about
them, but also because it's interesting. And there's so much to learn. And, you know, so I just think
that's, um, it's, uh, I really appreciate that you put that in your, um, and about, and about this
environment, just as a random aside, a related aside, but, um, one of the things that really
interests me about when you look into like Aboriginal history and stuff is how a lot of the
early settlers, colonists who were here and explorers were really reliant upon, um, local
indigenous groups for then like knowledge of the land. So, you know, Western explorers would, would
come here or colonists would come here and not be able to find water. Um, and yet Aboriginal
people would, you know, they could read the landscape and the land and the, and know where,
know how to survive. Um, yeah. And, um, and, you know, Australia is, is such an interesting and
unique environment and it's a harsh environment as well. Um, it's not an easy place to, you know,
if you were stuck in, in, um, in the desert or something like that to actually survive and
sustain yourself. And yet, as you say, you know, Aboriginal people were doing that for like tens
of thousands of years successfully. Um, and it was incredible like knowledge and skill that, um,
was passed down from generation to generation and able to facilitate that.
We, we have something like, no, because I researched this when I was, I used to be a
fundamentalist young earth creationist and I researched this when I was trying to work out,
is it plausible for animals to have hopped, crawled and slithered and rolled all the way
from Mount Ararat and Turkey to Australia? And I found, I did the research, I looked through
textbooks. I mean, there's a funny question to kind of ask, right? But looking back, but, um,
there, I found that I didn't put in birds because birds could fly and I didn't put in fish because
fish could swim, but not, not including those two. There are 19,000 endemic species to Australia,
including plants. And it's just like, whoa, it's like, that's a lot. Like why aren't they anywhere
else? And it's crazy because like a lot of, there's native animals and, and, and flora on the west
side, the western side of Australia, where I am, which, um, you don't find over East, um, where
you are, um, because there's a big desert in the middle, which stuff, you know, so things like
kangaroos you get everywhere, but like koalas are only on the east coast. We don't have them over
here. And then we've got some species that you don't find over there. And particularly the, the
plants as well, uh, this stuff that's just in this region. It's really interesting.
Just so, and, and we will jump off this subject, even though I'm finding,
Yeah, we're going to talk about Jesus.
You've been with the Red Jesus, but I had a young friend come over from Perth, actually,
and she came to Australia Zoo, which is down the road from us and was working there and taking care
of, um, taking care of the koalas. Um, her name's Kennedy and she actually got a tattoo of one of
the koalas that, you know, they, they essentially became humanized because it was never going back
into the wild. It would come up and give her hugs every day and all this kind of stuff.
Yeah. But, um, what's, seriously, what's interesting is in that, in that NOAA video,
I called up one of these nurses. It wasn't Kennedy. It was someone else who worked at Australia Zoo.
And I said, what are the chances of a koala surviving on eucalyptus spray? And they're like,
koalas are so dumb, they will choose to starve in a tree rather than to eat the species or,
type of gum leaf they don't want to eat. Like if they can't find the exact gum leaf at the exact
age of gum leaf, they'll just choose to starve to it. They'll literally just like, I'm not eating
that. And, and so like my, Kennedy would go around with them, these, um, these koalas and they,
they call them, I call it, um, leaf shopping where they, they, someone brings in all these
types of gum leaves, um, different ages, different, um, different, um, cut from different parts of
the tree, higher up and lower up. And they walk around with these injured koalas and they, they
smell the leaves and go, no, I don't want that one. And they go to the next one. No, I don't want
that one. And they're just branches. And they finally find the one they want to go, okay, you
can have this one. Yes. It's like, it's amazing how fragile these things are for how, um, how long
they've survived. Yeah. Fussy, fussy, fussy eaters. So, uh, I guess onto Jesus, uh, what is, so your
book is, um, is fascinating and, and I've, and, uh, like it's, uh, it's deceptively, uh, dense,
like it's, it's got a lot in there. And of course you're the co-author with James Crosley, but,
um, but it's just, it's really dense and it's, uh, there's, there's a lot to unpack there. And
I really wanted to kind of like get to some of this conversation by asking, what is the
materialist, uh, Marxist understanding of Jesus? Like how does it differ from the traditional
perspective? Obviously the traditional perspective being, you know, Jesus was the Son of God's,
like a theological perspective come, you know, but all come down from, you know, the heavens to
save us and, and, and that, and there's also a probably more historical perspective, but
particularly a material Marxist understanding, how does it differ from that?
I think first thing just to clarify that we're, we are engaged in like historical Jesus studies.
So we're bringing a, what we call a historical materialist, um, or as, you know, Marxist approach
to the issue of the historical Jesus. So, um, already, you know, historical Jesus research
is a well-established sub-discipline, um, or area of research where people write about, uh, the,
the human Jesus, um, or the historical figure of Jesus using, uh, uh, the, the methods of,
um, his historical criticism, right? So trying to reconstruct, uh, the, the historical figure who
walked, talked, and, and breathed in first century Palestine. Um, and this has been going on for
hundreds of years. People have been writing about this stuff. Um, um, and it, it tends to
want to bracket out some of the supernatural claims or another way of looking at it is to
look at the, the supernatural claims within their historical context. So, um, to say that Jesus was,
you know, the son of God, well, that's, we can explore that historically. We can say, well,
yeah, there were early Christians who believed that Jesus was the son of God and what did that mean
within, um, first century Palestine? What did that mean within a Jewish context or a
Greco-Roman context and so on and so forth. But, but Jesus, we can't, hysterically, we can't say
Jesus was the son of God. That's a theological question, right? Not a historical question.
I think the question of what that means for us now today is, is a kind of theological question.
Um, um, but, um, you know, the fact that people, uh, believe that he was the son of God,
you can investigate that historically. Do people believe he was the son of God or not?
I would say that they did believe he was the son of God. They, you know, they, they
sincerely and vehemently believe that and then we can, we can explore historically
what they, what they understood by that claim, what they, what they thought it meant within their
context, which may or may not be quite different from how, um, the Christian tradition has gone on
to interpret those sorts of theological claims. Yeah. So that's, that's the first thing. And then
onto the other aspect of your question, the, what about this Marxist bit or the materialist bit?
Well, um, often when, when Marxism, uh, gets mentioned in respect of, um, Jesus and especially
the historical Jesus, it's often, uh, associated with a kind of romanticized lefty Jesus who's a
bit like a, you know, a first century Shagavara, uh, or something like that. And, um, that's,
I mean, I kind of like some of these reconstructions, but they're not always the best, um, you know,
historical, uh, uh, scholarship as it were, um, that they can be quite anachronistic, which means,
you know, they're, they're projecting modern understandings onto the ancient world. And,
you know, that can be fun and interesting, but, um, we're trying to do something different
by, um, Marxism and historical materialism. We basically mean a couple of things. We're
interested in class and class conflict, um, and social and economic factors as the driving force
or the engine of human history of, of, uh, historical change. What brings about change for us? It's
about a class conflict through history. Um, and, um, and I guess the other thing is that we, we
are wanting to understand historical phenomena such as, um, which includes, you know,
religious phenomena. So these religious ideas and, and movements and so on, um, as a product
of the social and economic conditions of their time and place. So, um, everybody, you know,
everybody is, uh, to, to a large extent, you know, like conditioned by the, and a product of
the environment out of which they've emerged, right? Um, um, and ideas and, uh,
ideas kind of don't just fall from heaven as it were, but rather they are generated out of a
real existing material context, whether consciously or not people are always responding to, uh, and
interpreting their material environment, um, uh, and all of the kind of the messiness that, that goes
in with that. So, you know, related to this, there's, there's also another thing that we're
trying to turn on its head, which is the great man view of history. And, uh, historical Jesus
research has typically adopted this great man view of history, which is a really common way of doing
history, which pretty much suggests that, you know, all of history can be summed up by the
innovative genius, um, of singular great men or individuals. They almost always happen to be men.
Through this, but it's, you know, like so-and-so had a great idea or a new innovation. And so he
went in and changed the historical situation all by himself. And, you know, this view of history
has been, um, rightly criticized for a long time now, for centuries now, but, um, it continues to
persist. And, um, we would, we would say in a long line of, of Marxist historians that, um, great men,
um, you know, uh, don't single-handedly change history all by themselves, but rather they are,
um, the products of the social and economic forces that were built both before and during their,
their lifetimes, they may be, you know, they may become prominent and important conduits for,
um, particular movements and ideas, but the idea, but the assumption that, um, historical change
itself happens due to the actions of singular great individuals, uh, we would reject that
assumption, um, this, this unfounded assumption. Um, and so we, we want to very much look in the
case of Jesus at, uh, at what was the, what were some of the material and the economic and, and,
uh, social factors and conflicts at the time that, that he lived, um, that were affecting his life
and other people, um, his, his associates and so on. And how were they interpreting those
realities? How were they responding? Um, often they did so using, uh, religious language, but
they also used, uh, religious language that was coded politically and economically as well.
Yeah. I mean the, the, the, the, um, the beast and revelations on rings of bell when you, when
you say that, um, but the, uh, something, something that I found interesting just recently was, um,
there's a campaign on, on Kickstarter at the moment to try and add, um, like advocate for more
women in public spaces, like women's statues in public places, 1.3% of statues and bridges and
things that are named or show them, show someone. It's a 1.3% of women, unless you include angels
and then it moves up to like 6%, like feminine creatures and things. But yeah, like think about
that. Like think about like how even in today's society, you know, the majority of things are
about these like men that changed history. It's like, well, there are women that changed history
too. It's like, we're all the statues of them and the bridges of them. And that's, that's today.
Think about, you know, going, going right back there. But the thing that I want to touch on
with something that you said is that your book, uh, is like it totally, it's like,
it's opened up a whole new can of worms for me because I was looking at the Jesus
eye concept through a historical lens and lately we've had some debates on this channel about
Jesus mythicism, which, and you know, I'm trying to move away from that because that just seems
to have been full of drama at the moment. But, um, we're just, you know, just looking at Jesus
from a historical perspective, but I never considered putting Jesus in, in his historical
like world. Yeah. Well, yeah. In his historical world, like I, I didn't envision the culture
around him as much as I probably should have to think about that we have this Jesus movement
that is a lot that has gone on for 15, 20 years until the first writings we have about it.
Uh, I watched your, your amazing episode, um, uh, with James on Derek's channel,
MythVision, and Derek kind of brought up the fact that, um, I think he was talking to
Paula Frederickson or one of someone else, so I might, I might be getting the names wrong, but
how they were saying, you know, like Paul's already coming up with excuses for things,
for issues. Yeah, yeah. Well, I haven't been in the 50s and the 50s. Yeah. And that's,
and that's, that's the earliest written, um, material that we have for this early Jesus
movement. Yeah. It's, it's wild. And just think like, what were, you know, what, what were these,
like these, what was it like in Palestine at the time? Or is that the correct terminology,
by the way, first century Palestine or is a different, um, word? Yeah, we can talk about
Palestine as the, as the first century Palestine is that, as what the Romans called it. Yeah.
Okay, cool. Um, yeah. So, so I guess, can you lead us down some of the sociological and historical
context of Palestine? I guess we should do like before, during, and after Jesus's ministry.
Like, is there, is there a story to be told there? Or is it, um, I know that. Yeah, I think,
I think kind of going back to what I said about the great man view or critiquing the great man
view that great men, like say Jesus, um, are about the products of the social conditions built
both before and during their lifetime. So I think we do need to start before, um,
or, and in the book, we, we, we focus on, uh, some of the, the, the things that were happening
in Galilee, which is the region of, of, uh, Palestine that he grew up in, as he was growing
up or slightly before and into his, his childhood. And as he was growing up, um, before, uh,
Herman, his, his compatriots became, um, uh, active as it were, um, um, publicly active.
Um, so, uh, this is such a good whiskey. It really is. Like almost the whole bottle's gone.
Like, I just, it's so good. I'm surprised you just didn't fill it with water or something,
just to prevent it. No, no, no, I just, I, I, I, I might have drunk it all on and told my wife,
sorry, I, I kind of get another one. It's my work, you know, yeah. Um,
you know, um, so, uh, as, um, I mean, yeah, I just thinking where to start. And I think
the most important point to start is that, uh, Palestine in the first century during the time
of Jesus was under the direct or indirect, depending on what part you were looking at,
control of, uh, the Roman Empire. The Roman Empire was the most expansive, um, and successful
political entity in world history to date at that time. It was absolutely huge, uh, comprising
a lot of Europe, you know, reaching into North Africa. Um, and Palestine was in a sense on the
margins of this empire. Um, and it was, uh, being ruled at the time by, uh, kind of puppet kings,
or locally, uh, grown, uh, kings selected from the, the aristocracy. Uh, so Herod the Great,
for example, um, who was in fact, uh, we know from elsewhere was, you know, a friend, a friend to the
Romans. Um, he was well liked by, uh, the Roman powers. And, um, so he was appointed to, to rule
over this, this kingdom of, of, uh, Judea, um, which included most of Palestine. Um, and then he
dies in about four BCE. So, uh, um, we'll get to when Jesus was born, but actually most scholars
think that Jesus was born in about four BCE, not in zero. But, um, you know, there's a bit of a
miscalculation that happened there. But, um, uh, and at that time that Herod the Great, uh, dies,
um, his kingdom is divided, uh, among a number of his, his sons, including another Herod that we
read about in the gospels, Herod Antipas. Um, this is the Herod who is, is in control of Galilee.
The, the region where Jesus is located and grows up. And, um, uh, he's wanting to largely follow in
the footsteps of, of what his father did. Now what did his father do? Herod the Great, he initiated
a number of massive building projects throughout Judea. So he created, uh, he founded a city on
the coast called Caesarea Maritima, which, um, uh, became the capital city of this region and, and
connected, um, the, uh, connected Palestine into, you know, by a sea route into the, uh, uh, the
broader Roman imperial economy. Um, he also built a number of fortresses and, uh, um,
and, um, also initiated, um, the, um, the, uh, this massive refurbishment of the Jewish temple in
Jerusalem. Um, a refurbishment that continued, uh, uh, after his, um, his, uh, uh, death in 4BCA.
So anyway, here, yeah, his kingdom gets divided upon his, his death and Antipas inherits this
northern part, um, including Galilee. And Antipas, uh, wants to continue, um, the, this legacy that
his father here at the great had initiated. So he starts his own, uh, building projects. Um, and
there are two major building projects in Galilee during the lifetime of Jesus that we know about,
both from archaeology and from, um, ancient historical writings, such as the writings of, of
Josephus. Um, this includes both the rebuilding of Seferus and the founding of a city called
Tiberius. Now the, uh, building of, of Seferus, um, and Seferus, you know, is this,
was this massive urban project that was based, uh, that was founded, you know, I think about
six kilometers from Nazareth where Jesus grew up. So it's right in that proximity of where,
uh, Jesus is, is located and the city already existed, but it actually been destroyed, uh,
in four BCE following some turmoil and uprisings that were happening in response to here at the
great's death. So Antipas has it, um, rebuilt to the extent that, uh, some ancient authors call it,
you know, the ornament of all Galilee. It's, it's heavily Romanized. Um, it's this place of
kind of elite power and concentration of wealth and so on. And then, um, uh, a few decades later,
around 19 CE, so just before the Jesus movement gets going, um, Antipas
founds this city on the Sea of Galilee on the coast of the Sea of Galilee called Tiberius.
And this is named after the Roman emperor at the time and honor or homage to the Roman emperor,
emperor, the kind of the Roman power that lays behind Herod's power. And this city, um,
uh, again has, has a massive social and economic impact on, uh, the entire region. So it's these
historical events and sorry that was a long story kind of bringing you up to there, but these,
these are the events that, um, uh, and it's these building projects that, that we say in the book
really transformed the social and material conditions, um, in Galilee at the time and,
um, uh, it really threw up a whole load of, um, upheavals and, and, and changes that, uh,
people felt, you know, felt that they needed to respond to. Um, yeah.
So at the time, and I'm, I'm very bad at history. I'm trying to, to learn more myself, but at the
time where the Romans were kind of like, um, were they seen as the oppressors of, of, um, these
nations that they kind of had control over? Like where, where the, um, the Jewish, uh, kings that
were put in place, where they kind of put in place because they were buddy, buddy with them,
but then the Jewish people or the people of Palestine didn't necessarily like them, um,
the leaders that they had. And is, is that kind of the, um, the dynamic?
Um, we've always got to be careful about making generalizations about any society within any
society. You'll have some people who like the Romans and some people who don't like the Romans,
you know, some people who like the current government, some people who are against it.
And I think that case is, is definitely there in, uh, Palestine under the Romans.
There were certainly people who didn't like it. There are a number of uprisings, popular movements
and so on of people explicitly, uh, rejecting, um, uh, uh, Roman, uh, rule over the region.
And we think that, um, you know, the Jesus movement was one of these, uh, movements and actually,
um, leading up to, uh, uh, you know, the sort of, um, sorry, uh, a couple of decades after
the initial organizing of the Jesus movement, there's actually this major revolt against
the Romans from, uh, the Judeans. So in 66 CE, um, the, the, the Jewish aristocracy,
organized this, uh, uh, revolt against Rome, um, this, this full on, uh, revolt that, you know,
the Romans then send in the allegiance and, and, um, kind of suppress it. And the fighting goes
on for a couple of years, um, up to the point where in 70 CE, the Romans actually, uh, destroy the
Jewish temple. Um, and this is a really significant event in, in, you know, the history of both
Judaism and actually early Christianity as well. I, I have heard that, that's part of the prophecy
that, um, Jesus has said to have fulfilled when he says that he, you know, Matthew 24,
I, you know, you, you'll not, no brick will be on top of itself and, and all that. Um,
most scholars would say that the Gospels were written, um, after the destruction of the temple.
So even if Jesus had predicted it, and we do talk about this in the book as well,
like I'm quite open to Jesus predicting that, you know, like the idea that if you're speaking up
against the powers that be, that they're going to come in and smash your most important, uh, place.
Yeah. You know, like, like that's a demonstration of the power. So it's quite,
you could easily predict something like that, or you could realistically predict something like
that. So Jesus might have predicted it. And then the Gospels, particularly Matthew, you know,
it's written after the, after the fact that the temple's being destroyed. So they write it up in
a way of, and Jesus predicted this. So this is prophecy fulfilled. Yeah. Yeah. Um, this is a
random, this is kind of a random aside, but when Jesus was crucified, different Gospels kind of
tell it a little bit differently, but didn't the temple, like the curtain in the temple
rip into, and the, I think if you watch the movie, the passion, everything's just, you're
destroying your universe. Is that, is that, uh, did that happen historically? Like, was there a
huge disturbance in the temple at the time? Or is that something that's just, um, well, no, I think
it's, that's something difficult, that would be difficult to establish historically. It kind of
comes from the, the apocalyptic context of, of what Jews thought these events were, were, were,
were a part of. So, um, the, the, for the early, uh, followers of Jesus, for the early Jesus
movement, uh, Jesus's death on the cross, you know, signified the beginning of the end. This was
the end times, uh, happening here and now. And, um, and, and part of this is going to involve
earthquakes and, you know, the, the, the curtain of the temple, uh, tearing in two and, and, um,
if you actually, if you look at Matthew 27, there's a really interesting little, uh, passage there
about, um, all these dead saints coming, um, waking up. Oh yeah. And the tombs and then going into
Jerusalem and walking about, these are all parts, part of the, the, that kind of apocalyptic thinking
that was, that was, uh, really, um, part and parcel of, of, uh, how the early Jesus movement
were interpreting what was going on. Yeah. Is, is, and this is a random aside as well. I apologize.
Um, I get inspired by the whiskey and it comes out of me, but the, um, when you say apocalyptic
preacher, I've heard, um, professors like, uh, Bart Ehrman, um, mentioned that, that, um, that,
like apocalyptic preachers were like a dime a dozen. Like there were a lot going around at that
time in first century Palestine. Is that kind of accurate? Is that true? Um, was, was apocalyptic
kind of preacher a, like a, like, is it kind of like how we see televangelists now? There's
like a million, you know, a million of them. They all seem. Oh right. Yeah. Like, is it like,
yeah. Uh, no, I think, I mean, yeah, like apocalypticism as a kind of a worldview where,
um, um, or we call it millenarianism in our book where, um, it was, it was pretty common within
Judaism. Not every, not all Jews believed it, but, um, a number of Jews believed that, uh,
you know, they were living in, in the end times or close to the end times. Um, and, uh, that, uh,
the, the, you know, the current age, uh, was leading up to some dramatic cataclysmic event,
at which point, uh, God would dramatically intervene and bring about a new age, a new, um,
a new, a new kingdom, actually. And actually, I think it's really important to point out that
apocalyptic thinking like this always went hand in hand with a challenge to, um, political power.
So it was understanding their own political situation under the Romans, for example. Um,
but, you know, things are so bad or things, you know, from their perception aren't going so well.
So the only thing that could fix this is, is God coming in and dramatically shaking things up
and then, um, installing, uh, a Jewish king like Jesus or something like that to inaugurate a new
age and new kingdom. And yeah, these ideas, um, are really prevalent, uh, within that time. We
have lots and lots of apocalyptic texts in early Judaism, um, from around that time, which espoused
similar kinds of views, uh, to what the early Jesus movement were doing. And we would say that,
you know, this is part of the work of, of historical Jesus research is that we need to see
the early Jesus movement in that context, in this context of different apocalyptic movements.
So yeah, so it's, it's, it's, uh, just, just like, this is what I mean by opening a can of worms,
like the content, just where do we go from here? Where do we go? Yeah. Just putting Jesus in the
context is like hard enough. Like it's like, it's, it's so big. Uh, and you mentioned in the book,
I'm not sure if it was in the book or if it was in the, um, in the Mithvish episode, but you mentioned
how, um, the, a lot of the, you know, the, the people Jesus, uh, the, a lot of the stories and
the people Jesus calls are common people. They're fishermen. They're, um, they're not like high-ranking
officials. And, you know, and, and can you talk a little bit about that, about, about why you think,
I guess, um, uh, why do you think Jesus came and spoke, like, why was it ordinary people
rather than the rich? Uh, and maybe you could touch on the, um, Jesus, uh, your view on Jesus'
mission to the rich as well. Yeah. We think that the, the, the movement, um, even though, uh, and I
will talk about this, I think it's the second party question in a little bit, um, that, that the Jesus
movement was intent on drawing in people from across class lines. It was, it was certainly a
movement that, um, uh, wanted to, uh, basically reverse the material hierarchies in Galilee and
Judea. So those famous phrases about, uh, you know, uh, the first will be last and the last will be
first. I think the Jesus, the Jesus movement meant those, you know, to be understood, like,
quite literally that in this, not like, not spiritually, not like, no, no. I mean, well,
well, I think for them, the spiritual and the material went hand in hand. Yeah. God was going
to come in and turn up this, the situation where the, the wealthy in, uh, these cities, the wealthy
who were responsible for these, uh, building projects and benefiting from these building
projects and Sephiris and Tiberius and exploiting, um, the ordinary fishermen and, and, and farmers
and villages from the surrounding countryside, uh, God was going to come in and, and, uh, shake this
all up so that the first would be last, the last would be first. Uh, it seems like the Jesus
movement, the early Jesus movement had a lot to say about, uh, you know, the meek and, and
downtrodden kind of inheriting the earth. And I think that they meant that quite, quite literally
that, um, the, the rich, the wealthy, uh, those who were seen to be, uh, exploiting the poor,
um, could expect God's judgment and God's wrath at the day, at the day of judgment.
And these are themes that come through really strongly through, uh, the gospels, particularly
the first three, what's known as the snoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark and, and Luke. Um, yeah.
Yeah. It's your favorite. Go, go, go for it. Yeah. I was going to ask, is your favorite gospel,
the gospel of Matthew? Or is that just the one you've studied the most? What's your favorite?
I, I did my PhD thesis on the gospel of Matthew, so I know it pretty well. I don't know if I have
a favorite. Um, I think that they're all pretty interesting and useful for different, for different
reasons. Um, Matthew is, is particularly interesting because, uh, it is just so immersed in this
apocalyptic and quite, you know, judgmental, um, world. Like, uh, there is, there is a judgment
coming and you, you know, you better be on the right side of history when this, when this judgment
comes, um, or you will be, you know, thrown into eternity or whatever. Um, uh, so it is interesting
to see how like the, and you mentioned this a little bit, but it's interesting to see how
the, the, the kind of the, the, you can see, you can, if you read Mark first, which you probably
hold to Mark in priority, right? Um, you know, you read Mark and you go all the way to John,
you can kind of see themes develop, like get more, like either extreme or like details are added and,
um, and you can see that with Jesus' resurrection, you know, the original Mark doesn't have a,
well, it does have a resurrection story. It doesn't have the disciples counting the
best way. Yeah. Yeah. It's super, it's super interesting to me. Um, but, uh, but just touching
on, so what was, what do you think Jesus' mission to the rich were? And you asked me to ask that
before we, uh, we came on. So, um, you know, we, we suggest that in the book, um, that rather than
having a mission to the poor, as it's kind of commonly put, Jesus actually had a mission to
the rich. Uh, and this is actually a way of making sense of, um, the, the teachings in the
gospels when, uh, Jesus actually appears to be talking to wealthier people, commanding them to
give up their wealth or face judgment, uh, you know, face wrath at the coming judgment, right? So, um,
um, we, and part of our argument here, uh, looks at the word sinners, and the way that this word
has actually been misinterpreted through the Christian tradition. So within, um, we look at,
you know, over a thousand years of Jewish texts of this word sinners, both, you know, in the,
in the Hebrew scriptures and other Jewish texts, and there's a fairly consistent meaning of what
this word sinners meant. Um, basically it meant people who broke the law, lawbreakers, the Jewish
law, uh, within a Jewish context. So they were sinners. So, um, uh, they had broken the law,
and so they reject God because they've broken the law. And in fact, sinners could be used to apply
to, uh, the nations outside of Israel because they, they reject, they, well, you know, from the
Jews perspective, they rejected the Jewish God, even if they never even heard about it, whatever.
But, you know, so they're sinners, whatever. Yeah. So that's the kind of meaning. Now,
whenever, whenever the socioeconomic status of sinners is mentioned every single time,
it's always in ref, across all these Jewish texts, it's always in reference to exploitative rich
people. So these are exploitative rich, uh, Jews primarily who, who are not abiding by
some of the social justice, uh, presets in the Jewish law. Um, so. Wow. So, so it's not.
So, so that common, that common misunderstanding or the common assumption that sinners in Jesus's
time, like when it took, when the gospels talk about Jesus having, uh, meals with, with, uh,
tax collectors and sinners. And there's this common idea that, you know, sinners were societal
outcasts or downtrodden or something. And that's why it's scandalous. That's why
people were up in arms about Jesus having dinner with tax collectors and sinners.
No, it's precisely because they're rich people. Right. Jesus is having, uh, meals with, with
tax collectors and, uh, wealthy sinners, those responsible for some of these, um, socioeconomic
changes and presumably based on a lot of the other, uh, teachings that, um, uh, we find in the
gospels concerning wealth and, and, and justice and so on. Uh, Jesus and the early Jesus movement
were asking these rich sinners to give up their wealth or face terrible consequences at the
day of judgment, which is going to be coming very soon. Um, wow, it's, it's so easy to just
like, you know, it's so easy to read the Bible. And I used to do this when I was a youth pastor,
read the Bible and I'm like, this was directed to me, like David McDonald, you know, living in.
Yeah. Well, I mean, and I think within the Christian tradition that, that term, um, changed
because Christianity, although it starts as this, uh, movement within Judaism and so initially
within the early Jesus movement, sinners would have been understood in this way. But by the time
the, uh, the Jesus movement begins, um, expanding and bringing on, uh, non-Jews,
it tends to take a broader meaning, you know, to, to, to mean those who, um, because, uh, the,
uh, at least eventually, you know, the, the, the early church decided that non-Jewish followers
of Jesus did not have to follow the law, but it could still talk about sinners. You know, so
so words change meaning and within the Christian context that word does, but of course we're
in our book on the historical Jesus, we're interested in what the earliest, uh, followers of
Jesus and the early Jesus movement would have thought and understood by these terms and these,
these, these words. Yeah. And it's, and it is, like I said, it's very deep because if you want to get
this book, please do. It is a beast. It's a beast of a book and, um, it's, it's quite cheap on,
um, Amazon. So I'd go, um, check it out for sure. Definitely, um, grab a copy. It's a really,
uh, I highly recommend it. I'm going to go back through the book because I want to like, I, I, I
had the, um, the, the PDF version that you sent through and I've been going through that. But
a lot of it, it's like trying to find notes for this interview. I want to really go and soak back,
soak back through this book. I really highly, highly recommend it. Um, you read it. Just an
example of, um, just an example of, this is, this is what I love to do with, um, people who
want from, uh, Australia, but I could say a sentence to you that I guess no one would understand.
I could say, uh, yeah, yeah, nah. Uh, yeah, right. Listen, mate, let's grab Robbo before we go to the
servo. Uh, we got to pick up some Darius because the bottle doesn't have any Winnie Reds. Uh,
later, let's go do some Doeys at Mackers car park. Fuck yeah. And you probably know what's
going on there. It doesn't sound like it's like the most, uh, I mean, I don't, I mean, I think that
like, I don't know if anyone's ever going to actually literally have that conversation, but no,
but it makes sense. And it sounds like a horrible night to be honest. Um, so that's
specifically saying let's go, let's go grab Robert. Uh, let's go to the service station,
to pick up some cigarettes, um, uh, because I don't have the Winford red, uh, reds at the
bottle shop. The bottle shop, I guess, is, um, where you buy a liquor, uh, and then let's go to
the car park at McDonald's and do some donuts. And then fuck yeah, means that sounds good. Um, so
yeah. So I mean, even there, like that, that's just the, you know, we can understand that just
like we could talk, you know, we could even say, yeah, yeah, nah, or nah, nah, yeah. And we'd understand
what that means. And that's just in today's, you know, connected world and a lot of people
wouldn't understand. So yeah, it's, it's, it's, it's sort of a fundamental point about, about
language that, um, language, you know, it, it, it can only be understood within its particular
context, right? And, um, and depending on the context, the meaning of a word will change. Um,
but I, and actually this, this honestly, this was one of the points of choosing this whiskey
because, because the thing is, is that if I say, Hey David, I want to share the gospel with you,
what do you think I mean? What do you think I mean by that? Right? Like, and if I, you know,
and if, if I wasn't showing you the bottle or something like that, like, you know, you could,
you could come away with a completely different meaning. But also it's interesting because this,
this term is not a term that was unique to the early Jesus movement at all. In fact, it already
had, um, a preexisting, uh, widespread association in the first century. And if someone said to you
in the first century in Palestine, Hey, I want to share the good news with you, your immediate
association with us would be, Oh, was, did the Romans have a military victory somewhere? Or,
Oh, did the, did the Roman emperor give birth to an heir? So this language of gospel was actually
language that was associated primarily with Rome and Roman imperial rule. And the early Christians,
um, uh, uh, reappropriate this language and make it about Jesus, right? So when you bring in that,
yeah, yeah, and then when you bring in that political understanding as well, it's like,
well, okay, what does that mean to say this is good news about Jesus, the Lord who is bringing
a kingdom? You know, this is like, this is a figure who, and a movement that are promising
a kingdom that's going to replace the current powers of the day. It's going to replace Rome.
It's going to replace Caesar. Um, and they're using Rome's own language about it. So the word
basalaia, which gets translated as kingdom, kingdom of God, uh, is the same word in Greek that would
be used to talk about the Roman empire. Um, so, you know, some, some scholars have translated
it as empire of God. Uh, it's, it's, um, yeah, it's just so it's very, I can't, I keep saying wild,
but it really is wild to like, just, just to try and even understand the context of this. Um,
I wanted to ask you actually, um, you know, one thing that I'm kind of, um, learning about at
the moment, and I, and Derek kind of pointed this out with, um, uh, I think it's, um, uh, Dr. Dennis
McDonald. He has a book, um, talking about the similarities between some of Greek myths and
some stories written about Jesus. And we kind of went over, you know, the, uh, the story of Odysseus
and, uh, and, uh, and the, um, the giant and, and Jesus and the pigs and, and the, um, uh,
possessed person. So we have these stories that look like they could have been, you know,
re-adapted from some Greek stories, like kind of tweaked a little bit. And you mentioned that
the gospel is kind of tweaked a little bit. It's like, well, this is our version of it.
Are there any, are there anything else that's like a real big standout that just kind of points
that, uh, to, because I know that Paul talks about some, he has some pagan, he has some pagan
sentences in some of his, some of his work. And he also has, um, there's also something that I
found really interesting, which was, um, and I'm trying to find the original quote. Let me just
read it out to you. Uh, the love of money is the mother city metropolis of all evils. And it's by
buying of Boris, Boris, Boris, and that's like, you know, 400 years prior to Jesus, right? And I
don't know if that's a faithful interpretation of a faithful translation of the Greek. I've been
trying to learn, like, look at the Greek all week to try and work out if it's actually like a faithful,
because it's hard to find. Anyway, uh, the love of money is the mother city of all evils is very
similar to, you know, the love of money is the root of all evils. So it's like, are there anything
else in the New Testament that you go, wow, this is like straight out of Plato's thought, or this is
straight out of, um, Roman, uh, concepts of X or anything like that. I'm gonna, I'm gonna change,
I'm gonna change your question a bit, because I don't know if I, I want to, I want to answer it by
reformulating or rephrasing the question. I'm often asked was, and particularly this has happened
a couple of times when I've been presenting on the book. Um, but what, you know, I get asked,
but was, what did the historical Jesus do that was unique? Was there anything about the early
Jesus movement that was unique, or unlike, you know, what anybody else was doing? And, um, and my
answer inevitably frustrates, um, frustrates people, um, whether Christian or not, but it,
because people are bound to this idea that, uh, you know, Jesus and the early Jesus movement
must have been unique in some way, either, you know, they were the only like nonviolent
resistance religious group or something, or they were, you know, or they, they're the only group
that, um, uh, promoted this idea of resurrection or something. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like, yeah,
it's quite nonsensical, um, from a, from a historical point of view. I mean, we can say,
like everybody's unique, right? So to say that something or someone is unique is not in and of
itself special, but also everybody shares things with other people and every group shares things
with other people. And also the only way that we make sense of the world is by reference to
what other people have said or other texts have written or what we've read or, you know, like,
we're always interpreting something in light of everything else anyway. And so for me, what makes
the early Jesus movement unique is the specific, um, the specific ways and, you know, the things
that it has, um, this, sorry, the specific combination of, of things that it has that it
shares with everyone else. So, um, so, you know, it's not, it shouldn't be surprising to any of us
that it's like, you know, it borrowed ideas from there and here and it was influenced by, uh,
Greek thought maybe on, and especially, you know, Jewish apocalyptic and millenarian
movements and thought, which, which we really push in the book. Um, it was
reappropriating Roman imperial terms for its own theological and political purposes,
and so on. And like, and it did that in its own sort of unique combination or its own way
and drawing these different things together, which is exactly what any political movement
through history or any political or religious movement through history would do.
It would say, oh yeah, we're drawing inspiration from these ideas. We're going to borrow that
there and we're going to put it together and come up with something novel or something new.
Does that make sense? Yeah, so I understand that. It's like, it's, well, my next question, I guess,
is, is, is, is, why did the Jesus movement continue and, you know, Bob, the theological
apocalyptic preacher, didn't and, you know, um, you know, or John the Baptist, why didn't they
continue? Why didn't their missions continue? Why didn't they? It seems like John the Baptist
movement did actually continue for a while. Oh yeah. And probably it was more popular at the
time of, of the early Jesus movement, actually, but yeah, it peters out. You don't find too many
followers of John today. I think there are still some groups, but, um,
it's funny because you think that you think I always thought that John's movement was the Jesus
movement. I thought John kind of like was like, well, now Jesus is the Son of God. Yeah, yeah,
well, no, but I mean, the, the Gospels are very much concerned with, you know, like appropriating
John the Baptist for their own movement, for their own movement, like saying that, well, yeah,
he was in continuity with, with our group, but it seems that there's probably a bit of rivalry
or something. I don't know. They were similar sound. They were similar groups. We go into it
in the book in terms of the details. Um, wait, what, yeah, where are we going with this? What was
your question again? Is there any, are there any standout things that are you like, that you're
like, this is, this is like classic of, um, no, we've talked about like the Gospels being
really appropriate, but is there anything that's like standout? This is classic taken from the
Romans or classic, or this is, this is on the face of it. Like the word, you know, the word gospel,
the idea of like pretty much everything that's claimed about Jesus being Son of God, um, born
of a virgin, uh, savior of the world, bringer of the good news, all of the stuff was language that
was associated with the Roman emperor. So we think that, you know, Jesus was, uh, setting himself up
as, or the Jesus movement was setting Jesus up as this rival, uh, imperial figure intent on bringing,
you know, an empire that, that would, uh, obliterate Roman imperial power over Palestine and,
and, um, uh, you know, reappoint, uh, rule it in the interests of, of, uh, the Jewish nation and the
Jewish God. But that, that, because that's, that's interesting, right? Because obviously the Gospels
and everything was, or everything that we, where we get that information from is from the Gospels
and Paul and Epistles, but they weren't written until after Jesus had died and obviously didn't
come back. Did they believe that Jesus was coming back as an earthly like overthrow of Rome, or do
they, or do they have more of a, I guess, a new wave Christian idea of Jesus coming back
and everyone going up to heaven? Like what did, how did they, how do you tie that together with
the idea that, you know, like how is he, if they're writing all this stuff down, like he's overthrowing
the Romans and, and, you know, in kind of spinning it to be like, this is, you know, this is our guy,
this is the, the Jewish kind of, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, um, gosh, that's, I mean, that is the question
and it's a huge question. So I'm just thinking about, about kind of how to, how to put it simply.
Awesome, always. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Sorry, let me just have a drink.
Let me just straight out of the bottle. Um, no, so I mean, we, we have, uh, other movements in
first century, um, Judea where they're very intent on actually, you know, like a violent
military uprising to overthrow the temple or, or, or the power brokers of, of, uh, society or whatever.
And we, we talk a bit about some of those movements in the book. Um, the Jesus movement,
of course, you know, the, the central figure dies, uh, is, uh, kind of martyred for the causes it were.
But, um, we argue that the, that the early Jesus movement interpreted this within their
apocalyptic context or their apocalyptic think, thinking, and they thought that Jesus' death
itself and especially his resurrection were testament to the fact that the Jewish God
was, uh, um, intervening in human history to bring about this, this new kingdom on earth,
which would be ruled by Jesus. So Jesus, who, you know, had ascended to heaven would be coming
back to, to, uh, rule, um, as Lord, uh, this new divine kingdom on earth. Um, and it would be ruled,
you know, in the interests of the Jewish God and the Romans would be obliterated. And this,
this kind of apocalyptic thinking pervades a lot of the, the New Testament, particularly the earliest
writings. So all of Paul's letters, um, or, you know, scholars are divided in terms of,
uh, which ones they deem authentic, but those which are universally deemed to, to go back to the
apostle Paul all have this very, uh, apocalyptic, um, outlook of this age ruled by Satan or Rome
is on its way out. The rulers of this world, the rulers of this world, you know, had they known
that they had crucified their Lord, Lord in glory, they didn't know because what happened was the
Jewish God who's more powerful than, than Rome, which is backed by its own Roman gods and, and
theological, uh, powers. Um, this, uh, Jewish God is coming into, to, um, uh, intervening in human
history and, and bringing about this new reign of God on earth and it's happening right now.
And we're, and so the early Christians believe that they're in this kind of transitional phase
between, um, you know, it's like the beginning of the end or they're in the midst of this
transition to this new age. Now, because it doesn't happen, because God does, you know, Jesus
doesn't actually come back. They were expecting it to happen imminently as we kind of already
mentioned and already by the fifties when Paul's writing his letters, it's late.
Um, they start to readjust and read that some of these, uh, ideas and beliefs. And so some of
the later writings in the New Testament, um, uh, are more concerned with setting up, I suppose, kind
of church power structures to, uh, enable the church to, um, you know, continue on intergenerationally.
Um, and the, the, you know, by the time of John's gospel, which, which, uh, many scholars think
was written last, the kingdom is suddenly not of this world. You know, it, it, yeah, yeah, that's
what I mean by the theological ideas develop. It's not, it sort of gets further and further
displaced, but in the earliest texts and particularly in Paul's authentic letters,
this stuff is imminent. It's, it's happening tomorrow or next week or it should have already happened.
Um, you know, let's, let's be prepared. Yeah.
It's so, uh, it's so wild because you even think about like, you know, Jesus coming back with
the horns and it's like, you know, the angels blowing the trumpets, you know, and it's like,
you know, Romans like they hear the army coming. They're coming to take the, you know, Roman to
take the, um, the, the, the nations back. And you even like it, like it's, uh, I'm losing my
channel of thought a little bit, but it's, it's, it's just so white. Like it's just, yeah, I think
I need to have more whiskey, but oh man, I lost my channel of thought, but I really had a, I had
an interesting, I had a, I had the question that was going to blow your way. You're going to be
mind blown away by the question. Yeah. Um,
probably, oh yes, that's right. Uh, you know, you hear about like these end time, um,
end time preachers now, like, um, they'll, they'll sell everything. You know, there's like, there was
that old book that was, uh, 88 reasons why the end will come before 1988. And, you know, and they had
like all these reasons and, um, and people, uh, you know, Bart Omen talks about this, like people
sold the farm. He knew people who sold the, the parents sold the farm. They got, they got rid of
everything. And what's interesting about these, you know, a bit of human psychology, not that I'm
a psychologist or have any academic research there, but we're not trained in that area. But
what's interesting is the, the sunk cost fallacy, right? Where people, if they invest a lot into
a certain worldview, they're less likely to kind of give it up and, uh, or to try and find a way
to rework it, to reshift it, to change it, to adapt it to whatever new information them. And
what I can, all I can think of is, you know, the early church, according to acts, they sold all
their belongings and they piled together and gave it the apostles feet and said, do, you know, and
you can just see how if they truly, if they started out truly believing like, let's, you know, the rich
bad, the poor are the ones, you know, the first we last, last we first, let's give all that stuff
to the apostles because we're going to be rewarded when this new kingdom comes in. Uh, and then
the new kingdom doesn't come in. Well, let's twist the story and then all of a sudden they're the
people who were starting these churches and are most involved because they have to be, because
it's so psychologically damaging for them to, to admit like, oh, maybe this wasn't, uh, all
this cracked up to be, and we actually sold everything we, we have. And, uh, you know,
like it's, it's that sunk cost. You know, if people, you know, if people or groups ever
actually come to that full realization, I mean, I, you know, as a, as a historian and religious
historian who studies this stuff, I, I tend to, I tend to see people as acting sincerely.
I know that I know that there are grifters in the mix. You know,
I like to cycle on a lot of people without, yeah, but it's like, I, I tend to think, yeah, that,
that, that they really sincerely believed it. And, and actually I think that's what can cause
the, you know, yeah, like the cognitive dissonance and the, okay, well, they're going to, they're
going to keep hold to this, to this belief system. And okay, maybe we got some of the
details wrong, but the general thing is correct, right? So they just sort of change it, but
they're doing this really sincerely. I think, um, I don't think they're out to deceive, uh,
necessarily, maybe some other, I don't know, but, um,
Oh, I don't think that, I don't think that, I think it's like a, I don't, I don't mean to say
that I thought they would be sorry. And I wasn't, I wasn't, I was just clarifying my own,
Yeah, yeah. I think it's, I think it's more of like, because I've been there,
like I've been there where you all of a sudden, you know, you're, you're involved in this, like,
this ministry. And you're like, Oh, like, I remember, I remember being, um, when I was kind
of deconstructing my faith, um, I read, I was like, I'm going to read through the entire New
Testament from start to finish. And I decided to do that. And, um, I got up to the scripture, which
says, um, you know, women are not to speak in church or have authority over a man. And I was
like, Oh yeah, yeah, I know the apologetics to this, you know, and then I read on and it said,
because women would, cause Eve was to see first, this was the reason. And you're like,
wait, that, that reason still exists today. Like, but I think, I think women should be
able to speak in church. I'm like, hang on. And then, you know, I asked someone at church and they
said, um, oh, that was for a time. And, you know, we know this because like who would, you know,
who would want women not to be able to speak in church? Like, and they give all these really
weird reasons. And then I'm, and I said, so my gay friend who's like, you know, homosexual, like,
oh no, no, no, that's a sin. That's definitely a sin. We know that's a sin. Okay. But for me,
that was a bit of a, you know, you kind of, you kind of have to find ways to make things work
when you're invested in something like that, you know, um, yeah, yeah. And it's, it's, it's
interesting though, cause I think even within like the New Testament itself, we see, um, this kind
of negotiating negotiation going on. So the common perception, modern perception of, of the Bible
and of the New Testament is that it, you know, it's God's word. It speaks with one voice, but
actually we've got multiple voices and, um, different perspectives kind of coming together
within this canon, right? And, uh, in the New Testament in particular, in the early church,
we can see, I mean, you already mentioned it yourself in terms of the Gospels, when you,
when you line them up, you can see development and embellishment. And in fact, each Gospel
author is, is, uh, addressing, you know, they might be addressing the truth as they see it,
but it's, it's in light of the, the circumstances of their current situation or the people that
they're, they're writing to or the way in which they want to present the material, which may
be quite different from someone else's context. Um, oh, you know, they might have trouble with
some of Jesus's teachings. So for example, the, um, the teaching Jesus is teaching on divorce,
uh, against divorce, um, which we think, you know, is, is really strong. There's a really strong
likelihood that that went, that has some proximity to the historical Jesus, that that went back very
early in the movement. I mean, even Paul, who doesn't give us much information about, um,
the historical Jesus, uh, already mentions this teaching about Jesus's teaching against
divorce. And then we find it in the Gospels, but we see it being negotiated. Paul negotiates it. He
says, you know, well, I, you know, I know what we've received from the Lord, but actually this is
what I say. This is, this is my view, not the Lord's, right? So he's already like saying, he's
already forming this distinction between, in 1 Corinthians, is it chapter seven?
Oh, I won't look it up, but I'll look it up later, but I mean, yeah, yeah. That's interesting.
Sorry, I don't have it on top of my head, but, um, that's okay. Um, yeah. So he, he, he talks about,
Paul talks about like the, the teachings that he's received from the Lord,
by which he means Jesus, or not, not that he's personally received from the Lord, but that,
the movement or, you know, the, the Christians have, have,
has come directly from the Lord. And then he talks about, you know, the, these, this advice
that I'm giving you is what I think, but it doesn't actually come from the Lord. So he says that a
couple of times, I think, and, and he's doing exactly this kind of negotiation. I think they're
in quite an honest way. He's saying, I'm not going to change what Jesus said to suit myself. I'm just
going to say, well, Jesus said this, but actually I think, you know, we've got a, there's, it's a
bit different now or this, you know, whatever, but then even the gospel, the gospel authors
change this teaching as well. So Mark has, uh, Jesus prohibit, uh, um, adultery. Uh, when he's
asked about this, you know, um, he just prohibits adults, uh, sorry, he prohibits divorce. Right.
He prohibits divorce. And then, um, uh, and Matthew, Matthew kind of changes it a bit.
And he says, uh, you could, um, divorce your wife in cases of, uh, it's sometimes translated as
unchastity, right? Yeah. Like sexually. The Greek word there is porneia, which has quite a broader
meaning to do with like sexual morality. It could refer to a whole host of things, not
necessarily unchastity. I don't even know what that means really. But, um, the point that I'm
making is that Matthew actually adds a condition in which it's okay to divorce your wife.
Whereas for Mark, Mark's version of that teaching,
like it's just prohibited. Like it's black and white. There's no, there's no give or take.
So we can already see early on the tradition, um, the developing tradition, like negotiating
and renegotiating, uh, these different rules because, you know, it's, it's having to survive
and adapt within a changing environment. And, and you can see the, you can see the issues and
the problems with that, um, in regards to formulating like, I guess, a religion, um, or a
doctrine because, um, and this is me once again, and I want to get, I'm, I'm saying this because
I want to get your perspective on this. Might be out of your realm of expertise, but because I'm
not an expert, I'm happy to give my opinion and know that, but you see this all through, you know,
you got these different stories about Jesus and they kind of somewhat, they're mostly lineup,
but some of them don't, they develop and there's different theological perspectives. I think there's
like 45,000 denominations of Christianity. If you take a very loose term or denomination means,
um, but if you, but you get, you know, to 615 AD or, or, um, or CE, whatever you call it and, uh,
and Islam is forming. And you can see, you know, they obviously know of the Bible and then, and then
your big thing in Islam is that the Bible has been corrupted. And you can see that the very,
if you read the Quran, it's very, it's like, this is the direct, like this will never be changed.
This is the exact words of God. This is like, like, I didn't have anything to do with this. I
can't even read or write. I think Muhammad said, he's like, this is exactly what God said, like
the words of God. And, uh, you can see how like, to me, it looks like, as if it's a,
it's a soul for that problem. It's like, let's create our own religion.
Right. It's, it's direct. It's like direct revelation. Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, you're right in the sense that we're stepping outside of my area of expertise. So
I don't want to talk authoritatively about it, but from what I understand, I think that that's
exactly the case that, um, that the, yeah, the Quran like is, is purporting to be this kind of
direct revelation in a way that I think, I think that the, the New Testament and the, the Bible
becomes that, but it wasn't that, it, it, it wasn't that canonized. It's like, yeah. I mean, I don't
even know if it becomes that. I think that certain Christians have claimed that of it.
Yeah. Yeah. But I think even that, you know, has, has changed over time about what the Bible
actually is. And then biblical scholars like myself and, and historical critics have, have
gone back and, and, you know, like gone through the texts with a fine tooth comb and actually
said, well, look, you can, we can see that these clearly like have different perspectives and views
and have emerged from different historical contexts. Yeah. And I don't, I don't know anything really
about like the historical criticism of the Quran. So I just assume that similar conversations have
happened or maybe happening there. I don't know. Yeah. I'm going to send all my Muslim apologists
to come and I'll be using them. This man knows nothing. So, so I got just to be respectful of
your time. I want to jump on some Q&A. If anyone's got any questions, that'd be great.
I've got a few questions I've written down. What are the implications of your research
regarding the shaping of modern Christianity? Do you want to say a bit more about what your,
what you mean? I'm not sure. Yeah. So, so, so, like, is there, like, let's say someone absorbs
the message of your book, like some sort of a neo in the matrix zaps it into their brain.
How does that change their perspective of, of, of the shaping of modern Christianity?
Like, are they going to walk away? Like, give it, give us the, if someone doesn't want to buy
your fantastic book, which everyone should go, what message are they going to walk away with
when they kind of read, read this and like, what, what revelation will they better understand?
Could we just use the word revelation like a, yes. Yeah. What will, what will be revealed
through the book? Yeah, what will be revealed. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think, I think a couple of
things. The first is that the world in which the historical Jesus is situated and the early
Jesus movement emerged is so radically different from our own world, you know, like, and in order
to properly understand it, we, we have to immerse ourselves as best we can in that world and realize
that it's going to look strange to us, that it's not necessarily going to align with everything
that we, we may think Jesus was or is or what have you, I think, especially, you know, the
Christianity today in a contemporary sense developed out of this, but over a process of
2000 years through a whole host of longer historical processes. So
there are some surprises there, and that shouldn't be surprising, but, you know,
they, they can be as I think, you know, has occurred to you through this part of this conversation.
When I leave a review, I'll write that. Unsurprisingly, there are some surprises.
Yeah. I mean, like, do you, but do you get what I mean? It's kind of like, yeah, there are some
surprises and then you're like, why am I surprised by this? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I mean.
It's like, yeah. Yeah. This is like, this early Jesus movement was immersed in this entirely
different socio-economic context, this agrarian world. And, you know, they were thoroughly
immersed in this apocalyptic Jewish thought that is pretty much completely alien to how many of us
think and operate today. Yeah. Yeah, like, you know, yeah, they didn't see the world as we do.
But interestingly, the, so the other point, this is the other part of my answer to your
question is that, is that this crazy apocalyptic movement from the first century, you know,
went on to influence a world religion, which also, you know, politically through history has
been, has been drawn on for inspiration for both kind of revolutionary movements,
revolutionary political movements and social change, but also reactionary ones and imperialistic
ones. And why is that? And I think that that's something that we really get to that at the,
at the kind of the core or the heart of the early Jesus movement was this ambiguous use of
and renegotiation of political and imperial power that was both, you know, a critique of
the Roman Empire and a critique of imperial power. But the early Jesus movement was also
thinking imperialistically, we want to replace the Roman Empire with God's empire or God's kingdom
with Jesus's Lord. And, you know, and this is good news. And, and, and so that kind of ambivalence
at the, at the heart of Christianity is kind of played out over 2000 years of it's inspired,
you know, both movements for social change, who draw explicitly and implicitly on the
teachings of Jesus and on the early Jesus movement in the New Testament, but equally, right, by like
reactionary right wing, or even, you know, even thinking in terms of where we started in terms
of the colonization of Australia and other places, like it was the, it was the colonists who bought
the Bible here as part of this enabling thing to spread the gospel to the ends of the earth,
as Jesus says to the disciples at the end of Matthew's gospel, right, like go out and
bring the good news to the nations, right, like, like that imperial project of colonization was
itself in part justified by reference to what was happening or what was recorded 2000 years ago in
this, in this text. Yeah, so I could, I could sit here, I could finish a whole bottle and listen
to you talk about this. I think you have, haven't you? Well, I guess, I guess you did ask me,
you did ask me to get the bottle and I have been reading your book and drinking it at the same time.
So just, just, I got some more questions, but I just wanted to shed out your book once again,
make sure guys check out the book, it's amazing. Coming up on Deep Drinks, we have Joe Schmidt
from Majesty of Reason, we've been talking about rationality and stuff like that, that's going to
be really cool. And then we have, we have Neil coming back on Isaiah 53, it's not about Jesus,
is the clickbaity title that I use there, but we're going to be talking about Isaiah 53.
And then we have Allie Hardy, who was in the documentary Hillsong Omega Church Exposed,
and she wrote the book called Beyond Belief, which is about Pentecostal Christianity. So,
and she does a deep dive into like Pentecostal Christianity, which is really cool because
I came from Pentecostal Christianity, so it'll be really cool to talk about. And then we have a
few Christians coming on, a Christian Apologist, which will be really cool to talk about the
existence of God, so that's going to be awesome. So make sure you subscribe, like,
send this to your fundamentalist auntie, and let's all have a good time. So the next question is,
are there any, any aspects of Jesus' life or the movement that you wish you could have spent
more time on or, or gone into in your book, but you, you kind of didn't have, it didn't kind of lend
itself to it in its current context, or anything you'd, you want to do more additional research on
in the future? Yeah, so much. At the moment, I'm looking more into the fishing communities that
were at the heart of the early Jesus movement. So, you know, Jesus is first four disciples that
He calls on the Sea of Galilee, on the foreshore of the Sea of Galilee, famously, you know, these
fishermen brothers. And I'm, so I'm currently doing more research into the social and economic
conditions of, of, and, you know, experiences that they would have had, which would have
driven them to join this apocalyptic movement, and also, you know, to think about how the,
how their influence would have shaped the, the movement in certain ways. I mean, you know,
like you look through the Gospels again, and there's, there's all the stuff about fishing,
there's all these miracles about fishing. And my question is, well, why is that, you know,
going, going beyond the kind of fishes of men, and yeah, yeah, like going beyond the kind of like,
Jesus did fishing miracles because like the fishermen liked it or something like that,
but to actually think about like, okay, so with the building of the city Tiberias on the seashore,
like it kind of means that better connected elites are able to dominate the Sea of Galilee.
It's like having this economic impact on the whole Sea of Galilee. How is that affecting small
fishermen in villages like Capernaum, who just had this kind of like small little fishing
collective or whatever of a couple of brothers, you know, like, like, it seems like the, these,
some of these economic changes and upheavals that I've been talking about,
we can talk about those with specific reference to fishing on the Sea of Galilee.
And so that's, that's one of the areas that I'm looking at at the moment.
James and I, my co-author James and I have, have teased with this idea of maybe doing a
sequel to this book, depending on, on fishing trips to Israel is what I'm saying.
Yeah. Well, a sequel to the, a sequel to the Jesus, a life and class conflict book. So
more of a, you know, like the production of early Christianity or how did it, how did it
go from, basically what comes after the early Jesus movement? How does it go from this,
this apocalyptic, early apocalyptic movement to the religion of empire by the fourth century?
Maybe we'll do that. I'm not sure that, that, that sounds extremely interesting.
And before we went live, Robert actually promised me that in one of the books,
there's a golden ticket to go fishing with James and Robert over in the Sea of Galilee. So
if you get the book, you could win the golden ticket. I'm just kidding. Well, wouldn't that
be funny? Wouldn't that be great? I wish. Better be cool. I like the golden ticket.
Yeah. I did have like, and the whiskey is obviously affecting me now, but I had this,
I had this, this actually, this thought on the way to work this morning when I was,
I was listening to the interview. I was like, man, evolution, like the science of evolution,
like fish, you know, fish would evolve at a very slow rate. The Sea of Galilee is quite,
is closed, right? The fish that were taken from the Sea of Galilee, like that Jesus would have
had a part on the shore. He would have eaten some of those fish. So technically, like we
could actually work out how genetically similar we could, we could go to that. We could go and
catch fish and be like, we're eating a fish. That's like 99.8% similar to the very fish that
Jesus would have eaten at the time. Like that's a, that's a wild, wild concept to me that you're
eating the great, great, great cousin of a fish that Jesus ate. Like that's, you gotta, you gotta
be careful because I think that the Sea of Galilee has a number of new species that have been
introduced since the time of Jesus. But there are some that persist. There's one that's called,
like its common name is St. Peter's fish, because precisely because it's one of the
native fish. I wonder if you like, you bring one up and then like it just splits into 5,000 or
yeah. Um, cool. So, uh, and, um, I got, I got a couple of un-serious questions. We will finish up
with, um, soon better. But one last serious question is, can you recommend any books or
resources to readers interested in learning more about the historical Jesus other than your
book? Um, early Christianity and I was gonna say our book first century. Your book is the, is the
go to, but let's say if someone was like, I love it. I love the book. It's awesome. Uh, and I want
to learn more other like textbooks that you like, where do you get your information from? Are you in
the sands of Galilee pulling out these, uh, manuscripts or like, how are you getting this
information? Yeah, right. I mean, we're, we're getting the information because we're, you know,
we're academics and we've, we're reading all the scholarly treaties within the, within the field
and we're looking at like primary sources and primary texts and so on. Um, in terms of where to
start, like if, if you are a beginner, uh, honestly, like Bart Ehrman's, um, books are a pretty good
start, you know, like it's somewhere to start. And then, so in my, in my, um, I teach a class called,
uh, you know, New Testament in its world. And, uh, for a number of years I've used Bart's book,
his textbook, um, the New Testament, a historical, something introduction. Yeah. Yeah. And, and,
it's on my wish list. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's quite, I think it's quite expensive, but it's a
beautiful book. It's got like full color images and all, you know, and, and I think it's just
very accessible and it's a good place to start. It's got good bibliographies that, um, that point
you to other stuff. Um, it's not like the final word because any scholarship is never the final word.
Right. Um, but, um, yeah. I mean, that would be one, one recommendation. If you, if you're really
interested in like the social context stuff and the, and the class struggle stuff, then, uh,
I can point to my other book. Um, it's an edited, uh, volume. It's, it's, it's a bit more academic
than, uh, you know, so it's not really for the beginner beginner, but someone who's,
who's done a bit of research into this and wants to find out more, uh, it's called class struggle
in the New Testament. Um, I've just found it. Yep. I had no idea that you were, you published a
bunch of other books. There we go. So that one is, is another, is another place to look. Um,
so that's where I, I reached out to, uh, a number of, of leading scholars, um, of, uh,
the New Testament, uh, who were looking at aspects of class and class struggle and, and
they, they offer their, their insights. Um, as I say, that, that book is, is, is more
like academic. The, the Jesus of life in class conflict is, um, really I would hope of interest
to like a wide range of people, um, you know, including non-specialists. Um, it's not, it's
not the, like, uh, I think as you said, like it's, it's still pretty dense. Like it's,
there's a lot of material packed in there, but we've written it in a way that is accessible
to the non-specialist. Yeah. A hundred percent. And I would, I would totally, um, stand by that.
I'd love you guys to do an audible version or something sometime that would be awesome.
Cause I think it's, um, it's, it's up there with, um, many of the, the popular Jesus.
If this was about heaven book, I'd be like, yep, this fits right in with like that level
of quality. It's really good. I love it. Um, okay. Last couple of silly questions and I ask,
I'd ask this, um, I ask, I ask this question of a lot of people and, um, and take, take some time
to think about it. Have a drink of whiskey, but, uh, what is the most plausibly true religion
that you don't believe in?
It's such a good question. Such a dumb question.
It's great, right? Cause atheists and theists can answer it, right? Like
there's a trend, I will tell you. Catholicism. Catholicism. Interesting. Why, why Catholicism?
It's got a good tradition. It's got cool hats. Yeah.
You're the first Catholicism with that. I, I, I, you know, I mean,
it's probably like a different part of your brain. Like you probably don't look at these things
more ways, like, uh, from like an epistemological, epistemological like framework, you kind of
look at it like a, you know, you know, I can give it, I know, and I, I've never thought about this,
but I can actually give like a pretty serious answer. I think coming back to exactly what we're
talking about right at the beginning with, um, the Aboriginal stuff in Australia and, um,
I find like Aboriginal spirituality really interesting, right? Like they've got this,
what, what we understand as this kind of mythology, but it was this belief system about the world and,
and like the dreaming and how everything kind of emerged from this dreaming time back in,
in sort of prehistory and, and that everything is interconnected and, you know, and, and, and there
are also like, uh, specific iterations of this more broad concept. So the Nungar story and, and,
and so on. Like it endured for tens of thousands of years, as far as we know,
like it's, it's, it was a, a spirituality or a religion, if we want to call it that, a way of
life that was, has been way more successful and enduring than any other in human history than we
know of. Um, there's something to admire about that, you know? Yeah. Yeah. That's my serious
point. That's actually, that's actually a good point because it's like, they don't have anything
written down, which is, I guess there's nothing to screw. No, it was, it was passed on. Yeah.
Orally. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Interesting. Well, um, but it, you know, it enabled them to,
to like really successfully navigate their world and their environment as well,
which is why it was successful. It, it had explanatory power. Why are way the things they are?
Why, why, why are the, why are things the way they are? Um, you, from a historical,
from a historical perspective, and this is, this is now me just moving into
things that I want to hear. Apologies audience. So you can leave now. No. Um, but, but do you,
how do you view religion as a regard, like forgetting about whatever personal beliefs
you might have? How do you view religion? Do you view it as like history's, like humanity's
first attempt at trying to organize society and understand the cosmos and our place in the
universe? Or like, do you view it as like, um, a psychological phenomenon? Like, how do you view
religion as a whole? Like not just talking about Christianity, but like, why do cultures have religion?
Yeah. I, this is a, it's a really great, and it's a big question. Um,
religion is not a thing. It's a, it's a scholarly construct. It's a way of, you know,
it's something, it's a name that we've given to, um, in modern times, a certain subset of
human experience. Um, it seems to be a part of people's culture. And it's only sort of in the
time in modern society where, where we, where we claim that we're not religious or, you know,
like we've moved beyond religion or what have you, that we actually talk about it as separate
from the rest of culture. So I mean, that's, that's the lead into my answer, which is that it's,
it's just a part of culture. Um, uh, in terms of definitions, my definition of religion would be
a working or pragmatic definition. It's what we normally, um, uh, mean when we talk about religion
in the modern world, it's a kind of circular definition, but it's, you know, we're talking
about kind of supernatural or mythological ways of understanding the world and so on and so forth,
often, um, uh, associated with certain rituals and practices. Um, but it could be much broader than
that. And I think as a, as a historian, what I'm especially interested in is not bracketing off
religion from everything else, because that's something that we do in the modern world, but
throughout human history and in pretty much every other society other than ours, religion is not
the separate thing that is like sits in a box over here and you opt in or you opt out. It's,
it, it intersects with politics, economics, uh, um, culture, social relations, everything, everything.
Yeah. That's a brilliant thought because there's a brilliant way you put that because like
you could see like in the future, someone could see a lot of our, what we take for granted is
like non-religious, like, um, uh, I don't know, caring about the environment, um, uh, superstitions,
um, the way we interact with each other. Attending sports matches. Attending sports. Yeah, exactly.
Like sociologists have written about this, that, you know, they study these things and they say,
yeah, yeah, yeah. And they say, look, like the, the, the, the boundaries that we have in terms of
what is considered religious and non-religious are changing, they're socially constructed, um,
you know, we're like, it pretty much depends on how you define religion. And, and, you know,
there are things that we were, there are like, say, there are world religions that don't necessarily
involve belief in a supernatural deity, right? Like Buddhism doesn't necessarily. So, so like,
so you can't just say, oh, religion requires gods or like it's not that simple. It's a really
notoriously difficult concept to define. Well, okay, I'm going to ask you something. Um, that's
going to piss off all the atheists. They're going to not buy your book now. Hopefully they bought
your book already. But yeah, go buy the book. And then right now, just, um, like, could you,
could you say that, would you say that science as we see as, as, as how some people engage with
us today? When I say science, I mean, pop science, I'm talking about the scientific method I'm talking
about. Um, science as a symbol, as a construct could be considered religious.
Well, anything could be considered religious, but
you get a lot of times people will go, I don't believe in your God. I believe in science. And
it's like, what are you even saying there? What are you saying? Right? Like I'm on team scientific
method. I like the scientific method. I think it's the best tool we have for investigating. Oh,
I think me too. I mean, I think that it's, I think that the scientific method is a way of,
you know, um, establishing what is true and, and, and so on. Is it, is it
someone could take that, that word and go, well, he thought that gravity was X, but actually
we've discovered that gravity is blue, but it blew. And he was making a religious statement
there. Like someone could take that clip there of you saying it's, it's how we find that was
actually true. And like it's, it's, um, it's just, it's saying yes to that question will annoy a lot
of people because that's, that's a talking point of the apologists that, um, science is
just another religion that the, that atheists and agnostics have just jumped onto. I don't think
that's actually the case. Like from, but I feel like it's way more complicated than that. Right?
Like, you know, I mean, yeah, we can talk about science as, and the scientific method as a belief
system. And it certainly is. And somewhat, you know, it's based on certain assumptions about
reality and it, it focuses on the natural world and like natural explanations for things. Sure.
But I just feel like it's a bit more complicated than that. And also, you know, in the, in the
wake of the scientific revolution, you can't just say, Oh, well, actually, I'm not going to believe
in that. Cause like, well, okay, mate, like, you know, put down your cell phone, like stop watching
TV and, um, go, go and like hunt for your own dinner because we are entirely like immersed and
implicated in this world, you know, um, and benefiting from it. But yeah, but yeah, but
you know, it's, it doesn't mean that you have to believe everything hook line and sinker. Like,
I mean, this is part of, I think the benefit of the scientific method
that from that system is that it allows you to, I think, in an intelligent way, like adapt and
modify your beliefs based on new experience or, uh, you know, argumentation, right? So if new
evidence comes along, you can, you can say, okay, well, I used to think this and now I think that
the evidence points in this direction rather than that direction. And you haven't like
obliterated the scientific method. It's quite robust in that way.
You're like, the scientific method is like, it's what's the, well, now we're sounding like,
um, we're, we're, we're evangelizing our beliefs. But yeah, I know what you're saying. Like,
it's, um, it's its own, like the scientific method is separate to science. I'm more talking
about the way that people engage with the concept of science. Um, I don't even have the
vocabulary to describe what I'm trying to say and probably the whiskies and helping,
but I think I'm on the same page as you. It's, it's, um, yeah, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's,
it is very interesting for me. I don't know where we come from, like the universe. I don't know
any of that stuff. To me, it's all one big adventure. We're trying to find those answers.
It's very exciting. Um, but it's also, when you think about, you're like, damn, this is,
there's some, a lot of weird stuff going on in this, like how societies are formed and how,
you know, um, you know, back to what you're saying too before about, um, about science,
it's like, you shouldn't really ask the question, you shouldn't really ask the question,
do you believe in science or do you believe in evolution? I've heard some people say,
you shouldn't even ask the question, do you believe in evolution or subscribed evolution
or the germ theory of disease? You should say, do you understand it? Because it's not something
that you can just like opt in and opt out of. I mean, some people will make you think that you
can, but, but, um, no, I think, I think that's right. I think that the, the, the kind of the
apologist, so I, I mean, I don't, yeah, I don't have much, um, uh, background or, or too much
exposed exposure to this kind of like fundamental, like fundamentalism and, and, and that sort of
stuff. Oh, you'd have a blast with it occasionally, but it's not something that I spend a great deal
of time thinking about, but because, and precisely because it seems to like just completely
misunderstand, you know, I'll send some apologists your way to just tell you where you're wrong.
It just seems like a massive distraction to me from like doing the kinds of things that I want
to do, which is like, okay, well, you know, let's have a look at it really, really, what they were
up to and what they were thinking and it's like, and, and actually this is where the whole like
mythicist versus apologist debate on the history of Jesus. Well, I, I, I just, it's,
we've had so much drama on that.
Okay, cool. Like that's cool. You guys can have your discussion,
but like, I'm not out to prove, you know, like one way or the other. It doesn't really mean much to
me one way or the other, like in terms of the specifics of, of, of these things. I think that
I'm right in terms of what we argue in the book, obviously. But I think that because
like I've been following the evidence and, and it's, but, but like equally, you know,
we're not out to prove a case where we're open to changing our mind in light of new evidence
and so on. And it just seems to me that, that apologetics, it's already, it's already decided
on its truth, right? And yeah, yeah, it's, it's not, it's, it's job is not to find truth or to
tell the truth, to defend what they already can, like it means to defend.
In a, in a pop understanding. I mean, I know that there are more sophisticated
understandings. Of course. Yeah. Of course. There's Dr. Josh fell into that same. Do you
know who Dr. Josh Bowen is? I don't know. He's a, he's an amazing guy, good friend of mine. He,
um, he's written a book, you know, um, does the Old Testament endorse slavery and his, his whole
I think I may have heard of that. Yeah. Yeah. And he's written a bunch of other books. It's really
cool. And we did a slavery panel when we had, you know, he's, he's like the go-to guy for
slavery stuff, but he kind of just tried to engage into the, in the fields in, from an
academic standpoint, and he's a seriologist. He's got master's degrees and biblical studies,
these things like that as well. And you just tried to engage, but then all of a sudden people
like, no, the, you know, like that my apologies says otherwise. And then he's all of a sudden,
he's in these, he's in these debates, just like doing like Bible 101 kind of stuff with these
people who like just, and, and, and he gets a lot of hate for it. And it's like, yeah, it's amazing.
I'm going to advocate that people do that to you. I'm going to send them your way.
It's indicated. I've, this has kind of come up in terms of the Jesus uniqueness thing,
but it's like the historical Jesus you meet. And it's, it's kind of, it's sort of like, well,
if you actually know what the, like, what historical Jesus research is or what historical
research is, you can't, like, you can't say that anything is unique. Like everything is unique
and it isn't, but like a way of doing historical research is to put it in its context. So how do
you, you can't be like, it was unlike anything in its context. Well, how do you know that?
Do you know everything about everything in the past? Yeah. You know, we don't, you know,
deep drinks will soon be selling some t-shirts that says Jesus isn't unique. Dr. Robert Miles,
and with your face on it. All right. And then your Twitter account. No, I'm kidding. I mean,
I already sell that t-shirt. Oh, do you really? Do you really? No, but it's a good idea. I wish
I, I wish I'd come up with it. The, the, I should I mention you got a, I shouldn't,
I shouldn't mention because you said don't mention it, but I'm going to mention it anyway.
You, you had, and I'm only going to mention it for one reason. This is because I love your shirt.
You have a website. People can go check it out. Your shirt's so good. I'm preferred not to.
That's such a great shirt. I loved, that's the first image I saw when I looked you up when
I got in contact with you. I was like, I like this guy. Check out the website, check out the book.
It's been amazing talking to you. I'd love to have you on again. And it's been, you know,
fantastic. I mean, continue drinking Raya whiskey for the rest of the night. And thank you so much.
It's been awesome having you on. Is there anything else you want to say before we leave?
No, just thank you so much for having me on. It's, it's been a pleasure.
Oh, thank you. All right, I'll see you later. See you everyone in a couple of days for a
majesty reason. Bye.
