Is it true that that Jordan Peterson won't debate you anymore?
Well, it seems to be true.
Basically, while we were while we were finishing up on stage, he said he'd be
happy to have another conversation with me.
And then the second the debate was over, he bolted off the stage, went and
locked himself in his dressing room.
Um, and what I was told, uh, is that his manager, publicist, whoever basically
said, you should never do another event with that guy.
And so I haven't heard anything from Jordan Peterson since that night.
You are incredibly polite and reasonable.
It's, it's actually, I think, I didn't, I think that did any favors for him to be
honest, um, not, especially when he said, um, you can't quit smoking without, without
a mystical experience.
I just just like people record, report other experiences as if they were
religious or ghost or whatever.
We have no way of confirming that this, something mystical or supernatural
actually can happened.
What this is, this is about the language people from smoking.
Well, you can stop smoking without any sort of supernatural intervention.
No, not really.
You can't stop smoking without supernatural.
Really any, any reliable chemical means for inducing smoking cessation.
You can use a drug called Bupupriam.
I think that's the one.
Whatever.
Well, butron is, um, is that supernatural?
No, you don't need a supernatural effect, but it doesn't work very well.
But if you give people magic mushrooms, psilocybin, and they have a mystical
experience, they have about an 85% chance of smoking cessation.
Sure, but one treatment.
Yeah, but that's kind of like evidence, you know, it's kind of like evidence.
It's evidence that you can take mushrooms and increase your chance of quitting
smoking.
No, it's not.
It's, it's indication that if you take mushrooms and you have a mystical
experience, you'll, you'll stop smoking because it doesn't work.
Okay, if you take mushrooms and you have an experience that you
describe as mystical, um, then you'll increase your chance of smoking.
But that doesn't tell me whether or not there was something, uh, to this
notion that they had an experience that was supernatural in any sense.
I think before I even went to bed that night, I called Sam Harris, uh, or, or
met, I probably didn't call him.
I probably emailed him either that night or the very next day to let him know
basically what happened.
Here's where you can watch it because I knew that Sam was going to be doing
an event with Jordan within a month of what I did.
Um, and I think their event went really well, but I think probably the thing
I'm proudest of it, and I had really good help from a friend.
Um, Asa Mandius Ramsey's, uh, who many of you know, a philosopher that I've
had on podcasts and stuff before, he was there at that event and asked one of
the best questions, uh, during the Q and A, and it really led to some clarity.
He's exceptionally good at, at, at being able to ask the right question
that directs the conversation towards the lintspin, uh, that you need to pull.
Thank you both for a very interesting and revealing exchange.
Uh, my question is for you, Dr.
Peterson, um, you alluded to an important distinction between someone who
would actually be an atheist and someone who merely professes to be an atheist.
You implied that Matt and others are not genuinely atheists.
I'm curious why you think that.
Is it just because we have sacred values that everyone has sacred values?
What in your view would a genuine atheist be like?
He'd be like Raskolnikov in crime and punishment.
And I can't really come up with a better answer than that because it's such a
complicated question that that's the right answer.
You know, I love that book.
It's an amazing book and it's, it's a great thriller, by the way.
If, if, if there are some of you, perhaps many of you haven't read it, you,
you really should read it because it might be the greatest novel ever written.
I think you can make a case for that.
It's unbelievably exciting once you get into it.
And Raskolnikov, he plots the perfect murder.
It's so interesting because Dostoevsky, the last thing Dostoevsky ever did was
make a straw man out of his opponents, let's say.
What Dostoevsky did in all of his great novels was make his enemies, let's say,
or, or make each of the positions that he was trying to contend with as powerful
and admirable as he possibly could.
And since he was an absolutely spectacular genius, he could really do that.
And so Raskolnikov plots a murder and he murders this horrible woman who's horrible,
according to everyone who knows her, who also has enslaved her rather mentally
feeble niece and who does nothing but make people miserable consciously all the time.
And he does that in order to save his sister from a rather sophisticated
form of prostitution, to save himself from starvation so that he can become
a great lawyer and, and help people.
Right.
So Dostoevsky sets up the stage.
Here is the perfect situation for a murder.
And all of the rational choices point in that direction.
And Raskolnikov, who's also sort of torturing himself or sort of tortured
because he's sort of hungry and not very well, not thinking very clearly.
He, he undertakes the murder and he gets away with it.
And he's before he does it, he berates himself in what I would describe as
the negative atheistic style.
And he basically says, look, there is every rational reason to split
this woman's skull with an ax.
Look at all the good I would do.
Look at all the well-being I would enhance.
And so he does it.
And then all hell breaks loose.
And what Dostoevsky was, was, see, Raskolnikov built himself up to the
murder in part by laying out the rational case, but also by saying,
well, there's no God.
There's no metaphysical reason that's stopping me from committing this act.
And there's all these reasons that appear perfectly rational, pushing me
in that direction.
Perhaps I'm nothing but a moral coward for failing to undertake it.
So he does.
But what he finds out is that he broke an inviolable moral rule, something
that spoke to his own soul, so to speak.
And the rest of the book basically involves his sequential post-traumatic unraveling.
And the post-traumatic issue is very interesting because one of the things
you do see happening with post-traumatic stress disorder is that it very often occurs
in people who watch themselves do something of great malevolence by their
own admission.
I'm not projecting this onto them.
They've watched themselves do, they've stepped outside the ancient moral code
unwittingly and conducted themselves in a manner they cannot reconcile
themselves to and they are permanently broken.
So there are works like that, crime and punishment, first and foremost, I would
say, that do a lovely job of elucidating in narrative form how these self-evident
moral presuppositions are necessarily nested inside this broader narrative
metaphorical substrate and that you use your rationality divorced from that
metaphorical substrate at your peril.
And I believe that to be the case.
I think that's an accurate psychological summation.
Thank you.
I'm curious if Matt has any thoughts on the matter.
You think?
I have plenty.
So it's rather surprising and I promise you I don't mean this to be insulting
because I definitely place you considerably higher than most of the
apologists that I've engaged with, but there's a common theme from the
apologists and that is you're not really an atheist because.
Now, in Dr. Peterson's case, it's you're not really an atheist because in my
mind an atheist is someone who would be a murderer.
And so I'm just rather than saddle you with that.
You just think you're an atheist, but really you're not.
From other apologists, it's.
You think you're an atheist, but you're not because God's written as moral
codon is on your heart is what this is essentially.
As far as I can tell what was expressed in some way that there's a moral
foundation, a moral center that God has imbued people with and that we all know
this or we all recognize that or you're not really an atheist or this is what
an atheist would do.
An atheist is somebody who doesn't believe there's a God.
I am not convinced there's a God.
That doesn't necessarily mean I'm convinced there are no gods, although
that is a subset of, Hey, I don't believe there's a God.
And then there's a subset that is, I believe there are no gods.
This is, as I've talked about previously, independent of whether or not I can be
a moral being or do good things is independent from whether or not there's
all and wonder or purpose and meaning in my life in much the same way that,
you know, previously they wanted to kind of say, Oh, this is, this is a secular
humanist regime that was just awful.
It wasn't secular humanism.
There were atheist fans who wrote me that were like, Oh man, I can't wait till
you do this conversation with Jordan.
And I was like, cool.
And still, I hope that we have many more conversations as well.
Cause just saying one thing that I find irritating is never going to be enough
to get rid of me, but I asked them.
Great, I'm not that familiar with him.
What is it about him that you like and what are the concerns?
And they, they came back with a bunch of things.
None of them said anything about agreeing with views on religion.
They seem very confused on those things.
And so the good news for them is that while he thinks atheists would be
murderers, he doesn't actually think you're an atheist.
And that is his way of getting around, acknowledging things that conflict
with his worldview.
I don't get to decide who is or isn't a true Christian.
I didn't even get to decide that when I was a believer.
I definitely don't get to do it now.
So if somebody tells me they're a Christian, I'm going to have to accept that.
I have a model in my head of what that means.
I have a model in my head of what it means to be a Muslim, but I'm willing
for them to explain to me what their model is.
I know, I know people who identify as Christian atheists.
They really love the stuff that Jesus said, but they don't actually believe
there's God, you know, Thomas Jefferson famously cut out the Jefferson Bible
and removed every reference to the supernatural and miracles and things
like that, because he really admired the teachings of it.
And sure, you could, I think you could be a cultural Christian in that,
if you wanted to.
It's strange to me that I'm not sitting here with somebody like Ray Comfort.
When I'm told, you're not really an atheist because you're too good to be
an atheist.
And this is what atheists hear all the time when they come out, they've been
sidelined because of religious privilege around the world for years.
And then atheists come out to their family members or friends or people
they've known for years and they're like, you're an atheist.
How can that be?
You're such a good person.
I've known you all this time.
It's because the mindset of what people have about what an atheist is has been
poisoned by religious proclamations.
We have been denigrated from the pulpit and it is seeped into every aspect
of culture right up to the height of intellectual pursuits.
And it's time for that to end.
And Jordan Peterson Peterson is an exceptionally strange person.
We had dinner before the event and he was he was only eating meat because
that's his daughter's kick.
Yeah, the lion died or whatever.
And literally when I say was only meat, it was the food they ordered was I want
a steak, I want it cooked on a grill that has been freshly cleaned.
So there's nothing else.
I want it cooked with salt and nothing else.
No vegetables, no nothing.
Just bring me out this slab of meat.
And yeah, it was weird.
But you know, what are you going to do?
Oh, jays.
