Welcome, everyone, to Deep Drinks Podcast.
My name is Dave, and I'm super excited for this episode, like I am with most episodes,
but this episode, I had to stop myself in the pre-recording from asking you any questions
because the stuff that was coming out of the guest's mouth is absolutely gold, and I can't
wait to learn more about their journey.
So my guest today is Ryan Coltastic.
She's a content creator with 125,000 TikTok followers, and I'm going to screw this up.
An ex-exilatory pioneer of the Jovis Witnesses, and she was a Jovis Witness for 40 years.
Welcome, Ryan Coltastic.
Hello.
You did well.
I was clapping behind the stage for you.
Did I say it right?
I was practicing.
Yeah, you did good.
Auxiliary pioneer.
It's a big joke anyway, so you did excellent.
So thank you.
Well, we're drinking Margaritas, and I'm going to pour myself one, and I haven't got mine
mixed up yet.
So as I do that, I just need to jump, what is an exilatory pioneer, and what did you preach
about?
Okay.
So here's the joke.
Auxiliary pioneering is what the Jehovah's Witnesses call when you dedicate a good portion
of your time to field ministry, going door to door, letter writing, campaigning.
It's preaching about the Jehovah's Witnesses, proselytizing.
It could be going overseas, traveling to where the need is greater, so they call it.
And I, when I was young, probably spent somewhere around 15 hours, maybe 20 hours a month preaching.
So that basically equals out to a few hours every weekend, going door to door, likely
knocking on the doors of my friends from high school, and having to embarrass myself and
talk about how they could live forever.
And after I left years, years later, this is just recent, they started to change their
hour requirement.
So normally, most people will hit that 15, 20 hour mark, and that's just a normal, everyday
kind of Jehovah's Witness.
But if you want to be special and be an auxiliary pioneer, then you go balls to the wall.
Well, they lowered those requirements because not many people were reaching them anymore,
and because of COVID restrictions, so that's respectable.
And they lowered down auxiliary pioneer to 15, I think it was, or 12 hours, when normally
it would be like 30, 40, something like that.
So I was like, oh, I didn't realize that when I was a teenager, I was auxiliary pioneering.
I wasn't, but I'm going to take that title because you don't get many titles as a woman
in the JW organization.
So yeah, I'm going to snatch that title, and I'm going to wear that crown.
That's so awesome.
Yeah.
It's the same for me.
I was in the role of a youth pastor, but I was never ordained, I never got to the stage
where they spring youth before the people, I don't know what we call them in Pentecostal
churches.
It wasn't like bishops or anything, but like the higher up people, and yeah, that's years
down the track, most youth pastors don't get there until they become an associate pastor.
I say, I was a youth pastor, but for the first little while, I felt uncomfortable about that
because I was like, what if someone calls me out, what if someone's like, you were never
ordained?
I'm like, well, I guess that's true, but yeah, but you've got to claim it.
You've got to claim it.
I'm taking it.
I really don't care.
Say I was.
Say I wasn't.
I know in my heart what I was doing as a teenager, embarrassing myself all for the Lord, for the
Lord's work.
Did it make you popular at school?
You know what?
I have to say that I probably was the definition of living a double life and it wasn't, yeah,
and it wasn't necessarily intentional.
It was, it was the daily fight in my head with myself, like waking up every day, this
day I'm going to do better, this day I'm going to make Jehovah proud.
So weirdly enough, after like years of being picked on, I somehow became popular in high
school.
I don't know how I managed that, but I could do nothing with that.
I couldn't hang out with friends.
I couldn't go to the dances.
Like it didn't mean anything than other than I had friends at school who I was trying to
fit in with.
Meanwhile, I'm not necessarily behaving in the most honorable, I guess, way for Jehovah's
Witness.
I was doing my best.
I was just a kid.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Did you, what did you preach about when you go door to door?
Like, is it, did you touch on everything was like the end of the world stuff?
Did you talk about, so they, they prepare you with what is called the Theocratic Ministry.
So this is like a school that we go to every week.
It's a meeting.
So we go to the kingdom hall, to the church.
And usually I believe it was on Thursdays where we would have this school and you would
practice.
So like for me specifically as a woman, I wouldn't be able to stand at a podium and talk to people
in the audience, but I could pretend to be having a Bible study with another woman.
I could be at a door talking to, you know, a householder and witnessing.
So we would practice.
So you know, it's kind of just like MLM, it's like sales stuff.
They tell you when you go up to somebody's door, like maybe compliment something in the
yard, try to draw them in.
There are witnesses who will comb the obituaries and they'll contact people that way.
Oh yeah, it's very pretory or the right letters to people whose family members just died, you
know, kind of like an ambulance chaser, but the Jehovah's Witnesses do it in that manner.
But it would always be a pleasant message.
Like usually you're, well, they think it's pleasant.
To me, I could probably see through the facade, but to them it would be like, you know, hey
David, I didn't know if you knew this, but God intended for this earth to be here forever.
And we were actually supposed to live here as humans together with the animals.
Wouldn't that be amazing to live in a paradise where God is ruling and we don't have to worry
about Satan anymore?
Wouldn't you look forward to a life like that?
And there you have it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Wow.
We had some Jehovah's Witnesses drop off some magazines to our workplace and I just remember
it was the perfect symbolism for how religion kind of brings you in.
The first magazine had a cover and it said, is there more to life or something?
And the second one was like, how to become, you know, no, the first one was like being
a good family man or being a good family or something.
And the second one was like, is there more to life?
And the third one was like, what happens after we die?
And the fourth one was like angels and demons in the end of the world.
And I was like, this is perfect progression.
They get you in with something like complimenting your garden, asking, you know, where's your
partner?
Like, you know, have they recently died?
That's sad.
You know, are they in a good place?
We can find out like, and then, you know, eventually you get to these like crazy belief
systems where you're refusing blood and people are dying.
Exactly.
And I just thought it was so symbolic of not just the Travis witnesses, but many religions.
And yeah, I just, it's, it's, it's, it's wild.
We, so we born into it.
So this is where it gets a little dicey.
I wouldn't consider myself born in my father was Catholic and my mom.
So maybe some kind of Christian, I guess you could say, but my mom's parents started,
my, my grand, my grandmother basically started studying with a Jehovah's Witness who came
to her door one day and took a long time.
But eventually they became Jehovah's Witnesses and it didn't get to my mom until I was somewhere
around, I don't know, I would say somewhere around six to 10.
My parents were kind of dilly-dallying with it until they finally made a change and they
both converted.
So it took, it took a few years for that to happen.
It was like a slow process.
So I wouldn't see, here's the thing.
I didn't really celebrate holidays either.
So even though I was worldly, I don't know what you want to call a normal everyday person,
I wasn't really celebrating Christmas all like that or birthdays all like that.
I did sometimes get presents every once in a while, that would happen, but it was hit
or miss.
I don't really remember anything too great except for the times where we went to my dad's
side of the family who did celebrate because they were Catholic.
I remember one or two Christmases there and that was like the only Christmases I ever,
I ever had.
So yeah, it's not until later where it really took an effect for me, like a life-changing
effect.
Yeah, it's kind of weird.
Yeah, no, I am so thankful to my mom and dad because I do remember Jehovah's Witnesses
coming into our family and having Bible studies with my parents for weeks and weeks and weeks
and eventually they stopped, but mom and dad were right on the cusp of becoming Jehovah's
Witnesses and that would have messed me up, I reckon.
Your trajectory would have went, history, education, goodbye, exactly.
So what happens when someone goes from, I guess, just like normal, worldly people to
becoming Jehovah's Witnesses, what are some of the things that, like you said, no education,
what does that mean?
I'm going to reel you in.
Yeah.
Okay, so flat out the Jehovah's Witness organization teaches that education is from Satan.
It's all Satan's wicked, worldly system.
He controls the media.
He controls the governments.
He controls education.
So the only education...
Christian family members who stick the same thing.
Yeah, you know, it isn't just a JW thing.
This is, unfortunately, tactics of high-control religion.
Keep them, sorry, stupid, right?
Keep them working in laborious jobs and doesn't mean that you don't have to have brains to
have laborious jobs.
I mean, you need to know math and have to have a lot of skills.
I get that.
But when the only jobs, when they're pigeonholing you into a certain kind of job, which is usually
for Jehovah's Witnesses, like driving bus, cleaning, just things where you can be super
flexible, think of it that way, where you can be super flexible with your time because
you need to have off your Saturday mornings so you can go out and field service your Sunday
mornings so you can go to Kingham Hall and your Thursdays so you can go to Kingham Hall.
And likely for other people, again, if you're pursuing auxiliary pioneering or something
of that nature, then you need even more flexibility to be able to have off.
So you only get a certain window of career opportunity.
And there's some jobs that you're not even allowed to have because it would be considered...
Too wealthy?
Yeah, exactly.
It would be considered too worldly.
Like, I'm sure there are things like you probably couldn't be a stripper and...
Rob, right.
Oh, hey, I'm not.
Are there any that are surprising?
Are there any that are like...
Well, let's say, for instance, okay, my friend in the chat, his name is James, former to
free.
He is a welder.
Say he wanted to get a job welding for a Navy ship or something like that.
There is a possibility that he wouldn't be allowed to have that job because it has something
to do with war and government.
Right, exactly.
There's rules like that.
And see, it's really difficult because the elites, people like celebrities, it's a bit
different for them, like Serena Williams.
There's freedom for a lot of these celebrities because they can be the face of the organization.
They can look like they're living your everyday normal life.
And meanwhile, people like you and I, the little plebs, the nobodies, were getting held
to a different standard.
But like for me, I don't even like saying this.
Okay, so I used to model, I hate talking about it.
So I did use to model just for a very short period of time, but it was something that
I ended up not pursuing because it's not really, at least back then, 40, whatever, okay, it
wasn't 40 years ago at this point, but 30 something years ago, it was kind of looked
down upon in the Jehovah's Witness organization.
But we got models, we got influencers today, like things have really changed.
As long as you are making the Jehovah's Witnesses look good, they're all for it.
And people, you know, so Serena Williams could advertise beer.
She could probably even advertise marijuana and they would probably be okay with that
because she is high profile.
Yeah, because that draws people in.
They love that.
They love the fact that Prince was a JW, that Michael Jackson, but like they brag about
this stuff all the time, like in JW circles, like this is, oh, wow, see, we're normal people,
too.
Hmm.
Okay.
Yeah, interesting.
So, wow, so I guess what are your earliest memories when it comes to like being a Jehovah's
Witness when you first like, I guess, transitioned over?
See this is what got us.
So as a child, like I lived a really wild life, like really unscripted kind of life.
My parents were drug users.
So and they were very young.
My mom was 14 when she got pregnant with me.
My father was 19.
She was 15 when she had me.
So I spent a lot of my childhood at parties drinking as a child, like four or five years
old getting drunk.
I remember.
And I had a good time, but I had a good time.
And I don't even have a proclivity for drinking.
Like this is, like I'm not even, I don't know how I avoided being an alcoholic, but I'm
not.
Yeah.
I'm not.
Yeah.
So I, it was really a rough childhood.
So that's why like having those weird like family memories is just like, it's not like
a big deal for me because they just weren't a big deal.
And like celebrating holidays, like even today is just not really a big deal to me because
it never, it just never really was even when we weren't Jehovah's Witnesses.
If that makes any sense.
So, so for me, this is what got me.
Your question was like, what was like the noticeable difference, right?
Like what did it feel like coming from being worldly to being a Jehovah's Witness?
And everybody in the comment section will know exactly what I'm probably going to say,
but the love bombing, the love bombing is the first thing that you notice.
It's like a wave.
And I remember it.
I had a lot of love in my life.
It wasn't that I didn't.
It's not, it's not that my parents didn't love me.
My parents just didn't have the tools to, they were children taking care of a child.
And I was a fricking, I was a menace, like I was a menace to society, the boundless energy.
I'm, you know, trauma also, you know, you add a little trauma in there.
I'm just a weird kid.
And you know, my parents dealing with somebody, somebody like me was probably a little difficult
for them.
But anyway, so when you first come in, my parents were trying to change your life.
They wanted to get off the drugs, the alcohol, smoking, et cetera.
They wanted to do good things.
And that's, that is amazing.
And I'm so proud of my parents.
Like you have no idea.
They are amazing people.
I love them.
I love them so much for everything they have done for me.
I just feel bad that there's not better programs for people to do really good things in their
life.
So, you know, you start going to this new place.
Like I go from not really having any structure in my life.
A lot of times I didn't eat.
Like there were, there were nights where I would eat dog food.
That was all that was available to me.
Yeah.
Hey, what I still remember the taste, it was actually quite good.
Not going to lie to you.
But that was, that was where my life was.
And all of a sudden, I start to get some stability.
We're actually having dinners.
Now guess what?
Who's a picky eater now?
Because I never had to eat these kinds of foods before.
When you live off of chips or whatever you can find in your refrigerator, you know, sometimes
you're being fed like broccoli.
You're like, what the fuck is this green thing?
Like, yeah, that was a whole thing.
So that part, like, I wasn't really fond of it, but I now had all these new friends that
I was getting to see.
And because I'm just, you know, five, six years old, I don't really have to listen so
much to the meeting as long as I'm sitting there and sit fairly still, all's good.
But before the meeting, I get to play, after the meeting, I get to play.
And because we're being love bombed, we're actually being invited to people's like picnics
and like, I'm doing things like, okay, so I, I grew up going to parties, right?
Like where people are drinking, they're doing all kinds of like drugs and wild stuff.
But now I'm going to parties where there's kids, like I'm not the only child at an adult
party.
There's children I can play with, and we're having a good time.
I make like best friends with some of these kids.
So for me, it was like, I got like a level up, and it's really not until, so my parents
do this back and forth thing for several years with bubba-de-boo-ba-de-boo-ba-de, you know
how it is trying to get your life straight.
Again, I'm so proud of them for what they did.
And eventually things, I say change, but to be quite fair, like some of the stuff doesn't
change, it just kind of transmutes into, you know, like the patriarch kind of just moved
the post a little bit.
So my dad wasn't beating my mom's ass anymore, and like breaking her nose.
Now he's just a dick, right?
So like it gets better, but then when you really think about it, it could have been even better.
But again, this is the tools that you're working with inside of a high control religion.
And this is what happens when you're getting canceled by people who have no training whatsoever
to even help somebody who's an alcoholic or who are drug users, right?
So I mean, all of a sudden done, they did pretty good.
But again, it wasn't until around 12 years old that I realized, hang on a second, I'll
just realize something.
Hang on.
No worries.
I'll just keep talking.
So it wasn't until around 12 years old where I realized that I wasn't happy with my life.
I was very anxious.
And you know, now as a 40-something-year-old adult, I have the language, I have the verbiage
to describe what I was going through.
But at that time, I didn't know what it was.
I didn't know why I would shake.
I didn't know why I would always have these terrible, terrible, horrific nightmares.
Why I was obsessed with Armageddon.
I didn't quite understand what was being fed to me, like the whole gravity of everything
that's taking place.
And I wanted so badly to play in sports and do all the other things that normal kids do.
I was even okay without the birthdays and holidays.
I don't need gifts.
It's just not my thing.
I'm okay without gifts.
If you just appreciate me, that's my love language, just be my friend, love me, support
me, care about me, that's all I want.
So gifts were never a really big thing for me.
But as a Jehovah's Witness, it's like there's no, you don't really ever gift.
At least in my family, there was never really, and that kind of sounds mean.
It's just not how you show love and affection as a Jehovah's Witness.
As a child to get the affection and approval of your parents, you have to be a good Jehovah's
Witness.
It doesn't matter, at least again, and I'm speaking from experience, it doesn't matter
if I'm doing great in school or any of that.
It just matters that I'm answering at the meetings that I'm going out in service, that
I'm preparing my book study before the book study.
That's the big focus.
Things that matter.
That's the things that matter, not your education.
I just got really depressed and I didn't know, I didn't know what depression was.
And when the only feeling you're allowed to emote as a Jehovah's Witness is joy.
That's it.
So if you're not expressing joy, what's wrong with you?
When you start getting those thought-stopping cliches from people, like, well, Jehovah will
provide, you just need to dedicate your life to Jehovah more.
You need to put on that new personality.
You're doing something that's making you sad.
So you should probably just stop being a shit person.
I mean, that's really just how it feels.
And I totally, I totally understand.
Have you seen recently there was, the end of the world was supposed to happen a couple
of weeks ago and we had friends and family who warned us about it.
And it was like, it didn't happen.
But it's like, if it didn't happen, God was just giving more time for people to get saved.
So that was a win, which is like, it's funny, because like, you could make up anything and
you'd be like, I'm going to get a million dollars tomorrow.
And if not, God was using that million dollars for another person in need or something.
And it's like, so it's going to win.
And it's like, so it comes through.
Like, like, or another thing is I remember once having really bad anxiety when I was
deconstructing my faith, just randomly, I get anxiety from time to time.
And I was having like a kind of a panic attack or an anxiety one night.
And I thought to myself, I'm going to pray and that tomorrow I'm going to wake up
and everything's going to be fine.
And then I thought to myself, hang on, let's let's test this.
And I said, OK, I'm going to pray to myself or to a jug of milk.
I can't remember which one I said, and I'm going to ask the jug of milk or myself.
I said, I think I said to myself that time.
I said, David, I pray that tomorrow you wake up and everything's fine
and you're non-anxious, whatever.
Next day I woke up and I felt so good.
I went to work. It's about midday.
And I was like, I'm having a really awesome day today.
And then I then I remembered, wait, last night you're anxious
and you prayed to yourself.
And then I thought, huh.
And I was like, if I prayed to God, that would have been like a win for God.
That would have been like God healed me of this anxiety for the day.
Like this is great.
So it was like it was like it couldn't have it couldn't have.
And if it didn't, if I was anxious the next day, I would just keep praying.
There's no way to for it to fail.
There's no way for it to not work.
Right. Yeah. Yeah.
I so like you have an anecdotal kind of story of like when you pray.
And I just always felt it was being religious was difficult for me.
And I don't know if it's because I didn't grow up in it.
And I wasn't super familiar with religious ideas because I didn't
like I'd go into the Kingdom Hall with my grandparents.
It wasn't like I'd never go into the Kingdom Hall.
That's kind of typical for people who are coming into what they call the truth,
is that you're going to the Kingdom Hall for a long time before you really start
to like amp it up and get serious, because that's kind of how it goes.
That's what is expected of you.
At some point, you're supposed to take the steps that you know,
you need to take and be responsible because now you know the truth.
Yeah.
But that that anecdotal story kind of put the nail in my coffin in a way,
because I always looked at religion like, well,
if it helped my mom and dad, right, like I saw my mom and dad change,
then there's God, like it must just be me that when I pray,
God doesn't hear me like God must not like me.
I don't know.
You know, I don't know what it is I did, but that I think that's just kind
of like a natural thinking when you're not really happy in your life,
like you're not happy with some of the stuff that's happening in your life.
And like as a kid, you're praying and nothing changes.
You just kind of think, well, it must just be me.
There's something I'm doing because all these other people are saying how great
God is and all their prayers being answered.
And I'm just kind of wondering like when, like when are things going to get
better, when's it going to change?
And, you know, and like I said, it did eventually, but the problem was is I
was always living in that moment of change, like putting myself.
Well, my life can't be that bad because look where I've come from, right?
And I never really understood everything that I had truly been through as a kid
because our life was kind of put on a pedestal for other people.
As an example, well, look at brother and sister, do, do, do, do, and look
what happened to them and their life was this.
And now their life is that and look how good everybody is and look how happy
their child is and dot it out.
So you kind of just learn to fake it because everybody seems to think that,
well, you should be happy now.
OK, so what you saw, though, OK, you weren't fit.
OK, well, too bad.
So said your life is OK now.
So what are you sad about?
And that's how a lot of things are handled.
It's really difficult to learn how to articulate yourself in that world when
you should just be happy that things are the way they are now.
And I probably, I mean, my mom and dad, they probably need some therapy, too.
But I needed, I'm sure, therapy.
I can't recommend it enough to people, like, please, if you need to talk to somebody.
I think I said to people that I think everyone should get a therapy,
like everyone should go to therapy just to check in every even even if it's not
like a huge thing, but just going to like talk about some stuff in your head.
Like, I think it's really important.
It's like been life changing for me.
Yeah, yeah, I love it.
Yeah, medicine, therapy, definitely recommend it.
But yeah, so that was kind of a problem for me.
Like, I never really sat in everything that I saw, all the abuse.
Like, I never really dealt with any of that.
And I think that now I'm like at age where I'm like, oh,
I'm a lot wiser.
I understand a lot more how complex these, you know, control systems are
that are set up and it just makes me sad that, you know, our government
has given the power to churches, like it supports churches, gives money to
churches to put forward social programs for people to help people,
even some of these like 12 step programs.
And they're really just to it's just a big old circle jerk.
It's one big enclosed.
It's just another enclosed system.
Like we move from one system to another, but they're all upholding the same
roles. And if, you know, we had the money instead of giving it to the churches,
if we had those programs, maybe, maybe my dad wouldn't be still an alcoholic.
Maybe he wouldn't be having some of the issues that he's having now
because he would have got the real help he needed.
He would have, you know, maybe even been in group therapy of some sorts,
like talking to other people with the same issues.
Instead, he's reading Bible verses, you know, you have a bunch of people
telling you, again, those cliches like, oh, you just need to read the Bible
more, you need to pray harder, you know, it's all on you.
It's, it's your issue.
And if you can't fix it too bad, so sad.
And now I see how like my parents were once that great pedestal
example of people who changed.
But now on the flip side, they're not prepared for retirement because,
you know, I thought I was, I thought I was going to die before high school ended,
right? So, you know, we have a lot of Armageddon and a lot.
Yeah, yeah.
And there's a lot of failed prophecies within the organization.
It started in the 1800s.
They eventually stopped at 1975.
That was the last state that they've thrown out.
But subsequently, the message is still it's right around the corner.
So now they don't have eight foretold, but it's like, you know,
the people that we're talking about, it's like, oh, it's going to be October
4th. And then whenever that emergency, we have an emergency broadcast system
thing coming tomorrow and it's going to hit our phones.
So a lot of ex-vangelicals, weird spiritualists, I don't know what
the hell they're doing, are saying that the 5G is going to penetrate our
covid shots.
I'm getting so triggered.
I'm getting so triggered by everything you're saying because I'm just so relate.
So let me just let me just let me just pump the brakes for a second.
First of all, Mifission, just a snap.
It's so great to see Ryan.
Thanks for being a member of the Mifission.
Talking about the end of the world, right?
Derek and I did an episode on his channel where I talk about my deconstruction
process, but part of that was discovering that Jesus predicted that the end
of Armageddon would happen in his in his disciples' lifetime.
And that didn't happen.
And we go right over that.
So I recommend people go and watch that and subscribe to Mifission, of course.
But someone else to go subscribe.
Oh, amazing, amazing.
Like he's one of my favorite people.
He's like really been a catalyst to my waking up.
He's really like paved the way for me.
So I adore his content.
I know he's I could we could have a whole come.
I should just bring a fangirl if you want to talk about it tonight.
That's it.
People should also go subscribe to your YouTube channel.
So you've got Ryan Coltastic, your YouTube channel here.
And something you were just mentioning a second ago is taxing the churches
or leading to that.
Your your handle on TikTok is tax the churches.
And we can talk more about that.
And you have other YouTube channels.
I don't have them up.
But what I'll do is you sent them to me in private.
I'm going to post them in the chat now and people can go check them out.
But can you tell us a little bit about what you do
and why you want to tax the churches?
Like what about these these poor little charities
and you're just there wanting to take away their their religious rights?
No, this is one of the.
OK, well, just OK, just say, for instance, we're talking about COVID.
So I don't know how familiar you are with what some of the programs
the government was doing here, but one of them was like food boxes.
They were taking like fresh produce and things of that nature.
And they were being shipped to churches or, you know,
places where the community could come pick them up.
So the Jehovah's Witnesses got in on this food program.
So they have all these food boxes.
Well, they are telling people and I believe they even put notes
with some of these boxes that said that this was provided by Jehovah.
So it gives the members the appearance that this food came from the organization
when, in fact, this food came from the government,
right, which is coming from taxes.
But they'll be like, they'll be like, no, everything comes from Jehovah.
Like they'll find some like, oh, gosh, yeah.
Oh, yeah. Right.
And that's the cognitive dissonance.
Everything like Jehovah is going to provide everything.
No matter what it is, they will have a way in twisting it to make it look
look as though, you know, it's coming from directly from him.
But I forget, gosh, I forget how much money
would go into, you know, social systems, things of that nature
that would help people instead of going to organizations
like the Jehovah's Witnesses, because these these churches
are supposed to provide for the community a service to the community.
And a little miss pickles is going off.
Um, but their service to the community is they're proselytizing.
So their service is just wasting your time knocking on your door
with a message that's fake as fuck, because there's no paradise coming.
Nobody's going to save you.
Well, and it's also it's also counter.
It's counter to what the government sets up in regards to, like,
you know, health care and things like, oh, you need a blood transfusion.
And like, it's like, there's these groups going around, like, you know, stopping.
So it's, yeah, it's ridiculous.
And I I'm with you there.
It's, um, well, you know, when I was part of the the the Pentecostal
denomination, the the denomination, the I'll call it the church,
but I was part of the Christian Outreach Center now called Inc.
I don't know why the church should now be called Inc.
International Network of Churches, but they were called the Christian Outreach
Center, and we celebrated.
We went down to Brisbane for a business conference and we celebrated
becoming a one billion dollar, um, uh, organization.
And that was like, it was like, well done.
It was like, well done.
We're one billion dollars.
And it was like, um, I felt asleep in that meeting.
Like, no, no job, but it was all, all the, all the passes and these passes
and everyone, like from the organization came together at the conference.
And, um, and yeah, it was like, and it was, you know, a bunch of old guys on stage.
We're now one billion worth, one billion dollars.
Oh, and that's another thing.
It's just like the leaders, the, the higher ups.
It's just a bunch of white old dudes.
Okay.
There's one black man.
Okay.
Fine.
Fine.
I'll give you that, but there's nine, nine men who run the show.
They call the shots.
They've recently kicked, they recently kicked one to the curb.
It's created such a fuss.
It's been a very exciting ride for us in the XJW community to just wonder like,
Oh, why did they kick this guy out?
What's happening behind the scenes that, you know, a governing body member
just got removed.
Um, and you know, of course, being the organization that they are, there is no
transparency.
So we'll never know unless somebody leaks the information.
They keep that under wraps, but you know, there's no representation.
Women are not allowed to have any kind of authority inside of their organization.
You know, we certainly, our bodies are good enough to use.
Like you can use us for field service.
Um, we're allowed to talk to men at the door then.
Like that's absolutely fine, but we're not allowed to stand in front of a
podium and speak to the audience like the men do.
It's, it's just super weird.
And that's, that's sorry.
No, no, please.
That it's common in most religions.
Uh, I think that as soon as you have religions that have that aren't equal,
as soon as, um, in regards to the rights that both, uh, you know,
both men and women can have the, that if a religion has anything to do with
slavery, if religion has, like this just speaks to me.
Can't obviously be from the creator of the universe.
Like, unless that creator of the universe is someone that you shouldn't worship.
Like it's, it's, uh, yeah, it's, it's silly.
And you mentioned something before we started that blew my fucking mind.
Oh, yeah.
I can't talk about that.
You didn't know that.
I didn't know about this.
Yeah.
Let's talk about canned ham, right?
That's what you said.
Can't tell us about this.
So like the curse of the curse of black skin or something.
Yeah, I cannot believe that you have not heard this.
Everybody in the audience has probably heard me like talk ad nauseum about the
curse of ham.
So this is not just a Jehovah's witness thing, but I can specifically
speak to the Jehovah's witness beliefs.
So when in the story of Noah, when you find out that Noah, well, excuse me,
when Noah finds out that his son has supposedly seen him naked, and I actually
think that the story is more like his son, Ham, had sex with his wife.
That's what I believe the true story is.
And then we have a watered down, edited, redacted version in the Bible.
But I believe that Ham has sex with his mother.
She produces Canaan, the son Canaan.
And because of that, Noah curses Canaan, the child.
But Christians, misreading the verses, put the curse onto Ham, the person.
And because that's, you know, the Bible has all the lineages and genealogy.
Well, Ham produces black skin.
So they say that the curse that Noah put on Canaan was for the group, the people
of Canaan to be slaves, because that's the curse, is to be slaves to the brethren.
So therefore, black people come from Ham and they are to be perpetual slaves.
That is how the Jehovah's Witness render it.
And that's how, like Catholics, I read this one book, The Edicts of the Catholic
Church, and it goes back hundreds and hundreds of years, and it just tells all
the different church fathers who said that black people were cursed because
they were sinful.
That's why their skin was dark like that.
Just all kinds of disgusting, demoralizing, demonizing thoughts.
And eventually, obviously, this belief slowly went away.
But it wasn't until, I apologize, I could get you the exact quote, but it was
somewhere around the 1800s, I believe.
The curse of black skin was finally removed, like in the church books.
Right.
Whoa.
So can we still get our hands on, I guess, early 1800s or 1700s?
I have a book.
I have the book.
I use it all the time.
It's Maxwell Something.
But yeah, just remind me, and I'll get you the link.
It's online.
You can look through it.
All the church fathers that you know and love are in there talking about why
black people should be kept as slaves because it was good for them, et cetera,
et cetera.
Does it go, whoa, does it go back to, does it tie that connection with ham?
Or is that, or is that?
They talk about, they talk about ham as well.
Yes.
Yes.
They, they go through why they own slaves, why Abraham owned slaves.
It's, it's wild that you can just take old literature like that and weaponize it against
an entire race of people.
And then, like, do you know about the slave Bible?
I'm assuming you know about the slave Bible.
I know about the slave Bible.
Okay.
Like I've done way more on slavery than I've ever wanted to.
Tell us about the slave, tell us about the slave Bible.
Yeah.
And I tell us about the slave Bible.
So the slave Bible, again, is a very redacted Bible that is literally taking out,
taking out everything except for the parts where you're supposed to obey your slave master,
be a happy slave, be in subjection.
Yeah.
They, they had nothing, nothing about freedom, honey.
Uh-uh.
No, no, no, it's all about oppression.
Yes.
That was if they were allowed to read, if they were allowed to read, that is what they could
read is that Bible just pure indoctrination.
Yeah.
And, you know, if you're teaching people that this is their holy book and their holy book says that
their skin color, like the watchtower even put out an article that said that black people
could pray and their skin would turn white.
And they even gave an example of a black man who prayed and his skin turned white.
No.
Oh yeah.
Really?
I have, we have all the screenshots, honey.
Oh, I mean, this is like probably 1900s.
That's still not very long.
That's not long ago or something.
Oh no, no, it's not.
But to Jehovah's Witnesses, see, this is the problem.
For Jehovah's Witnesses, we're not allowed to look at outside sources.
Like we have to be very careful with what we can research.
Like, thank goodness for the internet today.
But back in my day, I mean, we didn't really have access to this kind of information.
But what the organization has done is anything that's in print, because that's
where you really search your information is what's in print.
They'll just tell you, hey, all your revelation books, let's say, for instance,
all your revelation books, you need to hand those in or you need to destroy them.
So anything that they just don't want people to know about or forget about,
they just poof, it just it just disappears just like that.
And the witnesses are never the wiser.
It's like the 1984.
Like it's like that.
It's like it's like it's like the thought crimes and, you know, rewriting narratives.
It's it's bizarre.
Yeah. How does so?
How does the Jehovah's Witness?
So let's get into the doctrine of Jehovah's Witnesses a little bit.
How does it differ from from?
How did it start?
How did it differ from normal Christianity on normal?
Sorry, I shouldn't say normal Christianity.
How did it differ from from Protestant or Catholic Christianity?
So so the organization started with one man.
His name is Charles Taze Russell back in the 1800s.
He was part of I need to do more research, but he was part of the Millerites.
I don't know if you heard of the Millerites, but they were another like Bible group.
And that group was part of another group.
Like it's just all these sex that started to pop up around like the 1700s.
There was just like this fever, this fever pitch of all these religions
being created that wanted to read the Bible with the intention
that they could figure out when the end of the world was coming.
So like all of these doomsday religions started to sprout.
And then, you know, from each one, all these other ones start to come.
Like the Mormons and JWs and Seventh Day Adventists.
Like these are all like kissing cousins.
Like we're all super similar with some of our beliefs, not everything, obviously.
Like, you know, each one changes and adapts just like religion has changed and adapted over time.
Like we're all just taking these similar motifs and twisting them to our liking.
That's exactly what like Mormons and Jehovah's Witnesses would have done.
You can see some similarities, but then huge differences in other things.
Mormons are allowed to get an education.
Jehovah's Witnesses are not allowed to get an education.
Oh, wait, shoot, I forget what you were asking.
That's fine.
This is the time that the whole starts to take effect.
Right. I'm like, oh, it's tasting pretty good here.
Yeah. So like how did Jehovah's Witnesses differ from like Catholics and Christians?
So, OK, so obviously there's the holidays things.
We don't celebrate holidays.
The only holiday, if you want to call it that, that we celebrate.
It's really a memorial is we memorialize Jesus's death where we pass the wine.
They eat of his flesh.
And those who eat of that are going to be the ones who go to heaven.
So we don't I keep saying we like I still believe, but you know what I'm getting at.
So we don't they don't believe that the majority of people are going to heaven
because that's what kind of Catholicism banks on is like, OK,
you're going to get this reward, you're going to heaven.
Everybody goes, you just got to like believe in Jesus.
But Jehovah's Witnesses believe that the earth is going to turn into a paradise.
So for normal, everyday Joe's like you yourself and me,
our hope is to be able to live forever.
So a resurrection, you know, if we're good enough or deemed good enough,
we'll be resurrected to a paradise on earth.
We'll get to live forever in these beautiful bodies.
God's going to pick an age where like our bodies were tip top shape.
I don't know, like you want to send me back to like 21.
OK, honey, that works for me.
I love that.
And OK, so what else do they do?
OK, no trinity whatsoever.
They say Jehovah's Witnesses say they don't prophesy,
but that's all they're doing is prophesy when they're prophesying
when the end is going to come.
So like, please, like save that for somebody else.
Like, I see what you're getting at.
What are some of the other big differences, y'all?
Y'all in the comments section probably know better than I do.
But that's skeptics and scoundrels,
this and 14th full moon every spring is Jesus night.
Eric.
I see 14 baby.
Yeah, what is that?
That's isn't that the date when Jesus died?
That's the is that I have no idea.
We were more into the speaking in tongues and healing people kind of Christianity.
So I didn't we didn't mention to a lot of this.
Yeah, none of that.
We don't. That's like bad.
That's like devil.
That's demons working for you, my friend.
I don't know if you knew that, but you were possessed.
Oh, damn it.
It's hard to tell you.
I don't have to say my friend and boss in the chapter four
said Satan controls me.
So that I love it.
I don't know. I hope.
I keep asking him to come talk to me in the middle of the night.
You know, everybody keeps ranting and raving
that like we listen to this bad music.
We say bad things about God that demons are going to come
have sex with us in the middle of the night.
And hello, I've been waiting and nothing crickets.
My basement is flooded waiting for Satan to come take me.
I'm thinking about doing something similar,
or at least talking to the person who's done this.
But there is a person on TikTok who has asked every witch of religion
to curse him and they've sent him stuff.
He's put under his pillow.
Like he's like he's done it.
I saw that he sent them his head and he's just like,
I'm still not cursed. I'm still not like nothing's happened.
Yeah. Like so I thought of doing that myself.
But then I here's the thing.
Like I want people to have their beliefs.
Like if it makes you happy, like do you I just don't want your
shit interfering with my autonomy.
Yeah. And do what you want to do.
That's how I that's how I express my religion of naturalism.
This is going to be clipped for a debate that I don't know the future.
No, I'm kidding.
So let me one of the things I want to talk about in the doctrine is why the
why can't you guys have blood?
Sorry, why can't Jehovah's Witnesses have blood transfusions?
That's bizarre to me.
So it all goes back to the dietary, a dietary law.
In Leviticus, where it says that you're supposed to like pour out the blood
on the ground, blood is sacred.
So even Jesus.
So that that is literally the scripture.
I think there's another there's another scripture in Acts or Romans
where it says something about not eating stuff, sacrifice to idols and blood.
So it's mentioned again, but quite frankly,
it's not really speaking about blood transfusions.
It's still completely different eating blood versus, you know,
it going into your bloodstream.
You know, I couldn't take blood to sustain my life.
It's right.
Like I can't just do that and eat another thing.
That's not how it works.
And Jess, it says like it says to eat.
That's where I get confused.
Right. So they've taken they've taken a dietary law and specifically
changed it into something to kill people.
Now, other people will say that this is, you know,
oh, they're just doing what they think is the best.
I don't believe it.
I think this is a purposeful thing that they've done.
I think they want to create victims.
They want to create martyrs.
They enjoy this perpetual victim mode.
And these people are considered heroes.
The people that die, the children that die, the thousands a year
that die from refusing blood.
They get put on the cover of the J.W.
magazines. So these are these are heroes to the community.
So that's why, in my opinion, it's like a trauma bond.
They do all kinds of things to get us psychologically connected to other people.
And, you know, when you're in the hospital and the doctor,
the nurses are telling you, you will die if you do not accept blood.
I absolutely think that, you know, if you want to have a procedure
and not receive blood, like that's on you.
That's fine.
I think there are procedures that can be done without blood.
You know, it is a risk.
It's just it's another risk added to the procedure that you're having.
But if it comes down to saving your life, right?
Like if it comes down to saying, like my child on the table is either going to die or live,
I would save my child.
But Jehovah's Witnesses will fight to let their child die.
They will have other brothers, which is called a hospital liaison committee.
These are people who are meant to come and sit with you to ward off
every single like nurse and doctor who come and try to whisper to you,
to talk to you, to save your life.
And it's coercion to die.
You're sacrificing your child to a God.
When Jesus said that he wouldn't even obey the Sabbath
if it meant saving somebody's life.
So it doesn't make sense.
That's why I believe it is intentional.
So I've heard stories.
I don't know if this is true of Jehovah's Witnesses
like arriving at the entry of a hospital to stop family members
from coming in to try and convince the person to have a blood transfusion.
So there'd be Jehovah's Witnesses in the bed dying, needing a blood transfusion.
And they'll send, you know, members of the church or members of the church
will stay in the in the main lobby area of the hospital
and stop other family members from reaching them
to try and convince them to take a blood transfusion.
Is that have you heard of stories like that or is that?
Well, I experienced I have an experience with
they didn't have hospital liaison committees at this time.
But of course, they had vultures that would do the job of a hospital liaison committee.
So Jehovah's Witnesses carry what is called a blood card,
just in case there are people in the audience who aren't aware.
And you just carry it with you and it basically rate waves your right,
not waves your right, excuse me, it it's a direct a medical directive
telling whoever the EMT, whoever is taking care of you,
you do not want want blood because you could be passed out.
So on the card on the back of the card are numbers for your emergency contact.
So let's say, for instance, you have an emergency blood contact card
and on your card is not even your mother's phone number,
but the but brother's so and so's phone number.
So that way, the doctors call brother so and so and say, hey, David is here.
He's going to die. He needs a blood transfusion.
What do we do?
Let him die. We're on our way.
We're on our way.
We're on our way to make sure this guy does not take blood because
God forbid, we wouldn't want to have to shun him, but we certainly will.
So anyway, my story, my grandfather,
he was an avid motorcycle rider and a woman clipped him
like tried to go around him on the shoulder when he started to turn.
So he turned and she literally drove right into his leg
and took his leg completely off.
So obvious, excuse me, from his knee down, took his leg off.
And he bled so much that by the end of it,
he was down to like four pints of blood.
And I believe a normal, healthy body is somewhere around 12 to 15, something like that.
And I remember because I was
we're going back in the ball.
I was pregnant at the time and I was disfellowshipped.
So people were shunning me.
But some people were kind enough to still like be kind to me
and talk to me, but some people just kind of like looked at me
and didn't want to talk to me because I was actively being shun.
But I remember like just the rush of the doctors and he needs blood and that.
And no, we can't know he and he was awake.
He's adamant he'd rather die.
Like that's just how he'd rather go.
Thankfully, he lived. Thankfully, he lived and lived a long life as well.
He my grandfather is very tough man.
But yeah, I experienced being afraid that my grandfather
was going to die right in front of me and he was just like, let it happen.
So it was really touch and go for several hours and somehow he pulled through.
But my big passion is telling people about like in this country,
the infant mortality rate, like the maternal mortality rate,
like our hospital system is just it's not that great.
Like our health care, excuse me, system is not that great to begin with.
And then you add this other layer of, you know,
what is one of the biggest things that happened to somebody after they give birth?
They hemorrhage and it's it can happen at any given moment.
I mean, it can happen while you're pregnant.
There's so many things that could go wrong where you would need a blood transfusion.
Your child might be born needing blood
and you have to let your child die.
Could you imagine going through a day of labor
to then just say, well, I have to let my child die?
It breaks my heart, but it's common.
Sorry, I just threw a lot of stuff at you.
No, excuse me for being frank, but no, it's fine.
Comes across as a disgusting fucking religion like that.
Oh, it's disgusting. It's atrocious.
Imagine being imagine being someone.
And I'm sorry if I've offended anyone who may be a Javis witness or something,
but like imagine getting that call,
you being a brother of the or whatever,
and knowing that you have to make the call whether or not someone dies.
And this victim complex that you have is totally made up.
No, you're not a victim like this.
This like we are the we are the salt of the earth.
We are waiting for Jesus's return.
We're trying to save the world is totally made up.
And you're you're creating yourself like you're a victim.
You're you're making yourself out to be a victim
while you're perpetuating the death of infants and people who
and what's even worse is there's no direct.
It's it's like a very ambiguous scripture.
It's like, you know, very wishy-washy.
You know, it's like I don't even think it's ambiguous
to be quite frank, I think it's just a dietary restriction
and got shit all to do with the medical field.
I I can't even believe that people fall for it.
There's nothing else like they don't pay attention to the other parts.
Leviticus, they're not worried about their cloths mixing.
They're not worried about eating seafood.
Why the that's why I'm telling you it's seedy.
They do this on purpose.
It is intentional. There would be this is a this wasn't from inception.
This belief this belief started, they like touched and goad with it
like somewhere in the 50s is where they were like figuring it out, I think.
And like I've had this conversation with one of my girlfriends
who is a doctor and we were discussing like breast milk, breast milk
has like different is it white blood cells?
I forget, but it has like blood cells in it, certain.
Um.
Shots, I can't even think of the word have.
Immunovable word.
Yeah, that. Yeah, thank you.
Vaccines have blood in it.
So if you really want to be nitpicky, then you couldn't breastfeed your child.
You couldn't get your shot.
That makes no sense whatsoever.
I I think it goes even a step further in that.
That this magic, the magical thinking,
the magical thinking of, you know, superstition, religious belief
and things like that at a certain level, they you start to have to ignore science.
You have to ignore evolution.
You have to pretend you have to ignore those things.
And one of the things that you have to ignore is, you know, evolution.
And but eventually gets to the stage where.
Where you start having to become a conspiracy theorist,
the government's trying to kill us or whatever like that, whatever reason.
I have friends like this.
And I have friends who rejected getting the COVID vaccine.
I know a lot of people do.
But one of the things that that was shocking for me is, I know I have friends
who said they would rather die than get a blood transfusion
from someone who has had the COVID-19 vaccination.
Wait, what? Yeah.
So they would rather die.
They're like, if I'm not taking blood from anyone, unless you can prove to me
that they hadn't been vaccinated with the COVID-19 vaccine.
And this is what I mean is like is like religious thinking goes so hand in hand
with conspiratorial. Oh, my God.
And then you come to the same problems when it comes to people's health
and like what's important, you know, it's it's it's it's something I'm really
that's really bothersome for me.
And actually, Hank, I usually do the Superchats at the end,
but Hank, for she sent a 10 dollar super chat on the same topic.
And so I'll just ask it now.
I understand.
Jehovah's Witnesses have been blood transfusions.
But how do they reconcile mosquito?
Like, what if a mosquito bit Jesus and then bit someone else next knock on door?
I want to ask them this, you know, but it's a very good question.
Like, these are all the things that, you know, if you, in my opinion,
if you were any kind of religion
that considers itself to be like proactive and wanting to really learn
and keep up to date with, you know, all the new understandings and the science.
And that would be the kind of question I'd ask.
But they've not even asked the question, like,
should we be doing this?
Should we even be telling people?
No, like you're killing you're actively killing people.
And I believe I read us.
I've done this research.
I have a crap ton of notes.
I can't recall the numbers off the top of my head, but it's around like a thousand
this one Singapore study was like a thousand people a year die from refusing blood.
And that's that's not insignificant when you consider that you're dealing with a,
you know, a certain group of people.
I don't know if I mean, unless anybody else knows there's another group
who refuses blood transfusions, but you're dealing with like eight million ish people.
So you're kind of like taken away from your your pool because
matter of fact, the Jehovah's Witnesses, like when they're going,
they're doing their door to door preaching work.
They're not really getting a lot of converts.
They're this that work is just to keep them busy.
It's a it's an exercise in futility.
It's on purpose to keep them busy, not really thinking.
It's also so that way they get the door slammed in their face.
It's that reinforcement that we're different.
It's us against them.
These people aren't like me.
They don't want to understand what I'm trying to say.
I want to save them.
They're not getting it.
And they consistently will refer like to Noah's Ark.
And they'll say, you know, Noah went and told everybody, hey, God's going to make it rain.
He's going to make it flood.
And they laughed at him.
And it wasn't until the doors were closed on the Ark, they were banging on it and crying.
And that's exactly what it's going to be like with all these people that I have
knocked on their doors.
They're going to come to the Kingdom Halls.
Such a such a cheap way to feel superior, isn't it?
Like it really is this.
It's very self-righteous.
It's the the religion is very like you're very self-centered.
You're very judgmental.
You are in a go.
No, go, go, go to ask me a question.
It is my most religions like that.
But masquerading is humble and masquerading is like as a queen.
And yeah, exactly.
Oh, yeah.
That I think that's part of the like aesthetic.
That's what they want.
They want, you know, the outside world to see them as these very humble, pleasant people.
They will come to your town for their conventions and they will leave the convention
center even cleaner than when you left it and they'll bring their business and their attitudes.
And oh, gosh, it's just a joy, honey.
They just want your money.
These these cities are just fighting over your money.
They don't care about you as a person.
They're not looking to switch religions.
They just want you to come to their stadium and then go visit their restaurants.
But, you know, to the Jehovah's Witnesses, when they get like a puff piece, you know, OK,
so they have a convention and then they see themselves on the news.
Oh, Action Six News was here and they were showing like all the people coming
into the convention center is an awesome for everybody to see like how great
Jehovah is and to them, that's like their whole like that's their whole world.
But in reality, they're not really getting converts.
It's just the children who are being baptized into this system over and over and over.
But they're not really getting new people to come because most people are kind of
starting to see through the bull crap.
Not everybody. Not everybody, obviously.
Not everybody is like up to date and use the social media and not everybody
researches organizations before they join them when they really should be
researching even religions before you join them.
So it's just like, oh, there's those Jehovah's Witnesses.
They're really nice, but it's not for me.
And that's the whole game.
That's the game for the organization.
The people don't know that.
They think they're supposed to be winning people over and they're going to keep.
They're going to take those nose like vitamins and pop them and I'll get them
next time, but the organization knows they're not going to really change hearts.
But as long as they keep you busy.
Thinking that's what's happening.
You won't have time for hobbies.
You won't have time for Google.
You won't have time to talk to your friends at work.
You're just going to be nose to the grind, preaching the end of the world
because you know, it's going to come any day.
How, how does the Jehovah's Witnesses look at, say, the gays and the transgenderers?
Like, the gays.
I'm sorry.
Actually, I had a friend, I had a gay friend.
He's like, you need to stop calling him.
You need to stop because he's a gay friend of mine.
He says, you need to stop calling it saying the gays.
I'm like, I say it as a job.
Like I say it, it's funny.
That's yeah, it's off the hangover.
It's like, I heard he's a gay.
Yeah, my entire family, like we're just very gay out there people.
So we say stuff like that, too.
We know it's with love.
It's absolutely love.
I just didn't clarify.
I just, I can't really clarify, clarify for people because like, what?
No, I'm a huge ally.
But, but, um, yeah.
So what are they like?
How do the Jehovah's Witnesses look at that community?
It's very, it's very hate the sin, not the sinner.
Yeah.
And we all know that that's like just one of the biggest like bullshit things
because if I say anything bad about Christianity, like they won't accept.
If I say, well, I love the believer, but I hate the belief.
Like, still, you can't talk about my God.
Well, it's kind of like the Satan thing here, buddy.
I'm making an analogy analogy and you're not picking up what I'm putting down.
So why is it OK for you?
But it's not OK for me to say that.
And the Jehovah's Witnesses will put forth like, oh, no, we we we love
gay people. They're they're one of, you know, Jehovah's people.
But at the end of the day, it's wrong.
It's a sin. They say they're going to die.
One of the higher ups, the governing body member, Stephen Lett,
his nephew was a gay person.
And sadly, he took his own life.
And this man had the fricking audacity
to use his nephew's tragic story to say something to the extent of.
That people know when they're resurrected, they won't be able to,
you know, basically be gay.
So so he's he we know who he's speaking about,
that he's speaking about his own nephew.
And it just breaks my heart that, you know, this is this is reality for some people.
They believe that God doesn't love them.
And that's just that my heart hurts for them,
because I don't look at the Bible and see any prohibition against homosexuality.
I don't think that it's there.
I think that's what Christians want to put in there to, you know,
put forward their hateful ideologies and their rhetoric.
But I don't think that because that that that didn't even exist then.
That just wasn't a thing.
So I think I disagree with you.
But there that's absolutely.
Yeah, that's that's fine.
But there is a book that I think you would love.
It's called Christianity and Social Tolerance.
And it's about how the church has changed their perspective about homosexuality
over the course of like the last.
So I think I'm on the same page with you in a lot of ways.
Like, I think that the way the church handles it.
But I don't know if I I think there are some verses that that comes across.
I see it as more as the actual
from what it's been explained to me, I guess I should erase, erase, erase.
As it's been explained to me that it's more of the penetration
that is the issue and it's looked as like.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Person who's getting punished.
Right. But it's not necessarily like they didn't have that.
Well, from what I'm told, they didn't have that term, gay, that,
you know, boxed in term.
It's the it's the act of it's the act of.
Right. Because now I'm on I agree with you there.
But you know, like it's like so stupid, like, why do you care?
What's between my legs?
Why do you care if I'm eating box?
Like, this is just none of your freaking business.
What I do in my bedroom, like just it's pervert.
You're more perverse than I am because you want to know what I'm doing.
Yeah, there's there's an amazing poem by Falk.
Oh, it's from the 1600s.
I'm not going to remember the name.
It's quite at the start of Christopher Hitchens book.
Oh, my gosh, what is it? Oh, my gosh, the marker is hitting me.
I don't know.
God, it's not God.
It's not great.
It's OK. He says.
It's created sick, commanded to be sound.
That's like the line, the punchline created sick, commanded to be sound.
And it was actually a Christian poem.
But it's like, but he's using it.
He uses it at the start, like, because it's like, yeah, you are.
You created a certain way and then told it's wrong.
You know, I made this, you know, so funny.
I made this. I have the weirdest video.
Falk Greville.
I don't think people get my humor.
No, no, no, but but I literally like made a video where like I was a baker.
I was God and I had a bent pan and I was making bread that was deformed
and getting pissed off again when when people wanted like a discount
for the fucked up bread.
And then like when people were like, hey, do you want to like get a fresh pan?
You want to know this is the pan I made.
I'm going to keep what he keeps getting pissed off about the the bread being a
problem when he's the one make anyway.
But yeah, that just kind of reminds me. That's amazing.
You know, I was going I filmed it.
I never recorded it, but I was going to do my like first skit.
And the first one of the first I was going to do is when I when I had
we had our little boy Atlas and or it was around the time we were about to have
him and I put a little camera in his crib and I hung over the crib.
And I and the text was going to be text that says like Christian parents be like.
And I was going to say all the things to the baby, like just my face,
that I was that Christians don't say but that they they mean.
So like you were you were born in sin.
How you you're you're you're you're destined for hell
unless you accept our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.
Oh, beautiful, perfect, right?
Like, you know, you were needed in the room.
Yeah, you better not be gay because God hates homosexuality.
Like, you know what I mean?
Like, and just like all the things that actually come with Christianity
that I never thought, you know, that aren't actually verbalized.
You imagine someone saying that to the kid, it's it's yeah.
But that's normalized and that's like how people become radicalized
because they they hear these things and things think that it's normal
to go to somebody's door and tell them there's a possibility
that they're going to have to tell their child they can't live
because they need a blood transfusion.
I mean, they won't do that.
But that is the reality of like what's happening.
I wish they just like came and like gave the the the strongest before.
Like just yeah, like like not like, you know, there's more to life.
Or do you know how you can be happy?
Like, just like, do you know,
blood transfusions are actually, you know, of you know, of the devil?
Like, I wish they just came.
I have a question that my my mom asked me to ask you
and she's going to watch this when she gets back from work.
But all right, mom, is Jesus an archangel?
Oh, yeah, that the Jehovah's Witnesses believe that Jesus is Michael,
the archangel. Where do they get that from?
I honest, I'd have to do the research to tell you,
unless maybe Eric or somebody else knows in the audience, I cannot remember.
I can get back to you on that.
But yeah, that actually I remember people laughing at me in fifth grade.
In fifth grade, because, you know, we're supposed to like as your
Jehovah's Witnesses, you're supposed to go to school and preach to people.
And I remember preaching to people like I just learned this whole thing
about Jesus being Michael, the archangel.
So I was telling people like, yeah, Jesus is Michael.
Oh, and I think it has also something to do with
because that can also now put Jesus into the Hebrew Bible, right?
That's always like something, you know, Christians want to do
as they're trying to retroject his ass back into history.
Well, and they have a very specific translation of the Bible.
But what I want to ask and they say it's the most accurate or whatever.
What I want to ask is that they say that, right?
Though, like they say it.
Yeah, but but we find new manuscripts all the time
and things are being adjusted all the time.
So. Like, I'm confused why they think they have the best
when we have later newer manuscripts.
Like we have manuscripts that are earlier
or that that change our understanding of things that like things need to develop.
Like how like do just the Jehovah's Witness Bible change?
Is it different translations or changes?
So it's changed, but it's only to back up like there.
The watchtower there.
Exactly like their beliefs.
But like, for instance, John one one and the word was a deity.
Like it's it says something like not the word was God, but the word was a deity.
So like Jesus was divine is what like John one one is trying to say, right?
That's it. But they say they change it to.
Damn, I can't remember, but it's just like one word that they change
just to make their theology a little bit.
It's not. It's just like it's either was or is.
They changed either the was to it is or the is to a was.
So that's it. So it's just a simple word.
But it can completely change like the theological process behind it.
Because so because other people use that for their Trinity,
but they don't believe in the Trinity, but they want to put Jesus in the beginning.
So that's their that's their end to say like, oh, yeah,
Jesus was there at like creation.
He was there with God, like God used him.
Like they put Jesus probably in the let us make man in our image.
Yeah. Wow. Wow. Wow.
So so video media are my boss.
So Michael slash Jesus came and told Mary that he was getting himself.
I thought that that is that Gabriel, guys, I am not sure.
Like I haven't really looked at it.
And someone said it's Gabriel.
Jump to. Oh, a God, instead of God, thank you.
So they just changed one word and put a God, because he is a God,
but he's not the God.
Since God's word, no, it indicates that too.
I have a bar. Yeah.
Oh, Bible teach books since God's.
Oh, one of the Jesus logic include Michael's no other than Jesus crisis.
Oh, thank you. OK, there's no other logical conclude.
Really, is that the only law?
And they'll do a lot of those like false narratives like that.
Yeah, only logical conclusion.
Yeah, no, we don't live like in a world where that's the only logical conclusion.
There's many logical conclusions.
It ain't real. Yeah.
Yeah. There's a well.
Yeah, I know it's just you have to laugh or you just end up like yeah, I know.
It's it's a it's a it's a funny it's a funny situation.
It's just so bizarre.
So let's jump on to let's jump on to some super chats as we
it's in. Thank you, everyone, who's super chatted and thank you for the members.
If you want to become a member, links in the description and obviously
just the patron as well. But thank you, everyone who supports the channel.
You make make it so much more enjoyable the community here.
And and thank you guys so much.
So we have one from skepticism scandals, five dollars.
What are your thoughts on Jehovah's Witnesses cult status?
I favor the bite model so I lean heavy towards calling them such.
Oh, yeah, I don't have a problem calling them a cult.
I don't have a problem calling them a closed practice.
Like I completely get that like cult
really has like a different connotation like in the ancient world.
Like that's what you did.
You built a cult for your God.
That's just that's the norm.
So it's really not weird.
But when you put in the whole like
control of it, like controlling all the behaviors and emotions and thoughts
and everything, then cult takes a different,
a completely different connotation.
I think it it does turn people off, sadly.
But is it like cult curious?
Maybe like cult curious, like the dabbling in a cult.
Well, I think just like.
For instance, the Jehovah's Witnesses,
we were raised being told we're not in a cult.
And I know that probably sounds weird to people.
But when somebody's standing on a podium
and making jokes about why you're not in a cult,
you just don't think you're in a cult.
You think a cult as somebody who's drinking Kool-Aid.
Who's, you know, ready to run themselves into a building
or something like that with something strapped to their body, right?
That's what you that's what they teach us is a cult.
And we don't really have the wearer with all
like the cognizance to understand everything that encompasses what happens.
And thank God for Stephen Hassan for creating the bite model.
I don't know if there was anything before that, but that was what really helped
to to shake my brain up to say, oh, my God, it is like that's
if this is what society is saying is a cult, then
yeah, the Jehovah's Witnesses are a cult.
And, you know, I will say, close practice or high control
to maybe try to not light that fire and turn like people's
back hairs up and make them like shiver and want to recoil from me.
But I can only do, you know, you can only do so much.
They're they're a freaking cult, man.
They're being controlled.
They're being brainwashed.
Their mind is mush.
My mind was mush. It still is mush.
I'm trying to make it not mushy, but, you know, that's a little difficult.
Well, yeah, same.
I feel like my brain keeps getting more mushy with the more deep drinks I do
because the more alcohol I consume at 10 in the morning.
But one of the things I want to ask is
you have, you know, you grew up for 40 years with the Jehovah's Witnesses.
Well, OK. Oh, sorry.
No, no, no, go ahead.
Well, I was going to say you grew up 40 years with the Jehovah's Witnesses
and you've only recently deconstructed.
Let's say the windows start shaking.
There's an earthquake happening.
The sky is red. Are you.
Are you panicking?
Like, are you still afraid of Armageddon?
Do you still have something like are you afraid of hell?
I'm afraid of humans.
Humans terrify me.
I I guess before I really didn't have that fear because we were always taught
that God wouldn't let anything bad happen to the earth
because the earth was going to be his paradise.
And now I realize that that was just a way to trick us to allow the earth
to be used as this like resource that we're always just grabbing at
and trashing it and using it at our disposal and not really caring
about the ecosystems that, you know, depend and the people that depend
and like, you know, drinking water.
So now I'm afraid because I realize that that things could go really bad,
really fast, that there's not a God like sitting up there
making sure that that button doesn't get pushed.
And not that I think somebody's going to go do that.
I mean, God, I hope not.
But that is what I fear.
Like, yeah, man, like this that Armageddon, that kind of stuff,
like it just does not go away.
There's some days where it's great.
I don't have many nightmares anymore.
There are far and few between.
But there's some times, like, especially during COVID,
when I first started deconstructing where I my body would just be shaking
as I was researching, because I was realizing, wow, there's nobody
who's going to stop us from a calamity.
Like it could go really bad really quickly.
And then like, I'm thinking, oh, my God, slavery.
Like we were told like slavery had to happen because we needed to prove
that we needed God, let all the bad things happen
because then when God fixes it, it's like, oh, like, you know,
you can't have the sunshine without the rain, that kind of logic.
Like, yeah, we needed slavery.
So now like all these fail systems are just like, my ship is sinking.
And I was I was really afraid, which is why like Derek, for me,
was like kind of like a lifeboat.
Like all these people who were like critically thinking about the Bible
were literally like saving me from having panic attacks,
like realizing that Moses wasn't real.
Like, like, oh, like, like little by little, I was like, oh, like,
people will actually lie to you, like straight, bold face lie to you.
Why? For gain, for power, you name it.
And I didn't know that people were capable of that.
I know it sounds naive, but that's just the kind of the world I lived in.
And realizing that, oh, yeah, people don't care.
They will just take from you.
They will see your vulnerability and they will play on that.
And religion is a huge way for the power hungry to build a system
that like you will they will have victims at their disposal just at the ready.
And if something goes bad, you know, a guy does wrong,
they just ship them off to the next place, you know, is just how the system works.
It's the same with with.
Oh, my God, I'm losing my train of thought.
It's because I talk a lot.
No, it's the it's the it's the alcohol.
It's it's hitting me funny.
I love it.
Yeah, that's my question.
I apologize, everyone.
Yeah, it's but I wanted to oh, yes, one of the things I wanted to ask about.
So when it comes to Armageddon, so do you are there like failed prophecies?
Like, when did like, how do they get around the problems that are in the Bible
that I talk about on the on the on mid vision where it's like, you know,
this generation shall not pass away until they see all these things happen.
The coming of the Son of Man, all that stuff.
How do they get around that?
People standing here will not taste death until they see the Son of Man coming in the cloud.
We'll see that.
But that's that's so simple.
All you have to do is elevate one scripture over another and they do it all the time.
Like, literally, that's what Christian theology is.
It's ignoring what verses you don't want, throwing those out and keeping the ones you do like.
You can just explain away something that doesn't fit your theology.
The Bible is like it's rubber.
It's flexible, baby.
It's the big, big book of pick and choose.
It really is.
I had no I like I was taught the Bibles and Aaron, there's no contradictions.
And now I realize it's just it's a library.
It's a library that got shoved into one book.
It had no business being made one book, especially not the Hebrew Bible
with the Christian scriptures like that to me is completely audacious.
Like, if they were up to me, if I were God, I'd snap my fingers and chop that.
They like like red sea.
I'd part that motherfucking Bible right down the side.
I asked I asked Megan Lewis, this is who's a Christian.
And I said, you know, could you know, where does it say in the Bible?
To I do say, where does it say in the Bible to condense everything into one perfect book?
Like, where does it say that?
Like, it doesn't say it anywhere in the Bible.
And also, like, you could make the argument that it could be the devil doing this
because, you know, God gave us the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost.
Maybe that was his plan all along.
You know, maybe it was the devil.
It's credit, you know, it's but then I get I'm using the doctrine of the Bible
to kind of say that the Bible shouldn't be right.
Right. But it's.
And that's tough.
That's tough, like, to play.
Like, when you're like, when I'm making content,
I think I completely confuse people with where my beliefs are
because I'll be talking about like, Baha Dada, as if he's real and a lot of a lot.
And and I have people who follow me, who worship him, right?
So here I am, like, somebody who's a nonbeliever, but I absolutely like adore this God.
And I have to, at times, like, put myself into the Bible as if I believe it
because I'm using the arguments inside the Bible to prove certain things.
You told me theology.
Right. So it's it's confusing for people at time.
And it's confusing for me. I'm like, I don't wait.
I didn't say that. I don't believe.
No, I don't actually believe it.
I don't actually believe it.
But I, hey, if you do, that's super cool.
And I'm glad that I can help you on your journey.
It's like a Dungeons and Dragons campaign
where it's like you've got to invest into the rules and it's kind of like
understand it. But but what it is is I love this analogy, because it's like
sometimes, you know, an atheist is like trying to talk to people who are in a
Dungeons and Dragons campaign and like the house is burning down.
And it's like just trying to get them to be serious
so they can leave the house because it's burning down.
Like it's like, guys, we just like pump the brakes.
Like, obviously, this is fun.
But like, let's just it's not like, you know, let's be serious for a second.
But some.
Well, thank you so much for coming on the show.
It's been it's been there's so much more we could talk about.
But I just that you're just like a well of information on this stuff.
Your channel has just got hundreds of videos.
Guys, go check out, go subscribe.
And of course, the links in the description and the links.
But your other channel links are posted further up in the chat.
You can go check out the other channels there.
But you have so much content.
And of course, on your Tik Tok as well, it's just it's just jam.
Yeah, I'm a bit of a weirdo.
I might not be everybody's cup of tea.
That's OK. I completely understand.
I just hope that you understand that it might sound like what I'm talking about
is something that I believe or practice.
It's actually just because I'm I'm passionate about it.
I think that this ancient history is super cool.
And I wish I would have known the truth about it versus being given this
like specific, narrated book, an idea when I kind of get this watered
down mishmash of white milk toast soup.
That's just kind of like like unseasoned chicken, you know what I'm saying?
But yeah, there's like the other day, the other day,
I uncovered like the fact that like lips can mean lips and like fruit can mean.
Right. And there is this one like Bible verse about a dautresses
and he was like a woman will eat and then wipe her mouth and say,
like I didn't do anything.
And he wasn't talking about eating food and wiping her lips.
Let's just say that.
And I was like and I'm talking to my rabbi friend
because that's one of the shows I do is with my rabbi friend.
And and he's like, yeah, yeah, absolutely, like absolutely.
Like we get this like purity culture, like, oh, God,
we can't talk about penis and vagina.
And it was right there in the Bible.
There are a lot of euphemisms.
It's it's rocking.
Like you can appreciate the Bible, but you don't like believe it.
And that's in my journey.
I I'm I love religion.
I just don't think it's true, actually.
But I really do appreciate many aspects of it.
I just don't like things like Quran 434, which says to husbands,
you can beat your wives or, you know, all the jokes,
witnesses, blood transfusions, like that or people pushing against LGBT folks.
And exactly. That's where I draw the line.
If it makes you happy, if it's comforting to you, I will support you.
I would even march with you to keep your rights, to have your religion.
Yeah, honestly, 100 percent.
But the moment you encroach on me, you like back the fuck up.
That's that's where I draw the line. That's it.
Yeah, exactly.
Thank you so much for coming on.
It's been it's been an awesome interview.
And yeah, it's been great.
And hopefully we'll do some stuff together in the future.
But until then, see everyone.
Do any skits. You let me know.
Oh, yeah, we could do that.
All right.
