...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
Welcome to Deep Drinks Podcast
where the drinks are deep and the conversations are deeper.
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
grew up in these exact same circumstances and has graciously accepted an invitation to share
her story with us today. Before we start, a note on anti-Semitism. So with Kanye West
being going full-blown silly and people like Marjorie Taylor-Green believing in Jewish space
lasers, popping up all over the internet, we have a strong rule against anti-Semitism.
If you post anything that could be anti-Semitic, you'll be banned immediately.
We want to make it also clear, Faye and I both want to make it clear that although we are
discussing Hasidic Judaism in its cold form, we are not talking about Jews in general.
So with that said, I'd like to welcome our gracious guest, Faye. Thanks for coming on.
Hey, how are you? Good. How are you doing? Very good. As you may know, as you do know,
we've just had a baby, so that's been a wild ride. I was up at 5 a.m. feeding, so that was good.
Oh my God, I can't imagine. And now you're up doing this. It's fine.
Right now, I was just going to say that right now it's 10.30 a.m., which is always a good
time to drink in Australia because in Australia, it's socially acceptable to day drink. And
you've chosen a really fun drink today. So what are we drinking, Faye?
Oh, we are drinking a margarita. It's my favorite, no matter what. It always goes
towards tequila because that just does the trick. And you never, so I'm going to pour mine now,
just as we're talking, but did you grow up without, you couldn't have any alcohol in your
coat? Hey, with that, my... So we were able to have alcohol. A lot is actually centered around
alcohol. There are certain holidays, perm, which is compared kind of to Halloween. It's actually
a rule that you're supposed to get it super drunk and not know the difference between right and
wrong. As kids, we couldn't get drunk, but also Passover, you're supposed to drink four cups of
wine, which we did kind of drink wine. So definitely the whole religion kind of just centers around
wine and food. That's actually amazing because you... And then in the next... And then you know
how to wear pants as a finger. Oh, yeah. So I know absolutely nothing about Hasidic Judaism.
I don't really know much about Judaism, actually. So I'm hoping that you can give us a bit of a
crash course in your story and what it even is. Yeah, it's funny. I never even thought about the
irony of the fact that we're supposed to get drunk, but then we can't wear pants and we can't show
our collarbone, but being drunk is like a commandment. So that's interesting. I've never thought of
that irony right there. But yeah, so Judaism is a religion and then Hasidic Judaism is a small
extremist group within the religion. It's based a lot on mysticism, what people call Kabbalah,
a whole lot of mystic spiritual ideas. And everything you do is supposed to be done in a
very specific way. Even getting dressed, when you take off clothes, you're supposed to take off your
left arm first, then your right arm. And then when you're putting on clothes, you put on your right
arm first and then your left arm because the right arm is holier. So it shouldn't be uncovered
for a long amount of time. And the order you cut your nails in, you have to do every third nail,
one, three, five, and then two, then four, and then flush the nail clippings and the garbage
because if a pregnant person steps on it, she'll have a miscarriage. And everything was revolving
around these superstitions. And if you didn't do it perfectly, then something bad would happen. And
then it'll be your fault because that bad thing happens. That's amazing. So I did save this for,
maybe we can touch on this just quickly. What's the difference between Judaism and Hasidic Judaism?
Okay, so Judaism is a religion. I like to compare it to Christianity, where Christianity is a
religion with a whole bunch of denominations. And Judaism is the same thing. It's a religion,
a whole bunch of different denominations, conservative, reform, orthodox, ultra-orthodox.
And then within there, there's also Hasidic. Hasidic is a small extremist group.
There are multiple groups, multiple Hasidic groups, but they're small extremist groups
that function as a cult, kind of like Mormons, Mennonites, Jehovah Witnesses, they function as
cults, but they don't represent Christianity. So that's kind of the same thing. They are within
the umbrella of Judaism under the religion, but they're small extremist groups that function very
differently. Okay, interesting. Interesting. So maybe we can... So how did you get involved
in this cult? Like, you grew up your whole life in this cult, pretty much?
Yeah, so I grew up in... What?
Lead us through your story. Tell us about your story. Bring us back to Little Fay.
Oh, my. So I grew up in this cult. My mom actually married into it. And what's interesting is she
ended up becoming really extreme, but at the beginning, she wasn't. She refused to... There
is a thing within Hasidic groups that when you get married, you're supposed to shave your head,
and you're supposed to cover your hair like with a turban, but then around your husband,
wear a wig because a wig can be provocative. So she refused to shave her head, and that
caused some friction between her and my grandmother, her mother-in-law. But then she ended up becoming
way more extreme. Growing up, we had to wear pretty much only black colors, no nail polish,
anything like that. We had to always have our legs covered with black tights, or we can have
nude stockings, nude tights, but it had to be a certain amount of denier so it looks... It doesn't
look as though your feet are there. You also had to have, for girls at least, you had to have...
Wear skirts covering four inches below your knee in any position, sitting or standing. So it had
to be kind of like six to eight inches below your knee. You had to cover your elbows, cover your
collarbone. Let me think. Going to school, that was a whole different story. We were barely taught
any secular studies. From first grade, we were in school from 9 a.m. till 4 p.m., and we only
learned secular studies maybe two, three hours of the day, and even then there was very little
secular studies taught. Most of our books, like even grammar books, would sometimes have the pictures
of the girls or boys blacked out in them, even though we were girls. They would have pictures
of the girls or boys blacked out in them. Science books would have certain concepts blacked out.
We were very behind everything. Like I remember when we took state tests, our teachers would
stay in the room and tell us what to write for the answers. So it looked as though we were on a higher
level than we were actually at. I went to an... Yeah, it was very different. We were also taught
like a bunch of terrifying things, which were meant to keep us from integrating and communicating
with people on the outside. We were taught that the reason, if we pass somebody not Jewish on the
street and they don't kill us, it's not because they don't want to, but it's because they're either
afraid of going to prison or they're too lazy to do that. So we were very much taught to fear
everyone on the outside and just be thankful when they didn't attack us. And then whenever
something anti-Semitic would happen, it would just instill that deeper and deeper and we'd be like,
see, this is why we have to fear everybody. This is why we stay so close knit and we don't
communicate with anyone on the outside. So you guys like, so do you mind describing,
you don't have to say where you grew up, but do you mind describing like the kind of setting?
Was it like a city or was it like a rural or was it... Oh, it was in Brooklyn. I grew up in
Brooklyn, New York. So there's a large Jewish neighborhood there. We were actually the first
Jews on the block, but soon after we moved in, a ton of other Jews started moving there.
And the entire area was Jewish. We did have like two non-Jewish neighbors, which we would only
speak to once in a while, not really, only when we needed help with something on the Sabbath.
But everybody around us was Jewish and we would know only like walking in the street,
only to trust Jews. And Jews also, because they don't trust... When I'm talking about Jews,
I'm also only talking about the community I grew up in, but because they don't trust anyone on the
outside, they set up like a community watch on steroids. They have their own police cars,
their own radios. They usually come faster than police. They have their own ambulances,
everything like that. So they would kind of always be controlling and always watching,
yeah, for everything. So we knew that we felt safe, but we also had to be watchful about like who
we spoke to and we couldn't talk to anyone who wasn't within our community or weren't people
who dressed exactly like us. Wow. Someone in the comments mentioned that it sounds like a
documentary on Netflix. Is that true? Yeah, there is a documentary on Netflix called One of Us.
It is about people leaving very similar communities to other Hasidic groups, but
still Hasidic communities. And I would say that documentary is on point. It is exactly what it's
like to leave there. Wow. Okay. I haven't watched that. I'll have to check it out. Dee also said
that they've been following the Yeshiva legal issues and they have a lot of questions. I don't
know what that means. Yeah. So there is an issue. Like I mentioned before with our secular studies,
they wouldn't be up to par up to what they're supposed to be, especially in New York.
So there is an issue. People are trying to cut funding for these Jewish schools that aren't
supplying that education unless they actually educate their children. But then
the Jewish people are saying that that's a violation of their right to religion,
of their religious freedom. So they don't want to provide that secular education.
It's so interesting how the same issue with Muslim schools and Christian schools,
like they don't want to teach. I know that a lot of Christian schools, I can't speak a lot
for Muslim schools, but for Christian schools, they don't want to teach evolution
or Big Bang cosmology, things like that. I imagine that it's even more strict in Hasidic
Jewish schools. So you probably didn't learn about evolution or Big Bang. Did you learn like
what are some things that we would expect you to learn that you didn't learn?
So it's hard to know because I only started learning things after I left, but I know,
let's say when we were learning biology in ninth grade, now I went to an Orthodox high school,
which was a culture shock because it's out of the Hasidic community. So it was a culture shock
because there they did have access to the internet. They were allowed to listen to non-Jewish music.
They were allowed to watch non-Jewish movies and things like that, but even there, and they did
teach us more, we had closer to four or five hours of secular education. So they did teach us a lot
more there, but even their simple biology, ninth grade biology, she basically told us,
read the chapter. I'm not teaching it to you, read the chapter when it came to
reproduction and stuff like that. So we did have access to the information,
but they wouldn't teach it to us. We would have to study it for the state tests,
but they wouldn't teach it to us. I do remember after we read the chapter, one girl raised her
hand. This was in ninth grade and she said, so how does this sperm get to the egg? And she was very
serious, did not know how that happened. And a lot of people don't know how that happens until they
get married. Yeah, that must be a shock. I know a lot of Mormon families, I think it is when they
first learned about how to have sex. It's a disaster in the bedroom, essentially, because
we had Alyssa Whitbeck Alexander on, and she was talking about how she essentially, on her honeymoon,
she was googling spouse or rape because she didn't understand,
like her husband didn't understand consent. And it wasn't like he was a bad person.
He just didn't understand anything to do with consent, how to have sex properly,
things like that. It could be really damaging not to learn those things.
Yeah, it definitely is. And I know many people have that issue. And even while I was growing up,
so in Brooklyn, there is a Jewish hotel where many couples stay at the night after their wedding.
And there have been, I remember while I was growing up, at least three times where women ended up
jumping, sorry, I'm trying to say the appropriate words, ended up jumping the night of their wedding
because it was so traumatic for them. So they go from not knowing anything, not being able to
be in the same room with a male they're not related to, and not being able to touch a male
they're not related to, to suddenly having to be the most vulnerable with them overnight. And
they don't even learn that they're going to have to be that vulnerable until maybe the week before
their wedding, because they take part in groom classes the week before the wedding that teaches
them what sex is. So they don't know this before. And they basically have to learn it right then.
And it can be very, very traumatizing. I'm so happy I didn't have to go through that because I can't
imagine how traumatizing that is. So they would they would stay in this hotel and they would
they would like jump they would kill themselves with they like in their lives.
Wow. Yeah, yeah, the night after their wedding. Yeah, it happened at least three times that I
remember growing up while living in Brooklyn. So within maybe a five year span, it happened three
times that I know about. Yeah. So, so, so growing up in this, in this community, this it must have
been, well, it must have been all you kind of ever knew. How did you, how did you kind of
start to, when did when did you start to consider the idea that there might be something outside of
this cold? Right. So it's funny, because I when thinking about that question, I always thought
it was later on. But my sister reminded me my sister left a couple of years after me, but
she reminded me of times that we would go outside and we would there was a hardware store
around the block from our house and they were connected to a DVD store. And back then not every
store had a credit were able to run credit cards. So the DVD store ran their credit card through
the hardware store. So we would sneak off to the DVD store, use our mom's credit card and buy
Hannah Montana DVDs, Marricade and Ashley DVDs, watch them in secret, and then crack them and
throw them and throw the pieces into different garbages. So we kind of had an idea that there
were other things out there. But even your disposal of the DVDs is like ritualistic. You
crack it, you put in different things. It's like even, even it's even a little superstitious as
well. Like that's that's that's amazing. Oh, we were terrified of our parents finding out we
were terrified of that. So we would always very be careful. They were out of the house when we
were watching them. They were always we were always very careful that they would never ever ever
catch us. So we kind of had an idea that there were stuff out there. But when I went so when I
was in the sixth grade, I was in the Hasidic school, my parents got divorced. The school wanted
to kick me out right away because our family no longer fits the kind of family that they wanted
in their family. They only wanted, you know, the perfect family, married, lots of kids type of thing.
So because my parents got divorced, they wanted to kick me out right away. My mom convinced them to
let me graduate there. And then I went to an orthodox high school because Hasidic high schools
would not accept me because my parents were divorced. So I went to an orthodox high school.
That was a huge culture shock because I was years behind everyone else in my secular education.
They allowed and required us to have internet for some of the classes. And my friends were
listening to non Jewish music, watching non Jewish movies. And like I remember the first
time I watched what was the high school musical, I was just like kind of blown away. So we did.
That was like the first time I really saw the other side. But my mom would still very much
track our internet usage. She had this program that would send her an email every 30 minutes of
every keystroke that happened on the computer. So if I was like writing a Microsoft Word document,
she would get the entire essay sent to her. So when I was 16, I snuck out and bought an iPod touch.
And I was able to easily figure out the internet password because she was not so technologically
advanced. It was the same password that was on the router. And I started researching stuff.
And that's really when I started noticing the outside world and realizing how many
different religions, viewpoints, people were out there in the world. And it was nothing
like I was used to. Yeah, I it's funny how how much how much I think it's every religion,
they they're really afraid of knowledge, like they're really afraid of like looking out there for
different perspectives. I remember thinking I remember someone telling me because for the
audience that don't maybe know me, I used to be a Pentecostal youth pastor, the speaking in tongues,
laying on of hands type. So, you know, the fun type, I guess, but but now I know I no longer
am convinced of the existence of God. So I went through a big journey. But for me, there was
moments where it was really frowned upon. It was almost seen as like it could be
quote unquote demonic for me to look into like, I don't know, secular science or evolution or
things like that. Because because the like, you know, the the enemy, as it was called Satan,
it was was trying to control was trying to win the war for my soul kind of thing. So
it's amazing where and I think I think for me, it came to I came to the realization that that
that the best way to come to a good understanding of the world is to make educated guesses not to
rely on emotions or faith and things like that, but to not educate the guests. So educated decisions,
thought out decisions, mental, you know, decisions where you really think about it and you weigh
up the evidence. And I realized that knowledge isn't a bad thing that you can look for, look at
things and look for knowledge and look at the world and information and information can't hurt you.
It just gives you more information. Right. So when you got the iPod,
I was going to just agree with you. It's funny because everybody that I spoke to that has been
in these high demand religions are called, they try to if sometimes they do allow you to have
access to the internet and they do allow you to research things. But anytime you have questions,
they'll twist the information that you got and make it sound demonic or make it sound wrong. And
like it's trying to influence you in that way. And that kind of gives more reason for them to
control you and say, this is why we don't go to the outside because they give you these kind of
ideas and they use you kind of as a not role model, the opposite of role model as an example
for everyone else. This is what happens when you go out and learn other things to become like this
person. Yeah, I think I remember being told as a kid that I said, what is evolution? And then
it was told, I was told, I'm not sure if someone at church maybe or someone, but they said, it's
a story people made up because they didn't want to believe in Jesus because they love their sin.
And I was like, okay, like that was what that's, that was the, that's as far as, yeah, this is
as far as, yeah. So, so I do want to talk to you about Christianity and Judaism at one stage,
but I do want to, I want to first learn more about your story. So you get this iPod, do you
remember, like, do you remember any shocks of like, when you first first googling things or
when you first learning about things? Do you remember the first time you made like,
porn and you would have been like, oh my God, what is this? And
yeah, I don't want to talk about that. But first, when it comes to religion, I thought there were
only three religions in the world to find out that there are over 4000. It just blew my mind
because I was like, what are the chances I'm born into the one right one that doesn't make sense to
me? And that's kind of, that's what completely shattered everything for me, finding out how
many religions there were in the world. But yes, the porn thing, the speaking God, at that point,
I was 16, I was pretending to be 19 for a while to talk to people, I made some bad decisions.
It wasn't, it wasn't the best time, not the proudest time, but there was definitely a lot
of shocks. And I remember, I mean, this is fast forwarding a while. But the first time I actually
met up with somebody to with the purpose of like, I'm going to have sex, I'm going to lose my
virginity, I'm going to have sex, I had no idea I was never educated on safety. So I met up with
a stranger in a motel room, didn't use protection, anything like that, I'm glad I didn't get anything.
But I remember the first second, like when something was going to happen, we were standing
face to face, he was like a little bit taller, he bent down to kiss me, and I just gave him the
top of my head. And the entire time I was just covering my eyes like this. And it was like the
most fortifying experience. Yeah. And I realized after like, I never thought about, hey, pregnancy,
STDs, any of that, that was never even a thought in my mind, because I didn't know that it was a
thing, I didn't know that that's like, I kind of knew that that's how you get pregnant, but I
didn't really know. So yeah, that was definitely a big one. You don't consider it, it becomes like a,
like a, it becomes like something that you never consider for yourself, because you know,
that's what that's what other people go through, not you. Yeah, it's amazing. I have some do's.
Right, we were never educated on it. Like, the only way I knew about it really was for movies and
stuff. So I never really thought about it in real life, sorry, I'm pouring myself a bit more
but I never really thought about it in real life. So that was different because yeah,
I never thought it would affect me. Later, thankfully, I did learn a bit more and realized
that it could happen to me. And it's not just a movie idea. But yeah, definitely. But going back
to, oh, so when I was 16, when I had the iPod, at some point, my mom caught me with it.
And I decided I wanted to tell her that I was going to leave, that at that point, I had already
made my decision that I was going to leave. And she, oh, this goes into a whole nother thing,
but when I originally had the, I want, I told her that I wanted to speak to her with someone else
present. The first thing she goes is, are you gay? And I am queer. But that was around the age I
first started noticing and my heart sank. And I still struggle with internalized homophobia from
that. Because that's like the worst thing for me, like, and that I could go into later. But that was
like a whole nother obstacle that I'm still actually struggling with, because I am queer. And
yeah, it was a whole nother thing. But when I told her, she first, you know, cried everything. And I
told her I wanted to leave, but I wanted to maintain a relationship with her. And especially my
younger sister, because at that point, my younger sister was four years old. And I really wanted
to maintain a relationship with them. And I knew it wasn't done. I knew people did not leave and
maintain a relationship with their family, but I wanted to leave in the most respectful way possible.
So I told her, I'll take any steps that you want me to take in order to keep that relationship with
you. So she came back to me and had a few steps. I had to finish out high school in the Orthodox
high school. I had to go to Israel and study in a seminary at a school of her choice,
like an ultra religious school. And after I came back from seminary, I had to get a job
at a Jewish place. And all the while, while I was living in her house, I had to follow her
rules under her roof. So I did all of that. Went to Israel, like, wow. Yeah. Yeah, I studied there
for a year. We had like, there was even stricter, like we had something called kosher phones,
which is like a Nokia phone. It's not even a flip phone. It's an Nokia phone. And it has the camera
dug out of it. So you can't take pictures. And it only doesn't have texting. It only has phone
calls on it. So you can only make phone calls on the phone. You can't even take a picture of anything.
We're in a lot of access to the internet the entire year. We were there.
Anything like that at all. I've I've seen, I think I was on a Richard Dawkins documentary where
someone in Israel was someone, a Jewish person in Israel was creating a a phone that was constantly
trying to dial every single number. And he could pull out certain pins that would make that number
like work. So it wasn't you weren't pressing the button, you were stopping that button from being
blocked. So and for some reason in their form of Judaism, that meant that you can make a call on
the Sabbath, because obviously you can't make calls on the Sabbath. I don't know if it ever
got anywhere. Yeah, I've never heard of that. I have never heard of that. I never heard of that
being a thing at all. I do find it interesting. I wonder what the deal I'm probably going to
research that because so there are some loopholes on the Sabbath, you can't do anything besides
even sleep, really at all. So I do apologize for the whining sound. But you can't do anything
besides for eating sleep, you can't even carry something outside, like if it's raining, you
especially can't open an umbrella. But even if an umbrella is already open,
yes, I'm just going to let my dog out of his crate for like one second.
No, that's fine. I've got a doggo too. It's a bit annoying sometimes. But just so everyone knows,
like something I learned on Pais TikTok, which everyone should go check out, is that yeah, you
you couldn't open an umbrella. So if it's snowing or raining, and it's on the Sabbath,
you can't open an umbrella. That's like, no, you can't do that. And then even then someone
commented and said, you know, can you open the umbrella on say the day before the Sabbath,
and then carry it around on the Sabbath and and then in Hasidic Judaism, that may,
correct me if I'm wrong, that could have been okay in normal Judaism, but Hasidic Judaism,
you couldn't look as if you had done a sin or something on yeah.
Right. So there are actually two reasons why you can't do that. So one is the fact that it
can't look as if you did something wrong. So if you have an umbrella that's open,
people might assume that you opened the umbrella on the Sabbath. So you can't do that. And the
second reason is you can't carry anything from private property to public property. So you can't
carry anything even if it's a key from inside your house to outside your house. Now there is a loophole
that people use, which is they run a fishing wire around the entire city that they're living in.
And really the fishing wire creates a private property. So the entire city of Brooklyn, if you
do look up, there is a fishing wire around the entire city of Brooklyn connected to the telephone
wires. And they definitely carry outside. Some people believe in that loophole, some people don't.
So you can carry, in that case, you'd be able to carry, but it can't look, not an umbrella,
because it can't look as if you opened an umbrella on the Sabbath. So something I would have said
as a Christian is that as a Pentecostal Christian is, you see, this is religion, religion is
poisonous, and it's defeating the whole purpose of the Sabbath. You know, God created the Sabbath
as a day of rest, and you're making it more effort to just have a day of Sabbath than, you know what I mean.
And yeah, it's interesting that I never would have expected in somewhere in New York,
in Brooklyn's in New York, right? I'm cheese, I'm silly. Yes. Oh yeah.
You have that. That's wild to me. That's super wild. Oh, it's a lot. And it's also like,
I'm trying to think of anything else. You basically can't do anything besides for eat and sleep.
You can't cook, so everything has to be cooked before. You can't, like even, you can kind of
warm things up if there's like a layering, so you're not cooking, so it's not on top of the flame.
We have something called a blech, but when I say it out loud in English, it kind of sounds like blech,
but that's exactly what it's called. It's like a warmer, which you can like put stuff on so it
stays warm or gets warm, but it can't be hot enough so it would cook something. So you have to
already have cooked everything before the Sabbath for the entire time. What if, what about like,
say if someone has a heart attack and they need to like get to a hospital?
Yeah, when it comes to saving someone's life, you definitely can do pretty much
anything to save someone's life. So you can, like I mentioned, the community watch on steroids,
there's also ambulance on steroids, they're called Hatsala, which is EMTs that are basically,
I remember there were at least four or five neighbors that were EMTs. And if anything happened,
like I remember one time I was carrying out, I was bringing something to the living room
in my house and I got cut and I needed stitches. Within seconds, four of my neighbors were there
and we're able to, you are allowed to drive to the hospital or anything like that. Driving back
is an issue, so we did have to walk back. But if there's an issue, you can definitely drive there
and do anything to save a life. Wow. I wonder if you could, if there's a market for umbrellas
that say, I opened this yesterday. In both English and Hebrew, I wonder if that would
get past that first rule. We've got a business opportunity. Let's go to business together.
Let me think, they do have some other things that weren't allowed and now are allowed. Like,
because of that whole idea, it's called Marasayan, where something looks wrong,
but it's really okay. Like people used to not be able to put non-dairy creamer in their coffee
if they had meat because you can't eat milk and meat together. So, but now because non-dairy creamer
is more common, you can put it in your coffee and you're supposed to, if you have guests over,
you're supposed to bring the carton of non-dairy creamer out onto the table so people see it's
non-dairy creamer. But I do wonder if that, if somebody does make it and it does say, I do wonder
if that would be allowed. There's a good question. So, so you, you completed this,
this seminary over in Israel. You came back. What happened then when you came back?
Okay, so I came back and right away I wanted to move out. I started looking for an apartment
and my mom asked me to stay. She actually bought a 96 BMW. Oh, I remember this.
You have to like hold the door closed while driving. There was a leak in the oil tank and
the place where you use antifreeze. So every morning you had to refill oil and antifreeze
and hold the door shut as you were driving, but it was a car. And she said, I'll give you this car
if you stay in my house because she knew in her house I had already agreed to following her rules.
And that was the most important thing. So what's it called again? I agreed to it,
but at that point, I had already been living alive for three years. So at that point I said,
okay, but outside of the house, I'm going to do my own thing. So I was wearing pants outside of
my house and stuff like that. My sister told me that she used to sneak into my room and throw out
any jeans or any shirts or anything that wasn't modest. She used to throw it out and I wondered.
I always thought they went missing in the laundry, but that makes sense now. But one day,
a couple of months later, after we had already made this decision, I was walking home from the gym
wearing pants and she was driving home and we passed by each other in the street.
That was the first time she's ever seen me in pants in public.
And she freaked out and gave me 48 hours to move out of the house. So I was kind of,
I was freaking out because all of my money was going towards car insurance, paying for the oil,
paying for the antifreeze and I had almost no money for an apartment. So I somehow,
I don't even know how, first my plan was to live on the street, get a membership to Planet Fitness
and go there to shower until I can save up because I didn't have a job, until I can save up to get
an apartment. But somehow I found an apartment. They were, they needed a roommate right then.
It was a shared apartment, three people, they needed a roommate fast and they didn't require
security deposit and they were $550 a month. It was like a four by four room. At first,
I slept on the floor until I was able to afford a mattress. It was only a twin size mattress.
I think I have a picture of it somewhere on my page, but it was a tiny place and I was fine.
I was able to afford it. So, and it was in Brooklyn, which was close to my job. So I ended up moving
there and I lived there for a while, but right away I got, I wasn't even focusing because overnight
I lost all of my friends, besides for one from high school. She's amazing. She's still my best
friend, but I lost all of my friends, my, all my family, everything overnight, my entire support
system pretty much was gone in an instant. And right away though, I wasn't focusing on that. I
needed money. So I got three jobs and was just working about 18, 20 hours a day and was just
trying to save up as much money as I could. Finally, I did cut it down to two jobs because I was
looking to go into college to start going to college. And in the end, I started dating someone.
Now, right away, I kind of got hooked on to that person because they were my new support system
and they had a family that they were close to. So that was my new support system.
That was my entire world because I didn't know how to create a healthy relationship
and how to manage that. So I started dating him and then we were going to move in together
a couple of months later. Now, I decided to tell my mother because I'm still trying to
maintain, I really want, my younger sister is still in there and I really wanted a relationship
with her. And at that point, I still wanted a relationship with my mother. So I told my mom
I wanted to speak to her. She told me she would not have a conversation with me unless it was with
a rabbi. So we went to a rabbi in Brooklyn. We sat down together. I told her I was dating someone.
We were moving in together. She broke down, begged him to sit Shiva, which is the process of mourning
someone's death, which isn't really done much anymore within the Jewish community. It used to
be done when somebody would marry outside the religion, but now it isn't done anymore. So
it's done by certain communities, but not by the community we were in. So he told her no. However,
I found out like about two months later, she ended up doing it anyway, because in her mind,
when it comes to religion, religion is so important. It's better to have a dead child
than a child who's not religious than a child who's going to raise kids that's not religious.
So that was more important to her. So she essentially mourned your death, even though you're
alive. Like you would, you became dead to her. Yeah. Is that, and it's like a, is it like a
ceremony or is it like a? Yeah, it's like a couple of days. So when, apparently when the kid is
still, usually when somebody dies, you mourn for seven days. You don't shower, you sit on short
chairs, you tear your clothes and other things like that. However, she only did it for three days.
She tore her clothes, sat on short chairs, didn't shower, covered all the mirrors and stuff like
that. It is a process called sitting Shiva where you're supposed to mourn that person's death.
So yeah, she did it even though I was, I mean, I think I'm still alive. Yeah.
Oh, geez. Yeah, that's heartbreaking. That's absolutely heartbreaking.
As, as Kat said, it's yeah. How did you process that emotionally? So I didn't. I didn't think
anything was wrong with it. After that conversation, I didn't think anything was wrong with it. I'm
like, okay, it makes sense. She believes her religion's right. And she thinks she failed as a
parent because I'm not being religious and I'm disappointing her. I was putting a lot of the
blame on me. I'm disappointing her as a child. This is not how she raised me. I don't know why I
keep doing this, everything like that. It wasn't until I spoke to, so I don't know if you remember,
I said that I still had one friend from high school. So that friend, the reason why she
stayed friends with me is her mother grew up not religious and actually became religious later
in life. So her entire family is non, not religious. So she understands that people can be people
and people can be good people even if they're not religious. So when I told her that story,
I don't know, a couple months later, she was shocked. She was shook and she started crying and
everything. And I couldn't understand them like, no, but it makes sense because here I am
just throwing away everything she taught me in her life. And she's like, but you're alive. And
you're a good person and you're who you are at your core didn't change just because you no longer
believed in that religion. And that took like years for me to actually process. But I think
that's the main thing. I think the way it works in these communities, especially in the cults,
they equate human character and who a person is at their core with how religious they are.
So if a person isn't religious, like if a person isn't, how do I say it in English? He doesn't
keep the Sabbath. They can't be a witness in somebody's marriage, somebody's anything because
or even when cooking food, because you can't trust them as a person, they're not a good enough
person to be a witness for anything. So yeah, that's definitely that definitely took some time to
I don't know if I'm actually over it yet, but it took some time to process.
Yeah, I don't know. That that is super traumatic. Do you think that and I see everyone's questions
by the way, and we'll get to them. Thank you, D and others. When you were in this cult, was there
a lot of talk about the world? Like when people said, people would say that's the world. Like in
our, when I was growing up, we would, from the pulpit, not growing up, sorry, when I was in
the church, it was almost like the world believes this, but we believe this. And the world was
seen as like this, these evil, this evil group of people who are not evil, but these this loss,
this dying, you know, you said before, I don't think I'm dead. Well, my probably my old church
would consider us both dead in dead and sin. You know, that's the the idea. So and they would talk
about like the world on having these answers. And it was very surprising to me when I discovered
people who were more balanced, more put together, more happy, more, you know, handling life better
outside of the church than people who were in the church. Did you have, did you have that like
phraseology, the world, or did you just see everyone, or did you have a different word for
everyone else? No, so yeah, it wasn't really necessarily the world, but it was anybody who
wasn't like us was less than kind of like on a lower level. And it depended like we, yeah,
morals, morally, they were on a lower level. And they were I said, I said, I said muggles, like,
kind of, yeah, kind of. I like the idea of wizards, because they are specific,
Judaism is based on mysticism and spirituality. So I guess I kind of got those.
Does he say Judaism, do they wear funny hats as well?
Yeah, they are, it's the furry hat.
Exactly, it kind of goes like that. And they do do some like,
practices, I'm trying to think, they do do some practices where which people I guess would find
a bit, I mean, a lot of practices, which people would find a bit strange. Like the order of cutting
the nails, we can say, we can say, oh, so many other things I don't remember right now. But yeah.
Politically, in fact, it's a recovering of mirrors sounds like witchcraft, and then they said not to
be rude. No, so it's supposed to be during that time, you're not supposed to, you're supposed to
focus on your morning. So you're not supposed to be vain and look at your worry about your
parents, because you're not, you're not supposed to shower like I remember. So my dad passed when
I was in the eighth grade. I remember that entire week, we weren't supposed to take showers. And
if we had to, if it felt like we had to, it had to be a cold shower and just rinse yourself.
And it was so grimy, but you're not supposed to worry about your appearance is kind of the whole
thing. It's like, it's like you're meant to be so heartbroken. Is it that like, you couldn't even
talk about shower? And yeah, okay, that makes sense. Right. Sorry, I'm trying to find
some other, oh, I kind of meant to mention this before. So a lot of when we were talking about
the Sabbath, one of the huge things is like, you can't because you can't do anything. Remember,
we're discussing loopholes, kind of off topic, but we were discussing loopholes and stuff like
that in the fishing wire. So you can't use electricity or anything like that on the Sabbath.
But what you can do is if let's say the lightest closed or the AC is off,
you can hint to someone not Jewish to do it for you. So like how it would work is we would
invite somebody that was the only time we spoke to somebody not Jewish when we needed their help.
But we would invite someone into our house and casually make comments about how hot it is in
our house and how we forgot to turn on the AC and we can't turn on the AC, whatever. And it led
to an entire culture of just manipulation. And that's something also I had to take time to unlearn
because the manipulation was really embedded in us because it's the only time we converse
with these people. And we couldn't even directly ask them for anything. We had to
kind of make it so they brought it up and it was as if it was their idea to help us.
One of my oldest and dearest friends, he comes over to my house all the time, Keegan,
and he sits on the couch and goes, oh, my throat's so dry. And he won't do that. He keeps doing that
until I go get him a beer. And we both know it's a joke. But I just want to share the only photo
you have of yourself and your dad. Well, is this the only photo you have of yourself at all?
Yeah, so right. So because when I left, I wasn't able to take anything with me. I didn't actually
have any photos at all. However, my sister did make a slideshow in honor because I mentioned
my father passed. So in honor of his memory, and the only picture I have of just me and the
parents is this one. It's just me and him and every other picture, I maybe have two other
three other pictures in that slideshow with me. But they're always with someone else. And it's
the only one I do have with just me and a parent. But yeah, it's definitely that was one thing I
didn't realize till later because when I left, I didn't even think to try to I had 48 hours to
leave. So I didn't even think about trying to take pictures with me. And now as I'm older as I'm out,
I've been out for seven years. There are times when I'm feeling nostalgic. But there's nothing I
can go back to, because I don't have any pictures of my childhood, especially my dad passed. I have
this one picture of him. And this is when I was looks like three, four years old. So I don't even
have any thing of him as he was older as I was older with him. Wow. It is a nice photo though.
You guys look very happy together. That was on Hanukkah. We were lighting the candles.
Oh, that's so nice. So someone D asked, D's become a regular around here. She's a cool person. She
asked, do Hasidic Jews believe that a person is only considered a person once they are born,
or is that more mainstream? So it is part of it's kind of complicated. So they do believe
that before a person is born, they're already
destined to be with another soul. Like it's already decided who they'll marry. However,
when it comes to the whole topic of abortion, the mother's life is always more important.
So they're not supposed to, I mean, if the mother is ever injured or anything like that.
I've heard some rabbis even say when it's the mother's mental health is at risk,
they'll offer abortions not even when it's her physical health, but just when her mental health
is at risk. So they do kind of allow for abortions. However, they do believe that there is some level
of like in the womb, there's supposed to be an angel teaching you the Torah.
And then when you, when you're born, you lose all that memory. And then you have to choose
to learn the Torah again. So yeah, it's kind of, oh, I drink like half the bottle, I still might
drink more. But yeah, we're not going to mention that. We'll just like pretend this isn't happening
right now. That's okay. That's okay. Hey, I've had some very, very drunk episodes of deep drinks.
Someone else asked, why did our court ask, why did she, why did you have to leave after 48 hours?
What would happen if you overstayed? I mean, that wasn't even a choice. My mom said like,
pretty much she said leave tonight, get out of here tonight. And I begged her and I got the 48 hours.
But it wasn't like an option. I probably would have been left out on the street. She probably
just would have, she ended up changing the locks anyway after I left, but she probably would have
just changed the locks on me and not, not allowed me to stay at all. Yeah, like now I remember,
so my younger sister is still in there. And there is a lot of guilt that I feel about that because
she's being raised in a cult. I went through a lot of trauma being raised in a cult. I know she's
going through that trauma. And the fact that I'm unable to, I read her letters and stuff and I know
I've spoken, I've tried texting my mom, trying to ask her to give her those letters. I know she
hasn't. So there is a lot of guilt about the fact that she's still in there. However,
any time I've tried to go there, my mom like has added security, like she got a ring camera,
she changed the locks, she did a whole thing. So there's no way for me to go there. Once she
had already kicked me out, there was no way kind of for me to go back in
to there unless I would have become religious again. That's always an option.
Yeah, jeez. Yeah, crazy. So how does, sorry, I just want to, my brain is getting affected a
little bit by the alcohol, but I've also got some questions I want to ask. So you did actually
mention that your sister, like before we went live, you did mention your sister, you were very,
you know, you're very, like you're very conflicted about that. Have you ever, have you ever felt
like going back on, like just pretending like you don't know what you know and becoming religious
again and diving back in there to see your sister? I mean, that must be so hard. Yeah.
Yeah, so it's funny. Actually, a couple of days ago, I think it was earlier last week,
I found a letter in my email that I had written to my mom after she had already mourned my death,
but basically begging her to accept me for who I was and accept the fact that I'm still the same
person who she raised, but I just believe in something else. And I did it on a live thinking
it would be just a great, like conversation starter. And I ended up breaking down and I
was kind of ended up expressing, because this is something I have been struggling with this idea
that I do want to go back for her because I feel like I'm abandoning her in this. And I know,
so I have a whole plan, like if I would do it, I would go to my friend's house, who's still that
friend that I stay close to, she lives near where my mom lives, I would go to her house,
I'd go to synagogue, I'd pretend to be religious, all of that. But the thing is, I know towards the
end, once I had already made the decision to leave and I stayed, there was a huge, how do I explain
it? So before I decided to leave, I had no issues with the rules. However, once I had made the
decision, I'm going to leave. There was a huge break and huge like amount of cognitive dissonance
where I felt like I was being controlled and suffocated by all of the rules. And I could not,
my mental health really deteriorated. So I know if I, I logically know if I go back, my mental
health is going to go back into a state of just a terrible place when right now I'm healthier than
I've ever been, I'm happier, I feel free, I am no longer being constrained by those rules.
But then I also feel selfish because I'm allowing her to grow up in that, being controlled and being
told these things and also being told that like, I'm a terrible person and my older sister who
left after me is a terrible person. Like I think about it. And it's funny because the way it works
is if you're religious, you're a good person. If you're not religious, you're not a good person.
So we do have, you know, essay happens, sorry, I forget we're not on take back sexual abuse
happens in every community. And it's usually covered up in extremist communities because
they don't like admitting that they have flaws. So if someone is even known as a predator,
it's covered up if they're religious, you know, there's no issue. However, if someone leaves
that isn't religious, they are seen as like this terrible influence your kids can't be around them.
But there's no problem with kids being around known pedophiles. Can I say that on YouTube?
Yeah, yeah, pedophiles. Yeah. Okay, fine. No pedophiles and no predators. Like there's no
issue with that. Oh, I am feeling the the Margaret down on my fourth cup. I should probably go down.
I'm gonna make some water. Yeah. Oh, yeah, I should have some water. But there's definitely a,
I don't know if it's a double standard, if that's the correct word, but they do trust these predators
because they are religious. And they would not trust any children near me or my older sister
who left a couple of years after me at all. It's I mean, yeah, it's the same thing. It's the same
thing with the Catholic Church. I think that what happens with the Catholic Church is this is just
my own theory. But I think that religious communities see themselves as higher, like higher up morally
than the world than the rest of the rest of civilization. So why would why would why would the
Catholic Church or why would the Hasidic Jewish communities or why would any community inform
the police or use the world system when they can help someone better than the world? So
yeah, it's um right. And there's also like kind of this idea of like,
don't trust the outside because we don't trust the outside world. We also don't trust the outside
law enforcement. And like, you kind of have this idea that everything is embedded with
antisemitism. So if a Jew goes to prison, it's going to be way worse than just the regular person
off the street going to prison because they'll be abused more. Yeah, yeah, there's what's the
difference between like Judaism and for some of some of my friends and family might not know
the difference between Judaism and Hasidic Judaism. What is the main difference? Like,
do you have extra books? So the books are pretty much the same. However, there's is this whole
idea of Kabbalah, which is mysticism. And this kind of relies on how do I say like a lot of
spiritual practices are seen as rules. And there's also this concept. It's called minha
kehalacha, which means that any time any small rule is followed for three generations, it becomes
a law. Any small tradition. So like in our family, somebody somewhere had made the tradition of
putting onions and eggs on the Sabbath, like if we mash up eggs and we put some onions in there.
There's a little bit of a noise. I think it might be your dog chewing something hard.
Okay, that's okay. It's just going up through the mic and I notice it's
just quickly you didn't have you couldn't have a dog on on because you couldn't pad it or feed it
or anything on the Sabbath, right? Yeah, you couldn't. So the feeding wasn't an issue, but you
couldn't touch it. So you couldn't take it for a walk. We did have like a rabbit, we were able to
give the rabbit some food, but we couldn't touch it. So we could have petted or anything like that.
So the rabbit just stayed in its crate and the fish, we also had fish, they just, you know,
stayed in their tank, the entire Sabbath, well, all the time, but the rabbit would stay in its
crate, the entire Sabbath. So with a dog, because you have to walk them every day, there's no way
to have a dog because you can't touch them on the Sabbath. So there'd be no way to care for them
on the Sabbath at all. And also, I don't know why it just wasn't accepted really to have pets.
Like we were a strange family for having a rabbit, but it really wasn't accepted to have any pets
besides for fish. Oh, wow. It must have been, I love dogs. Like we didn't have a dog growing up.
But we've got a beagle now and he's like a cheeky little fella. Yeah, he's very cute.
Yeah. My dog's a lab. He's adorable. But yeah.
I saw him on your TikTok, which I actually will just quickly, just for people who may not know,
go check out Face TikTok. It's really, oh, it's going to ask me for this again. So annoying.
But Face TikTok is filled with just answering question after question after question of,
it's really awesome. And you've got like 26,000 followers now, which is really cool.
So if you like this kind of content, you can go ask Faye whenever you want, I'm sure she'll
love to answer. Also, you have a website. Can you tell us a little bit about this website?
Yeah. So I'm actually just creating it. I do have this idea that I do want to help people who have
been in similar situations of cults or high demand religions and helping them learn how to
function on the outside and learn how to leave. But this also kind of goes into anybody whose
family cuts them off for any reason. Like even if somebody comes out to their family and their
family is religious and disowns them, it's kind of how to function and to make sure that you don't
repeat the pattern of getting into abusive situations. So I am creating, in the process of
creating free pamphlets. I've already created four or three, I believe, but I do plan on
finishing at least 10 within the next two weeks. And they should be available for free download
on my website. But for now, if people want, they could just sign up with email and they'll be notified
as soon as they're available. And they could download them for free. And they're just kind of
informational pamphlets, how to differentiate a cult from a religious community, because there is a
large difference, how to not have a function on the outside world, how to safely leave a whole
bunch of different issues with that. I'm sorry, with the noise. I'm just gonna. There we go.
But yeah, a whole bunch of different issues. Give me one second.
That's okay. I'll also, so everyone, if you want to go check out Faye's website, it'll be,
you'll be able to download this pamphlet soon and also sign up for a newsletter. I'm pretty sure.
And next week on Deep Drinks, we have the amazing Jenna Miu, who's become a good friend of mine.
And she told her family that she was an atheist and apparently she hit the fan. So we're going
to be learning a little bit about that. It was a very hard journey for her. She's going to be
telling her story. And then the following week, of course, we have, which we had to push back
because I had a beautiful baby boy, Atlas, who I will bring on the stream one day soon. He's just
a little bit cry today. But we will be, we will be pushed back this episode with Michael Granado,
who's going to be talking about his PhD subject, his Jesus, what's it called,
brain not working because of alcohol. You don't have to do a, what is it like? Oh my gosh.
That looks like Albert Einstein. Yeah, it's Albert Einstein, but he's basically describing,
he's basically for his PhD assignment. Oh my, it's not the right word, but I'm just, I'm so drunk.
I haven't drunk all of Dr. January. So this is, it's hit me differently. But we're going to be
talking about the history of time. How did time, how did the ideas of time develop? There used to
be this concept called, like they, I can't even, I'm not even going to try on this game. Anyway,
if you want to check that out, we're going to be learning a lot about that. That's going to be fun.
But yeah, so back with, back on your website, you'll have these pamphlets. Can people sign up
now or do anything now? Yes. So in the contact sheet, if you just sign up and in the message,
just write pamphlets, you'll be updated as soon as the pamphlets, I already have a few of them
done. So I don't mind even sharing those with people who sign up as they're getting done.
However, they'll be available within the next two weeks. So if anybody wants to sign up and
you'll get a free download to these pamphlets and I find them, from the people that I've spoken to,
I mean, obviously I find them useful because I made them, but from the people I've spoken to,
not only does it help people who have been in these kind of situations,
I find that it also helps people who have met someone in this situation because people who
have been in cults or who have left high demand religions often have a form of PTSD where they
only experience flashbacks and traumatic memories once they're safe because their body
blocks that out as it's happening and then once they're in a safe place, they'll randomly experience
these flashbacks and memories that they had stored away for so long. So it has, it definitely helps
people with understanding that especially if someone in their life has dealt with any kind of
traumatic incident, not only if it's leaving the cult or group, but it's really any traumatic
incident. Well, that is awesome. I wonder if you should write a book. I think you could do really
well at that. Someone keeps telling me that, but I don't see, I know other people find this fascinating,
but for me, I just find it kind of strange. I don't know. I don't know that I could feel
comfortable enough writing a book because in my mind, it's like, I don't know, I've met a couple
of trolls on TikTok, so it's like some of those trolls have written books in order to make themselves
seem more real and it's kind of like them writing a book. I don't see it as being a real thing,
but yeah, maybe one day, we'll see, maybe one day if this ends up growing somewhere.
I'm sure it will. Everyone's super interested in your story.
Court also said religious trauma is so real, as well as group velocity, oh my gosh,
group velocity, oh my gosh. Anyway, a type of OCD centered around religious guilt and compulsion.
Funny enough, I have a bit of experience with that. I've got pure OCD and I went through a
therapist to deal with that and a lot of that, yeah, is around religion. He told me a story about
a lot of religious people get OCD and what will happen is they'll walk into a church or something
and they'll get really blasphemous thoughts, like really, really horrible thoughts and they're told
that they think it's the devil and so they push hard against these thoughts and then they come
back worse and so you've got to actually almost deliberately think about the thoughts to get
rid of it. It's a whole thing, but I wanted to ask a little bit more about, so I wanted to ask
a little bit about your view of, I guess, knowing everything you know about Judaism
and the Qabbal, do you call it Qabbalah or the Hasidic Judaism, how do you view Christianity?
Christianity believes that they have the Messiah and a lot of my Christian friends will say,
can't you read the Bible in the Old Testament and see that Jesus is perfectly prophesied without
any errors at all in the Old Testament? What would you say to someone that says that?
So it's interesting because in Judaism, it actually doesn't say anything about there being
like one Messiah in Hasidic Judaism. They definitely believe that there will be one Messiah
and they do have certain requirements which Jesus, they say that Jesus did not fulfill. However,
when it comes to the prophecies in the Old Testament, all of them that I've heard from
Christians have been way mistranslated and taken out of context. Like we were speaking about
slightly before, the one in Isaiah that speaks about a virgin giving birth, the word in Hebrew
says young girl. How it got translated to virgin along the road, I have no idea, but most of these
Christians who are taking the Old Testament and using it as proof, as the fulfillment of the prophecies,
they're not, they don't understand the language, so they're just completely
taking these translations as facts when the translations are mistranslations of the words.
There was another example I was thinking about, but I completely forgot it.
There is one more thing actually, I was having a debate with a Christian recently
where she was comparing Jesus to the Lamb of God and she was trying to bring a whole bunch of
comparisons between the sacrifice over Passover that Jews do where they sacrifice the Lamb
and they use the blood on the door to Jesus' crucifixion. And it's interesting in a few ways.
One, the reason why lambs were sacrificed was because they were in Egypt, lambs were worshipped
as gods, so they sacrificed lambs to kind of taunt the Egyptians. So it's funny that they're
comparing Jesus to the Lamb of God, to a lamb, when that was seen as an idol. So technically
they're comparing him to an idol, but on the other side of that, all of the reasons and comparisons
that she was giving were just mistranslations of words that were used and none of it made actual
sense when I was translating the actual Hebrew to English as opposed to using her translated versions.
And that's what I find with a lot of Christians, a lot of their arguments seem to be baseless
once you actually translate it correctly. I've noticed that, I think you mentioned this before
we went live, but it's also in Deborah Grace's book, Crucifying the Bible. She went from Christianity
to a form of Hebrew roots movement and then became an atheist eventually, but she discovered that
she lost, she stopped believing that Jesus was the Messiah when, I think part of it was that
prophecies are not supposed to take more than one or two generations to be fulfilled.
So for Isaiah to prophesy something in the Old Testament,
it's supposed to be fulfilled within a couple of generations. And that's the same with Daniel
and the same with Revelations. I talked about this on my other channel, Post Faith,
YouTube.com at Post Faith, but I debated someone and I was talking to a Christian and I was saying
that like, they said, what about the Mark of the Beast? And I said, well, the Mark of the Beast is
Nero. If you translate the numbers, it's Nero and 666 is Nero and Nero was persecuting Christians
at the time and Jesus explicitly told his followers, oh, we'll return in your lifetime.
Like you'll see the Son of Man, people will not die. So prophecies were not supposed to happen.
It doesn't take 2,000 years for a prophecy to happen. It failed.
Right. That's a big one. Yeah, within the Old Testament prophecies, because you had to first
test the prophets to see if they were real and they had to make prophecies that happened at that
time. And their job, it was like a job. So the Messiah, a lot of Jews believe, the ones who
don't believe that there's being one Messiah, like Pacific Jews believe that there's going to be one
Messiah. He'll take us on the wings of an eagle to Israel. And then the third temple, which is
being built in heaven, will come down in fire and a whole thing. However, most rational Jews
believe that a Messiah is a job. It just means anointed. The word in Hebrew means anointed.
So every generation until the ends of the, when there were Jewish courts, had somebody who was
anointed to help bring people closer to God. However, they also say that now there's also
like one person in every generation that brings people closer to God. But other than that, like
the whole Messiah thing seems to be more of a Christian belief. And honestly, a lot of Kabbalah,
which is what Hasidic beliefs are based on, is based on more Christian beliefs than on Jewish
belief, which is why a lot of Jews also don't really like Hasidic Judaism because they do view
it as a cult or a kind of close to Christianity, which they don't agree with.
Is that, I know that in the Old Testament, there is no hell, or at least in the traditional
perspective. Was there a heaven and hell ask in Hasidic Judaism?
Yeah. Yeah. So hell is called Gehenim and it's temporary. It's like a year. And then
that's kind of when a decision is made, what happens to you. So either you go to heaven after
that year, or you have to be reincarnated, or this is kind of a complicated subject. But there's
something called a dibble, which is this spirit that can go into something. And let's say there's
one story where it happened. Basically, there was uncovered water that a dibble was in,
and a girl drank from it without saying a blessing. So then the dibble was allowed in her body,
and it kind of took over her body. And it was like an evil spirit and it would talk and stuff like
that. So there is kind of that idea, I guess, kind of like possession. It would be similar to
Christianity. So there is kind of that idea, but usually it's there's heaven and hell,
and the hell is only temporary, and usually you're reincarnated. But the dibble is kind of like...
How do I explain it? When there's nothing really to do with you,
you have the option of becoming a dibble. It's a very off chance that you'll become a dibble.
Interesting. Just going back, if anyone has any questions, we're going to get to the
question and answers soon, just before we wrap up. But I do want to ask, what are some of...
So you've left... So you leave this cult. You found a place in Brooklyn. You're living there.
You were saving up money. What are some of the first experiences you had that were shocks to you?
Oh, God. Well, my roommates didn't try to kill me when they found out I was Jewish. That was like
shocker to me. They didn't send you the Brooklyn Auschwitz? Yeah, they didn't try to kill me.
At that point, before my mom sat at Sheva's, mourned my death, she would randomly leave cooked
kosher food at my doorstep when she knew I was at work. So by the time I came home,
there were... I apologize for my dog. That's okay. You can let... I'm just...
I'm my heart breaking. That's so sweet of your mother to do that, even though she...
It's like, you can tell she hates that what her religion is doing, but she can't stop it.
You can take your dog out if you want. It's fine. I don't want people to go out for you.
It's fine. He's tired. He just hears me talking and he becomes jealous because he's...
It's really just me and him in the apartment. So whenever I talk to other people,
he's jealous. Everybody who goes on my live knows I go out with him at least five, six
times a night while I'm on live. I'll go on the elevator and stuff. So I have to figure out...
I thought the puzzle that I made for him and put him... put in the freezer would keep him busy for
like three hours. It kept him busy for 30 minutes. People... You can bring him on stream. People are
saying, Papa wants mama love. Yeah. Papa smuggles. You can go bring him. Everyone's talking because
he's stuck in the room. Okay. Thank you everyone for coming out. I appreciate all the new faces
that are here. It's really good to see you guys, to see so many different perspectives and to hear
some different questions. It's really nice. I am reading them. I try to keep my focus on
the guests, obviously, but it is nice to read them as well. Okay. I don't know if you hear him,
but he's right here. He's there. But you'll see him in a minute. He'll come jumping on me in a
second. He just went to go grab his toy that he forgot in my bedroom. But so this is the thing.
So yeah, that's what I meant to take away. Give me one second. I apologize, but it's
the plastic. I don't want that making a bunch of sounds. Okay. So when it comes to,
yeah, first experiences, one thing I did want to say, kind of a funny story, it just popped in my
head. Again, it's not making complete sense because we're almost done with this whole bottle
like that I bought. Oh my gosh. How many drinks is in that? I don't want to, I don't want to say it's
a lot. Okay. So my mind is kind of all over the place because I do feel a little bit drunk.
But what I did want to say was the first time that I, like after I'd gotten the iPod
and I decided I was going to break the Sabbath, I went to the bathroom and like,
we can't, you can't tear toilet paper on the Sabbath. So you have like tissues like Kleenex
tissues that you use on the Sabbath, but you can't tear. So I literally went to the bathroom and like
tore a piece of toilet paper and waited for like lightning to strike me. I was just lying.
Yeah. Like that was the biggest thing I could think of. Like it was, I was just, I tore that toilet,
I was sitting like cross-legged with the toilet seat down, tore that toilet paper and just waited
and nothing happened. And I was just like, what's going on? That reminds me of, I mentioned before,
Alyssa Whitback Alexander, her and her husband, they're like,
we're going to be bad, we're going to drink coffee because coffee is not allowed in
journalism at all. So they like put on costumes, they drove to another town. Oh, there's your
yeah, there he is. His name is Jasper. Oh, did you just try to drink my margarita? Go away.
Tried to drink from it. Yeah. And sorry, what were you saying? They would go to these other
town and they would go in and they'll be like, they're wearing different costumes and they're like,
you know, trying to hide their face and they ask like, do you have a cappuccino machine and the
person's like, yeah, like, can we have a cappuccino? And they're like, like, it was like a big thing
for them. Like, I can't believe we're drinking coffee and stuff. And someone mentioned before that
when you're talking about not looking like you're doing something wrong,
they mentioned that some people will not drink hot chocolates out of, because it looks like
they're drinking coffee. So they don't want, yeah. I've heard about that in the Mormon community.
They won't do that. Yes. Yes, definitely. What's it called again? It's interesting because that was
so much more like when we were on road trips, we wouldn't stop at a McDonald's. We'd rather stop
on the side of the road to go pee than go to a McDonald's, because it might look as if we're
going into a non-Cosher place, even if there were like, no dues around, it didn't matter.
We cannot step into McDonald's. I was so many other things like there were just, you couldn't,
oh, I do remember this. So my aunt would come, she lived in LA. And when she would come in,
so aunts are a lot of hug nephews. However, when she would come in, she would not touch my brother,
like hug my brother, because she didn't live in our area. So people wouldn't know that she was my aunt.
So because of that disconnect, she wouldn't want to like ever touch any of the boys,
which my mom did the same thing. She wouldn't like hug any of her sons, because of that
idea of not allowing people to think that you might be doing something wrong.
Wow. I feel like we could keep going on forever. I would love to have you on again,
if you were interested, because this has been fascinating. I have some questions, though,
to wrap things up. Make sure everyone go subscribe to Faye, and you have a YouTube channel,
let's link down below that you will start putting more debates on, and links in the description.
Yeah, I have to be more on top of actually uploading things there, but yeah, I am trying
to get more on top of it. It's a different beast on YouTube. So,
Court asked, if Faye would go back, would her mom somehow take back the morning ritual? So if
you would have become religious again, would she...? So I don't know what he means by the morning
ritual. There was a morning. Oh, not morning. Okay, I don't know. Sorry, I told you I had a lot.
I don't know if there's a way to take it back. I don't think there is a way to take it back,
but I think if I would go back, she would accept me. It would probably take some time,
but I think she would accept me and allow me to be around my sister, and that's the biggest thing.
I feel like I'm being selfish by not going back and not pretending for a couple of years, because
she's 11 years old now, so I just have to pretend until she's 16, and that's five years, and that
doesn't seem so far away. So that's the biggest issue, is I know she would take me back and allow
me to see my sister if I pretended, and it's such a struggle to not go back. Can I ask you
some questions about that? Do you feel comfortable talking about that a little bit? Yeah, yeah.
If you had an older sister, would you want them to come back for you?
So I do have an older sister. She left because of me, actually. So when I left,
she was told not to contact me, and by her rabbis and by everybody, unless she was actively trying
to bring me back. Now, she originally asked me to learn Torah with her on the phone once a week.
I said no. She hates when I say this because she doesn't remember this, but she even offered me
money to do it. I said no, because it felt like I was being bought, and that was the first time,
though, that she went against her rabbis, and we ended up having a great relationship. That was
the first time she went against her rabbis, and then later on, she completely left. So I'm trying
to think if I was religious, I think it would have been nice because it was nice,
kind of with her when we were younger, the fact that we would sneak out and buy these
Tana Montana DVDs, and we would do certain things that weren't allowed. It was nice to
have someone and know that they understand, and the crazy part is like she's being taught that
I'm this terrible person that she can't have any contact with, and honestly, I think she would be
better off if I would be in there. But on the other hand, with the cognitive dissonance, I don't
know if I would make it until she was 16 because it was so hard. My mental health really went down
the drain when I was pretending. I don't know if I would make it until she was 16.
I think what you're doing is on TikTok and YouTube, bringing awareness to the situation
is a huge... I mean, I think your sister will grow up and hopefully be able to see this kind
of stuff in the future and see that you've cared this whole time. It's a horrible situation,
really is. Yeah, I agree. I'm hoping that she'll see that I'm trying to do things for her. I also
do write letters to her every month, and I take pictures of it to hopefully when she's older,
I can show her that I take pictures of it, and I've tried getting in contact with her.
But it is sad, and it's really sad that like... So when that friend that I have in high school
who lives in the area, her grandmother passed recently, so her mom was mourning and sitting
Shiva, and I went there as much as I can because it is a couple of hours away, and one night when
I was there, my sister came to visit, and she felt very uncomfortable even giving me a hug and
talking to me, and I could feel that she... It was like she was afraid of me, and that is kind of...
I can tell that that's what she's being taught, that I'm trying to take her away from the family
and from the religion, and that's my only purpose in having a relationship with her is to take her
away. So it is kind of sad. Do you think there's like some form of like a sunk cost fallacy where
someone like in your mother's case where your mother has invested so much, she's given up
essentially her daughters for her religion, and now as a result it's almost emotionally
impossible for her to question her beliefs because she's put so much into upholding them.
Do you think there's some of that going on? There probably is. I think one thing we used to kind of
joke about was the fact that when I went to Israel, she became more religious, and I think
when she knew I was questioning things, she kind of went overboard to prove that it's
the one way, the only true way. I'm really trying not to slur words right here,
but the only way to live and everything else will leave you to help. So she kind of went overboard
once she knew that I was debating whether I should leave or not. I think there definitely
is that idea that she invested too much in it and she can't let go at this point.
Is it true that some kids finish school without the ability to speak fluent English
because all instructions are in Yiddish? Oh yeah, oh yeah, so I've learned English at home just
because my mom, she married into it, so she spoke English and her entire family spoke English,
so I spoke English mostly at home, but I do remember when, this was funny, the rabbi of our
synagogue, his wife came over the Reviton, she came over and her son was 19 and getting a passport
and he didn't know how to sign his name in English, so she asked us to teach him how to sign his name
in English because he didn't know how to do that, and that was not even reading, she wasn't trying
to teach him how to read, just had to simply sign his name. And this is in New York, like this is
in New York, in Brooklyn, New York, not even like an upstate, anything like that, this is in Brooklyn,
New York, but anybody who lives in Brooklyn, especially Barbara Park area, knows that this is
a huge community or Williamsburg, this is a huge community that definitely exists and kind of,
they have their own everything. Ooh, not so secure. Sorry, I'm trying to move mine.
Jasper's trying to get lit as well. Oh yeah, he's like, you're drunk, I'll be drunk too,
we'll have fun together. When you learned about sex and your sexual orientation,
was that, is that something that your mom knows about, like that you're queer or, and when you
say queer, is that like bisexual? So yeah, I'm pansexual. So for me, it's like the person that
matters more than what's in their pants or what gender they're against by us. But no, she does not
know. And like, I can't even imagine trying to explain that to the like, like trying to explain.
Yeah, I was in a serious relationship with a trans person and whatever, like,
no, she would not. Well, at this point after that first relationship, she doesn't know anyone I've
dated because she already cut me out at that point. But I can't see like, me being queer is
kind of just adding a layer to like, Oh, that's why she left because she has these crazy needs. And
yeah, you know, it's so frustrating. People go hunting for reasons why people
like leave. I remember Dr. Josh, he's Dr. Josh, you should get on Twitter, by the way,
there's a lot of great arguments happening there. And it's really good to be smart. It's amazing.
But on Twitter, you know, Dr. Josh, you know, he's become a good friend of mine and he's queer.
And he, some pastor made up this story that like, that his wife that he's had kids with is trans.
And the reason he left his religion, like he's got, he's a doctor of Assyriology, he speaks,
he can read and write and speak Hebrew, he translates the Old Testament, he's got like,
he's specialized in the Old Testament, he's an author. And the reason he left was because of
his scholarship left his religion. But this pastor said, no, he must have left his
scholarship because his wife is trans and he's gay and he wants to live the gay lifestyle. And
it's just like baseless, absolutely baseless assumptions. And also, not that there's anything
anything wrong with being trans or gay or anything. And even Megan, his wife said,
if Josh was gay, I'd support him, like go, go be gay then. Like, I'm, you know, Megan is an amazing
person, but that's the thing when somebody, when somebody has like, either traumatic experiences
or different sexual identities or anything like that, religious people don't understand that somebody
would want to leave for logical reasons, or for the fact that this religion itself at its core
does not make sense to them. And they can't understand that. So they try to cling onto these
small things about that person, person, where it's like, they can prove they left because of
emotional reasons, they left because of they have these strange attractions, they left because
they're angry or something like that, so that it invalidates the entire experience that that person
has. Sorry, I feel like I'm completely wasted. Sorry. No, no, that's, that's, that's how it's
what we do here on Deep Drinks. Everyone subscribe. That's for good time. I actually said on Twitter,
sometimes it feels like I'm surrounded by people in the middle of a role playing fantasy game,
and I'm just trying to get them to be serious for a moment. It's like, they're like, oh,
my hummus, my hummus split the moon in two. And like, and Jesus is coming back and like,
actually there are spirits called gins and it's like, just guys, can we just be for real,
real for a second? Yeah. You know, you can't toast on the Sabbath, like, just, can we just like
Yeah, there's one person who has like this, who comes on all the time and talks about their Santa
religion, how Santa is real, and everybody should follow them in order to get into heaven,
you have to be on Santa's good list and stuff like that. And like, I think it's hilarious. And
like recently, maybe it was like two months ago, somebody was trying to scare me with Ragnarok
and the end of the world and stuff like that. And so like, I'm very proud of this example I came
up with, which is I, I have a book that prophesies that the all waters around the world will be
polluted with plastic. And when that happens, fish will learn to walk on land again, and it will be
the end of humankind. And we see that prophecy being fulfilled. I mean, plastic is filling the
oceans, it's a problem, wildlife is being destroyed and stuff like that. So are you because the UCB
prophecy is being fulfilled, are you going to now go out and dedicate your entire life to
cleaning the ocean and to doing the things that I've written in this book? And then they drop
whenever I bring up that example, which is cool, because I love it. I think it's a great one.
Yeah, it's amazing. So I have a question for you that I ask everyone at the end of Deep Drinks.
I ask a few different questions. So you're not religious, are you religious at all anymore?
No, I'm agnostic with me finding out that there was over 4,000 religions. I can't
logically pick one and say this is right, everything else is wrong. But I do kind of have
a sense that there might be a higher power out there. I can't rule anything out.
On a side note, on my other channel, YouTube to come out post faith, I'll drop in the description,
but there was one time I wanted to do something just silly, and I spent, what was it? It was like
four hours reading out the name of every single God on this website. And it was just like, I'd
read out the name of the God, and it was just like four and a half hours. It was amazing. Amazingly
wow. But yeah, I can see that. So what so if you don't believe in a religion, this could work
if you do have a religion, but what is the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in?
Um, that's a good question. I've never thought about that. I think
I don't know, like, that's a good question. Take your time. Take your time.
I don't know that any one religion is true, but if I had to pick one,
I'd probably go closer to Buddhism or something that
that. It's more about what you do in this lifetime and it affects like there's no one God
controlling everything to me. That doesn't make sense that there is one God that actually gives
us a rats butt. Yeah, it's funny. So many people choose Buddhism, and I've had, you know,
I interview everyone on here and Christians as well, and they say Buddhism as well,
which is really interesting. Yeah, because not relying on the fact that like this one
all powerful God or anything like that. A lot of it is karma, which seems to be very
an experience that a lot of people have in this world. Yeah, I've heard this. I saw this TikTok
or YouTube or something. It was actually really profound. I wish I could find it again, but they
made this argument that essentially there are two religions. There is one religion where you
look up and one religion where you look in and Christianity is Judaism is like about looking
to this bigger God and submitting to this bigger God and doing the things that this God wants you
to do. And as a result, you become a better person or you get through this life. And then
there are the Eastern gods, which are about looking inwardly and focusing your attention
inwardly and then through still through mysticism and gods and white stuff. And as a result, you
shed that karma and you and you ground yourself that way, you become a better person that way.
So the two different perspectives of the same, the two different approaches to ritual and
religion and philosophy and, you know, those kind of concepts. And I really like that idea.
What are you most thankful for? Right, I do like that. I've never heard that before.
My sister, the fact that so it's interesting, we were not close before she left.
I found out after she had said that she felt like I was kind of
this person, the shell of a person who was not being honest and like she didn't actually know
who I was. And it's funny, we were closer in our childhood. And then I guess once I made the decision
to leave, we grew apart. And I didn't know why I thought, okay, this is just happening because
we're older. And then the fact that she disobeyed the rabbis and kept a relationship with me
once I had left was shocking to me. And to me, that's the biggest thing because
it was it was unheard of to do that. The fact she went to like three different rabbis and they
all told her the same thing not to have a relationship with me. And it was unheard of the
fact, oh, I'm gonna start crying. The fact that she did that. And it means a lot to me that she chose
me over the thing that we were brought up with something like, which would bring her to God
and give her this happiness in her life. And the fact that she chose me over it was just like,
yeah, so I'm really thankful I still have her and the fact that she also left.
No, that's also she has her own TikTok that she's trying to kick off as well.
And this is the last question. What advice would you give to someone who wants to leave
their cults, but are scared of losing their family?
I think the biggest thing is understanding that you will lose your family.
And that's my dog again.
That I didn't want him to get. I think the biggest thing is understanding the fact that you will
lose your family. And that's sorry. I'm just gonna take that piece of cloth away. So we're
not hearing that crunching sound. There we go. Okay, so I think the biggest idea is understanding
that you will lose your family. And the fact that your life is more important than that. And
if you end up staying in that religion, you're gonna lose not only yourself, but if you
are forced to get married, you're gonna lose children. I completely, this is what happens
when you drink. You're gonna completely lose yourself and lose your children too. And you're
going to keep the extreme like as generations go on, each generation becomes more and more extreme
and worse and worse. I apologize. And worse and worse. So yeah, that's definitely
something I would give advice that understand that this is something you will lose, but you'll be
alive and you'll be free. And that's the biggest thing I think. Wow, okay. That's really, that's
really powerful. Well, Fay, we'll end it there. But thank you so much for coming on. It's been
an absolute pleasure. I'll play the outro. You can stick around and we can chat afterwards. So
don't feel like you have to leave. But I did want to say thank you for coming out. Make sure
everyone go check out your website and go check out your TikTok and YouTube and all that good
stuff. And I'll see everyone next week for Jenna, who is a Black female atheist, her episode,
which is going to be a doozy when she telling her story about when she told her family finally.
Thank you so much, everyone, for coming out. And thank you for the new people who have decided
to subscribe. I love you all. See you later.
