Coffee was the first thing we tried together. We tried that on my birthday because it was
going to be a birthday treat to Finn a little bit. We're so nervous, you know, we're like,
oh my gosh, like we're trying coffee. Like, and I was thinking we're both wearing our Mormon
underwear under our clothes. Like, will people know that we're non-coffee drinkers? Like,
there was a fringe sect of our church that was really into anointing oil and like gold
dust and stuff. It wasn't price. It was just randoms running around the church with a bottle
of canola oil. Yeah, I don't feel safe. Also, this relationship is like very sexist. And he's
like, right, it should be. That's what we do. I think he thinks I'm crying because I feel
the spirit because he seems happy and excited. You receive a new name. Yes, you receive a new
name. It's very, it's, um, and this, oh man, there's so many things.
So welcome everyone to the Deep Drinks podcast for the drinks are deep and the conversations
are deeper. My name is Dave. Today we have Alyssa Whitback Alexander, a writer currently
studying a master's of fine arts in creative nonfiction and writing at the University of
Montana. Alyssa is an ex-mormon with a heart-rending and touching story. Alyssa has a strong interest
in a relationship between institutional and personal truth, of which we will hopefully touch
on a little bit today. Alyssa is working on her full-length memoir, but today you will only get
a sneak peek at her journey. So welcome Alyssa Whitback Alexander. Thank you. Thank you so much
for having me. No, no worries. I found you on TikTok, obviously, and I reached out because
your story was just amazing. And my wife was very happy with the drink that you chose. We're
drinking gimlet. So she made me this. Yeah, cool. So first of all, how are you? How has things been
going? Yeah, things have been going well. The semester just ended, so we're going into summer
over here. So that's, that's nice. Yeah, we're going into winter. So different parts of the world.
Very. Do you have, I'm not sure too much for the States, but where are you? Like is it cold?
Is it cold winters or hot summers? Yeah, it's pretty cold. So we're just a couple hours from
Canada. So it's, it gets pretty chilly in the winter. Summer is nice. It's, it's a four-season
place. So that's been good. Yeah, cool. So I was wondering if you could give us like the audience
a bit of a, most of my audience might know because a lot of them are from America, but
I've never met a member of the Latter-day Saints or a Mormon. So I actually have not,
I don't have much of an idea of what they believe. And I've seen the Book of Mormon,
The Musical, which was funny. I watched a couple of YouTube videos about what Mormonism is. I
have the Book of Mormon back there. I haven't started it yet. But could you explain what Mormonism
is? Like, is it a branch of Christianity? Is it, you know? Yeah, I'd love to. Yeah. So Mormonism is
a part of Christianity. The belief is that after Jesus's death and crucifixion, that
the apostasy happened. So that's when the God's truth was taken from the earth. And it took until
Joseph Smith in the 1800s to restore the gospel. And so that is the Mormon really like strong belief
is that the gospel was restored with Joseph Smith in the 1800s. And the Book of Mormon is seen as
the full truth. It's like seen as building on what the Bible has already started,
but it is more accurate than the Bible. That's just another history of the America's
and of Jesus Christ. And yeah, that's like the really short version of it.
So there's like the Hebrew Bible, the Old Testament. And then there's the New Testament,
which is what traditional, I guess, traditional Christians would believe. And then there's the
Third Testament, which is the Book of Mormon. Is that right? Yeah. Yep. Yep. So the Book of
Mormon is considered like another Testament of Jesus Christ. So Mormons have four books of
scripture that they use. So there's the Old Testament, the New Testament, the Book of Mormon.
And then there's a smaller book that's called the Doctrine and Covenants, which is basically like
Joseph's Revelations in the 1800s. So that is the last text that is used. Okay. All right. So as
correct me if I'm wrong, I'm going to give you the South Park rendition of the story. And you just
correct me. Correct me where I'm wrong. So is it true that is it true that Joseph Smith around was
18 something 1860 or something or sometime around then he was visited by the angel Moroni. And then
Moroni said, Hey, Protestantism isn't right. Catholicism isn't right. I've got some golden
plates. Go look for them. And he dug up his backyard or somewhere near his location, found
these golden plates, then someone translate, no, then he translated those golden plates by looking
into a hat and using these glasses or sphere stones or something. Yes. And someone wrote down
the story as he dictated it to them. Yep. Yep. That was spot on. Okay. So that's actually like
legit. That's a real. Yeah. So the only thing that there's like, has been some controversy and
it's been accepted now as the actual translation process using the rock and the hat is kind of
has been taboo within Mormonism up until the past, I don't know, two years, maybe,
maybe even less, maybe even now it's, it's still considered taboo. I'm just talking about that.
So they do admit that that is like the process through which shows us in the translate of the
Book of Mormon. But as like a kid, we weren't told about the hat and the rock. So the idea
what that was, the hat, the rock, like, glowed or something, no one's really quite right,
quite sure exactly how the text came. But yeah, so most Mormons don't like talking about the
sphere stone, rock and the hat. And that's more people will talk about how that's, yeah,
which just translated like through reading it, you know, he just like understudied Egyptian,
basically. But yeah, is it like an is like an inconvenient truth of the of like, like how
Christians don't like to discuss slavery or something because it makes them feel icky, but
it's there. Yeah, exactly. Okay. Okay, so and is it true that this is something that I thought was
profound in the South Park episode? I'm a huge fan of South Park. We named our dog butters
from character from South Park. So he, he, so is it true that they were the wife of someone was
not convinced of this whole golden plate business and then took away the manuscripts of the original
doctrine that was written. And then Joseph Smith went away and prayed and said, God's angry at you.
We can't use this original document anymore. We have to use a different document, which will be
slightly different in details, but tells the same general story. Is that accurate? Yeah, that's
pretty accurate. So it's called the last 116 pages. The only thing where people are kind of
uncertain is they still haven't been found is so Martin Harris was the man who he was working with
Joseph. He had a lot of money. He was really invested in the church. His wife was was less so
she didn't buy it. And so basically Martin begged Joseph, I think it was three times to be able to
borrow the documents. And Joseph would pray to the Lord each time. And the Lord told Joseph, no,
you cannot share these documents. They're really sacred. They need to stay in your hands. So
he prayed once, the Lord said, no, he prayed again, the Lord said, no, the third time,
the Lord said, because you keep asking me, I'm going to say yes, but I don't want to get to say
yes. It's a piece of God's arm. It's a piece of God's arm. Yes. And he gave Martin the manuscript.
And then, and then they were lost. So that is kind of, there are a lot of different like
theories. A common theory is that Lucy Harris, you know, destroyed them or hid them. So that
then they could like compare because that was the idea, right? Was that if if Joseph is really
translating these literally word for word, then he should be able to do it again. And so that was
that was the test. But the Lord is angry. At least this is like what Mormon doctrine teaches
that the Lord is angry with Martin and with Joseph and with Lucy as well. But especially for them,
him like trying to persuade God. And so he said, nope, like you lost, you lost that. And so that
was kind of Joseph's rebuttal was, yeah, like we sinned, I shouldn't have asked him again. And so
now we don't get this text anymore. Because the other thought was, maybe Lucy would be changing
the manuscript or something to be changing it to look like he was lying and try and catch him in
a lie. Right. He wasn't anyway. So yeah, so then he so that was called the book of the high,
which was what the 116 pages were. And then he retranslated it into the book of Nephi,
who is Lehi's son. And that is one of the most popular books in the Book of Mormon. And a lot
of that is is saying, and then my father told me this, so it's kind of a summary of what stories
yeah. So that way it's still the same stories, but it's told through a different lens.
And if the if the original ones ever rocked up, then it could always be argued that on Nephi,
just remembered it wrong when his father told him or something. And like the small details were
okay. They're not an issue. Yeah, okay. It could be a little bit of, you know, changes based on
perspective. Really smart, actually. And that's clever. Yeah, really clever. Yeah. Yeah. And so
then is it true that Mormonism Mormons like kind of went to find their own homeland, they kind of
settled in Utah. Is that right? Eventually? Yep. Yep. So they were kind of they were kicked out of
New York for practicing polygamy, especially on ethically, they moved to Ohio, I believe, and
Missouri. And anyway, they were just kind of causing some political ruckus. And then they made
their way to Utah. And that's really settled. Wow. Okay. So yeah. So the own, I think the only time
I've actually come across a Mormon in real life, I was driving down the street and I saw these
two two guys in like white shirts, ties, jeans, riding pushparks. I was like, Mormons, there's
actually Mormons like here. And I'm so excited. I was like this first time I've seen them in real
life. This is so cool. I want to like know more about them. So this isn't a huge thing in Australia.
Like Australia, we, you know, I'm sure parts of the US don't have a lot of Mormons either,
but in Australia, it's definitely like we don't have much at all. So this is all very new to me.
So, so you were a Mormon though, you're a strong Mormon, you're not anymore. Could you touch a
little bit on your story? Like, so like being baptized at eight, is that the like the age of
accountability and yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I have, I grew up Mormon and I have pioneer ancestry. So
basically like my relatives from I think like both sides crossed the plains in that time period and
came to Utah. So like multi-generational six generations, I think is what it is.
Mormons, everyone has kind of stayed in Utah. So that's kind of been like the bread and butter
that I've known that I've learned my whole life. And I didn't even really question it. And yeah,
so children are baptized at eight rather than at birth or as infants as I think other Christian
religions will do. And the idea with that is that then they'll be more accountable. They'll
understand. I think the point is to try and, you know, offer children agency, although the argument
is that there is still no agency at eight or understanding of what this is. But anyway,
yes, I was baptized at eight and which made me a full-fledged member and I was active and loved it
my whole childhood. Oh, cool. So you mentioned, I remember reading, I'll link to some of your
writings down below. I remember reading your story, I'm not sure if you called it a story,
baptized by ISO, or is it like you're writing baptized by ISO, I read that. And you mentioned
how you felt when you were eight and you were baptized, you felt condemned because you thought of
the word damn. So yeah, can you explain a little bit of that? Yeah, so Mormonism is a really high
demand religion where basically how Mormon Kingdom, like Mormon heaven works is you have to be Mormon
first of all to get there. And you have to have specific ordinances that you're making in the
temple, things like celestial marriage to someone of the opposite sex, having gone through the temple,
you know, things like this. And baptism is the very first ordinance that you can make and you
make that at eight. And so that's when, you know, you're really committing. And once you're at that
age, then once you can sin, well, then you can lose your slot in heaven. And so when I was thinking
this way, we're damn, they're, you know, I didn't, I'm eight years old, I don't know exactly what's
going on. And so I'm taught in church every single week, you know, that thoughts and actions are the
same, they have the same severity. And so in my little brain, I thought that that was like, that
was the worst thing I could think of a person doing in the world was thinking the word.
I was like, that's probably the pinnacle, like there's nothing worse that someone can do. And if I
think it, and so I think when like, yeah, like intrusive thoughts, I'm like, oh my gosh, I'm like
ruining my salvation in this moment, because I can't stop like thinking very words. So
anyway, of course, I had to repent for that. And I hope it's funny, I can relate to that a little
bit. I've, I have suffered through a bit of OCD in my life, pure OCD. And I remember first going
to a psychologist, and he told me, he wanted to demonstrate the fact that like, when you try not
to do something, you end up doing it. So he's like, think of the pink elephant. And I'm like, okay,
so he's like, now you're going to spend the next minute trying really hard to think of the pink
elephant. So I did for a minute. And he's like, you're going to count every time your mind drifts
off. And I'm like, okay. And then he's like, now you're going to spend the next minute not trying
not to think of the pink elephant. I'm like, okay, so I'm trying really hard to think of it. And he's
like, you're going to count every time you do think of the pink elephant. And so anyway,
ended up being like 20, 30 times within a minute each time. And then he goes, he goes, that's
interesting. And I go, yeah. And then he goes, anyway, so when did you meet Amy? And I was like,
oh, I'll just talking about stuff. And we're talking for a couple of minutes. And he said,
how many times have you thought of the pink elephant? And I said, Oh, oh, none. And he goes,
exactly. It's like, as soon as you try not to do something or try to do something, it keeps coming
back. And there's actually a really interesting thing with people who have pure OCD or a form of
OCD. There's a type of OCD that deals specifically with religion, because religion teaches you
these thoughts. A lot of people would go to church. And as soon as they walked through the door,
they would get really blast like blasphemous, horrible thoughts, like the worst thoughts you
could think of. And they would literally like, they would think it was like demonic. So they would
push hard against it. And then it would grow bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger. And
the way you treat that is you let the thought come. Obviously, you have to deliberately think
of these blasphemous thoughts. So one of my psychologists was mentioning how hard it was
for him to try and convince someone that, no, no, just you've got to think these thoughts.
You've got to let them be there. Just let them come. Wash over you and disappear. Don't fight
against them. Because obviously, in religion, you're taught that these things are not all
religions. But in the religion I was part of, and it sounds like the religion you're part of,
that thought's worth sin. You could think and have sinful thoughts. And they were your own,
and you're in control of them. And so yeah, it can be really, really hard to deal with when someone
has that type of brain chemistry. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. And I think Mormonism is so, like I
said, high demand. Church is three hours a week, but it's not just that it's you have meetings
multiple times a week outside of church. It's just it's so especially living in Utah, it was
like 90% of my neighbors in my high school were all part of the same religion. And so I think
you take this tendency toward obsession, and then you make it everything around you.
Yeah. Well, and you're really young. And so I think that's just like it was a really,
yeah, it was a perfect storm, you know, for that to explode more later with like
with anxiety and things like that. And I think that's a pretty common experience for a lot of
people within high demand religions. It's just like such a place for those like obsessions and
intrusive thoughts and. Oh, yeah. Do you, does Mormonism have any like spiritual woo-woo like
involved? Like I was part of a church, we spoke in tongues, we laid hands on people, people passed
out, praise and worship for four hours, like things like that. We're all night prayer meetings
sometimes. Is there any of that in Mormonism or is it a pretty? A little. So not tongues.
There are blessings. And I think a lot of it is somewhat similar things within Christianity, but
like the language is changed. So laying on of hands would be priesthood blessings.
That's consistent. Yeah. So like anointing oil, I'm not sure how common that is.
Yeah. But yeah, we did anointing oil. That became like there was a fringe sect of our church that
was really into anointing oil and like gold dust and stuff. And they were like anointing people
and stuff. Yeah. Yeah. But it wasn't, it wasn't priest. It was just randoms running around the
church with a bottle of canola oil running on people's heads. It's like, let's help you.
Yeah. I would say this woo is within like the temple ceremonies. That's kind of when it starts
to get a little bit more culty and weird. But that's something that, you know, people don't
really know about before they go to it. And so I think on the outside, especially, it's just like
very wholesome, very like family oriented, charming, squeaky clean, you know, it's kind of the
vibes that most. Yeah. Like a lot of people, a lot of people, you know, they kind of view religion,
like when they're in it, they don't think it's so necessarily so weird. But from an outside
perspective, a lot of the stuff that I took for like common was extremely weird. I have a
really good Muslim friend. Her name is Michelle. And she got invited to a Catholic wedding where
she lives in the Philippines. And she went along and she's messaging me through the surface like,
okay, so now they're drinking this red wine and bread. And I'm like, I'm trying to explain to her.
And I'm like, okay, I'm like, trying to explain to a Muslim, I'm like, so, so that's it's symbolic
for Jesus's flesh. And the wine is symbolic for his blood. And Christians drink that
not as like a witchcraft thing, but kind of like as a, when Jesus was around with his 12 or so
before he got crucified, like, and it's so weird to try and like, try and explain this without
sounding like a lunatic, like, to someone who's outside of the religion, it's like, what do you
mean you're drinking Jesus's blood, eating his flesh? What do you mean? And she's, and then she's
like, wait, no one actually thinks it's like his blood. I'm like, well, no, we didn't. But there are,
you know, some Catholic sects do believe that it actually turns into the flesh of Christ and
his actual blood. And she's just like, she's trying to understand. But like, the more I try to explain
it, the more weird it just came across. And it gave me a lot of respect for like, you know, other
religions where it's like, okay, look, this is very weird to me. But look, look, man.
Yeah, I can't talk. Yeah, I remember when I was a kid, I was probably like 10. It was a similar
thing where I had cousins who I was trying to convert, you know, I was trying to be all like
professional and save them. And I was like, and we took them to church, and I was trying to explain
them like the sacrament, like this is, this is Jesus's body. And like my 10 year old cousin was
like, ew, I was like, ew, what do you mean? Ew, like, that's just grossness.
Yeah, it's so funny. Hey, I had some, I had some friends who I recently reconnected back with
and they were mentioning when because I'm not a Christian anymore. But I, I bet I was very
hardcore Christian in high school when I got when I had my spiritual experience. And I remember
he mentioned to me goes, it just felt like all the time you talk to us, you're trying to like
convert us. But I knew that wasn't the case. Like I knew you wouldn't do it. And I like, no,
that was 100% the case. Like I was doing everything I could to try and convert as many
people. Like, and he's like, oh, I'm like, yeah, like, like my goal was to convert everyone. Like
it wasn't like a, you know, I would every every choice I made, I would, you know, it was to help
someone experience the same things that I experienced and have the connection with the same
God that I thought I was having a connection with. So yeah, it's, I can really relate to that. I was
like wanting to do that to someone. And they kind of just think it's a little bit weird.
Yeah. So, so you, how long were you Mormon for? You grew up in a church, right? And
and eventually you found a partner? Yes. Yes. So I was active, fully believing until I was
mid 20s, 22, wish early 20s, I guess. But yeah, so when I was 19, I got married. So in moment,
that's not weird. And Mormonism also, I'm not, at least, these are the time very, very young
marriages is a thumbs up as long as like 19 is pretty common 1920. And that's part of, because
like I mentioned a few minutes ago, one of the most important ordinances is eternal marriage
with someone of the opposite sex. And so that is literally the only way you can make it to the
highest level of heaven. Because yes, heaven is hierarchical. Right. Yes. If you're not the
single people, actually, this is just a brief side tangent. The single people are our servants to
the Mary. No. In the hierarchy. I was going to make a joke about like, are they like the janitors
like sweeping up after people? Really? That's rough. So, so obviously Mormonism mostly today,
I imagine the sect of Mormonism that you were part of wasn't polyamorous in their polygamy. Sorry,
I'm getting my terminology confused. The gin is already taking effect. It's usually at this time
I start to mess up. But so, but in the polyamorous sects, do they believe that those people like
the more wives you have, or more partners you have, does that mean you're more,
you're even higher up on the hierarchy? Or does it? Yeah, yeah. So, so Mormonism began polygamy
in the 1800s with Joseph Smith. And he was told that that was a revelation from God. And again,
the problem was it was not happening consensually. There's a lot of manipulation. So anyway,
that's actually why they kept getting driven to Utah because they kept sleeping with other people's
wives and people were getting angry. And so they actually stopped polygamy in, I can't remember
what year, sometime in the 1800s, because when they became a state, that was the only way they
could become a state was they had to stop polygamy. They were getting in trouble with the law. So,
what they did was they stopped it. Mortal polygamy is how they phrase it. So, on earth, you can
actually are in this life. You can be excommunicated if you're practicing polygamy, because that's
something of the past. But it is still viewed as there is polygamy in heaven. And that was an
eternal doctrine. And so, yeah. And so, I think in Joseph Smith times, it was three wives or more.
I think at that point, as long as you have three... And again, this is one of those things that
Mormons really don't want to talk about very much. It's not talked about at church very often. But
yeah, three wives is kind of the minimum. And fundamentalist Mormon, which is like a separate
sect of Mormonism, is probably similar there too with about three. But yeah. And so then now,
people who are married, men's, because women can't have more than one husband, but men's.
Yeah. That's what I was going to ask. I was going to ask that.
Yeah. Yeah. So, it is just like strictly polygamy rather than like
polyandry or polyamory. There was, historically, there were a few wives that were married before.
Anyway, it's kind of complicated. But the doctrine is men can have multiple wives, because
I'm trying not to go like crazy, deep, confusing doctors.
No. Go as deep. This is called the Deep Drinks podcast. Let's go as deep as you want.
Within the Mormon heaven, each man gets to have his own... This will come up later in the story.
So, there's some foreshadowing. Each man has his own kingdom of God. Okay. And then he has
wives who are like queens of the kingdom. But a woman cannot have her kingdom by herself. So,
she just goes into the man's kingdom and there's like a co-queen priestess, I guess, to his kingdom.
So, anyway, that's kind of where like the... Why it has to be polygamous specifically,
because you have a man at the center of each kingdom. Women are helping being the help means
is actually the term. And... Hang on. This sound... This is so... So, would anyone... If I was to drag
a Mormon into this call, would they have any issues with the way you just interpreted the
event? Or is that pretty on point? They would probably not like my flippancy. They wouldn't
disagree with any of the things that I've been saying. Okay. Because that is so far out to me. I
don't even... That's the best... Yeah. Well, like I said before, each religion looks funny from the
outside, right? But something that is really interesting that I've noticed with a lot of these
stories, I interviewed my wife. I interviewed Heathen Coyne. And we talked about the difference in
purity culture in the Christian church. So, I don't know if you ever saw those interviews,
or if it's the same in Mormonism. But essentially, women were taught to cover up,
stop men from stumbling. And essentially, if you show a little bit of cleavage, or you show a
little bit of your skirts too short, you're going to make a man stumble. And the man was... We were
taught, we would essentially have anti-masturbation clubs, where we try to keep each other accountable
for not touching ourselves as 15-year-old boys or whatever. And it's like this deadly spiral,
because the boys are taught their predators, essentially. And that they've got to hold back
their urges. And I love what Heathen Coyne said. She said, not honoring the needs of your body.
And then women, and then they're going hormonal, and they're going weeks without masturbating,
or whatever. And then women are told that if they wear a dress that's too low-cut,
they're going to make a man stumble. And of course, the man's going to stumble,
because he hasn't touched himself in 15 days or whatever. And it's just this cycle, right?
And what I found really interesting is I've become a lot more, I guess,
progressive in my thoughts over the last, since deconstructing my faith. And I'm like,
why can't women be filthy perverted? Why can't women want to have as much sex as men?
I know, obviously, there is different hormones going on. And biologically, men have his drive
to reproduce or something. But I know many women who would like sex as much as men,
and I know men that don't like to have sex as much as some women. So it's this weird thing
that religions do, where it's like, men are seen as this... Religion seems very anti-feministic,
in a way, very misogynistic, almost. And of course, we might touch on that,
because I'm reading your stuff, it seems like you've experienced a lot of that first hand.
Yeah, yeah. I mean, I think pretty culture is a major element of the Mormon church.
And just kind of, yeah, that same idea that women are responsible for men's thoughts and for men's
actions. And it's like, I mean, my husband and I will compare the types of lessons that we were
getting as teenagers. And for the guys, it's just so much of this, your body is going to explode
at any minute. And then for the women, we would be told constantly, I remember being told,
never touch a man's knee, because he won't be able to help himself. And so this obviously leads
into major issues with consent later. And also just people don't know what they're doing,
people are just uncomfortable. And everyone is struggling silently with purity culture,
and not going to let it get shared. I mean, men are constantly told about how dangerous
pornography is and how it's an addiction. And women are told that if they wear a tank top,
they are literally, this is a quote from a church leader, you are walking pornography.
So it's just this really convoluted thing that I think sounds like it's so common
across Christian communities around. Yeah. Yeah, it really is. It's something that I've only
recently wrapped my head around, like talking to a lot of, you know, talking to ladies about this,
because I didn't, I never saw that side of it. And it's been such a huge revelation to me.
Also, like, a heathen queen always sends me, Jessica, she always sends me screenshots of random
dudes who message her. And I'm like, I have, I men have, let me tell you, the only, like,
hot girls, big boobs that come into my profile, just trying to scam me, like they're trying to get
me to click on a link, I have no real, like, girls messaging me like, Hey, what you doing?
Oh, hey, cutie, like, but it seems like women get this all the time. And I don't know. My mind
is opening. I'm becoming more progressively feminist every single day. So you eventually got
married, right? And I was wondering if we could touch a little bit on your marriage,
and talk about that, because that is a big part of your story from what I understand.
Yep. Yep. So when I was, when I was 19, I was married. And I guess an important part to mention
too, is that I was married in the Mormon temple. And I'm not sure how much you know about that.
Okay. Well,
fill us in.
So the Mormon temple is very, it's very exclusive. It's, it's discussed very consistently as like
the pinnacle of the religion. It's, you know, that's what you're working toward. And that's why
eternal marriage is so important, because you have to do what they call taking out your endowment,
which is just a ceremony that you go through in the Mormon temple, you have to be worthy to go
which means, you know, a virgin, extra careful, no coffee, you know, just like some things like that.
No coffee. No coffee, actually. Yeah. Isn't that interesting?
Wow. That's so weird. Coffee, coffee is a huge like subculture in Christianity in Australia.
Like it's like all that coffee. Every Christian's like, I love my coffee. Gotta have my coffee. It's
like a big meme. Well, that's how I am now. Yeah, nothing wrong with that. I'm the same, but yeah.
Yeah, no, that's funny. Yeah, but yeah. So, so just if you, it's one of the more abstract,
I guess, kind of roles, but yeah, coffee is like very, it's just like a sign of obedience
to not have it. So anyway, yeah, things like that. Once you're, if you're a men, tend to
go on Mormon missions, which is a two year mission, that's where you saw the people on the
bikes going around Australia. Yeah, men are going on missions now as well. But it used to be pretty
much primarily men. And anyway, so they would go through the temple before they go on a mission
for women generally, before they get married, you take out this endowment, which is the ceremony.
You are granted the Mormon garment, which is underwear that has specific symbols that you
wear day and night all the time. So that's where the Mormon kind of modesty culture comes in is
all Mormons have the same underwear, the same, and that's why, you know, long sleeves, long pants
to kind of cover up the Mormon garment that you receive at the temple. You receive a new name.
This is the name that your husband will call to you from heaven. If you make it that far.
Wait, you receive a new name? Yes, you receive a new name. It's very, it's, and this, oh man,
there's so many things. The thing also is women tell their husband and their husband is the one
to pull them through to heaven. But the men, the men can never tell their wife what their names are.
For some reason. So, and it's very... So the men, so, so is this in all Mormon marriages or just the
temple? Just the temple. Okay. So is it like a special, is it one temple or is there multiple
temples? Yeah, so there are multiple temples. So you have the church houses. Those are just the
weekly things you go to. There's hundreds every couple miles in Utah and they're all over the world.
Mormon temples, I think there are about 200 worldwide now and they're constantly building them.
So you probably, I think they have one in Australia somewhere. But maybe you've seen pictures. They're
gorgeous, just castle-like buildings. And that's where they do the temple work, which is baptizing
people for the dead, doing temple work for them, post-death, basically giving people that have
already passed away, these ordinances, so they can make it to heaven if they didn't already.
That's where the marriages happen, things like that. So I'll bring up, whoa, okay.
Okay, let me just share the screen because this is, this is nuts.
You're blowing my mind. I thought I knew a little bit about Mormonism, but like...
So, it looks like a Disney castle for one, like a really nice Disney castle.
Damn. So we, whoa, they are massive. So you got married, so what's the, can we
know the mind you got married in or? Yep, yep. So if you look up that one,
that's the Salt Lake Temple. So, yeah. You got married in there? I did indeed, yeah.
Yeah. My gosh, that's crazy. Was that expensive? Do you mind me asking?
No, it's free. It's free. You just have to be pure, you just have to be pure enough.
Pure enough, yeah. But only ordained Mormons or endowed Mormons can attend these. So no children,
no family, if your family is not Mormon or anything like that. So you get married in this
very, you have very specific temple clothing, so a dress, a bonnet, you have to avail your,
women have to avail their face. Anyway, so that's kind of like how the temple ceremony goes.
Within 48 hours of getting married, that's when you like go through the temple to have your
husband pull you through. So you're granted a new name. That's the name they'll pull you through
the temple or through the resurrection to heaven one day. And then you take out, you make these
promises, you make these promises to commit your life to the church. You promise that you would give
10% of your income for the rest of your life to the church. And then you also promise that you
will harken, women promise to harken under their husbands, men promise to harken unto God.
And that's when I think I started being like, hmm, that's a little weird. And so anyway,
so about 48 hours before I got married, I went through the temple. So I took out, got the new
name, took out this endowment was given the underwear. And then, yeah, then a couple of days
later, got married and the mean is gorgeous, gorgeous venue. And then, yeah, and then things
started to get worse. So okay, there's so much to unpack there. So I almost need to do it like a
almost like a deep dive and like I need to learn more. I thought I did research, but I obviously
didn't know there's just so much. And the thing is, a lot of it is like not talked about on my
public forums as much. So yeah, as much of it. So you got married. And he knew your new name,
and that's not the Lyssa Issa. That's like, legally change your name.
It's actually a name that you're not allowed to stay outside of one specific room within the
temple. Okay, cool. So, okay, cool. Well, I want to ask you to say that then.
I mean, I don't care anymore. So what was your name? I'm interested. It's Lucy.
Lucy. And okay. Thank you. So here's another quick, quick thing. So that I just think is an
interesting fact. So we're taught that the temple names are, well, they are incredibly sacred.
And we know that they're really important. And we're told that they are specifically chosen for
us by God. So we go in there. And it's like our true, our truest name. Right. And so, you know,
I was like, so excited and honored. And I'm also kind of nervous, obviously. And then I found out
later that actually, there was obviously not divinely given, but there's a list on the internet.
And actually, I'm not, I mean, it is on the internet, but there's a list within the temples of
the temple role, where every day of the month, each person is like, a name is for whatever day
that is. So anywhere in the world, if someone's going through the temple that day, so anyone who
went through the temple on May, on March 2nd, ever, or the second of any month, they're also Lucy.
And so, um, yeah, that was really, that was really disengaging.
Oh, wow. That's must have felt like, oh, bummer, like, I thought this was like, God gave me a new
name. And it was the same for me. And then also like, it's so secretive, you know, you're not
supposed to tell, but everybody else in there had the same thing. So it's just, it's just really
interesting. Kind of like all this, you know, whispering the name to your husband, when the
person to curtain slots down for you also has that name. So it's just kind of.
Right. And so you, I'm imagining you never learnt your husband's name. No, I never did.
No. Interesting. Okay. So you get into this marriage, you're 19.
You know, um, starry eyed, like, uh, he was the handsome guy at church. Is that right? Or like,
you were, yeah, yeah. And you're like, I think you met a church and you get into this relationship
and you go on your honeymoon. And I was wondering if you could touch on a little bit of your,
because you guys were virgins when you met. And obviously this is uncomfortable enough to talk
about it, but what was it like being virgins and marrying someone in Mormonism?
That. I mean, part of the problem, you know, and this is something that I care about a lot now is
people aren't taught, again, they're not taught what sex is supposed to be like. They're not
taught about consent. They're not taught about expectations, especially for women. Any sort
of like pleasure or sex drive or understanding of things like that. And so I was, you know, this
kid that was just completely ignorant and my husband was as well. And so the, basically the
relationship immediately became abusive, um, sexually. And, you know, I go back and forth
all the time, analyzing on like, if this was intentional on his part, or if he was just ignorant
as well. And I think it probably was just a combination of both. So we go on a honeymoon.
Um, it is, I mean, it's just like a complete switch flips with him. And I think that's part
of what is so hard is like, I think I know this person because this, you know, sexuality is so
literally, you know, not a part of the relationship at all. And then as soon as that becomes legal,
it's like the whole, the floodgates open. And I think on some extent, I'm assuming that's probably
common in a lot of marriages where people, you know, suddenly are like, yay, everything's fine.
Um, but again, what happened was he didn't understand consent. I didn't understand consent.
And so, um, you know, he was pushing things and things were painful really quickly. And,
you know, there was no real conversation of like what boundaries were, what was okay,
what wasn't okay. Just like instantly. You mentioned about the leaving the public restroom
and meeting an elder. Yep. And there was a, there was a click in your brain about divine, like,
divine, um, um, like, should this, this elder should have been able to pick up something,
but he didn't. Yeah. Oh, sorry. Yeah, go, go, go, go, go. Yeah.
Yeah. So this was really important, I think, um, and something that like I grappled with a lot.
So we were coming home from the honeymoon, things are still not going well. Um, and I mean,
it's not even just that things are awkward. It is that like, I'm crying, I'm telling him, no,
he's just completely ignoring me. And it's like, I'm media. It's like, I'm with a completely new
person. So quickly. Um, anyway, so again, he really likes kind of like public sex, pulls me
into a, a bathroom at the airport. We leave the bathroom and we see an apostle of Jesus. And I
guess this is something that I would like to clarify as well is it was even more than just
like an elder. So within the Mormon church, there's, um, it's a global church rate, 4.8 million
active members. And there are three men at the very top. And then there are 12 men immediately
below him. Um, and he was one of those 12 men. So it's like, he's, yeah, so a huge figure. Um,
speaking at, um, he's, we're told that he is literally like a prophet, serum revelator
for God, like that phone to God, right? He, yeah, yeah. What's that? And so, um, we never met
an apostle before. Like this is, this is huge for us. This isn't even just, um, you know,
it's kind of like seeing a celebrity in person. And so it was, I mean, I can't make this
shit up because it was like, leave the bathroom one minute, 60 seconds later or less, we run into,
um, uh, Eller Bedner. And, uh, and I think like at the time it was, it was kind of hard for me
to process, but especially like in the essay, I'm kind of talking about like this really odd
interaction to be like, what are the odds, you know, seeing this person. And so for me, I'm like,
this is divine intervention, you know, really bad stuff is happening. We see this, you know,
divine man immediately after like this must be a message from God, you know, he is here to set
everything straight easier to like save us and help me. Um, and I really believe that and my
husband was so excited. And also it's just weird because yeah, we're just like fresh out for honeymoon
and awkward and, and he's, um, yeah, he like is bearing his there. My husband is bearing his
testimony to the apostle. The apostle is talking about how proud he is of us. And, um, in Mormonism
we're taught that the people at the top leaders of the church have, um, um, oh, I just forgot the
word, but basically, uh, sort of the D anyway, it doesn't matter, but like a literal ability to, um,
of discernment, that's the power of discernment, um, which someone, yeah, like we're taught they
can literally like basically read your mind, um, to some extent, you know, and so they can discern
if someone is lying, they can discern if someone is worthy, they can discern like the truth of things
and especially someone that has these priesthood keys, which is this power of being an apostle.
Like this isn't just a regular priesthood holder. He's like priesthood holder on steroids. And so
I remember feeling in the moment extremely uncomfortable thinking like,
does he know what just happened in the bathroom one minute ago? And if it was a problem,
then he would say something because like this is a perfect moment. And if it's not a problem,
that either means one, this isn't a problem. I'm not being right. Maybe I'm maybe everything's okay.
Maybe, uh, maybe, uh, I need to be submitting to my husband more or he's not, you know, really
receiving any sort of revelation at all. And so it was really, I mean, I'm sure there's other
nuances to it, but that's really kind of, you know, how it felt and felt and even like looking back,
like because he's seen as such a powerful authority figure, it's hard to kind of like
read other options out of that. So anyway, leaving that scenario, I was left with,
you know, two questions. One, either I'm crazy. This relationship is totally fine and I need
to set it up. Or maybe something's off with the church or at least with his own, with this
elder, this apostles revelation, revelatory power, because he should, he should be able to stop this.
If any, if anybody would be able to set a marathon, the track, it should be him. Why isn't it?
So yeah, yeah, that was a really good point. Yeah. I mean, you do mention that, you know,
after your honeymoon, you were so conflicted with these, these feelings that you were, you were
giving things like spousal rape and how do I know, because you felt so pressured, you were
literally forced into having sex. And not to, it's hard because I'm imagining your husband was also
a virgin, right? And he wasn't taught like what appropriate, appropriate measures were when it
comes to like sexual interaction. And so it's like, you know, he is to blame, of course, for
putting you in that situation. But at the same time, he's part of a system that's broken, that
doesn't teach people to engage with their feelings and to communicate and have a quality in the
bedroom and in marriage. So it's a very, very horrible situation.
Yeah. And I guess I'll just say that like, I think that's part of what makes it so complicated.
This was pre me to literally just a few months before me to actually, which is interesting.
And that was like, mind opening for me, you know, because I kind of
was having, but I do think like, you know, to what, and I think that's, you know, what I really kind
of came to the conclusion of or at least some like grappling with now is institutions put people
in really bad positions. And you, and not everybody who has raised this way is going to become abusive.
But, you know, when, when, you know, my husband was, was using scriptures that were validating
this and was using talks, you know, given by church leaders that that were like, not, I don't
even know if encouraging that word. Well, some of them, yeah. And so it is kind of that, like,
we're both victims in this scenario, you know, granted. I mean, obviously he shouldn't be doing
that. But, you know, it is really hard when systemically and generationally people are not
taught appropriate interactions. They're not taught about consent and not taught much of
really anything. And I think that's part of what makes this, what just makes like religions that
can be so dangerous. Yeah. Very much so. And so you eventually went to the bishop, right,
to try and sort out your marriage and work out what's going on. Yeah. Yeah. And so I think, I mean,
like I said, it was, it was a really, it was shockingly fast, actually, how, how different
the marriage became instantly. And do you mind if I ask, how long we guys courting for dating
before you guys got married? This is embarrassing. It's normal in more minutes. No, no, I have,
I have family members who got married super quick. So you got married after six months.
So. Okay. Yeah, that's pretty quick.
But yeah, so it was really fast. And so like, we didn't know each other, obviously, hardly at all.
We were so young. So he was a couple of years older than me. But we're so young, so just trying
to follow what we were told. And nobody stopped us, which, you know, I mean, we're old enough,
don't necessarily have to be stopped. But anyway, yeah, so I go talk to Bishop to kind of be like
something's off. I'm even talking to my therapist, who is a Mormon, also, who recommends I talk to
my Bishop, like the Bishop has all of the powers. Yeah, if, if Elder Begna's, Begna, Elder Begna,
if his phone to God was broken that day, you could have, the Bishop's phone surely at least
would have connected. This is exactly someone's someone's thing is working. And I think like,
and this is where again, the Bishop, he's untrained. He is just a volunteer.
You know, he has a full time job. Otherwise, like Mormon bishops aren't paid, they're just,
you know, kind of doing their best, just kind of muddling through. I don't think he'd really ever,
he's not trying to deal with this stuff. But at the end of the day, I go into his office,
I put my head at my hands, I say, I don't feel safe at home. And his first response is,
are you reading your scriptures? Are you praying? And I, this was also a problem because
that was what was fueling the abuse at home as well was whenever we were praying, whenever we
were feeling or reading the scriptures, you would feel the spirit, which would then mean that he would,
you know, want to have sex, especially, you know, in ways that I wasn't comfortable with.
Because that was my duty as the wife. And when I was kind of trying to like explain this to
this man, you know, alone in the room, and he didn't know what to do, I was like,
I was just so confused. And he was also, you know, started questioning like,
my activity level in the church, like how strong my testimony was.
When I was telling him that I was, you know, having concerns, and I've been talking with
my parents and with my therapist, and I was trying to work through it, he was questioning
their activity levels in the church. And if they were like worthy to be giving me advice.
And so it's like, even in this, you know, dangerous situation, the conversation still
was coming back to like worthiness and to scripture study, and to, you know, just like
these standard like Mormon religious answers. And I think that's when I was like,
I, something's wrong. Something's really, really wrong. I think that I probably would
have spent more time, because you're right, like, we're taught in church as well, like,
we are taught that, luckily, I mean, this is a benefit, I guess, of Mormonism is that
therapy, at least in the past, I don't know, five years, maybe has been less stigmatized.
I mean, it still is a little bit has gone significantly less stigmatized. There are
church specific therapists as well, but there are like secular therapists. And so by this
point, I had been, you know, somewhat comfortable seeking therapy outside of
church leaders, because, and I can't remember if I had this in my essay or not, but I had an
eating disorder at the church school, which that's a whole other side tangent, I guess, but
and so I had to go through pretty intensive like eating disorder treatment. And that was through,
you know, radio psychologists, radio therapists, eating disorder specific. And so I think by that
point, like, even though I was still in like this, obviously, like toxic relationship, and when the
bishop was saying these things, I'd been to therapists enough, and talk to some of these
things that I could tell that there was something different, you know, and yeah. Yeah. And so I
think that, um, you know, I wasn't, uh, I knew, you know, what a trained professional would say.
I knew what I would expect someone to say when I was telling them that something bad was going on.
And so I was like, huh, I think, yeah, I think this isn't as helpful as it as it could be. But
I mean, I think it's it's scary to think about the people that will only rely on on those church
resources because they feel like, you know, the secular or non-religious therapy is dangerous,
or as taboo, and that can, you know, can cause again so much damage because these people don't
have the training to really be helpful, especially with like different severity levels, you know,
they can maybe like, you know, get a hot chocolate to feel better, but not working on like severe
mental dilemmas. Yeah. Or they'll do things like they'll do like cliches from like the 1950s,
like let's look back at what happened when you were three and you're like, what? Like this is,
I don't think anyone does this anymore. Like this is an old idea. Well, down on the couch,
like that's what I saw on TV. Yeah, exactly. So you get back from your honeymoon, the bishop
doesn't help with any of this stuff, but then you guys, you end up telling your husband like,
I'm out of here, right? Like you're like, this is not working. Yep. So we get divorced
really, really quickly. So the whole relationship is a whirlwind. It's less than a year from
dating to divorce. And so, yeah, so it's like ripping a band-aid off. Oh, yeah. Putting it on
and then ripping it off. I'm sticking on, kidding it off. It's wild. Yeah. So, so we did it.
Did you have, just curious, did you have a lot of like, when you were considering the divorce,
well, I'm sure you're considering it privately for a while, but when you're publicly considering
your divorce, did you have like the church like come in like, no, you're going to blemish the
church's name or this isn't right by God, Heavenly Father? A little bit. So, yeah, so I had that
conversation with the bishop where, where he was saying, well, actually, yeah, he was saying,
you know, I think you should stay in this. And I said, yeah, I don't feel safe. Also,
this relationship is like very sexist. And he's like, right, it should be. That's what we
do. Oh, that's so messed up. He's like, he's like, yes, go on.
Yeah. And I was like, hmm, this is, this is, anyway, so, so he was like, gung-ho, everything's
fine. And I was really bothered by that. So I start going to hire up the food chain of church
leaders. And I didn't have, well, I mean, it was complicated because I did have multiple church
leaders that were like, I mean, that the bishop was like, this sounds like it's fine. And then I
had this other stake president who, again, was a little bit higher say, well, that, that doesn't
sound good. I feel like he's misusing the doctrine of the church, because I would, you know, tell him
which things were happening and what was happening based on the scriptures, because that really,
honestly, was kind of the crux of the, of the dilemma I was having was everything that was
abusive was tied back to the doctrine. Somehow it was followed by a prayer followed by a blessing
followed by something. Anyway, and so I had this other bishop who was saying, you know,
as members of the church, we want to keep this eternal commitment. This is what we've signed up
for. And then he was saying, but as like, he kind of like stepped out of his role a little bit and
said, I've seen like my, I have a daughter who's been in an unhealthy marriage. And I think that
it can be dangerous. So maybe, you know, it's not the, it's not the worst thing if, if you jump ship
and jumped back into bishop mode saying, but, you know, pray about it. And then,
but also this doesn't seem to, anyway, so it's kind of a little bit of that vacillating.
I had this son, I used to have pastors do that, like, I'm like, oh, should I watch The Godfather?
Like I asked him, like, as a friend, it's a great movie. As a Christian, no, you shouldn't
just tell me what your ends like, you know, keep going. Exactly. Yeah, yeah. And, you know, I
really, I just was like, I think I just, I just knew I was like, this is this bad, this fast,
like it's going to get so much worse. We, the faster I leave the, the, the less attangled things
will be. So anyway, so then I, I, we got divorced. And I did have to meet because we'd been
sealed in the temple. I had to meet with a lot of different state church, church leaders to
basically like defend that I was leaving on a three maybe. So I guess that's not a lot, but felt
like a lot. And they, they kind of gave varying answers as well. A lot of it was, well, I'm really
glad that you're safe now. That again, that was misinterpret, that was misinterpreting this part
of the doctrine. This part of the doctrine is good. Anyway, so we had a lot of conversations
with different church leaders, kind of like discussing the nuances of, of the doctrine
with the marriage and what it meant when I was so young to be getting divorced and where it was so
short. And anyways, it was, it was complicated. Wow. So did he get reprimanded or anything?
Did like he get like little visits? No, right? Cause he's a man. Cause he's a man. Yeah. And
that's something that was pretty complicated. I didn't report him legally. I thought about it for
a while, but I didn't end up reporting him. But I did. Well, the thing, again, that was so strange,
that was hard for me was I did tell, you know, these bishops what had happened. And I said,
you know, I think, cause there are church disciplinary actions that happen for, in theory,
for things like this. And I also, in order to be able to be legally divorced, I was required to
like, basically send a plea to the top three. So we have of the church. So we have the top three
leaders. And then we have the top 12. And I met one of the top 12 in the airport, if we remember.
But I did have to say a letter. I had to explain everything that had happened,
explain why I wanted to divorce and how to be signed by the first presidency.
And I guess I kind of thought, you know, I'm explaining what happened. And they would be like,
wow, that's really bad. Let's, let's make sure that he's disciplined or something.
And instead they just sent me an email back that was like, all of your blessings of the
marriage will be revoked starting immediately. You know, and so anyway, I guess,
did you wait? So did you have to like, so you're wearing the underwear every day, right? And these
are, is this long underwear? Is that what I've seen? It's two pieces. No, it used to be one piece,
but it is two pieces, but yeah, it's, it's long. So. Right. So do you wear, so when do you take
this off? Like, when do you stop wearing the magical underwear, like this special underwear?
Never. You have to wear, I mean, you can take it off. But like, forever, for the rest of forever.
Oh, no, I mean, like, um, like when do you take it off when you've decided to leave your husband?
Or do you, like, do you? Oh, no, I personally, yeah. Yeah, yeah, personally, sorry.
Was that part of the blessings that were removed is what I was kind of asking?
Nope. So once you're, once a person is endowed through the temple, then they have to keep them
on regardless of if they get divorced or something. So. Oh, okay. Okay. Interesting. Okay.
Sorry. I'm just trying to understand. There's a lot of random, like,
do you know what? It is, um, I'll tell you what though, like when I was looking at it last night,
like the story of like, you know, um, you know, uh, you know, traveling, you know,
ancient Israelites traveling to America and, and all this, that it was kind of cool. Like,
it was, it's a fun religion. Like there's some fun stuff. Like, besides all the harm religion
does, it was, it's a fun one. It's like Catholicism. They have so many cool little outfits. Like,
it's like, wow, this is, this is interesting and relics and, you know, like it's cool. Um,
so, so obviously you get divorced and stuff. Does this like damage your faith at all? Or like,
were you starting to question at this stage, like your Mormonism? Yep. So this is when I started
to question a tiny bit, very small. I'm still like holding on really steadfast. Um, but I'm,
I'm starting to get, you know, triggered by a lot of the things that my husband would say and like,
the songs he would sing better than coming up in church. Um, and so I would say it was just like
a little bit of a nick in my testimony where a lot of what I was doing at this point, trying to
meet with church leaders, you know, was basically trying to like take him out of my testimony,
but I was finding that I couldn't. And so at the time I was thinking that any of my questioning
of the testimony was just trauma related, which I think part of it, you know, was,
but you know, I think what was so hard was everything that he said was backed up in
scripture somewhere. And so that was starting, you know, to kind of nag a little bit, but I was
still very, very, very orthodox and active, still wearing the underwear, still going to church every
week, still, um, you know, people would consider me very active, very stalwart, very orthodox and
not breaking any rules or anything like that. No coffee. No heaven. No, not even class.
Yeah. Damn coffee. Yeah.
Okay. So, so then how do you walk? Like, how do you start questioning your faith or,
or is there more to the story in there? You're currently married to someone else.
Is that right? You're a lovely, lovely, uh, child.
Yeah. So yeah, he, I have, we have a two year old. So, so, um, remember when I got my new name in
the temple and I was taken, got Lucy? Well, I went with my parents to the temple because they're
active. And I guess for their whole, um, they've been starting to find the temple a little
culty, um, because it kind of is. But they didn't. You're answering some of the Q and A questions.
Yes.
We didn't want to, um, say it, right? They didn't, they, they kind of were struggling
with their testimonies. And I was struggling with the testimonies. They just thought the
temple was weird. I was seen as extremely devout, extremely stalwart. I was like the
golden child. And where the temple is seen as like the pinnacle of the religion, the most
beautiful moment. They expected me this time I get to go through it, you know, is going to be
this really beautiful experience. And I'm really, really just deeply bothered. I, I am crying
throughout the ceremony. I just feel icky. I feel, you know, I, the veiling feels sexist. The
language feels sexist. Seeing my husband to be within 48 hours, loving it so much just feels
wrong. And at the time, I mean, I'm 19. This is the first time I'm going through this ceremony.
You're not told any details of the ceremony at all beforehand. So I'm really just, you know,
kind of thrown into the fire. And I can articulate what's going on. I just feel gross.
And my parents are like shocked because they thought, you know, I was the golden child. I was
this perfect Mormon girl about to get married so young. I was doing everything right. So that,
so that night, they see that I'm so bothered by the temple. And my dad is like, oh, man,
she's bought, I'll, as the priesthood holder of this family, let me, I'll help her. I'll fix it.
So he Googles. Sorry, is this the first marriage or the, or your current marriage?
No, sorry. Thank you for stopping me right there. So right, I wasn't sure if you've had too much
genome. I've had too much genes. Yeah, when he's flying, timing, new names, it's
no, so keep going. Yeah. Yeah. So that night, so this was then the night after we got out of the
night before we got married or whatever, my dad is Googling how to help your daughter go through
the temple, trying to find resources because I was seemed so, so upset by it. And he starts
learning some of the weird history stuff of Mormonism that has kind of kept under wraps.
I think the first thing he found was so the Book of Mormon is, you know, an ancient doc is told
to be an ancient document. And he knows he found online that there are some in inaccurisms in the
King James version of the Bible that happened later in time than the Book of Mormon is supposed
to be, right, that are in the Book of Mormon. And Joseph Smith had access to the King James
version of the Bible and he's like, huh, that's weird. And so in an attempt to Google, trying to
help me, he finds that. And so anyway, so now he's okay, and he tells my mom and they're stewing,
jump back forward in time post divorce. My testimony is starting to be rocked from the
marriage and from, you know, those things. And I'm kind of mulling over, what is it that was
going on in that relationship? Why was it that the doctrine had, why or why was it that he's
able to like back up these things with the doctrine is something wrong, kind of pushing that down.
Meanwhile, my parents from the day I went through the temple, had kind of been
thinking these same things. They see me, this doing all the right Mormon things, I see me get,
do the marriage to this extremely good Mormon boy, right, who, who's bringing us one of the time,
they see that happening. Meanwhile, they're learning a little bit more about the church
history and learning that there are some inconsistencies that they didn't know. So these
two things are happening at the same time. Over these few months, we're all kind of separately,
like, huh, something seems a little bit off here. And yeah, and so then,
after the divorce, my parents kind of start questioning more and more. And they start,
they tell me that they start questioning. And at some point, eventually, they leave the church.
But they don't, they don't want to tell us anything because
or they don't near and want to say, I mean, anybody else in the family, because I'm
it's extremely taboo to leave, especially for like historical reasons, because that's
meaning that you're being basically deceived by the anti Mormons, you know, things like that.
So I don't know a lot of details of things that they, they know. I just know that they're having
questions. They have removed their sacred underwear. And they, they, I saw them drink coffee too. So,
you know, those sinful, those disgusting heathens. It was so funny. It actually had to sit down with
us with my sister and I, and they said, I want you to know that, that we have, we have partaken of
coffee. It was like this really serious discussion. So good years old, you know, and they, my dad's
sweating, you know, telling us that they, you know, had a cup of coffee this one time, we're
trying to keep it together. Even the, even the word like we partook in coffee. Exactly.
It's so, it's, it's so, it reminds me so much of Amy and I, when we were deconstructing our
faith, it was like, it was like such a weird thing to be like, okay, we, we, we had some alcohol,
we drank some, some alcohol with friends and we got a bit drunk, but that's okay. Like it's okay.
It's okay. Like we're trying to reassure ourselves. Like there's nothing wrong with having some
drinks like, it's funny. Yeah. Yeah. So anyway, around this time, I, something's brewing over
there and I still haven't been back to the, so the thing about the temple is you go that first
time to take out your own endowment and then you keep going. You're supposed to keep going
visiting because I'm participating in the rituals to build your testimony. But I just find it so
triggering. And at the time, I think it's just because of the marriage. And I'm sure, again,
I'm sure that played a part, but I, I attempt to go to back to the temple to fulfill my temple
duty. And I have full panic attacks at the temple because it is just, it's creepy, you know, and,
and I can't think of a softer word. It's just weird, the rituals. And so I, I'm trying to go and,
and I'm kind of having these like really visceral reactions to going. And so I, I'm already meeting
with bishops to talk about my divorce. I might as well talk to them about temple or about truth
doctrine too. And so that's kind of how this transitions is, is, yeah, is getting divorced,
starting to have these questions brewing slowly, meeting with bishops and church leaders slowly.
My parents have their questions. So there's just a lot of unease happening. And this is
what I meet my current husband. We meet, we're in the same church congregation. He's actually a
church leader in the congregation, which is, which is just kind of funny with you back. So
everyone is like, he's actually the, we were students at the time, because we're still young
students at the university. And he is in the highest church leadership position that a
student can have. So he's kind of seen as like the real deal on the ward. So we start, we start
dating. And yeah, he is fully believing, you know, been active his whole life in the church. And
we think our relationship is moving really slowly in Mormonism, because it's like a year
before we get engaged, but I mean, I'm 22, when we get married, like,
I had friends who waited 10 years, and we always make the joke, like, come on, mate,
hurry up and propose or whatever. And he goes, when he finally got engaged, like,
I thought I was rushing it. And we're like, mate,
gosh, so funny. Yeah. Yeah. So anyway, during this time that I'm dating,
my current husband, and again, like I'm young, and it's just as move everything's moving within
the span of like a few years around the divorce and getting married again. But yeah, we start,
I start meeting with church leaders to kind of be talking about some of my questions.
And I make a color coded sheet. And I write down all my questions on it. And I code them
based on severity. And I like bring it to the leader and I'm like, fix this, like, these are
the things that are starting to arise, like fix me. And they kind of try to figure it out,
but they can't really fix it. And I started talking about puts in the bin.
I feel like the church is sexist. And they're like, we don't like that word.
So I'm also starting, I'm in college, I'm an English major. So I'm starting to have my feminist
awakening. I'm starting to have my like, um, uh, like, uh, equality, allyship awakening.
Oh, not equality. That's going to throw you under. Yeah.
I suddenly learned that like racism is real. I'm like, Oh no, you know,
that is not for the church. So I'm just like learning on every level. I feel like my brain
is just exploding with, with information. Um, yeah, so this is kind of happening for a while.
And then, um, but I still think the church is true. Everything's fine. It's fine. It's just,
I'm nuanced. I can see that, you know, pleading me that probably wasn't great.
You know, there, there are some rough edges to the church, but it's okay. Everything's okay.
Um, so then, uh, I get engaged and to be decided to get married in the temple.
And this is complicated too, because at this point, my parents have left the religion,
so they're no longer eligible to enter the temple. Um, so I know that they'll be excluded from the
wedding, which is like heartbreaking. Um, but we're like, well,
they shouldn't have had that coffee.
Exactly. If you're going to choose coffee over salvation, like,
the devil's juice, what are you going to do?
Yeah. So anyway, yes. Sorry, you can cite him and interrupt you.
No, I, I'm just like, your story is very, very profound. Um, so,
yeah, keep going. I'm, I'm dead. Keep going. That was.
So we're engaged. We decided to get married in the temple. We, um, we go to California to
get married on the beach. Well, in the temple and then have a reception on the beach. And we
basically just like kind of a lope with our parents. Um, so it's like a really intimate wedding.
It's really beautiful. Um, one of the temple pictures, by the way, that you pulled up a
couple of minutes ago on the screen was the San Diego temple where we got married. So
you saw it in one of the, one of the things you live through.
Oh, hang on. Let me, let me, let me throw it up because everyone's going to want to see it.
It's gorgeous. It's like, I think it's the prettiest one.
Oh, okay. Look at this. Yeah. Yeah. See. Beautiful.
Wow. Yeah. That's stunning. They like what?
Oh, yes. Purity. Yeah, right. That's stunning. Yeah. Okay. So we got accepted in. You got
accepted into this one. Yes. You were worthy. We didn't take ourselves. We made the cut.
Awesome. Um, yeah. So, so we get, uh, so I, at this point, but right before we get married,
I'm starting to really have a feminist crisis and I'm thinking the church is pretty sexist
and this is the main, and I guess this was like the real, the first real poll.
The first real, uh, Nick in the armor, I guess. Um,
and then, um, the guy that marries us. So in the temple, you just get married by
whichever sealer is, is present rather than having like a friend or something.
He makes it worse. And so, um, this whole time over the past few years, I'm, you know,
kind of like struggling with my faith, but I decided that it's, it's true. It's fine. It's
true. Everything's equal. I, you know, everything that my first has been was saying, that's not
true. I'm just going to, that's, I'm not a help meet. That was the language he used. I'm not a
help meet. I'm, I'm real. I'm sure everything's fine. And then, um, in the ceiling room, the
moment they were about to get married, he turns to, um, my husband, or he turns to both of us.
He said, you are now going to join the Kate Alexander kingdom. Uh, and he's like, you,
you know, will be the help meet to his kingdom. And I just start, I burst into tears because
no, that means it's real. Like we mentioned at the very beginning of this, you asked whether
or not Mormons would like feel comfortable with that language of like a man with the kingdom and
like the women around it. And kind of like what I said was, I think that people would like not
disagree, but would feel uncomfortable. And like that feels kind of flippant. And that's kind of
how I felt in this moment was that I was really, really hoping that someone had missed, that I'd
been misinterpreting the doctrine that like women could be just as equal as men, but they just
aren't, they just aren't, you know, no matter how many times you try to do mental gymnastics,
so they just aren't. And I think that that was the moment right at the wedding, which was really
bad timing, um, that it just really hit like, wow, I have been, you know, circling this stuff for a
while, but it's just sexist as fuck. Like it just is. And so, um, yeah. So then the sealer,
I think he thinks I'm crying because I feel the spirit because he seems happy and excited.
He just is like leaning into it. He's like goes out and he's like, um, I actually, I
can't remember even all the things he was saying. He was like, man, like, he's like, but don't worry,
it's super equal because you have to keep him on track. And you know, all this stuff has been,
is like trying to look at me. I mean, he's thinking I'm going to run out of the room,
and I really was thinking about it at the time I was like, do I leave? Do I know the part?
Like, does he know your past, like your, the experiences you went through? Okay, cool. So
he's probably thinking like, oh no, she's having a bit of traumatic remembering. Yeah, reminders
and stuff. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So he's, he's really worried in the moment, um, especially
because, you know, he, he's, I've talked to him a lot about, you know, my concerns with the
church, my concerns with my past marriage, like, so he can tell them that I'm really panicking.
But I just kind of just, we just get married and that part was horrible. Horrible isn't,
yeah, it was not great. Do you mind if I ask, was it his first marriage or was he,
or did he also, okay, cool. Okay. So it must have been really like for him,
and he was only a few years older than you, is that right? Yeah, a couple years.
Yeah. So that was, that's still a scary moment for anyone, especially such a religious undertone.
Absolutely. It's a huge day and we're told that we'll be married forever until forever,
you know, through the eternities. And we're in this room and like I said, we wanted to have a
really small wedding because I didn't want that reception again. So it's literally, we're in
California. And it's just him and I and his family, that's his mom, his sister, his brother-in-law.
And that's it. And we're all just in there. And I'm just crying. And he's scared because
he's getting married and that's daunting. And he sees that I'm freaking out. And he's like,
and the thing about him too, I feel so bad, he's like, he's trying to understand
what I'm thinking. But he also is really firmly believing at this point, you know,
and he also thinks feminism is like a very dirty word. And like, you know, I don't know about,
you know, too much equality, like that feels a little, you know, he's like working, you know,
he's still, you know, and so I'm already kind of seen as a little edgy, you know, a little
furry here. And this is just making it worse. And but I think, I think we both just are panicked,
you know, we're here in our wedding moment, the sealer's just going at it. I won't, I refuse
looking at him. He is trying to make eye contact with people. It's like, fear in headlights, you
know, this is like, this is crazy, because you're crying, having like, existential crisis about
like feminism and the church and truth and reality. Here's wondering, is she going to leave? This is
also the bell and run away. Like, what is she having trauma is, is this like the, this is the
biggest memory of my life. And then, and here's, so he's freaking out. And then the person marrying
you is like, Oh, the Lord is working through this. And that's, and his family's in there thinking
they're all smiling and happy. I'm like, this is the best day. And like, everything is like
imploding. It's only funny because of how messed up it is. Like, it really is like, it's such a
fucked situation. Oh, geez. Yeah. Yeah. So that was just, that was messed. But we get married
somehow sporadically, we get married. And then, and then we do have a beautiful hour or two,
where we're just on the beach where, you know, we have like, we drink sparkling cider,
non alcoholic, of course, because, you know, of course, can you imagine? And then, yeah, we have,
we share sugar cookies, we go on a honeymoon, it's fantastic. And it is like really safe and
validating for me to be like, Oh, like, this is what a good relationship is. Oh, but also, I guess
last thing I guess I'll say on the marriage to us. So we do the brief reception on the beach is
beautiful. And then, you know, we have the send off into the sunset we go, we drive off to our
honeymoon, five minutes after we drive away. I'm like, so you know, everything the sealer said,
you didn't believe any of that, right? Like, we're kind of, and so yeah. And, and he's like,
so that is basically when like, we both kind of know something really big is going to happen
with our religion. And we're, you know, t minus two hours post marriage. So we'll just kind of
hang on and post post we kind of have the, the self respect to not talk about it on our honeymoon,
but we kind of both know that we're gonna, we're gonna have some bit of patience when we get home.
Yeah. And it is sweet because we also the hotel knew we were on a honeymoon. So they gifted us
a bottle of champagne, which we didn't drink, right? Because, um, but we, but we did keep it.
And then we ended up popping it on our one year anniversary. So that's a little bit of
foreshadowing, I guess. But oh, that's, that's, that's awesome. So did you guys like, so you
jump straight into marriage and you've seen this like, um, so you guys like deconstructing your
faith almost immediately? Yep. Yeah. So are you, so this may be too personal, but are you kind of
seen as like the witch to his family? Like are you just seeing as like the black sheep who's come
along and just like, I hate that. I'm so sorry you're going through that. Sometimes I feel like that.
That has definitely added a little bit of, um, you know, tension, especially coming right out of
the gate was married, horse. Um, we started deconstructing our faith really quickly. So
yeah, that, that led to some interesting conversations. But yeah, I mean, again,
I feel like I get, I was just, we'd been thinking about our faith for, for a couple of years at
that point. And it just really was that sealer that it just was kind of like the straw that broke
the camel's back. And so, so I guess I won't say we left, but at that point, that's when
massive research started happening. We're constantly talk, at least for me, my husband is
still kind of like deer in the headlights, you know, like what's happening. But I'm reading
everything, get my hands on it. I'm trying to understand, okay, if this church is true, what,
and that's something I guess that Mormons will say a lot to as well as is using language like
true. It's very black and white. It's not just the church is good. It's not just that Jesus is
true or a real or whatever. It's like this church, this very, very specific element of the church is
the only truth and 100% true. Like there's very little room for nuance within the doctrine,
but anyway, so researching like crazy, listening to podcasts, reading books, reading articles and
essays, and there's a lot of things to try and kind of like deconstruct. But it is like, I feel
like it's like a sweater, you know, you start pulling on a thread, and then you're going and
then now you just have a lot of yarn in your hands. The thing that I want to get through to a lot of
people too is, it's not like, like for me at least, I was never, you know, you can't go back,
like it's like, you can't like peek under the, peek under the hood and then just pretend you
didn't see what you saw. So you try to like, you're like, okay, I want to know what the truth is.
I'm not doubting my faith. I'm just looking into it. And then you look, and then you notice
something, you either than have to pretend you didn't see it and lie to yourself, be dishonest,
intellectually dishonest, or you have to keep researching it and find a way to marry the problems.
But for me, it just kept getting worse. The crack kept getting bigger. Eventually,
I was standing at the bottom of a canyon going, how did I not see this huge hole before? And
it's really, yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. And I think like that's something that the people tend to
struggle with, with like, distressing people who leave the church, you know, because it's like,
well, why did you, like, you shouldn't have looked into the information, you know, but it really
was originally, especially for a long time, in an attempt to better understand what I believed
was so true, trying to, trying to like, piece together this faith that I loved so much. And,
you know, people will say like, you can't believe in Santa Claus once you learn that Santa Claus
isn't real. And not to like equate mass religion to Santa Claus, but like, you once you, you can't
and you can't try to believe something. You know, belief isn't really a choice.
Praying is a choice. Scripture study is a choice, but belief isn't a choice. You know, it's just
a lot of religious people will argue tooth and nail, like they will argue against that point.
And I always just say like, but it's like, can you, can you believe that gravity doesn't exist
so much so that you'd walk out of a building? And like, I think that a lot of them will actually
say to me, yeah, yeah, I can, I can do that. I could do that. But I'm like, that isn't belief.
That's just ignoring your, your, your, yeah, absolutely. That's just ignoring what you really
feel. Like there's a form of like belief where it's like, okay, I saw that, but I choose to believe
this. Sure. But that's just a form of dishonesty, in my opinion. Yeah. Yeah. There's a, there's a
quote from them, a prominent church leader from, I don't know, the seventies or eighties. His name
is J. Rubin Clark. But anyway, he said this thing that I think a lot of people who've like
deconstructed Mormonism really like where it said, the truth needs to be examined and
the truth deserves to be examined. And gosh, I'm like slaughtering it. But basically the point
is the truth should be examined or anything should be examined. And if it's true, it will stand
and if it's not true, then it should fall apart. Because he's a church leader, you know, and
the religion fell apart. But, you know, he must have believed it. And I think that like,
especially with something that is such a big part of people's lives, I think it's so important,
especially when it's causing, I guess it's not hurting you and it's fine. I can see why people
don't. But especially in the case where it was, you know, leading to a lot of, you know, anxiety,
originally mental health was, it was a player in that and it was a player in abuse. Like,
it wasn't that I went out trying to lose my testimony. And I think that's something that
I really wish the people who, you know, were around me that, that believe or just believe
generally that it's not an attempt to go out and like destroy my entire identity, you know, it's
it just kind of came. And I'm not sure about you, but for me, losing my faith was an extremely
painful and heartbreaking and horrible experience, but also married with, oh, it's
also inspirational and exciting. And like there's all this, I always liken it to like
arriving on an alien planet where you kind of know the rules. You're kind of welcomed, but you
also like, like for me, I was like, I could look at dinosaur fossils because I used to believe that
Adam and Eve were real and stuff. So I could look at, look, I'm like, oh, these are real. These
went place here by Satan. These are like the earth is old. And like, we came from apes and stuff
like that. So it was, it was like, and I was like, whoa, this is really exciting. And it was like,
yeah, it was cool. Yeah, I think, I mean, it really is a process of deep, deep grief and deep,
deep rebirth and exciting. And I think like I'm extremely, extremely lucky within at least
Mormonism that like my husband went through that deconstruction with me, and that he was willing to
be like, you know what, maybe something's wrong. And, you know, we started kind of like going through
that together. And so while that was devastating, like we, I mean, so many people around us were
so active, our entire identities were wrapped up in the religion. You know, he thought he was
going to be a kingdom holder in heaven. Like, hello, he thought he had God power. Like, that's
a huge loss. He's like, I'm just a guy now. You know, that's, yeah, that's true. You've essentially
taken away like Superman's cape or whatever. Exactly. Exactly. So for me, I'm like, oh,
yeah, I don't have to be helped me anymore for him. He's like, oh, I guess like,
Oh, wow. Maybe we can do another one of these long ones that we can go into a deep dive. But I
just want to know the first time you guys pop that bottle of wine or the first time you had alcohol
for the first time. And like, what was that like? Do you have any like funny alcohol stories?
Yeah. Oh, yeah. We have funny alcohol stories, coffee stories. We were just kind of noobs for a
bit. It's so adorable. It's so adorable. You guys experiencing these things together for like the
first time. Yeah. So I'll tell you both really fast, actually. So I'll do them in chronological
order. So coffee was the first thing we tried together. And we tried that on my birthday,
because it was going to be a birthday treat to Sim a little bit. And
this is so, this is so bizarre to me. I'm sorry, this is just so weird, but it's so cool. Like
I can understand it. I can understand it with like, comparable things in my life where but like,
it's coffees or it's like, I don't, I don't, I don't know, keep going, keep going.
So we're so we go to a restaurant right and for my birthday dinner. And is this the first
time you've ever tasted coffee? Okay. Actually, I think I had had a sip,
like a rebellious sip like a year before, maybe one sip. So anyway, yeah, yeah. But I mean,
as a kid, like, I would look on labels of ice cream to be like, is there coffee extract in
this? Because if there is, I can't have it, you know, but um, so it's my birthday. He's like,
hey, do you want to like, do something crazy? Like, do we go to a Starbucks? And so we go,
we sneak in. And we're so nervous, you know, we're like, oh my gosh, like we're trying coffee. Like,
and I was thinking we're both wearing our Mormon underwear under our clothes. Like,
will people know that we're non coffee jukers? Like, like, how do we not be weird? Like,
we're whispering like, what are these things? I'm like, what is a matiado?
And this sounds like when like, you know, a couple like, let's go to a sex shop and buy a
little fun toy. That's what it's like. We're like, looking both ways. Like, we literally did it.
You parked down the street, like walk. We got it in a different town that we live in.
Like, we, it was a, we didn't want anyone to recognize us. The first time we bought a coffee
maker, it was like, we're like looking down the aisles to make sure we don't see anybody. We know
like, it is a really scandalous thing. So we go into the Starbucks, Kade goes up and he's like,
do you guys have a cappuccino machine? And the barista is like,
you mean an espresso machine? And Kade's like, can you make a cappuccino with it?
And then the barista is like, yeah. And so anyway, we order a, we order a white chocolate caramel
macchiato to share. And we both think it's disgusting. And, but, but we both drink it.
And we just feel like we know, we know that something has changed now. You know,
neither of us believe anymore, but really, but something has changed because we've had this
coffee. So anyway, that was our first time trying coffee. We were, we didn't, we drink like two sips.
We thought it was disgusting and felt super rebellious for a really long time. And I,
I think I probably after actually, I did, I definitely did, but I try anyway.
You tried to, you did what after, sorry? Oh, I repented. So I'm not sure what that is.
Maybe that's, oh yeah. No, no, that, that makes, that makes sense. I remember, I remember speeding
in a car once and repenting because I spent in a car and I was like, I shouldn't have done that, God.
Yeah. But then later, so the first alcohol we had was for our anniversary. It was
our one year anniversary. We, we'd saved that bottle of champagne from, from our honeymoon.
And so we decided to drink it on our anniversary. So we pop disgusting as well. Disgusting.
I mean, we, we should have started with like a cocktail or something, but instead we started
with this like crappy champagne. Not even that. You want like vodka cruises or like.
Wow. Exactly. What, what are you supposed to drink when I was 15? Like little like
teeny boppa drinks. Exactly. So we think we were so just, we were just excited, you know,
rebellious. And when we saved the cork, we have the cork like somewhere. But we, this is so funny.
So we try to take, we each take a drink and my husband goes halfway through the drink,
which we're just tastes like gasoline. You know, we're just shocked.
Me, other of us have ever had alcohol at all before. We never had a rebellious state. We've
never had a sub kid midway through. Cause I think I figured out how you're supposed to drink it.
If you, what was it? If you plug your nose while you drink it, you can't smell it and you
can't even taste it. And that must be what everyone does. Like, and so we're both in there
plugging your nose is drinking like these tiny bits. Like anyway, it was, it was very exciting.
I'd love to one day just go through like, we could do a whole session where I'll just ask
you about like, okay, what was the first time you did this? And like, you just go, oh, you're
almost Amish. Oh, well, but it's, it's funny though, cause I can relate to some of it. Like
at some of it, it was, um, I remember, uh, yeah, I won't go into it, but I remember like, there's
some things that I remember like really being really like, that was normal for like regular
like society that I thought was like, just totally like, it caused me so much anxiety.
And I was like, this is like mental and stuff. So, um, and felt so wrong doing it, but so I can
kind of relate. Um, I do want to quickly touch on, um, personal truth versus institutional
truth. Could you explain what you mean by that? Absolutely. So this is something I've been thinking
about a lot. Um, and basically like, especially within, within the Mormon church, you're taught
that everyone has personal revelation, um, meaning like you all have your own individual
relationship with God, right? And he'll tell you something, but then there's also this like
leadership revelation for the church. And so that was something that I think a lot of members
actually kind of struggle with like understanding the difference, especially with like social issues
where say personally, you feel like, um, equality is good, but the church as a whole says that's
that, you know, how do you reconcile this personal belief of like, I personally feel like
spiritually this is true, but this institutional thing that I'm told is 100% true contradicts.
And so that's kind of where that started. And I think that was really, um, a big part of that,
like within the marriage, you know, where I'm, I'm praying every day saying God is something wrong.
And I believed and that God was telling me, you know, no, this, this is not okay. This is, um,
this is, um, the mess of violence and this is dangerous. But then I'm talking to my husband
who has the authority in the marriage, like he has the authority. He's giving blessings on my head
with the oil and is telling me that everything is okay. So how do I kind of like reconcile
those types of things? Um, and I do kind of think about a broader as well, you know, with like,
you know, people versus institutions as a whole, you know, how, you know, and I think about that
currently in my own, you know, as America is kind of having all sorts of problems, you know, how is
it that you kind of reckon with your own beliefs and your own truth and also be part of this larger
whole. Um, but that is really kind of where that started is especially with these different ideas
of truth. Um, and even more than that, I guess when I was a member of the church, especially
power dynamics, sorry, I don't mean to be so long-winded. Um, but as long-winded as you like,
I just don't want to take up like, I just don't want you to feel like we're taking up too much
time, but I'll go as long as you want. I'm locked in this room, like I said, but for the audience,
I unfortunately got the C word virus and my wife has been delivering, um, meals to the floor
and I slide them into my room and I eat it at my desk. I've been living in this room for like
four or five days now. So I've got all the time in the world. Go for it. It's nice to be drunk.
Yeah, right. Like this is great. Um, but yeah, like kind of where these power dynamics are such a
factor, especially within, within Mormon is somewhere like you're literally told that these
people have so much power. These, these men are in these huge positions of authority and I'm
this lowly teenage woman. Um, and so it's like, how is it that I can reconcile this thing that
happened? You know, this feels wrong. So how can I reconcile when this overarching religion is saying,
this is true. This is 100% true. And I feel like this anyway. And I guess, you know, obviously
truth is so subjective and, and I think that something that was a really kind of eye opening
for me as well, because I've kind of always been taught the truth is black and white.
Um, but kind of being able to, you know, seeing these differences between these,
these individual truths and my experiences and even, you know, telling this story, like
my ex-husband would, I'm sure would tell the story very differently than me, my, my current
friends, you know, would talk about Mormonism very differently and kind of like reconciling
that people have like these different truths, but especially within positions of power, I think
is, um, anyway, I just think that's really interesting and, and, um, was big for me to kind
of process my relationship to myself and institutions.
It's, yeah, it's, I actually had a very similar experience. So I remember, I remember coming to
church once and asking, it was, well, I was in the back room of staff halls. It was in a church
meeting. It was just like, I was doing churchy stuff. And I asked about, I asked someone about,
like I'd been through ministry college. So I knew the takes and stuff, but I asked someone about
women being quiet in church, the verses in one Timothy. And I remember, because I was reading
through the New Testament and I asked them like, okay, so, so do women need to be quiet in church?
Do can women teach? And they said, well, that was for a time. That was for, you know, a time
and a place. And, and I was like, and I was thinking, because I had a friend at the time,
he was the first, first guest on the deep drinks podcast. He was closeted for 45 years. He went
through, I met him in ministry college. He came out of the closet only a few years ago. He's got
a long-term partner now. They're really happy. Um, but it's just, um, you know, I remember thinking
like, well, if this was for a time, why can't homosexuality be for a time or something, right?
Or maybe the type of homosexuality that they're talking about is like, you know,
to men giving into their loss because they can't. This is what I want to be talking about, like,
long-term, monogamous relationships, you know? And, um, I remember someone told me, no, it was for a
time. Um, the women should be subservient to men things. Um, but then I read one Timothy in my,
and I couldn't reconcile this. I'll just read that little section for, for the audience. Um,
so this is, I'll read from one Timothy to, sorry, the woman reading from the Bible. This is
might be a bit boring. Um, but, um, so this is from one Timothy to, I believe Peter is writing
this. Uh, I'm not Peter. Sorry, Paul is writing this. And he says, therefore I want men everywhere
to pray, lift, uh, hang on, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. One Peter, um, one Peter, uh, sorry,
what, my gosh, the alcohol is very effective. One Timothy two versus 11. A woman should learn
in quietness and full submission. Okay. So that's like one part. I do not permit a woman to teach
or assume authority over a man. She must be quiet. Okay. So what the church will hear this and I'll
say, well, at the time, you know, um, women were, and men were separated in the, in the small churches
and she wasn't very intelligent because they didn't have much education. So she would lean
across the aisle and she would ask her husband. And so he's really just saying, Hey, I don't want
you to lean across the aisle. Like that's all it is. It's not that women shouldn't have authority.
It's just that in this specific circumstances, it's not the case, but that's not what it says.
Cause the next verse in verse 13, it says, gives a reason. It says, for Adam was formed first,
then Eve. Okay. So it says this, um, and Adam was not, uh, and Adam was not the one deceived.
It was the woman who was deceived and became a sinner, but women. So it's like, okay. So it's
giving that reason and that reason is still valid today, but women will be saved through childbearing
if, if, if, so they'll be saved if they give children and if they continue in faith, love,
and a holiness with propriety. This is, this is black and white. If you, if you can interpret
the scripture to say the exact opposite of what it actually, oh yeah. Um, Joyce, Maya, like all
it went, you know, women preachers, women pastors, women can do whatever. Like,
if you can interpret the Bible to say the exact opposite of what it actually says in plain reading,
then why not? Why can't we not say like, oh, you know, Jesus didn't die on the cross. He actually
never went on the cross. It says he went on the cross, but he didn't. He did the opposite of that.
Why can't we not say that about everything? Exactly. Exactly. Yep.
It's like, it's an inconvenient truth. And I remember when I first read this, I was like,
well, I don't agree with that. I think women should be like, I think, like, I was like,
I've got to reconcile this. And I even said it out loud, I said, I've got to reconcile this,
because obviously I disagree with this part of the Bible and I need to correct myself or
work out what's going on here. And they're like, yeah, maybe go talk to someone, maybe go talk about
it. And yeah. And I'm sure some apologist will be commenting down below, well, actually,
and I'm sure there's a way to, you know, get around it all as there is with everything. But
to me, it just seems that a plain, like a simple and well-reasoned reading of that,
it seems like women are seen as lesser than men. Yeah. Which I'm not a fan of, personally. I think
women should be equal. Right? Wild, wild. Sorry to interject there with a personal story. But
yeah, it's, it's just, I do remember it being, I remember it being so like, I remember having
that conflict of like, this is what I believe, this is what I'm in tort. Yeah. Yeah. No, I think
that's like, I think that's a really important part, you know, especially because like, there are
so many inconsistencies within scripture. And that's just what makes this so complicated.
You know, is when we're claiming full truth and 100% truth and accuracy and everything like,
it, and there's so many different nuances of people, like I think that that claim is just falls
apart under any element of scrutiny at all. Unless just tons of mental gymnastics, which
even then, you know, it comes to fall apart. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. It's also the thing too,
where like, there's a, there's a time and there's a, there's a place for apologetics and stuff,
like working on how to reconcile this stuff. But no one comes to the faith for, for these reasons.
Like no one goes like, do you know what? I actually saw the dating of Mark to be a bit
early than like, no one, they have, they are the broad open that they have a spiritual experience.
Just be honest about where your belief comes from. Anyway, I thought it'd be great to quickly just
move over to the questions and answers. You've actually answered a lot of them already. So we
don't have a huge amount. So first one, what advice would you give to someone who is in an abusive
relationship? Yeah, gosh, I mean, I think the biggest thing is again, just like identifying
with yourself and being able to like say and own what is happening. I think that was the biggest
thing for me was being able to, you know, be able to say, you know, yeah, this is unhealthy. This
is abusive. And I don't deserve to have this happening. And I think it's really easy to,
to like be looking at other stories and trying to be like finding validation from outside things.
And that's, you know, why I spent so much time like Googling, like definitions of things.
But it is really helpful, I think, to just be able to reconcile that within yourself first,
and be someone that you trust, and then that will kind of help you be able to take the next steps.
And also, especially like, wouldn't you get out? It's, I mean, I was so embarrassing and scary,
and I thought everything was going to fall apart. And I was, I hadn't been in the relationship very
long, which I think has, it would be harder in a longer period of time, but it was also a different
type of, you know, pain to embarrassing in a whole different way. But just so drastically better.
I'm excited about it. Yeah, well, look, look where you ended up with a lovely like family,
you can drink coffee now, and you even like it. I love coffee now.
What advice would you give to yourself when you first started questioning your faith? If
you could give yourself advice now, what would you, what would it be? Yeah, I mean, I think the
biggest thing would be take a deep breath. It's going to be fine. You know, I think it was really,
I was so worried about, again, I think with both in the marriage and within questioning the faith,
it was this, and this is something that I remember my therapist talking about a lot was
the feeling of guilt, feeling of fear. In those moments, you think they're going to last forever.
And there's some scientific reason why that is like you can't process time. Don't quote me on that,
literally, other than on this podcast, I guess, but yeah, quoting Alyssa. But yeah, I think like
you can't process time in those moments. And so I think within both of those scenarios, recognizing
this is a temporary feeling. And it's really, really scary. And I don't know how it's going
to look outside of it. But we'll figure it out. And like, trust my own life experience up to that
point, and trusting like myself and my, my values and knowing that like, I will come to a decision
that feels safe and good for me. I remember just a touch on what you said there. My psychologist
mentioned to me once that, that thoughts are almost like a, almost like, like a swarm of like
birds that kind of like go in each direction, just flying around together. You can't really
control it. Like you just, you kind of just see it and it happens. And it's the same with like
emotions, grief, thought, feelings. These things are things that come in, stay for a little while
and leave, you can't control it. If you do control it, what you can control it in some aspects,
like you can choke back tears or you can, but, but just, just realizing that they're not really
your own, these thoughts aren't really your own, they come and they pass. And it actually helps
you deal with the process a lot, a lot easier, I think. It's like, it's okay to be sad. It's okay
to be upset. It's okay to be frustrated. It's okay. Like, but just realize that, yeah, that these are
things that you can't really necessarily control in that moment. Like they just let the feelings come
when deconstructing. But yeah, I would say be kind to yourself.
Do, do that. These are all a kind of different order. So they're going to like go deep, funny,
deep, funny, like random. So do, do a lot of those saints believe, believe that you'll get
your own planet after death? Yes, I love this question. Okay, so yes, yes. People, there has
been some controversy with this lately, because people haven't been talking about that, and they
don't like that phrasing. You got your own kingdom, which is in the scriptures, worlds without end.
So, yes. Okay, kind of world, not your own planet. I think they're basically the same thing.
Yeah, okay. So, okay, so we had like a, we definitely had a concept of the globe back when,
like he wasn't a flat earth or anything was he, I'm talking a lot of flat earth is at the moment
is driving me nuts, but they didn't, they didn't view like, just Smith didn't view the world as
like a flat. Okay, cool. He knew of like the globe. Yeah, basically, yeah, it's like,
part of the doctrine too is like, God was once a, was once like a human of another planet,
and now he's a god. So that is what like the men will be one day, gods and goddess.
So, yeah, this is what I mean. It's fun. It's a fun religion.
It's definitely cool. So this one, I have to, I have a preamble for this question. I didn't write
this. This is what someone wrote in my discord. They just wrote it just flippantly. They weren't
thinking too much about it. So don't, I hope I'm not offending anyone. But we use, we used to live
very close to a big temple headquarters in Sydney. When I was growing up, everyone just seemed so
dot, dot, dot boring, placid. They were happy, polite and kind, but seemed like surface level
happy. My mom chased them away with a broom once when they, and they never came back to our house
since. Crazy ethnic ladies screaming, wearing washing up gloves, some floral apron and fluffy
slippers. I think she may have chucked the slippers at them too. Let's just say that there is a
database. And then the question is, is there a database of places not to knock on again?
Like, is there a database of like, never, never visit this place ever again?
Yeah. Yeah, there it is.
Okay, cool. Like, okay, maybe don't, we don't know here. They seem sketchy.
Okay, that's interesting. Is it like a worldwide database or is it just in the local?
No, it's local. It's just for the missionaries. So it's basically like, yeah, if you're on a mission,
hey, by the way, this person, this person might not be second.
Look, I'm seeing a brilliant app idea. If anyone wants to hit me up in the discord server, we can
talk about developing. Yeah. So this is a really great question. Is there a way to engage with
people of the Latter-day Saints faith that is not hostile, but probing?
Yeah, you know, I think, especially if missionaries, missionaries are the easiest way to do that.
They'll pop right into your door. Yeah. And honestly, most LDS people will be really,
really excited to talk with you about their faith. And I think just like being,
we're taught at church all the time, like every member of missionary. And I think,
I don't think really any LDS person would be offended by probing at all. They would be excited.
As long as the, you know, person's nice and isn't trying to be, you know, but asking those questions,
like, do you believe in other people having a planet or like, what was the deal with polygamy?
Like those types of questions are the types of questions that Mormons prepare for.
Like, you know, that's why we're ready for it, you know, because we know that those are the
questions that people have. So I wouldn't be afraid to talk to active members about the church.
Okay, cool. I think too is like, it is going to be less
confrontational coming from someone who's never been Mormon versus coming from someone like me,
who has been disaffected from the church, basically. Yeah.
They would be a lot more offended by my questions than from someone who's just asking.
Yeah, sure. I do like, I do like what the creators of South Park, Trey Parker, Matt Stein say. They
say Mormons were the perfect example, like a perfect people to create a musical about,
because they just look like they're about to burst into song at any moment, because they're
always so happy. And they sing so much, honestly, good at these songs all the time.
That's so cool. Could you walk into like a Mormon church now, or is it like you've been,
okay, cool. So anyone can go. All right, that makes sense.
Can I go into a Mormon temple, but I could go into a Mormon church.
So, okay, cool. Visitors, welcome.
Ah, awesome. We touched this before a little bit, but do you have the first feeling,
such memory of thinking, hmm, that's not quite right. What was the first one?
Yeah, I think the first one was in my first marriage. I mean, it took that long before I
really had any sort of question. And him, you know, using doctrine and being like,
that feels a little off.
Yeah. So how much of LDS culture is cultural in Utah? Sorry. How much does the LDS culture
permeate through Utah for non moments?
A lot, a lot, a lot. There is very little separation of like church and state or culture.
For example, I did a TikTok on this and people got really riled up comparing
this like the cultures between Utah and Montana. So, you know, everything is closed in Utah on
Sundays, you know, stores and things like that. You go trick or treating on Halloween on Saturday
of Halloween falls on a Sunday, you know, so there's things like that. LDS jargon is constantly
used. So if you're non Mormon, like you basically know all the jargon, you've, I'm sure you've
gone to church a handful of times. And it is changing. Like if someone wants to go live in
Utah, I'm sure they would have a little bit of a culture shock, but in Salt Lake, you know,
I think it's 50% Mormon now rather than like 80. So we're like, you know, changing.
But yeah, no, it definitely plays a big factor in like day-to-day stuff.
It's funny that you didn't mention trick or treating there because in my church, my,
and the Christian culture around Australia, it is, it is seen as a very demonic.
Yeah, it's like, like someone I live with who's renting a room with us. He used to live with
someone who used to bring their fridge out, move it down the hallway and block the front door
because he didn't want the demonic spirits getting through. Interesting. He was a little bit,
he was a little bit of a crackpot, but the average, the average like Christian might do
something like shut all the doors, turn off the lights and not open the door to any trick or
treaters. My wife was taught that it was always evil. Like, and that it was like opening the
door to the devil. And so that's actually one of the things that we're both, because I like
Halloween. I grew up watching the labyrinth. I grew up watching the creepy films. I kind of like it.
But I'm more like just seeing little kids like dress up and be superheroes and stuff. So
I remember we actually just recently, like we're, we've not been Christian for many years, we went
to the store to buy like little rats and skulls and stuff. And some things were still too confrontational
for Amy to want to bring. She was like, this is, this is too evil looking, but this is fine.
This is fine. And we sat at the front door, like I literally had a little seat there. I sat there
with my, we moved to a new neighborhood. So it's very family oriented. And we sat there and it
was raining, but they still came to the door. And I'm like, oh, little Elsa, like here you go,
here's some chocolate and stuff. And I've gotten, I've gotten right into it, but it was a big taboo
for us. Like super interesting. So a Mormon's okay with Halloween? Yeah, we love it.
No way. Oh, coffee is off the table, but Halloween.
That's so crazy. As long as it's Saturday, as long as it's not on the Lord's Day, like go for it.
Wow. Wow. Okay. That's, that's incredible.
So hang on, I got to just, do you think you believed in the character of God that Mormonism
produced based on their theological beliefs about God? No, no, I do not believe in the Mormon God
anymore. So do you believe in a God at all? I don't, I don't think so. I'm much more open.
I like, I guess you could probably tell about my bodily language that I like pretty staunchly
disbelieve in the Mormon God. And if there is a different type of deity or energy or God or
anything like that, I'm not opposed to it. I mean, I think that sounds nice. But I'm not,
not so much that I'm like changing my behavior around worrying about, you know,
like a literal heaven or a literal judgment from a male anthropologist. You know what I'm trying,
a male. I think so. I think we're on the same level of gym. I'm getting what you're saying, I think.
But yeah, so like, if, if there is a higher power after like bonus, you know, awesome,
but I don't necessarily think that that's something that I need to like be preparing for or be scared
of or be changing my behavior for now. Are you, are you, so would you just say you're not convinced
currently of any like religion or God, but you're open to the idea to, yeah, okay, that makes sense.
That's kind of where I'm at as well. Yeah. Yeah. So I guess I'll just take it off, Glee.
Is it? Yeah. This is, and this is, this is a, this isn't on the list, but this is a very
personal question. Do you find it hard to say, or to even kind of conceptualize the idea of
like saying, I'm an atheist or I don't believe in God? Is that like a hard thing to
say or to confront? Or is it, are you, are you like approaching it like,
it feels blasphemous still, but you don't really know why. It's like, you want to have like a soft,
like I don't hate God. I don't like hate the idea of a God, but I just don't,
not convinced of one. Like where, where do you kind of sit with, with all that?
Well, the biggest thing I guess is I, I was especially careful with using like the labels
and things like that. Almost purely for like other people's benefit. And maybe that's like,
Mormon family or like a big trope of people that leave the churches that are angry.
They're anti-mormon. They just want to tear it down. And so I try to be cautious with like
using words like atheist or disbelieving just to like not prove that point. My beliefs, I mean,
probably are, you know, similar to that. But I think that I do kind of have like a mental
hang up of being like, I don't want to come across like I'm swinging along the pendulum
so quickly. I know, I know what you mean. And some, I'm not, I know what you mean. I think it's
say there's all, there's always so many hang ups when like, cause you've got, you don't want to like
prove them right or something when it's like, or, and there's all these like, but it's like,
but at the same time, because if that, if someone was to know what's in your brain,
they would know, you know, how you are and stuff. And they wouldn't, they would see that you're not
just like going, you know, like an atheist, like slaughtering goats in your backyard and eating
babies, like you're just a regular person. But, but I, I, yeah, so I'm getting tongue-tied. But
the idea, yeah, I know, I know what that feeling is like to just feel like I sometimes hesitate to
call people, people tell people I'm an atheist. I always consider myself an agnostic atheist,
but people have this high idea that atheists are like, there is no God. I'm like, no, I've just
don't believe. I'm just not convinced of the existence of God. Yeah, I'm open to believe.
Like if you gave me a sufficient reason to believe, I'll believe, but I can't lie to you. So, yeah.
Interesting. I got two more questions, but interesting. It was the, it was the,
it was the morality that was taught to me in church that had me reject it. So I was brought up to
believe that always telling the truth was the right thing to do, to pursue righteousness. And I
believe that truth was righteousness. So for me, when I started investigating the truth about like
evolution and creation or why I believe what I believe, all of a sudden my morality pushed back
against staying a Christian. It was really, really weird. Yeah, no, I have a similar experience where
it's like, you're, I'm being taught. And I think that's kind of why I'm, I'm, you know, propelled to
right and propelled to talk about this stuff because my whole life it's like every member of
missionary share what you believe even if you stand alone. And so now I feel like I share what I
believe in when I stand alone in my Mormon Utah community. You know, and I think it's like that
same thing. It's like you've been taught this certain thing and now it's kind of working in
the opposite direction, but it is the same like Mormon creation values that you grew up with
it and kind of like hurting them. Yeah, it's, yeah, it's, it's life is was one thing I have learned
through all of this is, is just trying to enjoy the ride. Like because like who says that you're
not going to be like a bald headed monk living in India in like 10 years and you're going to think
back to just enjoy it, enjoy it like nothing's like just, just enjoy life, like go out for coffee
or don't whatever, like, you know, give your husband a hug, like life's not that
hardcore all the time, you know. What if anything would change your mind, like reconvince you of
Mormonism? Ooh, okay, so I would in order to believe that Mormonism is true, I think it would
have to be like, ooh, I think I would honestly have to have what I was told happens in the temple,
which is God literally comes down and I would need a vision like Joseph Smith, I would need
God to be like, okay, I'm back, talk to you, here's a vision. So that would help me believe
that it was true. But even then, part of my like deconstruction was, I don't believe the church is
true. And further, I don't believe the church is good. I think the church is causing, I mean,
there are good elements, absolutely. But, but I think it's negative as far as like,
social issues causing harm. And so I think in order for me to see it as good, there would have to be
a public apology for racist bands, there would have to be full inclusion of LGBT folk and women,
and just lots of reform that way. So are you talking about like the gays being allowed in the
church? No way. You're living in a fantasy world. That's ridiculous. Can you imagine an equal society?
Just so just in case anyone clips that when I say the gays, that's ironic. Obviously, I
am an ally to I love I love my my friends in the LGBT community. Well, Alyssa, it's been amazing to
converse with you. It's been a really good time. I've learned so much about Mormonism. I feel like
I could keep talking to you for ages. I will link all of your stuff down below. You've got a TikTok
where you explore these kind of concepts. You're obviously an amazing writer. I've got the essays
on your website. And of course, when your book is released, I'll put the link in the description
for your book. And maybe we'll even do this again when your book comes out. But thank you so much
for coming on the Deep Drinks podcast. And yeah, I'll talk to you another time. Yeah, thank you,
David. It was really great chatting with you and I had a really good time.
