Kharkiv is increasingly resembling the 21st century Stalingrad, only this time it is Russia
laying siege to a city which is defiantly resisting. Somehow, amid all this, its residents
are surviving. The day after a missile slammed into Kharkiv's town hall, we asked a resident
of this city, Anastasia Paryskevava, to document what's happening to her home.
My city, Kharkiv, is under constant attack, bombings, rocket fire, artillery fire, all day non-stop.
Just today, four Russian warplanes flew near my house.
Look what they've done.
I celebrated my birthday one time in this bar.
Look at this. It was such a cool place. This is 15 minutes walk from my house. We heard a very loud
explosion, the doors shook and windows too. And this was it. Apocalypse now. And among the ruins
we have found a little dog. Look at him. My sister says he's really trembling, really hard.
The siege of Kharkiv was documented for us in March in this video diary.
Last night was probably the most terrifying night of my life. Kharkiv was terribly bombarded.
This is our hiding place. It's a vestibule area between two walls with no windows.
This is the place where Kharkiv is hiding.
This is the place where Kharkiv is hiding.
Thank you, everyone, for coming to a special episode of Deep Drinks Podcast.
My name is Dave, and for those who don't know, this is a podcast where we have deep conversations over deep drinks.
The guest chooses the drink of choice, and we use that to facilitate the conversation.
For those who don't know as well, we're trying really hard to get to 1,000 subscribers, so if you like content like this,
subscribe, and we're going to be doing a charity stream, much like this one, but for six hours long when we get to 1,000 subscribers.
Before we start, I do want to mention a few things on the wall, just so everyone has the correct context before going into this.
So some notes on the wall. It has been seven months since Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
In that time, 6,114 civilians have been killed, 390 of which were children.
On the 15th of September 2022, several mass graves including one site containing at least 440 bodies were found in the woods near the Ukrainian city of Izum.
After it was liberated by Ukrainian forces, the 414 bodies included 215 civilian men, 194 civilian women, 5 children, and 22 servicemen.
Most of the dead showed signs of violent death and 30 presented traces of torture and execution, including ropes around their necks,
bound hands, broken limbs, and a general amputation.
The parliaments of Estonia, Latvia, Canada, Poland, Lithuania, and the Czech Republic, along with Ukraine,
recognized Russia's war crimes as a genocide against the Ukrainian people.
So with those few things said, I'd like to introduce our very brave guest Anastasia Paryskivova,
who is the Ukrainian citizen volunteering on the front lines of the Russian invasion.
Her father was tragically killed by the Russian missile while standing on the balcony of his Harkiv home.
Anna will share her life in Ukraine, living under siege, and what she is doing to help.
Thank you so much for coming on, Anna.
Hello.
Hello.
So she has some technical difficulties, but everything worked out in the end and we got sorted.
We probably started, restarted the computer and phones about four times, but we got it working.
Five.
Anna got it worked five times. Anna got it working.
Yes, I've done it.
So first of all, this is, I don't normally do content like this.
Normally my focus is on religion, philosophy, and science, but I saw you on Destiny Stream and my heart just went out to the Ukrainian people and to you and to your story.
I thought you were awesome and I just knew that I wanted to have you on to have a conversation.
And thank you so much for coming on.
Thank you.
When I reached out, I was like, okay, Anna, you're in a war zone.
Obviously, you're not drinking anything like it would almost be inappropriate to drink.
And you said, fuck no, we're Ukrainian.
Well, I don't know if you said fuck no, but you said no, we're Ukrainian, we drink.
It's always appropriate to drink in Ukraine.
Yeah.
And so I was like, okay, cool.
So we've got, what have we got to drink tonight?
So what I have is this, which is a Ukrainian brand.
It's a white wine, kind of semi sweet.
So I know you can't get this brand like in Australia.
So you maybe have something similar and we can, you know, never drink.
I looked everywhere, but you know, I think at the best of times, if there wasn't a war going on, it would still be hard to find.
But I couldn't find it.
I even put out a message to, we have a Facebook group of the community I live in and I said, does anyone have a bottle of this wine by chance that, you know, someone gave them or something.
But I couldn't find it.
Probably some secret Ukrainians.
Probably.
But I've got some semi sweet white wine here and I'll be drinking it with you.
And you've got like a badass goblet.
Like your glass is like, cool.
Thank you.
It's not mine.
It's like people whose apartment I'm living in right now.
So cheers to them.
Awesome.
So yeah, well, that's, that's a great place to start.
Where are you living right now?
Right now I'm in Kyiv.
And I go to Harkiv, my hometown every now and then for mostly for volunteer work and to translate for journalists and people who come to see.
I can swear, right?
Yeah.
That's a fucking movie.
Yeah.
So yeah, so people who come to see how fucked up my city became due to this war because it is bad in Harkiv.
Harkiv was one of the most damaged cities in Ukraine.
Probably after like Mariupol, obviously, that's the worst.
But after that, probably cities in Harkivska Oblast, which is like Harkiv region.
So cities like you mentioned in the intro, like Izun, stuff like that.
Also, Mikhailov, which is in the south, also was pretty terribly damaged.
But of course, also the Parisia, Dnipro, a lot of cities.
So yeah.
And I live in Kyiv right now.
We have a friend, childhood friend of my father.
His apartment here is now empty because his family left to France.
So he basically suggested for me and my mother to stay here for a while.
So she can, my mother can a little chill a little bit, you know, to like be a little bit more far away from the active war zone.
But just a couple of days ago, they did, in fact, ruined our vibe again.
Russians like killed a bunch of people here.
They shelled city center.
Siren.
Oh shit, really?
Wait a minute.
Yeah.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to move to the corridor.
Sorry guys.
No, don't apologize at all.
Please be safe.
Can you hear it?
Yeah, we can hear it.
Yeah, crazy.
Oh my God.
So getting away, sorry.
Going to be a bit more dark.
But this is for a little bit, I hope.
And yeah.
So what was I saying?
Oh yeah, so they killed a bunch of people basically.
Can you hear me?
Yeah, I can hear you.
We were just having a conversation and drinking wine and air raids just start happening and you seem so casual about it.
Like, it must be, you must be so desensitized at this stage to the constant threat against your life.
Yeah.
I'm not like particularly afraid right now, as you can see, it's just, it's better to move away from windows and from
Yeah, from windows basically, because the explosion can kill you, the shrapnel can kill you, glass from the window, broken can kill you.
And it's better to go somewhere when there is like two, three walls between you and like the outsides of the house.
So yeah, I will sit here for a while and then return if it's all right.
Yeah, be as safe as, please be safe, like be as safe as you need to be.
It's fine.
So this like safety bubble in Kiev was a little bit ruined right now.
So people are more afraid here because of the pretty terrible attacks at the city center.
We suffered a couple of days ago.
There was no electricity.
So I couldn't talk with you on Monday like we agreed, because just there was like no internet, no electricity.
And in many cities in Ukraine, they have been a 24 hour blackout.
So because they attacked power stations in a lot of areas, but our masterful service people renewed everything and it works now.
So that's nice.
And yeah, kind of a little bit.
It was almost like nothing was going on here.
So in Kiev, I mean, like no sirens mostly and people will like live in their lives.
And being from Harkiv, it always strange to see other cities live their lives normally.
But at the same time, I'm glad that people can, you know, live their lives.
So it's good that not everybody suffers that way that we do.
But at the same time, now it's not that relaxed anymore because I was walking around with my headphones and listening to music here for the first time in many, many months.
Because I no longer can listen music in my headphones without anxiety because I think about what if I miss a siren, what if I miss an explosion, what if I miss something like that.
And, you know, have to be vigilant to hear the sounds and react appropriately.
Also, when we were in Harkiv with my family, it was my job sort of to wake everyone up, you know.
So I would hear like an explosion or siren and I will go to everybody's rooms and I would be like wake up, wake up, wake up.
And tell them to go to the corridor because I have severe insomnia on a good day.
So it kind of worked well for me because I was not sleeping and I could, you know, like be the vigilant person who wakes everyone up five times per night.
So yeah, and I, because of that, I could no longer like listen to music in my headphones without getting this anxious feeling.
And for the time of my stay here in Kiev, I started to do that again.
So I would walk around with my headphones listening to music and I really love to do that.
But unfortunately, I tried to do that yesterday and I couldn't again.
So thanks, Rasha.
No explosions.
So I think it's fine.
I will sit here for like five more minutes and then I will return to that room.
Because it's better there in terms of lightning and more comfortable.
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, it's just like no one can like Ukrainians have to be the bravest people, the bravest nation on earth at the moment.
Like you guys are just, you're saying literally fuck you Russian warship, fuck you to the Russians.
Like it is incredible to see and it's inspiring.
And I hope that your country gets all the necessary help it needs from other countries to help fight against the orcs, as some people would say, who are just pillaging, running through and pillaging.
Right.
So that's another thing to mention.
I appreciate it.
Another thing to mention is this is a charity stream.
So so Anna's information, her PayPal link is in the description.
You can send her money and it helps her continue to like, while I'm sure it gives you some money to buy food and stuff, but it also helps you volunteer and put back into buying medical supplies and and everything else you're doing.
I know that that that you're racing on destiny stream and the DGG is like all came together and shipped in and what are they do?
Maybe you can tell us what they got or what?
Yeah, so I'm super grateful to destiny and his community.
It was way more than I expected.
So I managed to get 200 of hemostatic dressings for soldiers.
They stopped the bleeding and they are American technology.
So I ordered them from the United States and they are incredibly work incredibly well.
Our medics say they are just life saving devices basically.
So that's one thing we bought a quad bike, a whole ass vehicle.
So that's that.
Also, we managed to get a food cutter for our volunteer girls who work every day in Harkiv to do meals for soldiers.
So like food preparation, they do 2000 meals per day.
So that's for them.
I will show it on my Twitter and also all sorts of stuff.
We bought power banks for the soldiers.
How do you call that?
A thing that cars use to drive.
Basically for the cars.
So boots for the soldiers for the winter that is going to be here soon.
Already pretty cold as you can see.
So you know, it's a lot of stuff and we are not like stopping anytime soon.
I donated money for army of drones, which is a Ukrainian donation for getting us drones.
And also I donated to come back alive to $1000, which is also a Ukrainian charity that both helps our soldiers with medical aid and with weapons as well.
They even are allowed to buy weapons.
So things like drones, jevelines, stuff like that.
Yeah, and this is all just going towards helping keep your country safe from an invasion, which is exactly what it is.
I think I can return, I hope.
Let's go back.
Well, be safe.
Nothing is exploding, so it seems like it's not us who were shelled someone else's.
So lucky us, I guess.
Yeah, I'm back in the better spot.
Anna's been sending me videos and photos and updates for the last few days since we got in contact.
Oh, I'm sorry, I haven't finished talking about the aid.
We bought a lot of stuff and I will, I show everything like receipts and stuff in my Twitter.
And I just wanted to say to everybody who donated, just you're the bestest.
I really appreciate it.
And DGJers are biggest cutie pies.
I love all of you.
DGJers, I mean, they have a bad rap on the internet sometimes, but you can't deny it.
Hey, yeah, I don't know what they are.
They're my, I love the DGJers.
I would call myself a DGJer.
I watch Destiny's, all of Destiny's stuff.
I just don't go on, I just don't go on.
I see.
So yeah, I got some messages like pretty much saying that they're like demons from hell and DGJers, I mean.
And Destiny is also like, I got so many people, crazy people who just hate them, hate them so much.
And they just write to me and they're like, you lie about Destiny.
And I'm like, what the fuck am I lying about?
I'm not even like talking about.
Yeah, I know.
It's, I think, I think, I think the problem is, and I've been watching Destiny since like 2016 or 2017 or something.
I can't remember.
Maybe it was the John Tron stuff that I watched.
Like it was that.
Unaware.
I'm sorry.
I don't know the time.
Well, I think he just makes a lot of good points and it pisses a lot of people off.
And I think then he can be really snotty about it as well, which is awesome.
I watched some of his stuff, also quite a lot of his Ukraine coverage.
Obviously, that's why I wanted to, you know, talk with him in the first place.
And yeah, he pretty much decided to talk with me because I think he saw my Dylan Burns, who is a friend of mine who did interviews with me.
And yeah, so he saw that.
And I think then he said that he would be like willing to basically talk with me.
So I like contacted him and voila.
Like, voila.
I'm so glad you went on there and you got the attention you deserve this.
I just have to mention though, for all the DJs that I can see in chat that Destiny is, I think he's on point with everything except for he has the absolute worst food takes of all time.
Like I will debate him day or night on any of that stuff.
It's ridiculous.
But anyway, beyond the beyond the point doesn't really hurt anyone.
Really.
That's a good point.
Yeah.
Exactly.
So, so I also want to mention so all the donations that go straight to you go straight into helping the Ukrainian community.
And the army and helping keep people safe.
And I saw you sent me videos of people getting using the bandages on civilians.
So like the soldiers were helping the civilians and stuff.
We also have a little, a little bit of merch that I designed a hundred percent of the protec proceeds go to.
You know, we also have a little bit of merch.
I also have a little, a little bit of merch that I designed a hundred percent of the protec proceeds go to you as well.
So I just designed this today.
I'm not a graphic designer.
But as you can see, Russian warship.
Russian Ukrainian and in English.
And it has it's got the stamp that famous stamp that you guys that the Ukrainian post put out that was like had a soldier flicking.
So yeah, I designed that.
It's on hats.
It's on cups.
It's on anything, any scent that we raised through this will go straight back to Anna.
But obviously, of course, the best way to support you is to go just to transfer you paper money straight away.
I will close the window.
Okay.
We've got some people from destiny's brother.
Thank you guys for showing up.
So I want to give you like a place to open up and be free to talk about whatever you whatever you like.
Obviously, you've gone over your story a lot though.
So but if you do feel like going anywhere, if you want to talk about the spy skills or whatever, like, I don't care.
We don't wear anything.
Right.
But but I do think a good place to start was to talk about a little bit of your past.
And that is about how you left school to be a revolutionary of sorts.
Well, tell me about that kind of right.
Tell me about it.
There were other reasons.
But this one was quite major.
So I when I finished school, I was pretty interested in how the society works and stuff like that.
And I wanted to be like a social worker or something like that.
So I went to university and I did my exams and I got in.
And it was sociology in the University of Karazan, which is like big university in Harkiv.
And I would like to point out that you guys, I think, call everything like college or something.
But in Ukraine, it's not does not call college college is way lower lower in the in the education, prestige and quality than university would be.
So it was kind of like a cool place, basically, by our terms to study in.
So I went there.
My father was also when there and my sister.
So my father was in, she started physics and my sister's psychologist.
So, yeah, so I went there and I was pretty disappointed, honestly, with what I was starting there.
But I had like no real like concrete desire to quit right until revolution started, because I was 19 at the time, I think.
Yeah, 19.
So 19 and I turned 20, like in the process of the revolution.
So I was very supportive from the very, very beginning, like first, like week, but I did not like actively participate.
But then I started to hear opinions of my professors in the university about what is going on.
And those opinions were incredibly insulting to the Ukrainian people.
A lot of them were like straight up laughing, very like pro Russian and incredibly.
How should I say it?
Just nasty towards the protesters and saying that they deserve to be like mold and shit.
And, you know, repeating this Russian propaganda shit that Russians themselves said afterwards and in the beginning and in the process of the revolution.
And they did not support our will to be part of European Union, which at the time most of the people in Ukraine wanted, like 60 something percent.
And the fact that people went to the streets to protest the tyranny of the Yanukovych, our president at the time, who was basically a Russian puppet.
So he changed the course to European Union that was established to entirely different place, which is Russia that place, surprise.
So he was like very much like that.
People, students that went out in Kiev to protest when it all began, they were like a way dude.
We were like going entirely different way and why are we changing course that all the majority of the country wants.
So they pretty much my age, like 19, 20 year olds went to the streets to protest.
It was very kind of like chill, peaceful protest.
And he said, beat them up.
So students were beaten up to a pulp who were protesting there.
And after that, a lot of people saw what happened.
And even those who were like, who cares about European Union, you know, like people who didn't really care, they cared about that.
They cared that president allowed himself and we have an administration that allows itself to shit all over us.
That have no whatsoever respect for our will, for democracy, for their people.
So people went to the streets, millions of them went to the streets and it lasted pretty much entire winter.
And then Yanukovych obviously ran away to Russia.
So what year was that?
The White Galactic University is because I was very much disappointed already in what was going on in there.
But I wanted to be part of the revolution like all day, every day.
And that's what I did.
And I don't regret it that much to be honest, but yeah.
I mean, you shouldn't regret it at all. That sounds like that's a great story to tell your grandkids or when you're older.
That's so cool to stand up for what you believe in and say, fuck you.
So was that the Euromaiden Revolution?
Say it again, please.
Was that the Euromaiden Revolution, the Revolution of Dignity?
Yeah, you call it like Euromaidan all the time, but we just call it Maidan and also the Revolution of Dignity.
We say Euromaidan sometimes, but I think people just sometimes in the West especially, they like a little bit too much concentrated on the Europe part.
So like we wanted to be part of the European Union.
That was true for many people who went to the Euromaidan.
But not everybody, like many people said fuck European Union, we don't want it.
We want to be like independent from both Russia and European Union.
Some people were like, well, I don't know, I'm not sure.
Some people were like, yeah, we should like kick Yanukovych out, but still be friendly with Russia.
So it was very like different opinions there.
But the one opinion that was most important and everybody cared about is that we are Ukraine and we will not allow our government to turn into tyrannical one.
And Yanukovych pretty much tried to do that.
He started to came up with the laws that prohibit gathering of people, that prohibits free speech in all sorts of ways.
So he was on its way to turn us into something like Belarus.
Maybe not as bad, but something like that.
So completely dependent on Russia in everything and with a cute little dictator on the top.
So he wanted to be that, I think, which I'm sorry, dude, did not work out very well for him.
But because we are not Belarusian, we are not Russian, we are Ukrainian and Ukrainians will not allow this shit.
So we didn't.
People died, 100 plus people died.
People don't know that actually, but more than 500 went missing and were never found.
So there's that.
So people found bodies like in the forest, crematory, you know, do you say crematory in English?
It's like a place we learn bodies.
Yeah, yeah.
So they were working like crazy in Kiev.
So pretty much Berkut, which is like special forces like military like stuff, you know, they used against protesters.
They were like killing people, throwing them in the forest, like burning their bodies in crematoriums and shit.
So it was snipers, all sorts of stuff.
It was like escalating, escalating.
But people did not give up.
They did not back down.
And this is what you get when you don't back down.
And eventually you win.
You win, I think.
So this is, I hope will be our story this time around as well.
It sounds, yeah.
It's hard for, I guess, for me to fathom what you guys have gone through as a country, because we don't have any of that kind of conflict in Australia as of yet in our history.
Well, hey, fuck.
Yeah.
What's the best time, I'd say.
We don't have a little dictator near us, unfortunately.
Oh, no, I'm unfortunately, sorry.
I would just like to point out one thing, that many people at the time, at the beginning of the revolution, we didn't talk much about Russia, because we were not under oppression, under impression that this was their doing.
So we mostly were like, this particular guy, like our president, it needs to be removed.
Oh, you know, like we did not like talk.
Some people did say about his allegiance with Russia and stuff like that, but it was not like enter Russian per se at the time, because it was something people didn't know and haven't figured out who was actually standing behind all of that.
And many people in cities like my hierarchy, who also had pretty serious protests, and they were much more sympathetic to Russia at the time, because of the, you know, all the history that was.
So we were quite heavily, we speak Russian because Ukrainian was prohibited, discriminated against in Russian Empire and then in Soviet Union as well.
So the entirety of the east, your Ukraine to speaks Russian, not because our ancestors chose to, but because they were forced to.
So this is the pretty much what they do.
If you Google how many people in Belarus know Belarusian or speak it, not much, almost entirely dead language, like maybe like 20% of them speak it.
So, yeah, this was the fate they wanted for our language, our culture, since Russian Empire days.
So there were like things like MQK, those are real laws that you can Google in Wikipedia.
They were like prohibiting Ukrainian literature, prohibiting learning in schools in Ukrainian prohibiting pretty much like everything that has to do with the language.
Then they even prohibited, like, not educational literature, but all literature in Ukrainian.
So poetry, like, you know, everything.
So, yeah.
And in Soviet Union times, they did not straight up prohibit, like they did in Russian Empire.
So, but it was like a gentle, more gentle, more soft classification.
So they would not like straight up prohibit Ukrainian language, but they will discriminate heavily against people who spoke it.
So you would be, Ukrainian was considered and is still considered by them, not a language.
So a spoiled Russian, literally what they say.
So it is, if you spoke like Ukrainian and Soviet Union days in Eastern Ukraine, then people will call you, are you rural?
Are you a villager? Are you dumb? Are you not intelligent? You know, stuff like that.
Honestly, it's quite typical imperialist shit.
I don't know when people are so surprised in the West about it.
It's not that, like, different from many other imperialist, like, colonizing stuff that people did all over the place.
They just, especially Americans, no offense to you dudes. You are great.
We are grateful for, you know, all the help and all the support.
But sometimes they just cannot even imagine that white people can, you know, do that to each other.
It's very strange.
They are very all about race, which I understand.
This is something they care about in their country, makes sense due to racism and all sorts of stuff.
I understand that perfectly.
But people are very capable of hating each other, even if they are the same color.
And Europe is the best example of that, I think.
And people, like, at each other's roles here all the time, despite the fact that, you know, we are all kind of the same to you.
And a lot of race realists and stuff on online discourse will say, like, oh, Europeans.
And they'll class all of Europe as one big, like, group of people.
And it's like, do you know any history at all?
Yeah, like, you know what my advice would be, go to the Balkans.
Now that is, it's like this big, and countries are this big, and they all hate each other and war all the time.
So, you know, the craziest stuff ever.
Also, by the way, thanks to, you know, certain Soviet influence and certain Serbia, and let's not talk about that.
I don't even know.
Let's not go into that wormhole.
We have our own wormhole to talk about.
So, you know, this is pretty much what people had, like, when people say, like, oh, Eastern Ukrainians are, like, basically Russian.
And you're like, can you not disrespect millions?
We are huge.
We're a big country.
Millions of people like that.
The cities they destroy right now, Russians, are Russian-speaking cities.
So, Kharkiv, Zaporizhia, Mikhailov, they are all Russian-speaking cities.
Donbass was Russian-speaking mostly.
So, it's just, we speak Russian, but we are Ukrainians.
The only region of Ukraine where there is more ethnic Russians was Crimea.
That was, like, 60% of them there, for real.
But the rest is Ukrainians.
They just speak Russian because that's what they did.
They discriminated heavily against the language.
You will not get a job, decent job in Soviet Union if you spoke anything other than Russian.
It doesn't even have to be, like, Ukraine.
So, let's say, like, Georgian, Armenian, like Greek, maybe whatever the ethnicity or nationality is.
It would be, my father was considered a suspicious person because he had an accent.
He was born in Georgia.
And then he moved to Kharkiv to study and to find a job.
And people basically were like, are you Russian?
So, you know, you have to be.
Russian is an umbrella term, basically, at this point, and at that point in history.
So, you have to live, you have to identify as Russian, basically.
So, forget your heritage, forget your history, forget your language, and just assimilate.
Or else, well, you can live, but people will, like, laugh in your face, basically.
So, yeah.
I was going to say, I'm not sure if you sent me a link or not, but if it was you.
But it was like, people were so ashamed of the Ukrainian heritage that they would pretend to be Russian.
Yes, that's right.
Yeah, okay.
Yeah, that they wouldn't even...
Yeah, I told the story about my teacher.
And maybe, you know, your people would like to hear it, like...
So, the story is basically, I will tell, like, a short version.
So, when I was a child, people would, in Ukraine and in Kharkiv specifically, would point fingers at Ukrainian speakers.
So, in the metro, yeah, would, like, you know, go to the metro station, and some people in the metro would, like, speak Ukrainian,
and everyone would be like, children, and their parents would be like, huh, look at those, you know?
Do their own people.
It's just insane.
In Ukraine.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, that's how bad it was.
So, it was...
When I was a child, so it was not like that long ago, like, 50 years ago.
I'm old, but I'm not that old.
So, basically, my teacher, when I was in...
Our school was incredibly very anti-Ukrainian, everything.
So, the administration of the school was basically...
The director of the school was, like, a part of the party, which is the Yanukovych's party.
So, you can, like, kind of imagine, you know, the feel of it in the school.
So, when we had only one, like, teacher of Ukrainian and every other discipline was taught in Russian.
So, mathematics, physics, like, stuff like that, history was taught in Russian.
The only thing that was taught in Ukrainian was Ukrainian.
And Ukrainian literature as well.
So, this one teacher, she was, like, exceptionally, like, loud with her love for everything Ukrainian.
She would sing, like, Ukrainian songs to us all the time.
And I am saddened to say that we thought she was cringe.
So, we laughed at her, and I didn't understand what the fuck was her problem.
I was, like, a stupid child at the time.
I just... I didn't understand why she was so, like, obsessed with this whole thing.
Now I know, of course, but she was...
And she, one time, told me and a couple of other kids a story,
which I, again, did not understand how tragic it was when I was a stupid kid.
But now I do.
So, she was from a village in Kharkivska Oblast, and I think, and she talked...
The point is that they talked Ukrainian there.
So, her parents were Ukrainian speakers, and she was as well.
So, she moved to Kharkiv to get some work, and she wanted to work as a teacher with children.
So, she pretty much relearned herself to speak Russian, like, clear Russian,
without any, like, accent, without anything.
And she completely abandoned her language to be treated fairly, basically.
So, she then made a lot of friends in, like, school among the teachers,
and she presented herself as a Russian speaker to them from the beginning.
So, they only knew her as a Russian speaker.
And then she became pregnant, and she gave birth to her child in the hospital,
and her friends came to her hospital bed, basically, to pay her a visit from the work, Russian speakers from the work.
And her mom travelled all the way to the city in the very cold, like, winter time
to see her daughter and the grandchild.
And she, like, came to the room, to the hospital room,
and she said, oh, my baby, like, my girl, show me the child, my girl gave birth, like, stuff like that, you know?
And she saw her mom, and she spoke, her mom spoke Ukrainian to her.
And she, like, looked at the faces of her coworkers in the room,
and she was, like, petrified that they will find out that if her mom speaks Ukrainian,
that means she speaks Ukrainian, or at the very least she's from Ukrainian-speaking family, basically.
And she was so terrified of that, that she, like, straight up in the face of her mother,
told her that she doesn't know her.
So she said, go away, crazy woman, I don't know who you are.
I think the story just shows, like, just how ashamed people were, to what degree.
And her mom did not say a word, because she understood perfectly why she did that.
And she answered in Russian, obviously.
So the mom then just went away.
Sorry, this is just sad.
No, it's heartbreaking.
Ah, what's going on?
I thought the story millions of times, I didn't cry.
I don't know what's going on.
Hey, this is what we'll do, this is deep drinks.
You'll be the first person that's cried on here, so.
Yeah, sorry.
So she then said, that my teacher said that this was the last time she saw her mother.
She died afterwards.
And she basically said that there was a complete silence in the room.
And the only thing that was heard was the heartbreak of her mother.
I forgot that bit.
That bit kicks in.
So yeah, then my teacher then completely changed, like, everything she was doing, basically.
She was like proudly speaking Ukrainian everywhere.
She was like singing songs, but I think she in a way felt like very guilty about what she needs to her mother.
So she was like trying to compensate, basically.
And today I'm glad to say that no one will point a finger at you or laugh when you speak Ukrainian in Ukraine.
And this happened pretty much after 2014.
So this like wall between us, between the West and the East was completely destroyed.
We understood, most of us understood that this was entirely a bullshit thing made up by Russia to separate us.
To separate Ukraine, because, you know, separate, like to say, divide and conquer.
Oh, yeah, that's the phrase.
So basically divide people and then you can conquer them.
So saw division between them, like in terms of language, in terms of culture.
Many people in Western Ukraine, my like childhood friends were entirely convinced that if they go to the West, they will be like kicked in the head because they speak Russian.
And then I was like, I was in the West all the time, like, and I was like, it's not true.
People will treat you just fine in the West.
If you go there and speak Russian, nobody will be angry at you.
And they were like, no, no, no, they were like, they're like, they're like, Banderites there.
So it's like Bandera, if you know about Bandera is like, so basically this was a Soviet Union way of, again, sawing division.
So they called like all of the Western Ukrainians support supporters of Hitler.
So they would say like Nazis, you know, like the West of Ukraine are all Nazi.
You Eastern ones are okay because you speak Russian and you are like more aligned with the Soviet.
But those are all Nazis kind of reminds you of what they're saying right now about us.
Yes.
So nothing changed.
Yeah.
So many people actually believe that in Ukraine, like some generations of propaganda in the East people like, oh, no, if I go there, they will like bash my head in.
And I was like, guys, it's like, not true, even in the slightest.
And then they will go to like, you know, leave or something.
And they were like, well, they are like incredibly kind, nice people and nobody like said a bad word to us there.
And I was like, yeah.
Well, you don't even you don't even have bad words.
That's something we learned about when we're designing.
Oh, yeah, that's actually something I told David, but to your guys out there who's listening.
So they're pretty much like two languages where there is like specifically swearing like words, like words that mean only.
The swearing.
So it's English and Russian.
So you have like to, you know, swear.
Most languages, as far as I know, don't have that.
So in Ukrainian, you would lose like your use your typical words like a swine, maybe like a pig or like a stupid or something like that as a swear word.
So you don't have like something like fuck or like, can you say that C word, you know, like that.
Yeah, you can say whatever you want.
You don't have like that like kind of something like that.
So in Russian, you do.
And I will give it to Russia.
Russian language in terms of swearing is superior.
I will have to give them something.
I will give them that.
Yeah.
So they are good at genociding at swearing at drinking and at, you know, destroying other people's cultures.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, initially, because initially I wanted to design something that said fuck the orcs, right?
Because, you know, like it was, I think, I don't know what we're talking about, but I just said fuck the orcs, like, you know, and we're just chatting.
And then I tried to put that into like a translator and I could go from English to Ukraine.
But then when I copied it back and went from Ukraine to English, it said, damn the orcs.
And I was like, oh, where's the.
Yeah, yeah.
We don't have it.
We don't have it.
And we use Russian swearing here.
So thank you for that, I guess, Russia.
And we, in the East, we swear a lot, a lot.
So we are like, Russified truly in that, in that, in that sense, we swear.
I am a Russian speaker, by the way, for people who don't know.
So I know Ukrainian.
You speak three languages then.
Yeah.
Well, sort of like English is not as good.
But I feel like, I feel like you speak English better than I do.
So that's not true.
Come on.
Yeah, so I kind of like, we use their like this swear words and people in the West don't
swear as much or actually, which is kind of funny because they are so demonized.
Like, but they're like the sweetest, like most nicest people.
We hate the Russians way more than they do because they basically have not been for
once Russified.
They were one in Poland, in Austria, Hungary and all sorts of empires that were trying
to divide us.
It's not only Russia who constantly took pieces from Ukraine and we were like, we just want
to be whole.
We just want to be free, fuck off.
But this was like our story, basically.
It's not only Russia, but all those parts of Ukraine that were not in Russian Empire,
Ukrainian still, because they were not implemented strong policies to eradicate the language.
So that's why parts that were, for example, in Poland, in like Polish Empire of Ukraine,
I mean, they still speak Ukrainian.
So they were not like made poles.
So basically they did not, did not start to speak Polish.
But in Russian bits that were in Russia, Ukrainian parts that were in Russian Empire Russification.
So the language was eradicated.
Is there a huge difference between Ukrainian, speech, language and Russian?
Like if you set a sentence in Russian and then set a sentence in Ukrainian, is it quite similar
phonetically?
Or is it?
Why I'm smiling is because this is like the question for some reason.
People ask it on Twitter and everywhere, like all the time.
And people who never spoke either of those, like from the Western countries, English-speaking
are like, they're the same.
And they're like, no.
So I needed to, like I speak the languages.
I know they're not the same, but this is like part of Russian propaganda basically.
So it's not a language.
It's like a dialect or something, like a spoiled Russian.
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
But I did actually some research just to know what to tell to these people.
And it turned out that it was actually more different than I expected it.
So I was using examples like, for example, Danish and Swedish.
So they are recognized as different languages, although they are pretty similar, right?
But it turns out that linguistic experts say that it actually is a 38% difference, which
is Italian and, for example, French or Portuguese and Spanish or not Portuguese and Spanish.
Portuguese and Spanish are similar.
So Portuguese and French, for example, and Italian and Spanish.
So it's more than this language.
And I'm pretty sure that nobody will say that Portuguese and French are the same.
So they haven't met a lot of.
You haven't met a lot of Australians or Americans because I don't think we much about the rest of the world.
Well, French and Italian, you know, give me that.
Give me that.
Those are different.
So it's pretty big, significant difference.
I was not even expecting that myself.
I knew they were different, but I didn't know how much.
Well, this is a pretty substantial difference.
We are much closer to Polish, for example, than we are to Russian.
And yeah, if you say a sentence, I like posted words all the time, but some words are kind of similar and some are entirely different.
So this is basically how it goes.
For example, I would say something like, let me think, in Russian, for example,
Ukrainian language is very different from Russian.
And I will say the same.
It means Ukrainian language is very different from Russian, what I said.
So Ukrainian language is very different from Russian.
In Ukrainian, it will be Ukrainian language is very different from Russian.
So it's not very different.
It's very different.
So I've repeated your name.
So basically, I would say like, what?
I was going to say, like, I was trying to repeat your name to try and get the pronunciation right about over 100 times.
And I still got it wrong.
Like Anastasia, that's right.
Anastasia is pretty good.
You're doing better than me.
Oh my God, that's why I call you Anna, because I just can't.
Yeah, it's just like, that's what I say, you speak better than I do.
Is it?
This is Anna.
It's like the American friendly version of my name I invented when I started to speak to foreigners,
because they basically no chance in hell that they would be like capable of saying my name correctly.
So I decided I need to like figure out something for them to like, to not torture them with my name every time.
So I figured that one will work.
So basically what I said is that sentence if I like say separate words, for example, like a language in Russian is Yazik.
In Ukrainian, it's Mova.
Sounds similar to you?
No.
And for example, different, like different, right?
So it's different in Russian.
It's Ukrainian.
So not the same, even in the slides.
Yeah.
Some words are similar.
Some words you can guess what they mean, which is kind of similar in all Slavic languages.
They have like the same base.
Like Latin languages have the same like original language, right?
Which they come from, but they're not the same.
And most importantly, who gives a fuck?
I'm sorry.
I just don't understand if you can talk about it at the time.
Who cares?
So John, I was trying to slip it in because John, who I think is a DJ, is like asked in the chat if you could speak some Ukrainian because they love hearing people's voices in the original idioms.
And so I was like, oh, I lost the question.
And then that went into a huge tangent.
But no, it's very different.
It's completely fine.
I'm joking.
You can ask anything.
It's completely fine.
I would rather people ask and listen to Ukrainians than hear some Russian propaganda bullshit.
But it's just to me, it's kind of funny to people that people even talk about it all the time.
Because just even if they were very similar, what the difference does it make?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It doesn't mean.
Yeah, it's not.
It just feels sometimes like we have to justify our own existence all the time.
A little bit exhausting.
I didn't mean it like that at all to say, you know, I was just trying to get John's question in there without sounding creepy.
Yeah, good, John.
I answered your question.
It's just that I answered this question so many times already, but I will again.
I am comfortable with people who are willing to listen to Ukrainian perspective, not just, you know.
Yeah.
And I've learned so, so much since getting in contact with you.
I've been doing my research.
I started reading this book called I'm going to forget the name on it right as we're talking about it.
But I started reading this book.
Let me just find it.
Oh, my gosh.
And it's frozen on tyranny and on Ukraine.
So lessons from Russia's war in Ukraine by Timothy Snyder.
And he talks especially about Putin a lot through it.
And on tyranny was actually a book that he published like ages ago, like a few years ago.
And then now he's update updated it to go like, see, like I told you, like all these things like Putin is being tyrannical.
Like I said a little here and and then talking about right.
Yeah.
So I learned a lot about, you know, I'm sad to say I knew hardly anything about your history.
Ukraine history, Russians history or much of Europe's history to be honest, besides World War Two.
That's fine.
Yeah.
Nobody expects you to be an expert, you know.
Plus, there was like very much an effort on Russia's part during Russian Empire and then Soviet Union, like I said to make us completely invisible.
So our perspective was pretty much not heard anywhere until 2014 revolution.
So this is I would say the time when we got ourselves a voice in like in the world.
Because the only version of history was Russian one.
So you would like browse websites, for example, even Wikipedia, for example, Russian Wikipedia, when it comes to Ukraine, Soviet Union history is a is a bunch of bullshit.
And people in English just translate that, you know, so they translate like Russian version, and that's all they have.
So I understand that completely.
And we did quite a lot of like effort to to to somehow remedy that.
So basically show our version and reality, actually, not our version, I should say, but what actually happened.
And this is a problem, I think, with a lot of imperialists and colonizing like powers, because they tend to appropriate culture of other people.
Like pretend it's theirs, which they did to Ukraine on multiple occasions.
And they also make people whistless, so invisible.
So it's only version of those who are the of the of someone who is a conqueror, who is the strongest one is the version we know.
And I think this is something that people in the West have been trying for quite some time now to to remedy.
So show the the stories of people who are not on the conqueror side who are conquered, right?
So people who are like colonized and stuff like that.
So you people in the America, for example, like make an effort, it seems like to me to to show other people stories and to to at least try to see the history in a more like objective way,
not from a perspective for someone who is a conqueror and imperialist or, you know, which is good.
But this is something for some reason, those people who are very like hate imperialism, anti imperialism, anti fascist, you know, people like that.
And they see us and they're like, fuck you, don't care about you, Ukrainian.
I mean, so and I'm always like confused about that because this is the most blatant like examples of, you know, like imperialism, discrimination, oppression that you can fucking find.
And they just close the race to it.
And, yeah, kind of kind of hurtful and not gonna lie.
But, you know, not all people are like that.
So there's that a lot of people support us and want to know what we have to say, which is pretty cool.
But there was not a lot like that.
Yeah, I had I had some friends who I have a friend who lives in China and they did they did sound a little bit of a podcast and they interviewed people.
And the common thread is the young people know a little bit more about the world, but the older people watch the news and in China and it's it's like the world is falling apart because they're not part of communism and China and all that.
Right. I might be getting my details wrong.
But the whole point is like the world's falling apart.
It's all just, you know, going to shit.
And we had a tour guy when we're over there when we're in Zhengzhou and he mentioned that I was like, oh, have you thought about traveling?
And he said, well, he said it's so hard to travel because if you have to get permission from the government to travel, well, he does at least.
And if you look nervous or anything, they'll just say no.
But they and they only really let you travel to countries that they consider worse off than China.
They'll let you go to like some parts of Africa.
They'll let you go to like country countries that are that are poorer.
But they won't let you go to like America or or like Australia or somewhere because they want to try and like control the information.
And we even had friends there like this is like 10 years ago now where they were living in Hong Kong or something and then parts of China.
I might be getting my information money, but they said for a fact that they doctored footage of a football team winning because they knew that if that's the Chinese football team or soccer team or whatever one,
that they extremely would spend millions of dollars partying and celebrating that night.
So they actually doctored footage and showed false news about like, yeah, we won like when it never really happened.
It's just very, very post Soviet aesthetic.
I like it.
Yeah, it's very like you have to understand that in this day and age, it's much harder to keep people brainwashed because it is the internet time.
It's no longer like an iron curtain that was people made fun of me because I said iron certain the last time.
So iron curtain.
And it was something that was used like in Soviet Union to keep people from learning information that was not filtered for the propaganda machine.
So basically, no one was allowed to live the country.
You did not have any access to any information besides like newspapers that would like say Lenin was cool and that's about it.
So basically, that was like newspapers.
And the West, of course, is very degenerate and lives much better, much worse lives than you guys do.
So they like don't have each sheet basically there.
By the way, what Russian news says today, I would like to point that out.
I love that.
Talking about Western degeneracy by that they mean most LGBT people, of course, they like to talk about how like everything is falling apart, the West is falling apart, and you know, all of that shit, and they talk about it like nonstop.
It was something I was actually surprised with in during, again, revolution time, it was like many revelations in that period for us, I'd say.
So when I turn, I have like most of my relatives live in Russia.
So I basically was talking to them, and my mother was, and what were they saying about what was going on here.
I was just, what?
So Nazis everywhere, like Hitler parades, like shit, and people like who are on my down are like crazy, some kind of like Nazi terrorists.
And they're killing poor police guys all day every day.
And, you know, and I was like, wait, this is definitely not what is going on.
And they're like, no, it is the TV shows it.
And I was like, forget the fucking TV where your relatives were telling you it's not what's happening.
And this was the time when I felt like, well, something is not right in that.
And it was something is not right with these people.
And I started, and a lot of Ukrainians started to watch TV, Russian TV, to like, learn what the fuck are they showing there.
So people have these opinions.
And we were like, like that.
So everything they showed was a complete bullshit, like 99% bullshit.
And the most interesting part was that they were talking.
And someone did even did a survey and they showed that Russian media at the time of my done was 85% or something, not about Russia.
So news coverage, news media sources, they covered Ukraine in the most like, false way possible.
And fear mongering always all the time about Nazis and shit.
They also talked about how West supports this like coup, and which some people still call it not a revolution, but you know, like, and also talk about gay people for some reason.
And I was like, 85% of your coverage on TV is not about your country is nothing going on in Russia.
The word covering no problems, no issues, no like, you know, like anything you just talk about the West and Ukraine and gaze, that's about it.
And then I realized what was happening.
Basically, I understood that this was a propaganda machine that started to work in, in a very like, terrifying way during exactly my done time, because they were, I would say that they were like trying
to show it in a certain way, and as well as also preparing their people, creating the informational space for their people to be okay with what is going on now.
And with what they did in 2014.
So annexation of Crimea, Donbass invasion, and those referendums that they did with guns already there.
So, you know, and I think this was the beginning of that basically so they started to prep their population to be supportive of what will happen next.
And that's what happened exactly what happened, unfortunately.
Yeah, it's, it's crazy.
Do you do you, because it's it's frustrating to me that the propaganda is seeming to work on people some people in the West.
Like, I cannot believe that they're like, obviously you see like the mass Nick Fuentes or someone like, you know, pro Putin or whatever.
But like, like,
He's a very right person.
I would expect that from him.
But, you know, I know his.
So basically, yeah, so basically, from our right people, I expected that.
So it's not a surprise.
All of the bodies all over the world are all far right mostly.
So like, I just don't agree.
Like, it's, it's, it's far right synonymous with like, wrong opinion, like to submit like, is far like, because like, I understand, you know, conservatives and stuff that they want to have their like white picket fences and their, you know, you know, the alcoholic father that beats the mother and she
never has an orgasm my whole life.
I know they want that like, you know, nuclear family.
But I just don't, I just don't understand how then it translates to like these like objectively, like horrible takes like, I just don't understand how someone can be like pro Russian, unless they're like either like bad faith actors or like they've got some ulterior motive.
Also, it's, it's, it's, I don't understand it.
And I'm not saying that I'm correct.
Maybe there's a reason, but I can't see it.
I could talk about it for like three hours.
So I will try to make it sure.
Episode two.
Episode two.
And many things that influence, I'd say, for it, if you are far right, doesn't mean you are like wrong on everything.
That's for starters.
But what they, why I said I expected it from them, but I did not expect it from the left people.
Why I said that is because so a lot of far right people tend to be very like protectionist nationalists.
They are like all about power, about like military, you know, prowess, they are about all of that.
They all often vary against anything like progressive, I would say, like, like LGBT, like human rights, like maybe feminism, something like that.
So they tend to be like very against that.
And Russia represents all of that very well.
So I would say like they are there makes sense that they would like look at Putin and think, oof, now that's a guy.
So, you know, this like I understand that.
So this makes sense to me.
Well, they seem to not very care about like, you know, sovereignty of other countries that much.
So, and stuff like that, you know, a lot of them are very basically, I would say fascist rights, not all of them, of course, but some of them are fascists.
They are Russia's fascist in all senses right now.
So this is something they would like pretty much prefer.
So what Putin said in his latest speeches is like textbook fascism, basically.
Blood and soil argument, anti-West arguments, degeneracy everywhere, people even talked about Jews, I think.
So, you know, all the bouquet of everything you want.
And it makes sense because he's come on 50s.
Yeah, we would not allow.
He takes his belt off, belts his kids, like that's like, you know.
Yeah, they would not allow, like he said, Westerners to transgender their children, you know, like stuff like that.
So basically, like the textbook version of everything they want.
So that I can understand.
But far leftist, far left people turned out to be exactly the same, most of them as fascists, just another color, which is something I knew as a Soviet Union person who lives in post-Soviet, a cheeky smile.
So, you know, not a surprise to me, but seems to be a surprise to a lot of left-leaning people who are like, what is going on?
Well, so many people on our side, no, side, you know, like political side, who like, who are talking like about anti-imperialism, anti-fascist, bash-the-fash, this crowd, you know.
And they are suddenly like on Putin's dick.
And yeah, it is a bit confusing for quite a lot of people who like messaged me, sent me emails since I appeared on like Destiny's Channel.
And they're like, I'm like horrified with what is going on, why my people who are supposed to be like this anti-imperialist, like pro-people's will, pro-people's self-determination, pro-LGBT, pro-women's rights, you know, why they support something that is completely like anti-ethetical to everything that they supposedly believe.
You had someone after Destiny's interview, you had someone reach out to you and say, it's on the Ukrainian people, it's on you to make Russians less genocidal.
Is that right?
Well, it's like, it's the equivalent of like, you shouldn't have worn a low-cut top.
That's why you got raped, you know, I mean, like just cover up a little bit more.
I talked to this person, I tried to explain to them why it was, how should I even say it, why it was exceptionally offensive, what they said.
And how it's completely like wrong, like just morally on every level.
And yeah, people send me stuff like that.
And most of them, I figured out, operate on the thing that America is bad.
That's all their politics are made of.
So basically America bad and everything that stands against America, even if it's fucking North Korea or Russia, is good actually.
So I know it sounds like dumb and ridiculous, but that's basically what they base their opinions on.
It's partisan.
Yeah, you would talk to them.
It's like choosing a sports team.
Sorry, there's a lag.
Kind of, yeah, kind of.
So like very partisan like, so those people are very against like my, the evil empire that I live in, in wealth and privilege and insecurity of not being genocided by Russia.
But I will like shit on that all day every day.
And just, you know, like this isn't actually the one person who explained this to me because I was shocked by the reaction of a lot of left-leaning people.
And he was like, just understand this, that basically Ukrainians are not people to them.
Just accept this is like as a reality, basically.
And they are just see you as this proxy war between Russia and America.
And they like don't care about your like self determination about your will.
They have this weird like fascination and allegiance and fetishization of Soviet Union.
So they associate Russia with that.
And they think you are just being like brainwashed by Western evil capitalists and shit like that, you know, and they see you as like maybe victims of this like, you know, like America, Russia game, but they don't see you as people of their own who are fighting for your own reasons.
And they think they are very much the same.
So those very like far right people who like America is exceptional.
It's like the best place on earth, everything we do is great.
America sheets, rainbows and butterflies.
And the other side is like, no, no, America is the worst place on earth.
The most evil place to know every single policy they did internationally is evil and awful.
And they so they are the same.
They like this one is just America is exceptionally good.
And these ones as America is exceptionally bad, but still exceptional.
They can't see that some conflicts have nothing to do with it.
Yeah, we have P. P Barnes and I were in a discord community, P. Barnes is in the chat, and he's one of my mods and he we were having a conversation and this Russian guy jumped in and he was making some apologetic arguments for Russia and he was like, well, America invaded other countries and I'm like, you're not going to find someone here that someone who's like, yeah, America like I'm not like I don't think that's cool either man like like I don't you know like.
You know, like, obviously it's way more complicated than that, but it's like, it's like if you have to point to like other countries that are like invading other countries, I don't know, it's not not a good deal right.
I do want to ask, and someone said she's talking a D said she's talking facts 100%, which is cool.
Thanks.
But P. Barnes actually asked, can you ask about how local communities are doing beyond those volunteering our communities pulling together or being isolated.
I'm not sure, like, exactly what he means by like local communities.
It's like my term we use that like local like towns and villages and what they mean.
I'm sorry.
Ah, you mean like how people like inside cities like yeah, well, I would say this and this explains I think everything.
You would not see a more united and caring people towards others anywhere right now, like in Ukraine.
So people support each other to the craziest degree.
Everyone helps everyone.
People are just donate send money like all day every day just helping each other those who lost their homes or their loved ones who are injured by loss their limbs or something you know like war, basically.
This is something we do we help all of them when we were like we're trying at least so government does its best right now but people are helping enormously to the army to each other.
So we have like when in the in the worst of it basically when in hierarchy in March and in the end of February when this whole full on invasion started, we had like shots in like telegram which is like a chat basically group we use like like an app we talk in.
We would share news we would share like this person there was like no food and all shops were closed all a medical shops like drugstore was closed as well.
And people like say, like, guys I have like diabetes.
I need the meds, but I don't have them.
What can I do.
And people like, let's find this do his meds and everyone would like run around trying to find meds for the person like give it to them you know stuff like that so we would chat with each other.
So some elderly people for example had no drinking water at all, and they could not go to find it anywhere like for two weeks.
And we would like go pick water bring it to them you know like stuff like that basically so people help each other and that's why we are surviving and way better than we expected actually.
So this is because we talk with each other all the time, not only big volunteer groups but people who just know each other like their friends families and people they don't know as well we just help each other.
I think that's cool.
And sorry, I will try to make it less bright.
And basically, this is something that I wouldn't say like surprises to me.
I saw how united and awesome people can be in 2014 and revolution time.
And this whole revolution made me love people much more than before.
And I kind of like have this bad tendency that more many Ukrainians have to underestimate ourselves.
So we always think we are shittier than we are.
But then something awful happens and it turns out that we are great actually.
So you know, this trying times I think show what people are made of.
So this I think is a good example that we are made of something pretty sturdy.
It's very buddy story and it's amazing to see that you guys are not only like keeping, you're not only keeping your cities like fortified for the most part or you're starting to take them back.
And in Russia's army seems to be dwindling.
I mean obviously I don't know all the facts but it doesn't look good when Russia is like asking for a prescription.
I was going to save this message for this question for the end but I'll ask it now.
There's a lot of talk at the moment with people wondering if this war will go nuclear with tactical nuclear weapons or anything.
Do you have any information more than the regular person about that?
What do you think? Do you think that Russia will get that desperate?
Yes, let me put it this way. I know this is something many people worry about, especially in the West.
We know our fans guys but we joke around all the time about that.
How you're very like...
So I understand that because I think it's pretty reasonable to be afraid of nuclear disaster.
It's not like something you would... it's reasonable to be afraid of that.
People who survived Chernobyl here in Ukraine, we know that radiation sucks.
Let's put it like that.
People's faces melted off so we know.
That's basically what we talk about sometimes but most Ukrainians including our government don't think that they will actually use nuclear weapons.
And the reason for that is because for them they are nuclear terrorists.
They just threaten nuclear to get what they want.
So like our colleague and many others in our administration said that the West should not be puny.
Basically should not back down and should stay there ground because you don't get deep terrorists what they want.
It never works. They will want more.
So they use this as an intimidation tool.
I'm pretty sure I might be wrong on that but I'm pretty sure that there were plenty of statements made by I think Biden, President Biden in America and also all other European countries that if they do in fact use nuclear weapons that they will be nuked back.
So this was like...
It'd be bad news if they use nuclear weapons, even tactical nuclear weapons.
So I think they are not insane enough to not understand that they themselves will be nuked out of existence.
You have to understand that this whole posturing they do, like those infamous videos with Kiselyov is like their media personality, state media person.
He said we can reduce America to nuclear dust.
And you're like...
So basically it's for their people. You have to understand.
It's to show their fascist nation that is like almost entirely bought into that shit, that they are strong.
It's very important for fascists to feel like they are the powerful ones.
They only support Putin, those who do in Russia, like majority, right?
They support Putin because they see him as a strong leader.
This is very important to them.
What?
I said, yeah, he's 50s dad.
He's the come home, take the belt off, you know, wait till your father gets home.
He's that kind of...
So if they see, they already do by the way, after counter-offensive started in my Oblast in Kharkivsk Oblast and we retook like everything like that.
And they were like, what is the administration doing?
Why are those Khakhli is a derogatory word for Ukrainians?
Why are those Khakhli winning everything back in like days and it took months for us to take it?
Why are they so successful?
And you're like, ah!
So they started to criticize their government for being incompetent in their genocide and invasion.
So I would like to point out that they don't criticize invasion.
They criticize how incompetently it has been handled.
They were promised to keep Putin in three days.
So it doesn't work that way.
So about nuclear, I would answer the question if you let me.
So nuclear weapons is a threat to them.
They use it to establish, to scare us, to scare the West into negotiations, into giving them what they want.
And I would urge everyone to not succumb to those threats.
That would be my answer.
And yeah, if we get nuked, Ukrainians, I mean, we will still fight.
That's about it.
I would prefer not to be nuked, of course.
Yeah, it'd be great if that happened.
What are Russians currently calling the murder of civilian women, men, children, the bombing of civilian cities?
What are they calling it again?
It's not an invasion.
It's not a genocide.
Oh, a special operation.
Right, right.
Very special.
I can see.
Very special.
Yeah, you've got to kill those kids because if you don't kill the kids, they'll grow up and they'll not like it.
Yeah, exactly.
And you kill the women, then you don't also get, yeah, exactly.
You've just got to...
You know what, actually, one thing I don't hear people talk about is mass murder, rape and torture of civilians.
And one of the things that were told to many women in Bucha when they were raped by Russian soldiers is that they will...
We have testimonies, plenty of testimonies about that.
People who heard it themselves.
That if they will rape them bad enough that they will no longer want to have sex with men and they will not produce Ukrainians.
How's that?
And then in the same breath, they're like, well, you guys are all just Russian.
Like, what is Putin saying?
Yes.
Like, you guys are all connected through a...
It's disgusting.
The propaganda is insane.
Very incoherent.
So you hear things that contrast each other, make no sense together.
But they pretty much dropped this rhetoric.
They used it for three months.
They dropped it, that we are Russians, that we are their people, that they're here to protect Russians.
I don't hear it as much anymore because I think it's just completely ridiculous to say it at this point after everything they did.
And after burning our Ukrainian books, after destroying our flags, our architecture, our people.
After making people in filtration camps, which are concentration camps, I would like to point out.
In filtration camps, they would like to see people who have tattoos.
Tattoos are very popular in Ukraine.
So a lot of people have tattoos here.
So me as well.
People would have tattoos of Ukrainian coat of arms.
So this is like a coat trizup in Ukrainian, which is trident.
You probably saw three things like that.
It's our coat of arms.
But it was also a prominent symbol in Kievan Rus in medieval times.
So it's very like, it's a thousand years old this thing.
So it's not even like modern day Ukraine.
It comes from Kievan Rus in medieval times.
And this is now our coat of arms, trident.
And people have tattoos of that.
So this means Ukraine, basically, what it means.
So they would consider that Nazi symbol and they made people use rocks to remove it from their skin with rocks.
So, yeah.
Also like tattoos of ethnic embroidery of Ukraine, Vyshevanka, it's called, it's like a traditional clothing, basically.
So people, Russian soldiers would ask people, not ask, like say, under gunpoint to remove that from their skin.
And this is what they call Nazism.
I would like everyone to understand.
It's not Nazis.
It's everything that is Ukrainian is Nazism to them.
Not to them, they present it as Nazism to their both their people and their world.
So it is very Soviet Union type of thing.
Everything that is, if you, if you're proud, not even proud, if you just love your country, your people, your language, your music, your poetry, like your, you know, like stuff your people created, then you are a nationalist and you are like evil, basically.
So they mix those terms very, like, very much.
They call everything since like Soviet Union days, basically, that you, if you're like, I don't know, like Ukrainian, and you speak Ukrainian, that's it.
That's it, you are not.
That's enough.
You have to understand that this is just nothing but a, but a propaganda tool that they used for a long time.
And not only on NASA, I would like to point out, for example, people, actual native people of Crimea, Tatars, they are not Russians and not Ukrainian.
So in, during Russian Empire times, they annexed, they are good at annexing Crimea.
I have to give them that as well.
They annexed it a couple times in history.
So they're good at swearing genocide and annexing Crimea.
There are three things that they do that.
Yeah, they annexed Crimea from Ataman Empire, which is like Turkish Empire, right?
And people who will live in there were Tatars, which are not Turks, but like similar to them.
And yeah, so a Russian Empire took this part of land from Ataman and annexed it.
And basically what they did is they genocide it.
So in 100 years, period time, so one century, basically, right?
There were like, at the beginning of this annexation, there were 98, I looked it up 98% of Tatars there.
So almost 100% population was Tatars.
And by the end of the century, it was 34.
So that's what they did, basically.
And then they started to sell their land.
Oh, sorry, I need to, I need to, my laptop connected with, like, with, you know, like it's how the hell do you call it?
They are electricity called.
Yeah, so basically they then started to sell their land to wealthy Russians who built pretty castles there for themselves.
And they also started to let other Russian people live there.
So like deport Tatars people and just place Russian people, population there, so replace basically.
And then the rest of the Tatars people were suffering pretty heavily discrimination there.
And then they lived in a very bad conditions.
And then Stalin decided after World War II that now is the good time to finish the job and genocide the rest of the people who were staying there.
Tatara people, I mean, so Tatara were genocide two times, basically.
And yeah, and then he decided the famous deportation of Tatara people to Siberia, to other shitholes in Russia.
Most of them died, like, on the road or in the first year of the camp labor, like labor camps they were sent to.
So yeah, and they then were left with like maybe like 5% percent of them there.
And that's how it became Russian.
So I wouldn't call it Russian.
If anyone deserves to live there, it's Tatara people who then returned, by the way, when Ukraine, when Crimea became part of Ukraine.
Tatara people are very much pro-Ukrainian and they suffer right now as we speak.
The rest of them who returned like maybe 30-13% returned back to Crimea in 80s, in 90s.
And pretty much they are right now being their activists are killed by Russians since 2014 and they are horribly mistreated there.
So it is a hope, of course, that then we return to Crimea, then we can give them maybe the maximum autonomy of Crimea,
give them all sorts of privileges they can possibly want because it's their home and they deserve it.
And if they want to, of course, live with us, then they do, they are pro-Ukrainian.
But I would very much appreciate our government doing at least something to, I don't know how do you compensate that,
but at least somehow help them out after everything they've been through.
And what I was talking about is that the justification Stalin used to deport the rest of the Tatara was that they, he called them Nazis.
Guess what he did?
Nothing new, nothing new ever.
So he basically said that they collaborated with Nazi Germany and they were like traitor nation and they needed to be nuked.
And that's what he did.
But it's completely false.
Every single respected historian today says that all of the Tatara people were not collaborators.
In fact, 50% of them participated in Red Army.
So we're fighting against, in Soviet Union Army, despite the fact that Russian genocide did them before.
And they still choose to took a side against Nazis on the behalf of Russians.
So, yeah, and those on the island who collaborated with Nazis, the little amount, like couple percents, they were like then because Nazis took them with them.
So they pretty much, when they understood that the Crimea will be back to Soviet Union, Nazis like these are basically our people, our engines will like take them with us in retreat.
So all the Tatara people who were left on the island were actually those Tatara people who were in Russian Army, so in Soviet Union Army.
So imagine this, you are a Tatara person, right?
You, your family, your ancestors were genocide, deported, deportation, mass deportation is genocide.
So they genocide it, right?
And, you know, they mistreated it in all sorts of way.
Your land was just given away to Russians, like without any, like you're saying it.
And you still go and you fight against Nazis in Soviet Union Army, alongside Russians, Ukrainians, whatever, doesn't matter, right?
And then you return after you, as a, supposedly as a hero, after the war ended, to your homeland, to your home, to Crimea, and you get deported to Siberia as a traitor.
Good one.
It's, it's, it's insane.
And, and something that, that maybe you can touch on is, is, doesn't Russia, I know Russia did, I don't know if they still do, but they're still locking up gays.
Like, yeah, no, basically not in every like part.
I would, if I'm not confused, if I'm not confusing anything, they don't have like, maybe like a straight up law that if you're gay, you have to be in prison.
I think they removed it in 90s or something.
I'm not sure, which is not that far, like long time ago, but you know, but still, I may be wrong, something like, I will like look it up afterwards, but I'm pretty sure they don't have it like on the books.
But at the same time, they have regions like Chechnya, for example, where Kadyrov, that guy sideways, he is like a Russian puppet in Chechnya that was installed after Russian and Chechen war.
And he is his, his dudes are fighting here and already fertilizing our glorious land.
So, you know, yeah, so this person pretty much allows the torture and imprisonment of gay people in Chechnya, which is part of Russia, and Russia government allows that 100%.
So they would be those are like camps, basically, like torture camps for gay people.
And he was like, basically, on camera, Kadyrov, I mean, said that they need to be like annihilated because they're dirty sinners and, you know, all sorts of sinners, something.
So the first episode ever of deep drink.
Most of the Chechnya people, I mean, but doesn't mean that's why they're genocide people, of course.
But I mean, like, they're like, he was like talking about like Islam, basically, and that.
Yeah.
But but doesn't like it's not like because it's Islam, obviously, because it's fucking Kadyrov.
The first, the first, the first ever episode of deep drinks, I interviewed my friend who I met in ministry college is one of my best friends.
He was closeted for 45 years because of because he believed it.
He believed it was a sin.
Right.
I'm not, I'm not gay or bi or anything.
You know, it'd be fun to be bi.
Yeah.
Well, hey, congratulations.
At least you get the best of both worlds.
Right.
I kind of wish I was introduced because I get the best of both worlds as well.
But anyway, I always have this.
I always say this thing.
It's not all roses and rainbows, you know.
No, I, I, yeah, we spoke about that recently, but, but I try and be an ally as much as I can.
I can't even wear my, my L.S. my shirt.
Oh, that's cute.
But it's, it's just crazy to me that, that, like, the, the, the one pointing the finger at another nation for being Nazis are the ones sending the gaze to concentration camps.
Like, how does that happen?
Like, and how do people not see it?
Like, it's amazing.
It's amazing.
The mental gymnastics that people, the, the, the people are jumping through to support Russia.
It's crazy.
I was at the time when I researched this whole thing in 2014 again.
I was very like confused, you know, like how this propaganda being so contradictory and so dumb, how does it work?
Exactly.
So why people can't see that?
So they have like zero critical thinking skills or what happened?
So then I realized that the more ridiculous the propaganda is, actually the better it works.
So they have this like complete word salad in their heads.
And like I said, it literally enables the people's ability to, to be like rational basically.
So you would hear, you would think that it's way too ridiculous to be for people to believe it, but that's why they believe it.
Because it's just...
I was going to say there's, there's actually like, so for people who don't know, all the DJs here in chat and people who know you and come here don't know me.
I used to be a youth pastor.
I'm now an agnostic atheist and I usually talk about religion on this channel.
But the big, big thing that I learned in my early days of deconstructing my faith was that, that if you give someone counter, like information that counteracts there, one of their like deeply held beliefs,
they will actually believe that thing more.
Like it's been studied.
And I'm, and I'm like, and I'm, I'm like, it's, it's, it's unfathomable.
And that's why, like, that's why, like you can give a religious person like all the evidence in the world that, you know, maybe the earth wasn't created in 6000 years.
Maybe evolution is a thing.
And they will just deny all the evidence outright and believe their thing even stronger.
And I feel like that's what's going on here when it comes to the propaganda or Russia and all that stuff.
The more bizarre you make it, the, you know, yeah, I don't know what to say.
That's actually is an amazing idea.
You just said it's true.
I think you should explain it like that to people and I will probably will in the future.
You have to look at it as a kind of like very religious person.
So they don't need like facts.
They need, they just have the belief and it's enough.
And if you try to like prove them, so this is what Russians do a lot of them.
You would show them like, so basically you would go outside and you would film your house that is ruined.
Like in ruins, like literally on your phone and you will send your aunt somewhere in Russia this and you'll be like, look.
And she's like, no, it's fake.
You're faking like in your face.
Yeah.
Like, wow, that Ukrainian engineering, the houses are just falling down.
Yeah, I have a story.
I have a real life story actually.
A friend of our family, he called his mother and showed him his apartment was blown apart entirely.
And he just shows it to his mother in Russia and he's like, look, like barely alive.
Basically, the person was hiding himself and his children, his wife were hiding and they survived, but it's gone.
The apartment is gone.
And look, I'm faking homeless.
That's what Russian did.
And she's like, are you filming this in Syria?
And he is like, yes, I took the plane and flew to Syria to film you and just to make you like doubt your, your furor, like your dictator.
It's like that.
It's that bad.
So you have to understand that you're dealing quite a lot of times with two sorts of people, like those who religiously believe the lies because that's how they were like raised.
Their parents did their grandparents.
You have to understand that just imagine Germany was under Nazis for like how long, like not that long.
So basically, Hitler came to prominence and the propaganda machine in like decades, right?
And imagine this, but for centuries and you get Russia.
So there's like very hard to even like imagine.
But the rest of the people, they know, I would not like to like, to like pretend that they're all just.
Yeah, all of them know, many of them know, they know perfectly well what is going on and they share their dictator's ambition.
They're like dreams of creating new Soviet Union, which Putin said a lot of times.
And this is something like a new empire with Ukraine in it.
The reason why specifically want Ukraine is a long story, but it has, it's very long story.
I can talk about that if you like, but soon as Ukraine is very important for that empire to exist.
And this is something they support.
So half people basically brainwashed, don't understand shit, especially elderly people, I would like to say.
And some of them are just straight up like fascists at this point, ideology wise.
So there's that. And there is, of course, like maybe 15-20% if I'm charitable of people who understand everything and who are deeply ashamed.
But feel like they're helpless and there's nothing they can do to like affect anything.
Quite a lot of those people actually run away in March and, you know.
How do you feel when you see the anti-war protests that are happening in Russia?
Where some Russian, some of the Russians are coming together to say like, no, fuck you, this war is bullshit.
First of all, if you're talking about recent ones, they are not anti-war. They are anti-mobilization.
They say nothing about war and that invading, killing, raping and murdering people in Ukraine is wrong.
They only say they don't want to do it themselves because they're fucking afraid. That's what they're saying.
So they want someone else to find for their fascist dreams.
They want glorious expansion of their empire, but they don't want to fight for it because guess what fascists are covered?
So, you know, and they want some poor fuckers from like Eastern regions of Russia to go fight.
I'm not saying this just to insult people. This is like literally the people you see here.
So those are from very poor regions, from non-white regions, quite a lot of them.
So people who are desperate enough, so for them this pain they will receive for going into war is actually good.
It's a step up in their lives.
So this is honestly disgusting.
I have no sympathy for these people, for the people after what they did here, but at the same time I understand the process.
They use people who are much more poor, marginalized, you know.
So we rarely saw people from St. Petersburg, Moscow, like Krasnodar, Katerinburg, like more richer, whiter like cities, you know.
So they are mostly somewhere from like outskirts, like in the middle, in the east, like in the much more poor regions.
And this is not a coincidence.
So yeah, so those people were very much fine with those guys fighting and dying, but they don't want themselves, their fathers, their husbands, their like women went to protest.
Because where were these women when butchers happened, like genocide and butchers?
When were these people with Izum, with Irpin, with Kharkiv, with Mariupol, none?
But they went out to protest because they don't want their husbands and wives, or husbands and like fathers and brothers to be mobilized.
I hate to say that, I'm sorry.
But people did protest in the beginning, but not a lot of them, not nearly another.
How do you feel about, I've seen some footage and to be honest, I haven't fact checked any of this, but of some Russian soldiers like, you know, like raising the white flag and saying like I don't want to be part of this war and getting out of their tanks and stuff.
Is that bullshit or is that, what do you think of those people who aren't maybe doing that?
So listen, people who give up to a Ukrainian, to like take them, let everyone take us, take them into captivity, is doing that either because they're just simply afraid that they don't want to, you know, die.
But either they like morally think it's wrong, which I think is worth respect, of the respect.
We like could never really know like what their motivation is, but it's better for everyone for them to surrender, of course, and not to, you know, to do their, those criminal orders they're given.
So I would very much say that people who like went out of their way to protest in the beginning, like in March and April, and they were like very staunchly anti-war.
They called it war, they like named it war, they called it invasion, they were like these people I do in fact respect, of course, but the thing is that people in Russia don't respect them.
They don't have any support and it's not enough for a couple of thousands of people to go on the street.
They will just grab them and, you know, like pull them away in a truck and just put them in prison, that's about it.
So it does pretty much nothing.
I respect the desire to do that, to do the right thing.
I think it's good, but it's partially pointless, not even partially, it's actually pointless.
Many people need to go to the streets.
So those like 500,000 men that escaped mobilization, why didn't they go and protest?
We did that, we know it's possible.
You only need like 10% of the population to actively participate.
No revolution was ever done with like entire population.
It's not, it's never happened that way.
Like 10%, 8% ups, right?
So there are 140 million people in Russia, like 20 million would be enough.
Do something, but they're covered.
So what would you say, like if this somehow got to some Russian peeps and they were like on the fence about, you know, because obviously they have some serious risks to their own life,
which is nothing compared to what you're going through at the hands of the Russians.
But what would you say to someone who is like, you know, well, we should start a revolution in this country and we should over, you know, try and like say to the world that we're not okay with this war.
We want to overthrow it.
What message would you have to those people?
I understand that their position, I understand the fear.
We had the fear as well when going to the streets in Ukraine, right?
We were shot at, we were like mobbed, we were like killed all sorts in all sorts of ways.
We understand that this is the...
But you can get democracy, freedom and dignity if you are not willing to fight for it.
You have to.
If I was in your place right now, I would be on a fucking street and you're not.
But at the same time, I understand that there is no point right now in doing that.
I have to give it to them because too little people would support them.
If you go outside right now in Russia, like 10,000 people, it will do nothing.
They will just, you know, make this protest cease by using police force.
If you need to go millions of you, but people there who I personally even talked with, they know they will not get support.
So there's basically no point.
Maybe there will be like, I'm not, I don't really believe that, but maybe there will be some point when people will be so fed up with their government,
like they're starting to criticize it right now.
Yes, due to the incompetence, but this is a start, you know, start to like ask questions about the war.
Maybe not in a way, I would prefer it like, why are we killing people?
But in some kind of way, it's better than nothing.
So to criticize your government is at least a step forward to them for them.
And maybe at some point, if they're pressed enough, so if sanctions will work properly, if their lives will become much more, much less comfortable.
So no, like they can buy some stuff they used to buy, they can travel, you know, stuff like that.
So maybe then they will turn their ire, like their anger at their own government, which is something I think can potentially happen,
but only if their own comfort is at risk.
This is unfortunate truth about many people, not only Russians.
So unless their comfort, their personal comfort is threatened, people won't do what is right for other people.
This is like something that happens, it seems like, in a lot of places, not only Russia.
But they are, if they suffer 1% of everything we are suffering right now, maybe that will be enough for them to, you know,
lose some change in their country, but I'm not sure about that.
And quite honestly, I don't even care that much.
I will not hide the fact that I do, in fact, despise Russia deeply.
So, you know, I don't wish anything bad on people who are not fascists there.
I will say that, but the fact that there is so little of them just is showing, it shows you what the situation is like.
So when Germany, like United Germany, right, they didn't stop being like Nazis just because of a lot of the goodness of their heart, right?
So they lost the war, for one, it is very important.
The fascist regimes, they don't hold up when they lose the war because they are built on the idea of strength and supremacy.
And if you lose that sense of strength and supremacy, then they start to like dissolve, basically.
So that's why we need to win.
We need to effectively destroy their army.
We need to take everything that is ours back.
That will be a first step, I think, for the regime, for all of this regime.
And then Russia needs to pay reparations.
Oh, that.
Well, reparations, I know it's good politically and everything, but even thinking about just what reparation can fix my father.
No, it can't.
And like, look, I am a huge advocate for not generalizing groups of people and putting people into groups.
I, you know, when I say fuck the orcs, I'm not talking about Russians, I'm talking about the orcs that are coming in and fucking.
Yeah. And this is what I'm saying is, is you have, I'm just explaining where I'm not saying it's right, but that's where I stand.
But you've got a very interesting story in which your father was actually hit by shrapnel from a Russian missile while standing on the balcony of his home.
It's explosion like artillery.
It's not like exactly shrapnel, but artillery landed in the yard of my father's residential like little house.
And he was standing on the balcony and the shell dropped in the yard and shredded the house and my father to bits.
And my mother was inside the house at the time between a couple of walls from there.
So she was not hurt very much.
She had some like hearing problems and rubble fall on her.
And she then went outside and on the balcony to, you know, and she saw what was left of my father and she was unharmed physically.
But psychologically, I think you can kind of imagine or maybe not.
I can't, I can't imagine.
Yeah, to see your husband of 38 years like being torn apart and dead on his own balcony.
So yeah, I would also like to point out that I, Ukrainians, rightfully blame Russians for that, not only Putin.
So die on this hill. This is incredibly insulting towards like basically agency of Russian people, I think, to call them all like 100% sheep that does not understand anything.
And they do.
I'm not blaming them in the exact same way, of course.
So the responsibility, of course, is much higher on the officials, on the president, if you can call that piece of shit there.
So, of course, like propagandist media, you know, so same thing like with the with the Nazi regime in Germany, right, after they lost.
The most blame was on the like those who committed war crimes, like criminal, like things like war crimes, right.
And, but still the entirety of German of Germany paid the price as well, not like being arrested and executed, of course, like the officials were right on the like Nuremberg like, you know, like trials.
But they still paid the price for decades in sanctions in reparations in being basically occupied by other allied powers.
And this is something I don't want Russia to be occupied, of course, but I don't think it's possible right now in this day and age to do that.
But there gotta be something they cannot magically understand what they did to Moldova, to Georgia, to Ukraine, not only Ukraine, I would like to point out, nobody just scared about Georgia and Moldova at the time.
People like pretended nothing was happening to buy the sweets with gas.
So this pretty much is our time right now to be loud, to be visible, to show everything that is happening into other people's faces.
Not only for us for 2014 for now, but also for Georgia and Moldova, also for people in Syria, who are entirely unnoticed, because they did not have like cameras and you know, like modern day technology to film like everything that was happening to them like we do.
And this is our duty right now, basically, to make this stop.
They need to be hold accountable for everything they did.
And I'm not saying like, like I said, I will repeat it again, not like every Russian should be on a trial, obviously.
Of course, yeah, of course.
But they need to understand what unimaginable pain and suffering they brought to other people.
And their regime did.
That they supported us, were silent for years.
It did not happen yesterday.
They did not become fascist yesterday.
It was happening for decades.
This is also the resentment they feel against everything Ukrainian is not even modern day.
It's centuries long.
You have to understand that there is a history.
It's old.
It's like very old.
This like conflict between Russians and Ukrainians, Ukrainian quest for our freedom, for our independence, for our desire to be whole and free is centuries long.
It did not happen yesterday.
They just did not learn the fucking lesson like Germans did.
I do not blame a single modern day German for what they did, for what their like ancestors did during World War Two.
It's ridiculous.
I would not blame Russians as well if they admitted their genocides, if they admitted their wrongdoings in the past as well.
If they even ask for anything, people say you have to like forgive them.
Now, in the middle of genocide and war, we have to forgive them.
Are you insane?
It's a conversation maybe in the future, decades like after this whole thing.
How can you possibly say that to like a straight Ukrainian fucking person?
It's just boggles my mind.
Such a privileged, secure position to have.
And you just have to understand that this is a conversation that will not happen now.
Also, how can you forgive someone who is not asking for forgiveness?
They are not asking for forgiveness.
They are also not.
You also fuck forgiveness.
Show me actions.
Show me actions, not words even, but actions.
Years from now on, if Russia learns how to be fucking civilized, then maybe there will be time for you know like healing or something like I am not even sure.
I honestly, I wouldn't lie.
I don't think I will ever, maybe people who will live after me, maybe, you know.
So I wouldn't want like maybe future generations to like, you know, hate people, but it's something that will happen in time.
And to like demand this now is just the epitome of phone deafness.
No, it really is.
And like you said, like I mentioned before, I generally don't advocate for just like I don't hate all Russians or anything like that.
However, I don't know how I would personally feel if my father or my mother or my brother or anyone or my cat or my dog was killed.
My country, my city, my friends, my people, everyone.
You would be hardly, you can hardly find a person right now who has not suffered great loss here.
Even being forced to abandon your home is already fucking terrible.
But it's more than that.
And of course, I understand people would be much more like, I centralizing like in theory is bad, of course, and it leads to very bad situations.
We know because they essentialize us as Nazis and nationalists, right?
So I understand that it's bad.
But right now it is, it is not irrational because the majority of them supports the war.
So when we say Russians, we of course don't mean like this 50-20% that doesn't support the war.
Bless those people.
I don't know how they like survived this whole propaganda machine and turned out to be decent people at the end.
Like my uncle, one of the few relatives I have, let me like just give you like an example.
So I'm Greek and I have like ethnically like, so I have like million relatives.
So most people, like I have like no joke, like 100 plus relatives in Russia.
Like serious, like a lot.
They're like further away from me like, what, how do I say it?
So they're like close.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, but they're like a lot of them, like 100 people at least.
And from them, maybe eight or 10 are not straight up like excusing what is Russia is doing.
Maybe, if I'm charitable, five actually are very much against the war.
So like they hate everything that is happening.
They hate like the government, they hate the ideology that is rampant in Russia.
But five more maybe will be like, well, it's kind of complicated, which is like basically a soft apology.
So the rest, and this is very telling, like most people will tell you this in Ukraine as well.
We all in Eastern Ukraine, we pretty much all have relatives and friends in Russia.
So we had, I'd say.
So yeah, and this is something I talked with my like favorite uncle in Russia about a lot.
He's very much deeply ashamed deeply.
It just hurts so much by what is happening.
And he like talks to me and my mother's sister as well.
She talks about like with her colleagues, what they're saying at work, what her friends are saying.
And it's just so fucking bad.
Let me tell you that.
So those people who are sane right now in Russia,
they have like my deepest sympathies basically.
But the fact remains that there are a minority.
So one dude actually was like trying to basically debate me about like not all Russians, hashtag not all Russians.
And he would send me statistics like, look, like 20% of them don't support the war.
And you're like 80% do even with your statistics.
And even 20% doing anything.
No, but it's another topic.
But you know, like 20% of those don't support genocide and invasion of another act.
And shelling of cities and like turning cities to fucking dust in their neighboring country that they are supposedly think about as brotherly right fraternal nation.
It's bullets, of course, never been a fraternal nation.
They always been depressed and we were the oppressed, but like whatever they think that right so they think like that.
And then you're like, it's not much.
It's not much at all.
And to say that I would like point this out from those 20%.
Not all of them like straight up like support like in favor of Ukraine.
They're just like, this will turn our lives into shit.
We will get sanctions.
We will get like worse quality of life.
Why do we need to invade another country if it will like backfire basically.
So not all of them are like, oh my God, we're like killing like and we're like mass murder and then invading our neighbor for no fucking reason.
They're thinking of themselves and they're like, oh yeah, and it would be good if we didn't have to kill some, you know, people as well.
Like it seems like it's a secondary concern rather than like a primary concern.
Yes.
You know, the genocide of people.
This you can see with this reaction to mobilization as well.
This is what I was talking about.
So they are not against invasion and war.
They're against themselves participating in it physically.
They don't want to fertilize Ukrainian soil.
Understandable.
But I would hardly call it noble.
So one of the most famous left-leaning people, like online left-leaning people is Hassan.
I know what you mean.
I haven't actually watched the video.
I haven't watched the video, but I saw Dylan who, you know, Dylan, like my appreciation for Dylan has exploded in the last six months.
I always, you know, I thought he was like cool and everything, but like recently, like I just respect him so much more.
But I saw that when I was doing my research on you, I saw that one of the videos where you, I watched the start of it where you were just going off on Hassan.
Has he changed his opinion at all?
That's what I'm famous for right now.
Yeah, that's it.
That's why you're like your five days on Twitter and 5,000 subscribers.
Like that's it.
And I would like to point out that I appreciate Dylan immensely.
He is a very genuine person.
He does not do it for gain, for money.
He in fact lost quite a lot of money doing this.
People would rather watch him, you know, do debates with people yelling at each other about some nonsense issues on the internet.
So he is genuine, very genuine person.
I can see it.
Everyone saw it here in Ukraine that he's there.
Even those who didn't understand a word he was saying.
But they saw like he was a genuine, caring person.
And I would consider him a friend for sure.
And we spent some time together like in Harkiv.
I actually suggested he would stay in my place in Harkiv to save some money for him.
Because I know he's like not a millionaire and he's not sponsored by anyone, but rather only by himself.
He should be because he's doing amazing stuff.
I agree. I would very much like him to...
Because he's doing something that not many people do, you know.
He shows the voices of people who are unheard, I would say.
So we would like interview people on the streets.
When we were like in Saltivka, which is a giant residential area.
I think I saw ourselves send you pictures of it, I think.
Maybe not. I don't remember.
You sent me a lot of photos.
Yeah, so this is destroyed residential area in Harkiv, my hometown.
More than half a million people lived there and they no longer live there.
So it's completely abandoned and it's a ghost town, pretty much.
Sorry, 500,000 people have left that city.
600,000 to be fair, but yes.
It's completely ruined. It's Mariupol style damage, if you know what I mean.
Not many people talk about it, actually.
But it was the largest residential area in Ukraine, actually.
So pretty much like a district, I would say, like a region.
Yeah, and I went there with Dylan and my volunteer friend Igor,
who I work with to do volunteer work.
He remained in Harkiv this entire time and have not left.
No shelling will scare that man. He continues his work.
And yeah, so he basically took us, he's a driver as well.
So he has a car and he took us, me and Dylan to go film there
and show Dylan what the fuck was going on in the city.
And when we were there, there was this elderly gentleman who still lived there.
One of the few people who still live there.
I don't know how he lives there. There are no conditions to live there.
And he was just saying that his apartment was pretty much the only one
that did not burn up in the entire 20 floors apartment block.
And he remained there.
And I told him if he likes to say something like, you know,
on the camera I will translate.
And he was shy a little bit, did not want to speak,
but then he decided he wants to speak.
And he told pretty much how incredibly grateful he was
for the support of the West and America specifically
for everything they did to help us.
And this is an elderly gentleman in Russian speaking city,
I would like to point out.
So yeah, it's not something you usually hear from them, you know,
due to like they were lived in Soviet Union.
So there are certain prejudices.
But those are not changed now.
And he basically bowed like that to Dylan.
And Dylan was a little bit like, whoa,
he was like taking the back with that a little bit.
But I told him like, you have to like get used to that.
People are grateful here.
And they really like appreciate those who help us
because we know that yes, we are willing to fight.
We are fighting for our survival, for our culture,
for our language, for our values, for our freedom, for everything.
But we know at the same time that our successes highly depend
on the supply of weapons and aid from the West.
So people know that, of course, they're slightly terrified
that you guys will abandon us and not give us any more aid.
And we will have to fight with everything we have now
and we will continue.
I would like to point out that even if you stop giving us anything
right now, we will still continue the fight.
This will be much bloodier.
Even more civilians in Ukraine will lose their lives.
This will be like a partisan war, maybe, or whatever else,
but not a single person.
So I talk to many soldiers, to many people, like I volunteer.
I know, I know, I also saw statistics of people's opinions in Ukraine
and pretty much 90% of them will not say we should not back down
at any circumstances, even after a fucking nuclear strike.
So there's that.
So yeah, there is no negotiations to be had with people
who want to remove us from the existence.
What can we negotiate with them?
Not much, I think.
And for those people who didn't catch the start, I do want...
Sorry, loud sound, it's fine.
Okay, it's not siren?
No, no, no, something just... it's a car.
But sometimes if it's a big car, like a truck or something,
you just can confuse it with a plane for a couple seconds.
I can't imagine that.
And then I know it's a truck.
Relax, you know.
For those who...
I was just going to say, for those who missed the start,
Estonia, Latvia, Canada, Poland, Lithuania and Czech Republic,
along with the Ukraine, recognized Russia's war crimes
on record as a genocide against the Ukrainian people.
This is not like four-chain memes.
This is real, right?
And if you do want to support...
Sorry, if you do want to support Anna,
make sure you just...
The link's in the description.
You can send her money and it directly goes to supporting
her and her volunteer work,
mainly her volunteer work, of course,
which is just giving bandages to civilians
and to the Ukrainian army and things like that.
And if you want to rep the fuck Russia train,
we have some merch here.
And it's a little bit of design by me,
who's not a graphic designer, Russian warship,
go fuck yourself, and it's got the famous image.
So if you guys want to get this sick bucket hat,
I mean, come on, look at this beautiful bucket hat.
Russian warship, go fuck yourself.
Look how cool you can be.
You can be as cool as this dude, right?
Look at this dude, motherfucking cool dude, right?
If you want to support Anna, send her money,
but if you want to rep Russian stuff
and support her at the same time,
or proceeds 100%, every penny goes to Anna
and her volunteer work.
So yeah, you close the blinds.
I tried to cover the sun because it's just way too bright,
but it's still way too dark, but whatever.
It's fine, you look good.
Thank you.
So yeah, I really appreciate you, by the way,
that you wanted to talk to me,
because we all like, people call,
Dylan O'Ekcho told me this,
that he was surprised with how much people,
that's what I was talking about.
So Dylan is the person who shows the story
of this old man in Saudi Arabia.
Who else will show his story?
So people on CNN, for example,
I have been like on CNN like seven or five times,
I think I talked to it.
Are you okay?
Sorry, I just, I've nearly drunk this whole bottle of wine.
So I'm quite, I need to catch up.
I'm quite refreshed, let me say that.
Actually, if you want to know some dirt
on Dylan Burns, if you're interested,
he gets drunk like incredibly quick.
So we, after a very trying day, decided to drink.
And I bought him like, as a gift,
like those very, very sweet like wine,
and he drank it and he was like immediately drunk.
So I'd say don't drink with Ukrainians, I guess,
but well, and he was very cute when drunk.
So he's like brave cinema role, I call him.
You'll have to, brave cinema role.
Is that what you just called him?
Yep.
So you have to, like, if you ever, if you can't,
if you ever talk, when you talk to Dylan again,
you have to let him know that he's all ways welcome
to come on this podcast.
I'll probably reach out to him and say like, hey, what's up?
Please come on.
I'd love you to have one because, you know,
the stuff you are doing, the stuff Dylan is doing,
it's just amazing.
It is, it is.
It actually is.
I really, I cannot state stress enough like how much
his work is valuable because like I said,
who will tell a story of this old man in Saltivka?
Nobody cares that much, you know,
but some prominent people get to talk, of course,
like, you know, like our politicians,
which is good, they're doing a good job
in representing us right now, I would say.
But yeah, so people want their stories to be heard
and Dylan actually told me this, he said like,
I'm so surprised with how much people want to talk.
Like you would like, they would like film something
like in the Parisia or in Mikhailov of somewhere
and people just come to them and like,
let me like say something, let me show you everything.
And he was like very much surprised
with how like cooperative people were.
And I was like, it's not surprising.
People, there was silence.
People were silenced for decades.
And now they want to talk, of course,
they have the opportunity to say something
they wanted to say for eight years,
for maybe 20 years or 30 years.
So, you know, of course, they want to share,
they want the world to see what is going on.
So that's why people are very enthusiastic
about, you know, sharing the experiences,
even if it is a little bit hard sometimes to talk about.
But people want others to know what is happening.
And I think it shows.
And maybe this is the first time in, I don't know,
like maybe decades that we actually seem
to be winning this informational war
because against Russia, I mean,
so the world finally hears our perspectives, I think.
And yeah.
And yeah, I knew none of the history of your country
or anything until this happened.
And let me tell you, like, it's been fascinating
to hear your story and to hear everything that's going on.
I did want to ask you, though, like,
you've been interviewed by, you know,
you've been on CNN.
You've been interviewed by news organizations.
You've created video diaries and things like that.
You've been on Destiny's channel.
But Dylan's burned, Dylan, oh my gosh, I'm drunk.
Dylan burns channel.
Is there anything that you feel like you'll never ask?
Okay, well, hey, all right, well, I am.
I'm not Ukrainian, but, you know, Australia,
it's okay to date you.
I heard Australian people can drink as well.
Is that true?
Yeah, we can.
I'm not very good at drinking, but I am.
Oh, I see.
Which is weird for the podcast I have.
Okay.
So, but what I wanted to ask is, is there,
is there something that you feel like is not being said
that you want to be said?
Like, is there something that you want the world to know
that isn't being talked about?
I think we covered quite a lot of things,
but there's always something more to say.
I have, I have a lot of cool stories
and not so cool ones as well.
So, you know, I would like to maybe point out
something I already did, that this is a war.
This is actually the war, not a war for people,
because we're fighting the exactly same enemy that we did,
which is imperialist power that tries to destroy us
and subjugate us.
And it is very interesting facts.
You know, this is very interesting when I read some
Ukrainian literature right now.
For example, our famous poets and authors,
and I read the words they say are still on the money today.
So, they say about the exact same things we are talking about
right now, which is just very interesting.
You read a person's feelings like in thoughts from centuries ago,
and they resonate like if it was written today,
because exactly for that reason, because it is the same fight.
It is the same fight.
Those people, a lot of them, our famous authors were executed
by Russians, Russian imperialist state, I mean.
So, they were thought they were imprisoned.
A lot of our famous writers spent their entire life in prison.
So, this is something that still is on.
And I would like people to understand that this is not some
silly, I don't know, pointless war for we defend ourselves.
We only find because we defend ourselves from someone,
an entity, I'd say, that once are gone,
that once our identity is Ukrainian to be destroyed,
that once our language to be eradicated,
that once our culture basically degenerate.
And this is, people say sometimes about negotiations, right?
They say like, well, the best way to achieve peace
is dialogue and negotiation.
And I received a lot of emails like that from people.
And I ask them, what are we negotiating?
I understand if someone says to me honestly,
like with honesty, right?
That I don't give a shit about Ukraine.
I don't want to pay more for gas.
I don't want to pay more for oil.
I don't want any like inflation problems.
I don't give a shit.
You guys get fucked.
I don't care.
Well, understandable, right?
This is at least is honest.
I don't think it's very moral or very good.
But at least I can understand that, you know?
It is the person who cares for themselves, right?
Cares for their country.
Okay, gotcha, dude.
But most people don't say it like that.
Some right people actually say it like that.
I give them a thumbs up for at least being honest, you know?
Like, I don't care about anything except America who gives a fuck.
Why are we providing aid for this bomb ass out of nowhere,
this country in Ukraine?
I don't know what the fuck it is and I don't care.
Yeah, I mean, there's lots of brain dead people in the world.
Honest, yes.
But many people present it as they care about us.
So they're like, I don't want Ukrainians to die.
And I want negotiations, especially the leftists, say that.
I want negotiations to solve the problem.
What are we negotiating?
What will we do?
What about people in occupied areas?
What?
You're negotiating with your rapist.
That's what you're doing.
Yes, so what about them?
What about people?
So we liberated Izum as you know, right?
You talk about it yourself.
And we discovered like mass grace and shit.
What do we want?
We want to condemn those people who are still in occupied areas to that.
That's what we are asking us to do.
And I have friends in Herson, which is occupied right now.
They like pray every day for us to come and liberate them.
Do we leave them?
And what will happen to them?
What will happen to Ukrainians who speak Ukrainian, who love Ukraine,
who want to be part of Ukraine?
What about them?
Also, what will make Russia stop?
Next 10 years.
Next 20 years.
What they will take next?
Kharkiv? My Kharkiv?
Maybe they will go up to Kiev?
When will they stop?
We tried that already.
In 2014, we pretty much stopped.
They took our lands, our cities.
Millions of people escaped to Ukraine, to Europe.
Most of my friends, my closest friends are from Donbass.
And they escaped in 2014.
They started living in Kharkiv and Kiev,
basically rebuilding their life again, you know, in other cities in Ukraine.
And now they fight against Russia.
My best friend is now in the army.
He serves.
And he was one of the people who liberated Kupansk.
So he was proud of him.
But he was pretty much from Donbass originally.
So he escaped from there.
And he started a new life in Kharkiv.
And I asked him actually, will you be,
when this whole thing all out war started in February,
I asked him, will you escape?
Will you like go within like Poltava maybe, in Kiev, in like Viv somewhere?
And he told me, they made me abandon my home once.
I will not abandon my home twice.
And he went to the army to serve.
And this is the story of people here.
And we cannot, we cannot surrender to it
because what we're surrendering to is annihilation
of our at least cultural genocide.
But as far as Bucha and Irpin and Hastomel
and the Zoom and Mariupol shows and all the other areas
we will liberate and found new mass graves there.
I have no doubt about that, new torture chambers.
And we will discover that because this is what they're doing.
And there is no negotiation about that.
And I don't understand how people can pretend
they care about Ukraine and say just surrender
to someone whose whole idea, and they do not hide it,
they say it out loud on their TV,
is to eradicate you as people.
Would you say it to people in World War II?
To against Nazis or Slavic people who fought?
Well, Nazis hated Jews, obviously.
But they also thought Slavic people were also like,
not good enough, basically, so they were pretty much
saw us as not the second class, like a third class people
at best, right?
So you wouldn't say that because people just don't see it
as the same, and I don't understand it.
Because there are all facts that show how much
today's Russia's regime is built on this hate
towards everything that is not Russian.
I just remembered for some reason, I don't know why,
but I didn't share it with anyone, I think.
During Maidan, when Yanukovych escaped from Kiev,
and it was kind of a big win moment,
big victory moment for Maidan,
we in Kharkiv went out and we dropped Lenin statue,
like the biggest statue of Lenin in Ukraine.
I think I saw images of that.
Yeah, I participated in that.
So yes, we just used ropes and we just pulled it,
and we also used some stuff to do this action with their legs,
I don't know how to say it,
but the statue, like, pulled it away, basically.
And we dropped it with just force, basically.
And I phoned my father, not phoned, I went home,
and my dad was with my mom in their apartment.
And me and my sister and my friends were just like,
oh my god, oh my god, we just dropped Lenin from the Freedom Square.
And my father was like, no, no, you didn't.
I was like, no, no, we did, I swear.
And he was like, but it's impossible,
he was like standing there for my entire life.
My father was born in 1957, so 1957.
So he lived most of his life in Soviet Union.
Not most, quite a lot of it, right?
So I was like, no, dad, I swear to you, we just dropped the statue.
And he was like, borderline crying of happiness.
And it was just so weird.
And I was like, I swear to you, we did it.
And he was like, well, did you really?
He couldn't believe that this symbol of Soviet Union,
of everything we suffered from Soviet Union regime,
that it was actually, we actually managed to break the statue.
And then there was this funny story that my father was walking near this statue,
what was remained of it, a shoe actually.
A shoe was the only thing that remained.
We were calling it monument to the shoe all the time.
So yeah, and my father was walking past it.
And Russian Today, Russia Today journalists,
I will put it in quotation marks because those people aren't journalists,
they're propagandists.
So Russia Today.
And they're doing a great job.
Yeah.
Yeah, so they stopped him because he looks like, you know,
like an elderly basically person.
So they decided this is a good candidate to, you know,
to interview about evil Ukrainian Nazis who dropped the statue.
And the wrong person to stop.
They stopped my father.
And he, she asked the journalists from Russian Today woman,
asked him like, what do you think about that?
And he was like, well, I will say it actually is on camera.
I think I can probably find this on YouTube somewhere,
but maybe not, but he said, if you find it,
I'll put it in the description of this video so people can watch it.
Maybe it will be a little bit hard.
It was eight years ago.
So maybe it will be a little bit hard to find.
So he said to her, and I saw it like afterwards on YouTube,
that, you know, the statue of Lenin is like placing a photograph
or a portrait of your rapist on your own wall.
Nailed it.
Yes.
So I was like super hyped and I was like hugging him
and shit.
I was like, my God.
Yes.
Your dad, what a badass.
And what's your, your dad, your dad, your dad stayed back in Harkiv
in the worst of things.
Didn't he went to, to like, yes, he's like, no, I'm staying back.
Like, yeah, I mean, that's the only two things I know about your dad.
And he sounds like a badass.
So here's your dad.
Here's your father.
I did want to ask you a few questions just before we wrap up.
Yep.
If that's okay.
The first one is from MythVision podcast, a friend of the show.
He was actually, he came on Derek from MythVision.
He was a heroin addict for many years and he, he lost his faith
in the midst of giving up his heroin addiction, which is obviously
the opposite occasion.
But he asked on a scale from one to 10, how bad is the situation
in Ukraine with Russia?
I'm sorry this is happening to you.
Well, MythVision podcast, you're amazing for, you know,
he battled his addiction, right?
Yeah.
And he's killing it.
He's doing some awesome stuff.
Anyone who's interested in religion, philosophy, he's like his channel.
He interviews the best scholars in the world about the Bible.
Oh, that's awesome.
So you're fabulous first and foremost, but how the bet on the scale
from one to 10, how bad is the situation in Ukraine with Russia?
What do you mean exactly by that?
You mean like in terms of our like, what, like our disposition?
I think it's like, I think it's more like, like, I think he's
asking from a perspective of he only sees what's on the news
here and there.
And there's obviously different opinions.
How bad is it actually?
Is it really bad?
I'm sure that it's probably really early in the morning where he's here.
So he probably didn't hear the first half of this interview.
But is it really bad?
Is it like a 10 or is it like, you know, not so bad?
It's a 10.
Okay.
It's a 100 actually.
It's a 10, yes.
Yeah, of course it is.
I would say put it like this.
After 2014, I didn't expect anything good from Russia.
I knew what they were like, how they treated us, how they talked about us.
But this level of just pure violent hatred, war crimes, like just immeasurable
violence they use against us is something I did not expect.
And I think it was a wake up call for many people who were still like maybe on the
fence or not exactly like, did not want to be part of Russia, but at least were
like more sympathetic maybe to Russians, especially in the East.
They feel not only betrayed, but just backstabbed and hurt.
And this level of just inhumanity is not something that any of us, even anti-Russian
people expected.
So yeah, they showed that true colors, I think.
If you only open your eyes and, you know, see what they're doing, you can see how
truly, I think, unprecedented it is in 21st century, what they're doing right now.
At least in Europe.
No, it definitely is.
I would not like to be little, whatever it's in.
I was just going to say, the fact that like, it's so typical of like politics at the
moment where you've got people who believe that Donald Trump is the leader of the world
and you've got people who believe that he is a piece of shit.
You've got like these very conflicted views.
You have people who believe, oh yeah, what do they call, the Russians call it, the special operations.
But then you've got other countries saying, no, this is genocide.
This is clearly genocide.
Like you're literally just mass graves of civilians with mutilated genitals and broken
bones and like executed, like this is not something like, so you have such a dichotomy
of thought around this, depending on where you politically align usually.
It's unbelievable.
I think answering this question, this question would be the best way.
I'm sorry, I'm trying to somehow figure out how to not be so bright.
So basically, that's too dark.
Fuck, whatever.
I'll be like an angel.
So basically, what I'm saying is, just imagine this.
I think it covers the feeling.
I talk and call my friends and relatives who remained in Ukraine every day to ask if they were killed or not by a raid.
That's how bad it is.
Yeah.
So I think this explains quite like fully how bad it is.
So there's a siren, right?
There are explosions somewhere.
I get a message on my phone that a raid.
So either drones or rockets or missiles or maybe shelling.
And my city, Harkiv, before counter offenses began, before we took all the occupied occupied area in Harkiv,
there were like five, from five up to seven hits per day strikes, I mean, missile strikes.
And entire night, you just get your ass out of the bed and you go to the corridor five, four times per night.
And you hear explosions and you think, well, thank fuck, it was not me.
This time.
But then you think, but it was someone else.
Why, why are they doing this?
Why are they bombing civilian buildings in metropolitan cities?
Why are they doing this?
Terror.
Terror.
They're terrorists.
It's like we've called Russia a terrorist state for a reason.
They terrorize the population.
They want us to give in.
They want us to ask for any, to lay on their back pretty much and expect and accept any of their terms.
And we, they want us to say to our president, just please, for the, for the love of something, just end this thing.
But the, it's the opposite.
We hate them more with every bomb.
So, you know, doesn't work, but they continue to do it.
Of course, they terrorize the people and doing it in the night is one of the strategies of terrorizing the people because I, for one, have not slept for seven months.
So this is something that is very, you know, people have like these facts of their eyes.
So, you know, they like don't sleep much.
So this is a good strategy of terrorizing people in the night.
Sure. Yeah, you talk about like knowing like friends that you've known for a while grown up with live with like, you know, dear friends, and you're messaging them every day.
I've known you all of like five days or like, you know, a short amount of time and even I wake up and I'm like, fuck, I hope like when I text you, I take, I've text you like every day almost and like, like just like,
But I'm like, I hope, but like the back of my head, I'm like, you know, and I'm like, fuck, I hope like everything's okay.
Like, I hope like it actually scares me a little bit.
And one, it shows, it shows how caring I am.
I'm just fucking amazing.
And then sorry, that was a joke.
I have to say all of your subscribers like I'm literally shining.
What the hell?
Basically, David is super nice and one of the literally the kindest people I talked with.
So yeah, I will try to fix my shine.
But, but secondly, like it actually, it actually makes for me, it makes me realize how sheltered I really am.
Because like, I care, I do care about what I don't know.
It makes me realize how sheltered I actually am.
Because like, like to be like, I do care about you.
Yeah, I care about you.
Like you seem like a really nice person and you know, like we've connected over the last few days and stuff.
So I do care about you and stuff.
And I do care about people and like, like in general, but, but it makes me realize like, I care.
Like I'm worrying about someone who I've only met for like five days, you know, people who have been killed in this war that you've grown.
And your friends have grown, friends and family have grown up with, you've grown up with and they're actually getting bombed.
And I can't imagine, like it showed me how sheltered I really was to see how, how well you handle it and how well you just put on, you know, you move forward, you volunteer, you help the community.
Like to me, it really, it really put into perspective the situation that you guys are in, the situation that we live in.
We have in Australia here, like how good we have it here compared to like a lot of places in the world.
And it just, and it really made me want to say Russian warships, you know, go fuck yourself.
Sorry. Yeah.
And it's just, yeah.
So, I don't know, like, I think it's very considered.
I think that the fact that you can come on here and talk about some of the most like brutal moments of your life and still like, you know, you know, you've got emotion behind what you're saying.
And you've, you've had some, some horrible things happen to you and you're still fighting strong for your country is so inspiring.
And, you know, you know, if you, you know, if things develop and you want to come back on deep drinks and talk about all this again, you're more than welcome anytime.
I'll make it work. But yeah, I just wanted to take my house because like honestly what you're doing is amazing.
And for those people who have just joined a second ago, this is a charity stream, please donate to Anna, like give, give, don't just get behind on your rent.
Get behind on your rent.
So you can give money to honestly, like what she's doing is amazing.
If there's a charity to give to it's Anna and what she's doing.
Thank you.
I really appreciate it truly.
I, so just to get through some more questions, because it's 1am for me, but do you have any friends in the, in the Donetsk, in Donetsk?
Donetsk, yeah.
How are things under Russian occupation?
I, most of my people, my friends are actually from Donbass, which is near Donetsk area.
And, but most of them ran after 2014 when the annexation of Crimea and then, and then of course, Donbass began.
So they don't live currently in Donetsk for me to, you know, say how things are there.
But I can only imagine them being incredibly bad.
So I have no people from her son, which is occupied currently.
And people, people suffer a lot there under Russian occupation.
And I can only imagine things are just as bad.
In 2014, in Donetsk, people who were not supportive of Russian military and pro Russian militias there, they were tortured.
They were imprisoned. They were brutalized.
And they barely escaped with their lives from there.
I personally hosted two families from Donbass who lived, who ran away from Donbass when this all started in 2014.
And one of the families lived in my apartment for free for a year.
So I grew to care about them a lot.
I consider them like close to me and friends and family.
And they experienced horrible things there.
I should let me put it like that.
So if you hear people that people from Donbass were all like pro Russian, it's not true.
And I made that mistake myself, actually.
I was pretty resentful in the beginning towards Donbass people for being pro Russian.
But then I talked with tents and maybe even more of people who were from Donbass and told me, no, no, they just gave us no chance.
Everyone who wanted to be Ukraine there were either brutalized, tortured and imprisoned or they escaped.
So this is not...
We will never know how many people were supportive there of Russia because there is no way to understand that.
Russians did the referendums when their people with guns were already there.
This is not a legitimate referendum in any way.
And I would like to point out that before this annexation and this invasion, the majority of Donbass people wanted to be part of Ukraine.
We have those stats and those stats are true.
So I would like... I would hope that people are holding on and those who...
There is no way to return to, honestly.
Most of the Donbass is just barren land right now.
So I wanted to say that I would like them to return home.
But unfortunately, I don't think you can return to a pile of dust.
So, yeah.
So it's bad.
More questions.
Yes.
If we could send a message to our respective governments, what would it be?
And so this is, I guess, to any of the listeners, if they could send a message to their governments, what would you ask that to be?
Please do vote for those who support Ukraine.
And please support us in any way you can.
And by that, I mean, give us weapons, not just medical weapons.
Give Anna money and Anna will get the weapons.
I will buy drones.
I actually donated for drones just the other day.
So please understand that this is the only way for this to end.
It's for us to win.
It's for us to return our rightful cities and villages and little rivers and mountains and everything back to Ukraine.
And we need your help for sure, because our enemy is 100 times our size.
It's incredibly huge.
It's very much militarized.
It has a lot of people, a lot of weapons, a lot of everything.
And we don't ask any of you to participate with your buddies, like with your own blood and fight for us physically.
What we only ask is please help us with aid.
And we will deal with the rest ourselves.
So I think it's fair.
And I would very much appreciate.
I truly do appreciate people who are willing to suffer maybe some economical economic like things like maybe higher prices on gas and stuff like that to help us.
I really think it's very generous and I appreciate it.
But just just think about the pain and the suffering people are experiencing right now in Ukraine that we don't deserve.
Nobody deserves.
And just think about that.
And I understand that you don't want to pay more for goods and stuff.
It's very understandable.
But please think about what is more important, this or an entire country being genocided.
I think it's something to think about.
It's something, yeah, for sure.
Just before we wrap up, I just want to once again mention paypal support for Anastasia in the, oh my gosh, I said Anastasia.
Anastasia, right?
That's right.
Holy shit, Anna.
What?
It's more drunk you get the worse your pronunciation is.
Look, it's Anastasia Pereskevova.
Oh, sorry, Anastasia Pereskevova, right?
Anastasia Pereskevova.
Look, the surname is awful.
I'll give you that.
It's a Russified version of a Greek name.
So it makes sense.
Look, actually, this name is the result of the oppression.
I would like to point out.
So Pereskevo means Friday in Greek or preparation.
So if you want to live in Soviet Union, if you were a Greek person, you have to make yourself more Russian.
So you would end over if you're a female or ending if you're a man to make your surname sound more Russian.
So that's why it sounds so fucked up.
I just want to point out that I've been eating a whole food plant-based color restricted diet in order to lose some weight.
So that's part of the reason why this wine is affecting me so strongly.
So I just want to point that out.
I feel like a bad Australian.
I was vegan for a long time.
Are you still vegan or is that not the war?
Yeah, yeah.
I couldn't eat anything.
There was no food.
So I had to become vegetarian.
So I had some cheese.
Because no food.
So for two weeks.
So, you know, and I will be vegan, return to veganism again, of course.
When you can.
Yeah, of course.
And I don't think anyone would have an issue with that.
Well, probably actually.
That's crazy.
Yeah, but some, but so your email is just there to your PayPal.
And obviously you can spill and go by the stickers and the drink bottles and everything about make sure if you do send money to Anna that you let her know that it's from
deep drinks.
I'm sure she will let me know.
And then I'll shout you out on Twitter and give you all the praise and attention that you deserve because it's awesome to support this.
Yeah.
And but in saying that, I do want to ask one last question.
What do you have a message for?
I mean, you probably talked to them all the time.
But if you could talk to them as a whole, do you have a message for the Ukrainian army?
You guys are in our hearts.
We are incredibly grateful for every single thing you do.
We love you.
You are just people, brothers, sisters, and, you know, husbands, wives, fathers, mothers who fight and you are brave.
You are amazing.
And you defend us.
We defend you by buying your everything you need, by buying your medical stuff, by volunteering, by providing you good and awesome meals to eat.
Unlike the dog food Russians eat.
So Russian soldiers, I mean, so, you know, we, we appreciate every single one of you.
And so.
Well, without said, I don't know how we want to end this.
What is the, what should we say to end this, this amazing interview?
I would like to say you're absolutely amazing.
I really enjoyed talking to you.
And also your messages weren't super cute to me.
Karen, I think I really appreciate people who find it in in themselves to care about people who are so far away from them.
I think it's great.
And I think it deserves praise and respect.
So, yeah, I really appreciate you and everyone else who, who supports us and to who finds in themselves this like energy to support people who are not part of their lives.
I think it's very honorable and we really love you guys.
Thank you.
We are very grateful and we will never forget people who helped us.
So, yeah, that's, I think, what I would like to say.
Well, I was actually looking for a bit of a toast, but this is actually, this is what I love about this podcast is we both get a little drunk and then we get like like soppy like thank you.
I love you for your support.
Like, I love it.
I would like to point out that I'm not drunk.
I can pretend for your benefit.
Okay, great.
Well, for anyone who is new to this channel, obviously deep drinks podcast, we talk about religion, philosophy and science and now politics, I guess.
And this weekend, we have Michael Jones of inspiring philosophy coming on and we're going to be talking about the problem of evil.
He's a Christian.
I'm not a Christian.
I used to be in a petticoastal youth pastor and we're going to be talking about the problem of evil.
That should be a fun one.
I told him that I just wanted to scream at him about why children have cancer for two hours.
And he laughed and I promise I wouldn't do that.
That'll be a good one.
But Anna, thank you again for coming on Deep Drinks podcast.
It's been amazing and Russian warship.
Go fuck yourself.
That's the Russian war.
Thank you.
