Welcome to Deep Drinks Podcast. This will be a very deep episode. Everyone, I'd like
you to meet Kim Beyer, a musician born into Memphis Blues. She spent her teenage years
in the Cincinnati Pop Trio and has spent some time in the European music scene. Her
life took a tragic turn when her husband suffered a severe brain aneurysm. Her story has been
virally documented through her TikTok and now she's here to tell it all again in full.
Welcome Kim Beyer.
Hi, thanks.
Thanks for coming on. First of all, I didn't even ask this in the pre, but did I get your
last name right, Beyer?
Beyer.
Beyer. Ah, damn. Sorry. I apologize.
It wouldn't be Deep Drinks if I didn't already stuff up. Well, thank you so much for coming
on. What did you choose to drink today?
I have a classic gin martini. I normally do with a lemon twist, but I'm out of lemons
today, so we've just...
Yeah.
...years, mate.
Cheers. I got a bit of a... This is the closest thing we had to a martini glass, but yeah.
Cool. So for me, it's 10 a.m. What time is it for you?
8.03 p.m.
No, nice.
Nice.
So is it Thursday for you?
Yes, it is. Yes. I'm in the future.
You're in the future. That's wild.
So thank you for coming on. I saw your story in TikTok, and I was just kind of blown away.
I guess before... I guess we should just start with your story. I guess that's where we should
start. So how did... Can you give us a long version of what you kind of explain over TikTok
because it's pretty incredible?
Sure.
Yeah, so I... At a pretty young age, I met and married a wonderful German man. We moved
to Berlin. We were there for seven years. We had our first baby, moved back because
we wanted to be closer to relatives, and gosh, about... We had been married for almost 10
years, just had our second child. We were living in Columbus, Ohio, and yeah, he went
into work one day, 35 years old, and just collapsed in his office and had a seizure.
Was rushed to the hospital. They found a brain aneurysm, and they did emergency surgery.
It was very bad. We were lucky that the hospital was so close to his place of employment, just
like a three-minute drive or something. If it had been any further away, I don't think
that he would have made it. But they said it's the worst one that they'd seen in like
20 years.
Oh, wow.
So, you know, I was pretty shocked. He'd just been to the doctor and gotten a clean bill
of health, and it's just a freak thing that you don't expect to happen at such a young
age.
Can I ask how old was he at the time?
Yeah, he was 35 at the time. Yeah.
What is a brain aneurysm for those who don't know?
It's like a bubble. It's how the doctors, it's like the forms that it can explode, and when
it does, the blood can just flood the brain and interrupt its processes.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah. So, when it happened, he got rushed to the hospital. Where were you?
I was at home with our kids, and my mom and my brother had just gotten into town like that
morning to visit us for the weekend, which is a little wild to think about. They just
stayed after that, and they've been here ever since, really. They helped the family out.
Yeah.
Yeah, I was at home. His coworker came and knocked on the door and looked very serious,
which shook me a little bit, and said that he'd had a seizure and was unresponsive, and
that I needed to come to the ER, and so we just grabbed some things and grabbed the babies
and headed over. They took me back to see him. I just remember it feeling so surreal,
and I'm usually pretty good in crisis situations. I keep a pretty cool head. I'm like, oh, it's
not that bad. Everybody calm down. It'll be fine. He was just at the doctor, but when
they took me back to see him, and I saw him laying in the hospital bed with all the wires
and things, and he just looked dead. He wasn't the right person. His eyes weren't open, and
he just looked wrong. I don't know how else to describe it, but not, yeah. That's when
it sank in, like, oh my gosh, this could be really serious. I think what's happened. It
was a wild night, just kind of bumpkins and needles waiting to see if he would make it
through the surgery to start bleeding in the brain. We had a lot of friends and family
members there. Our baby was four months old at the time, and so I'm still nursing him,
and I have pretty severe rheumatoid arthritis at the time, and so I'm so grateful that people
came and kind of surrounded us and that we weren't alone. Yeah, it's just very surreal.
So going into surgery, did you know the chances of him surviving that surgery?
I don't remember the chances. I remember they were very straightforward with me that there's
a very good chance that he wouldn't make it through. It was already pretty bad, the condition
that he was in, and they just weren't sure. I expected at any moment that one of the surgeons
would come out and tell me that he was gone. So this is something I didn't realize until
literally, like, after I'd invited you onto this channel, is you were quite a committed
Christian at the time, and you kind of talked about this in the back room, but you're kind
of floating at the moment. You're not sure where your fate is, but at the time, you mentioned
in the TikTok that he said that he saw Jesus in his seizure or his aneurysm or something,
and what were you thinking about through this, like, from a faith perspective? Were you, like,
praying? Obviously, you're probably praying. I don't know what type of church you were involved in,
were you part of a church that believed in miracles and healings and things like that.
Can you talk a little bit about your faith at this point? Like, what was going through your mind?
Of course. Yeah, we were both very devoted Christians. He was working as a pastor at the
time. So a lot of people could come to the waiting room and they were praying and like
singing worship songs. And I had never experienced a miracle up close and personal before. So I
don't know that I had that expectation, even though I'd heard of them and people were like,
oh, God can heal him. I was like, maybe he will. I don't know. So I remember thinking, like, yeah,
maybe God can heal him. Maybe God will heal him. I don't know if he will. Just still feeling very
up in the air. I wasn't by any means like, yes, absolutely, God's gonna get him through this
thing. Like that wasn't really there at the time. I remember not feeling desperate, but just feeling
calm. Like, I was sad and I was crying so much. But also like, just feeling out of control and
like, I can't do anything in this situation. All I can do is like, shoot up a prayer and see what
happens, you know, just acknowledging that I don't have any control here. Yeah, 100%. And so what
were the following days like after that first night after the surgery?
A blur. So he survived the surgery. And doctors immediately told me, though, even though he's
alive, he is depending on life support, like he is breathing because machines are helping him
breathe. We don't know that he can do that on his own. We don't think he can. So it was like,
they were trying to keep him alive on life support long enough for his family members to
come in and say goodbye. Because they had told me, the doctors had told me that he's, he's not like,
we don't know when we lost him, but we did. Those were their words to me. He's, I guess,
alive medically, but brain dead, pretty much like no, no responsiveness.
Do you remember how that felt? Like, what was going through your mind when you, when you thought
that your husband was brain dead? I was devastated. I remember not being able to imagine any other
life. Like we were such an amazing fit for each other. And we had had 10 wonderful years of marriage
and expected to spend the rest of our lives together. And our kids were young and was just so
absolutely jarring. Within 24 hours have the entire future that you have been looking forward to
and anticipating just like, all of a sudden gone, you know? I was, I was devastated, but also in
like survival mode a bit because we had our kids. And, you know, it's like, when you've got a four
month old who needs to nurse around the clock, like they kind of keep you in the moment a bit.
You're like, okay, here's the next thing. He needs something. And then, yeah.
I can't even, we've got a five month old and it's our first, the first baby and
thank you. He was IVF baby. And he, yeah, I can't imagine going through
like a traumatic experience and having to nurse this child at the same time, especially because
you had other kids as well, right? So like, yeah, that would have been, that would have been brutal.
I felt, I feel like he kept me connected to reality in a way.
Yeah, gave me something to do. And just some physical comfort. Like, okay, he's still family.
He's still here. He still, you know, needs me and knows me. And yeah, but it was very much like
feeling devastated and a bit dead inside too. Like, you're all out of emotions, but they just
keep coming in a way. And you're just going like, from step to step, like, okay, the baby needs
nursed. I guess I should eat something. Yeah, going through that for sure. Do you like forget to
kind of like take care of yourself? Like you forget to, yeah, yeah, I imagine. So, where do you go
from there? Like, so you've found that out. Do you like visit? Like, how long is it between then and,
you know, later in when things, when you start making kind of decisions? Like, how long is it
that he's in this state? For 10 days. It was about 10 days that he was on life support and
I'm responsive. And his family, his mom, his sisters, they'd all been able to come and see him
and, you know, say their goodbyes. At that point, I was, I remember feeling like just spread so
thin emotionally. And our two-year-old had mostly been at home the last 10 days and, you know, with
his grandparents and other people and like just knowing that he needs me. He's going this too.
And since my husband and I had talked about what he would want if a situation like this were to
happen, I knew that he would have, you know, like I said, he was a strong Christian. He would have
been like, he would have wanted me to unplug things and let him move on. He wouldn't have been
wanted to, he wouldn't have wanted me to keep him in some weird in-between state. So I, by day 10,
I felt ready to turn off life support and I had already thought through like, okay,
are we going to do work and donation? And I'd already talked to our son and told him that his
dad was gone and thought about like who was going to be in the room, you know, when we turn things
off and, you know, we really thought that he was dead. And so that day came and I was at the bank
with my dad and we got a phone call that he had started responding. This was the day that I was
going to turn everything off. And he had started responding. One of the nurses had been in his
room cleaning some things and she noticed maybe like some fluttering and maybe his fingers moving
a bit and she called the doctor and the neurosurgeon to just take a look. And he held my husband's
hand and was like, hey, if you're in there, squeeze my hand. And he did. And he said, okay,
now let go. And then he did. And so he was understanding and able to follow, you know,
those commands. And so I got a phone call, you know, that he's awake, he's responding. And
I just dropped right in the middle of the bank. I was so relieved and so overwhelmed that just
kind of everything that we've been planning that I didn't want to do.
So like turning things off, having the people in the room, you know, that I wasn't going to have
to do that anymore, that we weren't going to have to go through that. I just sobbed and
we went to the hospital immediately. And I was so excited to like, because no one had explained to
me at this point, like what his condition was, you just hear your husband's awake, you know,
have to be in a coma for 10 days. And you freak out, you're like, I can't wait to talk to him.
I can't wait to hug him. And then I went in the room and like, it was just so bizarre. He,
I mean, he still looked the same, like he still looked unresponsive. And I could see that his
hands were moving, but like you would go and hug him and, you know, his eyes weren't opening. And
then the doctors kind of pulled me aside and they were like, okay, so he's responsive. He's awake.
But he's not, he's still, he's still had a lot of brain damage. And he's never going to be capable
of meaningful human connection ever again, is what they told me. And they said, we're going to
transition him to, you know, rehabilitation and see what is possible. But this is going to be
a marathon. It's a miracle is what they told me that he's awake. But we want you to have
real realistic expectations for what the future holds. I just thought they were
full of, yeah, can I swear on this? Yeah, yeah, definitely. I thought they were full of shit.
I was like, you, you don't, you don't know him. You don't know us. Like we're so determined and
motivated. And I think it was just too much for me to hear in the moment. I just didn't believe
them. I just didn't. Yeah, yeah. Did you tribute any of the waking up or anything to prayer? Like
did people like celebrating like our prayers came through or anything? Yeah, of course. People were
just out of their minds. Like it's a miracle. God healed him. God brought him back. People were
freaking out. And we kind of became like poster children for healing and miracles after the
which difficult of itself has been a little while. We can talk about my journey with all
that later if you'd like. Yeah, definitely. Yeah, because I can't imagine the roller coaster this
this would do to someone's faith. Because yeah, it's just that's incredible. So, okay, so
so you meet him. So you go into the room. What happens when you first kind of see him?
I mean, I felt so like grateful and like excited and full of expectation. But very quickly could
see that he wasn't the same like he wasn't back. He wasn't dead. But that this was going to be
like a very different situation from the one that we were used to. Yeah, because he wasn't speaking
or opening his eyes or it was really just like a little bit of movement in the hands was all.
Yeah, yeah. Okay. So did how long did it take I guess from there to when he like woke up for
like when he could I guess talk look at you have conversation things like that. How long did that
take? It was just a little bit at a time over a long period of time. So I think I don't know,
maybe a week later, they started having him like putting him in a machine that would like help him
stand up. It was a bed that would then wrote they would strap him down and it would rotate 90
degrees and you know, he had to to relearn everything. He couldn't even sit up by himself
or breathe on his own and he had tubes down his throat. And so I can't remember exactly how long
it was before they took the tubes out. But they had to transition him from you know, I was gonna
mix up the respirator event. They had to take him off of the more serious one and put him on the
kind of middle the stone one. And when the tube tube came out, you know, you can't talk if that's
in there. And so then that was like, is he going to be able to say anything or make noises? And
he couldn't for I think it was maybe nine months before he was able to really say anything.
He could make some noises. He could push a button that said yes or a button that said no.
But it was a very long time until we were able to kind of effectively communicate with each other
because he had lost the ability to read, to write. Typing didn't work either. He had a condition
called aphasia, which is really common with stroke survivors. There's a receptive aphasia where you
don't understand what people are saying to you. He didn't, we learned later, he didn't really have
that kind. He had the expressive kind where he could understand. But it was difficult for him to
get words out and gets lost like on the way from his brain to his mouth. So he had to retrain all
of those muscles. So once he was like communicating more nine, 10 months later, then it became more
clear like how present he was in his mind. But until then, you know, I was so firmly, I really
believed that like he was fully there. He understood everything. Nothing had changed
in his mind and that he just couldn't get anything out, which didn't end up being the case. But
yeah, I think it was just too hard for me to accept in those first few months when doctors
would tell me, hey, we don't know if he recognizes you or remembers your life together or
even his values, things that were important to him. We would show him pictures of friends and
family members and he would act as if he recognized them. And I think that maybe he did, but yeah,
it was just a very long time before we were able to really connect in a way where I knew he
understands me and I understand him. Yeah. It's interesting how the brain, this must have like
really shifted, I don't know if it did, but like for me, I used to think, I don't know what I thought,
but I hear a lot of people say that we aren't our brains or like they think consciousness is like
in this in like your soul or something like not just like Christians, but like a lot of
Eastern thought and stuff. It's like your brain isn't we're not we're not like brains and machines
essentially like where there's something else going on consciousness or a soul or a spirit or
something. But it's really hard to rectify that when you see things like what you're talking about
where someone might have a brain injury and then they experience things differently. I've heard
stories of there's a type of epilepsy, I think it is, and they can cut the connection between
the two halves of the brain and it's a really risky surgery, but they do that and then people
can answer differently because one part of the brain works with motor skills and one part of the
brain works with speaking. So you can ask them like something like who would you vote for and
they'll point to someone and say someone else and you can ask them actually like do you believe in
God and they'll point to no or yes and say the opposite. So it's like and for me it was like
does like half the brain go to heaven? Like or like you know like that like at what stage
there like you know it's really it's a really weird thing to think about. Yeah yeah it's um
how did uh so how did you go from from that state until because eventually he started talking
and stuff again right and started being how long was that process and and how did you deal with all
yeah um I think we continued to see him make progress for at least a year it was between
one and two years when he seemed to kind of plateau maybe um and I mean he was in
let's see three different hospitals um for months I mean I'm trying to I forget how many months
probably it was in March when he had the aneurysm and he came home in July
and then he had to go back later for I think another month so it was even when he wasn't
staying in the hospital like when it wasn't inpatient still tons of therapy every day so
our lives became very busy it was just a whirlwind of um you know caring for the kids and getting him
to appointments um I mean I didn't really have a social life anymore and neither did he uh it
really was just all like medical medical medical uh and that's just how I needed to be you know he
you know he obviously this terribly traumatic thing had happened and um we kept hearing that the
first year is the most important in terms of recovery and you know he was very motivated
so we just did absolutely everything that we could in that first year to help him regain
as much independence as possible it was exhausting for both of us yeah oh I bet did you
guys go to church at all like he was the pastor of the he was um so he I think like I don't know
after maybe four or five months he was able to go back we tried to make that a thing that we would
go every Sunday together once he was living at home okay um and so what was it like when you could
when you you you finally could have a conversation just different um yeah
aphasia um you have to speak slowly you have to have a lot of patience um it he could get the
words out but he needs a lot of time to do it so it's not going to be easy for him either
there's a lot going on around him so like you have to kind of pick your moments
and just give it a lot of time and wait for answers and it's very hard for him to it's like
a small portion of his vocabulary came back and it's still like that today so he's trying to use a
very small pool of words to describe a lot of different things um and over the years he got
smarter about that like would use his phone to take pictures so I would know which thing he was
talking about but it was often like a guessing game and it would be frustrating for both of us
because we're already tired because we're running to these appointments all the time and you know
they're really taxing for him just physically and mentally and um you know I was still nursing at
that point and taking care of the two kids on my own and I just remember us being very tired all the
time and uh me feeling guilty almost that I didn't I never felt like I had that time that he needed
to have conversations and I noticed he would often go this isn't aphasia thing too is that um
they'll talk about things that are familiar um and so he would often revert to if I would try
to have a conversation about like something in the future um or maybe the way I'm feeling about
something we might be able to have like a sentence or two about it but then he would revert back to
talking about that he had an aneurysm and that's what it was like and back then you know I
was not awake and I know we've talked about this a lot of times um is is hard to kind of steer him
into meaningful territory conversation wise and so I bet like at what stage did you did you realize
like you know you said you were full of optimism at one stage at what stage did you kind of realize
that like oh shit this might be this like might not get better this might I'm my husband that I
knew is no longer here yeah what's what state and how did you deal with that um I think probably
about five years in when the pandemic hit uh because then a lot of appointments weren't
happening anymore um so we're at home and we did have more time for those conversations um I actually
was was he improving this whole time like I would say for the first year we saw a lot of
improvement like he went from being kind of in a vegetative you know state to uh walking unassisted
which is incredible um and to being able to put sentences together in two languages uh
he's German so that's his that's his first language and um English came back about a week or two later
so uh we saw a lot of improvement in that first year especially and then it kind of
plateaued um and yeah I think during the pandemic was when I really had started to question my faith
more um I think I didn't have much faith in the medical community to get him any further than
they'd already gotten him yeah I yeah uh and so I put all my faith in God to you know I'm like
well if we're gonna see any more progress like he's gonna be the one to do it and in those five years
I had become fascinated with healing and miracles everyone had told me this was a miracle this was
you know because God healed him so I was like this is incredible does does God do this regularly
like why haven't I seen it would he heal other people like can I help other people
get healed if I pray the right way or something I just had no idea so I started reading a ton about it um
and uh a couple years in I started going to like classes about it I really wanted to uh
you know not only help other people experience God's healing but like I was like damn if there's
anything I can do to like you know help my husband in this way like I want to know um so I actually
like became uh I would I would just walk around the neighborhood um like after a year or two with
friends and we'd like pray for people in practice and sometimes we'd see things happen and I still
I don't know how to explain that like I think I would be an atheist by now um that's really the
only thing that's holding me back I'm like how do you explain you know a deaf person suddenly hearing
seemingly as the result of I just prayed for this person um I I don't know yet and it makes me a
little bit angry because I don't want to believe anymore so that's interesting yeah but um I think
were you part of a were you part of a certain drop were you part of a like a pentecostal church like
to be speaking tongues and I'm part of the movement of churches so they're the vineyard okay
they're all over the world um and there's a lot of them here in central Ohio
so I was on staff at a church a couple years in to this whole thing and um just kind of like
overseeing the prayer stuff and uh I was very active like in praying for people
in the church and outside of the church and you know praying for my husband and just had a lot of
hope and then when the pandemic hit I kind of realized I don't know like I had to confront
this reality that like okay I'm seeing things happen on the street in my church um but why isn't
God doing this for my husband like why would he bring him back halfway like why would we
have him live in this state uh why would he do this to our children like I I start to have so
many questions and um I think that was the first time that I started to get discouraged faith-wise
and entertain the possibility that uh if there is a god he might not fix this he might not heal
my husband and we could be in this for you know the next 30 years or so you know until until
so I don't think that I'd thought super seriously about it until until the pandemic
what that means for us yeah you mentioned um just just um uh just pivoting just briefly but
you mentioned that um you don't want to believe in God now um why is that um
I think Christians can be a little weird
well I that's not the reason um I it's so many things it's
I at the moment I don't rule out the possibility of there being some other being out there um
I don't know that I have much evidence that he loves me and my family and cares about us um
I don't know that I want that much to do with him if he does exist uh I I think you know I have
friends who it's interesting when I talk about this with Christians they'll be like
you know when I even mentioned that I'm having a crisis of faith or doubts they'll be like
oh honey God loves you and I think it's such a terrible argument um for believing in him because
I'm like okay I have friends who say that they love me um and they reach out like I know they
love me because they're here like I can talk with them and they are a very present part of my life
like there's there's evidence of that and I I feel pretty removed from God um so I'm like
okay maybe maybe he loves me I don't know but I would expect to see like more evidence of that
I don't know um that's that's one reason like I don't want to as with a friend like I'm probably
going to invest in a friendship as far as they seem to want to invest with me you know I'm not
gonna like take it all the way if they don't seem all that interested and for me it's kind of the
same with God like I spent so many mornings you know I would have my quiet time my devotional
time every morning I would go into my office with my cup of coffee and read the bible and
then I get down on my knees and I would beg him for my family to like change something and I had
come to a point during the pandemic where I was like okay maybe you're not going to change
my husband's condition maybe that's not going to happen but change me like give me more patience
give me more love give me more wisdom about like how to how to help him have the richest life possible
and I just continued to feel kind of like a dumb dumb and overwhelmed and um yeah I just
didn't experience him as a god who answered that prayer after all of my begging and pleading and
attempts I don't know I experienced him as pretty distant uh but also I I really do believe that
love is in action and when I look at I think I've definitely lost faith in the church in the
Christian church I don't know if I've lost faith in God definitely they have lost faith in the church
I've just I've seen so much ugliness and I can honestly say that like my friends who are not believers
um are so much more beautiful than me on the inside like three people so what's that phrase
there's there's no hate like Christian love or something yeah I know I'm so accurate you know
I have a funny story about this where um I was really depressed and um when I lost I was a youth
pastor I lost the job as a youth pastor I was really depressed and um I I uh this one night I um what
what happened it's what it was something like I I my friend had some vodka and I snuck I started
sneaking vodka and like drinking it before bed so I could get to sleep or something yeah um and I'm
there like 19 or 20 or something and um and I had some and then it was the not it was the night of my
staff party anyway I had a few drinks I went out with everyone it was the first time I kind of
went clubbing it wasn't like a huge thing or whatever but I felt horrible afterwards like
it was the staff party but you know a couple people went out for a drink so I just kind of
continued with them I felt so horrible about it I went to church through the um through the the day
whenever it was all the staff I had lunch and I knew all the staff because I was friends with them
all and I was staffed with them once um so I come in and I was going to have lunch with them
and the the senior pastors uh the associate pastor's wife comes up to me and says I heard
you had a big night the other night and I was just like oh yeah you know it wasn't you know my fault
just like oh sure it wasn't your fault like and I was like well you know and she was like really
judgy and I was like man I came here for encouragement because I needed I needed to like kind of you
know making men's mistakes I made and then I go sit on the couch and um and someone else's day and
he's like oh I heard he had a big night the other night and all this stuff I'm like whoa and like
everyone was just judging me so strong and then I was like screw this place I kind of finished my
lunch and then I went back home and everyone was sitting in the garage smoking weed I didn't smoke
weed but that was something and they're like you're awesome man don't like listen to any of those
guys like you're you're cool like and I just like so encouraging and uplifting and I was like
this is so backwards like I went to church for help and I come here and everyone who's smoking
weed is like I left church about a year and a half ago um after a sexual misconduct scandal
I'm still participating in the investigation like over a year later but yeah I haven't talked about
that on TikTok yet can you can you talk about that or not oh yeah um so the thing that really
made me leave I mean I already was frustrated because I I felt like I would go into church
week after week like hey we're not doing well we're exhausted I don't I'm at the end of my rope I
need help with my kids like I want guys in their life like they need they need men around to like
teach them how to do things and have conversations with them and like I need help fixing things at
my house and like I don't know how to you know do this thing on my car and I feel like a dumb
blonde talking about these things but I just didn't know um a lot of things I didn't know and I just
needed help um you know help with him like getting him to appointments getting him to social things
and I felt like I kept going in and telling them like look we are hurting we're we're stretched
too thin I'm seriously depressed this is really hard and just like oh thoughts and prayers thoughts
and prayers thoughts and prayers and like that's that's nice it's not what makes me so angry yeah
but um yeah I was already kind of in that place and then so I was a worship leader at a mega church
for a while um I've loved worship my whole life and uh went to our national conference to um to
just attend and do worship there and um was there with a group of other worship leaders from our church
the one that I have been a part of is kind of like the I think we're the biggest vineyard church in
the world and um kind of a flagship church like a lot of churches would look to us for things and
so like there was a there was a big group of us that went together to participate at this national
conference and um one night at the airbnb I was alone with uh one of the pastors I didn't know
that we were going to be the only ones in the house he knew um but didn't say anything and
like I was outside in the hot tub and he came out and you know we've been friends we were good
friends like I didn't think anything of it I was like oh come on man um and he was like I don't
know I'm like it's fine you sit over there like well you know he said well I'll put out my laptop
and watch a movie I'm like sounds good um but you know he was drinking and over the course of the
night just like kept reaching for me and asking me to snuggle up to him and um I was just like oh
my god like I've got to get out of here um and we went into the house and like he continued and
I just told him like you need to go to bed and I'm I'm going in my room and I locked the door and
went to sleep and like got up a few hours later in left town um went back home but like
you know he was a good friend and when people drink they do stupid things he never touched me
because I was able to you know get away but like I can forgive people for doing dumb things under
the influence of alcohol. A few months went by I know it sounds dumb but like I just knew that if
I said something it would disrupt the balance uh at the church on the worship team and like I said
we were the biggest one in the world and like putting out new albums and things and people are
like watching us and um there were good things happening at the church and I didn't want to
mess everything up with an accusation uh he had like gotten more and more distant and uh I was
doing pop music uh you know at the same time I was doing the worship music and then um they
raised some concerns about my pop music and uh I was off the team then while I went through a
I don't know discernment period or something um and I had to do weird things David like
signed a release that they could talk to my counselor about me um and like my parents and
my friends were like what are you doing and I'm like oh the worship team is everything like church
is everything it's fine they love me like um but you know months went by of me like participating
in their discernment process and I wasn't going to give up doing music I was pursuing sync licensing
at the time like as a means to support my family and the you know the months went by and like
there was still no plan to bring me back into the fold kind of and I hadn't done anything terribly
wrong and I kept hearing you know you lack discernment you lack discernment you lack discernment
and one day I just blew up and I was like oh you want to talk about lacking discernment
let me tell you this um and I was just venting to a friend but then he went and reported what
I'd said what happened and then they launched an investigation and um like I said I could forgive
you know people people do dumb things when they're drinking um but when he was confronted by our pastors
uh he said that it wasn't true that I made it up and I didn't have evidence and
that was the breaking point for me like okay this pastor who's supposed to represent Jesus to me
who's supposed to care for me and my family is throwing me under the bus to save his reputation
to save his name to save his job um I can't do this anymore uh
like how can you go into church week after week and be led by someone who you know is a liar who
you know tried to take advantage of you um I just couldn't do it uh left and I didn't know if I'd
come back I thought maybe I'll go to another church um I just knew that like so much had happened in
our lives over the past few years and the church had consistently not been a place of refuge for
us and support and um I was just like okay this isn't it like we're dying over here
and I need to figure our lives out kind of so yeah it's been a year and a half since then and
the investigation has stalled um because I don't know the church has issues with
some things in the final report and so now they're they've got their lawyers talking to each
I don't it's just messy and I don't know if it will ever be resolved and at this point I'm like
it doesn't affect my daily life anymore you guys do what you're going to do like I've decided for
myself that I don't want to be a part of that um and I'm going to focus on my kids and things that
do affect my day today wow that's um well I'm sorry that you you went through that that's that
sounds um it's it's so it's it's hard because you this is this is the problem because there are
so many people who are in these positions of like power and it's like there's there's a difference
between like um you know someone coming on to you at a bar versus like your boss coming on to you
like that what your boss coming on to you is an appropriate because they hold like a position of
power and stuff but it's just when when it's mixed with the religion and it's it's um yeah it's it's
it's more yeah it's a sinister definitely a sinister um I think what one of the um one of the
things that uh one of the reasons I said well the reason I started this broadcast is I interviewed
my friend who um was in a similar situation to you where um in not actually not similar at all but
similar in one regard in that he was uh I met him in ministry college and he was gay um he's
been gay his whole life and he was but he was closeted for 45 years and he prayed countless
sleep to remove this thing from him and uh to from remove the gay and you know after 45 years it
wasn't working and he was considering suicide and and uh and I I at the time I realized like oh
shit like what if the church gives up on the doctrine of like being gay is bad like they gave
up on like women having to wear head scarfs when they pray or like they give up on all these other
things that are in the bible in the new testament that we just like kind of like oh that was for a
time like what if the church does that and he's wasted his entire life uh and so we had a conversation
um he's out now and he's in a long-term relationship and he's like happy uh but it's like you know and
I was I still say that he would call himself a christian I think but he's um that he's been
very hurt by the church um but just the shit that he went through the church uh it was just
it was beyond it was beyond uh it was it was disgusting um and for me that was a big a big
thing that made me realize like the church isn't a force for good uh for sure regardless of the
question whether or not god god exists I think the church causes a lot of harm to people um
um so yeah so but he was in the same spot as you where he was praying all the time just
trying like what like help me help me help me like warring out his heart like crying and all
that stuff and uh yeah um so when uh so eventually you guys got divorced right uh
he laid us up to that part of the story um yeah um
gosh so kind of over the years the climate in our household had just changed like between he and
you know my husband and my ex-husband and I it just it wasn't like a marriage relationship anymore
I was very much his caregiver um and we were friendly like uh but
it was really difficult seeing the toll that it took on our kids um just kind of not knowing
what they could ever expect from him uh he slept a lot and you know wasn't a super active part of
their lives anymore like he's a wonderful person and when he's awake he's like the warmest kindest
guy you know never like angry or threatening or anything like that you know I would never worry
about the safety of our kids um but I wouldn't say that he was very present in their lives and
you know I would see them being sad about that and also being confused when he would have these
you know periods of like he would get obsessive about things um like a carpet that had a spot
on it or you know the pins in the junk drawer there was one night where he realized he didn't
have caps on them and drove him nuts and like wanted to get the whole family involved like
looking for the caps for these pins and you know it was always something like that and
I can see it freaking the kids out um and
I felt like you know the solution there is not to just divorce him and ship him off somewhere
else where he's not my problem that solution is to find him the quality of care that he needs
to overcome those episodes right and I was so stretched then at that point in our lives by
I mean bringing up the kids like he's there but I'm a functionally single mom at that point
you know if they need to be taken somewhere they need to have conversations you know I'm
doing all that on my own um and I'm trying to back then you know support us financially um
I was just working really late hours early mornings um and then on top of that I'm a part of
you know participating in this misconduct investigation and it didn't have much support
like I had my my parents uh and my brother but like had just lost my entire community like
you know they didn't all follow me from church they you know they're like I don't know Kim's
not here anymore so that's that hurt you know I people who you think are your closest dearest
friends and just it's weird when you leave a church how you don't realize how
how much that binds you to other people you think that the friendship is
capable of existing I mean that's what I hope oh yeah but it just doesn't seem to be the case um
Nick um one of how um one of the deep drink uh guests before uh Nicole she went from being
a pastor to being a porn star I want to watch that one I saw and we uh and she's been on the uh
purity culture panel which I recommend and and and stuff as well but she like lost like she went
from like being really good friends with these people like thinking they were her best friends to
like they refusing to talk like no no contact yeah what like yeah it's very conditional you know it's
very uh hmm for sure yeah I mean I was the lowest I'd ever been in my life and you know was even
having thoughts of suicide because I felt like I was failing everyone in my family like in taking
care of him in the way that he really needed it would have meant that I wasn't able to take care
of my kids if I just focus on my kids then he's the one who's getting the short end of the stick
and not getting the care that he needs and you know I'm not I'm not even thinking about myself
in that equation like that's just me taking care of them like what about taking care of me so that
I can do any of this for the long term um and so it just seemed like us being married and living in
the same house together we were all you know the four of us just slowly deteriorating together and
I started to remember like conversations that we'd had before the stroke and just
man he was such a great husband he was such a great father he loved us and not that he didn't
love us afterward he's absolutely did but like he was one of the most selfless people I ever met
and because we'd had conversations about this I knew that he would have wanted us he said that
to me before like if anything happens to me I would want you to move on and for you and the kids
to have the best life possible the most normal life possible and I kind of ignored that for years
because I was like no way I can't what I can't abandon him you know and I've been accused a lot
over the past you know a couple months as I've opened up about this on social media
abandoning my disabled husband when he was at need of me most and it's just not true like
we were together for seven years after his aneurysm you know got him back to a very independent
state but it just was never the same afterward and none of us were really getting what we needed
none of us were really happy and you know I started to wonder if
letting him go was the best thing for him because you know he I could never imagine
putting him in some facility just like dumping him somewhere like that I could never have done
that but he has an amazing family in Germany you know his sister's his mother who is a retired
doctor he has friends there that he's known his whole life and they're all faithful people you
know who can support that that thing that's so important to him and so I started to wonder if
that was the best situation for him if loving and honoring him you know till death to his
apartment letting him go into a situation that is not what we would have wanted when we set out on
this thing but that it was what he needed I I just started to feel so wrong so guilty about denying
him services and attention that he really needed because I just couldn't do it what if there are
people who can do it like and they want to do it like I have that so I I opened up about that to
my parents and to his mom and his sisters and we started to have some conversations about that
um and all of us together you know decided that that's the that that's what we wanted to do that
the best thing for him was to go back to Germany and live with his sister and let his mom kind of
take on that carry of a role and let me kind of recover and go to counseling and be there for the
kids in a way that I haven't been able to be there for them for the you know seven years
so yeah we we separated last year he he moved in the fall and he's doing he's doing great
we're still in contact he calls us every week tries to talk to the kids most weekends
and we're going to go visit in a couple months uh and uh yeah our divorce became official in May
so we're officially divorced now but I was recent yeah it's very recent um I first
tiktok that blew up I was just I had like 200 followers at that point and I was just kind of
trying to process life with people and was like I got divorced today from a really amazing first
look at the next one like millions of people like what happened
very good um wow yeah but um yeah it's been recent and I feel like we're all still processing but I
am confident like every time I pick up the phone and talk to him and hear how he's doing that like
we made the right decision um you know the kids are opening up more and like I can just tell that
they feel more at home and settled and comfortable and like he's excited when I talk to him about
the things that he's getting to do over there um I feel rested for the first long time and like I
just have margin for things I didn't have margin for before um and uh yeah I like to frame it as
we're still a family um we're just a different kind of family our relationship status is has
changed but that doesn't mean that we're not a regular part of each other's lives
doesn't you know love each other anymore yeah wow what a what an incredible like journey that you've
been through and you know tragic and and um it seems like you've made the best of a very bad
situation uh so yeah geez so um so I guess um I'm kind of interested in in how like now looking
back like how has this all affected your faith um on the broadest broadest spectrum of things
um well first of all I don't think our current situation would have ever happened like if I
hadn't left church because in the Christian world it's so ingrained in you from a young age that
you know you get married you stay married unless someone's you know something crazy happens then
maybe but like uh I don't think I would have even dared to consider that possibility um and that
in and of itself is like if I were still like a totally committed and invested Christian what
would that mean for us like that would still all be miserable and not getting what we need
because God said um and if God said then like what does that say about him um and how he loves us
it's it's really shaken me um when you say um you said before um that one of the last things
that like kind of like holding you holding you in the perspective that there is a god is the miracles
that you've seen um can we talk a little bit about that sure what uh what's I guess what's the most um
what's the most impressive miracle that you've seen yeah I talked about that one on tiktok
recently there was a a younger guy um who had cancer in his throat and it had spread up to
his ear um and he had lost hearing uh in his ear as a result and he also had trouble with his
speech like he had to take medication um to help him be able to get words out on some days he still
couldn't uh but we prayed for his ear um and the first time it didn't take which was like a common
thing um and then we were taught to like well did you pray again as long as they're willing
you know you pray again and I think it was was this was this out on the street yeah yeah yeah yeah
okay um yeah and then he he suddenly could hear and he was absolutely shocked and we were absolutely
shocked which I I feel like if you really believe in miracles you shouldn't be shocked with that kind
of things happening in perspective but I don't know we were pretty surprised um maybe we didn't have
much faith in ourselves but um that was probably the most shocking one um there was another one
with a woman uh it's a homeless woman who couldn't see and uh I didn't pray for her but a couple
of the other guys did and then she was like she could see the it was like blurry like her vision
came back but blurry and she could see signs across the street but couldn't read them yet so
they prayed for her again and then it became like the words on the signs became more clear and she
could see colors and um I think she was a bit uh out of her mind and so the guys were like is she
messing with us like is this real and then um I don't know they took her across the street to
buy her a coffee or something and the waitress came out um and I guess the waitress knew she was
blind and they had some interaction uh where you know she was describing the waitress or
somebody it was cleared in that conversation that she actually could see and so you know
things like that and that's a pretty common thing like in the vineyard in vineyard churches like
we were always very big about like expecting miracles and praying for people not getting
crazy with it not like declaring you know um but just very normal simple short prayers for people
and kind of being the pressure on god to do something never telling people oh you weren't
healed because you didn't have enough faith or any crap like that but um yeah I don't I don't
know how to how to reconcile those things um that started to like ask that question and
yeah it's a it's a big question hey I had similar I had similar um thoughts when I was
deconstructing my faith um like um I guess the question that I I asked myself was
if someone of a different religion had a similar experience would that be evidence of their religion
like uh what would you say is it something like that so if like you saw a Buddhist healer heal
someone or a Hindu healer heal someone or something like that um what would you say about
that like what would what would you think I don't know
I don't know what I would be like cool that rocks go for them like that would that would be my natural
response um trying to explain it because it's like every religion you know the big one they're
like oh no it's our god you're this isn't real yeah yeah yeah the rest is made up nonsense but my god
it's real yeah yeah I don't know man and I feel like that's gonna be the answer is just I don't
know I was having lunch with um an atheist friend of mine last week and I was talking to him about
this uh he's kind of become my go-to in these situations and and I was like what would you
say it like how would you explain the miracles and he's like I don't know I'm like that's kind of cool
okay I don't I think that's what faith is like if you can explain it and give all this evidence
and like then why is it faith it's just following the facts um but I don't I don't know if I have
enough faith for that I don't know yeah it's like well it's like um if you this is how I view it
it's like if you if we don't have an answer yet that's the answer like that that's all we can say
like yeah um you get comfortable with saying I don't know how that happens like think about
some like really well like well studied things like um uh optical illusions like how can we
see something that tricks our brain in that way that's that's like a really bizarre thing
to happen but we accept like oh yeah optical illusion there's nothing spiritual about an
optical illusion there's nothing religious about them but you show that to someone you know 500
years ago and they might they might think there's something you know going on but which was showing
it to you so you kind of primed to to kind of put the context with it or you know you see people
are at the Taylor Swift concerts lately and they're like literally talking about having
spiritual experiences at these Taylor Swift concerts and it's like well you know if that was
a religious concert almost everyone would be having you know these experiences emotional
illusions are there such a thing you know can we have you know experiences like that and um
have you seen um the documentary uh by Darren Brown called miracles for sale
no but someone just told me about it and I wrote it down that's uh I um I wonder can I show you
a clip from that I hope doesn't demonize my channel but I can show you a quick clip if that if that
works okay all right let me um it's uh this I remember this kind of blew me away when I first
watched it so he gets so the context is he gets someone to um who's who's he fakes this preacher
and he gets them to move into the into the faith healings like realm and to preach and to perform
miracles but they're all just not miracles um and so this is him doing street preaching uh
street healings um in the uh in in the wild as you say so I'll just um I hope I'll show you this clip
I hope it works can you hear it yeah
subjective thing whether it's adrenaline of a big show or just somebody telling them with enough
confidence that the pain has gone there are many videos belonging of street faith healers supposed
to be curing the sick so on a cold Dallas morning I take our former scuba diver out to
see if he can do the same this will be more of a challenge than working with a receptive
congregation but I think Nathan's ready to do it any almond tell me about it right now
pastor james you got any pains have you got any pains yeah pain in my leg I started right
here I said it was gonna pain I had to wrap it in and always want to get cold so you got a plate in
there you got a plate yes the first person we find is in persistent pain from a metal plate in
his leg hurts a lot right so when you get up I bet when you get up from a chair or from here
you got to push yourself up here I was worried when you were younger you just sprung up right
yeah right I'm gonna put my hands on your leg okay I don't want you to think about the pain you're
in right now okay and that's a 10 okay Nathan knows the techniques this is his moment of truth
dear lord this man's in his leg is causing so much pain that plate's so cold you're warming up right
now would you warming it up right now you feel the man shaking in your car and you feel the man
shaking in your car lord you get that pain right out get that cold right out you get that
feeling yes what's it like what does it feel like what can I say it's a tailored feeling in my leg
stand right up stand right up you don't have to push up you don't see you don't have to push up
this time right remember we're talking about you have to push up the man is very moved and staggered
that his pain has gone you told me that pain was a 10 before right yes sir okay what's that pain in
that left leg right now it could reduce hasn't it that pain zero high five
you got any aches and pains not what you're back lower back so I want you to remember what
we're gonna remember right now is how bad that pain is right now imagine that's a level 10 okay
lord for the prayer of your Holy Spirit pass through this man that's when you go on so this
man can move freely amen I can feel that heat can you feel that because I feel there's a lot of
heat it's all here stand up for me so it's a 10 before right so it's a 10 so what is it now
three three two can you touch your toes you do that so easily did you do that before probably
no you couldn't do that before no I had a car wreck like two months ago you were in a car wreck
two months ago and you've had a pain in your back since then what did it feel like it's gone
thank you god these people aren't really being healed but they are experienced on pain relief
brought about by suggestion Nathan heightens their expectation and they respond accordingly
their minds at least for a while not feeling any pain put your hand on top of mine it works on
every single volunteer can you feel that because I can feel something happen there
yeah what we're going to do extend your legs feet into my hands even tries the old leg lengthening
routine so this leg is quite inch can you see that difference telling people their problems are
caused by having one leg shorter than the other and then manipulating a shoe to create the illusion
that a leg is lengthened stand up stand up walk a favorite trick performed by healers who claim
that it's real Jesus is healed you right afterwards we tell all the people Nathan healed the true
nature of what we're doing this guy isn't really a faith healer we carry on finding more people
and keep getting the same positive results so with a 100 success rate pastor james has healed
astonished at how effortless it is yeah this is like my past life man
it's incredible right yeah yeah it's incredible um nothing there is like super amazing like
do you know a few people like oh my leg doesn't soar anymore but um there's a there's a fantastic
website called um why doesn't god heal amputees dot com and it's a fantastic look at this because
it's like you hear healings about like you know people um you know receiving sight or
receiving hearing again but we never see someone's like leg grow back or conjoined to inseparate
something that should be perfectly easy for an all-powerful all-loving god but just doesn't
seem to happen yeah what do you think about um the problem of suffering and the problem of uh
problem of evil sure um i used to think um that it was caused by
people uh or satan himself because the bible does say that he has legitimate power on the earth
and so i would always attribute it to that i mean before my husband stroke i didn't think
about it that much honestly afterward i really wanted to know um because how can you pray
for healing for someone to god if god's the one who struck them down with whatever it is right
so i had to know that god wanted their healing that he was as much for it as you know i was or
they were um so i was always like okay our own sin our own choices led to this broken world that
we live in um or you know satan attacked someone and that's why bad things happen um god gave us
free will and uh as much as he would like to intervene he doesn't because until jesus comes
back and makes everything right again this is kind of the world that we've created um so
that's how i processed it for a long time as recently as like a few months ago i read this book
i think it's just called free willed by sam harris you know sam oh yeah yeah yeah yeah i have a big
fan yeah um i i hit his book waking waking up if you're if you're wanting to still have some sort of
a spiritual-esque feeling or like well like his book waking up was really helpful to me
yeah that's yeah that actually goes into the brain that goes into the brain thing
that goes through i would probably love it then yeah um i read his book on free will and you know
he talks about i don't have the studies here but i can send them to if you want to link them in
show notes or something about it just how you know if you hook someone up to electrodes uh
that the the researchers they can tell that you've made a decision before you are aware that you've
made a decision um you know that you decide to like get up or like go take a drink or whatever it is and
that really started poking at my free will theodicy worldview um because you know what a free will
doesn't exist what if it's not what if that's not a thing what does that mean for you know if god's
real and he's up there and it's just kind of like being a gentleman in some weird roundabout way by
letting us do what we want to do um yeah i well the this is this actually gets the biggest problem
with i think this whole conversation is is we haven't got an answer to consciousness right
yet right like we don't know what consciousness even really is
except it seems to be it seems to start in the brain that's what we think but we don't even
know that like for sure like i think you can make educated guesses but um yeah i mean i'll
argue with people about this um whatever a few friends about this all the time but the like so
the way i view things is like if i drive a driver's stake through my head i'm going to stop living
like my conscious experience will stop if i take value i'll calm down if i take you know
some sort of stimulant i'll i'll become more awake like there's things like this there's
chemical there's chemical interactions happening inside my brain and affects it affects my
conscious experience um and so the way i kind of see things is like like um i see us living in
kind of a deterministic universe for the most part so like imagine there's a rock and and and
there's a on a hill and push this rock down the hill if you know every variable you know the
velocity the um the gravel the friction the the wind everything you can predict with 100%
certainty exactly where that rock is going to land 100% of the time and you can run the next
experiment a billion times over and it would land in the same spot i think that our brains
are just a much more complicated version of a rock and a hill and i believe that the universe
is a much more complicated version of a rock and a hill like so like you know uh if i experience
something that i don't like i'll usually because you know because of my chemistry my brain chemistry
i'll try and remove myself from that situation like these are just these are just things that
that we do but so yeah it gets really interesting because then you're like well how this is the
thing that really spun me out and maybe i can get your thoughts on it is is like did adam and
eve have free will like the bible says that they did but were they confined by their brain chemistry
like were they were they uh trapped in by their brain chemistry like could god have could god have
made their brains different in a way that they chose not to eat the fruit yeah but you've done
that and like and if and because because it seems that like if god knew ahead of time that
the conditions of out of the garden of Eden and the conditions of their brains and the condition
like every condition you know this rock and the hill that we universe every condition would
lead to the meeting the fruit because he's omni omniscient omniscient yeah yeah he's omniscient
so he knows everything so if he knows the future and he still chose to create them the way that they
are how did they have any choice in the matter they couldn't have had any choice right like
like god could never be surprised like god like when they ate the fruit god was never like whoa
but at the same time at the same time god's walking through the garden and he's like
where are you i can't find you so like he can't be omniscient as well so it's like it's very it's
you know this gets really deep into the theology and uh bible history means but
yeah what do you what are your thoughts on free will and feminism like where are you at with the
left i don't know i'm so new to it um i feel like i'm still just processing the very fact that we
might not absolutely yeah and just beginning to wait into like the implications of that
yeah on many levels yeah so i don't think i have a good answer i i have heard you know as far as the
adamany thing goes that i know that there are some people who um are like well that that didn't
really happen like that's just like a a full tale of something you know to talk about the way that
the earth created and some people are like oh no it absolutely happened i i don't know but absolutely
understand what you're saying about yeah why and that again that might be one of those things where
i'm just like i don't know i don't know why he's a butt head that's why there's um the there's
actually i think you'd really enjoy um an episode of what coming up with uh dr. matthew mongol and
there's an episode i've already done with dr. josh bowman and they talk about the the influences in
the hebrew bible so like you think about like you know dr. josh he ran this um he used to be a pastor
and he um was running this group for people who were trying to learn more about the bible
and uh he asked them he said you know who's the bible experts here and people raised their hands
and he said okay he said what scripture is this where is it what book is it in and he read a scripture
and everyone said it's in ezekiel okay what you know read another scripture what what where's
this story it's in matthew and people were reading the hand and then he read out something and said
where's this and they said that's the story of Noah and he said actually that's not that's the
pre that's the epic of gilgamesh so that's this pre-bible that's like 1200 years pre the bible
and it has like a giant flood and and um you know and a dove going out and collecting the like it has
the it's the whole it's the whole thing but it's actually more interesting because what what it's
actually this is what drosh told me uh is the it's a polemic against mesopotamian civilization so
when the um when israel was in captivity by the babeloneans they had this like this like idea of
like perfect mesopotamian society this like you know um and uh and it's all towards civilization
and it's all towards like you know building this um amazing um thing what the there's a theory and
it's pretty well accepted that the what the israelites were doing is they were like okay well
we're gonna write our own story but we're gonna flip everything so like they write they rewrite the
story of the epic of gilgamesh but about noah and everything in the first uh primal evil history
in genesis is all about like um moving away from civilization so abraham takes and takes um you
know away from sodam and gamora who got destroyed and he lives in tents throughout his days and
it ends at the tower of babel when god's like this city is evil and destroys it you know like
destroyed and cast everyone so it's like it's a polemic it was like a form of poetry that the
israelites who were in captivity by the babeloneans used to deal with the fact that they're like no screw
these mesopotamians like we've got our own story and our own thing and so like it becomes so much
more interesting and people are gonna fact check me i might have got a lot of that wrong but if you
go watch the episode it's a long time so let's do that episode but it's it's just cool to see that um
yeah it's yeah it's the somerian flood uh yeah that's fascinating but yeah when you look in look
at the like the history behind a lot of these bible stories it's like for me to help me i guess
let go of a lot of them as like truth like like sodam and even stuff like that um like learning
about evolution like do you uh what do you do you believe in evolution or you got faults about
evolution or um i probably would have fallen into the camp of like yes evolution is real and that
like it was overseen by god or something yeah yeah yeah that's theistic evolution yeah that's
yeah yeah yeah yeah interesting um yeah so like learning about all that just like kind of blew
my mind um yeah um i want to quickly before we before we kind of wrap up i do have some
questions for you but before we wrap up i want to shout out your your stuff so you have um an
amazing singing career and amazing um so you're on Spotify um and i love good kid is an amazing song
and friendly fire they're two of my favorite songs um but definitely recommend like the
links in the description go check out um you know you got a tiktok you've got youtube you've
got like all your links are there like you bet definitely on Spotify apple music go check out
your songs and um obviously rate them five stars i can even rate songs but anyway listen they're
good stuff it's trust me they're good stuff and i was wondering if you could tell us a little bit
about thunderstruck oh sure yeah so uh my tiktok blew up there were a lot of people who you know
just judged me um but uh i was able to ignore most of that because my inboxes were flooded by
people who were like oh my gosh i have been in such a similar situation and i felt so alone in it
and i didn't know who to talk to who to go to for you know advice um no one really understands
and so i was like i i wanted to make a place for people to connect um just to help them find each
other more quickly because you're very short on time when you're in you know those traumatic
situations um so i made this website uh and i'm slowly going through all my dms right now and
like inviting people to join the group it's it's just a free online community that i've created
for people in crisis to talk to each other is basically it you know we post in there about
books we found helpful we have a couple chats going there's a section about faith um you know
just the impact that crisis has on that and uh we we share memes we have a section dedicated to
our support animals it's it's it's great a lot of fun yeah so did you make that yourself or did you
like um so you did so do you did you web design like yeah i think if i hadn't become a musician
i would have been a graphic designer i love it so much so yeah i do i do all my own graphic stuff
that's that's great and of course um it looks awesome and of course go follow uh your tiktok
which is just full of amazing um amazing clips especially i've just found the one it's the one
that kind of blew up 17 million is this one right there 17 million that's
to the next morning and i was like what is happening person today we were together for 18
years and i love my biggest that's something sorry but yeah that's some incredible um so that
what were we saying that was the one you did the morning of um i was the one i did i recorded it
uh the day we the day our divorce was finalized and then uh went to bed and the next morning
woke up and like millions of people had watched it and were asking what happened i was like oh shoot
i guess i better tell the rest of the story that's uh that's um that's incredible well thank you um so
much for coming on it's been awesome chatting to you i'd love to stay in touch and um we know we've
connected on instagram and and it'd be good to stay in touch and i'll learn more about um your
your kind of um your deconstruction process regardless of you know um i'm not gonna stop
being friends with you if you become a um mistake christian or something like i don't i don't care
for the fact some of my some of my you know i me and michael jones of inspiring philosophy we
text all the time but he's um he's a really hardcore apologist or christian um uh so um
so yeah um i'm not like some um i know some uh i'm not like the old church people is what i'm
saying um but yeah i'll be really interested really interested to hear what uh where you where you
kind of like as you explore these ideas um it's just super interesting um for me so i have a
couple of quick questions that i haven't done for a while but i thought i'd ran out this interview
with them um that's okay i don't know you haven't seen many episodes you probably haven't heard of these
um but um so first question is um what is the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe
in oh my gosh look at you go
that i don't believe in yeah
i don't know man um
i can i can i say atheism is that a religion
i don't know i'm not gonna let you do that so many people and i'm not even gonna let you say
buddhism uh it's gonna be a theistic religion it's gonna have a god
i think any religion that has multiple gods because i'm just like people fight so much
and can't even get along like how how i just don't believe i don't buy it yeah
that's cool so um regarding i guess um oh this this question this question is gonna be hard because
okay um regarding your christian faith now or like where you're kind of at what if anything
would change your mind so that's the question i normally ask what would get you to go you know
what i don't believe in god at all yeah someone give me a a scientific explanation for um
i feel like i have a scientific explanation for the sensation of the holy spirit um but
yeah what about the the healings and the miracles that can be like verified by a doctor
if someone could explain that to me i'd be out okay um i know that um i don't know why i started
launching into an answer for that but um have you heard of that there's a miracle shrine in um in
somewhere and i think it's the uk it's like people go there and there's like a statue of
mary and they put him in the pool and people get healed like thousands of people go uh
you know this so it is um what's it called um mary statue healing it's it's like famous like uh
wow go where is it someone help me help me uh of the lord's the lord's healing so it's this
this thing and we should let me just share so people go here and they they get um they get healed
and the catholic church actually will will say oh they'll actually say yeah this was an official
healing um and you know and they'll actually they'll they'll say there's a bit more this one says
a 70 um but if you run the numbers like on how many people go versus how many people have been
certified the healed it's exactly the same as um spontaneous remission so like you know how like
you know how there's like you know one in a million people will just spontaneously like
their their cancer will just dissolve and go away or like some like there's just there's
spontaneous remission or the placebo effect it's like perfectly in line with how many people go and
how many like the healings there are there's it's it's exactly the same number so that's um and of
course probably as a christian you did you believe that mary would heal people like i didn't i would
be like no i'm like yeah i was like no but you know people go here and they and they get they
receive these healings um the same with um there's this guy called sathrasai baba and he talks he
talks um this is what uh sam harris talks about a lot he had a million people attend his birthday
he had he had those videos of him performing miracles he's had four people who are raised from
the dead uh it's filmed it's there's this peak we can talk to now he said yes i was raised by the
dead by this person like there but we don't we don't accept that and this is the same way like
why so why would you accept the testimonies of um of jesus and his disciples so anyway sorry for
maybe i am a athiast evangelist or something maybe you are david no i'm so here for it i i love
talking about this stuff thank you if you if you want um i tell you some good books to read
my favorite god is not great by christopher hitchens you got like a little notepad well i i i'm a
christopher hitchens fan oh awesome same same but that book um is the the audio version on youtube
for free and he reads it and it's just incredible same as waking up waking up so free read by sam
harris on youtube um uh yeah that's that's a fantastic book and if you read anything if you're
into bible history barb ermann anything by barb ermann is incredible it's a really easy
he's read he's written 32 books or something and like eight of them in new york times by cellars
he's like one of the biggest bible scholars in the world and um he uh he talks about there's
like misquoting jesus lost christianity is like if in fact go away and um tell me all this stuff
go away and watch my video called um christianity's lost diversity and that goes into like some of the
stuff that barb ermann talks about and it is just like it's only like 20 minutes long it's like
it's like clips from a deep drinks episode but watch that and like i'll be surprised if you're
not i'm still amazed i still watch it and i'm like oh my god this is amazing um okay okay um so
so what that was what if anything could change your mind okay so what would what if anything
could change your mind about and get you to believe in god full wholeheartedly again
um i think if my ex went back to if you just woke up one morning and was exactly how he was before
that would blow my mind yeah yeah um for sure i mean i'm what you've gone through is just um
it's incredibly painful um okay um
yeah all right well last question um if you could have chosen afterlife
and it would become true both the good and the bad for everyone um what would you choose
hmm man i would choose an afterlife like make it up myself um like i guess yeah i guess no i mean
like more um like from a like for religious perspective when you choose like the christian
heaven and hell um or like the different interpretations so like a lot of people
believe that the christian hell is pretty um disgusting and so they'll they'll think of it as
like uh annihilation theory so like you just there's no hell like you're not burning for
eternity but you just annihilated but what would you choose if you choose something or like reincarnation
or um enlightenment or something like that or if you don't know enough about that stuff let's
i don't know a ton reincarnation sounds cool i don't i was talking about this with a friend
last week is that like the idea of heaven the christian heaven um i've always been a little
turned off by because like it talks about how we'll just worship god forever and you know as a
worship leader i'm like i don't want to do that i maybe i don't have the right idea about it but
it just sounds bad um yeah i would want to do other things too i don't know um but i don't know i love
just like in life i love the idea of failures only failure if you don't learn something from it
and try again and i love the idea of like being able to try again even as different as a different
being so i guess maybe that one yeah i kind of like that as well like um like uh the buddhist
interpretation of like you just you just try again and try again and try again until you reach
enlightenment um and uh there are some sex of buddhism where they they have like a um
like they have a hell but the hell is temporary it's like you go there to burn off your karma
if you couldn't do it in the infinite amount of lifetimes or whatever and then you become
enlightened that way um but it's kind of like a nice thing it's like a nice version of hell i guess
or another one is uh like have you seen rick and morty not to sound like that guy but um
there's this episode where um you know there it's like a whole life that someone lives and then
like he takes off his glasses and he's like in like an alien arcade and this whole life is just
like a simulation that's cool yeah okay well thank you so much for coming on guys um all
kim's links are in the description it's been awesome talking to you um and thank you so much
for coming on is anything you'd like to say before we leave thank you that's what i'd like to say
oh my gosh it's just been so fascinating and wonderful to to share this time with you i really
appreciate you bringing me on and telling me your thoughts and i have i have so much homework to do
well um i'd love to let me know uh how they're going um and if you have we'll say in touch i'm
sure um i'm gonna play an outro but you stick around because we can chat in the back room but
i'll talk to you everyone again see you guys soon bye
you
