Christianity began as a small movement within Judaism in the first century AD
and rapidly grew into a major world religion. Early Christianity was far from unified,
and there were many competing beliefs and practices within the movement.
To start off this conversation, I think one way to look at it is the way we see Mormons
and Catholics today as being so far apart from each other. We look at them like opposites,
but in reality, Mormons and Catholics have more in common than early Christians do.
They at least believe the same thing about Jesus.
You are about to learn a history of Christianity that is rarely taught by the church
and often withheld from ministry college graduates. This history encompasses Christianity's rich
and diverse past. The church's perspective is that Jesus taught 12 disciples. He died on the
cross and resurrected and then told them to go out to the ends of the earth and teach this message.
And they all took that message and taught everybody in the Roman Empire. They were persecuted
for so many years and there were martyrs and it was poor Christians for 200 years. And then
magically, Constantine gets converted. And there's only one line from Constantine to Jesus. It's
just perfect. There's nothing else. That's what you hear from the church. But in reality,
it's completely different. The reality is we have no idea what Jesus said.
We don't know what his actual beliefs, what his actual sayings were.
We don't know if there was 12 disciples. We don't know any of that.
Working out what Jesus may have actually said and done has been the task of textual critics
since at least the Nicene Council in 325 AD. A great illustration of this problem is something
uncovered in the Dead Sea Scrolls. One of the most famous things that is attributed to Jesus
as the Sermon on the Mount, the Beatitudes, they're in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Really? The Dead Sea Scrolls are a collection of Jewish texts that were discovered in the
mid-20th century in the vicinity of the Dead Sea in Israel. They are comprised of over 900
documents including religious texts, historical records, and personal letters that date back
to the Second Temple period of Jewish history from the 3rd century BCE to the 1st century CE.
These texts provide a glimpse into the religious beliefs and practices of the Jewish people
during this time and shed light on the development of Judaism and the roots of Christianity.
The discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls has been hailed as one of the greatest archaeological
finds of the 20th century and has greatly expanded our knowledge of the ancient world
and its religious traditions. Sorry, wait, hang on, I'm just trying to,
how much whiskey have I drunk? Did I just heard you, so you're saying that
one of the most famous preachers by Jesus, there's record of that before Jesus' time?
Yes.
No.
Yeah.
Really?
I need to qualify that a little bit in that it's not a, like it's not a carbon copy. When you read the
the Hebrew collection, which is in the manuscript is called 4Q, which means it came from K-4,
4Q Beatitudes. I think it helps us to understand Jesus quite a bit, but it certainly helps us
to understand that the people who wrote and put together the New Testament were drawing from Jewish
source material, like they were right there within the guts of early Judaism.
I didn't learn that in ministry college.
What? No. Really? I'm shocked, I tell you.
In the synopsis of Epic, Tragedy and the Gospels, Professor Dennis R. MacDonald argues that not
just the sayings but stories about Jesus have distinct parallels to older myths and poetry.
And in the story, you have this lawless naked cannibal who's crazy, who's eating people,
and you have Cersei, who converts or changes through a potion, soldiers into pigs. Now,
I just wanted to paint this. Check this out. This is connections. This is one of the strongest
ones. This is why some of them are less powerful. This one, without a doubt, bro, you cannot walk
away and think there's not something going on. And let me tease you one more time before we
read these parallels, okay? That's why!
That's why!
That's why!
Tufts is about to be presented this information live on MythVisionSoon.
Dude, we have scholars. Look, see, it's such hot information that Neil's camera...
It's Neil's camera...
Shit!
His shit! What's that? This, man! I can't handle the heat!
Odysseus and crew sell to the land of the Cyclops, end of Cersei.
Jesus and his disciples sell to the region of the garrisons.
Not pot, right there, bro. Think about this. Sell to the land of the garrisons?
Like, dude, the lake of Galilee is not that big. We were on it. I mean, it's big for a lake.
You could see all the way across it.
You could see everything. You got a sell to the land of. It ain't like that, bro.
It ain't like that. So, this is clearly riffing off of the earlier Mediterranean
sea narratives that are found in the Odyssey, the Iliad, or any other Greek
literature, the Virgil's Iliad, the Aeneid, all of that.
Odysseus and crew disembarked. You've got this Greek term here for disembarked.
Jesus and his disciples disembarked. And the Greek is very similar of them disembarking, okay?
They encountered a savage lawless giant who lived in a cave.
They encountered a savage lawless demoniac who lived amongst the caves.
Polyphemus usually was depicted nude. In any art you see, for example,
you see up here, he's nude, okay? And in all the Greek art, he's nude.
The demoniac was nude in the Gospel of Mark. Cersei recognized Odysseus and asked him not
to harm her. The demoniac recognized Jesus and asked him not to harm him.
You, by God, do not torment me. They beg Jesus. The giant asked Odysseus his name.
Jesus asked the demoniac his name. Odysseus answered, nobody is my name.
The demoniac answered, Legion is my name. Many is my name, right? A large army.
Notice they're soldiers, right? A legion is soldiers. Cersei turns soldiers into swine.
And in the same narrative, you have swine that the demons, the legion, are going into.
Anyway, Odysseus subdued the giant with violence and trickery. Cersei's magic turned Odysseus's
soldiers into swine. Jesus subdued about 2,000 demons with his divine power and sent them into
the swine and then drove the swine into the lake. Polyphemus, the shepherd, called out to his
neighbors. The swine herds called their neighbors in the Gospels. Cyclops came to the site asking
about Polyphemus's stolen sheep. The garrisons came to the site to find out about the swine.
Odysseus and crew embarked. Jesus and his disciples embarked. Odysseus told the giant
to proclaim that he had blinded him. You know, tell the people that son of so-and-so, Odysseus
is the one who blind you. Jesus told the hill demoniac as he got in the boat to proclaim what
God had done for him. Tell them that, you know, God has done this for you. The giant asked Odysseus,
now aboard ship, to come back. Hey, come back here, Odysseus. The demoniac asked Jesus now aboard
ship if he could be with him and he tells them no. Odysseus refused the request. Jesus refused
the request. Odysseus and his crew sailed away. Jesus and his disciples sailed away. Right after
the Cyclops story, Odysseus awoke during a storm on the sea. Jesus awoke during a storm,
calmed the wind and sea just before exercising the demoniac. So rather than it being after,
Jesus calms the storm before. The authors are reworking the narratives.
This is going to sound like a silly question. This is pre-Christianity, right? Like this is like
800 years? Yeah, let's say six, 700 years. Yeah, way before. So far, we have only explored stories
and sayings that have been canonized within Christendom. But what about the lost Christianities,
the sects later to be described as heresies? What secrets can be found amongst the pages of
early Christianity? And why were these pages torn out by the Orthodoxy? Yeah, so I understand that
we have the four Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. They're anonymous, right? And they were
written somewhere between 40 years after Jesus died to 70 years after Jesus died, right? Are there
any other writings from that era that didn't get canonized into Scripture? Second century,
we start seeing a lot more Gospels. There's a text called The Gospel of Peter. And this one was
really popular, and it almost made the canon. This was very close to making it into the canon.
And in this text, there's a giant talking cross. I wish so badly that this would have made the
canon. Because can you imagine apologetics trying to figure this thing out? And they would. That's
how apologetic people figure it out. Oh, God, can do anything. You can make anything. Oh, yeah, yeah.
Well, you have talking snakes then, I mean. That's what I'm saying. This is not anything crazy.
This was not considered heretical until later on. This was one of the popular texts. There's also
Gospel of Mary in which Mary Magdalene, she's the one who receives, she's the highest disciple out of
all of them. She's the one who receives the secret message from Jesus himself that the other ones
don't know. And there's also a Gospel of Judas. And Judas gets told beforehand, listen, man,
there's going to be 12 disciples, you're going to be called the 13th, and they're all going to
hate you, and they're going to oppose you for the ages. You are doing the most important job,
and you have to do it. So Judas knows this secret knowledge, and he has to go through with it.
And so this one flips everything on its head. When we start to see actual texts pop up,
they're all different. They're all like wide ranging. The people in Alexandria, Egypt,
there's Sethians there who believe in transmigration of the soul, which is reincarnation.
When we start seeing documentation of Christians, right off the bat, they're just wide ranging
and different. We are not talking about random hermits in the middle of nowhere. We're talking
about mainstream Christianity. This was mainstream. Tell us about some of these Christian, these major
Christian sects. So there's the Sethians, and they had this text called the Apocryphon of John,
and it's this like really strange text about this unknown God, who is the only thing there is in the
beginning. And from him emanates ions. The first one's called Barbello. And this Barbello is almost
perfect. There's almost as perfect as the unknown God, but it's a little bit less, a little bit more
dimmer light. And then from this ion emanates more ions. And as these ions keep going on,
they're a little, they're less and less light, and they start getting darker and darker to the
bottom. And then there's an ion called Sophia, which is wisdom in Greek. And she creates Yelda
Boeth, who is the Old Testament God. And this Yelda Boeth thinks that he's the only God there is.
He thinks he's in control, but he's mistaken. Sophia is actually the serpent that comes in the
garden. So she comes and tells Eve, listen, that God that you think is your creator, he's a liar,
he doesn't know what he's doing, eat from the tree of knowledge, because that's what's going
to make you a God. They praise Eve is like, she's the one who brought knowledge into the world.
She saved everybody. And Sophia was disguised as a serpent.
The Valentinians have a very close, are very close to the Scythians,
but they're more Pythagorean. They have this like gematria system, everything's numbers.
Jesus's gematria is eight, eight, eight in Greek. So he's like this like perfect logos,
because there's there's 20, there's 24 letters in the Greek alphabet. There's eight
monads, eight haptads, or eight Agduads. And so he's eight, eight, eight. He is the word. He's
the all convincing alphabet. Valentinus was one of the most highest bishops in the Roman Empire.
During his time period, he was popular and famous. He almost became the Bishop of Rome,
which is like the Pope. He had a student named Marcus Magus, who had a trinity. And it was the
monad, which splits off into the duod. So it's all mathematical stuff. But this duod was Christ and
Zoe. So Christ is the logos, Zoe is life. And then if you look at the book of John, it says in the
beginning was the logos, and the logos was with God. And then the first four, it says life and life
was with Christ or whatever. This is all from the Bible. They're not just like making this up randomly.
They're getting this from John. Like they're, they're, they're backed by the Bible. They have
like reasons to believe in what they believe. And Marcian is from Sinope, which is in Turkey.
And he has this idea that, look, look at, look at Genesis one. And God's looking for Adam. How does
he not know where Adam is? If he's all knowing, he should know where Adam is. And I don't think that
he should have known that Adam was going to take from, going to eat from the fruit,
which means he's not all knowing. He can't be the God. He can't be this our God. And Marcian
points to the, to the text of Elijah and says, why wouldn't all good God allow his prophets to send
she bears to go eat, to go kill some kids because they called him Baldy. So Marcian uses the same
arguments that we use today when we, when we criticize the text. And so Marcian made a,
made a canon that was just Paul's epistles and then one of the gospels. That was the can,
he was the first Christian to do a cannon. Marcian's idea of the Old Testament God being,
being like evil is nothing compared to the Caneites.
There's this group of Christians called the Caneites and they're called the Caneites because
they, they thought Cain was the good guy because in the text of Cain and Abel, Abel offers up an
a lamb. Cain offers up vegetables. So Cain being a teller of the land, he's peaceful. He's not,
he doesn't need to kill animals and offer blood to a God. He's peaceful. He's the vegetarian one.
So like he's good. And then they said that Eve, Eve is good. Eve's the good one. And they said
Judas is also the good one. They flipped the entire Bible on its head. Every character that's bad
is now good. Every character that's good is now bad. And they thought that, yeah, they were completely
anti, anti Old Testament. And they just thought that this God Yahweh is completely evil because
he needs blood sacrifices and that's evil. If you made it this far, I hope you enjoyed the video.
Make sure to share this with your fundamentalist auntie and you can support this channel by
becoming a member or checking out our Patreon. Thank you.
