Brock, also known as Captain Dadpool.
He's known as the atheist with a theology degree,
and you know him from his wildly popular Tik Tok and popular
YouTube as well, doing some really cool stuff, some really
cool interviews and welcome Captain Dadpool.
Hey, how's it going, man?
Good, man.
Good.
How are you doing?
Doing well.
I'm excited about this one.
I think we're going to have fun.
Very excited as well.
So the first thing that we wanted to do before we jump into
anything that we do on every stream is what are you drinking
today?
I'm going to be drinking my absolute favorite drink.
It's called Black Seal.
It's a dark spiced rum made by Goslings.
It's similar to Kraken, but it's a little dark, a little
smokier and a little sweeter, I think.
Yeah, it's about the same price as Kraken.
Yeah, it's amazing.
It really is amazing.
And I'm actually, I'm sorry I couldn't get the exact same one
this time.
I apologize.
It is actually really good.
I thought we had some left.
Turns out we don't.
We don't.
And I remember because it was so good.
It's the first rum I've ever actually fully like loved.
So I drink it pretty quickly apparently.
But what I've got today, so I couldn't match you exactly,
is I've got a whiskey that was given to me by my beautiful wife
for Father's Day, which reminds me Mother's Day is coming up
so I better go into that.
But it's like she put this whiskey together.
So like she like chose the flavors, the notes and stuff.
Oh, that's cool as shit.
Why don't you like me like that?
She just said I don't.
She did.
So, but before we get into today, we're talking about the Trinity
and I didn't realize how big of a big of a issue this was for a
lot of Christians because when I was a Christian, I didn't care
about it at all.
Like I didn't think it mattered in the slightest, but apparently
it does.
But I thought we can't start a conversation around the Trinity
without first being wildly tipsy or intoxicated.
So I thought to start us off, we're going to start off with
something a bit fun and we're going to do a Christian cringe
off.
So I saw that that Ricky, you posted on Twitter, a post that
was like essentially like, what was it was like for people
who doubt that I was a Christian, you know, check this, this
old Facebook post.
Share that one.
So don't spoil it.
But and I was like, man, I can definitely be Ricky with this
cringe off.
So I was like, let's do a cringe off and the loser has to
do shots.
So and I think it's going to be hard to get a poll going
between each one.
So I think we will just as a as a the honor system in which
we'll just both agree who was the cringiest and do shots
based on on that.
So whoever's the cringiest of these three posts has to do a
shot.
So do we want to start who wants to start?
Do you want to start off?
Yeah, I can start first.
Let me pour my for this.
I'm going to be taking my shots out of a 40 millimeter
grenade shell that I fired when I was in Iraq and they make
the perfect size shot glasses.
So I must prep a shot.
All right.
Well, I've just got a plain old plain old and also the thing
that I'm shotting.
I decided to be a bit different.
I'm going to shot some tequila.
So mixing alcohols, which is always so I got some tequila
just shot.
So let's do this.
So should I bring up?
I'm going to be going in chronological order from most
recent to earliest three years in a row.
Okay.
Yeah, go ahead and pull it up.
All right, here we go.
At its core sin is irrationality.
It is nothing short of irrational to do anything contrary to
God's word.
Why should we and why would we?
There is no reason and yet we do it up habitually.
This is insanity and it is why we are fallen carnal and in
desperate need of his grace.
Do you know what?
That's not cringe at all.
That that is that is no that's I think it's like cringe.
I think that that's cringe.
It's pretty it's pretty well worded and stuff like it it makes
sense and it's like it's something I could read and maybe
like a like a teenage version of Jordan Peterson or something
like a Christian perspective.
That's a banger.
Yeah, but now I'm like, Oh God, stupid.
Okay, all right.
Well, I'll bring up I'll bring up mine.
Okay.
Mine's a bit shorter than that.
Missions mission trips exist because true worship doesn't.
Hmm.
If we truly worshipped would all be on mission trips.
This is I think the point that I was getting at at the time.
All right.
It's not bad.
It's cringe.
I still think mine is worse.
All right.
Well, um, you know, because I want to take a shot.
Okay, I'm going to do a shot as well because I feel like mine
was cringy feel like yours was cringe.
I'm going to do a shot.
It's fair.
If we disagree, we'll both take a shot.
I'm good with that.
Okay, that sounds good.
Cheers to you.
Cheers.
Oh, remember, it's so it's it's the morning for me.
So yeah.
Yeah.
All right.
I'll start on the next one.
Um, oh, okay.
Now this is this is some serious stuff.
Okay.
This is like if I don't take the cake with this cringe.
Now, I will say that this may have been written when I was on
top of our like local mountain that I used to go up to to pray
over our county.
We used to take back the enemy.
Take back the enemy strongholds.
So, so this is it.
I used to live in Noosa.
Noosa on the rising beauty from ashes.
Hope where it seems hopeless are rising up.
Of committed, passionate teenagers is about to begin intense
revival around the corner dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot.
I will stand.
Tense revival.
It's a good one.
All right.
Oh, I'm going to take the shot.
Back on top of that.
Here we go.
Here we go.
I think I posted this on Easter today.
We celebrate his sinless man raising from the dead.
After becoming a willing sacrifice for the sins of man.
This is a day of celebration as well as a day of reverence.
Oh, it's hard because I'm always going to feel like mine's cringy
because it's coming from me.
And I feel like yours.
Yeah, this is maybe why.
You know, we should have left it up to the audience.
We should have left it up to the audience.
Oh, we should have left it up to the audience.
Sorry.
We should have left it up to the audience.
What?
Okay.
The first person first person to get the name typed in will do the
shot about that.
The name typed in or supposed to type names in?
Oh, no, like the audience, whoever the audience.
I win.
All right.
I mean, it means I take the shot.
All right.
Oh, delicious.
So good.
Um, okay.
You went first last time.
Yeah, you'll go.
So do you want to go first this time or do you want me to go first?
I'll go first this time.
This is the one that I posted on Twitter and you mentioned that we
should, we should do this.
And I don't know how serious you were about it, but I was like,
dude, that's an awesome idea.
Let's, let's do that.
Okay.
All right.
Oh, so you're an atheist.
Please tell me how wrong a book is that you've never read.
I was that atheist.
Don't read the Bible.
Yep.
Oh, yeah.
Look, that is pretty cringe.
Um, but I will say that at least there was correct spelling in yours.
Um, I don't even know if I want to show this.
Um, this, this is actually messed up like really bad.
Okay.
So I have no idea what was going on at this time.
This was, I think when I was losing the job as a youth pastor or
around that time and like, okay, here we go.
Let's embrace this cringe.
All right.
I'm ready.
Yeah.
Well, I'm going to, I'm going to.
I'm doing a shot to get you through this one.
You got high expectations for this one.
It doesn't even make sense.
We aren't perfect, but we are God's not looking for perfection.
He's looking for growth and people who will follow him.
So if you're choosing to grow or move forward and choosing to
follow him, then wrong, then you're wrong, but you're perfect.
But wait, Dave.
Oh question mark.
What are you saying?
God's not looking for perfection and doesn't expect us to ever reach perfection.
But through God, God's eyes, growth and commitment is perfection.
We aren't perfect, but we are.
I love how the effect us to be able to have to reach perfection.
You misspelled expect.
I know.
I know.
It's almost intentional.
It's dude.
This was, it's so bad.
I must have been in like a fever prayer type like moment when I was
typing this out.
Dude, I sometimes like write this out.
Like I wrote, I wrote a message to like Dan McClellan and Dr.
Jennifer Bird and like all of the scholars.
And when I reread it, I was like, what the, it made no sense cause I just
broken up.
So I wonder if this is the same thing.
But my friend, Ben Daw said, and you can't spell.
And then again, no, I can't with lower case.
But God's not looking for perfection.
Lol.
Do you see how that works?
Oh my God.
Lol.
No, sorry man.
I skipped that bullshit.
Like I sound like a crack addict.
Like I sound like.
I'm going to take a shot for you because that, that is pretty, that
response, that, that comment you left that, that was worse than the
original post.
I think I'm going to.
Yeah.
For you.
I know.
It's so bad.
It's so bad.
Oh, Kip.
Yes.
We are talking about the Trinity today, but we thought we'd start it off by
getting the juices going by having a little bit of alcohol by looking at
some cringe Christian posts, but, but yeah, it's time to jump into the
Trinity.
I'm drinking for David at this point.
Yeah, it's bad.
Like I sent that to a friend of mine and he's like, I would have taken that to
my grave.
He's like, I have no idea how you have the, the, the goal to like show that
publicly to people.
He's like that.
He's like, I'm impressed by the, the cringe that you can.
It's not even cringy, but even is it?
Like it's just pure embarrassment.
I should be embarrassed about that.
Like that is, and I am, but I just accept that.
Yeah.
I just kept it.
It keeps me grounded.
So that's the key in coping with it is to laugh at it.
Oh man.
You know, it's like, oh man.
God, if I, if I, I would have been, there's so many more areas in my life.
I would have been so annoying.
I think if I didn't go through the huge fall from grace when it came to
like learning about like, if I didn't go through that, I would have like really,
really like been annoying in so many other areas.
Like I started running.
I would have been like, this is an example.
But if I started running, I would have been like, why aren't you running?
You're good.
Like I would have been just that, that.
You would have been that annoying cross fitter.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That kind of thing.
Yeah.
Oh God.
And I, I feel myself being cringy in so many areas and I have to pull myself back.
Cause I remember how badly it's looking back.
So, so grateful that tech talk was not a thing when I was a Christian because
Oh boy.
Those cringe videos that I watch on across my feet on tech talk.
Like, yeah, that would have been me.
That would have been me.
So I was 17 year old kid who doesn't know anything.
It's like crying and pouring his heart out in front of the camera.
I'm like, yeah, been there.
That would have been me.
Yeah.
It's funny.
I actually, I actually found, so I'm doing a, um, I'm doing a video on, on apologetics
and I actually went through some of my old footage to see if I had footage from church,
like, uh, like videos and stuff.
And I had like this old little phone and it recorded in 320 pixels by 320 pixels.
And there's a video on there of me.
I found the other day of me like with a guitar tone deaf singing, like in my bedroom by myself
because I was like having this worship moment.
And I went on to like, like, like pray to God and just see what came out.
And I watched it and I was like, oh man, this is so it's, it's coming in the,
it's coming in the video again.
Everyone can look forward to watching that comes out.
But, uh, yeah.
Okay.
So the Trinity, can you, so I guess for those who don't know what the Trinity is,
uh, this is how I've best been able to put it together.
And this is the same, like, uh, phraseology.
Oh, oh, Captain Deadpool has disappeared.
He's on a new computer.
So I'll just wait to see how that goes.
Anyway, how's everyone been doing anyway?
Just as we wait for.
He's back.
Hey, how you doing?
I have those who don't know, I have a new computer.
My old computer is a 12 years old.
And it finally died.
It was on life support for a while.
And I finally died and had to get a new one, which a lot of my followers helped pay for.
So thank you guys.
But it's comes with all this updated software that I've never messed with before.
And so I was trying to put like my references that I'm going to be using on like a split screen feature.
And then I was like that and I closed the split screen and it's for some reason closed this.
So anyway, okay.
Well, um, so well, I'm glad it didn't blow up or something.
And then the stream would end.
But, um, the way that I like, I kind of understood the Trinity is this is the Trinity.
This is coming from inspiring philosophy video as well, which is there are three kinds of
notions, right?
There is one God.
God is three coexisting eternal persons and each person is fully God.
Yep.
And I want to claw my eyes out at that already.
But I was wondering if we could, if you could talk a little bit about that and maybe even
steel man, the best position for the Trinity.
Oh boy.
Um, yeah.
So the, the typical analogy that everybody uses is, is, um, water can both be a solid in the form of ice, a liquid and gas in the form of water.
But they're all H2O, just three forms of the same substance that, um, and, uh, there's a mathematical analogy that goes, uh, one plus one plus one equals three.
But three plus a three time or one times one times one equals one.
So it's like, there's all these crazy analogies going on out there.
Um, but yeah, basically the idea is the fathers on the Holy Spirit are co-eternal being all, all existed together at the same time, um, neither of which were created.
These, this distinction is going to be important later on, uh, because there were arguments about these nuoncical details, um, you know, which we'll talk about.
Um, but eventually, um, this is what the church settled on.
Um, this is the, the version that won out.
Um, they're, uh, they're not distinct from each other.
Um, because some people said that they were distinct in number, but, uh, not distinct in will.
Um, um, other positions argued that Jesus was created or begotten from God and that became a heresy.
Um, some of yous thought that Jesus was subservient to God.
Well, then he can't be equal with God if he's subservient.
Uh, so that became a heresy.
Um, so everything said on his ass is three, three sides of the same coin kind of thing, which still doesn't make sense.
Um, and Christians always pretend like it does.
Uh, and they'll, you know, they'll try to explain it to you, but yeah.
Well, something that, uh, something that I didn't realize, like I said before, I didn't realize how big of an issue this was.
Uh, until I watched Damon Collins most recent video, um, where he's responding to inspiring philosophy and, uh, let's just play a little section of it.
And that's just flagrant.
A Christian is someone who holds to Orthodox beliefs and doctrines.
The faith that was handed down from the apostles and what is taught in scripture.
Okay.
So does everyone hear that?
Real quick.
Yes, Dr. Kep.
That could also be modalism.
That's kind of the flaw with that analogy.
But yeah, it's like, I don't have an actual grind.
So, uh, so essential Christian doctrines.
So I didn't accept these as a, as a Christian that these were essential for a Christian.
I didn't accept, uh, well, belief in one God.
Yeah.
The Trinity I didn't care about the full of humanity, like 50, 50, like, well, yeah, that was pretty important.
Um, Jesus fully gone, fully man.
I didn't even think that was true.
Right.
How's that?
Like a, well, yeah, because like he was, he was God's son, right?
Um, born of a virgin, virgin Mary.
I didn't think that was relevant.
Relevant.
Really?
Like why was that relevant to what Jesus took on the cross?
Jesus physically died and physically resurrected.
Yes.
I think that was the thing that was important.
Uh, Jesus second coming.
I thought was, um, like important, but not like, um, not like if someone didn't, if
it was a Christian that didn't believe it, I think they were just a whack Christian,
uh, and the inspiration of scripture.
I don't, I mean, there are Christians who don't accept, don't accept script, uh, scriptura.
Um, so I didn't hold to a lot of these as a Christian.
I didn't, I thought that it was shocking to me that, that some people even like, like
inspiring philosophy are saying that no, no, these are, if you don't subscribe to these,
you're not a Christian.
So like just witnesses are not Christians.
Mormons aren't Christians.
A lot of other Catholics like Christian sex.
Sorry.
It's in Catholics.
Not Christians.
Catholics aren't Christians.
Wait, what?
Depending on the view of the, um, second coming of Christ anyway.
Uh, but we, we don't got to go into that.
Interesting.
Topics for another video.
So, so that was, I was like, wow, that's, that's super interesting.
So can you talk a little bit about that, that the controversy?
And I guess maybe wear it, like where?
Actually, do you want to give us a bit of a deep, like a historical overview of it and
talk about the controversy in that.
So a huge reason for the development of the Trinity was to, um, was to combat, uh, pagan
and, um, motorist critics, um, who were criticizing these views.
Um, so there, there's all these, uh, dialogues between the early church fathers and there's
a good, uh, Justin Martyr writes a dialogue with Typho was, it was like a friend of his
and they're trying to discuss like philosophically.
Um, but they're, they're, they're being accused by the pagans and some other versions of Christians.
Um, that you're, you're, you're worshiping multiple gods by claiming that Jesus and God are,
are the same.
Uh, and they're like, no, no, we're not.
Here's why.
Uh, and the early church fathers, every single one of them were Gentile, by the way, none
of them are Jews.
Um, and I say that because that's important because they, uh, they all came from a philosophical
background.
They were either Neo Platonist or Stoics or something like that.
So they would lean on their training and philosophy to make, to make this work.
Um, and if it didn't work, um, if like their opponents still didn't accept, they would
just be like, that's because the devil is warped, warped your view or God will not allow you
to see the truth, uh, because of your sinful nature.
So there's always this convenient reason why you don't understand because either the devil
or God won't let you, you know, so it's really funny to watch or read rather.
But yeah, that's, that's, that's big.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, that's actually interesting because, uh, in inspiring philosophy video, which I
watched last night and again, I said, I said, I don't want to turn this into an inspiring
philosophy bash because he's just a lot of, this is what most Christians believe.
Um, or at least this is what people who support the Trinity, uh, believe.
But, um, I, um, in firing inspiring philosophy states that the Trinity is beyond our comprehension.
I was not wrong there.
But, but so the steelman, the steelman of him saying that is that, you know, Euclidean
geometry is also beyond our comprehension.
Infinity is kind of beyond our comprehension, but we know, you know, it can exist.
And yeah, that's good.
Euclidean geometry that there's, there's way, there are things that are beyond our
comprehension, but they logically work.
But I just don't think this also fits into that category because you have to, you have
to buy into, you have to almost buy into, there's no evidence to support it.
Like Euclidean geometry or something.
It's, you have to buy into the notion first.
Like you have to buy into, well, that's just the way it is.
It's beyond comprehension.
Um, yeah.
Yeah.
And if, if you don't understand it, then it's because God's not allowing you to,
because you're not a real Christian.
Yeah.
It's just like, you don't understand, bro.
You just don't, you just don't get it.
That's, that's, that's how I hear it.
Okay.
All right.
Yeah.
So, and I guess this would be, um, I'm guessing it'd be like books and books and
books on, on these, these questions that I would have.
But so for, uh, for, uh, I think maybe we should go through each, um, one of these.
So there is one God.
That's the, that's the first kind of premise of the Trinitarian perspective,
um, as proposed or as written by inspiring philosophy.
Um, but is that even true according to the biblical worldview?
Biblical times.
No.
Um, biblical times is mostly, um, oh God, what's the word?
Polytheistic?
No, polytheistic.
Pan, not panotheistic.
Um, someone in the chat helped me out.
I'm drawing a blank.
Um, maybe it's panotheistic.
Um, panotheistic.
Yes.
Thank you.
God.
You're not theistic.
Thank you.
Apostate of mind.
Um, yes.
That idea is there, there are all these other gods, but only one is worthy of being
worshiped.
Um, so they don't deny that there's other gods.
It's like when, um, you know, in the Old Testament, God says have no other gods before
me.
There's, there's a thousand verses in the Old Testament where God's like stop worshiping
this God, stop worshiping that God.
I'm, I'm the only one who deserves to be worshiped.
Um, that's why they didn't deny the existence of these other gods.
That wouldn't come until later, um, after the development of the New Testament.
Um, and even within, um, or after people are arguing, like again, what the early church
fathers are arguing with their opponents, is they're like, what about the logos in
John?
That's another God, right?
So that he existed with God.
And I'm like, no, but that, that is, is God because it's, but it's God in the flesh.
I'm like, how can God, if you're worshiping the God in the flesh down here and the God
up there, that's two gods.
And they got the Holy Spirit thing.
So what, what, what gives?
So yeah, there could explain the logos.
Say, what do you mean by that?
Oh, um, so the logos was, um, one of the ways they started to, uh, explain this way.
Um, who was it?
Uh, Justin Martyr is the first one to use the term, uh, which is a term borrowed from
Stoics.
It didn't originate with Stoics, uh, but they, they used it, um, much more broadly in
their teaching.
So the logos and there's, there's different interpretations.
Um, logos is basically like some sort of force or essence that holds the world together.
Um, or it's, it's a way of an invisible force that helps you understand things.
Um, there's a million different.
Yeah.
Uh, it's like the, the bat belt, the Batman utility belt, all these convenient ways of
explaining it, depending on what they're, yeah.
The way to succumb, isn't it?
Is it one John?
I think is it one John?
Yeah.
In the beginning of the word, the word was with God and the word was God.
And then the word there in Greek is logos.
Right.
Okay.
Interesting.
So what's the answer to that for a Christian or for someone, uh, let's say, for an
Apologist, what's the, what's the answer to that?
So maybe I should bring up the, um, the Greek.
It's tough because, um, in one sense, the logos was understood by it from the Christians
or actually from the Jewish perspective, um, there was the wisdom of God, um, or that
was the breath of God.
And then later that idea started to become the logos was the wisdom of God and the breath
of God.
So something that came from God, but then later became, no, it was God, just another part
of the Trinity that's equal with God and the Father.
But that's a much later view.
Uh, earlier Christians were arguing that, uh, it was begat from God.
It was a part of God, but something he, um, like a part of himself that he made into
another figure, uh, that sent to earth to guide mankind.
Yeah.
Cause it's, it is interesting.
Uh, so John one, one, so John is the bit of a different gospel, right?
Because it's like totally not part of, it's not part of the, uh, like it's not, it wasn't,
uh, they didn't use Mark as a source text, right?
It's like a, it's a whole different thing.
It doesn't include a lot of the same stories.
Um, that, which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our
eyes, which we have looked at with our hands have touched this, uh, it's just the right
verse.
I can't see.
No one in the wrong verse.
No, John one, one, sorry.
Are you, you're using a weird, you're using the NIV.
That's the problem.
What translation is the worst?
He's a NASB or NRSB.
Um, and NIV is a terrible, terrible translation.
Is it one John one or just John one?
John one, one.
Oh, I was in John.
Sorry.
I was in, I was in John one, John one.
Sorry.
I was like, this doesn't make sense.
Okay.
In the beginning, uh, was the word and the word was with God and the word was God.
Right.
Now, interestingly, um, Justin martyr is the first one to use, uh, the term logos to,
uh, talk about the relationship between the Holy spirit and God and Jesus.
But he never quotes John one one, uh, when he talking about this, he quotes the Bible
all the time to defend his positions, but here he doesn't quote John one one, which
is one of the reasons some scholars think that that, um, poem in the beginning with
John one, one was added later, or maybe he didn't have access to that version.
And there's other versions floating around, but anyway, um, but the, the weird thing about
Justin martyr's writings is he said, he calls the logos another God, not God, not something
that came from God, but another God.
Um, that was, he said it was distinct from God, um, and begotten of God.
So God created the logos.
Uh, this would be a problem with the views of the Trinity, uh, because the Trinity believes
in the Trinity, uh, the Holy spirit was co-eternal with God was not, was not created.
It was always there from the beginning of time.
Um, yeah.
Okay.
Where were we going with that?
I can't remember.
Well, um, well, I just, I got the, so the one God thing is a problem.
There is one God, but then there's also, um, God is three coexisting eternal persons,
which is essentially what you, what you're saying here, right?
Um, what did, I guess, what did, what did you learn in theology school about what,
what does it mean by persons?
What does persons mean there?
Oof.
Because like, or like, to me, this just seems to be-
Maybe like beings.
I wouldn't, I wouldn't use persons.
I would say beings.
Beings.
Beings.
A being kind of, in my mind is a singular thing.
This is like where, uh, Rupert Spirit tries to say that consciousness is everything,
but we're all the same consciousness.
It's like, no one, what, like, what do you mean?
Like, how does that, how does that make sense?
It just seems, it doesn't, it doesn't seem to work.
Yeah.
And another problem is the, the eternal part.
I guess this was a huge, I talked a little bit about this already, but this was a huge
point of contention to the early church fathers was, were they, all the beings eternal?
Were they, did they all exist at the same time?
Were any of them created?
So a lot of people believe that Jesus was created or the Holy Spirit was created.
And others thought, no, that's wrong.
Yeah.
And that was a huge, huge problem.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, which is, and when they're arguing, that's, this is what still escaped me.
Um, when they're arguing these points, they're all using scriptures to back them up.
Um, so for example, if someone is arguing that Jesus was not, uh, an eternal being or
no, that he was an eternal being, but he was not equal with the father.
He was still subservient to God because just because you're created, that doesn't mean
you're equal or just because you're, uh, in existence with God at the same time, uh,
that doesn't mean you're equal either.
So they're quote, like, um, second Philippians or Philippians shepherd to, uh, that says
Jesus, even though he, um, existed in the beginning with God, uh, did not exist in
the form of God, but he humbled himself, uh, into the form of a servant and remained
obedient until God elevated him to a position that was equal with him.
So in that view, and earlier trials use this to argue this point, Jesus was existed with
God in the very beginning, but was not equal with him.
Uh, he was a servant and God elevated him later to be equal with him.
It was very confusing stuff.
Yeah.
Again, I said this to, I actually said this in inspiring policy.
I was like, why does God make it so confusing?
Like, why, why is this, why is it so confusing?
Why does it, why do we have to like, I don't know.
Like, of course, it wasn't God that made it confusing.
It was man.
Right.
It's like not to get ahead of ourselves, but the doctor of the attorney didn't come around
for about 300 years after the Bible.
Like it slowly developed over time and it wasn't solidified until about the fourth
century.
Yeah.
I was going to actually, I was going to actually say that it's like, if the trinity
exists, we should just be able to clearly open the Bible and find sections where it
exists.
Um, even, even if the word doesn't exist, because this is, this is a, I'm trying to
steal man the position of a trinity, but they say, well, the word trinity doesn't
isn't in the Bible, but you know, neither is omnipotent or whatever, omniscient or whatever,
but we know that God is.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, yeah.
So what do you make of that?
They'll point to verses like, uh, was it Matthew 21?
And Jesus says baptize them or go forth, make disciples of every nation, baptizing them
in the name of the Father, Son and the Holy Spirit.
Like, oh, that's the trinity.
No, he's just listing the three figures.
He, he's not offering any explanation as to how they're one, how they're co-eternal, how
they're co-equal.
There's none of that being taught there.
It's just listing the three.
Um, and then Clement of Alexandria echoes this.
Um, he's, he's like the one of the first Christian writers running at the end of the first
century.
He echoes this sentiment and still it is another person that they'll quote or IP will do to
be like, this is an early idea.
And I'm like, no, he says the same thing.
He does not offer any explanation as to how they're one.
Um, the reason this is, is because they're writing to, uh, deal with issues that are happening
in their church.
They're not, they're not concerned with developing theological ideas at this point.
Cause they still think the end that Jesus is coming back like now, which they're not,
they're not worried about.
Yeah.
200 years prior.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, so they're, they're not conservative.
They're dealing with what's happening in the church and you know, the churches are fighting
with each other.
Speaking of tongues at the wrong time, whatever.
So they're, they're trying to, they're trying to make things look good for when Jesus comes
back.
You know, the boss is coming back.
Everybody look busy kind of thing.
That's what they're concerned about.
And it wasn't until later when Christianity started getting more attention and started
being criticized.
Uh, so then you start seeing, uh, writings from like Justin Martyr and Clement or not,
uh, origin who are arguing against them because now they're, there's a dialogue going on outside
of the church or between the church and outside forces because now they're trying to evangelize
more than they were before.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So had, so, well, this is, this is a, this is, you know, so much more about this than
I do.
But is, so the, would you say the early church accepted the, the, the gospel.
Um, oh my gosh, the liquor's kicking in for sure.
Excepted the doctrine of the Trinity.
No.
I would say you say this, this is completely, you would say this is a completely new idea.
Yeah.
Like 300 years later.
Um, yeah.
Well, not, not it.
It depends.
So like, for example, um, and inspiring philosophies videos or video, which I just watched today
because you taught you, you told me about it.
Um, he says like Justin Martyr was Trinitarian through and through.
I'm like, no, he was not not by today's Trinitarian standards because he believed a whole bunch
of other things that were deemed heretical.
In fact, his view of the Trinity became heretical by the, by the church that would be established.
Right.
Um, so what happens is every, every early church father will, will mention something that
you could take and be like, this, this is applies to Trinity.
So like, if one of them says, um, the father, the son, the Holy spirit or, or co-eternal
like, oh, that's, that's the Trinity right there.
The problem is if you read, if you keep reading, he'll say something like Jesus was subservient
to God, even though he's eternal, he, he was a servant of God.
Like he, they were not equal.
Um, so like you have to cherry pick their writings to make it, to make them sound Trinitarian.
Um.
Oof.
We'll feel a bit more.
What would be the problem if, why do you think they find so harmful?
The Trinity, if you, if you say it's not there,
uh, I think it's because it was at the, at the Council of Council of Constantinople
and 381, I think it was, um, is where the Trinity is solidified as the official doctrine
of the church.
Uh, before it wasn't, uh, even in, um, you know what, I got a slide, Joe, uh, or a slide
I'll pull up real quick to illustrate this point because the earliest version of the
Nicene Creed that came out of the Council, I see in 325, um, doesn't talk like just getting
ahead of myself.
I'll show you.
This is, this is funny up to me.
All right, so here's the first version, right, there was a whole bunch about God and his
relationship to Jesus and what Jesus did on earth, who Jesus was.
And then at the end, and in the Holy spirit, I believe in this, I believe in that, I believe
in blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and in the Holy spirit, but the Holy spirit was an afterthought.
They didn't care that much, right?
But then the council might see it.
It says, and in the Holy spirit and it's both a quick and a dead and in the Holy spirit.
Yeah.
Okay.
Then we get to the Council of Constance, Noble.
This is everything that's talked about or referring to the Holy spirit.
See, there's so much more developed now because they were like, we need to put more in there
about the Holy spirit because they didn't care before.
So this is when it became official church doctrine.
And if you didn't believe this, you were not Christian, right?
Right.
So this is why anything prior to this, it was fair game.
This is where everything started to get pigeonholed.
Now we had certain church, later church fathers would break away from this, like Martin Luther
was a huge, fought very hard against Trinitarianism.
This Trinitarian view like stayed and yeah, it was the most popular.
So I think people are just, are you used to this?
This is what most churches teach.
So most people that start going to church when they're babies or convert later on, this
is what they're taught and this is what they defend because they can't be wrong, you know?
And they've been convinced because when you, the big problem is when you become a Christian
and you start going to church, you're told what to believe first.
You're told what the Bible says first and then you read it.
So by the time you start reading it, you're reading it with rose-colored glasses.
You don't actually know what it's saying.
You don't care what it says.
Everything's supporting the position you've already been told.
That's why when we leave Christianity, we take off those rose-colored glasses and I
can be like, oh, this is what it's actually saying.
Yeah.
The Trinity is not, I used to, my church was heavy into the Trinity in the Holy Spirit.
I was a charismatic Pentecostal.
We believed in the spiritual gifts which were given to you by the Holy Spirit.
So my church taught this a lot and often.
So I believed it wholeheartedly.
It was a huge Trinitarian, used all these verses and now looking back, I'm like, the Trinity
is not in the Bible.
It's not fucking there at all.
Can you, as a shaman, go into the spirit of your old Christian self and, for a second,
because I would say it was the Holy Spirit who was coming onto people in the room and
stuff.
But let's say it wasn't.
Let's say it was just the spirit of God.
The spirit of God would say, God is here, God's here, whatever.
Does that make a difference?
Christian Ricky?
Does that really matter?
Christian Ricky?
What does it matter if it was Jesus entering, because I know people who were like, Jesus
is here.
It's like, does that matter if Jesus is here or if it's the Holy Spirit or if it's God
or if it's these angels or if it's Mark, the Archangel or whatever?
Does it matter?
What matters is that it was...
My church would always say that God has sent the Holy Spirit.
There's a really passionate worship one morning or something, but God has sent the Holy Spirit,
which is crazy because that's more of a modalist view than a Trinitarian view.
But you don't know that, and it doesn't matter.
Yeah, but it doesn't, would it matter?
As a Christian, if you would have answered this, why doesn't it matter so much?
I don't think it would matter.
As long as you acknowledged the Trinity and the co-equal, co-eternal parts of God, it
didn't matter if you referred to Him as Godfather or the Holy Spirit, as long as you revered
each of them as equal, if that makes sense?
Yeah.
I actually remember, it's funny that you said that when you go to church, you're taught
what to believe before it even begins.
Sometimes I remember we would get some youth and they would get saved.
The first thing we'd do is we'd give them a big magazine Bible.
It was like these cool people skating and talking about God and Bible verses and stuff.
We'd give them to them so they could learn about what they just subscribed to.
They had an experience and they got prayed for and they're part of this new social group
of everyone, so welcoming and so accepting, and then you taught what to believe.
It's funny because I was recently having lunch with a friend of mine who's a Jehovah's
Witness and he said, he goes, I said, so why did you become a Jehovah's Witness?
He goes, well, I wasn't a believer in God and then I just decided that I needed to look
into which church was right, and I knew that I couldn't go with one that except the Christmas
or Easter because I know that.
I'm like, what?
Why?
Why?
You're going into it already.
I don't believe that.
I don't believe you had no understanding of Jehovah's Witness doctrine and then you're
like, I've got to look for a church that doesn't like to subscribe to Christmas or Easter
because that's wrong.
It was bizarre to me, but it's similar.
That's what happens when you go to church and you talk these things.
For me, none of these theological problems really mattered.
As you could tell from my cringe post, I wasn't the most intellectual of Christians.
I was much more an artsy spirit kind of person.
Yeah.
Where were we?
We're talking a little bit about the historical development, which I'd love to get more into.
Yeah.
Because I was talking about some of the arguments that the early church fathers were
Trinitarian, but if you look more into their views, you'll see.
No, they were not.
In the case of the start of Justin Martyr, like he was a Trinitarian, like no, he wasn't
because he thought the Logos was another God that was distinct from God and created
by God, which became a heresy.
That's the funny thing is like, I'll give some more examples, but every single one of
them eventually became a heresy and were rejected.
So you can't say that they were Trinitarian
because the Trinitarians rejected their interpretation of the Trinity.
So the first time that word Trinity is used, as far as we know, recorded
is in 180 by Theophilus of Antioch.
He was another pagan convert.
And he argues, he acknowledges that God, the word and the wisdom.
So they'll be like, this is an early form of the Trinity right here.
It's like, no, keep reading because Theophilus believed that God created a Trinity.
From himself, and it was the word, the wisdom and man.
Man was the third, the third figure.
So like, no, that's very heretical, right, by the later church standards.
Ironious, what was he?
Ironious, I think, also believed.
Yeah, I'm going to skip him.
Do you have any of these quotes that we could read?
Yeah.
I forgot to ask everyone, by the way, what is everyone drinking today?
That's a great question.
Why should we have all the fun?
All right, I'm just going to pull up my notes.
All right, let me say, this will be worth it, I promise.
Boom, we're in business.
All right, so.
I love that you are really committed to, like, looking at sources and stuff.
Like, you really, you really dive.
I feel, I get the impression that you just really dive deep into whatever you're like.
I do.
It's something I get hyper fixated on and I go to read and read and read and take notes and make highlights about certain things.
Yeah, so.
Nitty just said, by the way, it's hilarious to watch Christians give analogies and slip into modalism.
Yeah, exactly.
All right, so yeah.
Oh, did you, you lost the, we just lost the.
Oh, that's because I, whoops.
Okay, sorry.
One more time.
Is that right?
New computer things.
There we go.
Yep, that's the one.
All right, so.
He's climbed the Rome talked about him, Justin Martyr.
Here's a quote from dialogue with Typo, Justin calls logos another God be gotten from the unbegotten subject to the maker of all things and was distinct from God numerically not in will.
Right.
That's heresy.
The office, the first one used the word Trinity.
And he did this because a friend of his called through his ideas about worshiping multiple gods is foolishness.
He's like, no, we're not worshiping multiple gods.
And here is.
I don't have the actual quote there.
Oh, yeah, this is good.
I'd like manner.
There's also three days which were before the luminaries are types of the Trinity of God and his word and his wisdom and the fourth is the type of man who needs light.
That is, so there's a God who created a Trinity that consists consisted of the word wisdom and man.
So big, big problem.
So irony is here's the quote there.
One God the father is declared who is above all through all and in all the father is indeed above all and he's the head of Christ.
But the word is through all things and is himself the head of the church while the spirit is in us all and he is the living water.
Right.
So in this view, God is still chief and Jesus and the Holy Spirit are subservient to him.
Novation.
Moving to the second center now.
Yeah, his view as Christ is still subordinate to the father.
Here's the here's the full quote.
Anyone wants to read it?
Yeah, origin.
Origin.
So this is one of the people that inspiring philosophy quoted as being an early Trinitarian because he mentions that God, the father son and the wisdom spirit are all co-eternal.
The problem is.
I'm going to.
Yeah.
Okay, so.
The problem is what what he doesn't tell you is Justin Martyr believed that every soul, every being that would ever exist existed in the beginning of time.
Right.
But every soul.
Failed.
God, pretty much.
They had varying degrees of failure.
Like if you didn't honor or worship God hard enough, you were made an angel if or no, you were made a human.
If you really didn't worship God, then you were made an angel, which is lower.
And if you really, really didn't worship God enough, you were made a demon.
Right.
And that's also how he explained like birth, like birth defects and disabilities.
Like you're born mangled or crippled or something.
It's that's why you're a full and a falling soul.
But one of those souls was Jesus.
And he's the only one who worshiped God the right way.
So even though, yes, he believed that the Father, Son and Holy Spirit were all exist in the beginning of time.
He believed every one exists in the beginning of time in the form of a soul.
Right.
So.
Interesting.
So this kind of, does this kind of, this would be an odds with some of the early like Gnostic thought of like,
was it the Marcianites or the, I'm just removing this for a second.
Just the, is it the Marcianites or the, that wasn't the Marcianites.
It was the Gnostics.
They thought that there was a divine spark.
And if you, they were like against having kids because they thought that you were bringing a divine spark into the,
but was it that you bring a divine spark into the world and it wasn't like a good thing to do that?
That it was like suffering or something.
Yeah.
There, there were a whole bunch of different sex within us.
Gnosticism.
But yeah, that's, that's one of them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So.
Okay.
Interesting.
Okay.
So those who embrace, so there's, then, right.
Take the screen down for a second.
Yeah.
So the idea that became really popular was called modalism.
We talked about earlier and kid brought up.
Modalism was the idea that God existed in three separate modes.
Right.
Like the analogy is though, even I'm, even though I'm a me, I have different roles.
Depending on the situation.
Right.
I can be a husband of my wife, a father to my children and an employee to my employer.
So that was the modalist view.
But what was it?
Modalism.
Trying not to get that mixed up with pathogenism or supalianism.
They didn't.
I think there's a.
Yeah.
Anyway.
One of the popes at the time subscribed to this view.
And people like Apolitus and Tritulean heavily fought against it because they thought it was heresy.
And they eventually, their arguments won.
So you can pull that back up now.
There's just this, there's this image that I wanted to kind of just quickly show.
Yeah.
That explains modalism a little bit.
To see that, it's like, it makes more sense to me than the modalism makes more sense to me than the.
I don't know if I would see that actually.
Yeah.
It's so much simpler than the Trinity diagram, right?
Yeah.
So it's like, what?
So it's like, it's because there's a meme that I brought up when we had a meme off when inspiring for us to come on.
That it was like, Jesus was praying and he's like, are you there, God?
It's me, you.
And it's like, and he's like, that's modalism.
And I was like, is it?
It's like his, but it's like his person, his being is praying to, I don't know.
You know, this talk, this stream is currently titled Making Sense of the Trinity.
I don't think we're going to make sense of it.
I should be honest.
I don't know.
Yeah.
So like, I have here, like the, like the pagans, modalists were arguing with these guys and accusing them of worshiping two gods, you know, there's right there.
Because they, they thought that they were worshiping the father and son separately.
And the modalists didn't think they were doing that.
So here's some quotes to Julian says they are constantly throwing out against us that we are preachers of two gods and three gods while they take to themselves preeminently the credit of being worshipers of one God.
Hippolytus admits the modalists who objected to his own view that the son and the father were two separate beings called us worshipers of multiple of two gods.
Right.
So then to Julian starts going on the offensive and starts arguing in Hippolytus too.
I shall not indeed.
Okay, hold on.
Pull that down a second.
I want to, I want to, I want to set something up because this is going to be another jab and sparring philosophy.
Oh, I want to.
I love you, Mike.
I love you too, Mike.
But when you're wrong, you're really wrong.
That's what, that's what, that's what Matt Delanti said as well.
I think, you know what, I've said this before, but I think he's the least wrong.
Like as far as he's the least wrong.
He's still wrong.
Definitely wrong.
But he's the least wrong.
Okay.
He puts the most effort into being wrong.
That's my point.
He makes a lot of effort.
We should have, you know what, we should have had like a pre, a pre drinking session and then all three of us got into this conversation.
Anyway, it was funny.
This is one of the quotes that he has up in his video.
Isn't the right one?
No, yeah, it is.
I shall, I shall not indeed speak of, I don't think it was okay.
I shall not indeed speak of two gods, but of one of two persons, however, and of a third third economy, the grace of the Holy Spirit, for the father indeed is one.
But there are two persons because there's also the son, and there is the third, the Holy Spirit, and there's the rest of the quote.
Now, this letter is, is a refutation against notice.
I don't know how to pronounce that.
And it's in chapter four or verse 14.
The problem is, at the very beginning.
What did I just do?
At the very beginning of this chapter of this book.
This right one.
Give her that.
Some others are secretly introducing another doctrine who have become disciples of Noetus, who is a native of Samirna and lived not very long ago.
This person was greatly puffed up and inflated with pride, being inspired by the conceit of a strange spirit.
He alleged.
He alleged that Christ was the father himself, and that the father himself was born and suffered and died.
You see the pride of your heart and what a strange inflated spirit had instant insinuated themselves into him.
That's what the Trinitarians teach.
The guy he's arguing against saying this guy is puffed up, puffed up.
He's got a huge ego and he's influenced by a strange spirit.
He's weird because he thinks Jesus and God are the same.
But that's what Trinitarians believe now.
But couldn't someone argue against this and say, in this instance, this person is talking about persons or beings.
They're not separate beings, but they're not separate.
I'm sure they could try.
But when I first time I read that, I was like, yo, you throw the Trinity in the mix or the Holy Spirit in the mix and that is today's Trinity.
This guy that is arguing against saying he's possessed by a strange spirit has a closer view of the Trinity than he does.
This is not a good source to lean on when trying to defend the historicity of the Trinity.
You can pull that down now.
None of this was in the canon.
To me, it was irrelevant.
Who cares about what early church fathers said?
Benny Hinn says a bunch of stuff too, but I don't trust what Benny Hinn has to say.
They're just Christians like anybody else.
He wasn't in the canon.
Again, if we go back to the Scripture, I just don't see how we get the Trinity from the Bible verses that are brought up.
And you brought up one before, which is you go baptize them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.
Is there any church father that points back to Scripture?
Oh, they all do.
What do they say?
I don't have all those pulled up.
Yeah, of course.
But yeah, pretty much everyone of them quotes scriptures to defend their position, but they all quote different scriptures.
They cherry pick.
And the reason this is, is because the Bible was not a thing yet.
They only had what they had.
They only had what they had, what they had access to.
Nobody had a full Bible.
This group had Matthew.
This group had Luke.
Valentini and Gnostics had John.
Right?
This group liked Paul.
This group hated Paul.
So they rejected his letters.
This group rejected the entire Old Testament, the Marcy Knights.
They didn't want anything to do with the Old Testament.
Others embraced.
So there was no canon of Scripture.
Everyone was going off of different material.
So that's why they all seem to have these varying views.
And it wasn't until the canon, the scriptures were canonized, also in the fourth century, where then they started to harmonize them all and make them all make sense.
It is interesting too, because they still do that.
Even apologists now will have different answers for the same problems.
And these Christians have essentially the same doctrines.
I'm doing a video on this at the moment.
With the bloodlines, the Matthews bloodline, Luke's genealogies, the genealogies.
They have different solutions for that problem.
Or the end of Jesus returning before this generation passes.
They all have different solutions.
Michael Wenger will say, it's a partial fulfillment.
There's this partial and then a full fulfillment.
Inspirational fulfillment.
Yeah, symbolic fulfillment.
Yeah, convenient excuses.
Frank Turrick says, it did happen.
The Roman army came in the 70s.
And when it says that the stars fall from the sky and all that stuff, that's just symbolic language for saying,
there's going to be a calamity on them.
Inspiring philosophy says, well, you know, prophecies in the Bible are contingent.
And we didn't fulfill our end of the bargain, which was preaching the gospel in all the world.
So it's like, that's a huge problem.
One of my, Jason Rollins, one of the Archbishop's, the patron supporters,
actually pointed this out and said, why don't they, because I got the draft up there.
And he's like, why don't they all line up?
Why do these reasons, if they're so clear, why don't they all line up from people of the same faith?
And so even now that the Bible is canonized, there's still a same problem that early Christianity had is still happening.
Yeah. And even then, you know, famously like Martin Luther started removing shit from the Bible because he was like, no, this isn't right.
You know, like he hated, he hated James because James thought that faith came by works.
So he didn't want anything to do with the book of James.
He ripped it out of his Bible.
Wasn't he like a raging anti-Semite as well?
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
He's becoming really popular again.
Yeah, he was, he was bad.
Yeah.
Did you have to, did you have to learn much about the early church like Fathers and stuff when you were in theology school, like with your degree?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, right.
Yeah, we learned a lot about like the denominational shifts and what calls them to split.
Yeah, talk a lot about that stuff.
One of the things I've always wanted to do is to create like a, you know how you have an evolutionary branch of like the living organisms of life.
You know, you wear like species, split and stuff.
I wanted to do the same thing for Christian denominations because it's like 45.
There is one for useful charts.
Yeah, he's great.
He's got, he's got one or like two videos on that and it's fantastic.
Yeah.
I love that video.
Everything and I, I learned stuff from that video that I didn't even know.
I know it's so, it's so good.
Let's give a, I'll just quickly break up because that's, that is such a good.
I have also in the, in the, in the, as we say that they have his book on timelines of world history.
Oh, that's so good.
It comes with like fucking posters and shit.
Like, look at this.
It was a fucking gold mine.
It's awesome.
This is how my brain works and like some of my notes have everything laid out in like timelines.
That's how my brain works most efficiently.
It's like, bless you, sir.
Bless you.
That's how, that's how it, that's actually how I started to really enjoy Game of Thrones is I watched his video on the houses of Game of Thrones and how they all, and who was related to who and stuff.
And that made me understand the show so much more, but, but yeah, he explains it so well and his series is just fantastic and you can buy his posters.
Just great, great stuff.
But you know what else is also great on YouTube is, is someone called Captain Dadpool.
Can you tell us a little bit about your channel?
Yeah, so my channel is a bit like yours.
I do these long live interviews every now and then I'll produce a short clip.
Not very often.
But yeah, I'll get a lot of the scholars that kind of make the rounds on the different channels and asking the questions I want to ask.
Sometimes they'll send me one of their books.
Canada Moss recently sent me a copy of her newest book, God's Ghostwriters.
I can't wait to get a copy and read that because yeah, I can't believe like she gave me this book.
She'd mailed it to me for free and I was like, oh my God.
So I got to read it in an interview before it even came out.
That's out now.
But it's one of those like, I can't believe I'm getting to do this.
It's nuts.
Yeah, I was very, very, very honored when things like that happened.
Yeah, it's incredible.
Go check out, so go subscribe to Captain Dadpool.
It's some great channel as well.
And I do usually do them drunk.
Do you really?
Yeah, usually I'm drinking the whole time.
I don't have them drinking.
Usually I'm drinking like, you know, that's a great point.
I like the way you said that.
Oh, so you just got Durante on as well.
It was Durante drinking because I swear that I swear.
I'm not sure if he really, oh man.
It's such a fun interview.
He's such a fun person to talk to.
He's so good, right?
When he jumped on, he's like, oh, I've been pre-drinking.
And I was like, yeah, that's awesome.
Yeah, so back to the Trinity.
Like, so where do you think, so, oh, you got some more notes?
Oh, no, you don't have notes.
No, sorry.
So where do you think it all kind of like ends up?
So when does it become official church doctrine?
You mentioned a council in 383, was it?
383, yeah.
So before that, there was the Aryan controversy.
This is what the council and I see it was convened mostly to deal with.
Aryanism, not like the white supremacist group,
biker gang people.
Aryans were a follower of Aryan.
And he, the Trinitarian formula that he had,
still believed that Jesus was subservient to God.
There's a reason there's this ongoing theme.
So many people are saying that Jesus was a servant of God,
because that's what's mostly taught in the scriptures.
But eventually, but the view that won out was,
sorry, scatterbrained moment.
The council and I see it was not concerned with the role of the Holy Spirit.
Like I talked about a little bit about Arya.
There's concern with the relationship between God and Jesus.
And what they landed on is God and Jesus are the same person.
They've always been around and they're equal.
But the Holy Spirit was an afterthought that they didn't really care.
And then later they were like, oh, we got to put the Holy Spirit in there too,
just to make it all nice and neat.
And that happened at the council of Constantinople.
The weird thing is,
Constantine is the reason that everyone went with this view and not Aryanism.
At the time, there was two or 300, depending on which record you read,
bishops in attendance at the Council of Nicaea.
And they argued for like a week or something.
And Constantine showed up and he was tired of the fighting.
He showed up halfway through these debates.
No, towards the end.
It was like the fifth day out of six days or something.
And he didn't say anything.
He sat back and they kept fighting.
And he thought this was a waste of time.
He's a new ruler of Rome.
He's got better shit to do.
So this was trivial to him.
And when he started to end these debates, he started endorsing this creed
because this creed was written by Athanasius prior to him getting there.
So he was like, let's just go with this.
This is what we're going with.
Let's take a vote.
And of course, you're not going to vote against the emperor.
So everyone, with the exception of Aryus himself and two of his followers,
voted against it.
And they were exiled for voting against the emperor.
But Constine had a nephew, I think, who was Aryan.
And on Constine's deathbed, he was baptized by his cousin.
This, in effect, made him Aryan because that was a belief.
Whatever denomination or belief you get baptized by, you adopt that person's belief.
So Aryanism, like, came back on the rise.
And there was Emperor Theodosius, who took over after Constine died.
Or his son died and then took the whole thing.
But at this point in time, Theodosius was emperor and he went back to the original view of Constine
and was like, with the help of Athanasius, was like, this is what we're going with.
Everybody get on board.
If you don't subscribe to this views, you don't get tax breaks.
You're not allowed to hold legal status, depending on what version of Christianity,
especially if you're Jew, you're getting kicked out.
Your shit's getting taken. It's going to be given to the Catholic Church.
Get on board with this view or there will be hell to pay.
So that's what, that's where the church went.
Yeah, it was a very politically motivated decision.
Had nothing to do with sincere beliefs.
It's exactly like what's happening in the United States today.
Everyone's claiming to be the representative of true Christianity,
but they don't give a shit about what the Bible actually teaches.
Yeah.
It was the same back then.
There's political reasons for the way these things formed and the reasons they formed.
It's an old cliche that the winners determine history,
but in this case, it's absolutely the truth.
These are the guys that won.
They call the shots now and you don't have another choice.
So it had nothing to do with how you read the Bible or understand the Bible
or having the correct relationship with Jesus had nothing to do with that.
Yeah.
That's why we're here having this conversation today.
1600 years later.
So going back, well, maybe we could, maybe we should,
I'm going to like hit you with some things from early Christianity.
What do you think changed from?
Let's let's grant that what the Bible teaches in the Gospels about Jesus and stuff is.
Sure.
True.
Factual or happened, whatever.
What do you think was different between that church and the church of that council,
like when we get up to the Trinity?
Like early on, did you think the disciples believe that Jesus was the Son of God?
Or do you think it that transformed later?
The Son of God, yes.
But the Son of God is is a term that's used other times in the Old Testament.
King Solomon is called the Son of God.
I think King David is called the Son of God.
I think it's Ezekiel.
It's called the Son of God.
Might be wrong about that one.
Yeah.
This this was just a term used to describe someone who had a unique and special closeness with God,
a special relationship with God.
Didn't mean literal son, like Jesus or God gave birth to him somehow.
But that's kind of what it became.
Like God's little son.
That's that's kind of what I mean.
Did the disciples initially think that Jesus was just like God's special friend or that he was literally born of a virgin?
Like, do you think those would it depends on?
Like, I think Paul believed that Jesus was existent with God in the beginning,
but was subservient to God until his sacrifice.
I think Mark believed that or the author of Mark and his community believed that Jesus was a man that was specially chosen by God to be his servant.
Matthew and Luke believed that Jesus was born, the Son of God, like through the Virgin,
but not equal with God, like still a divine being may be pre-existent or with God,
but not certainly not equal with God.
Even John doesn't say that Jesus was equal with God.
Yeah, what they believed is and they didn't believe Jesus was God either.
They believed he was a divine being.
Paul called Jesus God, but he also did not say that he was Yahweh.
Like Paul still believed that Yahweh was a higher being, but Jesus was the one that they were supposed to be worshiping.
You wanted to talk about, you said that one of the arguments is there's no pagan influence on the Trinity.
Yeah, let's talk about that.
Okay, let's talk about that.
Yeah, I wanted to talk about that one.
Because that was something that IP said, right?
Yeah, I don't know, did he?
He didn't say it in that video, but I'm positive he said that.
Okay, at some point.
Yeah, so let's talk about that.
Because inspiring philosophy said that maybe we should watch the video actually.
Just so we have a few context, not taking any matter of context.
Let me just quickly find it.
But we might not watch the whole thing because it does go for 10 minutes, but here we go.
It's eight years old, so.
This is a Trinity of pagan deity.
You won't believe how often I hear it is from Unitarians and Christmethers.
Christians just believe in a three-headed pagan deity that Jesus didn't teach.
The evil bishops added to it much later by blending Christianity with paganism.
It doesn't reflect that the Bible teaches.
Oh, I know what that is.
Worship the true God, you evil pagan.
Of course, they never provide any data that demonstrates Christians stole the Trinity from paganism.
And in this series, we've already shown how the Trinity is taught throughout Scripture.
So if Unitarians wish to show the Trinity is really a stolen pagan deity, they must do this.
Show the doctrine of the Trinity is specifically taught in pagan literature prior to Christ.
And that Christian.
Wait, go back a second.
Yeah, what?
Trinity is really stolen pagan deity.
They must show doctrine of the Trinity is specifically taught.
Oh, okay.
Keep going.
Sorry.
I was just going to say that if Unitarians wish to show that Trinity is really a stolen pagan deity,
they must show the doctrine of the Trinity is specifically taught in pagan literature.
Well, hang on a second.
It's not specifically taught in Christian literature either.
So let's hold the same standard.
If we can use ambiguous statements like go baptizing them in the name of the Father,
some of the Holy Spirit, we can probably do the same thing with pagan literature, right?
Anyway, let's keep going.
And that Christians stole this idea.
First, the doctrine of the Trinity is summed up in three points.
There is one God, God has three coexisting eternal persons, and each person is fully God.
If this doctrine can be shown to be anywhere in paganism, then they might have a case.
Now, Trinity pagan theorists do try a number of pagan legends to try and show a connection, which we should examine.
For example, conspiracy theorists and Jehovah Witness, Robert King, who tell you that Trinity is nothing more than the ancient pagan deity of Nimrod and his supposed wife, Semi-Ramus.
Just a little thought.
Isn't Christianity a big conspiracy theory, essentially?
If you think about it, really, all these old verses about Israel and stuff, they're actually meaning the Messiah.
Let's look into the old testament and let's tweak the Israelite religion and make it...
I'm glad Christians are calling it a conspiracy theory.
According to himself, since he doesn't give a source, Nimrod and his wife will worship his God and goddess.
When Nimrod died, his wife miraculously gave birth to him as her son.
Thus, Nimrod was the father and the son.
Therefore, the Trinity is pagan.
There, see how easy that was?
In fact...
So, yeah, I've got any notes so far?
Michael probably loved me for saying this, but no.
The Trinity was not stolen from pagans.
But, however, comma, it's not nearly that black and white.
Nothing was stolen.
Just like the Trinity evolved the way it did because of the author's influence from philosophy.
They were influenced by similar ideas.
Dr. Robin Walsh says that she doesn't think that any of the early Christian ideas make any sense without...
Was it platonic thought?
It was like...
Yeah.
And I was like, damn, that's interesting.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Or like the Buddha is enlightened and then, of course, he starts teaching about reincarnation.
Because why?
Because everyone in that culture just accepts reincarnation as like how things happen.
Yeah.
And in Hinduism, they believe in a divine substance, I guess you could say, called Brahma,
that expresses itself in three different personalities.
I have to write this down because I can't remember the names.
Brahma is the creator.
Vishnu is the preserver.
And Shiva is the destroyer.
Right?
Same divine substance that manifests in three different personalities.
Now, no, this is very different from the Trinity.
But so is everything the early church fathers were saying different from the Trinity.
Now, it was common in the ancient world in all kinds of different cultures to worship a Triune Godhead,
but just three gods, right?
That weren't connected in any way, really?
Or one and the same, really?
So like Egypt had Osiris, Isis, and Niftyas.
Those are like the three main gods at the top of the hierarchy, right?
In Greek of Zeus, Hera, and Athena, and Romans had Jupiter, Juno, and Minerva.
In fact, there was a temple on one of the seven hills featuring those three gods.
This idea that there's three main gods, main dudes, or ladies.
That was a common thing.
That's the world that these Christian early church fathers grew up with.
And not even just pagan.
Like you go to Jewish literature.
Where did I put that?
The book of Enoch describes the Lord of the spirits, the elect one and the divine power,
each partaking of the name of God.
Philo of Alexandria, who was alive during Jesus' life.
Born earlier, but he was a Jewish philosopher.
His writings are nuts.
He called the divine and heavenly wisdom by many names.
This is Philo writing.
He called the divine and heavenly wisdom by many names.
And he made it manifest and that it had many appellations for he called it the beginning,
and the image, and the sight, and the sight of God.
Other places says for it was impossible that any though this is going.
It was impossible that anything mortal should be made in the likeness of the most high God, the father of the universe.
But it could only be made in the likeness of the second God, which was the word, the logos.
So Philo was teaching that the logos is another God, a second God, and could make beings that were equal to himself.
So these ideas are in ancient Jewish literature as well.
This was not, this was around.
This was happening.
This was the world they were growing up in.
These are the ideas they were hearing.
Did they steal it?
No.
But did they pull it out of their own ass either?
Also no.
They didn't come up with this concept.
It's interesting because I used to be a video game developer or indie game developer, and three is everywhere.
Like you play any video game, you've got to hit the boss three different times.
It's weird that number three is somehow in our psyche.
I don't know if it's like a...
We use three examples of our cringe Facebook posts.
Exactly.
Three examples.
There are three steps.
It's strange.
I wonder if that is like a holdover from past traditions, or if it's like something within innate human psychology that we like to bring.
One of the things that every culture has examples of, like I said, Egypt, Hindus, Greek Romans, they all had three main gods, right?
I wonder if this is me just like...
There's a comedy rule of three as well.
Nirvana.
Nirvana is a stand-garden in Ellison Chains.
I love Nirvana in Ellison Chains.
But it's also interesting too, because I wonder if it has anything to do with the child-parent symbolism.
They have two parents, and you're the one child.
So that idea of...
That's how you first interpret the world through three, through your mother, father, and then you.
And that's how you kind of engage the world.
I wonder if that has anything to do with it.
I wonder if you brought up a bunch of kids with like five parents somehow.
And I wonder if their psychology would be different if you do that.
It's just food for thought.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Similarly, the idea of a god taking the form of a human, that was...
That's in the Baki.
Bakius takes on the form of a human as a god who takes on the form of humans so they can dwell among humans.
These are normal things that are happening at the time that these things are being written, and these ideas are being thought of.
When you were first deconstructing...
You struck me as someone who knows a lot about history and mythology and things like that.
Did you start to notice a lot of similarities between other gods and other stories, and this seems to line up...
Yeah, that's like my favorite thing is going back and reading a lot of the things that I'd already been taught from a more objective lens and be like,
oh, this, and you're connecting dots.
And yeah, that's like my favorite thing about doing research is connecting these dots.
Now, I try to be very careful not to do the parallel, low mania thing.
Dennis R. McDonald love him, love his book.
But he reaches in a lot of his conclusions, I think.
So I try to be careful not to do that.
But in a lot of instances, like in what we're talking about today, you can see how this idea progresses over time.
It's laid out, it's plain as day.
I'm not adding anything to it. I'm not taking anything away.
I'm just reading what's happening.
The Trinity is not fucking there until the fourth century.
Period.
You can make all these little jumpy conclusions coming from a perspective of a Trinitarian and go back and be like,
the Trinity isn't here, it's here, it's here.
This person's talking about the Trinity.
No, they fucking are not.
Sorry.
They're talking about their own shit.
Just to round out this conversation a little bit, how would you think that if we discovered that,
well, let's say you Christians discovered that the Trinity wasn't, let's say we find the lost gospel of,
I don't know, who's a disciple who doesn't have a gospel?
The lost gospel of Mary or something, I don't know, even though there is a gospel of Mary.
And it talks about there's no Trinity, it's explicit.
What do you think would happen to, do you think that would be accepted by Christians,
or do you think that they would just not accept that doctrine?
What do you think would be the...
I don't think anything could.
Like at this point, the doctrine is so solidified and Christian thought and has been for so long,
that if someone produced a letter that you're written by Jesus, signed by Jesus,
was dated to the life of Jesus, had signatures on it from the disciples.
Yep, this is Jesus right here.
And it says the Trinity's bullshit, wouldn't say that because the Trinity wasn't around yet.
But if it said something like, I am the servant of the Father, he is greater than I,
then they would be like, that's fake, that's not real.
They do that now, look at the Gospels.
Mark, the earliest gospel.
Jesus is pleading with God in the Garden of Yosemite to let this cup pass him.
The cup is symbolic of God's wrath.
I don't want to take your wrath, please take it from me.
And he's up on the cross, God, why have you forsaken me?
Is he fucking talking to himself right now?
Well, yeah, they would say that that was modalism.
They would say that his person is talking to the person of God.
But again, that would be modalism.
It comes to me.
It wouldn't be modalism.
Yeah, they say that.
I know how they would argue for it.
You know, it kind of all sounds like tricks to explain it away.
But yeah, from the plain reading of the text, Jesus is consistently praying to God.
He's consistently telling his followers to look to God, especially in Mark.
Jesus doesn't talk about himself very much in the Gospels, in the Snoppe Gospels.
He's talking about God and the coming of God's kingdom, 99% of the time.
Then in John, he starts talking about himself all the time, almost exclusively.
That's why John was so unique from the synoptics, because he's talking about himself.
He's not talking about the God or the coming of the kingdom.
Can you explain the synoptics and John when they were dated?
I vaguely know.
We get Mark first, right?
But can you explain your understanding of how it works?
Yeah, Marcus first is generally dated to about 70-ish CE.
Matthew and Luke come about 78-75-ish CE.
There's debates, of course.
There's always debates.
But the general consensus is about this, 70-80 CE for Luke and John, or Matthew and Luke.
John is generally dated to about 90 CE.
A lot of scholars think that it's actually second century.
A lot of scholars think that Luke and Acts is second century, too.
I haven't been convinced of that yet.
But I think it's very plausible that John was early second century.
One of the reasons is because the early church fathers, like Clement, they don't quote John.
Justin Martyr doesn't quote John.
Is it Justin Martyr?
They quote all the other Gospels, but they don't quote John.
So they think maybe John wasn't around yet.
Or maybe it was, and just nobody had seen it yet.
Anyway, that's the idea.
I wonder if has anyone done this?
Has anyone put together the events of each Gospel in regards to who God is, the miracles and things,
and put them in chronological order to see if there's a trend?
Because I get that very same impression.
I get the impression that Mark is the least...
It seems to me, because we have the ending of Mark, right?
The original ending of Mark is just the empty tomb.
We don't know where his body has gone, and that's it.
There's no resurrection.
There's no disciples meeting the resurrected Jesus.
But then the other Gospels have that, and then there's another edition of the end of Mark that was tacked on.
Has anyone put together a list of chronological events that you could see how these ideas of Jesus develop over time?
But at the same time, there would be issues that, because from my understanding, these are Christian communities, right?
They're kind of separate, in a way, from other Christian communities.
And they're obviously not written by Matthew, Mark, Luke and John.
No, most likely, anyway.
Yeah, there have been attempts to do things like that.
I couldn't point you to a source right now.
Yeah, and that's kind of how the proposed Q document came about.
People trying to compare the Gospels, and people noticed how most of Mark is used by both Matthew and Luke.
But Matthew and Luke have a bunch of the same information between them that Mark does not have.
And if you put all that information together, it kind of makes a whole other Gospel.
Yeah, but one of the ways they date the Gospels is how some of the ideas changed, especially about the Christology of who Jesus was.
Like, first in Mark, Jesus was a dude who God chose.
Then Matthew and Luke, Jesus was chosen by God at his birth.
And then John comes around, and Jesus was God from the very beginning.
And one of the reasons we know Mark is the earliest Gospel is because it talks about the fall of the temple.
This is one of the reasons we know Paul was earlier, is because Paul never mentions the falling of the temple, because it hadn't happened yet.
The falling of the temple had no place in prophecy, according to John, because it hadn't happened yet.
He didn't know it was going to happen.
The Mark comes around, and he describes it in very vivid detail.
He mentions it in passing.
But then Matthew and Luke describe it in much greater detail.
So it's like Mark's probably writing, like, while this is happening.
But in Matthew and Luke, it looks like it has already happened, and they're plugging it in as a prophecy.
John comes around, doesn't talk about the fall of the temple at all.
In fact, John says that we are the temple.
So it's like they're adapting to how things are changing.
And it's kind of like how you mentioned the He Will Come Soon thing, right?
This is one of the reasons we know 1 Thessalonians or 2 Thessalonians was not written by Paul, but 1 Thessalonians was.
1 Thessalonians probably believed that Jesus was coming in his lifetime.
He thought he was going to experience Jesus coming back.
But in 2 Thessalonians, he lists out a whole bunch of things that are supposed to happen first.
He's like, the temple has to be rebuilt, and then the Antichrist has to come and sit on that temple, and then Jesus has to come and sword fight him.
So that's how you kind of date these things and observe how the ideas change over time.
Interesting.
And that's exactly what happened with the Trinity.
They're trying to adapt with things that are constantly changing.
So when ultimately Jesus didn't come, people started coming up with all kinds of excuses as to why Jesus hasn't come back yet.
They started thinking maybe we haven't reached enough people.
Maybe we need to start doing missionary work.
We have to convert a certain number of people.
So yeah, this has been done a million times.
Everyone trying to explain away.
Shutting off.
No, that was good.
I had very much the alcohols affected me.
Those two shots on an empty stomach in the morning has been fun.
But there's someone on Twitter who said to me the other day, and I want to get your take on this.
And this is totally irrelevant.
Kind of irrelevant.
What am I talking about?
It's kind of relevant.
But they said to me, let me just find it.
Frank Turrick said, how can skeptics test the truth of Christianity?
And I said, one way would be if we had objective evidence of the truth claims of Christianity.
Man, I really wished God didn't make it so tricky.
Because if we had like, you know, this is the truth claim.
And then there's this claim and that we could go test like it was objective.
That'd be great.
And then this guy called Jim Wright said, maybe investigate the evidence for the resurrection of Jesus.
And then I said, I'd love to.
Can you point me where?
Point me to any.
So my question to you is, and I guess, well, if anyone's got any questions like posting, because I think we'll wrap up on this question.
But my question to you is, how do you count now for the stories written about Jesus resurrecting?
How do you get around the argument that people say that these are historical sources?
These are accounts from people.
We accept accounts from other religions, not religions.
We accept accounts from other things that aren't of lesser degree about other things in history.
So why don't we accept the stories of Jesus being resurrected?
Why don't you accept this?
What do you say to someone who says that?
I would say, why do we accept this one and not reject all the other similar accounts?
Because like the empty tomb narrative, we have like a couple hundred examples, stories of tombs being found empty.
The reason is because tombs got robbed a lot.
That happens a lot.
There are laws against that that they wrote.
You can go and read them.
So why did none of these people resurrect?
But Jesus did.
Interesting.
So things like that.
What makes these stories?
Do those stories have examples of the disciples coming up to Jesus?
After coming up to a person being seen that was robbed, being seen later?
I'm sure there are, but I haven't read all of them.
So I imagine you have a naturalistic explanation for a lot of these things.
What is your naturalistic perspective on the miracles and things?
What do you think is going on here?
I don't think Jesus was given a proper burial at all.
Okay.
I actually had a long discussion with Inspiring Philosophy live on TikTok about this.
Interesting.
We were going back and forth and he was like, look, why don't we just have a live discussion?
I was like, bet.
It was really good. It was really good conversation. I enjoyed it.
But of course, neither swayed each other.
My position is Jesus would not have been given an honorable burial.
But to the Jews, that wasn't a problem.
To lower class.
Okay. I don't want to spend a lot of time on this.
In ancient Jewish culture, the more that you had, it was seen that God gave you and thus more was expected of you.
So if you're poor, not much is expected of you.
If you're doing better, more well off, you're expected to show that.
There's scriptures in the Old Testament like, if you want to tone for this sin, sacrifice a goat.
If you can't afford a goat, sacrifice a pigeon or a bird or dove.
If you can't afford dove, you can give a grain offering.
So it makes these accommodations.
And if you read in the Tanakh, there's all kinds of examples of this.
So burial was the same way.
And I have sources for this.
If you're rich, you're expected to have a really nice funeral.
And that's why in the Gospels, Jesus' funeral becomes more and more emphasized and becomes more elaborate.
Like in Luke and John, suddenly there's women going there to anoint the body with oil, because that's the thing you did.
But the reality is, if you were a poor Jewish person, you just needed to be kind of covered in dirt a little bit.
And that's what they did when Jews were executed by the Romans or just executed.
They were thrown in a mass grave.
Their family members would then go take some dirt and throw it on their body.
That was considered burial.
And the idea was, you had to be buried in order to be resurrected.
Jesus being someone who was accused of trying to lead a revolt against Rome, who was executed in the most brutal way, the most humiliating way possible, would not have been given an honorable burial.
Because Herod would have had to give permission.
Herod was brutal.
He was impeached for how poorly he treated the Jews and how violently he was towards them.
He didn't give a shit.
So he would not have granted Jesus an honorable burial.
Because Barnabas talks about this.
He talks about how the punishment wasn't just dying on the cross.
The main punishment was being left up there on the cross as your body deteriorated.
Right.
To be left up as a warning.
Yeah.
Like you weren't taken down when you died.
That was not a thing.
Yeah, you were left up there to rot to be picked apart by scavengers.
They're rare occasions, very rare, where a body was taken down and given to the family.
But you had to either be a Roman soldier, because they got crucified too, or like an aristocrat.
Like you had to be an important person and have an important family to be able to do that.
And by Herod as well.
Did Herod ever let anyone go down?
I can't remember.
I think there might be one example.
Or maybe not.
I think there's just...
Yeah, I'd have to refresh my...
And I apologize everyone.
I'm very drunk, but did Josephus mention that as well?
Did Josephus mention anything about that?
Yeah.
What did he say?
He's the one who mentioned...
I think he's the one that mentioned the laws about who can be taken down from the cross.
Interesting.
Yeah, so all that to say, I think they...
This is why Jesus...
Paul doesn't mention an empty tomb, but he says Jesus was buried.
Doesn't mention an empty tomb.
Doesn't mention a tomb.
That's why...
Interesting.
That's all you have to do is throw some dirt on someone to be considered buried if you're a poor Jewish person.
But later the Gospels were like, they wanted to portray Jesus as being more important.
So they portrayed him as a rich person giving Jesus his grave and asking, you know,
pilot for the body, which that wasn't a thing as far as I could tell.
A random Jew coming up and going, hey, can I have this guy's body?
Yeah.
It is, again, it seems conspiratorial.
There was a rich guy and he gave a tomb and then Herod was okay, but just for this one time.
And it just seemed...
Yeah, I'd say why a lot of Christians jump into conspiratorial thinking.
To be honest, maybe that's just unfair of me, but...
To me, the evidence is...
I spent weeks on this.
I was super obsessed with it, but the evidence is insanely overwhelming,
I think that Jesus would not have been given a decent burial.
Interesting.
Well, we have one super chat.
So thank you so much, Hank Vashee, for the $20 super chat.
Anyway, we can sort of forensically resurrect the Christianity practice by those in Jerusalem
before the Romans came in and wrecked shop,
especially since we know there was friction between them and Paul.
Yeah.
So, like, is it like rebuild the early church?
Yeah.
Is that the idea?
Yeah, I think so.
Yeah, and you would do that by reading Paul, because he's the first person.
But...
He's writing very early.
Oh, Paul is...
Yeah, I'm not talking about Paul's like Christology or theology, but...
Yeah.
In his letters, he's writing to other churches that have been planted.
And what is he telling them?
He's telling them, sell all your possessions.
Go spend time in prayer.
Don't get married.
Why?
Because Jesus is going to come back like now-ish, right?
Don't give up all your worldly possessions.
Now you need to spend time in prayer.
That's what he's telling the church.
So that's what he's...
That's what we believe.
That is the earliest form of Christianity is Jesus was the Messiah.
He came.
And now they're waiting for him to return and take them all with him.
Yeah.
Well, I could be petty like Cameron Batuzzi of Caption Christianity and say,
by the way, 2000 years is not soon.
But I won't.
I'm bigger than that, much more mature than that.
So I won't make that joke.
Exactly.
That's the thing.
Like plain reading of the text, they thought this was going to happen to them.
Jesus even says, some of you standing here, he's talking to his disciples.
Some of you standing here will not taste death until these things happen.
Like some of y'all are going to die, but some of y'all are going to see this shit unfold in front of you.
That's what he's saying.
I'm so confetically to us today, which is...
I'm so glad you mentioned that.
And I've got an animation to show you as we jump off.
If you're a patron member, you've already seen that animation,
but I've spent a lot of time working on this cool little animation for the upcoming video that I'm really excited about.
But I just want to say thank you so much, Captain Deppful, for coming on.
I also want to shout out our patron archbishops.
That is Jason Rollins, Matthew Munger, Giselle Hammurabi, and skeptic and scoundrel Eric from Skeptics and Scoundrels.
So thank you so much, guys, for your support.
It really does make all the world of a difference.
Appreciate it.
Thanks, man.
I wanted to do something nice to say thanks to everyone.
So everyone gets a cartoon avatar if they join the archbishop level tier.
So thank you guys so much.
It really does make a difference.
And we'll see all you guys in a few days where we're interviewing Anja Loven and go subscribe to Captain Deppful on YouTube and TikTok.
See you guys.
Thanks for having me.
Thanks, guys, for watching.
Bye.
