වවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවව
වවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවව�
ṅවවවවවවවව Focus
illeurs have a
together as we discuss deep topics. And already we have had a multitude of final
and scheduling eras mostly on my part so it's been fun morning so welcome thanks everyone for coming out and let's just dump straight into this so my guest today is federal passes wife Emily who is a religious deconstruction
deconstruction advocate podcaster and content creator from Nashville Tennessee Emily is a creator of federal passes wife a tick tock account with 70,000 plus followers and federal ministries are refuge for those
questioning their faith she's been called a slave of satan lost and that she's going to hell sometimes sometimes Christians even leave comments demanding the spirit of the antichrist to come out that's right since I left Christianity
become I've come a long way now apparently you can come on the spirit of the interest to come out of people through the comment section will actually apparently it doesn't work because I'd like to welcome Emily and possibly the spirit of the antichrist welcome Emily
yeah that's hey guys
it's us
what an introduction yeah I see you've you've seen my latest videos
we're talking to the haters
you're you're it's amazing how much how much Christian love you get in the comments
no hate Christian love man
people seem to really
take issue with your your content and I don't even think it's I don't know why it's not even that like
brutal
well you should have seen me in my early days so when I started this it was
now I'm trying more to help people bring certain systemic issues to light and generally just have a fun and crazy time
but when I started this I was just sort of rage posting about my experiences and so the first video that I ever did that really popped off was called
five Christian concepts that make me do mental gymnastics and so I think that kind of set the tone for a lot of people because the Christians do not like being mocked
especially when you're mocking the Bible it is very very touchy so I think I kind of have a reputation because of that but otherwise I think I'm pretty tame
yeah I think you're you're quite tame I just I went through your entire catalog yesterday just like researching like for the interview did you like delete certain videos or like private them or something
I mean well I made that one private yeah because I was well I realized also that I had said something that was sort of inaccurate and so that I can handle the hate but if I realize that I've said something wrong then I don't want that to be like spread out but also the hate was really intense so there are
are some things that I've kind of been like okay I want to switch from you know rage posting and antagonizing Christianity to helping people who are leaving so the tone has shifted and I've adjusted thusly
yeah and that you can really see that come through in you know we normally promote this later on but I need to promote it now
feral ministries podcast people this is the awesome podcast is only like what two episodes at the moment I listen to the first one it's really really good really good production value and the topics are awesome yeah and there's a section in I haven't had the chance to show my wife
there's a section in here about talking to family about like how to have that that hard conversation when they press you about like why don't you go to church anymore and things like that so that was really like actually genuinely helpful so
thanks so much for listening yeah
it's really good and can you maybe give us a like explain to us where feral feral passes wife comes from where the name comes from
yeah um yeah I can so I I thought of that name so my therapist actually suggested that I start making tiktok videos I have been talking a lot about my religious trauma and sort of processing that the effects that it's had on my life while also having a real desire to do something creative so she was like why don't you start you know just just pump out you know one video a week
and I think in the back of my mind I knew this was what I wanted to do do like I really wanted to take this as far as possible so I was thinking about what to call myself and
while I was in line at sonic drive through I thought what better symbolism than a pastor's wife who has just gone fucking nuts because the pastor's wife is a symbol of someone who has power but is also on the other hand oppressed by the system that has given them that power right
and so it's just sort of this like I don't know this like dissonance and I just love that symbolism so I started doing that yeah calling myself that and it seems to be a hit so it like so I think I know the exact video that I because you know with tiktok you really follow someone like for for me I don't really follow many people but when when someone does something that's just so like I get like I can someone when someone does something that's just so like I get like I can someone when someone does something that's just so like I get like I can someone when someone does something that's just so like I get like I can someone when someone does something that's just so like I get like I can someone when someone does something that's just so like I can someone when someone does something that's just so like I can someone when someone does something that's just so like I can someone when someone does something that's just so like I can someone when someone does something that's just so like I can someone when someone does something that's just so like
just so like I can someone when someone does something that's just so like I can someone when someone does something that's excuse me so can someone when someone says so like I can someone when someone does something that's just so like I can someone.
So sometimes I don't feel like someone just creates an absolute bang on a video that I lose out I usually fold and I think I found the video that I followed you with.
I want to show everyone but but first what are we drinking well I forgot to even mention we're drinking what are we drinking what we're drinking, white Ration's baby, Merry Christmas happy Holidays insecure very very dangerous, very delicious so.
ścią
对
Let me give you another chance. Last May, I was scheduled for Legals in Nigeria. That's a long ways.
I just love how, you're just so on point. How long did it take you to do that?
Like an hour, not that long at all.
It's so classic, it's a great meme.
Thank you. He is so crazy. I don't know if you know much about Kenneth Copeland.
He is insane.
Oh, I do. Hang on, let me, this person, guys, we're getting to the end of the year.
This is going to be a little bit more casual than the typical episode, but let me show you something.
What do you know about Kenneth Copeland? A lot?
What do I know?
More than I want to.
So I don't know, I couldn't find this anywhere online. I actually ordered the DVDs of this.
And I don't even know if it's going to come up.
But I spent $35 on Kenneth Copeland Ministries to get these because I grew up on these.
My mom, without a job, living on welfare, sent him $500 back in the 90s believing in the prayer or whatever.
But this, I don't know if you know about this, but this is an old Kenneth Copeland series.
Let's use this country to our advantage.
We can ride a good ways in these streams and we might come across a buffalo trail.
Why do we want to do that?
Well, Elmer, if those outlaws decide to follow us, it'll make it awful hard for them to pick up a trail.
So he's got like a trilogy of cowboy movies that are all about secular cowboy movies.
Like, well, they're like part of his ministry, so there's like a little alter call at the end and stuff.
But they're full big budget movies where like the bad cowboys come and then like,
so that one is from a clip called Treasure on an Eagle Mountain and spoiler alert,
what happens is an old man gives his son directions to a treasure map to where he left all his gold.
But then when Kenneth Copeland and his buddies help him find it, they open it up.
There's only just a Bible inside and the guy gets really mad and he's like,
ah, this is ridiculous.
And then Kenneth Copeland's like, that's the Lord's word son.
And then anyway, he decides to give his life to God and he's reading the Bible.
And then inside the Bible are the real instructions to the real gold.
And then he runs off and he gets the real.
Wait, what an M Night Shyamalan twist.
That's insane.
So he produced a movie that he also starred in for his ministry.
Yeah, I think I'm pretty sure.
And so like it's nowhere like I've uploaded it because I was thinking about doing like like watching it on stream.
And so I've uploaded it to YouTube doesn't get copyright struck.
So because it's so old now and you can only get it on DVD.
So we might actually watch it.
And for those down the bottom here, you can see with 1000 subscriber charity stream.
When we get to 1000 subscribers, I'm doing a six hour charity stream.
We might watch a little bit of it then who knows who knows who knows.
But but yeah, Kenneth Copeland amazing.
So crazy.
And what's what's even crazier is that he is not unique.
Like there are multiple Kenneth Copeland's which I could name.
I could expose them, but we all know who they are.
And it's just like OK.
Yeah.
I know it's I know it's crazy.
So you you how long it has been since you've deconstructed your faith?
Well, I mean, I see it not as not as much black and white.
I see it, you know, sort of as like a fluid process.
I think I'll be deconstructing my faith probably for the rest of my life.
But I got to the point where I could say I'm not a Christian in 2017.
OK.
So it's been a couple of years.
Yeah, that's that's similar.
I think that's similar to me, actually.
I think that's about the same time.
Really?
What was your background?
That's a good question.
But like church wise.
No, I was a Pentecostal youth pastor at one stage.
So, you know, sparking in tongues, laying out of hands.
Well, we have like sometimes we have like 110 people come like youth come to the youth group and, you know, would preach and very like very like.
Like kind of like Holy Spirit orientated church or group.
Yeah, about yourself and signs, signs and wonders.
Sort of the opposite.
I was Southern Baptist.
So in my actual the church that I attended or what I would have called my home church, there was a youth pastor who left because he believed that he could speak in tongues.
So very legalistic.
Not so much the signs and wonders.
I think we have the same cup, by the way.
Not crazy.
Sorry to get us off track.
But anyways, but I was I was raised Southern Baptist, but I admired so much.
Because all of my friends were really into Christian celebrity culture, so that of like Bethel, Hillsong, things like that.
So I was sort of in Bethel.
Bethel, like so we had this group of people in our church called that are called Bethelers, because they everything else was like not holy enough, but Bethel was like the pinnacle of holiness.
And they would always like, whenever we would play Hillsong music, they'd be like, oh, like, you know, like, we should be playing Bethel.
Bethel is like that.
Interesting.
Yeah.
And they'd be like, and they'd be like, we just went to a Bethel affiliated conference and they just keep the whole night off with two and a half hours of worship.
It was amazing.
And I'm like, two and a half hours.
I'm like, yeah, that's a long time.
Yeah.
That's a long time to stand.
Totally.
We were really, because I was a worship leader all throughout high school and early college, and I was really influenced by Jesus culture, which is sort of like a Bethel spin off like derivative.
You probably familiar with that.
I will, I will, I will waste my life is one of the songs I think or I don't know.
Yeah, yeah.
Chris Kilala, you know, that whole crowd.
But anyways, and I would go to their concerts and just so heavily influenced by them.
So I would take that back to my Southern Baptist church and it was so poorly received.
Like we would, we would like kind of marinate in the spirit during worship and you could tell everyone in the crowd was just like, like extremely uncomfortable.
So it's, yeah.
Did you do that thing where you turn, even though you're on stage in front of hundreds of many cameras and people, you turn around?
Did you do that thing where like, because Jesus culture, like they turn to the side or they turn around is like, you know, on stage.
Did you do that at all?
Or was that not something you're aware of?
No, like just turned around like to sing.
Like it was like, I'm not performing.
I'm, it was like a little like wink, wink.
It was like, I'm not performing to the crowd.
I'm having a moment with Jesus so they would turn and to the side and be like, oh God, like or whatever.
It's like a little.
We had our own variations of that.
Yeah.
I would say similarly, we would like take the shoes off, right?
That's a big thing down on the knees, you know, like singing with the mic out here.
No one can really hear you, but they see you like crying and singing, you know, like that kind of thing.
Definitely, definitely.
Oh, wow.
So, so what kind of Christian were you like Southern Baptist?
Did you believe in speaking in tongues or any of that kind of stuff?
Or is it not really?
I, I, hmm.
That, that specific question is really interesting because I really wanted to, but I think even at that point, there was something in me that was like, this is bullshit.
Well, I'd never had that moment.
I was like, this is a sign from God.
Yeah.
Okay.
So did you speak in tongues?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I can still speak in tongues.
It's, um, it's, it's, yeah.
But about a Kia?
Yeah.
That's, there you go.
You just spoke in tongues.
I just got chills.
But isn't that just making words up?
No.
So, like, so, well, okay.
I'll tell you, I'll tell you my story.
And, and, um, so I remember when I wanted to give the tongues, I went running, I went for a run or a walk at night.
And prayed to God to receive the gift of tongues.
Like I was kind of walking away from God at the time.
Like it's when I moved up with my dad and, and I was living with my dad and I was like, I went and prayed and I got the gift of tongues.
And then another time I went out, like I was just like praying and I think because I was by myself, I could just say it's not saying like, like, I just started like saying things that were coming, like just coming, coming to you kind of thing.
And the more you do it, like the more you feel the feeling, I guess the, the, or whatever.
Anyway, I did it twice and then I kind of like backslip, I guess you could say.
And then when I went to, I had this like moment where I became like what I would, what I would say was like my God moment where, you know, I was looking down at a puddle of tears and crying in the youth group when I after I walked away for a few years and stuff.
And, and I, and that's when I a few weeks after that we went to a youth camp.
So I got introduced to this.
I'm just going through my story quickly went to a youth youth camp and in the that youth camp was wild.
We like my friends were having that I knew from school were having like fits on the ground next to me for hours.
People were passing out in the worship sessions.
And it was in one of those where we're all praying for people in like a huddle that I started speaking in tongues again.
And it's kind of like it's one of those things where and they talk about this.
It's like you step out in faith.
So you start making noises and you step out in faith through those noises.
So yeah, and then eventually, but I will say there is a difference between what I did just then.
And when I'm really what I call slain in the spirit and then start speaking like it sounds different.
So do you still go to church then?
No, no, I'm an agnostic atheist.
I don't believe in God at all.
But the speaking in tongues part is still still feels true to you.
No, no, not at all.
Like I just think.
Yeah, I can do it.
I just don't think there's anything to it.
Yeah.
Okay.
Because before I said, you know what I said, right?
What did you say?
Shoulda bought a Honda, but I bought a Kia.
I didn't know that.
That's like what everybody at my church.
Shoulda bought a Honda, but I bought a Kia.
That's like the thing that people say when they want to pretend that they're speaking in tongues.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
I thought you were just like actually trying to speak in tongues.
No, no, but that's so that's so interesting.
I think like, man, I would love to believe some of that stuff.
I can't get past the emotional manipulation part.
Look, I love that.
You just was sitting here thinking that like I believe in speaking in tongues and you're like, what podcast did I just come on to?
Okay.
In my defense, you made it sound that way.
Hey, let's say I love brother.
Like I would have been like, yeah, like I'm interested.
I don't want to dismiss your experience.
I'm open to hearing about it.
No.
So yeah.
So like I guess like for people who may ask in the comment section, like I had these experiences and I had experiences that were incredible, incredibly powerful.
But at the same time that I was having those experiences, people from other religions were having their experiences.
I know people in other religions who talk about, you know, I had a family member who talked about going to some like eastern thing where they were praying for something that was happening in Tibet and they something happened in the room.
And they all fell over and they were laughing and like blessing each other and doing, you know, like just all it was like hysterics, right?
So just because so I had these experiences and then I try and attach a truth claim to those experiences.
Jesus and the Bible must be real because I'm having these experiences.
And then someone of another religion saying, you know, my religion Krishna is real.
Alla is real or whatever.
And attaching a truth claim to their religion.
I just don't think you can make that leap because it's there's too many experiences.
I don't deny the experience.
I just deny the conclusion that people reach from investigating an experience.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That makes a lot of sense.
Yeah.
And that's a lot.
Go ahead.
I was just going to say, I think it's important, important to to be honest.
So like this whole whole thing for me and we'll get into get into your story with the the Ken Ham versus Bill Nye debate.
I'm sure you made a tiktok about it.
I remember watching that and thinking, man, Ken Ham is like extreme being extremely dishonest in this conversation.
And Bill Nye just looks like he's really being intellectually honest.
And I think it's important that people you remain you remain intellectually honest.
So I have to say how it was.
Like that's how well how the experience was for me.
I don't try and like sugar coated or whatever or make it sound like I was all in my head.
Like I had these experiences.
I do believe they're all in my head or something was going on.
But I don't attach a truth claim to them.
I just go, OK, there's some experiences I had.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I love that.
And that's so true.
I mean, like Bill Nye even says in that debate or actually afterwards when they're walking through the arc at the creation.
Museum, you have to abandon a certain level of intellect to continue to make these claims because the truth is is even if you believe those things, you can say this is my experience.
This is what I believe.
But you can't say this is fact.
You can't jump to that conclusion.
And I think that's people want it to be fact.
But the truth is is if it's fact, then there's no faith involved, right?
There has to be faith involved.
And that's been something that I've been thinking about too.
It's like that my experiences are valid, but the claims that I make matter.
Yeah.
I think if you watch that video, I think if there's a few little sections where you can see Aaron Ra in the background, he's like walking behind.
I don't know who that is.
Oh, Aaron Ra.
He's like the head of the atheist of America.
I think he was.
He's like long head.
He made the foundational false sorts of creationism.
Yeah.
He's a big name in the atheist.
So he was with Bill Nye's crew.
Rowan was with the Nye.
No, no.
No, no.
He was just in the background like following them along like watching.
It's just funny to see.
Oh, there's Aaron Ra in there.
Like that's so funny.
I always assumed that everyone there was in the ham crowd.
Yeah.
Because it's at his place and it was in the middle of Kentucky.
So I'm like everyone there is his crew.
So yeah.
So what led you, I guess?
Like what kind of Christian were you and how did that your faith start to unravel?
Can you lead us through your journey a little bit?
Yeah, absolutely.
I'll try to keep it brief.
So I was raised in Christianity.
But on what I would say now is maybe like a more surface level.
Obviously it's a spectrum,
but my high school self would have called my parents lukewarm Christians.
And that's Christians.
Yeah, yeah.
So, you know, they're going to church when it suits them.
We're in church Christmas and Easter.
I know the Bible stories,
but nothing is being enforced at home spiritually.
And so it's more about the culture, right?
Than the belief.
So when I was in late middle school,
I was introduced to a group of people who it was not just a culture.
We could argue about whether or not it is.
But for me at that point, it was not just a culture.
It was a part of their DNA.
And so I was indoctrinated into that space as a young person.
And I became very, very involved with that church.
That's the southern Baptist church I told you was my home church.
And it troubles me how quickly it happened because I was so young.
I was sort of love bombed and immediately given a pedestal.
Like I was a worship leader quicker than like a New York minute,
like quicker than I could even blink.
And at the age of 13, you know, on stage in front of all these people.
So immediately as a 13 year old,
I am juggling, you know, my family isn't really super into this,
but like these people are telling me that there's this spiritual war going on around me.
And people are prophesying over me telling me I have a future in worship and ministry.
And so that changed the whole trajectory of my life.
I went to school to college to be a worship leader
because so many people had told me that that was what I was meant to do.
And that's the same with me and being a youth pastor.
Really people like affirmed that when you were growing up.
Yeah, people said like I literally had in that camp,
I had people stop the middle of a prayer meeting like other youth point to me and say,
you're going to do big things.
And I was just like, okay, and those three weeks after getting quite and quite saved.
So I had this like, this like, like on a Harry Potter complex, I guess,
like the one child, the Neo complex kind of thing.
Oh, totally. Because as a child for the first time,
maybe for some people in their life, their ego is being fed, right?
And that's a very powerful thing for a formative young mind.
And you would be surprised how high you jump when you think that God is talking to you through someone else.
And so when someone comes up to me, lays hands on me and says,
God just told me your future is in worship ministry as a 14 year old.
Of course it is. Why wouldn't it be?
So I really leaned into that, you know, it was the bubble,
which I'm sure that you can probably relate to when you're in that bubble.
You don't really experience a lot of other things.
You're not experiencing other ideas, other people with different ideas.
But that Ken Ham, Bill Nye debate was the first time that I felt the critical thinking part of my brain kind of start to rev up
because we were in youth group when they showed it.
And we were all sitting there and they were playing this.
And of course everyone in the room is on Ken Ham's side, which is creation.
For those who haven't seen, it's a debate about whether or not creation is a viable model of origins for the universe.
And at that time everybody's like, oh, Bill Nye is an atheist. Can you believe it?
I don't even know if he is. I think he is, isn't he?
But it's like he's a very soft atheist and it's not like a...
Or is it?
He's soft in this because he didn't want his personal beliefs to detract from the evidence.
But in real life he's very vocal about being an atheist.
It's amazing to watch it like 10 times.
Oh, it's amazing.
And a lot of people didn't want it to happen because they didn't want to give Ken Ham a platform,
but just the range that it provided to the millions of children watching in church like me at home
who was looking around the room like, are we not going to admit that Bill Nye is sort of smashing right now?
Like he's saying so much that sounds really true.
I think they actually cut it off early if I believe or if I remember correctly
because they were kind of like, uh-oh, uh-oh, he's making a little too much sense.
So after that I was kind of like, hmm, maybe I should start exploring different ideas.
And then college was when I really started broadening my mind.
I joined a comedy troupe. I was introduced to a lot of people who did a lot of drugs and loved them.
They really opened the door for me to sort of accept that you can be good morally
without a religious standard, like a religious compass.
And so that was really interesting and I've been on that journey since.
And it's gotten easier and easier, but I am constantly surprised by how deep the programming is
and how triggered I've become about certain stuff.
It is really, after all this time, like it will be a lifelong journey, I believe, for me to deprogram fully.
What triggers you if you don't mind asking?
Well, for example, when I first started doing TikTok, I was surprised by the things that people would say
that really triggered me.
Also, I'm sorry, I just realized I might need to go and grab my Mac computer.
I was so flustered that I didn't, my Mac charger before this started.
I'm so sorry, maybe you can ramble during that time, but yeah, it's very okay.
Yeah, I'm triggered by TikTok comments.
People telling me that I'm going to hell.
People telling me that I was never a Christian really triggers me because you have no idea how Christian I was, right?
I know.
You have no fucking clue.
Yeah, and family reaching out randomly, we get letters and texts from certain family members conveying their concern for us.
And that's really triggering.
It's a lot.
I just love when someone tells you they're not, you were never a true Christian and then you look at their profile.
I judged them so, they'll have political alliances in their bio or they'll swear in their comments.
And it's like, buddy, I didn't even wear brand name clothes because I thought that I'd be idolizing those companies.
Chill out.
I was there.
I used to walk past rubbish and have a compulsion to pick it up because I thought that that's what Jesus would do.
I stopped talking to my parents for a week because my mom drank a glass of Cabernet with it.
I'm going to grab my chopsticks real quick, sorry everybody.
No worries.
And I'm going to take this time to promote our lovely podcast.
It's actually good, it's great.
And of course, Ferrell Passer's wife on TikTok, it is so good.
Great content, funny, but also informative and helpful, which is really awesome.
And of course, everyone, we next week is the last episode of Deep Drinks Podcast and we have Derek, who I was talking to this morning.
And it's going to be called, it's going to be the Derek Knows Everything Christmas Special.
Because Derek literally talks to more biblical scholars and professors of religion and like literally he is the person on the internet putting out such a diverse amount of academic thought around religion.
So what better guest to have on the Derek Knows Everything Christmas Special, where I'm just going to sit there.
It's going to be very casual and we're just going to sit there and we're going to ask him questions.
Jesus' mythicism, what really happened with Jesus in the tomb?
Like what are the different perspectives?
Did someone hide his body?
Did they not hide his body?
Like who wrote the Gospels?
We know that they're anonymous, things like that.
So we're going to be just drilling Derek about this over a latte.
For me, it'll be 4 a.m.
It's going to really piss off my roommate who shares a, we share a wall, but he's okay with that.
And yeah, it's going to be awesome.
So if you like content like this, make sure you subscribe to check out that.
And then we actually have our second guest.
I haven't announced the first guest, but the second guest of Deep Drinks Podcast is 2023, which is Seth Andrews.
And we're going to be going over Seth Andrews' book, Deconverted, as well as his story, which is obviously an amazing atheist advocate.
So that's going to be, he runs the Thinking Atheist blog and YouTube series.
So fantastic stuff.
So anyway, Emily, you are back and I just realized I wasn't even sharing the screen.
Sorry, everyone.
Derek knows everything, Chris is special and there's the Deconverted with Seth Andrews.
Today has been an absolutely nightmare with the tech.
I've been, I don't know what's going on, but I've been stumbling around like crazy.
I've got, I guess I've got too much on my mind.
Have you got your charger all good?
Yes, we're good to go.
I've also been flustered today, so sorry about that.
That's all right.
It's a flustered kind of time of year.
Autumn Sweet said, your story gave me chills.
At 13, I had the same worship leader experience, scarily similar.
Thank you for your comment.
Hope you're in therapy, girl.
Yeah, definitely.
How good is therapy?
You got a therapy?
I do.
So good, right?
It is really, really, really good.
You have to click, you know, you have to shop a little bit to find the person that is going to help you the most.
But yeah, I've been going for over a year now and the personal development that I've seen has been tangible in my life.
So highly recommend.
I've been going to therapy.
You know, I used to have a really bad anxiety disorder like after I left the faith or ran out, Tom.
And I've been seeing someone, you know, it's different people for years.
And now I just see someone like spontaneously like every four or five months and we'll go back in and talk about things.
Yeah.
So it's been really good.
But one thing, there's this meme that I saw and it was like so accurate.
It was like the worst part about going through therapy is then having to deal with people who obviously need to go to therapy but just refuse to for the rest of your life.
And it is so true.
It's just like people come to you with their problems and you're like, just go to therapy.
Please, please go see someone like you can be so much happier.
You don't have to struggle like this.
I think everybody should be in therapy and it's kind of like, you know, the people that I've talked to, at least in my family who I'm like, you should really be in therapy.
They're like, well, I don't have, I'm not having a crisis.
I'm like, you don't have a crisis every time you go to the doctor's office.
Like you go to make sure that you're preventing disease, right?
So it can be, I think the older generations especially have very different opinions and just experiences with therapy, a lot of stigma attached.
Yeah, it's like a lot.
It's like, you know, the older generation is like, oh, did you hear that?
She's in therapy.
It's like, it's like a secret where this generation is like, so what my therapist this morning and like walking to a coffee shop.
It's like, yeah.
Yeah, I'm glad it's being so normalized.
So I think it's incredible.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's, it's, it's really beneficial.
And I have, funny enough, I have people in my friend circle and my family who won't go to therapy.
Because they believe that it's like, they very much need to go to therapy, but they believe it's like turning their back on God.
Because they believe that God, God, God should fix their problems.
Like not going to therapy is like stepping outside of the realm of faith.
Yes, I never heard the idea of mindfulness of mental health even really when I was in the church.
And that's because you are supposed to be dependent on God for those things.
And if, if you're not okay, then it's a you problem, right?
Like either you're not believing hard enough, praying hard enough, like the posture of your heart is not right.
It's incredibly, incredibly damaging.
Yeah.
Hugely.
So, so did you have like a moment in your journey where you're like, okay, like now I don't think I'm a Christian anymore.
Or when you like, how did you go from watching the Ken hands?
Versus Bill Nye debate to being like, okay, this is, this is, this is whack.
Like how did you make that transition?
Good question.
You're a talented interviewer, by the way.
I when I'm interviewing people on my podcast, I kind of lose my way, but you're really saying, you know, focused.
So that's really I feel like I feel like I'm not, but thank you.
But like I had someone who mentioned that recently.
I think what it is is I only been.
Bring people on when I have like a hook in my mind that are like, I want to know more.
And then like I, I seriously sit there and for me, it actually comes from a very real place.
Like none of these are shallow questions.
These are like, well, I guess some of them are.
But like the point is, I want to get to know you like legitimately as a person.
That's why I started a podcast to interesting people are interested people.
And I just want to everybody that you meet is an expert in something that you don't know.
Anything about.
So I think that's, that's a great attitude to have.
But yeah, I took religion classes.
As I said, I went to school for worship ministry.
And when I started taking Bible classes and I hear this a lot from people who went to seminary.
Things started to unravel, right?
You learn a little bit more about the historicity of the Bible and all that jazz and things just weren't really clicking.
And at that point, the critical thinking part of my brain, as I said, was sort of revving up and taking, taking over for the first time in my life.
And so I started studying and I honestly saw too much.
And eventually it just kind of felt like, and I'm, I don't know if I feel this way anymore because I take a lot from my Christian experience that I probably wouldn't have been able to admit a couple years ago.
But at the time I just felt like, okay, so I've been lied to.
I have been straight up lied to for years.
But it wasn't until I think 2017 where I could say out loud.
Those terrible, terrible words of, I don't think Jesus was the son of God, which any other time would have been just the most immense sin, right?
To say out loud and admit to yourself.
And so that was kind of when I was like, okay, nobody's going to strike me down from heaven.
If I say this out loud.
Wow.
Wow.
Yeah, it's, it's this weed.
It's, it's a weird thing.
It's a weird thing to do and I still have fears that like I'm going to say something wrong or blessing the Holy Spirit or something.
We that kind of stuff.
Do you ever have fears like that?
Or.
I
Well, I'll start with I've never even as a Christian had a fear of hell.
I deconstructed the idea of hell much earlier than I deconstructed my Christianity.
But I do have fear that
I have chosen the wrong thing.
And because if I have now it's not just about me, like I'm, I'm advocating against these things.
So I'm bringing other people down with me.
And that is an anxiety that haunts me sometimes.
You know, and, and, and the, and just the idea of I once loved this character, this character of Jesus who still such a beautiful, beautiful narrative, the life that he lived.
Am I betraying him?
Like, is he real?
But I can't tell you the amount of times I have just cried on my knees in my bedroom saying, if you're real, please just give me a sign.
And those are always the moments that sort of drag me back into reality.
Like, you're okay.
This is just the way that you were raised.
And because of that, there are going to be fragments of it through your whole life where you feel really guilty and you feel like maybe you've been led astray.
People will say, you know, you're a slave of Satan.
As you said in my intro, I get that a lot.
Things like that.
And sometimes like maybe, you know, one out of 16 times I hear that.
I'm like, am I, am I being possessed by a demon right now?
Yeah, yeah.
So why, why bothers me so much is there was a time where people said, you know, people at school would tease me and they go like, would you do this for God, would you do that for God?
And I was like, I'd murder everyone in the world.
I'd murder my entire family if God told me.
Yeah.
And I was like, I'd kill myself.
Yeah.
If someone held a gun to my head.
Yeah.
Yeah.
100%.
Like wouldn't even bother me.
100%.
Like wouldn't even blink.
And like it wasn't, it wasn't that I wanted to kill everyone in the world or kill my family or whatever, like or be as, but I was trying to get across a point that like, if I knew it was God, there's nothing that, that's, I couldn't wouldn't do because God was everything to me.
But now I don't believe in God.
Oh, geez.
Like that's a pretty high level of faith to have in something or belief to have in something that you would literally die for this thing.
And now I'm not convinced that there is a God.
So, oh, like, how do I know that I'm not going to be looking back at the time I am now and being like, oh, like I'm wearing orange robes.
I've got a shaved head and I'm like, why are you like this?
Like Buddha is the only way.
Like how do I know that I'm going to be.
Yeah.
And that's the thing is we don't know, right?
Like we are all individually in this life trying our best to do what we feel is right.
And I think the difference is, is in the Christian worldview, there is a very clear right and wrong.
My worldview now is right and wrong is subjective, right?
Like every right and wrong is just a manifestation of the collective dysfunction, like of the person's ego.
And so it's just, it's like, how could I blame myself down the line for this because everybody's just trying to do the best they can, which is why I have a lot of grace for evangelicals, Christians that I feel like are doing harm.
It's not about the belief for me.
It's about the system of oppression.
But yeah, that's very beautiful what you said.
It's like, how are we going to know, you know, where we are in 10 years?
I try and exactly.
You know, I went through my edgy atheist edgelord, my atheist edgelord days as well.
But where I was like really mad at religion.
I'm not, I'm still mad at some things.
Like I'm still, I'm still, I'm still get like angry at the human injustices or when someone, when someone starts defending slavery, that really bothers me.
Like in the Bible, like a lot of Christians will, will start defending slavery and saying, oh, you know, and it's like, oh, come on.
Like, or especially like, you know, we have a, I have a lot of LGBT friends and it's like, it really bothers me when people start going after them.
It's just like.
Yeah, so I'm in the rage.
I'm in the rage phase right now.
So what comes after this?
Like what phase are you in?
So are you in the rage phase, a rage phase or still?
I guess I'm sort of transitioning, but I still feel motivated by rage.
Maybe like 20%.
Oh, I still, yeah, I still get.
I'm still like, I, but it's like waves.
But like when I talk about my edge Lord Atheist days, like I was trying to have conversations with everyone.
Like I was like, it felt like I, I needed to like bust my hope and then scratch my brain.
Like I just constantly wanted to like, like question people and their beliefs and stuff because it was like to me.
You said it perfectly before where you said like, it's not, it's, you know.
For me, I never really thought that I was being lied to.
I thought that if anything, the church was just mistaken.
But then when I realized I was being lied to, that people were actually malice league saying like an iron rago is over this, especially with creationism.
There's quotes of like apologizing.
I know the fossil record that says this, but I believe it's important to teach this because otherwise it'll leave people away from God.
Or I know that, you know, there's literally a quote, it's okay to lie if you're lying for Jesus.
Like, and that just blew my mind.
And when I found out that like, yeah, that I was just going to say, like, I, I think that you can be lied to without the other party being lucid enough to, to are conscious enough to see that.
So like, I thought I was being lied to, but I also accepted that they have no idea.
Like just, I was told a lie, but I think they really believe it.
So you think that people are actually know that this stuff is not true and are lying to people about it.
There are, there are some people who actually, yeah, they're very much like that.
They will actively, they'll actively, like I would say Ken Ham is someone like that.
And you can tell like he's a little angry about angry at the world because of like that.
Ken Tovind, I think, I think part of it is like, part of it is like tap dancing around questions that may be ambiguous for them.
But then I think sometimes they're just blatant lies and they know their lies.
And they're just okay.
I would agree with that.
Like the celebrity grifter crowd, I think definitely.
But like when I think back to my church experience, I'm like, do I think those people were lying?
I don't know.
I think they were, they, I think they thought it was true.
Yeah, no, I'm with you there.
I think that most people in church, in the local church or whatever, like they, they think it's true.
Yeah.
Or they, or they, or they tweak things to be in favor of their perspective, I guess.
Because I used to do it.
I used to do it.
And like you talk a little bit about, you talk a little bit about emotional manipulation in worship songs on your TikTok.
And I did the same thing.
You quoted and said, I don't know if I wrote down, or you was talking about getting an emotional reaction from the crowd.
And I used to do the same thing.
And then I went to a men's conference that they did an old school and they went, it was a Hillsong men's conference.
Sydney, 2009, I think.
And they were like, they were like, you know, everyone heads about eyes are closed.
And then they'd say like God, God is calling you, come out the front, and then he'd be like, I'm going to count to three.
And when gets a three, I want you to come out the front.
And then he'd be like, one, God loves you.
Well, he cares about you.
he cares about you like you need to like if you feel a pounding on your heart that's God talking calling you to the front to there's no one is going to love you and it was like the 123 it's like the building up of anticipation to get someone to and what I used to call it and what my the youth pastor took over from
me to call it he used to say the job of a preacher was to get people to walk to the end of the diving board and to dive into the spirit of God that's the idea that's the goal of a preacher so I knew was manipulative
but I thought it was manipulative in a good way I thought it was like getting people past people's flesh so that they could open this spirit and emotions up to God and that experience you just illustrated is so universal to like I have been in hundreds of those moments alter calls where they are like if you feel your heart pounding come to the front like of course I feel my heart pounding
like this is a really awkward moment like I'm here with my mom and my dad and my grandma and we're all like closing our eyes like it's just it's so it's such a tactic
such a really is
I would be remiss I think that's the right word but who knows my brain is all over the place today but I'll be remiss or I would it would be unfortunate if we didn't actually talk about the topic of that's in the description of this video which is pure
I have got a lot to say about purity culture and we we there's wink wink not a chance there may be a possible panel coming on this channel in the new year so stay tuned for that everyone make sure you subscribe but
can you give us tell us about purity culture what did you experience in the church when it came to purity culture
actually I yeah I need to I need to I need to preface all of this with a quote that you quoted from someone else who quoted it from someone else on your tiktok sometime I think I've written this wrong some of the some of Satan's best work is accomplished by women talking to women yep you quoted it perfectly unfortunately
unfortunately
that's a real quote
yeah yeah I have such
complicated feelings about purity culture it hits such a nerve for me and just generally sexism in the church on my newsletter today I literally before I hopped on here I was writing a newsletter about biblical women womanhood and
sort of how that has shaped modern gender roles and it's just a really touchy subject because we are unequal like Christian women can say whatever they want you're unequal you are not viewed as an equal in your church and that is just a fact and
I don't care how progressive your church is Christianity is built off of the oppression of minorities that's just the history of it and it's not even debatable at this point like that is a core cornerstone of the religion and I think that that manifests a lot in purity culture but the purity culture that I talk about and that a lot of people talk about is a
it sort of encapsulates a time in evangelical history just as much as it is a movement I think a lot of the people who are my age and your age can probably talk about very similar experiences about purity culture like when you were told about sex in church if you are a woman there was either catch up in a white shirt involved a flower with pedals being picked off of it
there were stickers there were pledges and oaths oh yeah did you while you were a man so you might not have gotten that talk but what was your what was your experience so I was on the other end of that so I didn't I didn't grow up in church so I but when I was like 16 and above I was running those meetings and being part of people who run those meetings but it was essentially the men's groups became like anti masturbation clubs like how long can we go without masturbation
and let's text each other and pray for each other and be accountable to each other for not masturbating it was and it was so funny and it's so funny I actually had a it's so funny because I had even queen on back in like fifth episode of this podcast we're up to like 36 now something so it's really cool but I there was there was
um so girls what I what I realized was was girls were taught to cover up right this is what I get tell me if I'm wrong girls were taught to cover up to like don't show a centimeter of cleavage to like have a long dresses and stuff because you're going to be like tempting men right making men stumble
to give you some idea I would be dressed like a sex worker right now in my past church
wow wow yeah yeah wow well we're we're friendly to sex workers here as you can see absolutely but like shoulders were not a thing not okay not okay yeah yeah yeah so um so but but in the so women were seen as like like that but men were seen like we were taught like you know you like essentially you are a predator you are like you won't be able to help yourself and you need to like like pray that shit away and um
so what would happen is we would go like we talk about like porn masturbation and this is well like 13 year olds like 12 year olds now look back on a creepy but um they were all doing it because like whatever the instant these days but they will talk about like about that and it was it was like we had like me and my friends like in our age group like 18 19 or whatever would would have like will be a candle to each other and we had like a men's group that we would go to but we would text each other when we were quote unquote
so there's no masturbation right no masturbation no porn nothing and we would even go into video stores like back when blockbuster was a thing and be like this is a quote war zone because there's so much sexual imagery everywhere I need to get out of here but anyway um but we would text each other when essentially when we were horny and the other person needed to pray so we didn't mess up and masturbate so um did that work no it was horrible and you would like I don't mean to get too graphic but like oh no
dudes would get dudes would get good to get like blue balls and be like yeah like physical yeah but like the what's funny is like the start of the week it was usually okay but then by the end of the week is like pray pray pray pray like you just get messages all the time like pray pray pray pray pray
so like and you'd be hanging out with someone and your body would like oh you get a message and you'd go outside and you'd be like what's he doing and like he'd be praying outside because like Ben the other like changing names obviously but Ben is like horny and he needs to pray for him and it was so wild and then they come to church on Sunday
at the end of the week and you know um Martha has like you know she's 45 years old she's got like one centimetre of centimetre of cleavage showing and all the men are like I can't control myself because they're so like horny because I haven't masturbated for like a week so it's like this it's like this self fulfilling prophecy in that like your predator so you need to like hold back and then women are like showing like too much ankle and then
it's turning dudes on because they haven't masturbated for so long and then it proves to them that they're a predator and it proves to the women that they're like
need to cover up because you're making men stumble like it's crazy yeah and the women in church by the way we feel that energy like I was on an all male worship team throughout high school and
I am a very I'm a people person like connection means so much to me and I wanted to be accepted and liked by these guys so much not in a romantic way just in a friendship way and I never felt like I could get there because I constantly felt like my presence was a stumbling block
and that was communicated to me like I I constantly felt like they will never see me as a friend because they see me as an object and it's true right like if you can't have a conversation with a female without having to go and rub one out in the other room like that's
not a friend and so it's it's almost like you're so obsessed with sex to the point where you are ruining relationships with people and Christian men women Christian women listening cover your ears Christian men watch porn at the same percentage and frequency of every other
man in America
yeah interesting
what that's that's actually really interesting do you have statistics on women because I know one thing that I I learnt to is that like one thing that was a little bit offensive to me on behalf of women it's like why can't women be sexual like
why can't women like why like this isn't the 50s where like the wife just grits her teeth and just like with the husband like going to town for three minutes like this is like women can have orgasms women can like lost after people like why why is it it's almost like it's it's misogyny in a different way it's like why can't women be disgusting
yes
well as as a general rule and I don't want to generalize but a female at birth person typically is a little bit more easier to control in those spaces and I I'm just speaking from my experience because I didn't know that women could orgasm until I was in college.
I never had comprehensive sex education other than abstinence only and that had incredible repercussions on my romantic relationships as I deconstructed because I I never
I never had any sexual urges in the church because I was kind of taught that that wasn't really my
space
maybe that's just me I'm sure there were women though that were that felt more like lustful and stuff like that I kind of just wanted to be like like accepted desperately like I just wanted to be in a relationship because I wanted to marry someone
but I know that there were women in my church who definitely felt more sexual at that age maybe I was just a late bloomer but I think generally women are kind of programs to think that that's not really their area of expertise
or an area of interest for them because they're supposed to be the lily white virgin brides on their wedding night and then instantly shift into porn star mode the moment that they get married
yeah exactly
the
amen
and
actually Aaron Ra
he's talking about Aaron Ra this episode but Aaron Ra actually mentioned in one of his videos that the highest
I don't know if there's statistics drop to date they're probably not they're probably 10 years old
but where they there are certain states in America that do only abstinence only sex education
and those those states have the highest rates of rape abortion and repeat of a teen abortion and repeat teen abortion
yeah
so it's like I've heard someone I've heard someone who was pretty pro they were pro life they were slightly pro life but now they're pro choice but at the time they said I want to curve the amount of like people getting rate
sorry abortions by teaching sex education in school by giving free contraception to people like that's how you tackle these things but these things are being they're being tackled
but that's a very very polarizing notion most of the pro life crowd would say that they think that we're over sexualizing youth by teaching them comprehensive sex education and the truth is and the statistics show that comprehensive sex education informs and empowers young people to the point where they're not in those
difficult situations but for some reason there's so much debate over that and I think that that is a big mistake so so when you when you got so you're married now right
mm-hmm
mm-hmm
yeah cool cool I think I've seen in some of your tiktoks yes we'll be married one year in January
oh how awesome
anniversary coming up
oh how exciting so when when you first started having sex or getting married or whatever did you did did you have any like guilt around sex at all or anything like that so no for me so my wife and I slept together for the first night on our wedding night we were full on Christians
um and we and for me guilt has always been a social like there's always been guilt around sex even with my wife like nine times out of ten I'll feel anxious leading up to sex or anxious after sex and only like one time in a ten I'm like oh this is great everything's fine and I and I it's all because of the purity culture
you still experience that
yeah sometimes yeah
sorry
it's been like eight years and I still I still well it's not it's not so much it's not so much anymore but it's definitely like
um without getting too graphic the difference between I feel more I feel guilty when we do I guess more lossful kind of like sex instead of like I suppose like making love so like I still feel a little bit guilt towards that
I would say that I agree with that yeah when you get into more like kinkier stuff it's kind of like oh this isn't how God intended it huh
yeah exactly exactly yeah yeah
but yeah to answer your question that did have a lot of repercussions not in the same way though um so I had sexual experiences outside of my marriage and outside of my current partner
um but I didn't feel guilt I think that was something that I was able to sort of decondition myself from however the implications that um no one prepared me for pornography in a marriage or in a relationship
not to divulge too much but like that that's something that no one talked about with me yeah so I had a really hard time accepting that in my relationships
they the church sort of represents this image of a man and a woman or you know obviously only a man and a woman in the church but people in a relationship in my world
uh being only lustful and in love and attracted to each other there was never any talk about okay we're in the real world we're humans we're animals essentially right like we are
sort of like monkeys at this point um you are going to have attraction to people outside of your marriage your partner is not going to fulfill all of your needs emotionally or physically
and that's something that was never talked about and so hard for me to wrap my head around because by the time that I was starting to feel like sexually liberated
I was so so monogamous to the point that I was like jealous over everything and luckily I'm in a very open and loving and accepting relationship now where like I I see things for what they are
but because I didn't grow up with porn use I thought it was a really personal thing like I thought okay you're watching someone else have sex you're in love with them right like you
you see something in them that you don't have in me and I would just personalize it to a point where I was torturing myself and um but that was because I never had experience with it so now as a growing person mom and dad
don't listen that I has experience and enjoys the use of pornography I'm very like open and I understand now because there's no exposure to that stuff in the church I think it has detrimental effects on people in relationships when they realize like oh we've been married for 50 years
and um you know I'm not going to fulfill every need that you have
it's actually there's a really good book by I forgot who it is who wrote it um let me just look it up for making in captivity
and it's about sex yes by Esther peril it's fantastic although it is quite confronting because it talks about like essentially like it talks about like
different things work for different couples some couples love to be really monogamous some couples like to watch porn together sometimes yeah there was this story about like this couple that was like happily married and for like 30 40 years stuff started getting like really like
like so getting really frustrating for both of them and the way they solve that was the the man would go and like go visit prostitutes and that worked really well for them totally and I don't mean with what I'm saying by the way there is not a right or wrong way to do it I just
was only in one way yeah yeah and that's the thing it's it's just it's really it's for me I was the same it's like really like I remember I remember actually so I saw I saw porn at like
six years old like like really young yeah and like shown to enjoy it at that that age I don't know if you probably you probably call it a form of like molestation or whatever but like it wasn't like I wasn't raped or anything but like a friend of an older brother friends brother or whatever showed
mean he's brother how to like watch porn and like enjoy it like and so yeah definitely yeah it's definitely not you know I'm not going to report him and like get him like sent to the police because he's like he's on but like still it's not cool yeah I don't like saying molested
though because like there's there seems to be like a spectrum between that and like getting held down and there was an innocence that was taken from yeah yeah yeah yeah I remember asking like are you sure this isn't illegal because it's just something about it felt wrong.
Not to get too dark.
Holy shit.
But then you know when I was later on when I was like 11 I 11 or 12 I first like learn about masturbation and and like pornography and loved it like huge fan huge fan of porn.
But one of the things and that was always like the thorn in my side right that was always like the thing that I wanted to remove in church and I remember talking to a therapist actually and they said to me.
I hope one day you and your wife can like watch porn together or like enjoy it together or whatever because he's like because he said to me like.
He's like you seem so anguished but he's like but you're describing things that are pleasurable like watching porn but you seem so anguished about that and I was like yeah yeah and then and then when he said that I hope one day you and your wife get a watch porn I was like I actually got rid of that therapist I was like this guy is loopy he's insane like.
He's like this is that would never like that is such the opposite of what I would ever consider in a proper marriage or whatever.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I won't go.
I won't go in too much detail but let's just say my wife and I have come a long way in that regard and we're a lot more free in our relationship but it's just um it's it's very interesting how purity culture and.
The way you taught about church way you taught about sexual relationships in church can be so juvenile.
Like so.
One dimension.
It's almost like if we water it down enough maybe people won't ask questions but human desire is so much more complex than have sex inside of marriage and not outside of marriage right like there's so much ground that's not covered and so we're kind of left in the rubble having to pick up the pieces and figure out what it all means.
After the fact and turns out it can be a really beautiful thing and turns out human desire and pleasure not a bad thing not evil definitely not evil.
And relationships can look any way that you want and what matters is that you have trust and love with your partner or partners right like life is what you make it and there's just such black and white rules about what you can and cannot do especially inside of purity culture.
But damn yeah I'm glad we made it through.
I'm glad you guys are.
Hey yeah it's awesome.
Cheers.
Cheers.
When you when you're saying before.
Like when you said like oh you know kinky sex and stuff I imagine I was gonna make this joke and I imagine like drew in like a little dress like coming out and.
Totally perfect.
Little nurses outfit.
Exactly exactly.
Exactly.
Exactly.
I told I told Amy my wife I was like I'm gonna get some beautiful Lacey your lingerie for our talk like what are you talking about.
I'm like yeah beautiful like.
Happy Valentine's Day.
I love it.
I love it.
Something I did want to touch on before we wrap up and if anyone has any questions feel free to ask in the in the comment section.
I see a lot of comments here I haven't had a chance to read them because I'm focusing on the conversation but I see a lot of.
Had a watch porn for dummies is that a thing.
Just DM me I'll tell you how to do it.
So you said something that like blew me away because like I don't I didn't know anyone that had and this is just such a tangent but I don't know anyone who has such a similar thought which was.
As I did is you said it's easy to be an asshole to the earth when you believe that it's going you're going to be raptured.
And I was like.
Right.
Damn that was that's such I used to believe the same thing about climate change and stuff like that right.
Do you ever come home from your house and you're like where is everybody did I miss the rapture and just freak out because your mom and dad aren't answering.
No we never had it we never have big.
Me neither.
Where we had.
We so but what I used to say was so this was a stupid analogy is coming with it was partly a joke but it was partly not.
So you say have you ever cleaned up your room as you tell everyone have you ever cleaned up your room and it's really messy and like you clean it and it's like perfect and then you're like you're so happy and you sleep better and it's just nice and clean.
And they're like yeah I'm like yeah well that's that's that's awesome right and like yeah I'm like cool.
God can do anything in like a second and he's going to renew this this earth perfectly and I was like so what's what's more enjoyable to clean up a totally destroyed earth or that's pretty good and I used to make this joke as if like we should just trash the earth.
It was a joke but it was also like I didn't care about climate change like Jesus was coming back in five years why do I care about climate change.
Yeah it's.
Yeah it's so true that and they they can say be a good steward they can say yeah take care of the earth.
But when you feel like Jesus is coming back and and everyone I've heard from says that we are ushering in the end times apparently I'm part of that since I'm the anti Christ but they say like yeah.
Next time next time I have you on I'll get you to wear like a like an anti Christ filter on snapchat and I'll interview you as the anti Christ.
Okay I would love that I really really take that places and get in the character.
But yeah being good stewards of the earth doesn't mean much when you do feel that the earth is disposable and you feel that you know Jesus is coming back which news flash in the Bible.
Jesus told his disciples that he was going to come back during their lifetimes and unless I missed something I don't think that he has so it's like this is the only earth we get right and and even if you do believe Jesus is coming back.
Can't you just get on board with like solar panels like what's the fucking problem.
Yeah what what if we make this this earth better for nothing.
Yeah exactly yeah like why are you just because it's political though right like it has become a political issue which means that if your pastor says vote for Trump not to get to political but you're probably not going to support climate change right.
That's the thing is is like and you can even see like Jesus said explicitly in the Bible like I tell you the truth people standing here will not taste death until they see all these things happen.
Some of them coming on the clouds etc.
And it's like I don't know how you get around that.
They find the way.
Yeah I remember one of these like pastor he had a masters in theology that I used to go see as a counselor he's a dickhead now.
But he would say that there was a second death the second death is like so he made up this like second death and there's like a heavenly realm like and anyway all this kind of like stuff but it's it's clearly not what they're referencing and you can even see Paul getting insecure about that.
In the later books of you know 40 written 40 years later after those were written he's getting nervous about it and he's like you know well some people say that Jesus was supposed to come up and he's getting like you can see I wish I had the scriptures but you can see he's getting like anxious about it even in the Bible and it's like I'm making excuses.
The Bible is is sort of like sort of like a workshop that I took at Joanne scrapbooking store when I was growing up.
You kind of just take whatever parts fit with that page and you paste them in and forget the rest and just little snippets you know when it's convenient for you and when it's not convenient for you then you have four different concepts that Christians can choose from from each denomination and pull from and decide oh yeah.
Well that's the second death you know obviously like Jesus yada yada yada it's just so comical.
Yeah what do you think about the resurrection because that one thing that gets me is it is pretty historically.
Like we have a lot like we have a lot of sources like ancient sources written within 50 years of the resurrection happening what are your thoughts on that that you know on the resurrection.
Do you think I'm mistaken or do you think that Jesus body was stolen or something or like what how do you how do you guess like we have I'm slipping into an apologist mindset but we have evidence of like Jesus resurrection.
More we have more evidence of that than we do for some of the other things that we take for complete granted like that we take for granted we don't take for granted in history so like actual like proper events yeah.
Well I mean I would say first of all I don't claim to be an expert on this stuff I'm always open and if the evidence is presented I'll change my position at any moment in time I have done some what.
You shouldn't do that.
No I mean if enough evidence is presented that's the thing is like I am open to new points of views.
You're the Bill Nye you're the Bill Nye I'm the Bill Nye right like like I'm skeptical.
But I did have a correspondence with with a friend that I used to go to church with through email that was really interesting because I messaged him actually like maybe a year ago I emailed him and I was like hey.
I'm really wanting to like dig back in now that I have solid footing in like my agnostic atheist whatever is identity.
I want to relearn the history of the Bible from from an actual historical unbiased perspective and he sent me a bunch of stuff it was like case for Christy you know very circular reasoning sort of books.
But but you know I think like if the resurrection is true.
That makes things true right like that makes the soul of Christianity true because the soul of Christianity is not based on you know whether or not homosexuality is a sin it's based on whether or not Jesus rose from the grave.
And I'm just very skeptical I haven't seen enough evidence for it I would love to see your sources but I think my mind also goes to like why aren't we seeing that now like it's awfully convenient that we're not seeing that now.
I don't know if you remember Bethel Bethel a couple years ago one of their pastors daughters sadly passed away and they spent five days trying to resurrect her through prayer.
And when that happened I was really hanging on the edge of my seat I think even though in my heart and in my mind I knew it wasn't going to happen.
I was like yeah they worshipped around her body for like five days.
That's brutal yeah that is so sad.
And I don't wish any you know obviously it's so terrible for that family and I hope that they're healing but it was just like I was like is this going to happen and when it didn't I was like OK so we're back to square one right like it's obviously not going to happen.
So the thing that really stands out to me is the book of Mark is our earliest gospel.
Also if you want like some really excellent like history kind of stuff Bart Ehrman's books amazing you know Bart Ehrman is no is the great a professor of New Testament studies at.
I don't know but he's written 23 books and he goes right into his and he's actually he's actually not a Christian anymore he was a Christian when he started seminary but he's not a Christian he's like one of the leading experts in the New Testament.
He sent me his name after this I want to oh God he is insane in fact Derek who we're having on next week has interviewed Bart and it's it's it's phenomenal but.
Sorry I'm going to go on a random tangent do you know so this is book Bart Ehrman wrote called Lost Christianity and in the first 300 years of Christianity before Christianity was like.
Canonize before the Bible was canonize there were different sex of Christianity like really wild sex Christianity so there was what he calls the proto orthodox which is what the Roman church under.
Caesar a bit drunk one of them.
Became became but then there was the what I call the Marcianites the Marcianites rejected the entire Old Testament.
They thought Jesus was a God that came to save us from the Old Testament God and that Paul was OK like Paul was awesome but they rejected the Old Testament as an evil deity that Jesus came to save us from these were Christians.
The Ibnites the Ibnites believe that Paul was rubbish like you don't trust anything Paul wrote which is two thirds of the New Testament.
You were a vegetarian you followed all the Old Testament laws they were essentially a Jewish sect then you have the Gnostics who believe that Jesus was a phantasm a ghost he wasn't like a real thing on this earth and and then he became the son of God when he got crucified.
You have these wide variety of religious perspectives within Christianity and that shifts when the road when Rome takes on Christianity is the main right right right and now there's a new way.
Well I'm David before we move on I got asked this so if you think that the resurrection happened how do you I don't know you don't know I keep misleading you play the devil's advocates so.
I love that I love that you're you know open to these perspectives so wait after all the evidence you've seen why don't you think that it happened.
Well I don't think there is so the evidence is like so what we have is we have a bunch of anonymous accounts written 30 to 40 years after the fact about this thing happening right but the problem is is and people will say well that's we have we have even worse accounts for things like Julius Caesar and what he did.
Not that I even know who Julius Caesar really is I'm really bad at history but yeah yeah but but the um but the the difference is is and I always point back to Schum for these things David Schum the philosopher David Schum he says.
He he says that that which can be used I'm gonna get this get this wrong my brain isn't all there but.
It's the like a test yeah a testimony is never a sufficient in a to establish a miracle right unless that testimony be so miraculous like it's it's it's just it's just approval be so miraculous that a great a greater miracle than the testimony in which it tries to in in devil yeah so.
I kind of point to that the fact that the differences is the story of Jesus resurrection is miraculous in nature.
Secondly there are multiple accounts of people being resurrected even today.
I was gonna say like before not to cut you off but before even like the accounts of Jesus and the story of his life there were other accounts of people who lived almost identical lives to Jesus like I think is Gilgamesh one I don't remember but who who were crucified and resurrected like that was a common narrative.
It's not Gilgamesh is a bit different that that follows the story of Noah.
No no no no you're good you're good you're on the right path there are a lot of you have to watch because there are a lot are a lot of people who will stretch that narrative a little bit too far like Bill Ma does that in his documentary where he says that there's all these religions that like I similar to Jesus it's not necessarily not necessarily true but.
But stories yeah yeah and there is like there's the epic of Gilgamesh which is one of the first pieces of literature that we've ever had and it has the great flood right has the worldwide flood and has a bird flying out and all that stuff and and of course a lot of people believe that the story of Noah came from a changing of this if you want to watch I had a seriologist on Dr.
Josh Bowen and he talks about this he's like an expert in the Old Testament expert in a seriology which is the study of esopotamia but anyway the thing with the story of Jesus is one you got a miracle so miracle is like okay well you're writing something down historically that's different to what Julius Caesar did if it said Julius Caesar was flying around the moon on a on a horse then I would say no that's probably not accurate.
Secondly the earliest accounts we have of Jesus resurrection don't mention the empty tomb they don't mention the empty tomb sorry they don't mention resurrected Jesus don't mention the virgin birth they don't mention the disciples encounter with the resurrected Jesus it ends abruptly at the empty tomb women went to the tomb they were like oh the tomb is empty that's where it ends that's where the original gospel of Mark ends and you can actually
meaning that the second part of the gospel was added later so earliest manuscripts ends at that versus 16 I think it is well then in the earlier version why was the tomb empty.
Oh well okay I can think of a million different well okay.
I don't know the tomb was maybe empty maybe maybe someone stole the body maybe.
Okay got it got it maybe maybe they got maybe they got the wrong tomb like right but like it's just very strange that they don't it's written 30 years after the fact and it doesn't mention the fact that Jesus appeared to 500 people it doesn't mention that Jesus floated off into the clouds it doesn't mention any of that it just cuts at the empty tomb why.
To me that's to me that's like the smoking gun to me that's like okay this is a bit bit silly but furthermore you can test the consistency of the Bible like the of the gospel stories and they're not.
There are errors throughout the whole Bible like the new the Gospels and I put them out and they're all written so far apart right yeah yeah yeah so that's why I don't necessarily subscribe to it and also even if let's say that there was a resurrection.
Like we have accounts like Sathrasai Baba a million people attended his birthday there was video evidence of him performing miracles and testimonies of people still alive today talking about how he raised them from the dead.
Eight people okay what but Christians yeah.
This book here called modern miracles Sathrasai Baba the story of the modern day prophet is like a he's like a guru Sam Harris talks about him.
And there was investigations into him so one thing is he used to make gold appear in his hands and gold watches and stuff but then when he died.
He they found a bunch of like watches in his apartment.
This is him.
He also prophesied that is that guy there he also he was a magician.
I don't know what he was I haven't read this book yet but he he prophesied that he would return 10 years like he would come back to life 10 years after his death he didn't.
So but the thing is one million people attested to seeing this like it came to his birthday party like his celebration multiple people attested to seeing him raise people from the dead with video cameras and everything in 21st century right.
I'm just like at this point it's honestly comical.
Well I well I feel like I need to clarify I don't believe this happened.
I'm just pointing out that that there are people who believe it and they have better than better than the New Testament.
Right if you go and follow that if you're going to follow the testimony of the New Testament why aren't you following you know so so to me that's why yeah yeah it's like human mind is a powerful thing very much very much so.
And for when I don't know the answer to something when something is too miraculous or something I go I don't know I don't have the answers I haven't I'm not sure but like if when someone can provide like a cohesive world view that actually works.
I remain agnostic yeah.
You strike me as a guy who likes he was seen a lot of miracles.
No I don't think so no okay you just strike me as a guy.
Okay all right well I'll tell you about them sometime.
I did promise we weren't going to go over 90 minutes so everyone I want you to all go check out for our ministries podcast please go check it out is really good.
I only listen to the first few minutes of this I mean super busy last couple of days and then they came in a couple of days ago.
We went to remnant fellowship last week the cult from the way down on HBO Max actually went in to like an event that they were having it's crazy.
I actually think I stopped it because I was like I don't know what this cult is like I have to look at what's the documentary like I haven't seen it.
Yeah yeah you got it you.
Oh yeah.
Okay so make sure you check out for our ministries podcast on Spotify is it on every other podcasting platform as well right now it's on Spotify sub stack and pod bean.
I'm trying to get on Apple but I'm having some technical difficulties with them so hang in with us.
Follow me and I will post when it's up on those platforms Google podcasts all of that but it's it's a passion project of mine I've loved doing it I have some really exciting interviews coming up so check it out it's very lighthearted but.
but also, you know, balanced with some heavy practical stuff about deconstruction from faith.
So, yeah, check us out.
And it's also, it's the very high production value.
Like you've got music in there, like it's, it's, it's good.
It's really good.
It really made me feel.
So bear with me.
I'm working on it.
No, it's really good.
I thought it was great.
It made me, it put me to shame because we also have our podcast on Spotify.
But I really seriously just upload the audio from what we're doing.
So, okay.
So make sure you go check that out.
And may as well plug mine as well.
If you'd like to listen to podcasts instead of watching them, you can check them out here.
Also, Emily on TikTok.
It's great time.
Funny, funny videos and great videos.
77,000 subscribers has gone up since yesterday.
That's cool.
And make sure you subscribe to Deep Drinks podcast.
If you like content like this, let's get into the Q&A.
Let's get into the Q&A.
And this time.
And we can go a little bit over David if we need to.
Okay.
Okay.
Yeah.
Look, I'll have to have you on again another time because there's like, we didn't even get to like one of the subjects I wanted to touch on.
But, but yeah, we should, we should definitely make some more content to get in the future.
Yeah, yeah.
So I've just got two questions for you.
And the first one is.
You'll know it because if you've watched the Bill and I versus Ken Ham to debate and it's what I started this whole podcast kind of with.
And I ask every, I ask almost every guest unless it's inappropriate.
What if anything would change your mind?
Anything at any time.
Enough evidence would change my mind.
You need the fossil.
I need the fossil records.
I need the ice layers I need.
But the thing is, I mean, I think, and I think where religion fails us as a society is it sort of programs us to be closed minded to evidence into the possibilities.
And I like to wake up every morning with an open hand and accept whatever feels or proves itself to be true that day and it's ever changing.
But I think that's the way to live life.
Right.
Like you you're always open to receive new truth.
And that's that's the way I like to approach life.
So I would say what would change my mind.
Anything anything could change my mind if it's compelling enough.
Yeah, that's good.
That's great.
That's a great answer.
I would.
Would you agree with that?
Yeah, I'm exactly anything.
Somebody on Facebook is like a wise man proportions his belief to the evidence.
And that's that's why I try to live my life by David Hume once again.
I just try and I try and I always try and take my emotion out of things.
Unless I'm talking about like art or music or something emotionally.
But but for the most thing when I'm trying to work out if something's true or not, I try and remove my emotion and I try and analyze the evidence as best as I can.
Yeah.
Right, right.
I think, you know, my previous life, my previous life as a very devout Christian was very wrapped up in identity and attachment.
And I really try to abstract myself from that nowadays because I don't want who I think Emily is to define what my truth is.
And I think oftentimes it's really easy to identify with the narratives that we tell ourselves to comfort ourselves in life.
And it's actually very freeing to sort of detach from that identity and just say, I'm just a human living on earth right now, which is crazy and insane.
And, you know, at the end of the day, just don't take this stuff too seriously, like just live life, like maybe the meaning of life is just to experience and learn and grow.
And so I think when you have that mindset, it's really easy to approach and accept new ideas.
I've got so many little clips and videos I want to send you and show you book suggestions.
So, and the last question, what is the most plausibly true religion you don't believe in?
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
What a great question.
It's good, right? Because you can ask both religious and atheist people.
Yeah.
Oh, wow.
I'm a genius.
I think flying spaghetti monster.
Really? Is that really the most plausibly true religion?
Okay, I don't. It has to be some Eastern religion.
I mean, I guess Buddhism is a philosophy, right?
Everyone chooses Buddhism. Everyone.
Well, it's a philosophy. It's not as dogmatic. I feel like, I don't know.
Maybe I'm wrong about that, but I already implement a lot of that in my life now.
God, religion, like give me some, like give me a multiple choice.
Islam, Hare Krishna's, Hinduism, Buddhism, Mormonism, Jehovah's Witness, Zoroastrianism.
When you say plausible, do you mean what I think I could make myself believe or just what I would like to believe?
I guess the one that like, okay, so you don't believe in the Bible, right?
I mean, I believe in the historical document.
So then adding Mormonism to it, that's like a third testament, that would be like more.
The way I look at it is like that's more absurd, right?
Because you're stacking on top of an already.
So I guess the one that's the least absurd, like the one that conforms the most with reality.
I don't think any of the ones you just named in my opinion conform with reality to any degree.
There was someone who called up the Atheist experience once.
Do you know the Atheist experience?
I do not.
You have to check it out on YouTube. It's amazing.
So people call up and ask Atheist questions.
Well, he's not anymore, but he used to be for 20 years.
So a Mormon called up and they said they could never get rid of their religion because they had a vision.
And in this vision, they felt like they went into the throne room of heaven and there was God, there was Jesus, and there was Joseph Smith on the right hand, right?
Or the left hand of God or the right hand of God, right hand of Jesus or something.
Yeah.
And I'm like, wow, I was like, this person is having a vision about something I definitely don't consider true, which is Mormon.
And I was just like, huh, so people can have visions about things that I think are definitely not true.
David, of course, when I was Christian, I would wake up in the middle of the night and audibly hear the voice of God talking to me.
You know how powerful the human mind is.
Yeah, absolutely.
And I can say today that was not God.
I can absolutely tell you that was Emily's brain, you know, just like swarming around the narrative that I was so deeply entrenched in.
Yeah, I believe that.
Have you looked into psychedelics at all?
No.
I've more than looked into it, brother.
Okay, let's talk about that sometimes.
I haven't done any psychedelics.
Well, I have.
I've done LSD once, but it was such a lot.
I was so stoned.
It didn't matter.
But there's a lot of research coming out now about like, you know, and I haven't had a full cyber.
Yeah, I've had friends who've had a little bit too much and gone a little bit schizophrenic.
You can do that.
Yeah, no, but this is like in a mental institution, like permanent kind of thing, like not really good.
So I'm a bit.
But for the most part, if you do it responsibly.
Actually, I'm not even going to advocate for that, but there is a lot of interesting research that comes out and I'd love to talk to you about it again in the future because absolutely.
So answer your true question.
What's the most plausible religion?
If you want to know, watch fantastic fun guy on Netflix.
Okay.
That right there is my most plausible religion.
Is that got the dude who wears a mushroom hat in it?
Potentially.
Oh, yes.
The mushroom guy and he like, he like was on a tree and like.
Yes, yes.
Yeah.
Incredible stuff.
Well, Emily there, that is awesome.
Guys, let me know if this interview was a little bit more chill.
I knew I've been super busy in this year, but I also knew Emily was going to be a great guest and be able to just literally have like a casual conversation with.
Let me know if you like these casual conversations.
If you like it to be a little bit more chill, a little bit more chill.
Okay.
So I was going to say Joe Roganesk, but I don't really want to associate.
But everyone make sure you go check out Ferral Passes, why Ferral Ministry podcast.
And Emily, is there anything else you wanted to say?
I don't think so.
I love what you're doing.
I think this is so entertaining.
I've watched a lot of your stuff already.
So thank you so much for having me on.
It was a pleasure spending my evening with you and all of you listening.
Thanks guys.
And I'll see you guys all next week for our last episode of the year.
See ya.
