Welcome, everyone, to Deep Drinks Podcast, the deepest podcast on the internet.
It is my great pleasure today to introduce Jeremy, a marriage and family therapist who
helps his clients process the complex intersection of religious trauma, sexuality, and relationships.
Jeremy is the founder and driving force behind Wellness with Jer, an initiative that seeks
to create a safe space for individuals navigating these intricate and deeply personal issues.
Having experienced firsthand the challenges presented by these intersections, Jeremy is
committed to facilitating transformational and transformation and growth in those who
seek his help.
You have seen Jeremy on Deep Drinks before, as a panelist for the Purity Culture Horror
Stories panel, which was a hoot, and we've got another one coming up very shortly, Sexy
Education, and he'll be on that panel as well.
Today we're fortunate to have Jeremy share his insights and experiences with us as we
delve into this conversation.
Let's remember the depths and sensitivity of the topics we're addressing, trigger warning
for anyone who is suffering through religious trauma.
Let's have a great show, guys.
Let's do this.
Hey, welcome, Jeremy.
Thank you so much for coming on.
Hey, thanks for having me.
It's really enjoyable to be talking to a therapist outside of my own therapist, where
I just talk about all the stuff that's going on in my head.
I actually have so many questions for people in therapy, so it's great to be able to talk
to you.
Yeah, for sure.
I like talking about mental health.
I like to be talking mental health to not just my clients, so I can just talk about
it in general.
Yeah, awesome.
So what are we drinking today?
As a mental health professional, what's the drink that you chose?
I have a vodka red bull.
I premixed it while I was backstage.
I have ADHD, and I wasn't diagnosed to later in life, and so I think I stumbled upon self-medicating
my ADHD with copious amounts of caffeine, my best friend in high school.
I don't know if you have this in Australia.
We have a red bull car that, like, on weekends, will drive around and hand out red bull to
people like in the city.
And so...
He was a hot girl.
He was running it.
His two older sisters were the red bull girls, and they'd just bring whatever they didn't
sell or give away home on the weekends.
So this is like back in the day, Xbox, original Xboxes out.
We're playing Halo, and they'd just bring us like, here's a bunch of half cases of red
bull, and we would just drink all of it.
No concerns, no nothing, just murdering our hearts with red bull and staying up all night.
So red bull has a very special place in my heart, but it also is...
I medicate my ADHD with a lot of coffee and then energy drinks as needed.
Is everyone saying...
It's people saying that I'm getting some, like, laggy.
You seeing me okay?
Oh, you're laggy.
I was wondering if I was.
Oh, okay.
I'm just...
Let me just check something.
Should be fine.
I've just stopped one of the updates going on.
Is it better now?
Still a little bit.
Audio's been fine.
Your video's been lagging.
Oh, no, that's not good.
Okay.
Well, hopefully that fixes itself.
Let me just have a quick little squeeze.
But yeah, I've got a million of these back for his updates.
Okay.
I'm killing this.
I'm killing this.
Sorry, guys.
So I do remember...
I haven't been diagnosed with ADD, but I did one of those online tests because people
have been telling me my whole life that I've got ADD.
And I did it, and it came back like 100, like, you've got to go get tested.
And then I got my wife to do the test for me, and it came back, and she got even higher
score than I did.
So I think I should go get tested, but...
I was going to say, as a mental health professional, I don't recommend going off of the free online
tests.
I do think you should talk to an actual professional.
Oh, yeah, of course.
Of course.
Of course.
It's wild, though.
I think I work with a lot of adults who got diagnosed later in life.
I was in my post-grad when I got diagnosed, and it's wild looking back to me how nobody
did anything because I did well in school, but all the telltale signs of being out of
my desk all the time, being easily distracted, kind of spacey, not paying attention to stuff.
Everything was there.
I just got good grades, so nobody ever did anything about it.
And it was in my post-grad.
I had already had my master's degree.
I was like, I should go get tested.
So I had been saying I had ADHD for years, but I was like, I need the formal diagnosis,
otherwise I just sound like a poser.
So I went and got tested and was like, yep, you have ADHD.
I had someone in school to say to me, well, you know, you've got ADD.
And I said, no, I don't.
And they said, well, what the hell is wrong with you?
Anyway, so you've actually reached out to me when I went on Derek's channel and you
were like, hey, I'm doing this, you're doing something interesting to do with purity culture.
And you heard that I was doing the panel and you're like, you know, do you need another
panelist?
And I was like, yeah, we had a conversation and we spoke about it.
And but can you tell us a little bit about, so something you mentioned there, and I kind
of, we will like circle back into your story, but I wanted to kind of like set the stage
a little bit in that something you told me really struck home for me.
And am I, if I stop freezing now?
Am I?
Yeah, it's a lot better.
Oh, cool.
So something you said really struck home with me is you said that you were, you grew up
a fundamentalist Christian and then you were a therapist and you had parents coming to
you and asking you to do certain things that was indiscriminate with the literature.
Is that right?
Yes.
And that's, there was a bit of a conflict there for you because you're like, you know,
the church and these parents and, you know, and these people want help in these certain
ways, but it's actually against what the literature says we can do.
And I was just wondering if you could kind of talk a little bit about that.
Yeah, this is going to wander a little bit into my background.
But I grew up fundamentalist, I grew up fundamentalist Christian, I went to parochial school.
So private religious school all throughout K through 12.
And then college I went to a big research institution.
I went to the University of Minnesota, which is a premier research institution.
It's one of the top three psych schools in the nation.
And it was, it was eyeopening to me on the culture side of things, but it was, it was
so research oriented in the school of psychology.
So the Minnesota twin study, which is a longitudinal study that studies twins who are separated
at birth and how later in life, what connections they have.
And it's, it's crazy stuff.
Most people are vaguely familiar with the study.
So I worked on that when I was in my undergrad, which doesn't, isn't actually exciting.
I just did data entry.
But like, I was around this culture of science and like research and evidence based practices.
So everything that I knew in psychology was from that framework from, from before I was
even in doing therapy, just in my undergrad was like, that research is important.
This is why research exists.
There's a lot of bad research that's out there.
You need to do good research.
This is why the research matters.
So I had this heavy, heavy background in science and psychology as a science and that was really
my introduction to the world of psychology.
So when I was doing therapy, even early on in my career, when I was still identified
as a, I was still a Christian, I was working at a Christian counseling place.
And for me, like what the literature said is what I did.
So there were no tools or techniques I was using that weren't evidence based practices.
So when I had like somebody who was a fundamentalist or let's say like a Catholic family, they
have a kid who's gay and they're like, can you, can you fix it?
I was like, no, like that's not what I'm doing.
Like that's not what I'm here for.
Like I'm going to do what's best for my client.
This is what the literature says.
This is how I'm going to handle it.
And I was pretty, I think going to a big public university, I definitely shifted heavily liberal.
So I was a progressive Christian, right?
Like I was pro LGBTQ, I was pro sex and a lot of those things, but still identifying
with that Christian framework and practicing from that worldview at that point.
But there was some like, I don't know, friction between my Christian upbringing and what the
literature said.
So I'm a marriage therapist.
I spent so many sessions, like hours and hours of sessions going over like Ephesians, I think
it's Ephesians, the wife submits your husband verse.
Like I spent so many hours in therapy working through clients, like how do we do this?
This is maybe what your fundamentalist pastor says, but like that's garbage advice.
And this is actually how you can have a healthy relationship.
And this is how we make that stick in like, if you still want to follow your Christian
belief.
And I think it's a bunch of mental gymnastics to make scripture fit the literature.
And I think a lot of Christians are not doing that or a lot of Christian practice counselors
who I knew who were Christian were not doing that.
They were letting their faith get in the way or doing it, you know, doing things that were
either unethical or weren't best practices and saying like, well, like God's okay with
it.
So that means it's okay.
And I never had that.
I was so heavily like research first, I'm going to practice in a way that is backed by
the science.
Yeah.
And that's wild because you still see some, you know, some, you mentioned, you know, Catholic
parents, you know, can you turn out some or straight or thought of straight?
There's still a rising movement of pray away kind of ideas.
I saw a video only a few years ago where someone came out of, I think I deleted the video
because I reached out to the pastor, it was a random Facebook Bethel person.
And I reached out and said, can you, can I get in contact with that person?
But it was this young lad and he's like, I just came out of a worship meeting.
I've been gay my whole life and, you know, God just changed me and I just saw a woman
and I saw and I saw she was beautiful and I saw she was made in the image of God.
And now I'm, you know, I've never been able to experience it before.
So it's kind of like I was delivered from being gay.
And I remember thinking like, you know, I've had experiences like not being delivered from
being gay, but thinking like I now no longer will be interested in porn and then it lasts
for a couple of weeks and then you're, you know, you're back on the whack and you're back on lust.
And so, so, you know, I wanted to reach out because I wanted to, I kind of wanted to see
where they were going to go.
And there's that, there was that also that documentary pray away and then had, I don't
want to misgender them, but it had that person in it that recently, like that,
was transgender and gay that came that I think said they dropped it all to follow the Lord.
Scarlet McColl, let me just quickly share something.
Sorry. So it's a little video.
So she recently went back to being trans and she wrote this like
this thing, but she was, she was in the documentary as this, like, I used to be trans.
I used to be gay, but now God saved me.
And this is like the trailer for it.
And, and then just recently, she just came out with a post, I've gone back to my life as Scarlet.
And then you can see all these people just like saying, like saying, this isn't the real you and
you're a good, good boy and like just all this kind of stuff like this, like you as a human being,
the image bearer of God, you are so loved, don't turn away from Jesus because of this.
Jeffrey, you are not that person.
I'll pray repentance and perseverance.
Like just all these like kind of comments like, here's this one.
Jesus protect this man.
Oh, my sweet brother.
Like they're just, you know, going out of their way to kind of misgender them and stuff.
But so he was a big advocate and I've always actually wondered like,
what does the literature actually say?
Is it possible?
Have there been any instances where someone has successfully prayed away the gay?
Like, or is it, is it just something that's just like so,
you know, it just doesn't happen.
Like, yeah, no, it doesn't happen.
I mean, it's, it's the one side is using anecdotal evidence.
Anything that's being done in a controlled environment in a controlled experiment prayer
isn't making people straight.
It's, it, there's no science behind it.
Anecdotal, so it's, it's that appeal to emotion.
It's, let us tell us the story from, you know, this was our little boy and he grew up like this
and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And then he went and got liberal or whatever.
And then we prayed and he was saved.
Like that's all appeals to emotion.
That's not anything scientific or research and it's anecdotal evidence.
And I don't, I don't want to take away from people's whose personal story it is.
Like more power to you if you're in a healthy place and you feel good about it.
But I think more of these stories when you studied, when you follow them from beginning
to end, it's people who are repressing it, who have kind of that like come to Jesus moment
that we can explain through science and other ways that doesn't have anything to do with Jesus.
And that's motivating them to stick to some sort of religion, but it doesn't tend to last.
Faith healings, a lot of stuff like that, you know, you'll see it in other areas where
there are these cults around like was like the snake training.
I don't, I can't think of the example.
The Appalachian snake handlers.
Yeah, but like those churches have people who have maimed hands and have like deformities
and stuff because like it's not working.
Like, but they're ignoring all this evidence against it.
And then the few times where something good happens, they're able to say like,
well, see, like this is a miracle.
So no, there's no empirical evidence that says something like conversion therapy
or pray away the gay would work.
Conversion therapy is outlawed because it empirically shows harm over and over and over
again in controlled settings and has no benefit.
So that's why it's something that's been outlawed.
I think in most countries, even in, even in the United States in the
conservative Bible belt, it is still illegal.
So like, because when we study it, it does harm.
It's not helping people.
It's, it's abusive.
So yeah, that, that pray away the gay movement, I think was really harmful.
I mean, I think it's definitely like the thing that's being attacked now is trans people.
And it's not because anything bad or wrong with trans people.
It's just gay people are too popular, too much, too much of the population know someone who's gay
or is familiar with it and doesn't think it's bad or wrong anymore.
And it's a much smaller percentage of the population who identifies as trans.
And so that's the new target because not for any moral reason,
just because it's a smaller percentage.
So it's easier to pick on them.
Yeah, I would, I actually 100% agree with that.
It's just, it's amazing how, you know, it used to be out, it used to be
illegal in Australia to be gay.
And, you know, like I've told the story before that, you know, I know,
you know, adults who used to go around and try and bash people who were in the 60s or 70s or
whatever that, you know, you hear of stories, like the drive around looking for people who
looked gay so they could bash them.
Like it was, it was very anti gay in Australia.
And now, for the most part, especially in a lot of like, you know, in Melbourne,
one of our probably most left leaning cities, like I was down there once and you know,
you got a park and you've got like a, you know, a bunch of Muslims sitting there with the
hijabs on and then next to them is like a gay couple holding hands and next to them is like,
you know, you know, it's just like, it's so much diversity and everyone just kind of gets on.
And it was, it was really cool to see.
But, but yeah, the trans thing, I think trans trans people have just the new target and
especially with like all the rhetoric that's coming out from like Ben Shapiro and Jordan
Peterson and stuff, it's just like, it's, it's, it's, they've got blood on the hands in my opinion,
like they've just done some serious harm.
Yeah, well, don't get me, don't get me started on Jordan Peterson because he's a, he's a psychologist,
right? So I'm, I'm the same profession as him and he just does so many things. There's ethical
complaints against him. I don't believe he's licensed to practice anymore. I think he's just
fully sold out to do whatever right wing talk show he does now. But like, you know, the things
he was doing publicly that got attention were against ethical standards. Like he was not doing
best practices. He was not following any sort of research or any sort of empirically based
practices. He was just spouting off his own bigotry. Like it wasn't, I think it's, it's unfortunate
when people like that get famous because it's, it really like hurts the profession that's been
fighting very hard to be seen as a legitimate science. Because psychology for the most part
is just more complex. Like it's, it's harder to test something versus physics. You have like
these controlled experiments that you can do. You can control all the variables with human
beings as your subject. You cannot control all the variables. So it's, it's, it's a messier
science for sure. And then you have someone who, who gets famous and has the licensure and the
degrees behind it. And they spout off all this personal hatred and bigotry. And then people
think like that's an okay stance because this expert said so. Yeah, these just said the God's
revenge thing when AIDS was rampant was so disgusting. Yeah, that's, um, yeah, it's, it's
quite, quite gross. Well, I'm like, what, I mean, after 9 11, I think Jerry Falwell Jr. or one of
those right wing bigwigs said something about like, this is God's punishment. Like, you know,
it happens any crisis that happens, like here comes God's, God's judgment, we're going to go
fire and brimstone to get people to get back in church pews. Like none of this stuff is,
I don't want to be the angry atheist, but like none of this stuff is, none of this stuff is
morality based. It's all political. It's, it's theater because they're taking advantage to,
to push an agenda. It's not about, they actually care about this stuff.
Yeah. There's a, so people, people seem to be liking what you're saying in the comments. And
I have to say that I'm glad, I'm glad you reached out because I think that you need more of an
audience. And, and before we jump into a little bit of your story, and there's a few comments
I want to address, I do want to shout out that, you know, you're coming up on the panel on deep
drinks, which is really cool. You've also got your own, my gosh, my tech today, tell you what,
I need a, I need a, I need a executive producer, but
again, did I, did I just, anyway, you've got a podcast that's, that's out.
Brand, brand new, two episodes out right now.
Brand new. Yeah. So you got two, so what's it called? Your therapist needs a therapist.
Can you tell us a little bit about that?
Yeah. So this is an idea I've had for like a long time and I don't,
let's see how to word this gently. The marketing side of running my own practice is still very
new to me. And so doing some of the self promo stuff still feels like kind of car salesman need
to me. Even though like, I know what I'm talking about is helpful to people and is interesting.
It still kind of always takes me a bunch of stuff to be like, I think other people will listen to
this. So your therapist needs therapy is just me interviewing other mental health professionals.
I will have some other people, not just therapists, but predominantly it's me interviewing a therapist
about their own mental health journey. And some of them are sharing like their personal journeys.
Some of them are sharing kind of how they manage being in a high stress field,
like therapy with their own self care and what they do to take care of their own mental wellness.
I've had a bit of a theme around religious trauma because that's my most recent thing.
That's the thing that my brain's firing on the most recently. So I have a lot of religious
trauma therapists early on, but I also do sports performance. So I'm going to have some sports
psychology people on there. I've got sex there or a sex ed coach coming on. I've got a cult
specialist coming on. We're going to have some other marriage therapists on. So I'm hoping to get,
I have some ideas for some, some guests. I have a couple of special guests lined up already.
And I hope that if it gets a little bit bigger or I have some, some time that we'll get some other
stuff. But yeah, the first episode is my therapist. I interview my therapist on there. And then the
second episode that's up is about internal family systems with forest Benedict, who is also works
with religious trauma forest. And I collaborated putting together the first thing I reached out
to you about was that support group for sexual shame for men coming out of purity culture.
So for us, then I collaborated on that, that group. So
yeah. And, and, uh, and you also have a YouTube channel, which isn't like,
you're not blowing up. Like, you're not, uh, no, thousands of views. Yes. I think I have,
I've been adding one subscriber per video. I do. So I'm breaking even right now.
No, YouTube channels weird, uh, like the things that have gotten the most likes have been like
pretty random. I think I did a review of like a Bo Burnham video. And that's the most popular
thing so far. And like, I'm not musically talented. I have zero like knowledge in that area. I'm just
talking about like the mental health topics. So the YouTube channels, me just kind of, I'm going
to say like dicking around a little bit more on mental health and talk about comic books and
superheroes and like what that, what are the themes around mental health and those things. So
it's a little bit more niche, I think. Um, I have a couple like self-help type things around
dealing with stress around the holidays and stuff like that. But it's, it's predominantly more fun
for me to just be like, Hey, here's a song I listened to. Let's talk about the psychology
behind it. Or I just finished this comic book and rereading Watchmen. So I'll probably do a
couple of videos about Watchmen because it's pretty heavy on mental health. Um, so when I was in
higher ed, I got approved to do a class on superhero psych. And then, uh, I left higher ed
before I got to teach it. So I have a bunch of prep material for superhero psychology that I
never got to use. So the YouTube channel has been a little bit of that. And I just did a review
of like a song by the national. So I like the national. It's one of my favorite bands. So
some of it's just like me being a person. And, uh, I think, I think nowadays for people who
are looking for therapists, they're looking less for like, where'd you graduate and what are your
credentials and more like, Oh, you have blog posts. Let me read those or you have a YouTube
channel. Let me see that. So it's more like, look at me. I'm a regular person and I have long hair
and a beard. I'm not scary. So it's funny. My, my, my, uh, psychologist has long hair as well.
And when he got his photo done, they like did it in such a way that it was like perfectly
like, cause before he worked for his own clinic, it was like perfectly back. So you couldn't see
it. So just like a weird bowl kind of cut, like, and I was like, but it looks awesome. He's got
like long hair like you. Um, so yeah, that's, that's amazing. Um, you know, the kind of stuff
that you're doing. I hope you get more followers and you know, go subscribe to your channel and
check out the podcast and let me know what you think of the podcast. Come back here and, you know,
podcast actually has been like, I've been getting not like a ton of views yet, but everybody who's
listened to it or the people who have been on it have been really positive about it. So
I don't know. I've done some podcasting before when I was in higher ed, um, which wasn't good.
Don't look for it. It's not good. I was interviewing, uh, division three athletes during COVID. We
didn't have anything to talk about. So, um, but yeah, this is a, this is going smoother. Me
talking to other therapists about mental health has been a lot of fun. And like people are like,
Oh, I didn't plan to share that. Or like, I didn't know we were going to go there and I do zero prep
because I have ADHD. So I like, it's just, it's been really fun so far.
So it's talking about prep. So a lot of people don't realize like how much prep I do for the show.
I think each episode are either prepped between one hour and 20 hours per episode. It goes like
sometimes I'm reading an entire book. I have to like familiar my, I have to like, what is philosophy?
And I have to like learn about what philosophy they're like. So I have enough questions to ask.
And I'm, I hope that that's shown in the, in the, in the, what people don't, I think don't
realize is like even just being in charge of like a live stream is a lot of work. So
there's all these things that are, that are, can go into it. That's why I did the podcast,
honestly, instead of doing a video, because I just didn't want to deal with the extra level of tech,
like just audio.
Well, I do have a comment that I wanted to read out from accidentally agnostic. Hello,
great topic. Looking forward to this. I'm fresh off the deconversion boat. And then you posted
further down. I've been behaving so much better now. So, so, so nitty was here. Hey, nitty,
ask, is everyone behaving? You all behaving? And they said, I've been behaving so much better
now that I'm not stressed out and distracted by an imaginary friend. And that's, you know,
thank you so much for, for coming on and, you know, sharing, sharing that you're, you've recently
deconverted or deconstructed your faith. It's really important to, to kind of get around
communities and things like that. Even if like, this isn't an atheist, this isn't an atheist,
like, evangelism show, I don't care if you remain religious or anything like that. But I just hope
that wherever you do end up, that you're happy and healthy and, and, and feel like it's you've,
you've, you came to your decision for the best reasons. But, but Jeremy, I was hoping you could
kind of touch on like, what is the first thing like you do with someone who is in a process of
deconstructing their faith? Like they come to you and they're like, you know, I don't know if
I believe in God anymore. What do you, what do you do? Yeah, for me, I mean, the way that I work,
I'm just trying to join them where they're at. So I'm not pushing against religion. I'm not
pushing for religion. I'm trying to figure out where they're coming in. So people are questioning
generally for a couple of reasons. Sometimes it's, it's a personal thing where they've seen the
hypocrisy, or they've, they've been aware of hypocrisy, but it's never affected them before.
And now, like for some reason it is, I think for some people, it's they learn something new,
or they read a book, or they hear a podcast, or whatever they get new information that they
didn't have before, and that's making them question. And then some people, it's a value-based thing.
So maybe the way that the church is responding to something like COVID or the way that the church
is responding to LGBTQ people, they're, they're realizing they're like, Hey, this doesn't match
up. Like, I thought the good Samaritan meant we took care of immigrants. And now everybody's
shipping them off for political stunts. Maybe we shouldn't do that. So, so I think it's, I think
it's trying to figure out like why they're questioning, and just really support them on
that journey. I know when I was deconverting, I grew up very fundamentalist. And so, like,
just grew up in this bubble. The only people I ever interacted with were other evangelicals,
like I went to school with other evangelicals, I played sports against other evangelicals,
like I didn't, I didn't interact. So even though I had the the knowledge base, I went out and knew
how to find peer reviewed literature, and I knew how to do some of that stuff on my own,
based on my background, I didn't have the community around atheism, or secular humanism,
or whatever it is. So like, that was a new world that I don't think I really found until I was
like, I'm an actual atheist, and like had already gone past that kind of threshold of, I don't
believe anymore. I'm an atheist. Here's why here's like my moral system that I'm comfortable with
now, like what's a new label for that. And we can talk about labels a little bit more. I don't
think they're terribly important. But I think figuring out like how to support people in the
journey, whatever they're at, and some of that's why are they questioning, and then depending on
whether they're going to stay in that church or not, or they're going to find a different church,
or they need to land somewhere outside of the church. Sorry, I keep bumping my cords. I don't
know if I'm making news or making noise here. So it's figuring out like, what is support going
to look like, because this is a very disorienting process, even if you're, you know, just moving
one church over on a little bit more progressive. That's like disorienting still, because you're
questioning a lot of things, and that destabilizes you in a certain way. So I think for me, the big
thing is like figuring out where they're at, and how I can support them. And then it's joining with
them. So if they're looking for resources, getting them resources, if they're looking for
information, that if they need to process trauma, that's just a lot of what I do. It's figuring
out how to do that in a safe and supportive way. Like trauma is all about safety, right? So
can I can I diatribe about trauma here? Yeah, diatribe away. Yeah. So trauma we always think
of as like a traumatic event, but trauma is actually what happens after the event. So in the jargon
that we use, we actually talk about adverse experiences. So childhood traumas, adverse
childhood experience, religious traumas, adverse religious experience, there's a negative event
and your brain processes it as a threat. So our brains are wired to be like, Oh, no,
there's a saber tooth tiger, let's run away. And our brain stays on high alert until we're safe.
So your brain has a process that goes through to say, that's a threat, I need to do something about
that threat. And it wants to get to a point of safety. So my saber tooth tiger example,
which is kind of a classic one, it's not mine, is you go back to your village, your village gets to
get hunting party together, you go kill the saber tooth tiger, you throw a feast, your brain gets
to feel safe, you've you've connected to community, you've eliminated the threat, you've had some sort
of ritual or celebration around that threat being gone. And now your brain feels safe, like that's
an ideal setup for adverse experience to completing the cycle so that your brain gets to
feel safe again. And if that happens, it's unlikely that there's going to be trauma. But
if the brain doesn't get to complete that cycle, it stays in, Oh, shit, there's a saber tooth tiger,
I'm not safe. And when the brain stays in that it's diverting resources towards your muscles,
you're in this fight flight or freeze state for a long time. And so your body's storing energy in
a different way, your brain is committing different resources to different things, it's
turning off things like critical thinking and problem solving, and much more in the kind of the
lizard brain, the near the brain stem, where it's in this kind of animalistic primal state.
And so that's exhausting, first of all, to stay in that state, which by trauma has a lot of fatigue
around it. But to like it harms your critical thinking skills, it makes it harder to navigate
your emotions. So when you're dealing with someone who has trauma, they have this unsafe
experience that they haven't been able to complete the cycle with, and I'm oversimplifying a bit,
but they're still in this heightened state of arousal, the brain's still unsafe,
then you want to work in a place you have to get to safety. So the brain can't process that
event differently until it feels safe. So if I work with trauma, like the first thing is like,
how do we feel safe? Making sure that the rapport that I have with my client is good,
they feel safe in the therapy room. And then we're working on like coping skills, working on ways to
calm that kind of primal response of fear down, so that we can understand what the trauma was,
we can process it in a different way, whether it's through body movement, whether it's through
mindfulness techniques, like there are a bunch of different ways to do it, but we have to get
safe first because without being safe, then the brain is still in that heightened state.
So we got questions. Yeah, a lot of questions. Yeah, awesome. A lot of great questions. So
so let me just try and find, I'll try and find one that is
I can jump around. I got ADHD already. Yeah, yeah, jump around, jump around.
So, yeah, so, so when I'm doing like something like religious trauma, here's another thing I
talk about a lot with trauma. I talk about big T trauma and little T trauma. A lot of times,
in the way that society uses the word trauma, we think big T trauma, which is like PTSD,
post traumatic stress disorder, going to war, just being what would say like if I if I went to
make like a coffee, and I made that coffee, and then I went to get the soy milk or the oat milk,
and there's none left, and I had to have the coffee black, what kind of trauma would that be?
That would probably that's very much trauma.
Tell you what, I feel pretty traumatized when it happens, like it's so angry.
Well, and so like, but no, this, that's why I talk about this, because I think again,
trauma is like one of those things like we talked about like, with like depression,
where people are like, Oh, I'm sad sometimes. So I still go to work. What's wrong with you?
Like, there's different levels of these things for people. It's all on a spectrum. So big T
traumas, like these, these war, a physical assault, being in a really bad car accident,
like these, these kind of like classic people make movies out of them, right? Like those are
those big T trauma things. Little T traumas are not those big dramatic splashy events. Those are
things where like, you're telling a four year old that they're going to hell, and they don't know
what that means. And like, that's scary. They're not in any actual harm. They're not in any actual
physical danger at that point, but the brain is taking it as a threat to their safety. And they're
not allowed to feel safe. So that's like a little T trauma, or, you know, somebody who had had like
a really harsh punishment system at home, or at the school they went to or whatever, those might not
be like a car accident, where your body is physically harmed. But mentally, your brain
doesn't care. Like your brain's like, I'm not safe. And so I talk about big T traumas and little T
traumas, because a lot of times when I bring up trauma, people are like, I don't have trauma,
like that's for Vietnam veterans, or that's for whatever, like they have this idea that it needs
to be bigger than what their experience was. But the brain doesn't care what society thinks is big
and splashy. The brain just assesses, am I in danger or not? And so anytime that the brain
has to do that process, the potential for a traumatic response is there. Most of us are able
to complete the stress cycle where we're not being traumatized. And like, we'll see it with
the big T traumas too, right? Not everybody who goes to war has PTSD. Now everybody who gets in a
car accident has trauma from that. Certain people, their brain doesn't process it correctly, or finish
the process, I should say. And so then they get a traumatic response. Trauma is what happens after
the event, not the event itself. Interesting. I will get to your questions, David. I just want to
stay on this subject a little more. But Carrie said, Carrie Ann Chrysler said, I have PTSD,
I can stick my hands into dishwasher, into dishwater and begin to dry heaving and begin to
dry heav. My body responds uncontrollably to the environment. Yeah. And so like, again, it's one
of those things where the brain is responding. It's not a logical process. It's happening. And
I'm pointing my brainstem back here. So like our brain is kind of stacked. It's got a couple layers
on it. And the lowest layer at the brainstem is kind of what we refer to as the lizard brain.
It's kind of that primal like instinctual responses. And so that's where the brain and
spinal cord are communicating. It's, it's not a thought out process. It's like, I'm in danger.
So I need to do something about it. Or like, I feel sick, I'm dry heaving, I'm going to vomit,
I'm going to pass out, I start sweating bullets, my heart is racing. Like those are autonomic
autonomic responses, like they happen right away, just brainstem and spinal cord communicating.
That's it. So like, there's not necessarily a logical process. We can't think our way out of
that. We have to deal with the process that's happening physically and learn how to soothe
our brain so that it can process it in a different way. But like, it's getting to safety and then
learning how to process. So like, it's a multi step process. It's, it's not just one thing. It's
not just like, Oh, learn how to meditate, you won't do that anymore. Like we actually have to
reprocess whatever that traumatic, whatever the brain is responding to that adverse experience.
Yeah, I, I was, you know, in my experience, I had really bad OCD. And, and that was part of my
deconversion experience was learning that my, like the thing that I called the voice of God
was actually an OCD tick. So like, I would, I heard God tell me, break up with Amy. And, and I was
like, whoa, and I went and spoke to therapists and pastors and preachers and everyone trying to like,
do I do it? Like, do I break up with Amy? And they're like, like, doesn't sound like God was
saying, like the way just like, you know, and, but I would vomit all the time from these panic
attacks. And it's just, it's just amazing how your body can kind of go into these, go into these
kind of states. And it wasn't until I went to therapy that are just all honestly, with, you
know, really quickly, it, it resolved it for me. And then I had to continue to go there as I was
processing these OCD things. But the, the instant relief when I did the exercises that
were not relief, it took my anxiety from like a nine to a four, like it dropped. But, but yeah,
it's just, it's crazy how, you know, that happens. And even now, and this is something that I've
actually struggled with personally is when I talk to a Christian who uses very similar
philosophies and ideas and language that I would have used to use. So the idea that
there's a spirit realm and you can be deceived and, you know, and, and all that kind of stuff,
I actually, I can rationally talk to them with that, but it's like my brain goes back into that
old mindset. And I actually feel traumatized, like, like not traumatized, but I feel very anxious.
Like I had a conversation at a work party once. It was my wife's work party. And this lady comes
to me and goes, why don't you come to Hillsong? Oh, we know you go to church, come to Hillsong.
And I was like, I don't really go to church anymore. Why not? And then we started the
God conversation. And by the end of that conversation, although I was being respectful
and stuff, and they were being respectful, I was shaken up like two weeks. I was just like,
because it's just like getting into that old way of thinking. But the problem is, is that,
that internal feelings of feeling anxious when I'm talking to someone that I can read into that,
like, well, that's the Holy Spirit calling you back. That's them. That's God calling you back
and you're just fighting it. And so you can read into this and it comes like this psychotic
thing, you know? Yeah, well, it's wild because I think, I think there's, I don't know that I'm
trying to think of how to word this. So I don't say something that's inaccurate.
Mental illness affects everybody. So, so there's a certain percentage of people who are going to
have it within a church without a church. But I also think that the church attracts a certain
level of it because the amount of rigidity in a church setting for some level of mental illness
helps provide security. So when I started out, I was working in a low fee clinic. This was before
like the Affordable Care Act or anything like that, right? America, we don't have health insurance
for everyone. So I was working at a low fee clinic. So you get like kind of a high level of mental
illness. These are people who can't afford regular treatment or are, you know, in transitional
housing or homeless or whatever. So we had a huge number of people who are a Jehovah's Witness
because Jehovah's Witness is highly rigid. It's very structured. There are a ton of rules. And if
you're having a high level of mental illness with no treatment, with no medication, with no nothing,
a lot of rules help keep you functional. And so these people would be drawn to kind of Jehovah's
Witness because it would keep them functional. They could maintain a job and probably not a
relationship that's too complex, but like they could be a functional member of society because
they're following all these rules. They could ignore what was ever going on in their head or what
they're feeling in their body. They just follow the rules and like they stayed functional. What
happens unfortunately then is that rigidity at some point hinders them because they're growing and
maybe they get better or they're able to seek treatment and then the rules become too rigid
and they're not able to grow and kind of nurture out of it. But like OCD is a good example of
like how many people probably have something like intrusive thoughts and they think they're
prophetic or they think they're hearing the word of God or something like that. Like I had ADHD
that was undiagnosed. And so like being fundamentalist, the black and white thinking
that's promoted within fundamentalism is how my brain likes to think. Like naturally that is a
common symptom of ADHD is black and white thinking. And so like I was there for it, right? Like I
loved the right and wrong of it. My brain was so happy to be like these people are sinners
and like this is the right thing. Like this scripture needs to be interpreted this way.
And like people who are doing it not this way are wrong. Like that's what my brain likes to do.
It wants that black and white. And like it's an actual process for me to get into like gray and
like I'm a very postmodern therapist. So like there is no capital T truth and stuff like that.
But it's one of those things where like my early growing up years without any knowledge
around mental health, without any outside experience, like some of that rigidity probably
worked well for my undiagnosed brain because it kept me functional.
Oh, we've got a lot of comments. I want to read them out. But I first want to
jump into a random aside. But this is kind of what you're talking about with your brain working a
certain way. I used to be a game developer. I have a YouTube channel way more popular.
Actually than any of my deep drinks or anything. But I used to teach people how to make video games.
And when I first started making video games, I had this video game called Burger Run that I was
going to make, which is like it will Mackers Run. It was like about going to Maccas and getting burgers
or whatever. And it was just like a 2D platform like Mario. And you just, you know, but we used
funny sound effects and it was funny. And the health bar was a bacon strip and all this stuff.
And I was like, man, this is really fun. But I don't know how to program. And so I was like
following tutorials. And I was like, you know, but I had all these creative ideas I wanted to
execute. So I realized, you know what, I need to take a step back and just learn how to program.
And I need to learn it. And I would sit there and I would struggle with it so hard. I'd go to sleep
coding tutorials. I would print off documents. I would research books. I would get a highlight.
I like I really went hard and did nothing create creative. I just focused like to even my decisions
became bullion, you know, true or false. Or, you know, I would think I would have to, I would
practice thinking programmatically in my everyday life. So about a year later, I'm like, okay,
time to actually make a game. Let's get back into it. And I had no creativity. I just couldn't
like I was thinking so analytically that I could no longer think with the broad strokes
and the paints and the colors and the, and I was like, damn, and then it became a balancing act of
like, like switching. I have to like, I call, I call it like switching modes. I have to like
switch into like a creative expression. And I have to like, you know, there's a certain vibe
that you can have got going. And then there's, then you get back into the analytic and you
like solve problems than you. And it's, it became this really weird, like dichotomy in my head of
like, I had to train myself to think a different way. And, and I think actually, if I didn't learn
that, that programmatic programming thought process, I would have a, I don't know if I would be,
I don't even know if I might even still be a Christian or something. But I learned very
quickly that it's like, something's not the true or false, like it's a, like things in life are
bullions, you know, like the true or false. So it's just really interesting. We have some amazing
comments. I want to read out a few. Thank you critical faculty for the $5 super chat. Cheers,
David and Jeremy for spreading knowledge and proper science. Critical faculty
could come down to Melbourne soon, and I'll be catching up meeting him for the first time.
Hopefully we've got a baby, so we'll see how that works out. But be good to, and we, you might hear
some interesting collaboration ideas coming very shortly with my good friend, honey over there.
So D accidentally agnostic, oh my God, I was four when my grandma sat me down and got me saved
from hell. I love this brain talk. Makes sense. Thank you. D, amazing question. What is the
guest thoughts on using mental health for political reasons? As, as in guns aren't the problem, it's
mental health. Can we respond to that one? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, I want to go back and talk
about like some of the hell trauma too, and, and why teaching kids about something like that is
developmentally inappropriate. I don't think I'm alone in this. I think any mental health professional
who hears after a shooting that there's a mental health problem like just wants to scream, because
we do have a mental health problem, but it, it isn't about, that's not what the issue is about.
It's about gun control, obviously. There's so much good research that says if we had less guns,
we would have less shooting. So like that's just a distraction. Mental health is kind of a catchall
for politicians. And I'm speaking specifically about in America. I imagine it's true other places,
but in the United States, we have a massive problem with mental health. We have a massive
problem with guns. And so rather than talk about guns, like, let's just talk about something else.
And people for whatever reason keep falling for it, because like, yeah, we do have a mental health
problem. It's a total distraction. Nobody is passing legislature to fund mental health. Nobody
is passing legislator legislature to help people with mental health. We're not getting more school
counselors in school who are not doing emotional tolerance or skills training in schools, like
they're cutting that stuff. They're limiting it. So these people who want to say it's mental health
are also limiting access to mental health. Texas, I think just passed some law saying
they can start replacing all school counselors with chaplains. And like, no, you can't like that
won't work because chaplains aren't trained in mental health and kids actually do need mental
health resources. So that's going to go horribly wrong. And you know, so then Texas had like four
shootings in one week. So like, it's really frustrating for us as mental health professionals
to hear that because it's such a cop out. And yet like we want to talk about the mental health
problem, we want to talk about the things that are leading to these things. These are
some systemic and institutional things that are leading to things like shootings, like we have,
there's no upward trajectory in our society, the amount of what we refer to as like,
deaths of despair are rising, like suicide is up across all demographics, like these,
there are people who feel stuck, there are people who feel like they're not going anywhere and can't
because we keep cutting the societal nets for people, like the game is rigged, and we all know
it and we're stuck in it. And like that causes despair for people because it's kind of legitimate.
So I think, I think it's really frustrating when something like a shooting happens because
there is probably a mental health issue at play, it's not normal behavior, it's not typical
for someone to get mad and go get a gun and go shoot up a school, like those things don't make
sense. So there's probably something going on, but to suggest that like we can just say it's
mental health and then do nothing about either guns or mental health isn't going to do anything,
even if we funded mental health better, I still think there'd be school shootings because it's
a gun problem, not a mental health problem. So it's like, I don't know, I don't want to,
I don't want to call it a bugaboo, but like it's, it's definitely a thing where they just like,
it's like a distraction, like let's throw mental health out there because everyone cares about
mental health, but nobody knows what to do with it because it's so complex. And because of that,
it just kind of goes away. It's, as an Australian, like, you know, it's,
it's unfathomable to me the, the laws of guns and we're not going to, we won't get too political,
but like the laws of guns and stuff in America, like it's unfathomable to me, like I, I, I, I don't,
like the thing that really drove the point home for me was, you know, the same day Sandy Hook
happened, which, you know, how many little kids were murdered that day? Was it 19 or 21?
Yeah, there was a school stabbing in China the same day. And 20 students were stabbed,
zero deaths, 20 students, like 20 families didn't have to have a funeral. 20 families had that
person home in a few days, 20 families, like the, the argument that like people, you know, guns,
you know, guns don't kill people. They'll, they'll use, they'll use knives. It's like, well, yeah,
let them use knives, like let them use knives, let them use their fists, let them use bricks.
They're much less dangerous than an AR-15 or, you know, something. It's just, it's just, I can't,
I can't fathom it, fathom it. Yeah. Well, and it's, it's, it's fascinating in a like depressing
sort of way, I guess, like watching a car crash. Like the bad faith actors are also like taking
advantage of evangelicals and taking care of, taking advantage of like that side of spectrum,
because it's, it's not science-based. It's not using evidence. It's like arguing from feelings
or using anecdotal evidence. So it's, it's the same kind of like advantage taking that's happening
around things like, Oh, well, the founding fathers meant this, like the founding fathers had single
load muskets and they had rules and regulations around how much ammunition you could keep because
they were all terrified about some idiot blowing up half the village. Like there were rules. There
have always been regulations around guns and pretending that like it's some like right that's
inalienable and can't be encroached in any form or fashion is just like historically inaccurate.
And like the people who are eating it up hook, line and sinker, the people who have been trained
to not use critical thinking and to not know how to do research or find peer reviewed sources or
I was at a conference where somebody did a really awesome presentation on like the overlap
between evangelicals and conspiracy theories. And it's like, right, because evangelicals have been
trained to think with their feelings and not use critical thinking, like they've been prepped for
believing conspiracy theories. Well, that's actually, we're going to get back to the hell
comments and river cities comments and a few other comments. But do you have another question?
Sorry, another question. Why are people so obsessed? Why can't I talk? So it's acceptable of
gosh, to conspiracy theories. And how do we help them? I think Fox News has traumatized people.
At what stage do you call like Fox News a sarcastic terrorism? Or maybe not sarcastic
terrorism, but like, what stage do you start calling these like, these organizations, the NRA,
Fox News and stuff just like literally propaganda machines that aren't news, they're just they're
they're brain they're just brain rot really. Yeah, well, I mean, I think Fox News has always
been propaganda. I think that was the whole point. And a lot of media is propaganda in one
form or fashion. But again, like there's a difference between going and saying like,
media can't be trusted and then going and like getting your sources from Facebook,
like you're not addressing the issue in any way that makes it better, you're making it worse.
Um, so yeah, I mean, conspiracy theories. We all have like cognitive biases. Everyone does.
It's just a thing. Our brains are like these incredibly powerful, wildly complex supercomputers
that are also incredibly lazy. So our brain wants to have like a simple category to put things in.
And because our brain takes shortcuts, which is all a bias is, it's a cognitive shortcut,
you're not doing the critical thinking and the logic work to test your theory, your brain's just
taking a shortcut. Because biases exist, like we're going to have things like conspiracy theories.
The reason some people are susceptible to them more than others, I think is is not so much a
biological thing as probably a life experience thing. I think the less diversity you have in
your life, the less world experience you you have, your worldview is smaller. You just have a smaller
base of knowledge. So if you're watching Fox News and they're keeping you in a state of fear,
and you've never been out of your hometown more than 15 miles, like a caravan from Mexico sounds
scary, but like it's not something like it's easy to test, like to check and see if that's a thing
and what's happening and what like might happen and be like, Oh, that's a made up thing. So,
you know, the reason some of these things go hand in hand, at least in America, again,
the United States, like the Republican Party keeps cutting funding to education because they
don't want people who are well educated. Like they don't want people who are healthy. They want
people to be poor and uneducated because they can manipulate them through easier means. Like
it's not necessarily that everybody who's Republican is dumb. It's just that in mass,
if there's an easy way to have somebody hear a wild outlander story and not think twice about it,
that's less work. It's less work to tell a lie than it is to tell the truth,
or to show something like evidence. So if you believe that there's a, you know,
evil cabal of people, lizard people who are using a pizza shop in New York as a front for a
pedophile ring, like, I don't know what to tell you other than that doesn't make any sense. Like,
have you heard of the Catholic Church? They're a well established pedophile ring that everyone
knows about and isn't doing anything. So like, again, the idea that it is easier to take advantage
of people in mass. And again, like I'm not using this to say stereotyping things like that's a
cognitive bias too, we can test people by the thousands and suggest with high degrees of accuracy
what they're going to do. That doesn't mean you can pick out one person in that group and say for
sure what they're going to do. So that's not to say every Republican is a conspiracy theorist,
but like, this idea of like, if we have people who have low critical thinking skills who aren't
being trained in logic or philosophy, who have very little real life experience, and have a lot
of fear to get more life experience, they're easier to manipulate. Like, that's not, that's not a new
concept that's been throughout history. Freud's nephew. This is a fun psychology fact. Edward
Bernays is his name. He wrote a book in 1927, I want to say called, called propaganda, and it
just lays out like, this is how we can start using things like radio and media and newspapers to
manipulate people. And like, of course, people read that and used it for evil means. Like,
so yeah, Freud's nephew put it put the textbook out on how to manipulate people in mass.
I read that when I wanted to start a beverage company, and I was like, you start with a podcast
about drinking, then you know, if he is not, imagine if I do that now, that's going to be
clipped. But anyway, there's actually, this is, this is what we call the Joe Rogan moment,
where I talk about something I know only half a little bit about, and it's probably misinformation,
so make sure you Google. But actually, parts of it are misinformation. So I have a friend who
actually manufactures vaccines. They're a researcher building vaccines, and they're working on the
COVID vaccine and doing some stuff with that. And they, they told me two things. One, that they've
done research on conspiracy theories, and there are people with certain brains, like the way
their brains are wired that they literally will, they won't believe the, they won't, they'll, they'll,
they'll err on the side of whatever isn't mainstream, whatever, whatever someone's telling
them, it's like an anti authoritarian like idea, they'll go, whatever the group that's
protesting that group, I'm part of that group. But then they also said this is a really funny
story. So that's the part that I don't know, you know, go fact check on that. But they said that
they, they, there was a, there was a group in Brisbane, I think it was Brisbane,
and they had developed, they were developing technology to see if they could administer vaccines
via patches, not via needles. And you know, how effective they were and stuff. And they were
actually funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. And they created this patch, and it
was square. And it had like, I think electronics or something in it, like some stuff that would,
and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation came back to them said, guys, like,
our marketing team has come back and they said, you can't make it square, because it looks too
much like a microchip, you're gonna have to make it round or another shape. And they had to spend
like 20 grand redeveloping this thing to be circle, not square, because people would associate it
with a microchip. And it was literally just like, just stopping the conspiracy theories before
these products, like, and it was still in the testing phase, but the marketing got to it and said,
no, you can't have it as a, as a square, it'll be associated with microchips. And especially with
the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, it just looks. Yeah. Well, and I mean, some conspiracy
theories have like a kernel, a tiny, tiny sliver of truth somewhere in them to give it like an ounce
of credibility. And then it grows from there. I think, you know, act throughout the Catholic
Church is like a well established pedophile ring, like, sure, like, evil cabal of people who are
molesting children, like, yeah, we have a real world example. So I guess that's not so far fetched,
but also like, this is where the brain's super lazy. And it like, that's a nonsensical thing.
And yet, if it's like an easy thing for your brain to wrap the Ted around, and if you have limited
life experience, if your life experience is reading, you know, trashy novels or watching Fox
News and watching, you know, action movies, and that's all you know, like, sure, that sounds
totally plausible. You just watched the Transformers movie where they went to the moon and whatever
else, like, you don't have any knowledge to question any of it, you're not in the habit of
questioning it, like, oh, sure, lizard people, I guess. So I think, I think it's something that's
wild. And when you would get someone who's an expert, I'll put expert in quotes, but like,
I do this a lot where like, I heavily question research, because I went to a research institution,
I know a lot of research that gets put out isn't done well. And so like, you have to be critical
of research, because you have to filter through the stuff that's not going to hold up and the stuff
that when it gets put up against peer review, or somebody else does that study, it's going to fall
apart. So that's why we have the peer review process. Yeah, right. But like, but that doesn't
mean like a wholesale rejection. And so like, I talk often about the medical field not being an
exact science. And so when someone's going on meds for the first time around mental health,
and like, it's a process, it's a lot of trial and error, it's not exact, be like, ready for it to be
a bit of a like, long haul, it's not something that usually like, changes your life overnight.
And so but like, doctors don't talk about it that way, like, they're going to just be like,
hey, you're going to go on this, it works really well for a lot of my clients, and I'll see you
in six weeks. And like, if it doesn't go well for you, you feel like it's something wrong with you,
but like, that's actually the typical experience. And so a lot of it is just like, it's not that
the medications are bad or wrong, it's just that that's kind of the process. It's not exact. And
I think people have that way. I will say like, I've been skeptical for a lot of my life around
things like antidepressants, the research has never been that strong. And so we're like starting
to call some of those things more into more into account. But like, again, that's being able to
say like, I have the expertise to read a bunch of peer reviewed stuff and sift through it. And I'm
subscribed to all these journals, and I have access to a high level library system, because I went
to grad school and can go to a nice university's library, like, that's not what the average person
has. So it's not the same thing as, you know, your aunt Karen on Facebook talking about COVID vaccines.
I, I have a story and anecdote of antidepressants actually. And, and so when I was prescribed
the same antidepressant three times by three separate doctors, and same dose and everything.
And I remember not wanting to take it, I was scared that I would lose the ability to get
erections or scared that I was going to gain like more weight than I already do have on me and,
you know, and, and all that. And I remember doing, I came to my therapist with a document, and I'm
like, this is what I've tried. And it was like, I went through the literature and I was like,
okay, this is when antidepressants were put up against exercising in groups for 30 minutes a
day, three times a week, exercising by yourself, three times a week and next and placebo. And,
and it was like, you know, I think, I think like antidepressants one, I know antidepressants were
like a few percent higher than the exercise group and the exercise group in communities was better
than the exercise alone. And it was like, but it was only a small percentage, but it was 20%
better than placebo. So it showed that it had some effect, but it's like exercise does just as well.
And then there was like studies on saffron, eating like saffron and turmeric. And then there was
like meditation and then there was added all this stuff. So I was meditating, I was doing exercise
three times a day, three times a week, 30 minutes exactly as they did, like 30 minutes of 80%
cardio, like I went like really, really particularly with it. My depression cleared up pretty quickly.
However, my OCD got incredibly worse and it got just just continued to build. And what was worse is
that's what the antidepressants were prescribed for. So eventually I caved, I took the antidepressants
and I had a dry mouth for about two weeks and I felt a bit disorientated and I've had
no symptoms after that. In fact, you know, TMI, but like, well, I'm not even gonna say that,
but things got better for me. Like I just felt a lot better. I've been on them for years now and
I've had no side effects after those two weeks. And it's just made the peaks and valleys just like
level out. And I know on an exception, I know most people get side effects, but they just did
wonders for me. And I know this is also anecdotal. So look at the data. But when it comes to depression,
exercise and things like that can do as good if even better in some cases then.
Well, and I think like your experience of doing some things different and then doing medication
again on top of it and then having a different result. Like again, that's why it's so hard to
have solid science on human beings because there are so many variables at play. And so
something like losing a little bit of weight or like changing your diet and your metabolism speeds
up or slows down. Like those have massive differences in how your body is going to process
that medicine. Sometimes having five more milligrams of a medicine in your system is
enough to pass some threshold that gives you the result you want. So like it's we're talking about
like minuscule changes in your body that might have huge effects. I tend to not. I tend to be
like medicine as a later approach as opposed to like go to the pills right away, like try and
change your diet, learn some skills around meditation and yoga and do some other healthy
coping skills. Like there are people who need medication. There are people who once they find
the right dosage and the right type of medication, it is life changing for them. And so like that's
not to like this merch or say medication is bad or wrong. I just talk about it very freely and like
it's not an exact science and there's a process to it like finding the right dosage and getting
some people need them a generic. Some people need name brand because those are the organic compounds
in them are facing different directions. And so some people's bodies just process it better
if it faces one direction or the other. Like it's organic chemistry at like a base level and
it can have a big difference in whether or something works for you or not or how big of a
side effect you get or not. So like there are all these these minutiae that go into it and
everybody is just a touch different. So it's going to affect different people differently.
Yeah. There's so many amazing comments. I think we're gonna have to do another episode or something
because this is just we're all over the place. D said, I think people are liking it. D said,
the Gates Foundation does so much good for people and they just trash them. And what's
worse is they trash them on the very devices that they invented. Like it's just like it's so
frustrating. All right. So like COVID conspiracy theories are great. I think like test subjects
of like the weirdness of conspiracy theories like 5G is the thing but like 4G, 3G weren't causing
any problems. Like there's so many like easy ways to start poking holes in these things. But
I think at this point or at this point in our history, like so many people were comfortable
just with taking propaganda that it was it was like a breeding ground for conspiracy theories to
spread. The research around the conspiracy theories around the COVID vaccine specifically
tracked most of that misinformation to like two different accounts. And like all of that was being
spread so far and wide across the world to cause all these other problems. Like these were not
well researched people. It's just like two random people. So you know, but like then you get someone
like Aaron Rodgers who's a famous quarterback and he says he did his research and like I'm from
Wisconsin. That's where he played co-packers. But like dude, you didn't even graduate from college.
So like maybe this is not the thing that you should be weighing in on.
Was it that meat? Didn't meatloaf die of COVID and there was that meme going around like
I'll do anything for love but I won't do that. And everyone was like post together. It's like
that's so brutal. Can I jump can I jump to a different not a different topic? It's in the
comments. So people are talking people are talking about Freud and go jets get out of here.
Freud Freud's a fascinating topic. Freud was a garbage therapist. He was a misogynist. He was
racist. He was kind of an awful human being. He was a drug addict. He did cocaine for most of his
career very heavily. Most people racist scumbags like I don't know. I hold I hold therapists to
a standard of like trying to help people. Hang on before we before we jump into this, I got given
a a three or three or three hundred killer version of the full like life-size version of the
Red Book by Jung. I don't even know what's in it. Like I look into it. I have no idea. This is
I'm going to rant for a while. Yeah, because somebody was like, I'll forget Freud and get
me young and I'm going to trash Carl Jung too. So so most very little what Freud did was scientific
at all. He was just a straight white dude at a time where straight white dudes have been more
power than they do now. So he basically was like lying on my couch talk to me and I'll tell you
what you should think was his style of therapy which somehow still exists today. Very few people
do it but some people still do. So he was he was terrible and at the end of his life he started
to like question everything he had ever done because it wasn't based on anything pretty much
the only thing he did that held up was the defense mechanisms that he stumbled into still seem to have
a little bit of interest and some scientific backing. Not that he got it right per se but
he was onto something with it. So but what he did was he founded basically modern psychotherapy.
So like he got nearly everything wrong but the profession survived all his missteps.
So Carl Jung was one of his followers and Jung is having a heyday right now. Carl Jung is very
popular. Everybody's out here doing like shadow work and Carl Jung was just as much of an idiot
as Freud didn't do any science was basically taking like literary criticism and applying it to
psychology and pretending that that was a new science that he created and like all of his stuff
is made up like this shadow work stuff that people are talking about and I see a lot of stuff about
around like in the wellness sent like in wellness I don't know spheres like shadow works really
popular like we all have a dark side let's work on that and like it's such garbage that's all
pseudoscience none of that is based on any research none of that was scientifically put
together Carl Jung didn't know what he was talking about he was just one of Freud's favorite students
so like none of this stuff is based on anything it drives me nuts when people are like they know
that Freud's bad but then they're like hook line and sinker for Carl Jung's like no he was just as
bad like nobody started doing like science until like 75 80 years later so well yeah you pistol
life camps um no uh well and like seriously though when I talk about psychology when I talk
about like finding good research like if you're citing something before 2010 in the psychology
world like it's out of date like we shouldn't be talking about it anymore because that's how much
research keeps moving quickly and with like the advances in technology to do brain scans and
are aware of our awareness of neuroscience and stuff like that like it used to I used to be like
not that long ago I used to say anything before 2000 is out of date but I honestly at this point
I'd say anything like after 2010 is woefully out of date and if it's not in the last few years like
it's probably missing information that's out there now from better research so to go back
and say like the guy who started it all probably knew who he was talking about was like no he knew
nothing he was snorting cocaine and thinking because he was smarter than everyone else nobody
was noticing what do you think about Neil deGrasse Tyson's prediction that by 20 he's
making his predictions for 2050 and he says by 2050 he thinks that we will have solved mental
health like in that we would have such a complex understanding of the brain that we will be able
to essentially put psychologists out of work I mean by 2050 seems really optimistic uh I don't
think it's outside of the realm of possibility that we get to a an understanding of how our body
works where we can do the the chemistry for our brain and our gut health and everything else and be
a lot better about it um I think it's so hard and a couple people have talked about this in the
comments like you can be an expert in one area and still be an idiot in another area like that's
true so to take somebody who knows a lot about like exercise physiology or I work a lot I spent
part of my career working in higher ed with student athletes around their mental health and so
like I do a lot about nutrition and like how you're fueling your body and the difference that makes
for you most psychologists don't study that at all like it's not a huge part of our curriculums
coming up like it's not a thing that we need to study it's not a thing that we need to be aware of
and so like a lot of people aren't paying attention to the the brain gut connection and how you're
how you're feeling you're fueling your body affecting your brain like even the idea of mental
health like we take the brain out of the body for some reason as if it's not also a part of the body
and like what's going on in your body is affecting your brain and what's affecting your brain is
affecting your body like these are feedback loops they're not separate entities they're not different
systems so I I don't disagree with that prediction that at some point we'll get there I would say
probably not by 2050 I don't think we'll get there interesting we've got a few a few quick
comments then I want to circle back to the health subject as we wrap up I wish I could continue
going but I'm taking an extended lunch break at the moment and then I'll be back to back to work
so a few just quick comments I'm just gonna read out and then we'll go back to the the health subject
but River City film I've had the experience of people telling me they had the word from God
about something and it was just their opinion very dangerous I would agree Hillsong run run fast
and going back to the health question today surely living with a constant fear of health
torture from a God would create extreme trauma and accidental agnostic we read this before
when I was four my grandma sat me down and got me saved from hell so I was wondering if we could
talk a little bit about about hell what are your thoughts on on teaching kids about hell
is it child abuse like Richard Dawkins would say you know what does it do to someone's psyche
how do you deconstruct someone's fear of hell yeah well I mean is it abuse or not it's abusive
is it something that that child protective services is going to come and take their kids away
obviously not I don't know about it Australia but the United States CPS doesn't show up unless
there are bruises so you know the parenting used to be you know James Dobson in the 80s recommended
beating your children like we know now with research that that is trauma that causes harm to
a child's brain that changes the way that their brain processes new information like spanking
your kids is traumatic so I would say hell is is similar there's no way for a young child
to process something like that their brain is starting to make sense of the world through
things like fairy tales and stories and narratives because that helps them connect dots not because
it provides meaning or like morality for them so so pretending that like something like eternal
hellfire that you are destined for because you're an awful person or spoiler like I was
fundamentalist because someone did something else four generations ago you're still going to
hell for that like there's no way for a kid to process that they don't have the brain power
to process that they have no life experience around that they can't process time yet let alone eternity
so like everything about it is inappropriate developmentally like they just don't have the
brain capacity to do it and then it's fear-based so you're scaring them about something they cannot
understand that they can't process that they don't know how to ask questions about because they
don't know what they don't understand about it and I would say at this point in my life like
it's a bad reading of scripture because the bible doesn't say that much about hell most people's
common perceptions of hell's based more off of Dante's Inferno or Paradise Lost than it is about
what scripture actually says it's not even it's not even like in the Old Testament either like
it's it's a new test well I'm not Jewish so but as far as I know like Judaism doesn't believe
in an afterlife like there's not a hell concept so the idea that Jesus would have believed in
hell is also pretty unlikely given where Judaism was at from what I've read from people who are
much smarter about bible scholarship than I am so yeah like it's not good and it's fascinating for
me to ask people some of these questions like oh like where is that in the bible and this idea of
like the devil is a horn figure with a like forked tail and hooves like that's not he's like a snake
for a while and then he's hanging out with God in Job like their buddies and then he's a rot lion
and then he's got you know seven horns which is just like the city of Rome and this Babylon mythology
and all the stuff like he's not this horn figure who rules over hell and tortures people eternally
like that's nowhere in the bible and yet like that's still what most people think of of that so
it's pretty wild to me like the concept of hell is wildly inappropriate for children it's not a
thing we should be talking to kids about certainly not a thing we should use to threaten them
because it's inappropriate for their brain development but also like the idea of hell
is just like where did we get that from if you start digging into it like this it's not from the
bible so yeah and that part of it's pretty crazy for me I think I'm I'd love to hear just comment
comment now if you'd like to I have done a hell cast panel before on my other youtube channel
it was a long time ago but I'm thinking about one of the next panels we should do is about hell
so if you'd like to see the comments comment down below the so just just as we wrap up I want to
ask a few questions and we've got to have you on again because there's so much we didn't get a
chance to cover yeah because I've just really really enjoyed this conversation but firstly
let me just say a couple of things
so we coming up tomorrow we have we have an episode finding et the social logical impact
with Dr. Aaron Adair so we actually have a physicist coming on to talk about finding et
now that's not really in the realm of religion philosophy and human rights but we used to be
religion philosophy science and it's something I'm interested in so I hope you guys are also
interested in that but the reason is because Aaron has Dr. Aaron has written a book along with let me
just find the episode along along with Jonathan Pierce here who and he talks about the religious
like what would happen to the religions of the world so we've got two episodes and the first one's
going to be about the sociological impacts of if we found aliens and the next episode will be about
what the what the religions of the world would would be would aliens have a religion
it goes it's a pretty interesting book and we're going to go right into that tomorrow
and in the following day we have Warzone we possibly they're in Ukraine at the moment demining
so you never know and I'm just just contacting them and trying to see if we're still down for this
but if not it'll be another time but we are doing an episode on demining in Ukraine and what's
kind of happening Warzone journalism with Dylan Burns which will be really cool. Secondly I want
to point out that and I want to thank everyone thank all my patreon supporters and new members
to the channel. Papa Aaron as everyone knows is the Pope of deep drinks it's the it's the highest
here you can get and he he has the chance as the as the Pope to come up with suggestions
that'll do but this suggestion is something that I thought was a great idea anyway and that is I'm
going to have like a community patreon stream where it's just it's just for patreon and members of
the channel and it'll be you know everyone can kind of jump on or comment or just jump on with
audio and we'll just hang out and talk about religion, philosophy, human rights and anything
and it'll be kind of a longer relaxed stream so if you want to get on that join the patreon or
become a channel member and I'll make sure you can come along that'll be awesome and stay tuned
for that I'll post in the members or the patreon link and lastly guys I've pinned the comment go
check out and tell me what you think and and let Jeremy know if you go over to your therapist needs
therapy a podcast and just comment below and say you're from deep drinks I'm sure
you know I'd love to hear that some of you guys went over there and like and found his episodes
let me know what he thinks if they suck tell him no I think I'm good take your therapist in it find
me on instagram and tag your therapist I need new guests in the future so do you have um do you
have twitter I don't twitter is a cesspool yeah that's that's you got to go on there to argue
with bigots it's the best the best thing after a few I say that and I go on reddit all the time so
no I think social media in general is a cesspool no I'm mostly on instagram um I don't know I work
with millennials and younger a lot so twitter's old people social media sweet so okay but yeah
check out the check out the podcast and I'm open to feedback on it it's still it's still in its
infancy so it's moldable still awesome awesome well I'm definitely going to you're only told us
about this this morning but I'm going to definitely check it out as well so a few questions I ask
everyone at the end of each deep drinks episode and I'm not sure if you've seen this before but
it's a question I love to ask and you're you're an atheist now or do you believe in God
I am an atheist yeah I'm an atheist we can talk about that another time yeah right oh no oh no
okay I thought you on again that's how you that's how you secure another spot on deep drinks
you sure yeah yeah so um what is the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in
plausibly true religion well how are we defining a religion David because I think that's a big question
okay um no if your paganism is a is a religion because they got federally recognized as a
religion no I'm cutting I'm cutting that because people always and they always go like Buddhism
because it doesn't have a god no I'm talking theistic religions what is the most plausibly
true theistic religion so I'm talking Hinduism Jainism um Christianity Catholicism Mormonism
I mean I don't I don't think any of them are uh more plausible than the other because I don't
think religion is a I think religion is a response to regular psychological processes
our brains are wired to do certain things and religion provides an incorrect but still an answer
to a lot of those things and so I think you're gonna see a lot of the same strengths and a lot of
the same flaws in them almost most most religions will get like thumbs up for being a community
that provides meaning to people like that's a good thing but like that's a human need like
we are wired we're social creatures we're wired for community so like do I think religion does
that well absolutely not so uh I don't know what's the most plausible I'll just say like I
like Norse mythology so if none of them are more plausible than the other I'm gonna be like let's
go back to Thor and Odin I disagree I think um I think there are definitely ones that are more
plausible than the others like I have a shirt that says worship the old gods on it right so like
you've got you've got Judaism right and then Christianity builds off Judaism so Christianity
has to be more false than Judaism and then Mormonism builds off Christianity which you like
definitely has and then there are just silly religions like Jehovah's Witnesses that you're
like I got this is definitely like this is definitely not or Scientology like what is that
like do you know what I mean like I'm much more believe in Islam than I am Scientology is
just as made up as Judaism is so like why you're just saying because it's been around for longer
you've got to have faith I am being skeptical okay well here's a here's a great question then
what if anything would change your mind about the god belief something scientifically validated
something that we can test repeatedly in a controlled setting that shows okay there's
there's the god of thunder and he's making thunder and he's rolling a bowling ball up there and he's
you know that's the sound we hear like sure show it in a controlled setting you know like
I love that for me I I have not been de-converted for that long maybe I would say five years but
maybe like three years where I've been like atheist so it's been still new for me and so like the
James Webb telescope has been a near like religious experience for me to just like take
like the wonders of like the universe not as like give credit to god but just being like
holy shit like work tiny like inconsequential and like it's still beautiful even though you know
so so like and for me the science behind it is fascinating like having to update and like
deconstruct some held like beliefs around the the big bang theory and then question it and and
build new science into it and be like how does this change our understanding what does this do
like I I think it's so fascinating that whole process and how that's affecting things so you
know I'm open to changing my mind but like scientifically speaking not not for a different
reason that I love that what you said there for me when I learned about evolution that was a spiritual
kind of feeling to me I said this to Aaron Ra same with um same with the Hubble deep field and
let me just show I've got this printed in my office this is the Hubble deep field image and
for those who don't know um what this is probably everyone here does because everyone here is smart
because you're a list of subscribed to deep drinks subscribed to deep drinks but um the these images
this image here do you know what this image is um Jeremy are you asking me yeah do you know what
this is I don't this is from the Hubble not the James Webb or is this James Webb yeah so yeah so
this is Hubble so this is crazy right so just let me give you some context so this printed in my
and my wall what astronomers used to do is they used to point their instruments at like
known objects nebula and everything like this and I can't I think it was Carl Sagan it might not
have been Carl Sagan it was someone but they were like they were like they were like you know you've
got some time on these telescopes three months or whatever like you can put it anywhere and they
they chose one of the darkest spots in the sky where you couldn't see anything like it was just
it was nothing and they pointed it there and as the satellite went around earth it took and I might
be getting some of this wrong fact check me if you have issues but as it went around the um the earth
it was taking you know um long exposure photography of this this section of the sky the section of the
sky you're looking at is a pinprick at arm's length so like that's what you see in the sky
but what you see here aren't stars well some of them are this one here um is a star because you
can see the cross and this one here is a close star um down down further but the ones with the
little crosses are stars this one up here is too but every other little dot you see every other little
thing is a galaxy a galaxy with hundreds of billions of stars with hundreds of billions of
planets around those stars and that's that's that's a pinprick at arm's length like in the night sky
and what you're seeing here is some of the earliest some of these um here you can look
they go back I think it's about 13 billion years like this was one of the ways that we knew you
know there's some of the some of the the earliest um galaxies like when the big bang was first forming
in this image and that's just that's crazy and so what the James is Hubble telescope is doing
is is is looking at all this kind of stuff with deeper um uh with uh infrared not infrared but
like different like this is why we don't do science I've been out of the game but it's it's
just look at that you just go whoa like just these little this little dot here this tiny little dot
like these little tiny all these little specs they're galaxies like it's just incredible like
I think uh I I've been taking my my five-year-old to the planetarium we have a planetarium in the
city um and like he and I have gone a couple times and I think I'm like as excited about it
as he is he's five and he's just like learning about it the solar system and like I grew up
fundamental so I had fundamentalist so I have very limited science background so this is all
like fascinating stuff for me we went to one presentation on the James Webb and I was just
like mind blown by it that was yeah his head so we did a we did a basic solar system one too but
like yeah it's it's crazy stuff it's um it's it's it's very well and you just think like
and and that's what we'll be talking about tomorrow is like how do we know the person
we'll be talking have you seen the movie contact with um yeah so you know that that the organization
in their city the search for extra terrestrial intelligence that um so so my guest tomorrow
Aaron did his internship there so the actual city so we'll be talking about that tomorrow
so it's gonna it's gonna be a wild one well um two last questions uh if you um
um what is the best advice piece of advice you've ever been given
oh um
I can answer in the therapy realm for sure uh one of my supervisors uh said be curious
like if anything in therapy will ever serve you if any technique or tool or whatever it is
school of thought textbook you read be curious and like that is very much how I've built my therapy
that's why I think I can work with so many different people from so many different backgrounds
and still do effective work because I'm coming in not as an expert I'm not coming in with like
in a claim to know more about their life than they know I'm just coming in and being curious and
trying to see how I can help so be curious that's great that's that's a lot I like that I think
I'm gonna steal that as a bit of my own philosophy life philosophy but uh if you can ask a magic genie
or like a magic box or something and you could ask any question but it would only answer a question
about where you are wrong about something so like a belief you have an idea or something
that you're confident about but you want to know am I really confident what would you ask that magic
genie huh that's a good question I'm making a hard game with these questions I thought of a bunch
of like stupid things off the top of my head that I want to know about um that like wouldn't no one
else would care about but I'd be like oh like is this like a story about Led Zeppelin true or not
man that's a good question I don't know I think I have like a I'm not like I'm perfect everybody
has biases myself included uh I think I have like a healthy skepticism to my own knowledge base just
deconstructing uh but also like in the therapy realm like I hold a lot nearly everything as a
hypothesis at best um something I would like to know about couldn't yeah I don't know I can think
of as like pop culture stuff like was there really like a a munchkin that got hung on the set of
Wizard of Oz or did like Led Zeppelin really you know assaults a girl with a fish or this is a
actually a pro wrestling shirt that I have on um and there's a bunch of like drama around the pro
wrestling world right now and it's like there's some stuff that that's like popping in my head I
don't know that there's a lot I love that that's your yeah well that's that's fun you know if you
have if it's a pop culture thing like you know um yeah that's fine yeah I want to know the the truth
behind the pro wrestling drama there's a bunch of non-disclosure acts going on CM Punk got into a
big fight with Kenny Omega who's my favorite pro wrestler of all time and is the greatest pro wrestler
if you've never heard of him you should go look him up uh they're all in all elite wrestling uh my
shirt is a group of pagans uh one's like a dutch kickboxer he's awesome like doesn't that just sound
awesome a dutch kickboxing pagan like yeah he's very cool um pro wrestling is awesome when it's
done well but yeah they got in a huge fight after wrestling like WWF I don't know about oh get out of
here WWF's terrible um oh it is it is that I'm a hipster about it I watch all elite which is the
cool new kids wrestling show and like stuff from Japan or like lucha libre from Mexico is really
cool see my wrestling I got it um so yeah they got in a huge like fight after a pay-per-view
and now there's all these nda's around it and nobody can talk about it and I really want to
know what happened because like Kenny Omega's my man and I love that guy and he he got bit like
legitimately somebody bit him in the arm someone threw a chair a dog lost a tooth like it's
pro wrestling's weird both in like the storytelling and real life so I would like to know what happened
in the brawl out that that happened last year after a pay-per-view talking about um talking
about things you want to know the the one thing that I was obsessed with for the longest time was
making a murderer Steven Avery and um and that um we talked about that on the patreon thing but like
oh man I'm I I would love to argue with someone about that one day but um yeah isn't that wild
like you could get an answer to anything and we're we're hung up on pop culture all right well um
thank you so much German for coming on I'd love to have you on again and next time um I'll choose
a time when I can we can continue for a longer period with um oh you got a plan you got a plan
for my ADHD going every which way especially with the comments I was I was distracted last panel
I was on I went full screen so I couldn't see the comments and that kept me laser focused and today
I was like I had the comments up it's distracted well I think I think I gotta go get tested hey
because um I'm the same like that's what I love I love jumping around everywhere but I'm getting
better at like pinning things I will go back to that and like it's okay and I hope people
enjoy it anyway thank you everyone thank you so much for the patreon supporters and new members
and go check out your therapist needs the therapy podcast and I'll see you guys tomorrow see you guys
bye
um
