So this is a very personal story of mine, but I think it's time to share it.
Stick around until the end, because trust me, it gets wild.
So I used to be a Pentecostal youth pastor. I was employed by the church,
and I used to preach to sometimes over 100 youth on a Friday night.
We believed in speaking in tongues, we believed in laying on of hands for healing.
I believed there were prince impalities and demons and evil things in the world that we
needed to warfare against in the spirit realm. For a long time, being a youth pastor was totally
fine, but as I entered my young adult years, I started to experience some mental issues,
mainly anxiety and depression. Now I would do many things to try and help resolve these issues,
things that I was taught in church. I would go see an accredited female church counselor,
an accredited male church counselor who will talk about male things. I would spend time with
the associate pastor talking about my issues. I would have lunch with the worship pastor to
talk about my issues. I would go to the Tuesday night prayer meeting to
preach the warfare against what I knew was going on in the spirit realm.
I would attend Bible studies to try and get a theological understanding of what might be
happening to me, but nothing seemed to be working. My father and my stepmom asked me
many, many times to please go to a psychologist, to go to a secular therapist.
Someone who can give an unbiased perspective of what I'm going through. I kept turning them
down, believing that God and the church and the Bible had all the answers.
Why would I need to go to a secular therapist? God has all the answers.
God is everything that we need. This is what I was taught in church.
My anxiety eventually got so bad that I spent most days unable to get out of bed until after
midday. When nighttime would come around, for some reason my anxiety would get worse,
and I would end up pacing up and down the street vomiting in people's gardens,
because my panic attacks would get so insane that I would vomit as a reaction to the experiences
that were happening inside my mental state. I thought I was going insane. It was horrible.
So one day, I'm in my father's woodworking shop.
I'm working on a little jewelry box. I was going to give this jewelry box to my girlfriend, Amy,
who is now my beautiful wife and mother, my son, Atlas. Something about the purity of that moment
that maybe you want to reconnect with God like it hadn't in many years. So I put on some worship
music on my phone and I began to pray. Immediately as I opened up, I heard this booming voice come
from heaven as an intuition and it said, break up with Amy. I immediately pulled back. I was shocked.
I was freaking out. I immediately began to have a panic attack and I had to run out of the workshop
and vomit in the garden. I believe that I heard the voice of God tell me to break up with Amy,
but I couldn't rationalize why. So eventually I decided to take my dad's advice and I found a
great psychologist here on the Sunshine Coast. I went along and the first session, to be honest,
I didn't think much of it. However, I still went along to the second session and this is
where stuff gets really weird. So in the previous session, I had told him this thought that I was
having, what if God wants me to break up with Amy? So now it's the second session and I'm sitting
down with a psychologist and he tells me, I want you to repeat out loud what if God wants me to
break up with Amy? And I said, no, no, no, I can't say that. I can't say that. And he said,
why not? I said, because you know, I'm a Christian and I believe that there is life and death in
the power of the tongue. I believe that when you speak into existence becomes reality. You've got
to remember, I was in such a fragile state of mind that something as little as that was terrifying
for me. And I said, what if I run out? What if I push past you? I run out, I get on my phone and I
call Amy and I break up with her and he said, would I be a good psychologist if I let that happen?
And I said, I said, honestly, I'm really scared to do this. And I argue with him for a little bit
until eventually I gave in. So I said, what if God wants me to break up with Amy?
Anxiety starts to build. He says, Say it again. What if God wants me to break up with Amy? Anxiety
starts to build even more. He says, Say it again. What if God wants me to break up with Amy? The
anxiety is now getting worse and worse, say it again. What if God wants me to break up with Amy?
Say it again. What if God wants me to break up with Amy? And as this was happening, I've now
I entered in a panic and I'm looking
for an office I've been on something to vomit in
and I tell him, I'm going to vomit, say it again.
What if God wants me to break out with Amy?
Say it again.
What if God wants me to break up with Amy?
And all of a sudden.
It was like a spell was broken.
And I was saying out loud.
What if God wants to break out with Amy?
And I'm thinking, why did I think that?
He's like, say it again.
Like, what if God wants me to break up with Amy?
He's like, say it again.
I'm like, what if God wants
me to break up with Amy?
And I'm thinking, why did I ever
think that God would want me to break up with Amy. It was honestly like a spell had been broken.
It was like I left a three week case of psychosis. So just to be clear, I didn't have psychosis.
And even though those things sound very hectic, all I had was panic disorder and generalized
anxiety disorder brought on from OCD. Everyone knows the concept of OCD. Someone washes their
hands and then their brain says, you need to wash their hands again and you do it until your hands
Someone with pure OCD has repetitive thoughts that they can't get rid of
and they create mental tricks that are like a compulsion to help them deal with their obsessive
thoughts. So just like that, I went home feeling better than I had in weeks. Whenever these thoughts
would come up, I just repeat the phrase. But years later, as I came out of the fog, I started to
realize a few things. The first thing was, why could something spiritual be broken with a simple
psychological trick? These pastors, these worship leaders, these counselors, these church friends
were all telling me that I was being attacked by the enemy. Yet all of that seemed to go away
with a simple psychological trick. Why? Secondly, I was convinced that I heard this
impression from God that God wanted me to break up with the love of my life. Not only did I find
out that that disagreed with scripture, which says he who finds a wife finds a good thing,
but if the voice of God can be an OCD tick, what other impressions had I been getting from God
that weren't actually from God? It was at this time in my life that I realized
that these internal feelings or ideas or where my heart is leading me to is not a good way to
investigate what is true. So the church that I was a part of and the Bible that I was reading
were telling me to fix my eyes on Jesus. It was telling me that we do not war against flesh and
blood, but principalities and things in the spirit realm. It told me to stand firm against the enemy,
to resist temptation, to resist the evil one. But little did I know that for my mental condition
and for the mental condition of many other people, this is the exact wrong advice. These
teachings made my condition worse. Please, if you are suffering, go and see a psychologist. They are
not here to hurt you. Thank you for watching my rather personal story. If you can financially
afford to support this channel, you can become a member and have your comments highlighted
with custom badges and emojis. You can also check out the Patreon linked in the description.
Each donation helps us create better content and continue to get more amazing guests. Thank you.
