My mum had health complications from very early on in my childhood when I was like seven.
I had to step up and take control and pretty much me and my other sister raised our other two siblings.
If you're going to start going down all that and stuff, then why don't you just get slaves too?
Yeah, yeah.
Like just because the Bible says.
We were just trying to get to the bottom of all the ideas and from my perspective,
it was more so we could work so we could understand the other side so we could explain
why Christianity was right.
But it just so happened for me that.
The same feelings and experiences that I would have on like a worship night or whatever,
those exact same feelings, I'll have in a musical.
Well, I'll ask you now just to kind of go there.
Will you consider yourself a Christian now?
Welcome everyone to the Deep Drinks podcast where the guest chooses their favorite drink
and then we drink it together as we discuss the deep topics tonight.
I have the amazing, the awesome, the beautiful, the sexy, the goddess, Amy McDonald, my wife.
Oh, wow.
One intro.
Yeah. Well, this has been much requested and people have been interested to hear your side
of the story of our lives, I guess.
And today we're going to be discussing a little bit about growing up religious.
We both kind of grew up religious and also where we kind of are now, how we want to raise our kids
and a little bit about like getting into like the faith and nitty gritty.
And we have a very special drink tonight, don't we?
Yeah, we do.
What do we have?
We have a bowl of mom.
Mom? All right.
Well, let's get into it.
I popped the cork already, but do you want a pour?
Yeah, I'll pour.
Sweet.
I just went out and got it then and we're pretty excited.
It's currently 3.06 p.m. on a Monday, a public holiday and we're drinking.
This is what we do.
This is not what we do.
This is what we do every Monday.
It's a tradition of ours.
So just as we're pouring that, I wanted to kind of just mention a few things.
A lot of people would know that I used to be a youth pastor.
I used to be a youth pastor in a Pentecostal youth ministry.
I wasn't ordained, but I was in the role of youth pastor.
I went through ministry college.
However, I no longer believe I'm no longer a Christian.
And a lot of people ask, what does Amy think?
And that's what we're going to be getting into today.
And also, if you want to learn more about our
deconversion experience, more tailored to me, I did a little interview that you can link up here.
It's linked.
It's called Why I'm Not a Christian.
I did an interview with William from Will from Inspire Reflection.
And if you want to know my specific beliefs on atheism and Christianity,
I did a little two minute video called An Atheist and a Christian Have Coffee,
which was inspired by a lot of the ideas that I've kind of grown to think about over the years.
So, but today we're going to primarily focus on Amy's story with a little bit of our story
intertwined because we are married.
Yeah, we are married.
And so yeah, thank you, Amy, for appearing on the podcast, My Beautiful Wife.
And cheers to have a little sip of this.
And that's good stuff.
And I held the glass wrong.
But first, before we get into the interview, first, we're going to talk about growing up
religious, but I wanted to actually read something.
So I wrote this letter to some of our friends and family that I never actually posted.
I wrote this in 2019.
And it kind of kind of sets the tone for why we, the letter is called,
Why We Know The Longer Tent Church.
And this is part one marriage.
So I just want to read out a little paragraph from it to kind of set the tone.
And then we can kind of go from there.
So part one marriage.
I don't know many Christians who kept themselves from each other until marriage.
We did.
Why?
Because we believed and trusted that we were doing the right thing in the eyes of God
as someone who has had a bit of a muddy past when compared to my sparkling wife.
I have always felt like it was important to choose the righteous path, to honor God,
to prove to myself that I was a good man and to show Amy's loved ones that I can do more than
just take care of her and provide for her and love her that I can or Amy, but that I can help her
flourish.
I can encourage her through her fears and insecurities and that I can always try and do the
right thing.
When Amy and I first started dating, I went to therapy where my psychologist pointed out
that my anxiety stems from the fear of hurting Amy, that each endpoint of my fear has resulted
in Amy being hurt.
It was at this time that virtues like honesty, humility, admitting where I'd been wrong,
life balance, truth, which is a huge one, and good stewardship of finances became very
important to me.
When I first got married, Amy was working at Subway.
After our honeymoon, we both went straight back to work and the only day that we had off
together was Sunday.
Almost each Sunday, one of us would suggest that we should go to church and the other one
would convince us otherwise.
Sleeping in together as a newly married couple was a very special time in both of our lives.
This pattern stuck with us for a couple of months until people started mentioning to us
that they had been talking to each other and thought it was, and this is a real weather
they use, ridiculous that we did not attend church anymore.
This awkward feeling, the awkward feeling of having people think that we had slipped away
from God was not only embarrassing, but made the entire prospect of coming to church feel
awkward.
Amy and I would pray together before bed sometimes.
I would encourage Amy to pray for me out loud, which she didn't like to do.
I found it very confronting and I spent time reading books about new marriage within a
Christian worldview for people to assume that
something was up, was a little uncomfortable, but realistically understandable from a
perspective.
In church culture, when people stop attending church, it's usually a sign that something
bad has happened.
And in saying that, let's go.
Can we put this in the fridge?
We can put this in the fridge.
So, babe, explain to the viewers what type of Christianity you're brought up in.
Well, it was Catholic first.
I was brought up Catholic and I was baptized as a Catholic when I was a baby.
And then it wasn't until I was in New South Wales and it wasn't until like nine years later,
we moved up to Queensland, that we, well, I think that we changed churches and
went more down the Christian route, I guess.
What was your question again?
No, that's good.
So you said off Catholic, when was it about the age that you started getting involved
in Christianity?
And was it like Pentecostal Christianity, like praise and worship,
Hillsong, speaking in tongues?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, so you moved towards that.
How old were you when that happened?
I think nine.
I think it happened when we moved states.
And it's interesting just for the viewers sake.
I don't know a lot of this.
I'm kind of learning as we go as well.
So I'm not faking any of this.
I know bits and pieces, but I just haven't heard the whole full story.
And I remember you explaining that you, the time like I really just
believed you were brought up with were like you were taught, I guess,
that there was like demonic influence in the world.
You weren't allowed to read Harry Potter, I think it was.
That was a no-no.
No, we got given Harry Potter books for Christmas from some close relatives.
And mum and dad opened them before Christmas Day to double check what they were.
I saw that they were Harry Potter books.
And so I don't know if they returned them to Target, but got the money back and we
picked our own Christmas presents from them instead.
Was there anything else like, because obviously everyone has these stories of
like what they can and can't do as children and you look back and it's like funny now.
Is there anything else that's like funny that you think like you weren't allowed to do that you
saw your other friends doing or even in church?
Something funny.
Or like something like you thought that it was weird that you guys couldn't do,
but everyone else and like the rest of the world was seeming to do.
So Harry Potter would be one.
Yeah, well, I mean, and we weren't allowed to watch Simpsons either.
But that wasn't particularly because it was evil.
It was more because my parents thought that my younger brother seeing how Bart behaved
would influence him and then he'd become a terrible person.
Yeah, more of a naughty boy than he already is.
He already was.
He's a naughty boy.
He's not.
Do you remember when we first met?
No.
Really?
Not like, because we were like acquaintances for years and years.
Yeah.
So I don't remember the very first time we met.
I remember we were at Youth Group one of the first nights and I was sitting there.
I think it was the first time it ever came.
The night I got saved.
Well, the night I had my spiritual experience, I had been a Christian before that, I guess.
I don't know.
But the night I had that tremendous experience and you were sitting down with,
I was sitting next to Jed.
We're having a coke in connections and you were there.
And I recognized you and Jed was your ex-boyfriend.
Well, your boyfriend at the time.
And I recognized you from the photos that he bring to school.
And I was like, oh, that's your girlfriend.
And I was like, oh, hey, how are you doing?
That was the first time I think we met.
And then there's this.
Yeah, I don't remember that.
Do you remember when we went on our fake date?
Fake date?
Is this the one designer deserves?
Yeah.
Yes, I do.
What do we do there?
Designer deserves had the most amazing big pies.
And so we went there and we were pretty much bitching about the other person's
love interest at the time.
Yeah, you was complaining about some guy that you're into.
I was complaining about some girl I was into.
Yeah.
Oh, is that you're not going to finish the story?
Oh, and then you made some joke towards the end saying that if it doesn't work out
with either of these people that we should get together.
And I was like, haha, how funny.
Yeah, I was just like, I'll tell you what, yeah.
This doesn't work out.
We're going to have to start dating.
So just to skip forward a little bit.
So you were in the worship band at church.
You got involved in the youth ministry.
You were singing for carols on stage at Noosa River in front of a few thousand people,
I guess, like every year.
And now we don't attend church.
And actually, we should actually skip back a little bit.
Do you have any crazy stories about because we went to a Pentecostal church, right?
So there was speaking in tongues.
There was people thinking gold was to be in their hands.
There was miracles.
There was there was a demon possession.
Do you remember?
Do you have any like crazy stories about anything from that?
I was at a youth camp.
I don't remember how old I was.
It was like young teens.
And it was like a big, crazy worship night.
And everyone was like falling on the floor.
Was this like the youth camp that like shortly, like 2006-ish?
Like shortly after?
Oh, I'm so bad with years.
Oh, okay.
I think it was like it was like it was like the big one with the cross in there.
Oh, in the photo.
Yeah.
I think it was that one.
Maybe?
Yeah.
It might have been.
And yeah, it was a big, crazy worship night.
And my, I started feeling really nauseous.
And so I turned to my best friend at the time and said,
I'm like, I'm going to go to the bathroom.
I don't feel well.
And she followed me, followed me in.
And then I remember standing at the, like the basin in front of the mirror,
thinking I was going to throw up.
And my best friend was convinced that I had a demon inside.
So I started praying over me and trying to get me to like speaking tongues and everything,
because I'd never spoken in tongues before.
And I never did.
Yeah.
And yeah, so that was, that was a bit of a weird experience.
I remember just thinking that I'd like, I don't think I have a demon.
I just feel really nauseous right now.
Like I need to sit down.
So did that, did that cause you any concern at all?
Like when someone tells you they think you have a demon,
like does that stay with you?
Or did you just go like, no, you're wrong and kind of move on?
It did kind of stay with me for a little bit that I like had something inside me.
And then also like, what would my parents think if that was true?
Had I been a bad, had I been a bad girl?
Yeah.
So it was quite uncomfortable, but I kind of got over that as time went on.
Yeah.
I always say this to people, and I said this in the interview I referenced at the start,
that you have this profound ability not to care so much about,
like for me, it's a little insulting what I'm about to say, but it's also something that I
think is good, so it's good and bad.
So like I would say my problem is I overthink things.
So I have a lot of things thought out.
There's some good to that, but then I also worry about things or I sometimes I overanalyze.
I do that too though.
Yeah, I know.
You definitely do that too.
I'm not saying you don't.
But what I'd notice that you do do is like if your belief system changed like hugely,
like if you started believing in aliens or something, or you thought that you were somehow
Swedish or something like that, like some profound shift in your identity, you kind of
go like, okay, let's get a cheeseboard.
And like you don't care.
Like it just.
Love a cheeseboard.
Yeah, it just like it doesn't affect your like, I don't know, like a lot of people ask me like,
how is my perspective shifting so much affected you?
And like, I don't even know where you kind of stand on a lot of things because you just kind
of go with the flow.
Like you haven't changed as a person throughout any of this experience.
I think I kind of had to, I don't know, learn how to deal with stuff like that,
like with big changes and stuff because of my upbringing with my mom.
My mom had health complications from very early on in my childhood when I was like seven
and they're permanent.
And I had to, I had to step up and take control and pretty much me and my other sister raised
our other two siblings.
And yeah, so I don't know.
Anytime something big happened, like, I know, I kind of just had to move on, get on,
get on with life.
Yeah, I definitely have noticed that about you.
And like, I think having that experience growing up has definitely shaped you a lot.
Like, I noticed that a huge core value for you is wanting to have, wanting to raise our
children to have like the best child.
Yeah, you want, yeah.
And that's, and that's a big part of, a big part of my, what I want to pass on to my children
is I want, like, I'm pushing back a lot against things that I felt like I'm terrified that
our marriage is going to fall apart or that we're going to get divorced or something's
going to happen.
I am petrified of that because obviously growing up in my family, I come from a family of,
you know, divorced parents, which most people do.
And, and I just thought how much that I hurt my mom and hurt my dad and like hurt, you know,
hurt everything.
I don't want my kids to go through that.
I want to try and be as, what's the word?
It's honest with you as possible and you as honest with me as possible.
And we communicate a lot about, like, what we're going through.
And we tell each other everything, which is, which is kind of cool.
But it's kind of cool.
I think it's cool.
It's very cool.
It's very cool.
So, I guess, like, there's a lot, we could talk a lot about, like, about your experience
in church.
And I guess we'll kind of go back and forth, but we'll kind of keep this free flowing and
we'll kind of move, I guess, forward to moment in our lives where we stop the tending church.
And I am genuinely interested in your perspective, your viewpoint without me putting in too much
input on, like, how that happened.
Like, I mentioned at the start how we stopped the tending church because we wanted to, like,
cuddle in bed on a Sunday morning and wake up and watch Gordon Ramsay for four hours.
And I'm going to make you some eggs or something.
But I want to know more about, like, for me, when I started, when I started really trying
to evaluate my beliefs because I wanted to be a good father, a husband, a good dad,
when we get children and stuff.
So, I wanted to know what were you viewing that?
How were you viewing that?
Because I remember I came to you and I said, I keep talking.
I keep telling, tell me, but I mean, I, I remember, I remember that I came to you and
I said, hey, I'm looking, I'm investigating my internal beliefs, like in regards to everything,
like, everything, not just, like, Christianity.
In fact, but I knew Christianity was true at the time and everything.
But I was like, I'm going to really look into the Bible.
I'm going to really look into all these things, into science, into creation versus evolution.
I'm going to look at the evidence and I'm going to be as objective as possible.
And I said, I don't want you to come with me on, or I did say I want you to come with me
on this journey.
But I said, I don't want you to, like, question your faith or anything like that.
But I said, would you be open to just having a conversation with me?
Or, like, at least listening to the things I hear and being a soundboard?
And you said, yeah, I'd love to hear about it.
And then you booked us tickets to go see.
It was a faith and science, like, can faith and science mix a talk at the 2016 Brisbane
Science Festival?
And that, for me, was a pinnacle moment of, like, in our relationship and also in our journey.
But I'd love to hear your perspective.
Yeah, well, I love doing experiences and stuff.
And so when I saw, like, an ad come up on my Facebook for that event, I was like,
oh, Dave might be really interested.
And then I was like, well, it might be something that I could do to show that I'm
supporting him in what he's doing.
And so, yeah, I booked it and I was excited and we're going to meet up with friends down
there at the same time.
And, yeah, I thought it would be really, really interesting, like, for me to hear as well.
So that I could kind of, I don't know, understand a bit more what you were looking into, exactly.
That sounds very weird.
But I never had any, never had any issues or anything with you doing that, like going down
a different path and rediscovering who you were and what you believed and what was true
and stuff.
I never had an issue with that at all.
I found it really brave, actually, because that's a really scary thing to do.
Well, thanks, babe.
That's very nice.
I actually, I remember feeling so conflicted because I had this drive in me to look at
the evidence and go where it leads because I thought that's the best way to arrive at a
true conclusion of the universe or the world or my beliefs or whatever.
But there's, you know, there's 45,000 denominations of Christianity.
How do we know we're in the correct one?
I wanted to get to the bottom of it all.
And it was exciting, but scary.
And I remember we walked out of there after we met up with AC Grayling, the philosopher,
and he signed for us, booked for us and wrote his email in.
And I remember leaving there and then you said to me the words,
I think what you're doing is good.
And that just hit me like a ton of bricks.
It was like, it's like you kind of realized the gravity of like,
why it was so important to me.
And then you sort of got on the same page in regards to like,
okay, well, this is interesting.
Maybe we should look into this or whatever.
Yeah, but also because like people,
some people get brought up in their families in an already pre-decided religion, I guess.
So for you to kind of go outside of that, I think it was, I don't know, it was just really
nice to see that just because your family believes one thing doesn't mean that you
necessarily have to believe the same.
And at the time too, we were still Christian.
Like we didn't, we still believe what, and we were just investigating.
We were just trying to get to the bottom of all the ideas.
And from my perspective, it was more so we could work,
so we could understand the other side so we could explain why Christianity was right.
But it just so happened for me that I quickly discovered that there were a lot of holes.
And I had to be intellectually honest with myself about that, about the holes in that.
But the thing is, and this is what I keep saying is, you don't seem to care.
Like I'll point out a hole and you'll go like, okay.
And then like...
Well, like I find it interesting, but it doesn't like...
But your whole world is built on this, yeah.
And I'm like, I find it amazing, like how can you do that?
Like it's...
Well, I don't know.
Maybe because I was...
I always used to be scared that I would be like, what's that?
I'm really bad at reciting verses.
But what's that verse where it talks about being like a lukewarm Christian?
Oh yeah.
And you'd be vomited out of the mouth of God.
Yeah, I was scared that I was going to be that person.
Because I was never...
I don't know.
I was never like that extreme to be like really hot and on fire for God.
Yeah.
So you never actually had a born again experience, did you?
You kind of just grew up in the church all the way through.
And well, I'll ask you now just to kind of go there.
Will you consider yourself a Christian now?
No.
So would you consider like, well, we won't go into like a specific God,
an overall God belief.
But if you don't consider yourself a Christian, you also didn't have a deconversion,
like a ha moment in your deconversion either, did you?
A deconstructiony?
Yeah.
No, you were just kind of eventuated.
It just kind of happened.
Yeah.
That's very interesting to me.
I feel like that's not very interesting.
I feel like so many people will have these like amazing incredible stories
about there was like this one pinnacle time.
Yeah.
Where everything like clipped or whatever.
But I just, I don't know.
Yeah, but this is what I have.
I just, I need to get across to people how weird, like this is like the Amy in a nutshell.
And but it's what I love about you.
I always say you're like this rock and sometimes like I'm like a balloon that's
attached to the rock that's flying over the hills and looking at the horizon.
And you keep me grounded.
Otherwise, I'd be off in the clouds, like I'd be talking nonsense.
I'd be just insane.
And you're always like holding me down, making sure I don't go crazy, which is cool.
Like you're just, you're just a rock.
Oh, I suppose that's a good thing.
Yeah.
But I felt, I felt like I was a very bad, well not very bad, but I wasn't a great Christian.
Yeah.
Like people would, I don't know, like memorize verses in the Bible and stuff.
Like you're, you're really good at it.
You can like spit out verses and stuff.
You ask me what the verse is and I'm like, I don't know.
Like I, I never, I never really like did the homework.
Yeah.
I was just kind of there for the experience.
Yeah.
Do you, do you remember like, do you remember having like profound spiritual experiences at church?
Uh, yeah.
I say spiritual.
I don't, I don't personally believe in the spirit realm anymore.
So when I say spiritual, I'm kind of just talking like what we used at the time.
I remember being like very overwhelmed with emotions.
Um, I don't know, again at worship, at worship nights because I never, I never really liked
like the whole Bible study situation or whatever.
I'm much more connected to music and praise and worship and stuff.
That was, that was how I connected with God.
Um, and so yeah, I don't know.
You'd have, um, you'd get the feelings like when, um, how do I word this?
Um, I don't know when like the spirit enters the room or like the Holy Ghost is there.
Um, and like, and I don't know, like could be an overwhelming happiness or, um,
or I would just like sit there and cry.
Like, yeah, I know.
Like I was a 13 year old girl with like PMS or something and my emotions were going everywhere.
Yeah.
It's, well, I was the same.
I was, I was a, you know, there was many times when I would, um, like even at a youth cramp,
the one where you thought you were demon possessed, I remember,
No, I didn't think I was.
No, no, sorry.
Someone thought you were demon possessed.
I thought it was fine.
Yeah.
Um, I remember, um, like feeling conflicted about like I went to my bed and I was,
I was feeling sick as well or something.
And I felt conflicted about, I was like, there's so many services and I was a new Christian,
new, like I newly became involved with three weeks in.
And I remember like finally going to it and like breaking down.
I remember being on my knees, weeping, crying in front of everyone.
Everyone else was crying as well.
And just crying and crying and, and, um, screaming in the top of my lungs,
like speaking in tongues, like, um, just overwhelming experience.
Yeah.
People tried to force me to speak in tongues.
I hated it.
It used to, to be honest, um, it used to scare me a little bit when we were Christian and we
would be on a church and I knew that you weren't speaking in tongues with an active because
at the time our belief system was that, um, speaking in tongues was evidence
that you were baptized in the spirit.
And Jesus said that you have to.
This is why I was a bad Christian because I couldn't speak in tongues.
And that, um, you're, you're supposed to be baptized with water and the spirit to enter
the kingdom of heaven.
And that used to concern me.
I was like, I was like, and I used to like try and encourage you.
I would never like push you, but I would try and encourage you to, you know,
we'd go to prayer meetings or something and I'd try and help you like pray for me.
And I used to try and like show you, I wanted you to, I was like,
I'm not judging you.
You don't, there's no wrong answers.
You can't say anything that's going to offend me or God.
Like just, I feel like there are wrong answers.
Yeah.
I know.
And I was trying to help you, um, uh, get over that.
And now you're doing the same thing, but with Dungeons and Dragons or now you're like,
you're getting over it now instead of praying out loud in front of everyone and speaking
your, you know, thoughts, you're now playing Dungeons and Dragons with, um, you know,
with India, Tom and all of us.
And, uh, you have to like, oh, I want to explore over here.
And you're speaking.
So it's, yeah, it's scary for you.
And you're, yeah.
So you're over, you're still over coming at the same thing.
That's great.
Um, yeah.
So it was, uh, it's, it's really interesting how like how perspective can change so much.
And one thing that I've learned through all of this is when I first moved away from faith
is, um, and my perspective shifted so drastically is I realized like life is crazy
and you've got to enjoy it, try and enjoy the ride even in the hard times.
Cause eventually you're going to get to like, oh, and be like, wow,
all those things I was worried about, I shouldn't have worried about,
I should have just enjoyed it in the meantime.
So I used to get so scared.
And so I used to go up on top of the mountain and pray over Nusa to break the demonic spiritual
bonds of the enemy that have, you know, and then, uh, yeah.
The spiritual stuff always freaked me out a little bit.
Yeah.
Who tells about it?
I don't know.
It was just like,
I don't know.
It was some, it was something that I couldn't control.
Um, and I don't know.
It just gave me like icky feelings.
Interesting.
Interesting.
I know some people who say that, that they get icky feelings at churches.
Yeah.
And I'm like, that's weird because like I used to get the opposite.
Like going to a church, I'm like, ah.
But like this is like the, so I, I told you this the like a week ago or something,
but the same same feelings and experiences that I would have on like a worship night or
whatever, those exact same feelings, I'll have it in musical.
Yeah.
That's been, that spins me out.
Exactly.
Yeah.
That's like that excitement, that joy, that, that like
I don't know, emotion of wanting to cry or whatever.
Yeah.
And, and I never had that, that same thing.
Oh, actually sometimes I might hear something and will remind me of God or something.
And I would start crying or praying and will feel these immense feelings,
but I never would equate that.
But do you know what's going to happen on this podcast?
People are going to say that you were never a Christian and they're going to say I was never
a Christian.
I told you I was a bad Christian.
No, but I mean, they'll, they'll quote the Bible to say that.
Just that says, you know, if they, if they have left us and never once for us.
So they use the Bible to prove the Bible.
So it's like plugging an extension cord into itself.
There's no power getting into that bad boy, you know,
but we were actually, so just to shift gears a little bit, we were actually just recently
down in Brisbane catching up with our friends and they're not Christian at all.
They don't believe in God or anything or gods.
So they atheists, but they were saying that we're talking, we're having many drinks.
I definitely was having many drinks.
You were having fewer, but still many drinks.
And we were talking about, and Jen, she was mentioning that she thinks is like bull crap,
this perspective that this perspective that society has on women, if women sleep around,
heaps with his people, they're slut.
If a dude sleeps around with a bunch of people, he's a legend.
And, and I was also mentioning how, you know, I got a friend recently came out as queer.
So he's married, got kids and stuff, but he's bisexual and he came out and he was queer.
He did don't face as queer.
And because he was a male, he had all these gay guys come after him on Twitter and say,
no, you're not like, stop, you're just doing this for clout.
And I'm like, this is also, it's also bullshit on the other perspective where
dude's sexuality is seen as like offer on, like you're either gay or you're straight,
where women are almost expected to be bisexuals or expected to be queer in some,
in some perspective.
Anyway, we had this like conversation in this, in this, in this pub and talking about like the
different, different like ways that society views people and, and, and stuff.
And how it's all kind of like bad sometimes.
But you had some interesting experiences that were different to gents because you
grew up in church with purity culture.
And we started talking about that and I'm wondering if you had any thoughts on that.
Do you remember what we're talking about?
No, you're gonna have to refresh my memory.
So you were saying you, you were taught that your body would make men stumble and it was
your responsibility.
Yeah.
So do you want to explain that to the viewers?
Because a lot of viewers don't understand this concept.
That you can't, you can't wear short skirts or dresses above a certain length.
You can't show cleavage or anything like that because if you do and you, I don't know,
you go out to the shops or you go to a youth group or, or you go to church or anything,
go anywhere, you will cause a men to stumble and lust over you.
And that is bad.
And so we were, yeah, it was kind of like be ashamed of your body because you're making
somebody else do something bad.
But then also, we're also a responsibility, we have the responsibility to not tempt you.
So you guys, it was kind of like you guys, the guys are never in the wrong.
Mm.
The girls have to cover up and the girls have to be responsible for not
making you guys feel a certain way or seeing something that you can't control.
Cause then, yeah.
And, and, and I mentioned how we were, we were essentially in youth group have,
this is going to sound so messed up when I say youth group.
And this is what we were all discussing and talking about, but we used to have like,
essentially, I mean, we're all teenagers, but we used to have essentially,
like small groups, we were like, try not to masturbate clubs, essentially.
It's like, how do you know, how do you, what do you do when you don't
just stop yourself from masturbating and stuff?
And what happened is you have like all these hormonal, extremely hormonal dudes
who would try their hardest not to masturbate for weeks, for days, weeks on end,
when their hormones gone crazy.
And then if they do see like a centimeter of cleavage or a woman's ankle, they're like,
I'm going to like pray for me.
I need help.
Like, and it creates this like spiral of, of shame and guilt around.
And I love what our previous guest said, links up here.
Heathen Queen, she said, not honoring the needs of your body.
And that really resonated with me.
However, and also I found it, found it really interesting that
like men were taught, we were essentially predators as well.
Like you got to control yourself.
And they used to always say that you got to control yourself.
Otherwise you're going to just be like impregnating people and like going,
going crazy.
You're going to end up in jail for killing someone because you just can't resist
raping and murdering.
And so if you did that, if you're going to kill someone, that's our fault.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, it would be our fault, but that's how you, yeah, you guys would have seen it,
which is stupid, right?
So it's this, it's this dichotomy.
But what annoys me a little bit, I'm like going into my feminist mode a little bit.
I'm going into my feminist mode a little bit.
And it's like, why can't women objectify men?
Why can dudes walk around with short shorts or the shirts off or whatever?
Why can't they go home and masturbate and thinking about the men that they saw?
It's, it's kind of a double standard.
And it's like a, even that's like a, um, a devaluing of women's sexual urges,
because women can be just as deviant as men, like they're kind of like told that their bodies
and then at the same time, men are expected to always want sex or whatever.
And I know some people who, you know, you know, if the husband doesn't want sex or the
partner doesn't want sex, the woman takes it as like extremely like, what is wrong with me?
What's wrong with my body?
Like, what's wrong?
And it's like, well, sometimes someone doesn't want to have like, there's all these really weird,
like social constructs around sexuality that I think are just cringe, to be honest.
Yeah.
I've started ranting.
It's always gets to about this stage where I start to, the alcohol kicks in.
Maybe we should have a quick break and get another glass.
In top up.
Yeah.
Okay.
So we're back and we're going to start talking about what Amy believes and why.
Gosh.
So, babe, what do you believe?
So you're not a Christian.
You don't, well, you say you're not a Christian.
Have you thought much about what you believe in like the greater scheme of things?
No.
Okay.
So up to the Q and A. That's a great interview.
Wow.
Okay.
So you really haven't thought about like, do you, I remember, I remember once when I came to bed
and I was kind of freaking out right at the start before the science festival and I was like,
what if the doctrine of hell is wrong or heaven and hell is wrong?
And you're like, I don't like that.
I don't like that.
And I was like, yeah, I know it doesn't feel good.
And then you said to me, we should enjoy our lives and we should like, and that's why I think we,
part of why we booked our big world trip.
Oh, that's right.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
That did scare me.
Yeah.
And all it was was the thought that the doctrine was wrong because I'd been speaking to some,
a different type of Christian from the Pentecostal Christians.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But then I know, I like, I always liked as one part of the Bible that I did like was that,
I know there was heaven and hell, not necessarily that I liked that there was hell,
but I liked that there was heaven, that there was something to go to after your time here was done.
And so to think that that was potentially now taken away from me, it was quite scary.
Do you think, are you sitting as close as you were to the might before?
I kind of know.
Yeah, you're fine the way you are now.
But do you think that, like, do you think, do you remember what might have like,
why you had the thought of like, what if it wasn't, was it just because I mentioned it or
were you, did I mention anything specific about why there might not be a heaven or a hell?
Not that I can remember.
Do you mean like why it spooked me?
Yeah, you know why it spooked you.
I think just because I had, I had a very fantasy idea of what heaven was.
I thought that if someone or something or someone passed away that they would be up in heaven
looking down on you and that they can still watch you, still be proud of you,
still, I don't know, I don't know, see what are you doing?
You weren't like, alone, they didn't really leave, they're still there.
And you don't hold that perspective anymore?
No, no, I don't think, I haven't really thought about it.
You mentioned, in the pre-interview for this interview, you mentioned something about
how you realized just recently, when you went to pray and you realized,
maybe you can explain, but you went to, there was something that was concerning you
and you went to pray about it.
Is that right?
Yeah, well, you're like, I don't know, you kind of taught that if anything,
I don't know, you kind of taught to pray all the time anyway, but if something is worrying you
or bothering you or whatever, you can turn to God and you can talk to him about it and
potentially have him lift that weight off your shoulder.
And I can't, I can't remember what it was, but I remember feeling really uneasy,
realizing that I didn't believe in God anymore.
So therefore that coping mechanism, I guess, was then also taken from me.
So I didn't have, I didn't have something to pray to or talk to that would help alleviate my
stress or concerns or whatever.
Yeah.
Yeah, it was really unsettling.
I remember there was like lots of like unconscious habits that I would build as well,
like driving to the Brisbane city.
I would be nervous about driving in the city and I'll pray and then I'll,
God's taking care of it.
It's all good.
I would drive.
Yeah, it's kind of like shifting, I don't know, is it shifting responsibility?
Irresponsibility is not the right word.
But yeah, I don't know, you're giving, I don't know, you're giving control to something else that
has your best, what's the word I'm looking for?
Yeah.
Has the best intentions for you?
And it probably does.
It probably works.
Like praying to something and believing that everything is going to be okay, it probably works.
I think it definitely helps with letting go of staff.
I just don't think there is a thing there.
It works, but it just doesn't think it has a thing there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I actually remember when I was really anxious, one point in my life, when I was doing that,
that evaluating everything thing for the few years that I did it.
I still kind of do it, but I remember being so anxious, like at an eight, like panic attack.
I didn't want to take valium and I wanted to go to sleep and wake up in the morning and be okay.
And I went to pray to God.
And I went to pray as I normally wouldn't say and ask God to remove it so that the next morning
I would wake up and I wouldn't feel anxious.
And then I stopped myself.
I can't remember if I've ever told you this.
And I said, I'm going to test this.
I'm going to sacrifice my anxiety tomorrow and I'm just going to pray to a jug of milk.
And I prayed to the jug of milk.
I said, jug of milk, please make it so tomorrow I wake up in peace and happiness
and I don't have this anxiety anymore.
And the next morning I woke up feeling fantastic and I was like going to work and I was going to
work and I was so happy and stuff.
And then I was like, this is awesome.
I was like, why am I so happy today?
And I was like, and I just, and I thought back and I was like,
and like, because I'd forgotten about it until about lunchtime.
And I was like, wait a minute.
I prayed last night and because I was actually like, I was really happy,
like if my anxiety had left.
And I was like, so I was questioning like what, like I'm feeling really good.
This has been a while since I've felt good.
And then I was like, I would have, I would have said that I prayed and God has healed me
of this anxiety, but I prayed to a jug of milk.
Yeah.
And I was like, so I was like, I don't believe in the jug of milk.
So I was like, I can touch and feel the jug of milk.
But I don't believe the jug of milk has like these special
You're right, babe.
You're right.
It's like that old, um, the teapot, the teapot analogy.
Like you don't know that there's a tip, not a teapot orbiting satin.
Yeah.
And it's like, well, I guess we don't know.
Isn't it a, um, oh, where was I going with that?
Isn't it like a, isn't it like a psychology thing?
Like where I think, I think you were taught it if I remember this.
Right.
But like decide to, if you're anxious about a particular topic, um, like I'm anxious about
carrots, I don't know why, but, um, sure, why not?
Um, then like set a time aside later on in the day to worry about it then.
And then you can continue on with your day and then when you get to that time,
then you can worry about it.
It's kind of similar.
Yeah, it's just missing.
It's just, it's giving a reason to dismiss the fear almost.
Yeah.
For a certain period of time.
I'm allowed to worry about it as much as I want at 7pm or it's all right.
God's got this under control.
All the magical milk jug doesn't, yeah, it's interesting.
But I didn't feel good when I prayed to the milk jug.
I thought it was stupid, but I was just testing the idea and I was very expecting to wake up
not having, like having the anxiety still behind, you know, I mean, that wouldn't have
been proof of anything either.
Just the same way praying to it resulted in my anxiety going, that's not proof of anything
either, but it was just interesting that it went different to my, how I expected to do.
And I know that, like, you know, there's always a way to dismiss all these ideas.
Well, maybe that was the devil.
So the devil stopped attacking you because you prayed to the drug of milk.
And so the devil wanted to trick you.
So he stopped attacking you and he was attacking you before because he knew that you're going
to pray to the drug of milk.
And then now, you know, and like, so there's always a way to like wiggle out of anything.
And eventually, if you, if you push these fundamentalist Christians,
go, we can ask him when we get there or you just got to have faith.
People used to ask me, like, when I got to heaven and met God, what would I ask him?
I would never think of anything smart.
The only thing I could ever think of was, I wonder why mosquitoes were created.
Yeah.
What good do mosquitoes have?
Yeah.
I mean, they might have some like environmental thing,
but not that I'm aware of.
And they're just stupid.
Well, little things that fly around and hurt you.
Yeah.
Well, I think I could give you an unapologist answer to that.
I think that what went all creatures, vegetarians before the fall and the fall made them all.
So, so Lyons.
Who says that?
Where does it say that?
It says that somewhere in the Bible and all the jaguars were using that to eat lettuce,
you know, using their big teeth eat lettuce.
Yeah.
I mean, it's weird.
But this is what like Ken Ham and Ken Hovens ministries say, like the answers in Genesis,
the earth is 6,000 years old kind of stuff.
They go, yeah, they're all vegetarian.
But I mean, if you believe the earth is 6,000 years old, why not?
Why not believe that penguins walk from Antarctica to the Middle East to get in a boat,
sailed around with no food for a year and then walk back to Antarctica?
Like, why not?
Why not believe all these things?
It's just, seriously, it's just like, no or any magical zoo boat.
You know, it's just, it's just, you know, when you start believing absurdities,
it's just, just add as many as you want.
I think that's another reason why I bought you those tickets to that science thing,
because I feel like I remember reading in like the subject,
like the subject lines of what they were going to debate.
It was something about like evolution and faith.
Yeah.
At the same time.
Or it was kind of faith and science mix, I think.
Yeah.
But there was something specific in there about evolution.
Oh, yeah.
And you were looking into evolution at the time.
So I was like, oh, this might help answer some questions and they can coexist.
Yeah.
It was really interesting too, because I go over that in my other video,
but essentially like on stage, there was like two types of Christians.
I think a Catholic, a Muslim, a Hindu.
That's what you're going to say.
Crack head.
No.
And, and someone else, like they're all looking in front of the faith and an atheist.
And all of them were agreeing that their faith, their exclusive faith that is, you know, like,
you, everyone else's faith is wrong.
My faith is only the correct one.
And science had no problem co-mingling.
Like they were perfect together.
And the atheist was like, what are you talking about?
No.
Like he's like, and that's who we got the books, AC Grayling.
And he was like, he was saying, yeah, he was saying essentially like, well, no,
he believes that science is the antithesis to faith.
Faith says, this is true.
Let's find evidence to support it.
Well, this is true.
I believe it.
And science goes, remove as much belief as you possibly can.
And let's look at the data and see if we can build models from that data.
It's much more boring and doesn't give you those warm fuzzy feelings.
Let's go say a musical.
It's probably true.
It's probably more likely to be true.
Yeah.
So moving.
So because you're like a dirty heathen now and we're heathens, what do you think of?
Well, we're unbelievers, I guess you could say.
What do you think about like how we're going to raise our kids?
What kind of parents are we going to be?
So this became, this was quite interesting, quite interesting for me
because I actually wrote this document called Parental Values because I was like, oh,
shit, what do I teach them?
Is it okay to steal?
I don't know.
Like I used to, we're all gone like, no.
What do you mean?
Well, this is exactly what I'm talking about.
Like the Bible says it's not okay to steal, obviously.
And I think that's probably a good point.
But we take it for granted only because we're taught as kids it's not okay to steal.
It's one of the 10 commandments.
So it's like, I'm like, whoa.
Yeah, I suppose it's also against the law.
Yeah.
I mean, there's that too.
But like there's heaps of things.
Like what parental values, like how do we draw on our morals and ethics?
Where do we get them from as parents?
What kind of parents are we going to be?
I feel like you just asked me like five different questions.
Can you just give me one?
Yeah, yeah.
Has your perspective changed at all from, well, I think you're just going to say no,
right?
Because you don't, you just ask me the question.
Have your parental values at all changed?
Or have you thought about that since you've lost your belief system?
Because you've changed your belief system?
I mean, like, yeah, some of them might have changed.
Like they wouldn't be, they're not exactly the same as when I was Christian back in the old days.
Yeah, some of them definitely would have changed.
I'd like things to be based a little bit more on reality, not fantasy.
But I mean, it's good.
It's good for kids to have fantasy as well.
So yeah, would you try to have Santa Claus on the truth fairy?
Well, exactly.
There's a good, there's a good example.
I've, I really like Halloween.
And that's been a real sticking point for you because you grew up
thinking it was actual evil spirits.
Yeah, we were never allowed to do Halloween.
We would lock all the doors, turn all the lights off.
And if someone knocked on the door, Dad would tell us, don't answer it.
Yeah, where now we live in a community where there are a lot of new families.
And on Halloween, like all little kids, like little Elsa's come to the door
and you're like, hey, hey, they're like the little ones.
And it's the most adorable thing.
And I love it.
Like, you know who Elsa is now?
No, I knew who she was before that, but like they're all dressed up as like
princesses and like, you know, or someone might come in like Star Wars
and you're like, this is freaking adorable.
And they're just having the time of their life.
It's like one big theme park, all these kids running around.
And I love it.
Those parts are adorable.
The people that come, that come with like a knife around their throat
or like blood coming out of their eyes or something like that.
That's not adorable, in my opinion.
But I like that stuff.
I think that stuff's fun as well.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But yeah, that's been like a, that was really hard for you to kind of embrace
at the start.
Hey, like when we...
Yeah, it's scary.
It was taught as evil.
So to like re-train my brain like that, it's really hard.
But maybe it is wrong.
I don't know.
Like how do we evaluate whether or not it's going to cause trauma to these kids?
Because I see, I actually noticed a lot of time now that a lot of Christian children
are totally unprepared for the world.
Like they're totally, they're so sheltered that they could see like two people like kissing
down the street or someone punching someone on the arm and start crying like five year olds.
And you're like...
Oh yeah, it depends on everyone's upbringing.
Yeah.
But it's like, damn, like I feel like that's more harmful to a child
than giving them a few nightmares of the horror movie.
I mean, I'm kind of going to be extreme there, being a bit hyperbolic.
But do you know what I mean?
It depends.
I feel like I've been crippled by a horror movie.
But you're there.
And how old were you when you saw that?
15?
I don't know.
You would have been 15, 16, maybe 17.
Yeah, maybe.
And you've been crippled by a horror movie.
Still.
Yeah.
To this day.
Yeah.
The ring.
Yeah.
Stereos.
Yeah.
You see, now I think...
Don't be coming at me with your black long hair over your face.
Yeah.
Static tibia.
No, thank you.
I think that...
Or a well.
You see, I think if you grew up experiencing more of those things,
you wouldn't have such a traumatic experience.
This is just a thought.
Yeah, potentially.
But I'm also a very visual person.
Yeah.
And maybe that's...
And so like faces and stuff stick in my head.
So if there's like...
I could watch like a...
I don't know.
I could watch a horror movie,
but it doesn't necessarily have a...
I don't know how to word this,
like a main character face.
And be fine.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, actually.
No, no, no.
I was just thinking the call is a great example,
but I don't think the call is classified as a horror.
I think it's a thriller.
But I love the call.
It's a great movie.
But like the ring or like it or anything like that,
where it has like a...
I don't know.
It has like this persona.
It sticks in my head.
And I can't get that image out of my head.
Yeah.
So it scares me.
I wonder if though...
Like I could break up and it'd be right there.
I wonder if that is happening though,
because of your upbringing of not being exposed
to mild forms of horror or thriller or...
Yeah.
But then you just told that it's...
This is why you don't watch scary movies,
because it lets the devil in.
Yeah.
I know.
And that's terrifying.
I remember to get told Pokemon was going to do that to me.
Oh, yeah.
I really don't watch Pokemon either.
Yeah.
I know.
I think that's...
That can be a form.
Like I feel like it acts the same as child abuse.
If you tell someone that there's actual demons out there
ready to kill them and that they're going to hell,
I think that's a form of child abuse.
It's a spooky story in itself.
Hell is.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's more than a spooky story.
It's absolutely disgusting.
Like in...
I remember...
To tell anyone they're going to hell,
it's absolutely disgusting.
I remember being told that some woman like woke up
in the middle of the night,
because she had this really like tight chest
and she woke up and she could see like demons
and stuff sitting on her chest and raining it down.
Yeah.
That really freaked me out.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That was so scary.
And then you go to church every Sunday
and you learn about how God's trying to take back
the ground from the enemy and the devil
and it becomes very real.
And then you go to a party and you think,
oh, are the demons here?
Like this kid's drinking them.
That's bad stuff.
Yeah.
So having Halloween, people are dressing up as...
I don't know, people from horror movies or...
I mean, you do get cute dress-ups like Elsa and Garfield
and whoever and they're cute.
They're fine.
But the scary stuff is like letting demons into your life.
Don't do that.
That's scary.
All right.
Well, what I'm going to do...
You could be possessed.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to hit you
with a few evangelical Christians' worst nightmares.
I'm going to throw them at you.
Like a child comes home and does X.
What's your reaction?
Well, as me now or as a Christian.
As you now.
So I'm going to throw it like...
Okay.
So our 15-year-old boy is called Smoking Cigarettes.
What do you do?
We'll take them off him for starters.
He's not old enough to have them.
He's not old enough to make that decision.
And give him the...
Let him know why it's not great to smoke cigarettes
and the health implications.
Okay.
I'm not going to interject too much on this.
I also hate smoking.
I'm not going to...
I hate the smell.
I'm not going to give you my points on this.
I'm just going to like rapid-fire these out to you.
Okay, right?
Our 13-year-old...
I'm not saying I'm right.
Yeah, yeah.
No, no, no.
This is just your opinion.
Our 13-year-old daughter comes home and says that...
She's a tomboy and she goes,
I want to identify as a male.
I'm transgender.
Okay.
Cool.
Is that what you do?
You just say, okay.
Like doesn't worry you?
Like you just go...
No.
High five.
Let's go get some...
Like...
Yeah.
I don't know.
It doesn't worry me.
I mean, my family might have something to say about it.
Yeah.
But it doesn't...
That would be so funny.
Both our families would be interested in that one.
Doesn't bother me.
I still love them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
How weird to love your trials.
Sorry.
Okay.
Our 15-year-old son comes home.
Why are you going around this age?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because it's the questions I'm trying to...
Like the things that are popping in my head.
Our 15-year-old son comes home and says,
hey, I feel like they're in a son.
Boy, comes home and says,
hey, this is Jeremy, my boyfriend.
Nice to meet you, Jeremy.
It wouldn't be like that.
You didn't know he was gay or anything.
Like he was just...
What?
Yeah.
Well, you just...
Would you just be like, oh, okay.
Hey.
Yeah.
I think I would.
Well, I said I wasn't going to direct,
but that's freaking awesome.
That's exactly what I want to do as well.
I have no issues with it whatsoever.
Yeah.
I don't want our children if they were...
Like, why do they have to come out?
Exactly.
Exactly.
Like...
I hope they just pop in and you're like, oh, boyfriend.
Oh, girlfriend.
Yeah, cool.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Who cares?
All right.
You see.
Well, this is what evangelicals would lose sleep over usually.
Most, not all.
Most.
Okay.
I'm getting hot and flustered now.
Oh, from you getting angry at the...
No, I think the alcohol is just you.
Okay.
The...
We find out that one of our children has been racist to someone online.
Not okay.
So what would you do?
Like, you find them like messaging someone racist stuff online.
Oh.
Well, I'd probably sit down and talk with them and find, like, why...
Why do they think it's appropriate to talk to another person like that?
Okay.
What if they were in the other person's shoes?
Yeah.
How would they feel?
Yeah.
As a Christian, I'd probably give the same answers.
Interesting.
To be honest.
You see, I...
Because like I said, I was a bad Christian.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Or a good human, depending on how you want to look at it.
But like, yeah, for me...
Like, I had gay friends.
Well, for me, though, I would try and like help them not be gay
if I was like a super Christian.
Oh, I wouldn't do that.
Because I knew they were going to hell for it, right?
Oh, no.
I had in my head that like, Jesus loves everyone.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
So it's fine.
And well, I didn't necessarily do that, by the way.
But it's like, that's where a lot of people go is they're like,
my child is gay or transgender.
They're not going to go to heaven.
And then it causes them to be seriously messed up in their head.
Yeah.
I think it really...
What's the word?
Like scared, I guess, that my little brother would become gay.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Interesting.
Because like, he was one boy out of...
He had three old assistants.
Oh, and the girls were going to spread the gay to him.
Yeah, a little bit.
Yeah.
And like, painting nails and stuff.
Like, we would all be doing it.
So then he would want to be included and do that also.
But that didn't mean anything.
It comes from this like weird thing of like, you can turn someone...
You can give someone the gaze.
It's so bizarre.
Yeah, it's a lot of like, a lot of underlying homophobia in society,
just in people's perspectives and stuff, I think.
Yeah, well, our friends, like my friend, they were gay.
We weren't allowed to tell them they were gay.
Yeah.
And that's weird.
What about...
Okay, I think I've got it.
I think...
Oh, okay.
I got a good one.
Our little baby girl, she's two.
She's just learning to talk.
Okay.
And...
Oh, no.
Do I know what you're going to say?
And she goes...
And we see...
And we're like, do you want to go to bed?
And she's like, fuck off.
What do you do?
Or she swears.
Let's just say she swears.
And I think it's hilarious.
I swore as a kid.
I was on a bus or something with Grandi.
One time.
You swore one time as a kid.
I don't know.
This is just the story I've been told multiple times.
I was on the bus with Grandi and a truck went past.
And so I said, the effort.
When I saw it and Grandi was mortified.
Yeah.
You see, that's...
Because I did it in a public setting.
You see, I would burst out like...
If our child was saying...
Saying like...
Oh, see, I would find...
It's a fucking goat.
I would lose it.
Like, sure, it's funny when they're like...
I don't know, when they're like two or whatever.
But as soon as they start getting to like,
if a 10-year-old or something,
started swearing at me and telling me to go f off or whatever,
I would have a real issue with it.
Oh, they swore at me.
I'd...
Yeah.
I would have a huge issue with it.
Yeah.
Smacking.
I think I'm against it.
Same.
I was smacked as a kid.
Yeah.
And it was horrible.
Yeah.
I don't...
I don't care about that.
I just think...
I think the science...
Like, the behavioral science is pretty conclusive
that smacking does nothing but bad things for the child.
Like, I would kick and scream
and so I'd be pinned down to the floor
and they would sit on my back
so that they could smack me.
Or leave like...
Like, voted handprints on my butt.
Yeah.
Because they smacked me so hard.
Because you're just doing it out of anger.
Yeah.
That's not gonna...
Yeah.
And achieve anything.
Exactly.
And the...
Like, I think behavioral science says,
like, you shouldn't smack.
It's not a good idea.
But then the Bible says,
spare the rod and spoil the child.
Meaning that if you don't belt your child with a rod,
like a stick, that you'll spoil them.
And, you know, so that's why in society,
the conservative Christians,
usually the ones that were still smacking
and progressives are the ones saying,
probably not a good idea to physically abuse your children.
Probably not.
So, yeah.
But, you know, once again, I'm only very...
I'm just slightly familiar with the literature.
I haven't read too much about it.
But, yeah, it's an interesting perspective
because I used to be awful.
I used to be awful, right?
Yeah.
When I was a teenager...
I think that's just because that's how I was brought up, though.
So, I thought it was normal.
I thought that's how you did think it was.
Yeah.
I didn't realize that there were other avenues
that you could go down.
Has your perspective at all changed
on things like global warming
since now you don't believe in...
Like climate change since now you don't believe in a God?
No.
So, like, so for me before,
I used to always be like,
why bother about cleaning up the planet?
We're going to be in heaven
and God's going to renew the planet himself.
No, I never had that thought.
I never had the mentality of like...
What do you say?
Like, using Earth as like a doormat to heaven.
Like wiping your feet.
I've never been like that.
Yeah, you see, so yeah.
You're a bad Christian.
I'm trying to be nice to people and things.
Yeah.
What are animals?
What do you mean?
What about animals?
Like, people don't know you're a vegetarian.
Yes, I am.
Do you think that part of your...
Like, has your belief system shaped around that at all?
Like, have you decided to become a vegetarian
because you're like, okay, other creatures,
we're animals as well.
Other creatures are sentient or anything like that?
Or is it just because you're like...
When I started, it started off for health reasons.
I felt like I wasn't necessarily eating that great,
like good nutrient food.
And so, even when we first got married
and we were still eating meat and stuff,
I would still rather load something up with veggies.
Like, I wanted to pack veggies into whatever we're eating.
Yeah, I know.
And then it just kind of progressed.
I definitely don't like harming other animals and stuff.
But that's not truthfully why I started going vegetarian.
Yeah, but what do you think now though,
let's say if you were to become a Christian all of a sudden
and you were to then re-adopt the idea that
we have dominion over the animals.
Would that change your perspective?
No.
You see, this is what I mean.
Your belief systems don't really inform your choice.
I'm a bad Christian.
Bad Christian, good human.
I'd much rather you be a good human than a bad Christian
and rather the same thing for myself.
But if you're going to start going down all that stuff,
then why don't you just get slaves too?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like just because the Bible says.
Yeah, the Bible says you can keep slaves, own slaves,
beat slaves as long as they don't die in a few days.
It was not workers, everyone.
It was people taken from other nations
that you could sell to other people
and you could pass down to your children as inheritance.
If you want to use biblical morality,
that's what it was.
And if you don't believe me,
check out the Hebrew expert and a seriologist
I had on the podcast Dr Joshua Bowen
who has written a book on the matter
does the Old Testament condone slavery.
Short answer, yes.
It's an easy read podcast up there.
So jumping on to the Q&A.
Now we've got a few questions.
Hit me.
All right, cool.
So this has come from people in the discord.
My discord server just reminded everyone to join it.
We're having great conversations over there
and some friends and family.
Let me just check.
This is delicious.
It is delicious.
Okay.
After your shift in perspective,
did you feel as though you had had to figure out your identity?
As church sometimes overemphasizes the role of wife.
As in like how a wife should be in a household kind of thing.
What do you mean?
So sometimes I think what the person was saying
was sometimes the church makes it out
that you're a wife to your husband.
So you're like, you're a subservient to me.
And that you, yeah.
But I feel like we've never run out
and we've always been equal in our relationship.
We always both have equal say.
There's no buck stops with anyone, buck stops with anyone.
We discuss things till three in the morning sometimes
to like arrive at a point we both agree with.
But did you think your identity, your perspective,
did you, after your shift in perspective,
did you feel as though you had to figure out your identity?
I mean, yes and no in different ways.
I didn't, it wasn't necessarily a shift in identity
because I was no longer a Christian.
It was more the, I don't know, like the habits that I had in place
when I was a Christian, like getting up and going to church every Sunday.
Or you gotta know, losing that community, I guess, was tough.
But at the same time, I was kind of fine with losing it as well
because I felt like it kind of got to a stage
where people started becoming really standoffish
and wouldn't really talk to me anymore.
So then it was like, well, do I want to be here?
Not really.
And yeah, like habits, like not being able to pray when I got anxious and stuff.
It was hard.
But as far as your identity to that change at all,
that when you say identity, that really trips me up.
How you viewed yourself as a person in society.
I think it kind of actually helped me a bit, to be honest.
Like when I was a Christian and stuff, because my dad wasn't really around much
because he was trying to provide for our family and stuff.
I didn't get too much of like a father-daughter bond.
I did in my early years until everything shifted with mum.
And then dad had to provide for us, which is fine.
He did the best that he could at the time.
I don't blame him for anything.
But it changed our relationship because he wasn't around.
And so then it was kind of like, you're taught very much in church, like God loves you.
And I don't know, like that side of things, like God accepts you for who you are.
He's there for you, kind of like a father figure kind of thing.
So I think I relied on that heavily when I was a Christian.
But then when I wasn't necessarily a Christian, has it eventuated?
I don't know.
It was kind of nicer.
I wasn't relying necessarily on God to accept myself.
So it was kind of for the better.
That's really nice.
Like I don't care as much what people, like I still care what people think of me,
but I don't care as much as what I used to.
And I'm not relying on, I don't know, people to pray for me and give me prophecies
and tell me God loves you and all this stuff.
Like I'm not reliant on that anymore, which is kind of freeing.
Has it made you feel more confident?
Yeah, in a way.
Yeah, it's weird.
Yeah.
So I suppose it kind of has shifted my identity, I guess.
Or just being confident in yourself.
Yeah, I think there's a lot to say about that, actually.
Yeah, I know how to explain it.
No, that was really good explanation.
These are all kind of in random order.
But if our family wanted to bring our children to church, would you let them?
Yes, I would.
I wouldn't let them take them every week because we might want to do something with the kids,
take them out for a picnic or go for a bike ride or something.
But I have no issues with our children being exposed to Christianity or other religions.
Right, yeah.
Because my follow up for that would be if we had family members that converted to Islam or
Judaism or Hinduism or Satanism, would you be okay with them attending those things?
Like going to temple, going to the synagogue or the mosque?
Yeah, I think it's...
I don't think there's anything wrong with going.
I think it would help open their eyes to the rest of the world.
Like not everyone sees things the way that we see them.
I think it's educational.
And then when they come back here, we talk about what they experienced, what they saw,
and talk them through it.
Cool. That's so awesome.
Will you... What if this is kind of the same similar question, but someone asked it?
It's very similar, but what if one of our family members or friends wanted to tell our children,
young children, about Jesus?
So the message of Jesus, which is generally that by accepting him,
you go to heaven and not accepting him, you go to hell.
Again, it's kind of like an educational experience.
Like there are other religions that also have, I think...
Yeah, I think the Islam is way worse than the Christian hell.
Yeah, so I think it's educational.
And again, just talk about it when they come back.
Okay, cool.
You don't want to shield your children from it?
Yeah, no. Well, I'm trying not to interject too much,
because I think I've done so much talking in this, but yeah, I would agree.
I don't think that... I think you need to expose your children to a whole variety of thought.
I do sometimes get concerned about...
Because I was definitely affected by being told it was the truth.
You know, being told that, you know...
Yeah, I was always like, how do you know?
And also, I don't know.
I feel like I quite... Maybe that's why I was never so hot.
In Christianity, because I kind of questioned things, but kept things to myself.
Like, I was like, who created God?
He just was.
That answer pissed me off.
Yeah, because it doesn't make sense.
Like, what do you mean?
Yeah, so when someone says to me, who created everything?
And they say, God, and I say, who created God?
You know, although, if I said they said, where did God from God,
you always was. I said, why do you have to say that?
Why don't we just say the universe always was?
It makes no sense. Cut out the middleman.
The universe always was.
Well, it makes no sense.
It makes no sense for God to just exist as well.
You're just begging the question.
You just...
Yeah, that answer would always really annoy me.
And also, why I never... I don't know.
You've got to have faith.
Yeah, I mean, yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
And I got a Bible scripture on the arm.
Yeah. Fun times.
I don't regret them. They're still good.
Would you... Will you talk to your children about the Bible?
Like, just yourself.
So, like reading them bedtime stories and stuff.
Will you tell them about the Bible?
Like, read them the Bible as a bedtime story.
Yeah. Or tell them about it, yeah.
Um, I wouldn't read it to them as a bedtime story.
I'd probably pick, like, Winnie the Pooh or something.
Well, I guess the point is, would you be against...
Like, the idea, I guess, is...
I think what the person is saying is,
are there values in the Bible that you want to pass on to your children, I guess?
That's such... That's an interesting question, because, I don't know,
the values that I think in the Bible, are they not normal values?
Like, what other people would have?
Like, honesty.
Slavery.
Burning homosexuals to death.
No, there are a few things.
But, I mean, like, honestly, and not stealing and, like, being kind to your neighbor.
Like, being kind to others and stuff like that.
Like, I agree with those things, and I'd definitely 100% pass them on.
But I can't pick, like, the story in my head from the Bible and then read it to them.
But I'm sure you'd feel the same.
Like, if you've read a really interesting story and...
Like, if you read my favorite story in the Dhammapada about Buddha and his child,
Kisukutami in the link to the video.
But, you know, Kisukutami had that child, and she bring it to the Buddha and said,
help bring my child back to life.
And he said, yes, but you must go to a house that has...
And get me a must-see from this house, but it has to be from somewhere where no one's died.
And she goes around, she doesn't find a house where no one's died,
and she realizes what the Buddha is teaching, and that death is inevitable.
And as a result, she could deal with a grief, and she buried her child and came back and said,
and the Buddha said, where is your child?
And he said, he said, where is your child?
And she said, enough of my child, let me be your disciple,
because she realized he was teaching a really important message.
That's a really beautiful story that I love from Buddhism.
I'm not a Buddhist, though.
So, what I'm kind of getting at is...
I mean, I think, like, Noah's Ark is cute.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Like, putting in pairs of animals on an Ark and going sailing for a little bit.
So, I think would you say...
I think I'm trying to fill it in a little bit for you.
So, would you say that you would teach biblical stories to your children,
but it's not like exclusively.
Like, you'd also teach other religions if it was fun to you or interesting or...
To be fair, I'm not educated on other religions.
Oh, I just told you that because you could tell me.
So, you would be doing that part.
And I don't know how to...
I mean, yeah, if they came back from, like,
kids' church because they went with my parents or something
and were telling me about Noah's Ark or whatever,
then, yeah, I'd enter a conversation with them about that.
Like, this is why I can't have worked.
Koala's can't survive on...
Are you interested in my videos?
LinkedIn...
Sorry.
Stop it.
Sorry, I'm just being silly now.
Do you think teaching your children about God can be harmful?
So, about heaven, hell, demons is...
I put that stuff in quotations because I thought...
I don't know how to answer that.
Why?
Because I feel like I do think it can be harmful,
but I can't think of an example.
Yeah.
For you.
Like, hell, I would say definitely.
Hell is different.
It can be, but it can be good, but it can be very harmful.
Hell is definitely scary, as.
Like, even Revelation, the rapture,
it used to be hell freaked out about the rapture.
That would literally keep me up at night.
Yeah.
So, would you consider that harmful?
Yeah, probably, but then...
It's like, is it like the same harmful,
as like watching a horror movie and it's scaring you?
Yeah, well, I would say some horror movies can be harmful.
Yeah, I would say, like, I think...
I'm interjecting again, but essentially,
I'm on the path that I think that,
yeah, it can be harmful.
Like, a lot of good things can come from it as well.
But, and it's really interesting.
But, yeah, of course, it can be harmful.
That's what needs to be put in the correct context.
Yeah.
Interesting question.
Do you have any hang-ups about your kids learning sexual education?
Like, do I have something that I don't want them...
Like, say if the school wanted to teach about transgenderism,
LGBT issues, oral sex, anal sex, vaginal sex,
how do you use a condom?
Would you be okay with that at almost any age
that they see it as appropriate?
Any age...
Yeah.
Oh.
Yeah, I think it'd be fine with it.
I feel like I, like, I feel like I...
Like, mum was really good at explaining,
like, our skills going through puberty and stuff,
but not necessarily about sexual stuff and identity.
And what are you doing in the bedroom and stuff like that.
I've always loved, just to start now,
I've always loved how your mum can be really real like that.
I just love that about your mum.
Yeah, like, she showed us, she showed us, like, books and pictures and stuff of,
like, our reproductive parts and how that works every month and stuff.
So, she did really well in that.
But when it came to sexual stuff, I wasn't very...
I wasn't very educated at all.
I only, well, I don't know.
I only really knew of one specific way to have sex.
I educated you on that.
What are you on?
That was very creepy.
I knew that there was other stuff to do
and kind of, like, figured some stuff out by myself.
But it makes...
It's, I don't know.
I wish I hadn't known that stuff earlier.
You wish you had known?
Yeah.
Yeah.
But, like, from the right context,
like, you're not going to start showing five-year-olds pornos or anything.
No, no, no, no.
Yeah.
A bit more of a fun question.
What's your favourite memory of us since getting together?
That's, like, 10 years.
I can't say mine because it's too explicit.
No, I'm kidding.
Oh, my God.
And you can't choose our wedding.
That's really hard.
Maybe...
Can I have a couple?
Yeah, you can have a couple.
When we first moved in together.
Oh, yeah.
That was great.
That was a huge step for us.
And we did that as we got married.
Yeah, we didn't live together before we were married.
Good Christians.
I'd never lived with anybody else before I was married.
So getting married and moving into our little unit together was really special
and, like, setting up a wedding.
Getting a new unit together was really special and, like, setting up house was really, yeah.
Oh, we got the first unit we applied for too, which was amazing.
Yeah, that was awesome.
And our neighbours were great.
And, yeah, I don't know, it was like the perfect...
I don't know.
It was the perfect compromise for us in regards to houses.
Like, I wanted something a little bit modern and you didn't really care.
You, like, yeah, just wanted like a good price or a good area and stuff.
Yeah, I think that was really special.
It was really sad when we left that unit.
Yeah, I love that unit.
Yeah.
I don't know.
When we built this house and coming down, like, every weekend or every couple of weekends to
see the progress of the house, that was really special for me because I never thought that you
would build a house because you were so against building a house.
Yeah, I was an idiot.
So that was really, that was really special for me.
And then probably when we got butters.
Oh, yeah, that was good.
As well.
Like, going down, meeting him when he was, like, what, eight weeks old or something.
And picking him and then getting videos.
I don't know.
I have so many and then like traveling together.
I don't know.
I have so many traveling was just amazing.
Like that shaped us as people, I think, especially experiencing different cultures and stuff.
Yeah.
I mean, we found butters while we're traveling.
Yeah, that's true.
Like, we're in Slovakia.
Poland.
Oh, no, Prague.
We connected to the Wi-Fi because we're in Prague.
I thought we were in that place where the fridge didn't work and we had to put our
Coke outside.
Well, we might have, but we ended up messaging them when we're in Prague after that
because we were doing three days there and three days in Slovakia as a Prague.
Yeah, okay.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know.
It's been heaps.
All right.
If you can impart one message to your future children, what would it be?
Let's say, yeah, one message.
You can teach them one value.
Be kind.
People are so, people and kids can be so cruel.
Yeah, like, you don't know, you don't know what they're going through.
You don't know what their home situation is like.
People mask stuff really well.
Like, you can find out that someone's really depressed, but at work, they're like the
happiest person ever.
Like, people are really good at masking stuff.
So, yeah, just be kind.
I think that I was actually on the fence about it, about that.
Be kind was going to be one of mine.
But because you chose adultery or something else,
so a child could be like super, super sane, be honest.
I think that's a huge thing that people don't do.
Be honest with yourself.
Be honest with everyone.
Just say things exactly how they are.
You can soften things, but you need to be honest with yourself about life.
But even like, self-care, be kind.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And but also be honest.
Are you dealing with this okay?
If you're not, go see someone.
Go see a psychologist.
Go see.
The honesty is not just about telling lies or telling.
It's about going like, how do I not try not tricking yourself, not deceiving yourself.
Even the Bible says, the heart is wicked.
Who can understand it?
No one can understand the heart.
No, he can't.
Jeremiah, I think I'm not going to quote, but somewhere in Jeremiah says,
the heart is wicked.
No one who can understand it.
I mean, I've actually had a Christian apologist say to me,
he worries about the Christian, the type of Christianity that
believe in like the presence of the Holy Spirit guiding them.
He worries about them.
Why?
Because he says, the Bible says clearly that the heart is wicked.
Who can understand it?
And wicked and deceptive, who can understand it?
And he says that you've got two scenarios.
One, God's going to tell you something that lines up with the Bible
in prophecy, which in that, in which case, why do you need the prophecy?
Just read the Bible.
Or secondly, it doesn't line up with the Bible.
So therefore it's not because there's prophecies in the Bible.
And then there's prophecies about yourself.
Yeah, I mean, yeah.
And when they don't come to come to come to the window,
they always might.
Unless you got in the way.
Yeah.
What's that?
It's all saying, like, when you pray to God, you'll either get a yes, a no, or a wait.
So yes, here's your prayer answered.
No, I always got wait.
Yeah, or wait.
Kiss me off.
Yeah.
And which is coincidentally the same thing you would get if you pray to a potato.
Yes, no, wait, there's no way for it to fail.
Anyway, or a jug of milk, a magical jug of milk.
Someone on my discord, please make an emoji or a gift of a jug of milk.
I'll use it.
How do you feel?
How did you feel when I first started questioning my faith?
So when I came to you and said, Hey, I want to look into things.
I want to be a good father, a parent, I want to examine everything.
I wasn't this first investigating my faith was I was just investigating the idea of creation
and evolution.
Yeah.
But how did you feel about that?
The creation and evolution thing.
I was fine with.
I didn't care.
The like Christianity part.
I was also fine with, but I was a little bit concerned about what if
I just had what ifs going through my mind.
So like when we have children, what if you didn't believe, but I still did.
And would that become an issue if I wanted to take the kids to church
and you didn't necessarily agree with it?
Would that become an issue?
Yeah, that was really.
That was my same fears as well, to be honest.
Like what if we just went on the same page, but it was it was always about,
and I think that's why I came to you.
I said, I don't need you to believe the same things as me.
But but I wish was helpful.
Yeah.
I'd love for you to just be open to hearing what I have to say.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Not that I would.
Yeah.
Okay, cool.
Yeah, fine.
Go ahead.
Did your parents ever talk negatively about other teenagers in their church and their sin?
And if so, does this affect the amount of information that you disclose to them about your life?
Oh, interesting.
Yes.
That's great.
Yes, definitely.
There would be stories about,
maybe not necessarily teenagers, but like young adults
going out and drinking and having a wild night on Saturday and then turning up on Sunday to church
and leading worship for the rest of the congregation that was very much found upon.
I used to hate that as well.
People would be stepped down from the band because of it.
Yeah, I kind of, I think there should be.
But if you believe something, believe it.
Don't just like, do you know what I mean?
But I mean like moderation.
Yeah, well, no, I agree.
Well, I don't think people should be worshiping like doing that anyway.
Like, but if you're going to do it, at least be consistent.
As in get drunk like every Saturday?
No, as in like, if you believe that, if you're telling people about getting drunk as a sin
and that you shouldn't be doing it, don't do it yourself.
Like don't go out and like party and like have a great time and then tell everyone else.
Like there was a pastor that got caught.
But they weren't.
They weren't though.
No, but they were leading worship in a church that did teach that stuff.
Like there was, there was a pastor that was taught.
Like he would, he would preach against homosexuality all the time in his congregation and eventually
the prostitute, the gay prostitute that he would, the dude that he was sleeping with
came out and said that every Saturday night we meet up to have gay sex and have meth together.
And he was like this, this like, you know, it's like, look buddy, if you're, if you're gay or
you're like sleeping with a dude behind your wife's back and doing meth, don't be preaching
about drug use and homosexuality.
Like be consistent.
You piece of crap.
Like.
Yeah, but yes.
But the people up on stage leading worship, they weren't necessarily preaching to people,
telling them not to do things.
They were helping open the spiritual gates.
Maybe I'm just still, maybe I've still got hang ups about it.
So yes, they would talk bad about that.
And so, I don't know, drinking, drinking is an interesting one because I remember my mom
when I was, I was young.
It was like, it was right before my first boyfriend.
So I would have been 12, would have been 12 and she got me to have a couple of drinks
at home supervised just to see how it felt and to do it in a safe environment.
Did he dad know this?
I don't know.
I don't know if he knew or not.
I don't think he was home.
Okay.
I don't remember him being home.
Oh, I was like, going with that.
So like mom, mom was fine with drinking and stuff, but I've always felt a bit weird about
drinking around my dad or like, I don't know, even if he was drunk.
Around my dad or like, I don't know, even told me that I was bad influence on
one of my sisters because she got drunk and you went over and I was a bad influence somehow.
From the perspective of a child or teenager in the church,
do you think that the church fixated on a particular theme that seemed unnecessary?
Well, the whole dressing not to entice men is a good one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The you 13 year old girls were really making some men stumble.
Yeah.
That's what that's really all I can remember.
Creepy, right?
Yeah.
That was like, that was definitely the major, major thing when you were growing up in church.
Yeah.
Being judged for what you wear and how you present yourself.
In your opinion, was there enough education and clear lines around sex and morality in the church?
No.
Okay.
Interesting.
Well, it wasn't really spoken about that much other than to not tempt guys.
That was your responsibility.
Don't tempt guys and that you have sex when you're married.
There's no, I don't know, there's no talk really beyond
that that I can remember.
Okay.
What are the core values that you would like to teach your children if possible list three?
So you said kindness before?
Kindness, definitely.
Yeah.
Um, yeah, all for honesty.
Oh, what list what?
Three core values.
Oh, core values.
I know they're like, I have something else in mind, but it's not a core value.
What is it?
It's like about money.
Oh, good stewardship of finances.
Like, yeah, like that was a huge issue with my family and still is.
And it's really crippled things for them.
Yeah.
So I definitely want to educate my children in that.
Yeah.
So having a healthy, healthy response, healthy.
Um, maybe you could say like a healthy relationship with materialism, like buying things,
what's important, that kind of stuff.
Like, yeah, I suppose, yeah, I suppose so.
Do any religious teachings that you were brought up with shape your life today?
Sorry, say it again.
Do any religious teachings that you were brought up with still shape your life today?
That you can think of?
Love thy neighbour.
Okay, that's a good one.
Probably.
Yeah.
Um, yeah, I don't know, just being aware of other people and what they're going through.
Yeah.
Because again, you don't, you don't know, you have no idea.
You're a lovely person.
Well, people, like I said before, people put on a front.
Yeah, no, they do.
Because they don't want to, they don't want to show it.
And then like, yeah.
Yeah.
It could be like the last couple of days for them.
You have no idea.
Hey, Edling Dave here.
So unfortunately, at this moment in time, the high quality audio seemed to break.
However, if you'd like to continue listening to the Q&A over phone quality audio,
you can do so on my Discord.
Thanks for watching, everyone, and I'll see you next time.
