Hey, that took longer than usual to start, so if you saw me just staring at the screen
for a while, I apologize.
Welcome everyone to DeepRing's podcast.
Our guest today is a prolific Neil Bernstein, better known as Neil, a 604 atheist, known
for his insightful conversations about personal journey away from faith-based beliefs.
He does this on his YouTube channel of the same name.
Neil has become a significant and recognizable voice within the online 80s community and
it's an honor to have him here on Deep Drinks.
Hey, welcome Neil to Deep Drinks podcast.
Hey, thanks for having me.
I'm not sure about insightful, but definitely insightful.
So all your links are in the description if people want to check them out, as well as
I've put a link to your music in the chat.
So your music is, I'm a fan of your music.
I have to say though, I haven't listened to a whole lot of it.
I've just heard your intro music and you dropped a bombshell on me when I was on your show.
You know, I think it was over a year ago now.
Oh yeah, that's my music and I was like, what?
I thought it was like, it sounded to me a little bit like System of a Down or something.
Like, I don't know.
I really like it.
It's some heavy metal there, right?
Yeah, it's some hard to read stuff.
Well, most of our stuff has got edge to it, but we do some acoustic stuff and whatnot
too.
Oh, that's cool.
Some Spanish guitar sounding stuff.
Are you pretty active with the music at the moment?
Oh, yeah, we jam every Friday night.
We got a lot of new tunes that we got to get recorded.
So that's also that's also our original guitar player passed away.
So we got the new guy and I'm sorry like that, right?
So yeah, I didn't know that brain aneurysm.
And then he had another one while they were operating on it.
So yeah. Oh, geez.
That's rough.
Oh, I'm really sorry to hear that.
That's rough.
Well, the link to your music is in the chat here and I brought up on the stream, but
it's a SoundCloud link and everyone can go check that out.
Support the band as they find their groove, the new guitarist.
So what are we drinking today, Neil?
Well, I'll drink.
See, I am currently because I had a blood clot almost a couple of years
ago now I am currently on anticoagulants.
So can't actually drink.
So so I've got the good old H2O or yeah.
Oh, yeah, maybe H2O hydrogen monoxide.
That's so good.
There's, you know, it's, you know, it's actually refreshing to not be drunk
in the middle of the day.
So, you know, and from from last week's episode with Matthew Monger.
Well, if I needed it, we drank a lot of that episode.
So you could tell as the show went on.
It's so bad.
It was so bad.
But yeah, yeah, that was that was good.
So thank you for choosing a hydrating drink.
So so my first question is you've
de-converted more than once more or less, I guess you could say that.
Yeah, tell us about that.
What story can be from and to and pretty unique, man.
Well, let's go back to the very beginning.
Yeah, there was this big explosion.
I'm just kidding.
I was I was I was adopted as a kid, like as a baby.
I was 10 days old when I was brought home on Halloween.
Or I think it was 10 or 11 days old, whatever.
So I was born in October 20th, 1966.
Yes, I'm a Gen Xer to a Catholic couple.
Who were not married and in the 60s, it was pretty taboo.
Well, according to some people, it's still taboo.
But so they weren't married and they put me out for adoption.
I was adopted by a Jewish couple.
My my mom was wasn't able to have kids.
So they needed to adopt.
So they adopted me.
And then a year later, they adopted my sister who was also born to Christians, by the way.
So I grew up in the Jewish faith, for the most part.
And, you know, growing up, always hearing we did.
We did something called Hebrew school, right?
And so I would go to Hebrew school to learn about the Bible, the Hebrew Bible
and about Jewish history and stuff about Israel and stuff like that.
And I always had questions like some of these stories
to come through the some of the traditional biblical stories
and stuff like like Samson and Delilah and David and Goliath and stuff like that.
And I always had questions like this, you know, even the flood.
I'm like, how can this possibly be, right?
Like, how could they they say that this is true?
And I spent a lot of time in the hallway
because they couldn't answer my questions and I wouldn't shut up about it.
Yeah. And, you know, I did the whole bar mitzvah thing and everything
and read out of the Torah and I think one of the funny parts is
my voice was changing at that time, because when you're 13,
that's pretty much when your voice starts changing.
And a lot of crackling was going on in the voice and the audience thought
that was great and they're laughing and so was I.
It was a lot of fun, but I just never really had a, you know,
I would speak to God to like ask, you know, can you make sure my friend
doesn't get in trouble because we skip school or whatever, you know,
stuff like that, right? And I asked stupid questions like prayer, I guess you could say.
And of course, nothing ever happened, obviously.
But yeah, and I just, I never really held, I guess, a firm, firm belief.
I thought, well, I guess it's possible and I'll just go along with it
because it's what everyone else seems to be fucking doing around here.
So I just never really held that strong of a belief
that there actually was a God or any gods of any kind, really.
By the time I went to Israel, when I was in my, you know,
a few years after my bar mitzvah, I did grade 11 and 12 over there.
So I noticed that a lot of the Israelites, Jews were quite secular, you could say.
So many of them didn't really have a belief in a God, but they, like me,
we're just going along, you know, the holidays and the traditional stuff.
And then I think probably
somewhere in my 20s, I started delving into other belief systems.
So I called myself a druid for a while.
I called myself a wiccan for a while.
I called myself many things about the pagan stuff
because that stuff was so fascinating to me because it was very different from what I was used to.
I mean, there was still, you know, I dipped into the Kabbalah a little bit before,
you know, actually during these times because the Kabbalah is like Jewish mysticism, right?
So I thought there's all the mysticism and stuff like that.
Buddhism and, you know, and all kinds of things.
And I kind of incorporated things from these belief systems that I liked
and adhered them to my day to day, I guess you could say.
But I was probably the wiccan the longest and I had tried to do spells and stuff.
And of course, nothing really ever happened with that shit, but we were one in particular.
I thought, you know, I was out of a job at the time.
I didn't have a job at the time.
So I was kind of need some cash and I tried one where you get a ceramic bowl
and you put a silver dollar, which I had and you put it in there
and then you fill it halfway up with water and you go outside on a full moon
and you catch the the image of the full moon and the water over top of the coin
and you do some chant.
I can't remember the fucking chant.
I just read where my rings, I feel naked.
And and, you know, I guess you can say it worked because like two days later,
I sold my VCR this back when VCRs were a thing.
Well, I sold it for like 70 bucks or something like that.
So I had some money there and I go, wow, look, magic is real.
And I didn't actually say that.
The only reason I sold the damn thing is because I put an ad in the newspaper.
So obviously, that's why I think fucking so.
But yeah, and I tried other other things and nothing really ever worked.
So I would want to say that sometimes in my late 30s, I kind of got out of that.
Delved more into the Buddhism kind of thing and I didn't call myself a Buddhist,
but I definitely lived by some of the credo and stuff like that.
And I still kind of had this belief because, you know, they have the whole Chi
thing or and all that like life energy and all that shit.
And I believe that there was something like that.
And until, of course, you know, you go back to I went back to school
and and learned a little bit about some chemistry stuff and stuff like that.
And there's really no no evidence for that kind of thing.
So I don't know.
I think like I got back to school because of the job that I got back then
that I've been doing now for almost 16 years.
I work for an environmental company in the lab there where I test
a bunch of things like waste oil and and antifreeze because I run the antifreeze
department as well, making we recycle it there.
We bring in the waste and turn it back into usable antifreeze.
So I have to test all that as well for the Canadian standards of
or the codes and stuff like that.
So I spend a lot of time in a lab and doing chemistry type things.
Other things, too, like gas chromatography or eye cap,
which is kind of like mass spec, where you get to see the heavy metals.
And one thing I always thought was pretty cool about that is it shows up
on a little spectrum.
You look through the little window and you'll see the lights.
And each element has its own place on the spectrum.
So you can tell what it is by where it lands on the color spectrum.
So you can say, oh, there's some vanadium.
There's some boron or whatever, like there's all kinds of shit in there.
Silicon, whatever, stuff like that pops up.
You can tell what it is by where it sits there and how much of it
is be the intensity of the of the image.
So it's pretty cool.
I like doing it, definitely for sure.
It's interesting.
And chemistry is one of the reasons why I finally gave up all of that kind of crap.
So just don't be just skeptical as fuck now about everything.
So when back when you were a young Jewish lad,
did you do you have to like memorize the full Torah?
Not the whole thing.
I just had to what they call it is a half Torah, which is a means Torah portion.
So OK, I like you get they choose one for you to read,
because that's the whole whole idea behind having a Bar Mitzvah is you become
a man at 13. I'm a man. Right.
Any so. So and you have one of that Seinfeld episode where
do you have you seen Seinfeld? You know Seinfeld?
Yeah, I know Seinfeld. Yeah. Yeah, that's the way the show.
Oh, OK, there's an episode where the young young young guy has a Bar Mitzvah
and then he kisses Elaine and he's like, oh, man.
And he's like tries to data and stuff.
And he's like, oh, man, then he's like, and then she says no.
He's like, my religions are scared.
They're all scared.
So why do you think you do you think have you thought about
why maybe you went from like belief system to belief system to belief system?
Like a lot of people do.
But do you think that there's like something?
Do you have a God shaped hole in your heart?
Is what I'm asking, you know, like, no.
Because even though, you know, getting involved in a lot of the paganistic
type beliefs, like whatever, I did some Norstof Celtic stuff, you name it.
I didn't really believe that these entities were real.
And I never.
Once really thought of any of them as being real.
Because once you give up the belief in even one God, it's kind of hard
to think that the rest of them are real.
But I'll be honest with you, the reason I got into the whole Wicca thing
was because I met a girl and she was Wiccan and she was telling me all
about the whole sex magic thing.
And I was like, you know, he raised a pyramid cone of sexual energy.
I'm like, all right, I'm in.
So, you know, as a young adult, I thought that that was pretty cool.
I could do some sex magic and stuff like that.
I don't want to.
So that's all the matters. No, I don't.
So, so.
Well, so that's what was some of the but the pagan and like in Celtic
things that you did, like how was it more for you?
Like a like ritual was like with the ritual part of it important?
Like, or was it just kind of you're going along with the flow?
Or was it, you know, like what part of it intrigued you, I guess,
if you didn't fully believe in the gods?
Oh, you know, I think it's with anything that's in sort of I categorize
all this stuff, by the way, in like New Agey sort of thing.
And I think a lot of it sounds really cool.
Like you could, you know, you do this and you do this and you can get this.
And it's like, and they make it sound really scientific, even though it's not.
But when you want to sort of, I guess people,
well, I can't say I wanted to believe in something.
I just stuffed it, sounded cool.
I could follow along with, right?
So and they made it sound so real.
And it was so neat and the people were cool and still are.
But I just thought, you know, this is something more to my level.
Like I like the cool stuff.
Well, I thought the crystals could heal you, right?
Like stuff like that, which is a big part of all that stuff.
And yeah, the rituals are fun.
And I did quite a few, you know, joined a few groups of people
that did those sorts of things and we'd do all kinds of neat things.
Um, but for whatever reason, I've got a frog in my throat.
But yeah, I think it was just really interesting to me.
And the culture of it was interesting to me and the history of it was interesting to me.
It still is.
It's just I don't buy into it anymore as much, at least as much as I did.
Anyways, right?
So, but I still find this stuff fascinating and just beliefs in general
kind of fascinate me too.
Like I always, that's why I guess I took, when I found Anthony Magnobosco on YouTube,
I was like, I like this guy.
He questions people about why they believe what they believe.
And that's always been of interest to me is why do people believe this stuff?
And when they do, um, finally realized that it's nothing
real, that they finally get free from those types of beliefs.
And that sort of a journey always interested me too,
which is why I do what I do on my channel.
So, um, just belief in general has always been really kind of interesting to me.
Why people.
Yeah.
So you've done, uh, just, I, um, just skipping forward a little bit.
Um, we'll go back and forth.
We'll go all over the place.
This is what we do in deep drinks.
Um, but the, um, sounds like my show.
Yeah.
So go.
Um, so you've interviewed almost 500 people.
Um, yeah.
Uh, and they did get deconversion stories.
Is it always deconverting towards atheism or is it, or are the people, some people
just move from one belief to another or is it, I know it's probably generally
atheists, but, um, but do you have anyone that's like, I was a Christian now,
I'm a Buddhist or I was a, um, Muslim now, I'm a Christian or something,
or is it mainly sure I've had people on many actually that went from some
form of Christianity to some form of paganistic beliefs.
Like I've had ocean keltoy on the show and, you know, he, he's a pagan, right?
And I've also had a leokai who's also a Hellenic, um, pagan as well.
So, uh, they're great folks.
And, um, I've, I've always said, and so have they, they said that there's so
many things, even though they have their beliefs still in whatever entity they
believe in, um, we still share a lot more commonalities than we would
would say the, the Abrahamic faiths.
Like we, we, they don't, they don't run around pushing, you know, nobody
runs around pushing Thor on you or Odin or, or Helen for that matter.
Like nobody runs around pushing these entities or deities on you, uh,
which is great that this more, most of the pagans that I ever knew, it was
down to a small group or solitary practitioner type stuff, right?
Like they built their little altars.
I had an altar.
Thanks to, right?
So mine, uh, actually, believe it or not, the deity that I chose, and it was
actually my internet name for a little while was Thoth, which is the Egyptian
God of, uh, he was the, the script right.
He wrote all the history of the Egyptian gods down and he was also the God of
magic, so to speak.
So that was sort of mine, my, my, my old deal at the time.
So how does that work?
Like, how does that work?
How do you choose, how do you choose like, wait, so, because I've had someone
on before that mentioned that I said, oh, you know, what, what God, you know,
what God, did you believe in?
They go, well, I believe in all of them.
I just choose to worship, you know, certain ones.
Like, yeah.
So is that how it works?
Like, so would you believe in Yahweh and believe in Thor and Zeus, but you just
chose the one that you followed?
Is that how it works?
I think, well, for me, it was, I found Thoth to be the most interesting of all
the Egyptian panel of deities.
Um, uh, it just appealed to me the most, I guess, just because it seemed to
fit who I was at the time, right?
So, and I thought it'd be kind of cool to have sort of a, an altar built to honor.
I'd never really actually thought that Thoth was real, but, but, uh, just to
honor the whole idea behind the deity itself.
Yeah.
Right.
And so.
Yeah.
That, I mean, like I, I still, um, I really love religious symbolism.
I, you know, I have the, it's that way.
I have Shiva there, uh, picked it up in Bali, um, and he's, you know, it's,
it's, it's, it's, it's cool.
Like I, I, I, I'm attracted to that kind of stuff.
Um, um, Catholic, Catholic symbolism as well.
I've always, I've always said that, um, Catholics have the coolest outfits.
Um, you know, biggest tax.
Yeah.
Cool stuff.
You know, uh, I got a bigger hat though than Catholics though now.
So that's also my biggest.
I see so many board games back there.
That's so cool.
Um, board games, those aren't board games, my friend.
What are they?
Lego sets.
Oh, Lego sets.
Oh, cool, cool, cool.
Oh yeah.
That's just the tip of the iceberg.
I bet, I bet, uh, hundreds of sets that I haven't put together yet.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Yeah.
True.
Um, you should talk to me.
I mean, I'm sure you've talked to nitty before.
That's just, that's just a little bit of some of the big pile that's there.
And then there's more, if you look up here, you'll see a closet door.
There's way more in there too.
Oh, damn.
You collect them like I collect books.
Um, most of them I haven't read.
Um, I just have them get the new back cave soon, actually.
So, yeah.
So with, with, um, with, uh, like to, to most pagan groups kind of like get along
or like, are they kind of like, um, you worship this God, my God has
paid for that God.
I don't think I've heard anything like that go on, but I wouldn't say they
always do.
I would say most of them probably do.
Yeah.
Uh, like some of them have told me there's a, I guess an element of respect
for each other, but, um, some of them are quite vastly different, especially if
you get into more Eastern philosophies too, that, uh, kind of differ from the
usual paganism that we see, uh, from Europe, um, there's some clashing there.
But, uh, I've never really witnessed or come across any, you know, in fighting
between pagan groups and stuff like that.
It's, uh, they're just like any other humans.
There's going to be in, there's going to be some dustups, obviously, because we're
humans, even if there's two people left in the world only, you'll never actually
have peace because there's still two different opinions.
Yeah.
100% is, uh, do you have a perspective on atheists?
Like, uh, I know that a lot of Christians and Muslims like see
atheists as like baby eating monsters.
Did you have, um, did you have a similar like perspective of the, of
pagan communities?
Do they like, do they not like the atheists?
Some don't, some don't like atheists, but I find most of them have no issue.
Yeah.
As long as we're not attacking them about something stupid, then, uh, they don't
really have an issue.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Interesting.
Um, so how, what were, so like, how did you go from, um, you know, believing or,
well, I guess you could say you kind of believe, but like performing these rituals
and doing these things, um, to first questioning, like, what was the first
question that started to get you to, I guess, well, I guess this is hard because
you probably started questioning, um, Judaism and then you questioned, but like
how, what were the first things that got you to first start questioning the, um, I
guess Judaism?
I just, I couldn't believe what was written.
I could not believe.
I couldn't accept that what they had put in these books was legitimate.
So I was constantly questioning, like, especially the global flood, like what the
fuck, how did the slots from Antarctica or from South America get there?
Right.
Hmm.
How did the Banguins get there?
Why isn't there fossil evidence for these fucking things?
Even as a kid, I was thinking that sort of thing.
Because there would be, right?
There would be evidence, especially if the kangaroos had to go all the way back
down to Australia and then there'd be evidence somewhere that there was this
long journey of animals from all over the globe.
And I think one of the biggest questions that I had is, well, how come
for the Abrahamic God, Yahweh, El, whatever you want to call, uh, I don't know.
Anyway, I was like, well, how come he just revealed himself to a fucking group of
goat herders in the middle of a desert, in the middle of the fucking Middle East?
I mean, I get it.
That's pretty much the whole, that whole area there is like the birthplace of
civilization of humans.
Anyways, but, uh, like why, why just tell just them about who you are and skip Japan,
skip China, skip North America, skip South America,
skip Europe, you know, that didn't, you know, it didn't hit Europe till later.
So, uh, you know, like skip, skip, fuck everywhere else in the world.
Just, I'm just going to talk to these fucking people that are sitting in the
sand drinking tea and stuff like that and tell them all about it.
And hey, I'm your God and blah, blah, blah, and don't worship any other gods,
which was a clue right there before me that there were other gods.
And if you go far enough back, uh, some of the Canaanite Babylonian type
stuff that was around, uh, when Judaism was formed,
you just see that they basically took right from the
pantheon of deities of that day, uh, to create their own and made him the most
powerful one out of all of them.
So, um, yeah, there's an amazing image that always like really, um, let me if I
see if I can find it, but it's, um, it's, it's, um,
it's, uh, an image that, um, oh my gosh, um, this is so professional.
Um, it's like an image of, it's like an image of the whole world.
Welcome to my world.
Yeah.
And it shows, it shows a dot over the map of like the, um, like every thing that
the Abrahamic God did and it's like this tiny little dot and it's like,
why, why is it just there?
Why is every event, if this is a message for
humanity, why is every event, everything just recorded in this tiny little dot?
And we've lost most of the manuscripts.
We don't have them.
Like this just seems like such a, like it seems,
Well, it was oral tradition too.
Don't forget, right?
There were stories that were handed down generation to generation.
Can you say broken telephone?
Yeah.
It was like, you know, for something, in some cases, many hundreds of years,
um, broken telephone.
Well, if you take the, you know, the account of like when Genesis was written,
and then when Moses supposedly lived, and we know that Moses probably didn't live,
or at least he wasn't, he definitely wasn't.
Yeah.
So, um, so was it, so it was like, was it, it was the flood and things like that.
What about when you started moving on to like your pagan beliefs, what started,
did you just start to think that these don't make sense either?
Um, or like, I can't believe these either.
Or how do you start?
That's more, more, your second one there is like, I had, I was iffy about all that
shit anyways to begin with, but, you know, just trying to impress the ladies
at the time, I was got into all that stuff and I tried it out.
I thought, yeah, I don't really think this is going to do anything, but I'll play along.
And, um, yeah, I just, it just, it didn't last long.
I mean, I really only kind of dabble a little bit of this, a little bit of that,
and then just got my way out of it and just didn't believe in any deities and
didn't believe in any religion and kind of started to go down this
trip about thinking that religions can be quite harmful, right?
Cause there's the things that I've seen in my own life, uh, people that I knew that were in,
like I knew some Jehovah's Witnesses and I see the horrible shit that goes on there.
And I knew Mormons and I knew all kinds of, um, like even even Jewish people and stuff like that.
That's just like, it's horrific things like fucking circumcision and stuff like that.
Right? Like I thought this, this is like, these beliefs lead to harm a lot.
Same group of people who don't, uh, the same group of people who are crying about gender
affirming care being unreversible, uh, fine, usually with parts of someone's dick being cut off
permanently. Yeah. I didn't have a choice.
Well, it's, uh, most people think it's more aesthetically pleasing. So at least you got that.
That's what I've heard. But I've spoken to, to women before and they said,
they don't really really carry their way. Many of them don't really carry their way.
But, uh, many do say they prefer it that way. So I don't fucking know. I don't care.
This is the second time in like a week that I've talked about the aesthetics of a dick on deep
drinks. So, um, so this is the image that I was talking about before. So see, so that's the earth
and that's the dot. Every event in the Bible, everything, every single action by the Abrahamic
God took place within that circle. And you just look at it and go, hmm, why? Why?
Look at all that extra fucking space there that he could have gone everywhere.
He could have gone over to North America and told the First Nations peoples there. He could have
gone down to South America and told all the First Nations peoples down there. And he could
have told all the Aboriginals and he could have told all the South Africans and he could have
told all the Asians. But no, you know, none of them fucking heard about him.
The Aboriginal Australians have been here for like, um, 50 to 60,000 years and they
didn't notice a global flood three and a half thousand years ago, whenever it was supposed
to be. Or when the universe was being created. Exactly. Yeah, I mean, like we got cave paintings.
The oldest cave painting we have is like, geez, I don't know. I mean, it's 20, 30,
40,000 years like it's old. That's the devil, David. That's the devil doing that. Exactly.
Have you actually heard that from people that they'll say that like the devil plants?
Yeah, I've heard it. I've heard it to my face. Some people have said that. I'm like, right.
I don't think it's that clever.
You didn't even know bats weren't birds. So fuck you.
Yeah, could you explain that? Could you explain that?
No, bats are reptiles. Bats are mammals for fuck's sake, they're not birds.
Yeah, but it's in the Bible. People say like, so is there a passage in the Bible that says
that bats are birds? Yeah, I just don't know where it is. You can google it though.
I've read the Bible cover to cover and the Old Testament too and bits of the Qur'an,
but the Qur'an is really hard to deal with. It's the way it's written. It's just like, what the fuck?
But because you know, you got to know your energy translation. Yeah, but I mean,
it's just, I just, I couldn't.
So I just, I don't care anymore to read that shit, but I read it all and a lot of it's
just horrific. It's always been amusing to me that they just, even in synagogue,
like in, as we call it, shul, even in shul, they pick out all the good stuff. Although
Jewish tradition, you read the Torah from start to finish all the way throughout the year
and you start again on Yom Kippur or whatever, Rosh Hashanah or whatever. Yom Kippur is the
day of repentance, Rosh Hashanah is the head of the year, which is the new year. So you start again,
you have to read the whole entire thing all the way through till the following year, like the
books of Moses and stuff. And I always thought it was interesting. One of the questions I actually
asked my Hebrew school teacher back in the day was, how did Moses write about his own death?
And she was like, well, you know, they didn't give me an answer. I was like, okay, yeah, magic.
It's a miracle. I just, I don't, I never understood that. How could you write about your own death?
Like, was it, well, sort of a premonition? And he wrote it down.
Kent Hovind says that someone just finished off the last little bit. And that's still written
by Moses. So I'm just filled in the last little bit. Of course, he's a, he's a fucking tool.
There's, yeah, he body slammed that point. But yeah, so there's actually, so we're doing a,
I'm doing a series at the moment. And, and we're working on a, a kind of documentary-esque
featurettes on the history of Judaism. And I had interviewed Dr. Kip Davis. And one thing that
struck me was- Kip, Kip's from my neck of the woods. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I've, I've, yeah, I've
heard- I could, I could get to where he is in about an hour or not even. Oh, yeah, yeah. I keep
saying to Amy, we need to get over there and, and over to Canada and visit you guys and, and Kip and,
and Stacey, Apostasy and D and everyone like that. Go down to with Derek Lewis and stuff.
Yeah, I'll have a deep drink to meet up with something. I'd love to have a deep drink to meet
up somewhere. But, but, so one of the things that surprised me is I said to, and in this,
this, the raw interviews on Patreon, if anyone wants to check it out, but their full
documentary will be available for everyone. But the, I asked him, I said, you know,
can you give us the, the biblical perspective of Abraham and the Abrahamic covenant and,
you know, the story of Israel and Judaism from a biblical perspective and then contrast that with
the, the historical perspective, because I imagine that there might have been slight
differences or some, or some big differences. And he was just like, no, it's like, he's like,
he's like, honestly, there is the, like, there's the biblical, biblical story. And then we have
almost nothing that like, kind of, we can't say anything about that, that group before the Babylonian
exile. Like it's like, it's like, just it, it's like, we can't find evidence for, you know, Dr.
Josh went into this, but we, we don't have any evidence for like the, the Exodus or the, or
Jericho or any of that stuff. Like it's just, it just doesn't exist. And I was, I was quite
surprised by that. Does that get taught at all? And like, you know, are you taught that these
things are like fact in Hebrew school or, or these, they believe it is. So yeah.
Right. What would they say to something like that? Do you think the school that scholarship
like points to?
They would say that, you know, this, this is part of our scripture. So, and it was, you know, these
are the words spoken by God to Moses, yadda yadda, or Abraham or whatever the fuck it was. I don't
even remember. So we have to take it as being real part of our history. And I was just like,
okay, I just, I just like never swallowed that pill. I just like, there's no way, no fucking way.
Interesting. So, do you remember when you, when you eventually became an atheist,
like you got rid of all beliefs and how did that happen?
Oh, well, you know, honestly, dude, I would have considered myself to be an atheist even
while I was doing the pagan stuff. Like I was an atheist pagan as the description sort of has been
revealed. It's, I've been calling myself an atheist for a long time, like long ago down the
atheist rabbit hole on YouTube, because most of my YouTube experiences is I play a children's card
game called Yu-Gi-Oh. So I had my own channel doing that stuff. And I would duel other other
YouTubers live and interview them at the same time, which is why I always won because I kept
throwing them with those hard questions and stuff. And I still dabble in that from time to time. I
go to the locals and the regionals and actually we have the very first, first ever YCS, which is
Yu-Gi-Oh Championship series here in Vancouver coming up in September. So I'm going to go and
show my face there and people are going, holy shit, you're still alive. So yeah, because I haven't
done anything with that channel in probably three years. More than that. I have to digress quickly
and just tell you a Yu-Gi-Oh story that I have. So everyone knows that card game players or
Warhammer 40k players, like nerds essentially, like, oh, and that was one of them. They don't have the
best hygiene reputation sometimes. And I remember going to a local card house to play Yu-Gi-Oh
and the smell of them, my God. There were signs for people to put on their deodorant and stuff.
But I still remember sitting down next to this dude, like sitting on the cross from this guy.
I lost to everyone that day, except for a 12 year old. And then someone explained to us that we both
didn't understand the rules properly. And so he should have won. But I, you know, so, but...
Cheat bastard, David. Cheat. Yeah. So I'm there and I'm playing this guy. And his guy sits down
and he smells so bad that I'm covering my nose like this while I'm playing. Like I'm trying to
politely cover my nose. And he's got this, like, he probably was a size, maybe medium,
maybe a large, but he had like a 6 XL t-shirt on that was a faded Yu-Gi-Oh World Championships,
like crackled t-shirt. He had a Hogwarts hat on, right? And he was playing another game on his phone.
While, like, he was playing another game on his phone while he was kicking my ass. So, like,
I would put down one card and then he'd flip one card over and then he'd be like, bang, bang,
like, it was like this, and then this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this has happened
to him in like two, two things. I just lost. And I was like, what? And he was, he was totally just
wiping me. And I was just like, this is, he wasn't, like, he literally wasn't even looking at me.
He was just on his phone playing another game. And I was just like, wow, that's impressive. But I
was kind of good because I was, again, trying to get out of there because of the smell. Do you
have any Yu-Gi-Oh stories from real life? Oh, buddy, I've been to a few YCSs or local regionals and
stuff like that, where a lot of them get together in one room. And yeah, I go in and I play my
round or whatever, then I get the fuck out of there, go outside and where you can breathe again.
Yeah, it's, it's, it's fairly common. It's like these kids just don't shower. I don't know what
the hell's going on. It's like, if, if no one's experienced it, like you really like, I, I don't
know how to, I don't know how to describe it. Like it's, it's, it really is something else. It's
something, it's something special. Yeah. You don't get the same thing at like Magic the Gathering
type tournaments. At least those people shower. Yeah, right. Okay. So it's like, it's like,
there's different groups. It's only like Pokemon and Yu-Gi-Oh, you get the, you get the smelly kids.
When I was, when I was, when I was in film school, I was in a film school. Yeah, yeah,
yeah. Did you go to film school? Yeah, Vancouver film school. Oh, that's cool. Did you complete,
I didn't complete mine, but did you complete? I did. I completed the courses that I took,
which was for low budget filmmaking. I wanted to make zombie movies. Oh, that's awesome. I became
a hack chemist instead. Oh, that's awesome. I do want to get into your chemistry, but when, when I
was in film school, I remember, you know, there was, there was the game, there was those game
developers. There was music people. It was audio engineering students and there was film students.
And you could just tap, like you walk into a room and you see groups of people. The audio students
were like the coolest looking motherfuckers you've ever seen. They're like, you know, either wearing
like stylish jeans or like had a fucking cool vest and shit. Like they're just, they're just like
cool. They look like metalheads or rappers or like, you know, they just look, they just look cool.
Then they were like the games, game kids, and they were always like bad posture, hunched over,
like shirts or two, be like, no fashion, deads on their head from the head. That's actually happening,
by the way, but it's actually happening. They had a bunch of gamers who wear the headphones like
this all the time, shave their heads and all of them have little divots in their heads. Oh, no.
And the film, the film students were like somewhere in the middle, like you had your
fashionable students and you had your like students that, you know, where it was just so you could
pick the group, you could go like, you're a film student, you're a film student, you're an audio
engineer, you're, you know, and it's so classic. But yeah, so did your chemistry play a role in,
I guess, your, the way you view the world, like learning about science, learning about things
like that. Do you learn anything about radiometric dating? No, not so much. I've already know a
little bit about radiometric dating and the various other dating methods as well. I know a
little bit about how they work, of course, but I don't have a degree in chemistry, so let's not get
too carried away here. I was very, very good at chemistry all throughout high school, and I took
a little post high school chemistry courses, like a chemistry 101, organic chemistry, actually.
And when I got the job where I work now, my boss, who actually was my camp counselor when I was a
kid, he pulled me aside and said, you have some little bit of chemistry background. I go, yeah,
I wouldn't call me a chemist, but yeah, I do. He goes, well, we can put you through some more
schooling to get you to learn a little bit more, a little deeper into what we're doing here,
because we need to be testing all our waste oil for stuff like PCB contamination, which is
the name to escape me. Anyways, the drug, PCP? No, PCB. Oh, okay. I was like, damn. Which is,
it's cancer causing, right? And it usually shows up in transformer oil,
like, you know, the stuff that Optimus Prime and Bumblebee leave behind. No, I'm kidding.
Yeah, yeah. It usually shows up in transformer oil, and it can show up in specific electric oil,
electronic oils, like oils that they use for electronics. And that's cancer causing. So,
oh, polycarbon biphenyls, by the way, is what PCB are. And you have to run it through gas
chromatography. And specifically, it's argon helium gas, or the gases, and they use what they
call an arachlor, which is like a, it is, it is PCBs. And you preload the machine with the PCB,
so you're looking for a specific fingerprint on the graph, the chart comes out. And you have to
run a test of the oil to make sure that it doesn't match those peaks and valleys.
All right. And it'll tell you the peaks and valleys will tell you which specific PCB you've
got in there. And so I run tests on the waste oil when the other guy isn't around. I don't do as much
of that now that I used to do. Mostly now what I do is I run our antifreeze, because we collect
waste from all the garages and stuff like that around. And we put it through high heat distillation,
so it gets blasted and all the shit gets burnt off, literally evaporated. And all the ethylene
glycol gets recaptured from that and sent to a tank, and then they add distilled water to it to
blend it to the 5050, although our blends are 53% ethylene glycol and 47% water. So
which is better, it can keep your shit from freezing up to about minus 40, I guess. So
not that it ever gets to be minus 40 where I live, let's be honest. I live in literally Hollywood
North, that's what Vancouver's known for. Not these days though with the strike going on,
and I stand with the actors and the writers, by the way.
So that's basically what I do now is, and then I have lackeys that I make fill up all the totes
and the drums and the pails and the jugs and stuff like that for sale. And we call it eco-freeze,
because it's basically we're keeping it out of the ecosystem and repurposing it for another
go around, which the company that makes virgin glycol and virgin antifreeze here in Canada
didn't believe we could do it, because it couldn't, it wasn't possible to do for many, many years,
they couldn't do it. But we have some great engineers where I work and they design this
entire system to do all this, and it works just great. Our stuff comes out, and it looks like
it's brand new, like it's brand new antifreeze. And I'm the guy that sits in the lab and tests it all
for pH levels. There's this little bit of a spectrum of pH where this stuff can sit,
where it's considered safe. There's also reserve alkalinity. If you don't know what that means,
it reserves an alkaline level for a specific amount of time, and you can test that by slowly
dripping a, I think it's 1.8% mixture of hydrochloric acid into liquid, drip by drip,
it's a slow process, but it starts to bring down the pH. So you are trying to keep it as
alkaline as possible for as long as possible, but your engine, your engine does produce acidic type
stuff while it's running. So you've got to bring it down, and it'll drop it to a certain level.
Once it hits 5.5, no matter what kind it is, you record how much in the little beret, which is
where we put the hydrochloric acid, there's little lines like one, two, three, and usually it's around
1.4 to 3.4 in that range, depending on the type of antifreeze you're using. Except for universal,
which is the old green stuff, you can get right up to five on that sucker. And that means it takes
a lot longer for universal type antifreezes to lose their alkalinity. So the longer it takes,
the less amount it drops, the better it is at reserving its alkalinity. So that's how you do
that test. And then we do a foam break test, where you've got to heat it up to 81.3 degrees
Celsius, and then you put an air stone in there that must be pumping air out at approximately,
or as close to as possible, a liter a minute. So you're putting this air stone in there,
and it's making a bubble and bubble and bubble, and you leave it in there for like five minutes,
and watch the little foam level rise up, and wherever it rises up to, you record that level,
and then you pull out the plug, and you have a stopwatch, and you go click, and it takes
two seconds to, for all the foam to dissipate, then you're within the realms of goodness. So
you don't want it to go over 150 mils, and you don't want the time to be more than five seconds.
If it's within those, those specs, then you're, you got good stuff. And I, you know, so and,
you know, and I, they're also specific gravity, you have to fill up a container, and you have a
special, it's called a hydrometer, and you use that, and wherever it finishes bouncing up and
down in the stuff, and it'll have a, like, just like the beret, it'll have a little line there,
and okay, that one's in about 1.75, which is average for the, which is, means 1.75 gravity
as opposed to just water, right, so it'll tell you what. Is that the same thing we use for like,
like I used to brew beer, is that the same thing used for that?
If it was a hydrometer, yeah, looking for, yeah, that's the same thing, yeah.
Yeah, interesting, interesting.
It just looks like a giant,
like you put in your mouth when you have fever, what do they call those things?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I know what you mean, I have a thermometer,
yeah, but you put in a little bops, yeah, and it bops up and down, and it finally comes to a stop,
yeah, yeah, I, yeah, I had a couple of...
There's other tests too, but a lot of them are pretty complicated.
So, if you know a little bit about chemistry, maybe ready metric dating,
can you answer a question for me that I've had given to me a lot of times?
Maybe, maybe you can maybe give it a go.
I can try.
So, Ken Hoeven loves this point too, he says that, you know, take a rock, break it up,
it's at the three different labs and ask them to tell you how old the rock is,
and they'll tell you three different ages within millions of years.
More than likely, yeah.
Yeah, so why?
Well, there's multiple reasons to why that might happen, even though it all came from one source,
yours, you could, you might get two that read almost identical and one that's kind of a little
off, right, but it depends on the equipment that's being used, it depends on what part of the
rock it came from, because rocks don't stay one thing when they're formed, right?
They can melt again and reform.
And so, you get all, because, you know, plate tectonics happens, can't, you fucking moron.
So, a lot of times, like if you get a rock, it may have been parts of different rocks
that formed this new rock and a little bit off of this corner might be slightly older
than the little bit off on this corner, right?
So, they can't give you an exact date, no matter what type of radiometric dating or
carbon-14, well, carbon-14 you don't use on anything but organic material,
but yeah, they get really close, right?
And what I mean by that is like, we're talking time scales on, like, you know,
billions of years, if you're within a few thousand years or even 50,000 years,
that's still really fucking close.
And you can consider that to be, yeah, that's legit, right?
Like, okay, so this rock is, like the oldest rock they've ever found, they found here in Canada,
by the way, on the surface somewhere up near the Arctic, and it was 3.8 billion years old.
And they dated it, and they did that, they sent it to multiple labs, and they all came within a few
thousand years of each other, but they were all a little bit different.
But that's just how the people that are doing it, the equipment that's involved,
what part of the rock you were given, like, because some could be a little older than others,
it's just when it reforms, and it's up there, and next thing you know,
they're all coming within, you know, a few thousand years of each other, that's pretty
fucking amazing. That's pretty accurate. They're not going to be able to give you an answer like,
oh, that rock was formed 14, or 3.8 billion years ago, on October 13th, on 2 p.m.
Like, they can't give you that kind of accuracy, they can give you as close to that as possible.
I think, oh, Emma just said, Australia stole the trophy a year or two ago, 4.2 billion.
Canada versus Australia, eh? What the hell? I don't know about that.
Backcheck that. And I saw, Emma, that you shed out deep drinks in your stream, I really appreciate
that. Thank you. Someone said they came over here from your stream, I think it was, but thank you,
that's, I really appreciate that. So, I've heard that there's also the issue with,
like, depending on what radiometric dating you use, so like, if you use something that's only
good up to 40,000 years, and then you measure something that's a million years old, you're
going to get 40,000 years, because it only goes up to 40,000 years, or vice versa, I don't really know.
It's closer to 50. They can, they can, they can come for tea dating, you can get almost 50,000 years
that they can look at. Okay, so in 1999, the oldest known rock on earth was dated to 4.0,
sorry, I was wrong, 4.031, give or take, 0.003 billion years, and is part of the
casted, acastic niece of the slave cretin in northwestern Canada.
Are you reading from ARJ, or is this injustice? No, I googled it.
Oldest rock on earth. Fight news, I believe ember. The oldest dated rocks, according to Wikipedia.
Yeah, so, so I wanted to, so I wanted to, you know, we're almost at an hour here, I wanted to run,
run some God arguments by you, and just see what you think, because sometimes when you talk to
apologists, they will tell you that these things, for any honest interlocutor, these things are like
home runs, they're like, you know, you have to either accept them, or, or, you know,
or you're being dishonest. Maybe not all the time, but you know, they're a more plausible case than
I guess atheism, or naturalism, they'll say.
Yeah, so what do you think of like things like the classic arguments for God? So,
like the Kalam cosmological argument, or the Thiele logical argument, or Garbage.
So why, why do you, why do you think, why does William and Elaine Craig
say it's true, and why do you say it's not true?
You know, honestly, I don't even fucking remember. I've heard them, I kind of interchanged them all
in my head now, so like, well, all right, okay, ontological argument is, that's the first cause
one, isn't it? I can't fucking remember.
Hang on, let me just, because I don't know either. I just, I tune that shit out now.
Claims that God exists because if he did not exist, he would not be the most perfect being,
and if he was not the most perfect being, he would not be God. Yeah, that one's,
that one's really dumb. Yeah, it's fucking ridiculous.
So, like, well, if I was just to, if I was just to hit you with the classics, like, let's, I was to
play the, the devil's advocate, the apologist advocate. What would you say to someone who says,
like, where do we come from? Like, where did everything begin? Why, there has to be some
first move at some first cause. Okay, hold on, these are, first of all, I would explain to them
that you're talking about multiple different things. Where did I come from? Well, my folks had sex
in the backseat of a 57 Chevy and a sperm and an egg, the specific one, one, and here I am.
Okay, that's where I came from. And you could go right back through humanity and we all came
from the same similar situation. Where did humans come from? Well, they're a part of a
group of hominids that evolved over time. And I know they don't believe that, but
we have the evidence to demonstrate that. And, you know, they're, of course, they said, well,
what about the missing links and what about them? We haven't found them yet. Maybe we will,
maybe we won't, but we can trace genetically, we can trace ourselves back through all these
different lineages, including the Great Apes, right? Like, we can tell where we separated
from bonobos and chimps, we can tell where we separated off of the gorillas and the orangutans
and whatnot. It's like, we can trace this back through genetics. So, you know, I mean, you can
argue against it all you want, but the evidence that's sitting there going,
it's just going to come up and bitch slap you anyway. So it doesn't matter what you believe.
Right? So, where, how everything started? Well, there are multiple hypotheses that
people talk about. There's still scientists that believe we live in a static universe,
which is silly, but, you know, there's people, we don't even know if the Big Bang was the beginning
of everything. There may have already been things like other universes. We could live in a multiverse
and that Big Bang particularly started the one that we're familiar with,
or the one that at least we can, we can measure because we have the cosmic
microwave background. We know that something happened in order for the expansion of what we
now know as our universe, and we can only see some of it. We can't even see it all, right? And,
you know, you also get the questions, well, what is this expanding into? Well, itself is what it's
expanding into, basically. There's no other way to say it. It's basically space is becoming what
it is. It's just expanding into it and itself, basically. So, I mean, you kind of have this
picture in your head. Well, you picture like, you know, our universe being a bubble, like,
here's your little bubble. And what's on the other side of this line of the bubble?
Well, we don't know because we've never seen it. So, but there could be, you know, if you go with
the brain thing, there could be, which is B-R-A-N-E, by the way. You can, and they think now that they've
actually seen evidence. I don't know much about this, so I can't give you too much information,
but they feel like they've seen something that looks like it's bounced off of our universe.
Like this in the cosmic background, there are these little anomalies that they think maybe
other universes that are pinged off of us, like, you know, on a pool table or something, right? So,
who knows? We could unpack that shit in the future once there's some detectable evidence
that we can use because they can't really use that. They just say, well, we've noticed these
anomalies. We think that that could be what it is. But of course, it's all just guessing for the
time being, but they're educated guesses, of course, as science usually is. So, I mean, they've
now discovered that they can turn, I think there's a bunch of pulsars that they've been watching and
stuff, and they've now figured out a way, I don't have no idea how, but they've figured out a way
how to turn, using signals, they can turn them all into a giant telescope and be able to see even
further. Google it or something, because I've watched a couple of videos on this, and they're
talking about how that could be useful in the future for actually seeing even further into space,
because of, you know, lensing, gravitational lensing and stuff like that, they can use that. So,
which is weird, but I'm excited to find out if they can do that kind of cool shit. That'd be awesome.
So, do you think that, yeah, sorry, go.
But, you know, these are questions that we're still learning, we're still dealing with. Lots of
these questions, we are still, or at least the answers to these questions are still revealing
themselves to us. So, all we can do is keep plugging away and packing away the evidence as it comes
along, all right? And, you know, well, you'll also, you'll get people say, well, science gets things
wrong. Well, yeah, of course they do, right? Nobody gets it right the first time, every time,
right? But as our technology gets better, and our learning gets better, you know, those little,
those big gaps are getting smaller and smaller and smaller on how we can discover things,
and it gets easier. It's like people that were all pissed off about, oh, didn't take them off,
got the COVID vaccine? Well, no, of course not. We've had, how many years have we been doing
vaccines now? And the technology keeps improving, it's exponential. So, yeah, it might take less
than a year to get a good vaccine going. So, common tips and, you know, fucking shut the fuck up.
So, just get vaccinated, you stupid idiots. And, you know, unless you like,
oh, no, vaccines for, right? So,
all right, this is for you for me. Oh,
I can see, I can see, I can see, yeah. Yeah. So, sorry, I was just saying that people just,
you see an idiocracy? That's what we're heading into right now.
I haven't seen an idiocracy. Oh, dude. But that's where Crocs came from, by the way.
Oh, really? Yeah. I like Crocs. Well, they're comfy, but they're ugly as fuck.
So, you've, I really want to, so a big thing about what you do online is you help people who
are deconstructing, I guess, tell their stories. Do you have any moments that really stand out
for you, like, on your show? Can you go over a few of those?
Sure. I mean, one of the ones with Ocean Geltway was, you know, he was saying that,
you know, when he decided to give it up, that he was having issues with a lot of his friends
and stuff like that. And they started calling him like a devil type worshiper and stuff like that,
which is crazy to me. Like, just because you're not believing in Christianity or whatever,
now you just worship the devil. That's the only other option. Like, what the fuck?
You know, and I hear lots of kind of stories like that where they think that, oh, my kids
now satanic or whatever, right? One of the, I think there's a guy I had on, I've mentioned
this one before because this one really hit me really hard because he came on, he even didn't
hide himself or anything like that. He's an ex-Muslim. And there was a chance, although he told me,
he said with full confidence that he highly doubts that any of his family members are ever going to
see this, that he could have been killed for coming on the show and talking about why he doesn't
believe. Yeah, like, and that's not the first person that said that they, mind you, they were
disguised, of course. And I have someone else that wants to come on, but they're going to have to
disguise themselves as well. And I find this, this is the kind of thing, when I say like religion is
harmful, that's what I'm talking about. Like, this is the kind of thing, like, it's harmful to have
your family and your friends disown you. That sucks, period. But to have them not only disown you,
but now want to fucking kill you because you don't believe what they believe. What?
That shit blows me away. And I, and it's a belief system that brings those people to those types
of conclusions that, well, you don't believe in God and you don't believe what we believe. So
you have to die. What? Yeah, when I go, All right, son, we get it.
You don't believe what we believe. That's fine. But, you know, because of our rules, whatever the
fuck, we're going to have to kick you out of the house. You know, like, if that's as bad as it gets,
then that's great. I mean, it's not great, but you know what I mean, your life isn't bad, but
right. Yeah, yeah, it's not the excommunication, the even having things like taken out of the family
heritage or wills and heritages and stuff like that. So you'll never be able to,
you'll never be apart. It's just like, that is harmful shit. And that's what these,
especially the Abrahamic beliefs, lead to, is this kind of shit? That's like, what in the fuck?
Some more than others, obviously, but 100%. And I don't just, I've just put the banner up
because we have Nuri Akan, uh, ex, ex-fantastic next week. She's, she's amazing. Uh, I mean,
a second time coming on, this time we're going to be attacking the apologists of Islam. Um,
but one of the things that she, that happened, and I've never seen received so much hate
on my channel before ever. Um, the, a short that got 13,000 views, which is the most
short it's ever gotten views, um, is about Nuri Akan's journey. And she was in an abusive
relationship and in Dubai. And because they, they opted for the, um, Islamic to bring that up to,
by the way. Yeah. The Islamic laws, um, the Islamic marriage, they had to go to get a divorce.
They had to go through the Islamic courts and women don't have, um, the same, like men are always
trusted above women. And she would say like his being abusive for X reason, they believed him.
And he said, she's got a demon or gin, she's got a gin and she needs her, you know,
and they, um, had to go to counseling and stuff. And it's just the,
it's just a story of her telling that story. Right. And look at these, I just want to share this.
Okay. So you can share the screen. Just look at these comments. Um, absolutely brutal. Um,
the, um, the interview was a embarrassing to watch and blatant misrepresentation,
especially about Islam. She's been debunked already as a Muslim. I'm shocked. This girl is a good
actress. The biggest lie lie of her, that is UA thing, blah, blah, blah. Such a sad story. Um,
that's all right. That's an all right one. Um,
if you genuinely feel sympathy for this woman, research her first statement by default,
women are not allowed to divorce in Islam. You can't find out her opening statement was false.
And the Oscar goes to, she is such a liar. Um, my wife, who is, uh, in a niqab by her own choice
says she's very happy with me. I must be doing something wrong. This is misleading.
Women do have the right to divorce in Islam. She is wrong on so many levels. Every woman has the
right, um, to leave the house if a man beats on her woman. So, but what they all didn't get is the
fact that she technically had the right to divorce in Islam, but they have to go through the courts
and the courts will favor the men's, um, uh, testimony because women, women are actually
seen as dumber, um, in Islam. So she did that. She tried to go through the courts. He lied.
And so therefore she didn't have the right to divorce. She, the court said, no, you know,
we're taking your husband's, um, word for it. So like, it's just disgusting that, that this is what
it's come to where like, you've got all these people defending like, like mocking and laughing at
this at Nuriah about being abused by her ex-husband to defend their barbaric, fucked up belief system.
I know. I know. It's, it's, it's, dude, like it's, it's unbelievable. And that's the biggest problem
I have with, with the Abrahamic face, you know, right off the top is the harm that that shit
causes. It's unbelievable. And, and it needs to go away. In my opinion, we don't, we fuck, let's
evolve through this shit, people. We don't need this shit anymore. Women aren't worth half as much as men.
Most of the women I've ever met are working twice as much as me.
You're not reading that in context. You got to read it in context.
Fuck off with the context. Context changes upon the reader. So you can bite my ass on that one.
And Kip, Kip just showed up and fellow BC or Kip, who I still, still got to get on the show too.
Yeah. Come on, man. We can have so much fun, buddy. We can have so much fun.
Kip, Kip is, um, Kip is good.
I've seen a lot of it, a lot of it is interviews that he's had recently because if you ask me,
uh, until maybe a little under six months ago, I didn't even know who the hell he was.
So he just popped up all of a sudden and on all these different streams. I was like, I fuck this
guy's great. Fucking smart as a whip. He's a BC or EA. And, and, you know, and I talked to him a
little bit in the messages and I found that he went to, uh, I think he said it was Trinity, uh,
Western or whatever. It was just, yeah, Trinity Western school and fucking bullshit here that
I've had incidents with those of you that sticks before. Um, yeah, there's a fun story to that one.
Yeah, I made one of them cry. So that was kind of, I put that in a win category. Oh, there's a
couple of them. I think I was, I was a painter at the time. I was doing, I was doing drywalling
painting at the time because I, I had, uh, I got out of the record store industry. I was,
I used to work for Sam the record man and I worked at the Richmond center outlet and I also
worked downtown Vancouver once in a while and I had enough with the manager. So I kind of got
out of that. And then a friend of mine is like, well, just come and do drywalling and painting
with me. You'll make way more than you did as, as a record store manager. Um,
and I'm at these two kids at the bus stop because I walked off the job site. I was like,
fuck this. I'm done with this guy too. And I walked off the jobs. I don't, I don't take
shit from anybody by the way. So, and I sat, I was sitting in there and these two guys
looked like fucking Mormons, but they said they were from twin Trinity Western and that's
where they were heading. So, um, they're, I'm like, well, why are you on this side of the
fucking street? The bus you want is over there and you're going the other way. And they saw,
well, we saw you sitting there and you looked angry and we wanted to come and ask you what
you're, what was that? I saw, I just had to blow up with my, uh, my supervisor work and I'm, I'm
going home like, fuck that shit. And, uh, they said, Oh, wow. Um, well, have you heard about
Jesus? And I'm like, around here, who the fuck hasn't heard about Jesus kind of thing, right?
And he goes, well, do you believe in Jesus? I said, no, A, I was raised Jewish. So no.
And B, I don't believe in any of that nonsense. And they go, why do you call it nonsense?
Because it's fucking nonsense. Like you look at any of these biblical stories from the
the Hebrew Bible to the New Testament and you want to tell me that this shit actually happened?
Come on, man. Are you kidding me? And well, it did. It's just the, this is the truth,
the word of God, blah, blah, blah. And we had a bit of a conversation there. By the end of it,
I had one of the, I think it was a younger kid, a little blonde hair kid, just, um,
maybe they were, well, did they ever tell you a kid that some mean, long-haired man made them
cry? Well, anyways, I was good. Listen, your God fucking hates people like me. I'm going to burn
in hell for no reason just because I don't believe it. Right. So fuck you. Fuck your God. And then
the skid just started crying and I'm like, holy shit, man. Uh, yeah. Um, so yeah, it's quite the
encounter. And I kind of just swallowed their pride and walked away. What else? It is amazing how
easy you can get. Like, because I saw this thing by Dark Mother, um, Dark Mother.
Matt, John, you're good too. Yeah. Amazing. But it talks about like how a rejection of God,
white offends people is because the part of the brain that lights up when you pray to God is
actually self. It's actually the part of your brain that you deal with. Same parts light up when
you're watching your favorite band live in concert, by the way. Oh, interesting. Interesting.
And that's why, so, so when someone rejects God, it feels like a rejection of that person,
even though they can't rationalize it. And then of course, you know, people cry when they have
confusing emotions, when they're either, you know, when you have confusing emotions, when you're
hurt and you're like, Oh, I don't know what hurts when your baby you cry. You know, this is, this
is that, you know, people cry from, from, you know, they don't know what to do with their emotions.
That was a bit of conjecture from me, but that's what I think. So, but, but I remember one time I
had a guard sale and I was selling a Christian book and this lady came up and said, Oh, you're
selling this book? Have you read it? And I said, No, I haven't read it. It was, it was a holy water
or something story. And she started talking to me about like, Why, why are you selling it? And I
said, Oh, I don't really believe in God anymore. And I go, Oh, why not? And I said, Oh, it's hard
to investigate. And I was like, Oh, no. And like this conversation started developing. Go to the
point where she bought it only to give it back to me and to tell me to read it. Yeah. So she bought
it. Or she, she said, read it. I can't remember. She's like, she's like, don't you need to read,
you need to go read this book. And I was like, Oh, thank you. But no, thanks. You know, like,
we're all right. And she's like, Oh, you need to, you need to read this book. You need to read
this book. And she, as I was bringing her stuff, helping her bring the stuff that she bought at
my garage sale to her car, she was crying and telling me like, read the book, you need to read
the book. And I'm like, Jesus, like, I'm just trying to sell a book. Like, like, you know, I don't
know. It was, it was, it was, it was rough. We have to sell it twice. So
exactly. We have a super chat. Thank you so much for the chat. Vishanti. Vishanti. What was your
bar mitzvah Torah portion, if you recall? Because I don't even think I knew where in the Torah was
when I actually read it the first time around. I Man, Vishanti man, I've lost so much of my Hebrew
because they don't use it every day, right? So, you know, I remember all the swear words.
Wait, so do you have to learn in Hebrew? Yeah, yeah, you have to read it in Hebrew.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. Okay, dude, I lived in Israel for like two years. So I speak quite a bit of Hebrew.
But I thought they spoke English everywhere. And every other language was just silly.
Silly, like just for some silly. English is, you know, because of business,
English is probably the most spoken language in the world. You know, what's right after it?
Go ahead and guess what's right after it. Mandarin. Nope.
What? Spanish. Well, I think, I think it's something like 13% of the world speaks English.
Well, it speaks the first language. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Do I remember the Torah portion?
I remembered like first, if I pulled it out, if I had it somewhere, I could probably pull it out
and go through it and probably be able to remember. But I think I remember like the opening line,
which is like, you have to sing your Haftora portion too, right? You don't just speak it,
you actually sing it. So if I remember correctly, I like the opening line is
And then it goes on and on. So it was, what's basically means the, the, the third day or something,
by he or whatever the hell it is, I don't remember. Then Moses was about to do something.
Kara Moshe likes about Moses was going to, and then I can't remember the rest of it. But
Yeah, I think I actually probably blocked it out of my mind. So
I would, I would love to listen to you doing that in your band, which by the way, I'm now pinned,
pinned to the tweet of your band so people can go check out your band.
There's also, you have a YouTube channel, of course, everyone knows your YouTube channel
for those who don't, either 500 conversion stories, which is just wild. I'm on here somewhere.
Where am I? It was Jimmy Snow.
Snow was fun to have on.
It took me forever to get him on there.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I, it took me a while to get on there. Look at that handsome lad
there. Look at us. Just two hot dudes. Just two super tracking dudes. Well, one anyways, dude. I
don't know about me. I'm wearing the same bandana. What's going on here? I was never taking it off,
shit. I have like 14 of these things, so I just swap them out. You know why I wear this particular
one? Because they made my logo with me wearing this particular one. I'm like, well, I can't
change my bandana style now. Yeah. No one will recognize me.
Yeah. So I've got some questions for you just as we wrap up. Sure. We have another super chat,
but I'll just ask my question first. What advice would you give to someone? Like you've listened
to so many people's deconstruction stories. What advice would you give to someone who is
deconstructing them? The advice that I would give to somebody is definitely like if you're
starting to have questions, if some of this stuff is starting to kind of wiggle your brain a little
bit, like this really isn't computing, like never stop asking questions. Never stop researching. Go
deep into your belief system and never stop researching what it's all about, how it originated,
that kind of thing. And you'll slowly start to, like an onion, you'll slowly start to
peel away these layers and realize that this stuff is really just like any other
deity driven belief system. They're mythologies. They are all part of the human imagination,
and so keep questioning and keep looking into that. Because like I've always used the Wizard of
Oz as a bit of an example, once you've seen behind the curtain, it's hard to close that curtain
again and think that the wizard is real. You'll, once you uncover that stuff, you will eventually,
you'll find your way free. And when you do, my email is 6048thiest at gmail.com.
We have on literally anyone who's de-converted, but you, like say if I had friends who were,
you know, like, oh, I'd love to tell my story and they were, could I send them your way or like
send them an email? Yeah, absolutely. Sure. Interesting. I get emails all the time from people
saying, oh, I saw, I want a couple of your shows and I noticed you had an email, I'd like to come
on and share my story and I've had many people on just because of that. There's a couple of
superstitious people. Do you talk to people who are, who are in the process of de-converting?
I don't know if I've ever had someone in the process. I'm talking to some people through
TikTok currently. There's this whole rabbit hole on TikTok called de-construction and there's a
lot of people in there that are de-constructing it. I've talked to a few of them and, you know,
they're hesitant to come on because they haven't really given it all up, but they're well
on their way to doing just that. So I've told them, I've said, you know, when you figure you're
finally done with this, then look me up, right? So, and we'll have you on. A couple of them,
I think, will probably be doing the show soon. Cool. But yeah, I just, I'll tell people, just
never stop questioning. Never stop asking the questions, even if it seems like,
well, this is the hard part of the answer. You may get disowned by people that you care about.
You may get kicked to the curb. You may get people not wanting to talk to you or deal with you
because of these questions, but don't stop asking. Don't stop investigating. Believe me,
every person, every one of them has said how much better they feel
after they leave all of this ship behind. They no longer have to be a bigot. They no longer
have to be a homophobe. They no longer have to be an out-of-ass hole. You know, like,
they don't have to behave like that anymore. They realized that, you know, for one of them,
they had gay friends and they couldn't understand why the rest of their family was like, oh,
gay is wrong and trans is wrong and blah, blah, blah. And they couldn't understand that and they
kept asking themselves, what doesn't God love everybody? I was told God loves everybody. Jesus
loves everybody. No, not the gays. Not the gays, Neil. Right. So they said they were so happy to
be able to give that up. Like, they didn't have to think that way anymore, right? Yeah, I hate the
terminology. Love the sin. I hate the sin. I hate that so much because I just, I just,
I just say to people, yeah, love the religious, hate the religion, and then like, see how that
makes them feel. Yeah, yeah. But we've got a couple more super chats. Thank you. Thank you,
Vishanti, again. The textual, for the $10 super chat, for the textual literal,
literalism makes me think Orthodox. Neil, what was the stream of Judaism you grew up in?
I believe, if I remember correctly, my dad always called it reform.
Ah, okay. Reform Judaism. Yeah.
Interesting. I had friends that were Orthodox and Hasidic as well.
The conversation, the documentary that I'm kind of doing and the raw interviews that are on the
Patreon with Kip, they all started because I asked the question, who were the Pharisees historically
because Kip blew me away and pointed out that the Bible teaches one kind of narrative of who
the Pharisees are, but it may not be representative. And you realize that Christianity originally was
just another sect within Judaism. The Essenes, the zealots, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the
someone else, I don't know. But like, where did Jesus fit amongst these groups? Like,
where did Christianity fit amongst these groups until it became to the Gentiles as well? And it
became a really interesting question. And so, you know, and where do these groups go, you know?
Like, so, yeah. Hang on. Could I address something, Vishanti, who followed up
interesting reform usually doesn't take the text literal history. That's true. Very much so.
My dad always said that he thought it was just mythology as well. But my Hebrew school teachers
were Orthodox. Okay, there you go. So, yeah, big, big, big confusing messaging there.
Hang for a sheet. Thank you for the photo super chat. And I think you thank you for
becoming a Patreon supporter as well. I saw that you joined this last week. And I really
appreciate that. What are your top three atheist rock songs and why?
I love how he's just, I wrote two. There you go.
What are they? Well, they're one of those called there. You can't hear them yet because we just
wrote them. So, we haven't recorded them yet. One's called Let It Go and the other one's called Cut
the Strings. Jesus, I don't know. XTC did One Dear God. I think that's probably up top there for me.
I think I don't know if that's been mentioned because I'm sure the chat has mentioned.
But that's one that I can think of off the top of my head anyways. I was very much into XTC
when I was young because they were like one of the first new wave bands that I really grew to
like. I was hooked right away when Making Plans for Nigel hit the airwaves, right? They do a Dear
God one. Now, is that, did they, I can't remember, did they write that as XTC or did they write that
as the band that came out of that called Crowded House?
I have no idea. Well, I, when I had Kip on first time, we spent 40 or five minutes drinking whiskey
and talking about metal bands. So it'd be, it'd be a great disservice to not ask you like your top
three metal bands. Had a dad by James Addiction. I just was listening to that on the way home from work
today. He was big and strong. How do your favorite Christian rocks on? I think, you know what, Kip?
I gotta say, when Striper came out, the hell with the devil was pretty cool. I went and saw them live
here at that B&E Forum and they were throwing little tiny Bibles out into the audience there.
I mean, we're all smoking dubes and we're like, what's this shit? What the hell's going on?
I'm like, what the hell was their name? Crowded to Confirmity when they were up on stage. They were
throwing dubies out into the audience. So what are your top three favorite metal bands?
Okay, that's an easy one. Black Sabbath number one, all time favorite.
Ooh, okay. All right. I would have to say, if we're sticking to the genre metal or harder rock
stuff, we can go rock as well. Okay, because my top three are literally Black Sabbath,
Led Zeppelin and Tool. I know Tool is a little bit newer than the other two.
Oh, Tool. That's something about Tool. They're so good, right? Yeah. And then there's other bands
like I Love Rush. Good Canadian boys there. And Allison Chains, Soundgarden, Pearl Jam,
the whole grunge era really hit me hard. Like that kind of stuff. Yeah. I love, you know what though,
I love all music, almost all music. There's some opera that gives me a nosebleed, but
I love classical music at the same time. Like I love jazz. I love blues. I love rock. I love heavy
metal. I love some of the, some of those disgusting old 70s adult contemporary things like Eric
Harmon's Oh, by myself. You know, I just love music. If it sounds good to me, I'll like it. I
don't care what it is. Maybe like BTS for fuck's sakes. Can you get into rap music? Oh, I love
some rap. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah, right. Like DC boys, Cypress Hill. You know, like there's
my, uh, some fun ones. Crass. Crass is a great band. They're punk rock, though.
Oh, D. Thank you so much, D, for the super chat. Guys, Google the band Crass, the song
Reality Asylum, Top Monster Blast Me. Okay. I've been listening to some black metal recently.
Listening to Bersam. I'm not Bersam. Um, Mayhem's first album that like really like dark black metal.
And, uh, but my favorite, my favorite metal bands. I said this with Kip was, um, Ramstein,
probably number one, very close second to Slipknot. Slipknot is probably, I just, their music,
both, both, both of them, their music is, is good. Like I love the music, great music, but it's,
yeah, yeah, but it's, it's the, um, it's the creative process they put behind it that I just
respect so much. The work that I'm showing to the music videos, the, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
and, uh, Slipknot and their, and their, and their philosophy behind it all. It's just some,
it's incredible. Yeah. Um, until industrial, I'll always be, um,
um,
what can they call now the Psalm 69 album ministry? I'm always a big ministry, uh,
skinny puppy, which is from where I am. They're from, you know, like this is the industrial
that I go. The original stuff, the stuff that first came out. Yeah, there's, um, yeah, there's, um,
uh, lost my train of thought. Um, but it's, yeah, I'm a big fan of all types of music. Um,
even I can even go any type of music really, like I can even get into country and, um, and, um,
I like a lot of rap music. Um, I like that rap as the kids say. I like that rap.
Static X is awesome for Shanti and nine-ish nails. I mean, what else can you say? No,
I've been to nine-ish nails. I met him when he was at the, uh, hairdressing place that I went to.
Um, uh, I went to my friend's hairdressing place and, and he walked in with the girl he was dating
at the time and, uh, she got her haircut. So I'm like, why do you look so familiar? He goes,
oh, I'm, I'm in a band. This is when they were quite, see, you only had the two albums out,
I think at the time. My name is Trent and I'm like, yeah, that's it. Trent Riesner.
And then I had to leave. So I didn't really get into much of a conversation with the guy, but
I had to leave. I met Ozzy too. Ozzy Osbourne. Really? Yeah. He was eating muffins and coffee.
Well, I was working at Santa recommend and this guy comes in, he's got long greasy blonde hair,
uh, kind of ripped up shirt and jeans and stuff. And he's digging through the bargain tapes. And I'm
like, oh, Steve, keep your eye on this guy. Right? He comes up and he's got Stevie Nicks greatest
hits and a Ry Cougar side project. I'm not sure if you're familiar with who Ry Cougar. He's probably
one of the best blues guitarists ever, but, uh, he's got a project called Ark Angels and he
drops the cassettes cassettes. This is already in the nineties, the early nineties, but, uh, CDs are
a thing, but he puts the cassettes down and he drops down this fucking platinum visa and on it,
it says Zachary Phillip Wilde. I'm like, I look at him like Ozzy's guitar player goes, yeah,
what the fuck are you doing here? Oh, we're recording a couple of tunes at the studio here
in Richmond. I was like, is Ozzy with you right now? So I thought, well, he's just over at the
muffin shop. I'm like, Steve, I'm taking my break. And I went over there and I probably talked to him
for like, it seemed like forever because I was in my glory because Ozzy's like my all time fish.
And, and, um, I talked to him for, I don't know, three, four minutes and he told me a quick little
story about, because he was already finished and I just, I was trying to just slow down my coffee
just to have a couple words of them. And yeah, rest in peace, Wayne static. Absolutely. And, um,
he just told me a quick little fun story about some groupies and stuff that him and Tony had
I owe me was the guitar player for Sabbath had had some shenanigans with on one of their tours
and he's like, listen, man, I got to get back to doing my recording. So it's nice to meet you, Neil.
And maybe we'll see you again someday. And then they was, he was like, gone. And I just met Ozzy.
Nobody believes you know, these weren't the thing yet. So I couldn't take any photographic evidence.
Yeah. Yeah. It's pretty cool. We have this like claim to fame in our family. This is
the bit separate, but it's, it's that one thing that no one believes us where we have, um, why my,
when Bruce Lee, not Bruce Lee, oh my gosh, when Jackie Chan, I can't believe I'm on the
alcohol because I'm not drinking, but when Jackie Chan first came to Australia, he live at my,
my, my stepmother's mom's house. So kind of like my nan's house. And, you know, they, and we've got
one photo of him, but it's his back as he's turning around. It's like just his back as he's
turning around. And he used, he used children's books to learn how to like better to speak English
and things like that. But he worked later when he first came. And no one believes I'm like, no,
Jackie Chan did not live at your family's house. Like he did. And when you show him the photo,
all it is is like someone's back and then it just says Jackie. And that's it. And that's the
all the evidence that we have. And it's so annoying that no one believes it. Anyway, I know, I know,
I met quite a few people in my time. Tommy Chan being another one. Thank you so much for coming
on, uh, Deep Drinks. It's been, it's been a long time coming. It's been awesome. And there's been
Francis coming in your show as well. And I just, I hated me, David, those sort of things. No, no,
absolutely not. There's lots of like, one thing that like a lot of people do send me, you know,
people to have on and things like that. But I have a narrative structure in my head like who
I'm putting on. And sometimes like things get like right now we're on anti-apologetic arcs. So
I'm trying to bring on. So there's, there are people I've had in my mind for every year, but
I'm like, I just need to feel when they need to slit slot in. So I apologize for taking
someone to get you on my damn show. But yeah, it's awesome to have you here. I know that you
love doobies. So when, when that ever gets legal in Australia, we can have a deep smoke and watch,
we can watch, we can have a panic attack. This is, this is what legal marijuana looks like here,
kids. Oh, wow. Damn. It comes in little tubes like this. It's legal in us. It's decriminalized in
the state in a tiny little state where all the politicians live. Everywhere else is criminal
offense, but all the politicians get to smoke it till their heart's content. Anyway, I, I hate
when I get panic attacks every time I smoke it. So that'll be fun to watch. So all right, well,
thanks so much, Neil, for coming on. And do you have anything cool coming up that you want to
tell everyone about before we get off? I got a couple more episodes. I kept thinking we were
doing this tomorrow. So I didn't schedule a guest for tomorrow, which is fine, because I actually
I have something I got to go do tomorrow anyways. So that worked out just fine. My, my, my mom,
my mom kind of had a little bit of a slip up the other day. So she's hurt herself and I went to
the hospital. I was supposed to be going to the BC Lions game, but I ended up at the hospital
with her for a bit. And then I took her out yesterday. So she's, she's, but they didn't,
they got the x-rays back. It's not broken or anything. She didn't hurt herself that badly. So
just in a lot of pain. So I told her I would take her out for dinner tomorrow as well. So
you know, it's just to keep her spirits up because she does suffer from depression. So
yeah, other than that, I've got two more shows before August and I'm taking August off. I have
a bunch of like trips and stuff that I'll be doing, including Shannon Q and Paula Gia will be coming
here to Vancouver. So I'll be hanging out with them for most of the time that they're here or
whenever possible, because they're going to be wanting to do stuff on their own too, because
she's bringing the little one with her as well. And they've got, they've got like the waterslide
park plan. They want to go up to Whistler. They want to, I want to take them to the
Granville Island Marketplace and there's all kinds of stuff we could do. Hell's Gate. So
yeah, there's lots of stuff that we'll be doing and that's for a week of it. So I won't be really
around for then. And then I got another trip that I'll be going up to in the interior. So August
is off, but I'm rescheduling for September or I will be scheduling for September. So if anyone
out there does have a story that they want to share, my channel is very safe space and you can
come on, you can tell, tell your story to the world or the 3000 plus something subscribers that I do
have anyways. And I'll tell you this, every story helps. Every story helps other people that might
be having these questions and might be having this lack of belief. They all help. So
where can people reach you if they do have those stories?
Well, you can reach me, I'm on Twitter at 604Atheist. I am also on Facebook, Neil Bernstein. You
can't miss it. I think I had this up on my channel for the longest time on my page on Facebook,
but I changed that to my logo. So you can't miss my logo. It's the red like a Canadian flag with
me sitting in the middle of it. And also 604Atheist at gmail.com.
Okay, I'll post that now so people can see it. That's how I spell it right this time. I
spelled it wrong. I'm sitting this up. I've done that one. So if you've got a, if you're,
if you've recently, you've converted or want to tell your story, you can check out Neil's channel.
And Dr. Kip, you need to go tell your story, apparently. Yeah, I'll kind of make a comment.
I mean, I'll talk about it.
Thank you so much, Neil. And also, of course, check out your channel one last time and the music.
I posted my episode of my de-conversion story in the chat. So if you want to watch it,
there's the link. And of course, every other episode is just as awesome. There's some really,
really good episodes in here. So thank you so much, Neil, for coming on. It's been an absolute
pleasure. Did I mention that I have a co-host too? And his name is Mikey Famon. Okay, cool.
He wasn't on my episode. He was, he like, I didn't bring him in till after that.
Yeah. Yeah. We had an after party and you do after party school. Yes. Well,
that helps people learn more of the community, right? Or meet more people. Yeah. Yeah, for sure.
For sure. Well, thank you so much, everyone. And thanks for coming out. And we'll see you
in a few days for Nuri Khan's episode. And then after that, we got Dr. Josh and then we
got a couple of cool guests that are unannounced, but talk to you guys soon. Bye.
Cheers.
