Welcome to Deep Drinks podcast. At this point everyone well most people should
know that the Gospels are anonymous. We don't have signatures to these Gospels.
We don't know who wrote them. They were written in a different language in a
different location from and written 40 at least 30 to 40 years after the
accounts in which they aim to retail. But the question is are the Gospel
writers writing from someone who was an eyewitness? Do they have
eyewitness testimony inside of their Gospels? So that's what we're looking
at today and today it's gonna be awesome. It's also my birthday and I'm very
excited for this one. So I want to introduce my guests very quickly. Dr.
Kip Davis is a Hebrew Bible scholar who specializes in the Dead Sea Scrolls and
Second Temple Judaism. His expertise is in ancient scribal practices. He is a
PhD in Religion and Theology from Manchester University and was on the
team that uncovered forgeries in the Dead Sea Scrolls antiquity market.
Welcome Dr. Kill.
I actually have grown to love that song. It is an awesome song.
It's incredible. It's one of my favorites. So happy birthday David. Thank you so much.
Thank you so much. It's 34 today. It's all downhill from here.
Every time someone else has a birthday I tell them it's all downhill from here.
Thanks so much guys. You are exactly 10 years older than my oldest son.
Oh wow. Cool. He is 24 today. Which is not really today. It's yesterday.
So I'm in the 29th. I'm in the future. Yeah. And I'm in the past.
Trump is still a bit weird but a bit loony and something like that.
On the 29th he's still a little old. Yeah. He's still a bit old.
Yeah. Yeah. There's some weird stuff going on in Florida. Besides that, things are still...
Excellent. Thank you for coming on. So we weren't going to do this.
I was looking at the schedule and I was like, man, I want to jump right back into the conversation
we were having the other day about Lee Stravel's book, The Case for Christ.
We went through the first chapter in three hours. We don't have that much time today.
But what we're going to do is look at the claim that the Gospel writers were the eyewitnesses,
were eyewitnesses to the things that they kind of describe in the Gospels.
But first of all, first, with deep sorrow, I have to say that we're not drinking exactly the
same thing. But I was going to ask, what did you choose that I couldn't get?
I chose McEwen's Scotch Ale, which is what I drank when I was in Manchester constantly.
Yeah. So, and I'm sorry that you couldn't find it, David. So what did you replace it with?
Well, first of all, Lady Wassa is just in a $5 super chat. Thank you so much.
That's made my birthday ever so nice. Thank you. I appreciate it. I've seen you around in the chat.
I like seeing your face pop up. Lady Wassa is one of my patrons.
Oh, cool, cool. Oh, nice. Pragmatic Crystal always here with support. Like, I love all you guys.
This is going to be very much, I love everyone's stream.
I wanted to say something else. I'm just so happy to see that Aaron Adair is here.
Even after I said so many mean things about him the last time. So, Aaron, thank you.
Thank you for coming. And I hope you don't take me seriously ever.
He doesn't know what you're talking about. You did clarify that you were only joking.
He does.
But yes. So, what are you substituting?
Okay. So, this is my thought process. So, yesterday, I had a stream with Captain Dadpoole.
I told Captain Dadpoole, look, I work probably to do like 90 minutes.
And Captain Dadpoole did his presentation and he just was, it was so goddamn good.
And we just, I just like, let's just keep going. And we went for, I don't want to swear because
we're not seven minutes yet, but like three hours and 45 minutes. It was effing huge.
But, and my brain was like frazzled by the end, but it was just so good.
So, I didn't have time to go out and get anything. So, my beautiful wife was out there like running
around bottle shops and she's like, this shop doesn't have Scottish ale, this bottle shop doesn't
have Scottish ale. And we're just trying to find a Scottish ale somewhere. And I was like, all right,
don't worry about it. I'm like, it's all good. Well, I'll just use what I have in the fridge.
And I had two beers in the fridge turns out. And I wanted to drink this one last night,
because last night was my, I played D&D with some friends and my character is drunk, a drunk dwarf
and I method act. I have to method act because I'm a purist. You are like, I get more interested.
All the time drunk, drunk, drunk, drunk. That's actually, it's actually a problem because every
time I seem to message, like old deep drinks people, it's because I'm drinking and I've like
it's something's like the same vibe or memories popped into my head and I'm like, oh,
and they're like, you're always drunk. I'm like, I'm not, I just only message you what I'm drunk.
Anyway, so, so I was like, okay, so I had Coopers, which was an Australian beer,
a stout. I don't know, put me onto it. It's become one of my favorites. And I was like,
that's not close enough to Scotland. So I chose the beer closest to Scotland, which is
a German Hefe, a wheat beer from Germany. And this is very nice. It's one of my favorites. I
really like it. So it's nothing like I love a good half advice. But it's at least at least in,
it's at least in Europe. You know, so like it's the best I can do. So, you know, I apologize when I
I was actually, I was actually on my way to the liquor store when I had this, when I had this
thought, I was like, oh, because you had, you had said you weren't sure if you were going to be able
to get it. And then I was like, oh, I was like, we should just drink Erdinger, which I, I bet you'd
be able to get in Melbourne. But next time, next time we'll drink Erdinger, which is, which is
another really, really nice German by spear. Oh, okay. Yeah, nice. I am. Yeah, you are, you have
excellent choice in drinks. I will say that. Cheers. Yeah, cheers. I pour myself into this fancy
glass. So let's jump into it. I don't get to drink from the bottle very often. So I'm, I'm,
Oh, yeah, I'm relishing it. So testing eyewitness accounts. So let me just ask you the question.
In your opinion, as a Bible scholar, and as someone, you said last time you hadn't changed
your perspective on this, since you were a Christian, not a Christian, but so,
so as a Bible scholar, in your opinion, what are the chances that the Gospels,
well, let me just ask where the Gospels written by eyewitnesses?
There's zero chance the Gospels were written by eyewitnesses. Okay. And we'll get into the
chance. Okay. Zero. Zero. All right. I think it's, it's zero. And I will explain as we go.
Okay. What about, what about the chance that they were written by people on behalf of
someone who was an eyewitness? So what are the chances they, they, they preserve eyewitness
testimony? Yeah, like, is that, is that a way of, or like someone was sitting next to them saying,
and then I, and then, you know, Jesus, like said to the fishermen, become fishers of man.
So, I will say that it's not zero.
But it's pretty, it's, it's pretty unlikely, pretty unlikely. Really? I would think so.
Does everyone know what we're doing? We're, we're reading this, this terrible book.
Ah, yes. These strobles, The Case for Christ.
The Case for Christ. Yes. So chapter two is all about testing the eyewitness evidence. But
I thought because it's so broad, it's so broad of a subject, we could just trigger this own
subject but follow the, the chapter as an outline. Yeah, absolutely. In case things have come forward
in the last 20 years or however long it's been since you wrote it. Yeah. Actually 20 years.
Yeah, I guess so. So this is chapter two in Strobel's book. And this is,
this is still, he actually, he committed two chapters to his first interview with,
what's his name? Craig Blomberg from Denver Seminary. And in the last chapter, Blomberg,
well, I guess we established contrary, they really wanted to establish that the Gospels were written
by who they claimed to have been written by. I think that was kind of the big claim, right?
Yeah, which, which after Captain Deadpool's presentation yesterday, I was like,
how can anyone believe that? No, no, unless Captain, unless Captain Deadpool was just like,
Ken Hovening me, but I just, I don't think so. But anyway. Alright, so we, so we have,
I think we've established that there is, there's no good reason to think that the traditional
authorship attributed to the Gospels is anyway legitimate. So, and right there, I think, I think
kind of, kind of flattens this idea of, of eyewitness testimony, but, but we'll get into it.
Because there's more. Yeah. And so, one of the things that they do is they have a bunch of tests
in the, in the book. So the first test they, they give is the intention test.
Yes. Do you have it up? Or do you want me to read what the intention test is? Yeah,
do you want, can you read what the intention test is? Because let me have the audio version.
Let me just pull it. Yeah, well, that's right. So yeah, let me just pull this up here. So the
intention test. This test seeks to determine whether it was stated or implied intention of the
writers to accurately preserve history. Were these first century writers even interested
in recording what actually happened? So, right, right at the outset, I spent some time talking
a little bit about this last time. What did, when, when, when we talked about the Gospels,
I suggested that these are not, these are not histories. The Gospels on their face
are theological documents. They are programmatic retellings of the life of Jesus,
containing possibly almost entirely invented stuff. Maybe some of it goes back to historical
kernels, but it's obvious. It's patently obvious. And we looked a little bit last time at the
Gospel in Luke from particular, because what Luke is doing is he is, is actually following
the narratives of Elijah and Elisha from the Old Testament, from the books of First and Second Kings,
and using a Greek text for this, the Greek translation of the Old Testament, and you
can actually track and see how he is using that story as a template for crafting his own story
in an effort to portray Jesus like this great, wonder-working prophet who, who came from the
north and who also had a mission to the Gentiles. So, right at the outset, let's just say, let's
just say the intention test fails spectacularly, because, because no, they're, they're not
interested, the Gospel writers are not interested in history. If they were interested in history,
they would have written like historians, and even ancient historians did their best to try and, and
provide some indication regarding the sources that they were using, where they got their
information, and the Gospel writers just never do anything like that.
Yeah, so doesn't one of the Gospels say that they're getting the information from
um, like someone who is a reliable source? So, uh, the Gospel of Luke, uh, the prologue to the Gospel
of Luke, uh, says that, that he has, well I'll just, I'll just read it here, what, what he says.
Let's see. The Luke says, since many have undertaken, this is NRSV, since many have
undertaken to set down and orderly accounted the events that have been fulfilled among us,
just as they were handed on to us by those from the beginning, uh, were I witnesses and
servants of the word, I too decided after investigating everything carefully from the
very first to write an orderly account for you, most excellent theophilus, so that you may know
the truth concerning the things about which you have been instructed. And even in this,
even in this, in this introduction to his text, Luke just makes the claim that, that the traditions
that he's received were handed to him by eyewitnesses. He doesn't actually say he went
and interviewed people, or like, like, took, you know, carefully took, took notes of, of, of
what people were telling him, or that he was, he was checking sources or anything. He just says,
these are the traditions that I received, you know, I've, you know, I've looked into them,
whatever that means, and, and they're totally legit. Um, so, but I mean, that's, that's, that's
the best, that's the best that we've got in terms of, uh, in terms of testing, testing the sources.
So, I don't see, go ahead. I was just gonna say, I see a quick super chat. I see a super chat.
Thank you so much, Gettysburg, Dmoniac. What I will do is with any questions that aren't specific
to what we're discussing, I'll ask them at the end. Um, so if you got, if anyone wants to super chat,
um, a question, uh, kind of not super related. Um, in fact, we'll just, we'll, I'll quickly ask
this one now, um, so we can, but in, in, in coming up, we'll just answer the non-specific ones at
the end. But as a desis scrolls scholar, what famous stories are missing from them? I've heard
David and Goliath is not found in one Samuel. And by the way, I love your course with Derek and
that course is an affiliate link. So if you want to support this channel, another way you can do
it is by clicking the affiliate link in the description and sign up for the Kips Amazing
Course. Oh, I mean, I mean, there's, there's lots and lots of stories that are missing from
the Dead Sea Scrolls just because there's, there's texts that are missing. We have almost nothing
of, uh, First and Second Kings in the scrolls and almost nothing from, um, uh, Chronicles.
We don't have the Book of Esther in the Dead Sea Scrolls. It's, it's completely absent. Um,
almost all of Ezra, Nehemiah is missing. So, you know, there's, there's piles of, of stories
themselves that we don't have. And in, you know, there are certainly holes in, in the stuff that
we do have. And offhand, I'm, I'm, I'm drawing a blank in terms of, in terms of some examples of
that. But do you not have the whole set memorized? Sadly, no. I, I do not.
So getting back to the book here though, you, you asked a question about, um, so something,
something that, um, uh, Blomberg mentions, uh, in his interview, he says that, uh, that John says
at the end of his gospel in John chapter 20, 31, these things are written that you may believe
that Jesus Christ, Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may
have life in his name. And then of course, skeptical strobel objects and says that sounds
more like a theological statement than an historical one. So, and, and the way Blomberg answers that
objection is precious. So he says, um, there's an important piece of implicit evidence that
can't be overlooked. Consider the way the gospels are written in a sober and responsible fashion
with accurate incidental details, with obvious care and exactitude. You don't find
outlandish flourishes and blatant mythologizing that you see in a lot of other ancient writings.
Yeah. What does that all add up to? He asked, then he answered his own question. It seems
quite apparent that the goal of the gospel writers was to attempt to core, to record
what had actually occurred.
I mean, I just, I just don't know what else to say. I really don't.
Matthew Monger is in the chat. Welcome, Matthew. Oh, yeah. Yeah, no way. Come on, come on, come on
soon to Deep Drinks. Come on to a Deep Drinks to you. But, um, but yeah, that word jumped out at
me, the mythologizing, because it clearly is. Like, clearly, clearly is. Like, there's so many,
there is like, don't we have like, and correct me if I'm wrong, but we have lots of like,
um, this is something Derek's talking a lot about on MythVision. We have a lot of dying and rising
gods and, and, uh, it's, it's, it's, it's almost like a cliche, like at, at, at the time.
You, and the, and tropes, right? Like, um, somebody brought one up on, on Twitter
a couple of weeks ago. Um, the idea that, uh, that when, when Jesus appears
to people after his, his resurrection, he's not recognized, right? Mary doesn't recognize him
right away in the one gospel. And then when he's on the road to Emmaus, he walks all the way,
you know, on the road to Emmaus with these two disciples and they don't recognize them. Um,
this is, this is a trope. This is, this is the, the unrecognizable God trope,
which is common within, you know, ancient, um, mythology. This, this takes place all over the
place throughout the, uh, the Old Testament as well. We have stories about, uh, about Yahweh
appearing to people and them not recognizing that he's, you know, Yahweh. So it's, I mean,
that's just about one example, right? And then in terms of, of fantastic flourishes, I mean, for,
for Christ's sakes, he, he's, he's on a mountaintop, uh, communing with, with Elijah and Moses.
He, he spends 40 days in the wilderness and is tested by Satan. Who takes him,
who takes him to the top of the temple, right? From which he can see all the kingdoms of the world.
Like it's so, it's, it's, it's, it's a, uh, it's a bold, uh, it's a bold statement.
It's, uh, yeah, I know it's very bold and it's, it's, it's, um, I mean, I, you know,
like I, I talk like I've got any authority at all, but it does talk on any of these things,
but it's like, it just, like to me, I don't know, maybe I'm biased, but it just seems like
definitely it's, it's, uh, it seems like we're getting some mythologizing there, you know, so.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, and, and yes, I mean, Derek talks, he's, he's had tons of, of, uh,
of interviews with Dennis McDonald and, and has a whole course, uh, with Dennis McDonald about,
uh, memesis, uh, and the emulation of, of Greco-Roma myths in the gospels. Uh, it's, it's,
yeah, there's all sorts, there's tons of mythology in there. Uh, and I think people, people miss it
because they're not even sure what they're looking at in the first place. They don't know what they're
looking for. They wouldn't recognize what mythology looks like unless they, you know, unless they
read lots of it. Um, so, and then I also think, I mentioned this before, sometimes I think when,
when Jesus does fantastical things, there, there are stories that are so familiar to us that we're,
we're so deeply ingrained in this literature that we even tend to not, not think of them
as amazing, right? It just didn't, it kind of, sort of, notice, but all right. So, uh, yeah, the, uh,
that test is, so the intention test is like, yeah, it's, it's a thumbs down. Yes. Okay. Ready to move,
move on. The next test is the ability test. So, um, what is the ability test?
So what Strobel says here is that even if the writers intended to reliably record history,
were they able to do so? How could we be sure that the material about Jesus' life and teachings
was well preserved for 30 years before they were finally written down in the Gospels?
So could they, were they in a position to even write this stuff down? Could they have done it?
So, Blomberg likes to, likes to focus on, on the, and one of the, one of the problems
that, that they, they really focus on is the stuff was written down so much later. How can we
be sure they were remembering it all correctly, right? And Blomberg's response is basically, uh,
this, he says, Rabbis became famous for having the entire Old Testament committed to memory. So,
it would have been well within the capability of Jesus' disciples to have committed much more
to memory than appears in all four Gospels put together and to have passed it along accurately.
So he's suggesting that, um, people in antiquity had, um, excellent, excellent, uh, skills of memory.
Um, because, I mean, look, the rabbis were able to, like, memorize the whole Old Testament.
Um, and there's, I mean, there's, there's issues here. So one of the things that, um,
that studies have shown, importantly, is that you, when you read about these feats of vast
verbatim skills of, of memory, um, I believe it was, uh, there's a, there's a famous, uh,
medieval theologian, I believe it was, um, Aquinas is, uh, is renowned for having, like,
an astonishing memory, uh, where he had entire, like just, he had information
in his head to the point where he could, he could recall, like, I read this in this manuscript on
this page and, you know, just repeat it verbatim. Like it's, I read a book about this, uh, in grad
school. It was, it was really phenomenal. Um, importantly, these feats of vast verbatim skills
of memory tend also to be products of literacy. So basically what happens, what, uh, um, what
researchers tell us, uh, or, or what they think is going on is that as you learn to read, you're
developing, you know, pathways within your brain, which aid in the, uh, in the development or, or
aid in your ability then to, to store, uh, information in the same sort of linear textualized
fashion, right? So generally speaking, um, for these, you know, to, to have the kind of
memorization skills that, that Blomberg wants to attribute to the gospel writers, they probably
would have had to have been very highly literate individuals in the first place. Um, studies of
oral cultures show actually substantial malleability. Like when, when, uh, storytellers are passing on
information when they're telling their stories within these, these, uh, uh, non-reading, non-writing,
uh, cultures, these groups, these social groups, um, they will almost every time tell the same story,
but then differently. And no one ever calls them out and say, Hey, you did that differently this
time. Because again, when you're, uh, and it's hard for us to imagine this because all of us are
hyperliterate, right? From, from the time we started school, we were reading basically. Um, so it's
hard for us to imagine this, but, but apparently without that kind of training, uh, without the
develop that, that sort of training, which, which changes, uh, the shape and the chemistry in your
brain, uh, you're going to, you're going to, uh, assess information differently, uh, in such a way
that, that something will be accurate and precise even though, uh, it's totally not. Um, so it's,
it's, it's pretty interesting. There's, um, something I want to share that will, um, that I
think will, um, illustrate this point, um, a little bit. Um, oh my gosh, my stupid, stupid, I hate
websites that make you do stuff. Okay. So let me just show you, let me make you like sign up or
whatever to do, check it all out. So something that I think is, is akin to it. Tell me what you
think is memes. So the word meme was coined by Richard Dawkins in his 1970s, something book,
the selfish gene, that ideas perpetuate like genes. They slowly mutate over time and they
become different. And then when, when, like, you know, you talk to what Gen Z or someone and they'll
be like, you know, I think I made a joke when, uh, Neil and, um, Neil and, uh, and Derek were on the
show. I said, this show is, um, fire on God, no cap. And that meant like this show is good.
Like I'm, I'm saying this, trust me, I'm saying this on like, like, uh, I swear to God, um, no
bullshit. That's what it's saying, right? Yeah. This fire on God, no cap. So that's kind of like
the idea of a meme. It's something that's kind of, it's kind of changed. It's like, and, and, and,
and people can't understand it because they're not in that, that, uh, non Gen Z is kind of the
same because they're not in that zone. So like with memes, you look at these, right? So you've got
all of these things, like all of these like subtle things happening here. So like, you know, this
baby meme, it's like an image, like all already you've got like the language of like, uh, this is
a photograph. So you have to kind of know what photographs are. You have to kind of know what
like a baby looking at the face is. You got to look at like what, what the raised eyebrow means.
You got the bold text, which is like a format, which doesn't necessarily look good, but it's
a classic format from early 2009. There's all this stuff that's coming into this thing to make it a
joke. Same with like this or same with, um, you know, they illustrate points when two clients
want to combine option one and two shorts, you know, it's like, it's, it's, it's, it's classic.
Um, so, but does, but, but so, but this isn't an accurate representation. So when a client will
never ask for a shorts, a shorts, right? They'll never ask for that. This is an, this is an
exaggeration and over emphasized idea. Um, so when I think of like, uh, um, like the gospels
and how they kind of develop over time, I'm wondering how much of that is just essentially
memes ideas that formulate that kind of change that, that, uh, develop theologies. Oh, this must
been from this part of the, the Old Testament must, must have meant this, you know, and like,
again, they're not, not all of them are literate. So they're looking at something and they're seeing,
you know, like the Venn diagram, the conspiracy theorists that, you know, you can jet fuel,
melt steel beams. They'll start looking at things, right? And they'll, and they'll go, well, no. And
then they'll start making conclusions. They will start to develop over time. And by the time you
get to the gospels, you don't have, um, historical narratives. You have these ideas that have changed
so much so that you get a shores. Now does a shark exist? Yes. There's a horse exist. Yes,
but not a shores. Um, and that's what I think that's what I personally think it looks like
is happening with the gospels. I think it's a pretty good analogy. Um, I know, I know some
people, uh, Ermin likes to talk about, um, you know, the danger of, of the telephone game where,
you know, something that's passed on over, you know, a long period of time, the individual
details in what actually happened compared to what actually ends up getting written down
are changed so dramatically that, that the end product looks so different from the first product.
Um, I think, I think there's, there's, there's probably something to that, but I'm not particularly
fond of that as, as an analogy. Um, I, I like, I, because I think the stuff that the stories that
are in the gospels are almost not, you know, all of them are, are almost all of them are, have very
little grounding in any kind of reliable history. Um,
Yeah, I love it. That's good. So, um, yeah, I, I would say this is, you know, it's, it's, they started
as these, these theological word pictures and, um, it, it certainly looks like,
uh, with it, within the stories themselves, um, that they were created and crafted by,
you know, highly sophisticated, highly literate Greek speaking, um,
writers, storytellers. Uh, so, and, and that, I, I have to, uh, just kind of, kind of bring,
bring this home here on a couple of points. So, um, the, the, the idea that, that these were,
were memories that were reliably passed down over time because people just remembered better
in antiquity. That's nonsense. Um, the other, the, importantly, um, the people who, who knew Jesus,
uh, were almost certainly not literate. Um, and this is a, this is an important point on, on a
couple of levels for the, for one thing, they, they wouldn't have been able to write this stuff
down in the first place because they didn't, they, they were not literate. They couldn't read and
write. So, um, uh, there's, there's a book, uh, that was published, I think it's in 2006 by, uh,
Catherine Hatcher, uh, who's an excellent scholar in Germany. She wrote an entire book
on Jewish literacy in Roman Palestine called Jewish Literacy in Roman Palestine. And, uh,
and the book is like over 500 pages dedicated to this, this topic of how we can track
reading and writing in Roman Palestine at the time of Jesus and, and, and what we know of it.
Uh, I'll, I'm just going to read to you, uh, a, a couple of paragraphs from her, from her summary
here, uh, degrees and distribution of literacy. Although the exact literacy rate among ancient
Jews cannot be determined, Mir Bar Alan suggested that the Jewish literacy rate must have been lower
than the literacy rate among Romans in the first century CE seems very plausible. Whether the
average literacy rate amongst Palestinian Jews was only 3% or slightly higher must ultimately
remain open. The question naturally depends on what one understands by literacy. If literacy is
determined as the ability to read documents, letters, and simple literary texts in at least one
language and to write more than one signature oneself, it is quite reasonable to assume that the
Jewish literacy rate was well below the 10 to 15% or the entire population, including women,
which Harris has estimated for Roman society in imperial times. If by literacy, we mean the
ability to read a few words and sentences and to write one's own signature only, Jews probably
came closer to the Roman average rate. Whereas exact numbers can never, can neither be verified
nor falsified and are therefore of little historical value for the following reasons,
the average Jewish literacy rate of whatever degree must be considered to have been lower
than the average Roman rate. The first reason and maybe the most important reason is the largely
rural character of Palestine throughout antiquity. The large majority of Jewish population lived in
the countryside, especially in the villages and small towns of Upper Galilee. Literacy on the one
hand was predominantly an urban phenomenon, since reading and writing skills were mostly needed and
therefore learned and practiced by the elites and the sub elites of the cities. Although cities such
as Sephiris and Tiberias had connections with and influence upon the surrounding countryside, one
may assume that the really literate rarely lived in rural areas except for the one or other rabbi
perhaps. And even rabbis seem to have increasingly moved to the cities and became more urban from
the third century CE onwards. Village dwellers who mostly worked in agriculture as laborers, tenants,
lessees, and small freeholders will have rarely needed writing. If the need arose, they could always
go to the next town or the next city. So if just to summarize, just to point out exactly what she's
saying there is that within Roman culture, it was about 10 to 15 percent of people who were
literate. And by literate, what she means is they could pick up a letter, a simple letter, and read
that, which is totally different than being able to open up something as sophisticated and complicated
as the Gospels, right? Yeah, which is high level. Or like the Hebrew translate, learning from the
Hebrew Bible, and then translate the Aramaic speaking Jesus into Greek. You are picking up
on the second problem I want to raise here. So all the eyewitnesses. What was that book? Yeah, yeah.
What was that book that you just mentioned? It's Catherine, Catherine Hatcher, H-E,
sorry, let me, I always always mix this up, H-E-Z-S-E-R. Jewish Literacy in Roman Palestine
is a phenomenal book, and it is the definitive work on the subject. So I'll put it in the chat
for everyone. Yes, yes, do that. I know you can get a free copy on the internet somewhere, but
no, there's no audio version as well. Damn, cool. Oh, hey, wow. So that's the first important point,
and you picked up on the second important point. All the eyewitnesses to the life
of Jesus were Aramaic speaking Jews, non-literate, Aramaic speaking Jews.
Yeah. The Gospels were written in Greek. They were, and they were composed in Greek. They were not
translated from Aramaic. They were not. I mean, we look at the language and we know this. This is,
this is obvious. These were composed in Greek. Now, there's a problem here whereby even, so if, if we,
we think, let's take Luke, for example, who is often regarded as, you know, the, the highest
level. From the traditional perspective, Luke, the doctor, the physician was the highest educated.
He was highly literate. He was very intelligent. And he went around and he interviewed these people
and then wrote his gospel, right? This is the, this is the traditional view. Now, how does this work?
Does, does Luke, is Luke like fluent, compositionally fluent in Aramaic and in Greek? Because it kind
of has to be in order to make this work. Is he, because, is he interviewing these people who
only speak Aramaic in Aramaic and then translating that into Greek and then, you know, composing his
whole work in Greek? That's a stretch. I mean, just think about it like this. Josephus, who was the,
the, the Jewish diplomat, then general, then turncoat, then historian,
towards the end of the first century, he was fluent, compositionally fluent in,
like, Hebrew, Aramaic, and Greek. So he could do this. But bear in mind, Josephus was like,
part of the upper, upper, upper class of Judean society. I mean, he was, he was a,
he was selected as a diplomat to go and negotiate with the emperor.
Yeah, didn't he, like, prior to the Jewish people,
go people off the cross, like, off, well, he did, yeah, he did stuff like that too. But like,
within, within Jewish culture, like he was, he was the, the, the brightest of the bright.
Right. In order for Luke to have been who, you know, from the traditional
perspective, Christians want him to be, he would have had to have been somebody like Josephus,
which means we probably would have known more about this guy than just, you know, well,
I've got a, my brain, I try to play devil's advocate with every idea that's presented to me. So
I've wouldn't, couldn't this lend credence to the idea that the gospel writers were getting
testimony from eyewitnesses because they're just recalling the information from someone who does
know the Hebrew Bible and is putting these theological ideas into the, right, into the stories
of Jesus. So you've got like the Hebrew Bible, it gives, it gives ideas to the, to the Christians
who are retelling parts of Jesus and the Hebrew Bible and creating these like theologies and then
they're retelling it to Greek speaking writers. You would see, I think you would see more markers
of like conversational Aramaic there. Now, importantly, like, importantly, within some
sections of the text, but they're very, very small. You see, like within individual sentences,
statements that Jesus makes or individual teachings of Jesus or within some of the parables,
you see markers of Aramaic. But I think, I think that, and I think those are, those are
indications that these go back to like this, this early time. And in the process of the transmission
and then translation, some of this stuff survives. But if, if like the whole, if the whole of these
gospels were constructed in that way, you would have, you would see these markers all over the
place and you just don't. Okay. Interesting. So, but this is, and this is why I say there's zero,
zero chance that these were written by eyewitnesses because of the literacy problem and the language
problem are just completely insurmountable. You're forgetting two things. One, it's a miracle.
Two, you're going to have faith.
Oh, so there's, there's, Blomberg finishes up this section with this statement here.
The other idea is, is this, that the kinds of differences and the changes you see within the
text are a result of, of, of the fact that, that it's part of this oral storytelling.
But then he says this, he says, the community would constantly be monitoring what was said
and intervening to make corrections along the way that would preserve the integrity of the message.
He said, and the result would be very different from that of what I mentioned, a childish game
of telephone, where something's transmitted and changes over time, which I think is nonsense.
And the reason is because the changes, the differences between the gospel stories and
then the changes we see within the text are not the results of misunderstandings of what's being
said. Like I pointed out in, in our last stream, right? The changes were made precisely to suit
the needs of the collecting community. So yeah. Oh, yeah. So I'll just say this here. I wrote this
down on my notes. Another problem I have with this whole focus on the reliability of oral
traditions is language. We can detect some of the traditions tracing back to Jesus or the first
Christians on the basis of surviving aramaisms, but the gospels themselves were composed in Greek
by sophisticated and fluid Greek speakers. What happens to Aramaic oral traditions that become
translated, right? This is kind of the point that I'm getting at that you're going to see.
The, they would, they would have a much stronger Aramaic flavor to them if, if they were like,
if they were, were taken whole cloth from like eyewitnesses through interviews,
you know, conducted in Aramaic, or if, you know, Matthew wrote his first, because this is a theory
that Matthew wrote his gospel first out in, in Hebrew or Aramaic, and then it was translated
into Greek scholars say, no, that's nonsense because, you know, we're looking at the Greek
gospel and it definitely wasn't translated from Aramaic. So yeah. But, but that, it's an important
point. But that's, yeah, I think we can move on from that now, unless you have anything else.
No. And I worry that we're not going to get through all of these by the end, which is
some of them are going to go faster than others. Right. Like, like the next one is
the, the character test. Yes. This test looks at whether it was in the character of those
writers to be truthful. So, and Blomberg says, we simply do not have any reasonable evidence to
suggest that they were anything but people of great integrity. I mean, can I just read,
can I just read out my notes here on this point? And then you can see what, so in my notes, I said,
we simply do not have any reasonable evidence to suggest that they were people of great integrity.
It goes both ways, I think. Yeah. Like, it's just, it's just, you just throw it out there,
right? It's an assertion. But also, like, what does, like, even if they had great integrity,
there's so many people who died for that. They were like, you know, I mean, one of the best
tragedies in America was like, people who were so confident in their beliefs, they flew planes
in the buildings. Like, like people's beliefs, you know, you know, it doesn't necessarily mean
they're true. You can really believe something. You can have, you know, anyway, so character test,
great. We've passed that one. Yeah. Okay. Consistency test. Okay. Here, Strobel says,
here's a test that skeptics often charge the Gospels with failing. After all, they aren't
hopelessly, aren't they hopelessly contradictory with each other? Aren't there reconcilable
discrepancies among the various Gospel accounts? If there are, how can anyone trust anything they
say? So what does Blomberg say about this? So here he says, he says this, ironically, Blomberg says,
no, no, this is actually, so this is, this is Strobel responding to something.
Strobel says, ironically, if the Gospels had been identical to each other, word for word,
this would have raised charges that the authors had conspired amongst themselves
to coordinate their stories in advance. And that would cast doubt on them. And this is so stupid.
Do you know why this is so stupid? Yeah, it's like, you can't, this, this is, it's so, it's so,
because it goes both ways. If it was perfect, great. If it's not perfect, great, like, great.
Like, okay, go, go. The thing is, though, so here, the thing is, this is exactly what we have
in Matthew and Luke, who just pull extensively large verbatim material out of Mark.
Yeah, it is exactly the same word for word, because they're copying it.
It's right there. How, how do I not pick that up? Oh man, that is so stupid. It's so stupid.
It's late. It's like a lay of joke. This is something I do want to quickly mention. I mentioned
this in the video that I put out two in the morning last night, when I should have been in bed,
is I, something, imagine yourself as an all powerful, this isn't, this isn't Bible history.
This isn't scholarship. This is theology or logic or something. I don't know what it is. It's my
thoughts. Imagine you have a message for humanity. And imagine this message is so important.
Everything else fails in comparison. You need to get this message out to, to everyone. And
you have all the power of an all powerful, loving, all knowing creator. Would your, like,
would you differ in how you relate this message to everyone? Or would you follow
genuinely what, generally what the God of the Bible has done? Keep in mind, you know,
if I, if I needed to get a message to everyone, I would just tell them, or I would make that
message like known to them as soon as they're born, like they're before they can say anything,
they know that Jesus is the Savior or something. Like, you know, people can still choose to sin.
People still have free will. Like, it's all there still. I don't know why we have to survive on
these like, really, like, if anything, it speaks to its manmade, the God was created in, in our
image, not the other way around. Anyway, what's, we're at 51. This is usually when the alcohol
starts to affect me and I start to go into a rant. Please stop me. So the consistency test,
the consistency test is, is there anything else you want to comment on that?
It's silly. So, I mean, there's, so a couple of things. One of the things that, that they bring
up is, is the, and this is a famous one, the, the, the conflict between the two genealogies
of Jesus. You know, in Matthew chapter one, there's a genealogy of Jesus tracing his lineage back
to David, the, the king of Judah. You talked about this with, with Captain Dabpool last night,
extensively, and he did a great job of, of, of quashing a bunch of, or showing really
some of the huge, huge problems with this. But there's something I wanted to bring up. One of the,
one of the common apologetics is that, well, the reason these, these lineages are different,
these genealogies are different is because one, the, the methion genealogy is, is like
the genealogy of Joseph going back to David. And then the Luke one is actually Mary's genealogy,
which, you know, goes, and it goes past David all the way back to Adam in, in Luke, right?
Which, which is silly, because, like in Luke, which, what's so silly about this, if this is
Mary's lineage, like just take a look, you'll have to pull out your Bible because, because we'll look
at it a couple times. Okay, let's take a look at where is the genealogy I think is in, it's either
in Luke two or three. Is Luke in the New Testament or the Old Testament? It's in the, it's in the
Inter Testament. Okay. So yeah, starting at Luke, Luke 323. Look at what it says here, just in
Luke 323. And yeah, just in Luke 323. Now Jesus himself was about 30 years old when he began
his ministry. He was the son, so it was thought of Joseph, the son of Heli, the son of. But that's
the important part, right? Yeah. So if this is Mary's genealogy, then why does it say that Joseph
was the son of Heli, who is the son of Matat, who is the son of Levi, the son of Melchie going on,
like it's so dumb. Yeah. You see, I would always look at this and go, but it doesn't say it was
Mary's, but it says it's like Joseph. Not at all. Like, yeah. So, I mean, that's a weak, weak source,
weak source. So, okay. Yeah. So that's, that's a, that's a glaring problem. And I think,
yeah, this is what, this is what people will call, it's a scribal error. The main story is here.
This is a scribal error. So number five, unless you have anything left for the consistency test,
okay. No. Number five, the bias test. Okay. So the bias test says,
this analyzes whether the Gospel writers had any biases that would have colored their work.
So, and Strobel actually points, he makes, he makes the point, they were not neutral observers.
They were his devoted followers. Wouldn't that make it likely that they would change things to
make them look good? So Blomberg responds like this, he says, he says, I can see this much. It
creates the potential for this to happen. But on the other hand, people can so honor and respect
someone that it prompts them to record his life with great integrity. That's the way they would
show their love for him. And I think that's what happened here. And then he finishes up and says,
besides, these disciples had nothing to gain, except criticism, ostracism and martyrdom.
They certainly had nothing to win financially. If anything, they would have provided pressure to
keep quiet, to deny Jesus, to downplay him, even to forget they ever met him yet because
of their integrity, they proclaimed what they saw, even when it meant suffering and death.
So I think it sounds like he's kind of leaning into the, leaning into the apostles where martyrs
apologetic here a bit, right? And I don't know if, if I need to say anything, what I would say is
like, apologia does a bunch of work on this. This is kind of one of his hobby horses,
is what happened to the apostles. How many of them do we actually know anything about
beyond, beyond the death of Jesus? And yeah, it's, it's, but this does lead into
the next, the next test, which is an important one. And I have a few things to say about this one.
I just wanted to say that when, you know, apology is coming on,
they drink soon. And I am so excited that I've watched a lot of, I think one of the last things,
like something that when I was looking at evolution and, and like working out if it's true or not,
I remember the upright fossils that really spooked me. I was like, Oh no, like maybe,
maybe I am being deceived by the devil. Like maybe this is all. And you know, and then his video on
upright fossils showing the blatant, blatant dishonesty of how they'll call them one thing
so that all the search results will bring up creation of sources. And then they won't use
the actual terminology that gives you books and books and books on like why there's fossils through,
why there are trees in, you know, in, in, so that was one of the nails in the coffin for me.
But so I apologize. That's that episode I'm looking forward to like crazy. No, it's,
it's going to be awesome. So one more thing, one more thing, just to, to, to bring the point
home with the genealogies. So this idea of, of genealogies in the Bible, like any of them,
being remotely reliable on any level are pretty silly, for very obvious reasons,
when you actually understand the history of what happened. So genealogies, genealogies that extend
back as far as we have, we have good genealogical information, good records of, of heredity and
descent among, you know, the rulers and the high priests in the region. We can track that as far
back as the Babylonian exile. But this isn't something that, that like there's this sort of
people have this, this idea that this is just something that, that Jews were just fanatically,
you know, tracking or preserving or, or maintaining records of their heredity. No, they weren't.
It happened, you know, at the, at the highest levels, like, like it does in, in most of these
cultures where rulers and important officials will, you know, because it's, it's, it's a heredity,
a heredity. These are offices of heredity, right? You become a priest because your father was a
priest, you become the king because your father was the king, these sorts of things. But even these
only go as far back as the Babylonian exile. Prior to that, we have records of kings, which may be
moderately reliable, but that's it for, you know, kings in the northern kingdom of Israel and kings
in the southern kingdom of Judah. But then all this stuff prior to that is invented. It's idealized,
it's made up. And the, I mean, you, you just can't track it back. Nobody's doing this. Nobody's, you
know, think about, think about, like, everyone thinks they're the main character and everyone
else is an NPC, right? Like everyone thinks they're the main character. Think about it, like, think
3,000 years ago, some farmer thinks like this, you know, I am, you know, this world is for me,
like, I, they think they have, they don't have this perspective that like, I need to record
everything I'm doing, because in 4,000 years, people are going to be reading this in a, in,
you know, three languages removed to argue about abortion rights in New York City and, you know,
and, and LGBT issues and who gets to heaven and they're not thinking like that at all. They're
not thinking I should, in fact, that's some of the problems we have with the New Testament is we,
is, is a lot of a good apologetic, I think, of why people didn't write this stuff down. Well,
maybe it's not a good apologetic, but why do you write this stuff down is because they thought Jesus
was coming back very soon. Yeah, why write any of it down? Yeah, like, they couldn't imagine a world
where Jesus didn't come back before they died. So it's like, that's true as well, not 2000 years.
So it's, yeah. So okay, what's next? Cover up test.
Yeah, so we're going to have to, we're going to spend some time here. Okay. Okay.
So Strobel says, just reading from his text, when people testify about the events they saw,
they will often try to protect themselves or others by conveniently forgetting to mention
details that are embarrassing or hard to explain. As a result, this raises uncertainty about the
veracity of their entire testimony. So he asked, he asked Splomburg, did the Gospel writers include
any material that might be embarrassing, or did they cover it up to make themselves look good?
Did they report anything that would be uncomfortable or difficult to explain? So this is the,
this is the criteria, the so-called criteria of embarrassment. There's embarrassing details in
the Gospels, therefore they must be, there must be accurate reports. The common response from an
historical perspective, from an historian to this is, on the one part, these so-called embarrassing
details are embedded within the, within, usually within, within the theme of the story itself
that each individual Gospel author is trying to say. Also, what we might consider embarrassing
we have no idea whether ancient people thought this was, was embarrassing, right? So,
but, Blomburg goes on to, to, to answer it like this. He says, there is a large body of Jesus
teaching called the hard sayings of Jesus. Some of it is very ethically demanding. If I were inventing
a religion to suit my fancy, I probably wouldn't tell myself to be as perfect as my heavenly
author is perfect or define adultery to include lust in my heart. But, I protested, there are
demanding statements in other religions, or, or so, Straubel says there's demanding statements
in other religions as well. And, and Blomburg answers this like this. He says, yes, that's true,
which is why the more persuasive kind of hard sayings are those that could be embarrassing for
what the church wanted to teach about Jesus. So, he wants some examples. So, Blomburg gives
himself, which is great because we can look at these, right? So, he thought a moment, then he
said, for instance, Mark six, five, open your Bible. Mark six, five, yeah. Sorry, I'll stop with that
jerk. That's, that's getting old. It's in the Dead Sea Scrolls. Mark six, five says that Jesus
could do few miracles in Nazareth because the people there had little faith, which seems to limit
Jesus' power. Mark six, five, uh, John Bavir says that God was trying to teach us that it was about
honor and then people needed to honor him in that town and that was a message. So, yeah, anyway.
Okay. So, look at, look at Mark six, five. What does it say? He could not do any miracles there
except lay his hands on a few sick people and heal them. And, uh, he was amazed at their lack of faith.
Right. So, what happens to this story? Uh, when Matthew tells it,
look at, uh, look at Matthew chapter 13, 53.
I haven't done this. I'm excited. 13, 53, 53. I'm actually, you can see, I've actually scribbled
that back from my, back in my church days. I highlighted over that. Uh, cool. When Jesus
had finished these parables, he moved on from there. Come, uh, coming to his hometown, he began
teaching the people in, um, their synagogue and they were amazed. Wait, isn't Nazareth,
did Nazareth have a synagogue? Okay. All right. I don't know. We don't know. Um, where did this man get
this wisdom and these miraculous powers? They asked, isn't this the carpenter's son?
Isn't his mother's name Mary and aren't his brothers James, Joseph, um, Simone and Judas?
Aren't, uh, aren't all of his sisters with us? When then did the man get all,
where then did the man get all of these things? And they took, uh, offensive him.
But Jesus said to them, only in his hometown, in his own house, is a prophet without honor.
And he did not do many miracles there because of their lack of faith.
Okay. So did you catch that? Did you catch what Matthew did with this story?
But I also underlined the word, like back in the day, did not instead of he could not.
Yes. What did it say in Mark? It said he could not. It said he could not, right? Yeah. So Matthew's
looking at the story and goes, this will never do. We have to make it now so that he chose,
he actually chose not to, not to do any of these miracles because, you know,
I, I'm not going to reward these people for their faith, their lack of faith, but there's more, dude.
Look at, look at Luke chapter four versus 16 to 30 here. So Mark definitely says he couldn't,
he could do no money. He couldn't, he couldn't perform miracles. And it's Luke's four, is it?
Luke four, 16. I'll read it. Okay. I'll read this one. Luke four, 16 to 30. When he came to Nazareth,
where he had been brought up, he went to the synagogue on the Sabbath day, as was his custom.
He stood up to read and the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was given to him. He enrolled the scroll
and found a place where it was written. So he reads from the scroll, he rolled the scroll,
gave it back to the attendant and sat down. Then the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on him.
And he began to say to them, today these scriptures have been fulfilled in your hearing.
All spoke well of him and were amazed at the gracious words that came from his mouth. They
said, is this not Joseph's son? He said to them, doubtless, you will quote to me this proverb,
doctor, cure yourself. And I will say, do hear also to your hometown, these things that we have
heard, you did at Capernaum. And he said, truly, I tell you, no prophet is accepted in the prophet's
own town. But the truth is, there were many widows in Israel in the time of Elijah,
when heaven was shut up three years, six months, and there was a severe famine in the land.
Yet Elijah was sent to none of them except a widow at Zeraphah in Sidon. There were also
many lepers in Israel in the time of the prophet Elijah, and none of them were cleansed except
Naaman, the Syrians. When they heard all this, all the synagogue were filled with rage. They
got up and drove them out of the town and led him to the brow of the hill on which the town was
built so that they might hurl them off the cliff. But he passed through the midst and went on his way.
You've got like, he couldn't do no mighty works in our earliest gospel, but you've got like,
he would do not do many mighty works. And then you've got this like giant story about like,
he's like, yeah, exactly. And it's like coming up with excuses. Like even Jesus,
like Elijah couldn't do nothing. That's amazing. Oh, so okay, but there's so much more here.
So Blomberg, and I'm just using Blomberg's examples here. Okay, so that's Mark six, five,
where he says they, you know, they didn't get rid of this story, even though it was bad.
But like, we see what they did, right? So then he brings up this other one in Mark 1332. Okay,
Mark 1332. Blomberg says Jesus said in Mark 1332 that he didn't know the day or the hour of his
return, which seems to limit his omniscience. Okay, so what does he say in Mark 1332?
No one knows about the day or the hour, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son,
but only the Father. Keep going. No, I think that's, that's, that's it. So where is this on my, on my
thing? Oh, maybe I don't have this. No, I don't, I don't, okay, I don't, I don't have this one.
What's the next one? The next one is, he says,
let's see, oh, he talks about, so yeah, he talks about Jesus baptism. Okay.
Yeah. Believe that. He said, this is Blomberg speaking. He says, if I felt free to play fast
and loose with gospel history, it would be much more convenient to just leave out all
that material altogether. And then I would not have to go through the hassle of explaining it.
And he says, Jesus, this baptism is another example. You can, you can explain why Jesus,
who was without sin, allowed himself to be baptized, but why not make things easier by
leaving it out altogether? So what did they do with his baptism? Okay, so let's look at it.
Mark one versus two to eight.
Mark one. Okay. Starting in two, read to verse eight.
Okay, Mark one, it was written in Isaiah the prophet, I will send a messenger ahead of you,
who will prepare your way, a voice calling in the desert, prepare the way of the Lord,
make straight paths for him. And so John came baptizing in the desert region and preaching
a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. The whole Judean countryside and all
the people in Jerusalem went out to him, confessing their sins. They were baptized by him in the Jordan
River. John wore clothing made of camel's hair with a leather belt around his waist,
and he ate locusts and wild honey. And this was his message. After me will come one more powerful
than I, the thongs of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie. I baptize you
with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. Okay, and then is there...
So that was up to verse 50 58.
So what? Up to 58. Oh, sorry. Sorry, where am I? Mark one, three to Mark one, two to...
Oh, sorry. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I got that wrong. So Mark one, two to eight. That's it, right? That's
all that it says. Mark one, two to eight. Let me look at that again. On eight. So yeah, that's it.
It says, in those days, Jesus came from Nazareth a Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan.
And just as he was coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens torn apart and the spirit
descending like a dove on him. And a voice came from heaven, you are my son, the beloved,
with you I am well pleased. And that's it. That's the whole story. So John baptizes Jesus.
Oh, yeah, so verse nine to... Yeah, sorry. That was my fault. Okay, so let's look at... I've got
Matthew. That was Mark one, nine to twelve. Yeah, so the Matthew story of the baptism
is in chapter three, verses one to twelve. Matthew three, one to twelve.
Matthew three. Okay. In those days, John the Baptist came preaching in the desert of Judea
and saying, repent for the kingdom of heaven is near. This is he who was spoken of through the
prophet Isaiah, a voice in one calling in the desert, prepare the way of the Lord,
make straight path for him. John's clothes were made of camel's hair and he had a leather belt
around his waist. His food was locus and wild honey. People went out to him from Jerusalem
and all Judea in the whole region of the Jordan, confessing that this sounds exactly the same,
confessing their sins. They were baptized by him in the Jordan River. But when they saw many of the
Pharisees... Oh, here it gets different. But when they saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming
where they were baptizing, he said to them, you brutal vipers who warned you to flee from
the coming wrath, produce fruit in the keeping with repentance. And do not think you can say to
yourself, we have Abraham as our Father. I tell you that out of these stones, God can raise up
children for Abraham. The axe is already at the root of the trees and every tree that does not
produce good fruit will be cut down and thrown into the fire. I baptize you with water for
repentance, but after me will come one who is more powerful than I, whose sandals I am
not fit to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire and with fire. His
winterwing fork is in his hand and he will clear his threshing floor, gathering with his
wheat into the barn and burning up the chaff with an unquenchable fire. When Jesus came
from Galilee to the Jordan to get baptized by John, but John tried to deter him saying,
I need to be baptized by you. And you do come to me. Jesus replied, let it be so now. It is
proper for us to do this to fulfill the righteousness. Then John consented. As soon as Jesus was
baptized, he went out of the water and at that moment heaven was opened and he saw the Spirit of
God descending like a dove and lighting on him. And a voice from heaven said, this was my son who
I am well policed. So, you know, yeah, it is. I mean, Lomborg's right. Maybe it is a little
embarrassing that John is baptizing Jesus. So yeah, this is why Matthew changes it.
Luke just completely ignores this story. He says, nope, no, not touching that one, right?
But John has a story of Jesus' baptism too, though.
Can you read the John one? Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'll read the John one. I was so excited.
John one, is it? Sorry, it's John, John 119. I've got too many windows here. Okay, John 119.
This is the testimony given by John when the Jews sent priests and Levi's to Jerusalem
to ask him, who are you? He confessed and did not deny, but confessed, I am not the Messiah.
And they asked him, what then? Are you Elijah? He said, I am not. He's not even Elijah in this
story. Are you the prophet? He answered, no. Then they said to him, who are you? Let us have an
answer to those who sent us what to say about you. And he says, I am the voice crying out in the
wilderness, make straight the way of the Lord, as said by the prophet Isaiah. So that's pretty
different too. Now they had been sent from the Pharisees. They asked him, why then are you baptizing
if you're neither the Messiah nor Elijah nor the prophet? John answered, I baptize with water,
among you stands one. So he's already there. John identifies him in this one, right? Among you
stands one whom you do not know, the one who is coming after me. I am not worthy to untie the
thong of his saddle. This took place in Bethany across the Jordan from where John was baptizing.
So the next day, Jesus, he saw Jesus coming towards him and declared, here is the Lamb of God,
who takes away the son of the world. This is he of whom I said after me comes one who ranks ahead
of me because he was before me. I myself did not know him, but I came baptizing with water for
that reason that he might be revealed to Israel. And John testifies, I saw. So, and now John is the
one who testifies, I saw the spirit descending from heaven like a dove and it remained on him.
I myself did not know him, but the one who sent me to baptize with water said to me,
he on whom you see the spirit descend and remain is the one who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.
And I myself have seen him and testify that this is the Son of God. So all these guys are
changing the story precisely because of what Blomberg points out, but there's one more. We
got to do this one more because it's funny. Okay. So then Blomberg also says on the cross,
this is Blomberg, Jesus cried out, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? It would have been
in the self-interest of the writers to omit that because it raises too many questions. So
what happens in the crucifixion narrative? Shall we, shall we take a look? Matthew chapter 27 verse
45. Matthew 27. Yeah. Verse 45. From the sixth hour to verse 50. Okay. Okay. From the sixth hour
to the ninth. What? So yeah. So in, oh, I should look at the, let's, I'll read the Mark
passage first. Oh yeah. Mark 15. So keep it there. I'll read Mark first. Mark 15 33. When it was noon,
darkness came over the whole land until three in the afternoon at three o'clock. Jesus cried out
with a loud voice. Which means my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? When some of the bystanders
heard it, they said, listen, he is calling out for Elijah and someone ran filled a sponge with
sour wine, put it on a stick and gave it to him to drink saying, wait, let's let us see whether
Elijah will come to take it down. Then Jesus gave a loud cry and breathed his last. That's it. And
he's dead. Does it talk about the temple? Yeah. So it says the curtain of the temple was torn into
from top to bottom. Now when the centurion who stopped facing him saw that in this way he breathed
his last, he said, was this truly, was this meant truly God's son or truly this was God's son? So
that's Mark. Mark, Mark. Yeah. So and then Matthew says what? Matthew, from the sixth hour until the
ninth hour of darkness came over the land about the ninth hour, Jesus cried out in a loud voice,
which, whatever, sorry. Yeah, yes, that's it. Which means my God, my God, why have you forsaken
me? When some of those standing there heard this, they said he's calling Elijah. Immediately one of
them ran and got a sponge filled it with wine, vinegar, put it on a stick and offered it to
Jesus to drink. The rest said, now leave him alone. Let's see if Elijah comes and saves him.
And then and when Jesus cried out again in a loud voice, he gave up his spirit.
So I mean, it's very, very close. It's very close. It says at that moment that the curtain in the
temple is starting. In fact, I think this might be one of those places in the text where where
Matthew's basically just copying directly from Mark. Oh, it does say this. Now when the centurion
and those with him who were keeping watch over Jesus saw the, okay, oh,
at that moment, the curtain in the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. The earth shook
and the rocks were split. Oh, the tombs were opened and many of the bodies of the saints who
had fallen asleep were raised. Yeah. And then after his resurrection, they came out of the tombs
and entered the holy city and appeared to many. And then when the centurion and those with him
who were keeping watch over Jesus saw the earthquake and what took place. So all the people
milling about all the dead people, they were terrified and said, truly this man was God's son.
So that's Matthew. Matthew plays with it considerably. Luke 23, 44.
So I've got it here. Luke 23, 44. All right. It was now about the sixth hour and darkness came
over the whole land until the ninth hour, the whole land. Okay. But the sun stopped shining.
Okay. Well, okay. And the curtain of the temple was torn in two. Jesus called out with a loud
voice, Father, into your hands, I commit my spirit. When he had said this, he breathed his last.
The centurion seeing what had happened, praise God and said, surely this was a righteous man.
And when all the people had gathered to witness the sight saw what took place, they beat their
breasts and went away. But all those who knew him, including the women who had followed him from
Galilee stood at a distance watching these things. Yep. So I mean, I think that the key one there
is that Luke completely omitted, Eloi, Eloi, Lama, Sabachthani, my God, my God, why have you forsaken
me? Jesus is telling all of us, I commit my spirit. Yes, I'm going to commit my hand, my spirit
into your. All right. So and then the last one is, and I'll read this one. This is John 19.
So John 19, starting in 28, after this, when Jesus knew that all was now finished,
he said, in order to fulfill scripture, I am thirsty. A jar full of sour wine was standing
there. So they put a sponge full of wine on the branch of his up and held it to his mouth.
When Jesus had received the wine, he said, it is finished. Then he bowed his head,
and then he gave up his spirit. And that's it. And he says something totally different, right?
And so, but like, here's the point. Look back at what Craig Blomberg says.
I felt, if I felt free to play fast and loose with gospel history, it would be much more convenient
to leave out the material altogether or just to change it, right? So this is exactly what's
happening in the examples that he provides. This is exactly what's happening. And it blows my mind
that he doesn't, he either doesn't see this, or he's hoping that nobody else notices this.
Oh my gosh. That's nuts. It's actually nuts. I know. So I just, what does he say? So this
is what he says at the end of this section. He said, here's the point. If they didn't feel free
to leave out stuff, when it would have been convenient and helpful to do so, is it really
plausible to believe that they outright added and fabricated material with no historical basis?
I'd say not. Well, I can't believe. I thought a lot of these would be a bit met, but I feel like
each one of these has been like 100%. It's just like. Gaslighting. Demolished. Yeah,
this is crazy. Like you've demolished every point so far. We got, we have two more. Do you reckon
we have time to go through two more answers? I think they're quick. So the corroboration test,
what do I, I'll just look at my notes. You literally, this is the notes that Kip gave me
for the corroboration test. Just the word. So the corroboration test. See, he says,
I introduced this next test by asking Blomberg, when the Gospels mentioned people, places and events,
do they check out to be correct in cases in which they can be independently verified?
Like Spotted Man in New York City. Town. It's a real town. You know, the names look like their,
you know, first century Jewish names. But we haven't seen Nazareth, have we? We've never
seen Nazareth. So I know, I mean, I think possibly, I think, and I believe, and I believe actually,
the Nazareth dig was, was overseen by a guy at Nyack College.
Where's the B's in the chat? She will know this. She, she posts the most, the best shit I've ever seen.
All right. But, but who is that? D, board. Oh, D, but drew, drew, drew, drew. Yeah. All right.
So, yeah, I mean, that's why I said.
Okay. Let's, the final test. I mean, I don't think we, we don't need to say anything about that,
do we? Yeah, no, no. So the final test is the adverse witness test. Yes. So this test asked the
question, were others present who would have contradicted or corrected the Gospels if they
have been distorted or false? In other words, do we see examples of contemporaries of Jesus complaining
that the Gospel accounts were just plain wrong? And Blomberg says many people had reasons for one
to discredit this movement and would have done so if they could simply, would have done so if they
could have simply told history better. This is what he says. So, and then he goes on, he says,
yeah, look at what opponents did say in later Jewish writings. Jesus is called a sorcerer
led Israel astray. It would have been a perfect opportunity to say something like the Christians
will tell you we worked miracles, but we're here to tell you he didn't. You know, he goes on about
again, the, the embarrassing material about the disciples that they could have, have debunked.
But here's, here's the thing. And this is something that, that lots of people confuse and they conflate.
So we know almost nothing in the first place about Christian persecution in the first century.
And the early church at its emergence was almost indistinguishable from Judaism. So I say this
to say that when, like when Jesus, when people started having experiences, when the claim that
Jesus had risen from the dead first emerged in early Judaism, these were still Jews practicing
Judaism. And I believe on the base of, and this is, this is, you know, within historical critical
scholarship, New Testament scholars by and large will tell you that the message of the early church
was not, it, it was very strongly Judaic. It wasn't something that was, you know, completely,
it wasn't blasphemous. You know, it's not blasphemous to claim someone rose from the dead.
It's not blasphemous to claim that someone is the Messiah.
So in the early stages of the movement, it probably would have been basically indistinguishable
from early Judaism. So anybody who had, there weren't, contrary to what, what Blomberg says,
there weren't, I don't think there were many people early on who were like out to get those
Christians and out to prove it wrong. And then this idea like, like how long, how long after the
events before the movement kind of took hold and started to gain attention, by that point in time,
you know, the idea is, oh, we would just go and point out the tomb or where the body is buried.
Really? Would you? Does anybody even know where that is? We don't know. You know,
most, right? I mean, there's just huge holes in this. Like Paul claims to have been,
Paul says that he was persecuting the church and the picture painted in acts is that he's,
he's part of like the Sanhedrin, which is the ruling body of Judaism within Jerusalem.
And the picture is painted of Paul as like an official in the Sanhedrin who's like sent out
to go and then get rid of those Christians, right? Like, I don't, I don't even think this is,
this is really in keeping, as I mentioned, it's unclear what early Jews would have been
so upset about that they had to go and get rid of the Christians because that early movement was
basically a Jewish movement. It's just another form of Judaism. It seems to me when Paul talks
about being a persecutor of the church, whatever that meant, like, like it kind of sounds like he's,
he's maybe even just a brigand going out and harassing people and beating Christians up and
just of his own accord. You know, I'm doing this because I can't stand these people. I'm not, you
know, I don't believe that he was sent on a mission by the Sanhedrin to do this, right? I don't
think, and this is where, like, this is where this whole point is just, is just hugely, hugely
problematic. Like, it, it's, it's pinning your hopes on this idea of persecution of the early
Christians right away. Like, there's, there's forces who are right away opposed to what
the early church and the disciples are, are teaching. And if that's the case, then surely
they would have produced some evidence to contradict. No, the movement was tiny. It didn't,
it didn't raise much attention at all. It was just like many of the other
dozens of expressions of Judaism at around this time. So it just, it doesn't, this doesn't make
any historical sense. And so for that reason, what, what test is this? This is the adverse
witness test. We have no, we have no testimony from adverse witnesses in the first century.
And, you know, this Christian apologist, Craig Blomberg, look at this and go, oh, look, nobody
had anything. They didn't, they didn't, you know, offer any counter evidence to the claims of Christianity.
No, we don't have any of it because most people probably didn't even know what the claims of
Christianity were in the first place. And those who did, didn't care. Like, all right,
you do you. You're still keeping the, you're still, still keeping the laws of the Torah though,
right? You're still kosher. Yeah, you're still worshiping on the Sabbath. All right, you're good.
Yeah. So, you know,
it blew my mind when I, when I discovered that Pharisees and Sadducees were different sex of
like, yeah, I thought that I thought Pharisees were just like the, like another word for like
super religious Jews and Sadducees were like, here's, here's one of the great misconceptions as
well. Is this idea that the Pharisees were these like super strict, highly anal religious,
this religious group that just came up with this, this ridiculous number of laws. This is,
this is the picture of the Pharisees painted by the gospel writers. The Pharisees were actually a
very, very popular movement in early Judaism. The people loved the Pharisees. Huge numbers of
people joined the Pharisees. And the Pharisees were, because within Judaism, at the time of Jesus,
during, during the Roman period, certainly, the temple in Jerusalem was controlled by the
Sadducees or the Sadducees. And these people were like, in order to be a proper Jew, you have to be
sacrificing in the temple. You have to have all your, your energy and your, your income focused
on fulfilling your religious observance in accordance with, with our prescriptions for what's
going on in the temple, right? The Pharisees said, no, no, no, you can be a Jew anywhere and you
don't have to go to the temple. We'll set up these synagogues where you can actually learn the Torah
and you can come to, to worship and to pray. And this is why they were so popular, right? And
they were a populist group. Like they were, this was like Judaism for everybody, as opposed to Judaism
for only the people who can afford to go to the temple. That's so the opposite of like how it was
taught to me and how Mel Gibson walked my brain. And how the, how the Gospels present it, right?
Yeah, exactly. Yeah. All right, let's get to some super chats. But thank you. That was amazing.
That was absolutely amazing. That was the fun, fun time. Matthew Monger said,
I thought Craig Evans announced the first century Mark Fragment years ago. Please,
please keep, keep explaining this. What's that about?
So it was, it was actually Daniel Wallace who made the first public announcement. So
what my friend and colleague Dr. Mote is alluding to here is that back in 2012,
it was, it was announced publicly that there was actually a copy of a first century
New Testament writing. It actually contained text from Mark dated to the first century.
Daniel Wallace famously in a debate with Bart Ehrman dropped this information.
And then he, he said, I can't give you any more information about it because of
nondisclosure agreements. And because the scholar who's working on it is going to be
publishing it fairly soon, but it's all very hush hush. But I can tell you that one of the best
scholars in the world is working on this text and it's totally legit. We have a first century copy
of a text from the New Testament. Remember what? Yeah, there's none, right?
So 2012, it was said it would come out in 2013. There was nothing,
2014, there was nothing, 2015, there was nothing. We waited and waited and waited and finally,
very quietly, the, the fragment appeared in, I believe it was the last volume published actually
of the, there's a, there's a very, very large collection of papyri that was taken from a place
in Egypt called Oxyrhynchus. It's at the University of Oxford. And so they're, they're
progressively publishing this stuff. And in a volume published in, I think it was 2018 or 2019,
this fragment finally appeared. It didn't come from the first century though. It's a
third century copy of a tiny little bit of, of the Gospel of Mark. But like, Matt brings up
this story because there was this whole fiasco about this. Like, this is something that Christian
apologists were like running around all over the place going, first century mark, first century mark,
we finally have first century, yeah, first century. Everyone was super excited, right?
Is it similar to that new scroll, that new thing everyone's gone nuts about with Israel or something?
At the moment, like you say, well, like we talked about it in chat, it was like the,
it was like really hot for like a good week on YouTube.
Are you talking about the amount of ball inscription?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, similar to that. Except that was, that was even more nonsensical than
this. This was, but there's a, there's a huge, huge story about this. It's a phenomenal story.
I mean, basically the nuts and bolts of this are that the, one of the, the scholars working on
the Oxyrincus collection actually attempted to sell this fragment that he didn't own
to the Museum of the Bible. And so basically he stole it, right? And attempted to, to, to collect
literally millions of dollars for this, this fragment. He got caught.
You know, there's the, his, his work on the fragment, he was just, he was just blowing smoke
and, and, and, and ginning it up as my, as my friend and colleague, Dan McClellan likes to
say, he's just ginning up this, this fragment to, to generate interest in it. And it just, yeah,
it, it turned out to be nothing. So, yeah, but there's a, so there's a people should look and
look into this because it's an amazing story. There's a journalist by the name of Ariel Sabar.
He wrote a long, excellent article all about this in the Atlantic. If you just
Google Ariel Sabar and first century Mark, there's, there's the whole story there and it's,
it's a doozy. It's amazing. All right.
River City Films, Happy Birthday, Big Shorse. Yeah.
That's my boss. Really? That's awesome, man. He said he was, he said he was going to give me
a $1 bonus for every hour I've worked for him. So I'm inside of this week. So I guess that's why
it's 15 bucks. All right. Thank you. So Nari, I'll try and translate this. Thank you for the
chat. Half forward, the Old Testament hackrupt and how severe of a corruption.
Oh, this is a very complicated question and it depends on what time, like what era you're talking
about in the earliest period that we have manuscripts for. This is the, this is like the
second century BCE, maybe as far back as the, the late third century through to, you know,
the destruction of, of Herod's Temple. There are several forms of the text, several forms of text
for the individual books that we possess and there are significant differences through a whole
bunch of them. There's one of the problems here is, is a classification problem. Lots of the
literature is so different. It doesn't even qualify, it doesn't fit our classification criteria as
even copies of, of works. So yeah, it's, I almost don't even know, like I'd have to, we'd have to
take like an hour to talk about this. I talk a little bit about this in my, in the most recent
of the videos in my Dead Sea Scrolls Unapologetically series. The title of the video is,
What is a Biblical Text Anyways? It's Dead Sea Scrolls Unapologetically 1.3. So I recommend you
go and, and check that out. That's it there. What is a Biblical Text Anyways? Yeah, it's the second
one. There it is. That one. Yeah. Not that one. Sorry. But that is, yeah, yeah. That's the series
though. I have a point. Yeah, I recommend everyone go and check out the Kipps channel. You've just
reached 10,000 and 0.1 followers, which is really cool. That's super awesome.
So go check out Dr. Kipps channel. It's, it's obviously full of great stuff.
Thanks man. And your course is in the description as well. And my course is in the description.
Yes. And we will, we, we done, are there more super chats? One more.
Okay. He literally was, cool guy, doesn't look at explosions at Dave Trinks. Thanks, Nitty. That's,
yeah, it's true. I think this is when we're talking is like, when Jesus was just becoming this like,
Sonny's on, like, like, he is the Son of God. Like when we're reading that, that's, that's amazing.
Yeah. Thanks, Nitty. I appreciate it. And thank you everyone for coming out on the, and wishing
me a happy birthday. I really appreciate it. It's, it's, I love hanging out with you guys. So
thank you so much. Yes, Kipp, what were you saying?
No, I was, I was saying that I still have, let's see, several pages of notes.
Yeah. No, no, I think, I think we continue this. Like, I think this is, this has been enjoyable.
I enjoy it. And yeah, me too. I think we, I think we, I'm glad, I think we continue this.
We didn't even get to, I had a bunch of questions written down and I had a bunch of,
we didn't even get to that, but it was, this is great. Next is Manuscript.
So the next episode will be, what is it on the next episode? Manuscripts.
And, and whatever beyond that, like some of the, like, honestly, some of the chapters are just
stupid. Like, there's a chapter titled The Medical Evidence for, for Jesus' resurrection or something.
What is it like? They like see the DNA streams or something? Like, I get it.
It's like, there's stuff that is just not even worth reviewing. So dumb. But I mean,
thank you. Thank you, Matthew. Damn. It's like super late in Norway. It's like the middle of
the night. What the hell is Matt doing up? Something and then he got distracted with it.
But Matthew is going to wait. No, he's in New York, I think, right? Yeah, that's awesome.
That makes sense. Oh, my gosh. Dee's super jealous. Well, thank you. Thank you so much, Dee.
Dee is, oh, she's so lovely. She's always here, always encouraging, always like
dropping good information, like, I, so many of you guys, I love you guys so much. Thank you so much.
But Matthew will be on the channel soon and his channel, when he stops trying to do
everything in his life, he'll have a bit of time and he'll work on,
your work on um his channel but his channel is awesome and I was watching it and I was like man
can I get you on just talk about some of these ideas so uh look forward to that so um yeah all
great stuff um and you know what I was going to wait but also Dee Dee is a um is a writer um for
Atheist Alliance so let me just um let me just drop a link there so we are going to have um
someone on from Atheist Alliance but if you guys want to check out Atheist Alliance I'll just drop
it uh in here because it's some um it's a good website I think uh I think Aaron Adair is wearing
at you in uh he's I'll have some sedge because so he did this on Twitter he was like he was upset
that I called him a poser and then he he he wrote a bunch of uh Chinese or Japanese so I'm pretty sure
oh sorry he's wearing at you
oh sorry guys I did the wrong
oh my god what uh oh Atheist Alliance is a good uh a good website as well but Atheist Republic is
what I was meant to say before oh sorry Dee but yes um I don't know if if Aaron if you're swearing
at me there um I'm going to put that through a text uh translator online and find out um
because um I'll have to swear back at you in a different language
it's no fair you know you know he says it means happy birthday in Chinese
oh well thank you thank you all right I don't know what your beef is with Aaron you always
make up these rumors about him no I know um cool well everyone thanks for coming out
I've got to go back to work now um my boss is going to start um super chatting um like a reduction
in my negative negative super chatting yeah he starts taking money from this yeah but um
thanks Atheist um we will be having someone on from Atheist Republic um soon but I just
wanted to you know Dee's so lovely she's always here so just check out that um Atheist Republic
and we'll see all of you guys another time make sure you get to keep this channel as well
and we'll see you guys soon thanks guys later bye
you
