Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcast, the deepest podcast on the incident.
There is no eternal soul in the Hebrew Bible, none.
When you died, your body would go to the grave.
No heaven, no hell, no eternal bliss or infinite punishment for a finite crime.
Both Christianity and Islam claim to have come from this religious tradition, yet both
are convinced that when we die, our souls will either be rewarded or punished, sometimes
My guest today is Dr. Matthew Philippa Munger, who is the Associate Professor of Near Eastern
Languages and Literature at MF Norwegian School of Theology.
Matthew's main research interests are in the languages and texts of the ancient Near East,
including Akkadian, Hebrew, Syriac, Slash Aramaic, Ethiopic and Arabic, and the intersection
of these texts in these languages.
Matthew is also the Program Director for MF's Bachelor Degree in Theology, Religion and Society.
You may have seen Dr. Matthew Munger as a Panelist on the recent Slavery Panel, and
you will see him again because we are doing another Slavery Panel in Aftermath to make
sure we really nail home some of the apologetics.
So that said, I'd like to welcome my new friend, Dr. Matthew Munger.
Thank you for coming on.
Hey, thanks for having me, David.
First of all, thank you so much for coming on.
And I've already said that, but what are we drinking today?
Yeah, you know, it's 9 a.m. here in Oslo, and I can't drink it work anyway.
So we're just going to go for a brand that, so, and there's actually a good backstory
to using this, too, because, you know, so we're going to do Coke, and sweet.
And so I remember, actually, as a youth, I did this youth with the Mexican thing.
It's like...
YWAM.
YWAM, yeah.
And in YWAM, you know, it's this mission thing.
You're like, I mean, it's really about kids getting discipled or brought into the church
is what it's about.
But, like, you do it in this guise of you're going to go out and save the world.
And one of the things that they use is this idea that Coke has done it.
Coke has reached the ends of the earth.
And so we just need to be like Coke, because it can be in any random village anywhere in
the world.
And there will be a Coke sign, and you can walk in and buy glass bottles or cans of Coke.
And so, like, let's follow the Coke model and just get out there.
So I figure, you know...
Wow, that's a great...
That's great.
Is the idea behind YWAM, I don't know too much about it.
I have been to a few things, but is the idea behind it, like, once we preach the gospel
to all the world, then the end will come?
Like, is it like we're trying to evangelize, evangelize, evangelize?
Yeah, I mean, that's at least the narrative that I was given within it was kind of like
this, we have to fulfill the Great Commission in order to bring Jesus back, because that's
what everybody wants.
It's like the goal was the apocalypse, basically.
So Dr. Kip Davis says, wait, you don't drink at work?
But the official line is that we don't drink at a moth.
A moth, okay.
I actually went along with a youth pastor from our area to YWAM to speak, and I remember
that the...
I wasn't speaking, he was speaking, but I came along with him, and I told him the story
on the way there about how there's no toilet paper in the toilets, because each of the
missionary kids is taught to use, or at least at this base, to have their own toilet paper
and to only use a certain amount, because that's what they have to get to use overseas.
So the first youth pastor went there, no toilet paper, and he had to use his socks, right?
I told this story to the next youth pastor that I was in the car with, and he was like,
oh, okay.
And then he's like, oh, no, I actually need to go to the toilet, and he took his little
notebook in front of the toilet, and if he didn't have that notebook, he'd have to use
his socks as well.
So I don't know what it was about this one YWAM camp that everyone needs to suddenly
go crap themselves, but yeah, this is what happened, and I saved a man from having to
use his socks.
Well, it's just such a weird thing, because one of the first things we had to learn when
we moved to Africa was that there isn't toilet paper in the bathrooms, but there's a little...
It's a little plastic pot, you have water, and you're supposed to use your hand, and
then you wash your hand afterward.
So you use water and your hand, and you...
You kind of give yourself a bidet bath kind of.
Like a 5% of your body bath.
Yeah, so you would clean up after yourself, and then you make sure you wash your hands
really well, and that's just the way it was.
So I think that YWAM-based probably would have had outreach to places where you would
like, if you didn't carry toilet paper all around, you would be stuck, but the better
thing is to learn what locals do, because they don't use toilet paper, they have...
They clean themselves with water after doing their business, and so it's actually better
to learn how to deal with the situation in the way that is most convenient, so by carrying
on toilet paper, you look like such a nerd, like you would walk into a village with a toilet
paper.
It's like one of those European bags that people bring to Europe, whatever, like a little
bum bag with your photo ID, and it's like one of them, but you've got a pouch with
a toilet paper.
Yeah, as we call it in American English, a fanny pack.
A fanny pack, that's right.
So I'm kind of laughing at the conversation, but also I started this conversation by saying
the deepest podcast on the internet, and we're now seven minutes in, and we've talked exclusively
about shitting and how to wipe your ass.
So let's move on, but that's amazing how much of a self-contradicting person I can be.
So my first actual question is, so the problem of the soul in the Old Testament was something
that blew my mind, like I couldn't comprehend the idea that I grew up as a young earth creationist,
so I believe that there was 4,000 years at least before Jesus existed that we had, and
the earth is 6,000 years old, obviously, so I'm guessing I believe that two-thirds of
the time that humanity has existed, there was no idea of heaven or hell, and that was
mind-boggling to me, because I was also convinced that Jesus was coming back like any minute.
So I was like, how can like for two-thirds of the time, because you know, the other argument
as well was that you're always here was like, what's the purpose of life if you just die
and that's it?
This is what all the apologists say, Ken Ham, Ken Tovan, what's the point of life if you
just die and that's it?
Who cares, right, but it's like, well, hang on, God didn't feel to tell us for 4,000 years,
that's interesting.
Why?
Why is that the case?
So my first question with that long preamble was, how did you first come to look at this
question?
Yeah, so I mean, I think I have kind of a similar starting point as you brought up there, like
the, I don't know like that I would, I mean, I guess it's embarrassing to say, but I guess
I was a young Earth creationist as well, like in my earlier years, like I don't like to
think about it like that, because I think I was smarter than that, but I don't think
it was.
Yeah, I wasn't really bought in, but that's just why I think you get it, right, it's kind
of like Adam and Eve and then the flood and all these things and you assume that they're
real.
And so I mean, growing up, that was the kind of stuff that went in.
I read the Bible a lot, learned a lot about the Bible, was good at that kind of stuff,
but was definitely, was definitely more inquisitive, I guess, than a lot of people were willing
to delve into the deeper stuff, to the questions.
And so like, I mean, so it was, you know, it wasn't in vain that we talked about shit,
because I mean, I did, I did go to YWAM Youth with Mission because I was looking for adventure
or whatever, but also because that was like a church sponsored thing.
And then I could find a way to do some fun stuff, but at the same time, to, to keep it
rooted in, you know, in the heart of God or whatever we say, it makes me cringe just saying
it. I felt I vomited a little, actually.
I'm sorry.
There's, there's that thing with the YWAM, there's that thing to where just to circle
back quickly is the, like, you have to ask, I don't know if this was the case with you,
but you have to ask all your friends and family, get essentially to sponsor you to be overseas.
And I remember like so many times, one of my friends who did YWAM, actually the first
guest on this podcast, Colin, he mentioned like, he was like, oh, my friend, I haven't
heard him for 15 years.
He wants to like grab a coffee and then to find out only it was essentially like, hey,
can you be one of my sponsors when I go overseas and have a great time?
Yes.
Yeah. So wait, I mean, I did a lot of fundraising in my church, but the thing is like, yeah,
so I was just too good at the fundraising.
So I got much money, like that I more than covered what, what I needed, right?
But the money's coming in because people kept sending stuff and I'd send a report home
and more money would show up.
And like the church had to give it to me because they had raised it with tax, like tax
benefits for the givers and all that.
And then it has to go to the thing they they raised it for.
And so like, I kept getting my account filled up.
And, you know, like, and there's all that, like, haven't met their goals.
So I was like secretly paying for, like, everybody else's, like, fundraising goals
to be filled up so that people reach out and stuff like that.
So like, I paid for, like, half our team, I think, to be able to go out, like, to Nicaragua.
And but I also, like, on the weekends, like, you know, some people were, like,
eating macaroni in the kitchen, you know, and stuff like that.
And I was out, like, having restaurant meals.
So your mission work was, like, pretty like, you're, like, kicking it for some of it.
I mean, so it was this weird thing, like, because you're living, like, you know,
out of handouts and stuff like that.
But at the same time, like, you know, you're eating better than, like,
the people at home, it was kind of, it's weird looking back on it.
But but, like, that was, so I mean, I met this girl.
I mean, I met my wife there.
So that was like, it was a good thing.
But she she's Norwegian.
And that's literally why I live in Norway now.
But she was in ministry school already in Norway.
And so, like, she wasn't really interested in moving to the US.
She had just wanted to take a break in in Hawaii.
So we pretty quickly found out that we wanted to be together.
So I moved over to Norway.
And the easiest way to get in was just to go to the school where she she was
studying, which is a theological theological institution.
And and it's where I work now, actually.
And so, like, she was doing her ministry degree here.
And and at that time, so I moved, like, yeah, as I moved in 2002,
so right after 9 11, we were doing the process of trying to get visas and stuff
worked out. And so things were still pretty lax back then.
And so, like, the the institution was like, sure, he can he can he can come
and study here, but he'd need a he'd need a visa.
And the the the, you know, the Department of Immigration was like,
well, yeah, if you give him a spot, that's fine, then we'll give him a visa.
But then he needs a language course.
And so they contacted the University of Oslo.
And they're like, yeah, we'll give him a language course.
If you give him a spot at your school when you give him a visa.
And they're like, oh, wait, but he has to have funding, so we need a bank.
And so the bank was like, yeah, sure, if you guys give him that and give him
that and give him that, then we'll give him a bank account.
And and like, everybody got on a conference call, like in old fashioned,
like everybody had a bow and they just all said.
So if you say yes, well, and we'll just go around the circle and everybody
say yes, and then we'll just approve his stuff.
And they did.
And so I got all this approved.
And but then I had to study theology and and like, and like European
studying theology is different than going to Bible college, right?
It's like it's a full blown, multi, multi disciplinary thing where you do.
Yeah, you do biblical studies.
You do systematic theology.
You do practical theology.
You do church history, like you do this kind of full blown thing.
And and even though this is a fairly conservative university or it was,
especially traditionally, like still it's within the academic study
of theology, not a Bible school thing.
There's this is something we should actually touch on because a lot of my
my friends that I guess are still like are still they're in church.
I won't say still, but they're they're they're at church.
They will often not know the difference between, I guess, theology
and his and like church history or the historical method.
Can you touch a little bit about like the difference between theology and like
because I because often I see and you can correct me if I'm wrong.
Often I see is like theology is like a way that we try to make observations
about or try to explain characteristics of God.
It's like it's already assuming the premise, you know, you will never
like find a theological theological reason, I guess, not to believe in God.
It'll just be reasons that we can fit things together where where the parts
that I became more interested in recently is like, did the Exodus really happen?
Like, is that a historical event?
And like, if it wasn't a historical event, why are these stories written down?
They're taken from other, you know, ideas and things like that.
And we will be talking about that soon on on Patreon, just a little wink, wink.
But anyway, could you could you tell us a little bit about that?
Like the difference between theology and like history?
Yeah, well, so I think the word theology gets used in like at least three different
ways, probably a lot more.
But like we generally use it like in in three different ways.
And one way is kind of what I was describing.
Like it's the like theology is this, I guess it's probably comes from the
German tradition, but it's the European tradition, whatever, that theology is
this kind of all encompassing thing you do when you study Christianity.
It is that it's like you've got the all the different ways of thinking
about God or trying to get to God or talk about God.
And so you have to learn about that the history of God is part of that.
So it's like then you have both in biblical studies or in the church
history, the way God is whatever, then you also have systematic theology,
which is more philosophical thinking about how you make the ideas of God
work together, whatever.
And practical theology is how to do church, you know, how to do
ministry, things like that.
So it's like this big idea that all of the things that are related to
God, the nests in the Christian tradition, you just call theology.
And then you could also then make a separate branch to what you would
call like Muslim theology or Islamic theology or Hindu theology or Buddhist
theology, whatever, like you can ways that people do these things.
So that's like one way we use theology, but then the more like specific
way that people use theology then is like the things where you're trying
to talk about God within those things.
So like, how do we think about God, talk about God?
And in that case, I do know atheist theologians.
Like you can be an atheist theologian where you, I mean, in the German
databases, I'm listed as a theologian, right?
And so I would be an atheist theologian because I can discuss with you
theological principles, like we can talk about atonement and we can talk about
whether or not it is a logical conclusion that by having a man that claims
to be the son of God or God or whatever, dies, whether that is then
something that could be on behalf of a good God or whatever.
And, you know, then you're talking about the ideas of theological doctrines,
but you can reach very different conclusions.
And so you can have a, you can be a theologian and work with theology and
end up coming to the conclusion that the arguments for the God or for
the doctrine aren't convincing.
And then there's a third way that we talk about theology, which is
methodological.
And then that's where we really get into the difference in the way people do
stuff.
And that's, I think, at the core of what we're going to talk about today,
because like if you are working theologically with texts, you're going
to be trying to come to a conclusion that supports or at least gives you
evidence for the doctrines or the theologies that you want to have.
And they're generally prescriptive in nature.
And so you would say, OK, so is there an immortal soul?
Let's just begin there.
And you would say, well, certainly, if we're going to end up with Jesus,
then there must be.
If there's going to be a heaven and a hell eternally, there must be an
eternal soul.
Therefore, we look at the Old Testament and we'll find the places where it's
ambiguous and say, there it is.
There's the evidence.
Yeah.
And then it will say that then you should use this information to believe in
Jesus and do his thing.
That's kind of a theological whereas a historical method would say what are the
texts saying in their original contexts?
Yeah.
And so then we would say, OK, there definitely can be a change in context
and a change in theology over time where you can say, OK, it seems like Jesus
is more or Paul at least seems more optimistic about the division between
the body and the soul and the body and the spirit.
And maybe there's some stuff there.
Definitely in the early church, they're very keen on the eternal soul.
It shows up like so.
So we see there must be something.
But as we look back on the Old Testament, like, well, there's there's less
evidence for it.
And then we need to be asking, well, why would we assume it?
How can we break down through the language barrier of ancient languages,
ancient concepts?
How can we study this?
And then we can just accept the conclusions that we come to as as being
the best answer we can give right now.
And then with a historical method, then when new evidence comes to light,
you can reevaluate it and you can then ask the question, what do we now know?
And so it's a very methodological thing.
Something you said there really kind of rang true for me, because when I was
in ministry college, I did a year of ministry college certificate for nothing,
nothing amazing.
But the they would always say that you need to look at the Old Testament
through the lens of the New Testament.
There is no looking at the Old Testament without looking through the because
otherwise they actually said it'll cause you issues and problems and everything.
Right.
Right.
And that's what I would call a theological method.
Yeah.
And so like what I when I teach when I teach students intro to the Bible, like,
that's one of the things that I like that I the first day I go through is
the difference between doing it theologically and doing it historically.
And so and what I tell the students is that I will throw things at them if
they mentioned Jesus when we're talking about the Old Testament that it's like
and because and then and then like and then we'll go through and talk
about different methods and things like that.
And then we get to this thing that I call reception history and I'll say,
okay, when we get there, you can talk about Jesus.
I okay, it's fine.
Like, but, but let's, let's look at it historically first.
And then sure, like, I know that many of them are theologically oriented and
they're Christians and they want to read it that way.
And it's like, okay, fine, but let's start with, let's start with reading it historically.
And then if you're going to use it through the lens of the New Testament,
at least you know that you're looking at something that is changing shape because
of the lens, but you're not thinking that the lens is giving you a clearer view,
but it's actually the view.
That's actually a good way of looking at it.
It's distorting the view rather than yeah, it's like a sex cellophane makes
everything a different color, right?
Yep.
I mean, Paul said it.
He said now we, we see as though what foggy in the mirror and and then we'll
see in sometime we'll see clearly like, I'm not good at the New Testament.
Sorry.
Paul has that.
Yeah, they, I've not, I'm not, I'm not either.
And so I can't actually pinpoint where you're talking about.
We should actually do one time we should do, I don't know if you can ever drink
on this podcast, but if you could ever drink in this podcast, we should do what
Kip did when Kip came on and drink straight, straight alcohol.
And we'll do a theological happy hour where it's just, I just throw like a tone,
like questions about atonement and like hard problems in theology.
And we just, we just beef it out for an hour and a half.
Any time.
I will definitely, I will just, we'll just have to do it at a different time of
the day.
It's not nine in the morning for you.
Yeah.
I'll just come out and drink.
So we have to find a way to find a way to go to the rest.
I have to be, yeah, I'll have to be over the weekend.
So, um, so how, so how did you first come across this problem?
This, uh, this, this.
So when I, when I started studying here in Norway, cause I, I mean, obviously I
ended up in Norway and they, um, first I had to do a year of, of Norwegian studies
so that I could go to the Norwegian school of theology.
You know, it's kind of important.
And, uh, and one of the, so the first year is kind of this intro to all the
theological disciplines.
You do all this stuff.
You have some Bible and some theology and stuff like that.
And, uh, and then the second year you start on this, like, yeah, that's just
the, the system in Norway is kind of, you do everything and then you do a little
more specifically, and then you get into even more details on the top.
It's just, it's a, like when you study theology, you
have like five, six years of theology, that's it.
Um, and, and so in the second year we had a course that was, that was on, um,
anthropology and the Bible.
So like the, the ideas of, of man, what is, what is man in the Bible?
And, and for that, then you had to pick a topic to, to write about and, and
basically, um, you get a list of the different words in Hebrew or Greek that
are, that are in, you know, that reflect different parts or different
ideas of, of man in, in the Bible.
And you just write about one.
And so the word that I went for is the Hebrew word, nephish, um, which, uh,
which is generally in modern Bibles is the one that would be translated as soul.
And, uh, and so by, um, by picking that, I just thought I was just going to be
kind of sail through because that was a word that's used like 700 times or
something.
I was like, there's plenty of stuff.
And, and for me, I think going into it, my thought was just like, and obviously
I'm, I'm just going to talk about where our soul cries out to God and things
like that.
And, and I'll, and I'll be, yeah, I, I, I don't think I even thought very much
about it.
I just figured it was a, it was an easy thing.
And then I started reading and, and the, um, the first thing I read, you know,
says the, the idea of, of an eternal soul in the Old Testament is highly
problematic.
And I'm like, what?
Like what, what does that even mean?
Like that it's highly problematic because I have an eternal soul, right?
That's the, I mean, I am Christian.
I will live forever.
That was the, uh, yeah.
And so it was just this weird thing.
And then when you start to work through the literature, um, it, it becomes a
parent that we, um, yeah, we've been reading a lot through the lens of the,
of the New Testament of Christian theology, really, even more than the
New Testament, the New Testament is still a little iffy on the whole thing.
But like the basic thing is that the consensus, um, is that there's, there's
a very strong connection between the idea of the soul and the body in, in, in
the Hebrew Bible, uh, like the, the body is the thing.
Um, and then we, as we, um, you know, I'll go into more detail here in a minute,
but like, because I'm just kind of seeing that, that when you start to look
up all these verses where things are described, like the connection of what
happens to you when you're dead, where does the, what happens to your body and
things, and all this kind of stuff, it's like, actually the body is, is where
it at, where it's at.
Um, and, and then you kind of go and look and say, okay, well, but surely
it's in the New Testament.
And then you realize that in the New Testament, all the, they really talk
about is the resurrection of the body and this really big thing in the
New Testament is, is the resurrection of the body.
And then it made me think, oh crap, maybe it's, maybe there is something there.
And so I start going into the details of this, of what, what the soul is.
And, um, and you find out that, that this word doesn't mean soul, like
nefesh, it's only soul if we define what a soul is in a certain way.
It's like, if you, is it like retro fitting it, like retroactively fitting
yourself retro fitting it by saying that what, like, so, so when we think
of a soul, what we think of is some kind of completely separate entity that
inhabits us for a bit.
And, and, and in that sense, you can find that, um, there are some similar
ideas in the Hebrew Bible that there is, that they're, that you're not, um,
you're not just body, you're not just flesh, but the question of whether
that thing is pre-existent or post-existent is, is completely different.
Does it last, does it, does it exist before you and will it last forever?
And, and then there are just so many clear texts in the Hebrew Bible that,
that say that death is the end.
And, and that's what then hit me hardest, I think, was understanding that, like,
there is not an eternal life, but there is eternal death.
It's, even when you say that, it's like, it's, it's kind of the, the, the, um,
oh geez, I don't know, I'm getting a little emotional.
It's kind of weird, but it's, um, even as you say that, it's like, that's
kind of the battle cry about essentially like a big reason why I do this podcast,
because I think that ideas like this, uh, need to be kind of
explored by people.
Um, but also like, you know, uh, of, of, you know, big ideas, deep, deep
ideas, because I truly came to realize, like, well, I actually came to be
convinced, I will say, that this is probably our one and only life.
And that's it when we die and, uh, and to, to, to, you know, don't sweat the
small stuff, live your best life, think deeply, eat delicious food, drink,
wine, but not too much, you know, like, live your best life, you know,
live your drink, right?
Like to, to really like get the most out of life and to be fascinated and
amazed and, um, and at all at what we find here in this existence.
Um, yep.
But, uh, because yeah, like the idea that a lot of people, like, kind of
hearing this will be like, you know, it's, it's confrontational, uh, to, to
hear the idea that we might not exist forever, that we might not see our
loved ones again and things like that.
And then there's probably another group of people who are watching this and
thinking and being, and feeling relieved.
Oh, you know, I, I'm glad, like, I, eternally of anything would be horrible.
Um, yeah, because otherwise you, it wouldn't be you.
Like it would be some pseudo you that can enjoy the same thing over and over and
over and over again.
Like it, yeah, I'm, I'm glad that I've got my time.
And then, you know, I, I, I, I stay alive in the memories of our loved ones.
Like, so it's, it's, it's a really, this topic is, is big and it's, it's, it's
bigger than what it looks like on surface, um, on the surface.
Yeah.
And, and I think you're exactly right about that.
That I mean, for me, it was a relief to realize, like, oh, but if, if there's,
uh, if it's just eternal rest or death or whatever you want to say, like then,
then I have motivation to, to have a good life.
Yeah.
Whereas like the, the kind of Christianity I grew up with kind of said, you need to
have a shit life so that you can have a good life.
Right.
And, and it was, it was this kind of martyrdom, um, like complex, this, this
suffering complex that, that this brand, this kind of Christianity has that, that
really affected me and made me think like, I shouldn't, I shouldn't want too much.
Yeah.
So I, I just, I went and saw the, the movie women talking the other day.
It's, uh, it's, it's a movie that's, that's just come out recently about, um, it's,
it's, it's kind of based on idea of a, of a, of a true story, but it's not really
a true story.
So it's kind of based on loosely on things that could have happened or something.
But, but it's Mennonite women living in a Mennonite colony where, where they're, um,
like sexually abused and then they're trying to decide whether or not they'll
leave the colony and, and try to make it on their own.
And, um, and, and, and there's just this one scene that, I mean, because so much
of it rings true to me as the dialogue in the Mennonite world that I grew up in,
in this religious world that, um, that, that kind of limits what you're allowed
to think is, is the way you act in the world.
And, and one of the things, the scenes is where there's, um, this, this one,
one of the girls is saying, you know, I want, I want this and I want that and
want that.
And, and this, and one of the older people says, I want the older lady says,
well, want less.
And, and like that is kind of what I felt like was the church's tone,
the Mennonite church's tone is, um, is like, want less.
Like if you start to think that you could have more, that you could be more,
you could do more, think less of yourself.
Like, don't, don't think you're going to enjoy life.
Yeah.
It's, it's like, um, that limits you just so much, um, especially growing up
like that.
Um, and so to find out that you, you're just going to be asleep for eternity.
It's like, yeah.
Well, it'll be very similar to how it was before you, you know, existed.
It probably will be, be very similar to that.
Um, for 30, yeah, I have no recollection of it.
Yeah.
Or, or, uh, you know, you go to the same place that a flame goes when you blow
out a candle, you know, like that, that's, it's, um, and, and, and let me tell
you, like, let me tell the audience, I should say, is people, you need to go
to, um, Derek, MythVision's channel and check out your full story.
Because like, I, I almost, like, this never happens.
Like I'm not, even though I've got to mention before, but I almost tear it
up like hearing the stories about what you, what you guys went through.
It's, it's incredible.
Um, go over to MythVision and check it out.
I'm sure a lot of you are from MythVision.
Uh, but, but, um, there's, there's some parts in that, that, that, I was
wondering if you could give us like a bit of a, bit of a, like tell a little
bit of your background, because you went through a lot, like you were in the
mission field hearing you really, like if there's, if there's someone who, you
know, really felt like they had to like, you know, put in everything to get, not
to be, I guess, rewarded in heaven, but it's like, it's like, it's like treating
life as like a dormant that we wipe our feet on, but not, not in a, in a, um, in
a way, but you're trying to help other people, but you're not.
But it's like, it's not, this life is so, it's nothing.
It's nothing in this life, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, I think that, well, I mean, it's, you know, I think that's, it's, it's just
so hard to, to make, to make it clear looking back, like where, where I was.
But, but like we, I fully believed it.
And, and I didn't go into the mission field, leave for Mali, West Africa, you know,
a few hours down the road from Timbuktu, literally, like to, because, because I hated
myself or because I, uh, just thought the only way that I can do anything is to do
good works or something.
Like I was a committed Christian and I believed that when Jesus had sell everything,
give it to the poor, follow me, that that's what I was doing.
Like, I really thought I was living out the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Like that was, that's what I did.
And we actually literally did it.
Like we sold our stuff.
Yeah, you sold, you actually sold.
Like we literally sold our stuff.
And, and we sold your house, everything, literally sold our house, sold our car.
And, and then, and moved like to, to, to Africa and used our savings to survive there.
Like, I mean, we were getting, you know, a very modest salary from the, from the mission,
you know, to, to live on, but it didn't cover everything, you know, and we had three kids
and we needed to take care of and, and it, so we, yeah, we, we did.
And we helped people and we had like, yeah, we had interactions with people that, that
obviously we were trying to help.
And we, we, we did it.
And we truly believe that's was, was what God wanted for us and that we were doing that,
not to enrich ourselves, but because we were standing in the, in the, in the faith and doing,
doing what we're supposed to.
So I think like it's, it's pretty easy for me to, to just kind of like say,
Oh God, I was so stupid.
Or I see now like the religion had done this to me or whatever.
But like I, when I was in it, I was fully in it.
And there was like looking back on, I can say like, yeah, I think I went to those extremes
because I was really trying to, I was really trying to fulfill what was asked of me.
And, and for me, there was just like, there was no way of thinking,
let's, let's say we're fully committed and then not sell everything and follow Jesus.
Like it just seemed like such a hypocritical thing to do for me.
Because I had the opportunity, right?
Because I had, I, because I was, I was able to do the thing they wanted.
Like they wanted me to go and translate the Bible into this language.
And I happened to know the Bible pretty well and Hebrew pretty well and, and know the language.
And I was a linguist and I was a theologian.
And it's like, I literally, I couldn't imagine somebody more qualified to do the job they wanted
me to do.
And, and so I was like, yeah, of course, that's, that's, that's, that's my thing.
So I'll do it.
And so it was like, I interpreted all that as God having a plan for my whole life and, and
leading me through everything.
And so I really went like all in.
And so from, from me, that was, that was something that led me to a place where,
where it could go that wrong as, as it ended up being like, and this was one of those things
that like we, when we were in Africa, obviously things went horribly, horribly wrong.
Like, I mean, we came to, to Mali at the absolute worst possible time you could have come
when, when the Libya war had been going on for a little while.
And what it meant was that the, the place in North Africa where the, the,
yeah, it's the, it's the al Qaeda and the, in the, in West Africa had, had been kind of housed
and staying, they were kind of forced out because of the war, because then like Gaddafi
wasn't protecting him anymore.
And there was all these arms that were now available.
And they had like apparently raided different like armories and stuff.
And, but then moved into Mali, into Northern Mali, where it's kind of a lawless state anyway.
And they just kind of kept coming further and further south.
And, and that's where we lived.
Like we lived in like the northern most outpost that was supposed to be safe.
And, and it was just like a really, really stupid place to be with a small family.
Like it was like we, so, and I mean, this is one of those things that we,
like I look back on and think like, why, why didn't it ring any bells?
Like, but like we, like we had the, the French foreign legions stationed in town, right?
And, and so there was this big base and they would be out.
You would run into them occasionally.
And like we saw them at the pool and stuff and they would, they got to know me.
And, and like assumed that I was US military or military intelligence or something.
And I kept saying, I'm, I'm a Bible translator.
And they're like, okay.
Like, and they're like, kind of strange that you brought your family, you know,
but okay, whatever.
And like, and then they would talk to me as though I had like information
and, and they must have thought I was really, really, really good because I never gave them anything.
But, but like, but also like once I was out running, because I would, I would run.
I'm a runner and, and I would go out in the desert and run, which was like one of my favorite
things, like just like you feel like, I mean, there's, there's this crazy feeling of being
out in the desert right, right in the, in the evening, when the sun's starting to go down.
And, and you're just kind of out there, the sun is giant as it sets over the horizon.
And you're, you're just like, you're, you feel like you're a million miles away from where
you grew up.
And so it was like this kind of magical thing.
But like a couple of times I came across the French military doing target practice
or doing different things.
And, and so one time I came running up and turned around this corner and there was a,
there was a big like a Humvee with a, with, with gunners on it and everything.
And, and, and the guy who looks at me is like, starts talking to me in French.
I just stopped there and, and I was like, oh, hey guys, what's going on?
I'm just trying to like, and they're like, like, oh, just out running, are you?
And I'm like, yeah, yeah, I just got to stay in shape, you know?
And, and then the, the guys like something, you're a bit hot, a bit far from home, aren't you?
And I was like, do you know where I live?
And he's like, of course.
And then like, it hit me like, oh yeah, like we're one of like four Western families in this town.
And like, of course the French foreign legion knows exactly where I'm going to be.
Like, like, yeah.
You, when your, your children were in school and there was a terrorist attack on the school.
Yeah. Well, I mean, it wasn't, I wouldn't call it a terrorist attack, but it was definitely.
Oh, sorry.
Yeah, it was, it was, it was, but it was a, it was a,
a mob riot, that was a student demonstration or kind of a young people's demonstration that,
that just mounted based on frustrations about working with the French and the,
and like the way French intervention in Mali has gone.
There's a lot of animosity by the, obviously because of colonialism and all that kind of things.
And, and so like the French school in town was the obvious place they would end up,
kind of exerting their frustrations.
And yeah, so it was, it was pretty wild.
Like the, the way the students went up and they circled, like they encircled the school and
like, I, I wasn't allowed to go up and get the kids.
I had to, I kind of stay behind because it was, it was too dangerous for us to go out there.
But because this was like the, the, the school for the better educated people in town, I guess,
a lot of the generals in the military, like in the Mali and military had their children there as well.
And so like as soon as this started happening, they locked down the school and called the military.
And so they did.
They came like the full on Mali and military came and surrounded the school.
And I, and apparently there was some, yeah, some violence connected to it.
But so the kids were, were, were physically fine.
But emotionally, I think we're, we're still waiting to see the worst of the damage from that.
And, and that's, and that's like kind of one of those things that, that we,
that we've reflected a lot on afterward is both our, our fear and our, our experiences
and the kids, you know, fear and experiences and pain and stuff like that.
And the way that everybody kept telling us, God protected you.
God protected the children.
God protected you all from all damage.
You, you weren't murdered.
Like when our, when, like there was, there was an attack in the town when we, right after we left and our,
so our director, African director was, was like in his home when there was this
like mass, like terraces.
This was a full on terrorist attack.
And like it was in his backyard, like in the, in the hotel right behind his fence.
And so they had to like lay and cover for, for a couple of days.
And it was like, it was really bad.
And, and he, you know, like still the whole narrative was like, God protected us.
God protected everybody.
And, and then when you realize how damaged we are emotionally from this kind of stuff,
and it's like, oh my God, like we were not protected.
Like you're, you're not protected emotionally.
You didn't, you didn't get out of it.
Okay.
Unscathed emotionally.
And, and so that is just.
You got to look, people can go and talk and watch your amazing interview on Derek's
channel because it's, it's, it's, and you really should because like, I'm just like,
I could sit here and just, I'm just blown away by your story.
You got to ask to go back to the mission field.
Like you're like, Hey, I'm, you know, and, and the church was kind of like, well,
you're kind of perfect for the role.
Like, you know, God will protect you and, and it's just, it's incredible.
Um, yeah, you, you, but it's an amazing story.
Everyone go check it out.
But we will, let's, let's, let's just circle back around to, um, the, um, the topic at hand.
Before we do that, I got a couple of things.
One skeptics and scoundrels said, my brother did this twice.
So he sold everything because he thought God was directing him to simplify and move to where he
needed, uh, uh, the need was greater.
Both times he ended up back at the same location where he started having to rebuild over again.
It's, it's, it's, it's, yeah, it's, um, it's crazy.
And, um, yeah, I just think about how many times like the will of God,
like the will of God was always a big thing for me.
Like, am I following the will of God?
And like, and I remember feeling really guilty going to film school because I was wondering,
is it the will of, like, is it the will of God?
Like, you know, I should have been in ministry, you know, um, so, uh,
you've got an amazing YouTube channel.
Let's just blown up the Bible was written backwards.
You can go at Bible monger and check it out.
Links in the description.
Your videos, like I have, so I'm on my other account at the moment,
but I have watched these videos, at least most of them when I get time, really good stuff,
really educational, really awesome.
You also have a website, um, people can check out, uh,
and you will be coming back on deep drinks in a, um, well, it was like a week, a week away,
but we've got the second 10 days away.
We have a second episode of the slavery panel.
And this time we're going to be just dealing with apologetics.
It's going to be much lower key, much less work for all of us.
But it's going to be really good.
Um, it's just, just responding to the apologetics, getting through that document.
And we've had a few people kind of, uh, uh, kind of, um, make videos, which have been,
I guess, good, good comedy, I guess, um, for, for us on the group chat.
But, um, yes, it's going to be a good episode.
So if you are new here, um, this is a place where I have deep conversations with people
over a drink of their choice.
So make sure you subscribe if you like content like this,
because we have some more awesome stuff coming up.
Um, so Dr. Matt, Dr. Matt, Dr. Matthew.
Yeah, I'm not going to be a doctor.
I'm not, uh, I'm, I'm just, I'm just whatever you want me to be, man.
Okay.
Well, um, well, I was going to, I'll save it for when I'm in drink,
another episode when we're drinking.
I had some inappropriate jokes there, but let's go with, um,
so you've got a, some slides you want to show us.
Yeah, let's, let's walk through a little bit of the, of the what,
so what I mean when we talk about, um, whether or not there is, uh,
there is a soul or what we want to do with it.
So, um, the, the, the main thing is that when we, when we do this kind of thing,
like you, you have to remember that the Bible isn't a singular entity that was
written at one time by one person or, and it's not, um, so, and I,
obviously then it's not inspired by a singularity that always then, um,
gives you exactly the same meaning for the every word and always the theology is,
is consistent.
I mean, that's the, this is very, I think, uh, for me, this is very obvious when
you read the Bible, because there's so many things that, that just like,
you have to really work hard to make them make sense together.
And so, like, what, what my interest is then is seeing how different things come
to light when we, when we look at things in different ways.
And so then we like, what, one of the things that we do when we look for this
soul, like, so basically there's, there's, you would ask what concepts could be
there that we would consider a soul, uh, what is being translated as soul.
And, um, basically there are, there are only a couple of things that could be
conceived as that in, in Hebrew, in the Hebrew Bible.
And, and one of them is what is traditionally, um, translated as a spirit or,
or something which is in Hebrew, which, which really means like wind or, um, yeah,
or breath or spirit.
And, and this is what is in like Genesis one, uh, two, where like the, the spirit of
God was over the waters and things like that.
It's probably means more like the wind of God or the, the moving air of God or
something.
I don't know.
Um, but so you would have this kind of spirit thing that, that, that is in some
texts.
And then, um, you could ask, well, is that what a soul is?
And, and then think, well, it seems that that is more like the, that's more like
spirit than soul in a way.
I'm not sure I know the difference between the soul and the spirit, but you know,
there's some, something there.
But then there's another term, which is the, the term nephish, um, which is the term
that is used in the creation of, of mankind.
And so I think that's where we should kind of start to look at it.
And so this verse here from Genesis two, um, is, is describing the creation of, of, of
man.
So the first man, so the Lord God formed man from the dust of the ground or the dust,
the clay of the dust of the clay or whatever the soil of the earth and breathed into his
nostrils, the breath of life and the man became a living being.
And the word that is used here is the word nephish, which is the word for soul.
So the man being clay after being breathed into becomes a living soul.
If we use that translation, it becomes a living soul.
Okay.
And, and this is, this is one of those important things because what we see is there are,
basically there's two elements to, to the man here.
It's the ground that he comes from and the breath of life that comes from God.
And these two elements together make him into a living being.
Now, um, when you, so this is the word in Hebrew, right?
The, it's nephish and we read right to left.
So there's a, the N and the, and the pay.
And the, isn't that, isn't that little symbol on top of the S?
Doesn't that mean something else?
I heard that, that's a diacritic.
It's a, it's a really important symbol in the, in the, but doesn't that mean something
about like slavery wasn't, it definitely means, it definitely means there is no such thing as,
as God, um, because it's coming down you see.
So it's saying that that means that the soul goes down into now.
Please, whoever, if you're ever anyone listening, we're just making fun of someone else.
I apologize.
Making a joke about it.
Go watch the slavery panel.
Let's, uh, yeah.
And the next slavery panel, I will be doing a bit on, a bit more on, uh, on that.
But anyway, so, so what we have here is, is a word that, um, in, in Genesis two is also has the,
the adjective living connected to it.
So it's a living soul, a living nephish.
And the same, uh, term is used about other creatures in Genesis one.
So dogs go, dogs go to heaven is what you're saying.
Well, see, I would say the opposite.
We all go to hell.
We'll be in the grave together.
We'll be in the pit together, which is, which is, you know,
I would like my dog to follow me everywhere.
So I'm, I don't know whether it was long, but so the, so when, yeah.
And, and so, and, but this, so this living creature thing, the living thing is a bodily thing.
And, and it's, and it's a, it has to do with the fact that we are animate objects.
Right.
So there is something there that, that it has to do with the ability to move and to speak and to
do and to be, um, something more than just a rock or a tree or, or a bag of clay.
Right.
And so that's when, like, so you become a nephish, um, when you have the breath of life in you,
some kind of life.
Um, and, and we see then, if we look at it historically, that the word nephish actually
probably originally meant throat.
So this is a pretty common development, I guess, that, that body parts, um, develop semantically
to mean wider and wider things.
So we're, we're pretty, um, we're pretty embodied in our languages often.
And so when we, when we see that the development of the nephish, we have,
we have the throat there, but then it would then be connected to breath.
Right.
And so that makes sense because your throat, like that's, that's where your breath is.
And, and so there's this like, um, connection between what the, the place in your body and
then what, how, what we associate with it.
And, and the verb that comes from this same route.
So Hebrew is this like very fun thing where these three consonants, um, that we have are
like, they can be nouns, like adjectives, verbs, like there's the, there, they get modulated
with, with vowels and prefixes and suffixes to, to have a lot of, uh, wider meanings connected
to the same central semantic term.
And so the same consonants, when it's, when it functions as a verb, it means to breathe.
And so that's like very central to it.
So a breathing thing, right?
Could be, could be one definition that we'd use of the nephish.
Um, and then by extension, then it means those who breathe, right?
So the, we have the creatures and it's both human creatures and non-human creatures
are, are described as nephishes in the, in the Bible.
And then, and, and a further kind of, um, I guess, call it a further abstraction of the
concept, then, then it also can be used as the self, right?
So it becomes your identity as a self is connected to this word.
And so you kind of move from the, from the concrete to the more extra, uh, abstract.
And, and the word nephish is actually also used in, uh, in the Bible as a reflexive pronoun,
um, not in a woke pronoun way, but in a, in a, in a, I tried to make a joke and didn't,
didn't work.
No, I, sorry.
You're like, just so everyone knows, um, Matt is, he's, he's super red peeled.
He hates all that.
No, I'm kidding.
I'm just kidding.
If my pronouns are a nephish, um, but so, and what, what it, so what you would use it
like with you, if you say, I, I, I myself saw him or something like myself, you would,
you could use nephish to, to express that.
And I will from now on.
Yeah.
I never, my, my nephish saw him.
I never did not.
Okay.
We're, we're headed down to slippery slope now.
And then it could also mean life, right?
So a life or living and things like that.
Um, but it also means appetite, uh, in a number of verses, right?
So, so it's like the, the desires of your being.
Um, and so it's like, there's all these kind of abstract things connected to it.
And then, uh, another way that it's looked at is also as the soul.
So the identity, the personal identity that's there.
And our, our friend, uh, Dan McClellan has written a lot about this concept actually,
in his, in his book.
So that you could, you could pop that up on the screen too,
something that people might want to, um, want to check out,
but I'll ramble a little while you look for it.
Um, yeah, because he, so, um, he has, I basically discussed this exactly the thing
that we're talking about.
And I told him this too, because I'm like,
my biggest fear is that I'll say something wrong
and then Dan will go on tic, tic, tic, tic, tic, tic, tic, tic, tic, tic, tic, tic,
vanquish, vanquish my nephish to, to Hades or something.
Like he's, uh, so there we go.
if you go if you go to his link tree link tree link oh my gosh whatever this
URL I'll post it he's actually got the book for free so you can buy it from
Amazon or a bookstore but but he is also made available for free it's called
Yahweh's divine images a cognitive approach I mean this isn't this isn't
just like a look at this thing look at this thing it's like it's a it's a it's
a full-on academic book it's a it's published it's his PhD dissertation
published it's just it's a and it's a really it's a really good book and he
builds up so what basically he's he's talking about the divine and and the way
divine the divine is conceived or where Yahweh is conceived as a divinity but he
kind of gets there by way of talking about what are the traits of of humans
and what traits then are assigned to the divine and how do these kind of these
things relate and and so one of the one of the things then is this question of
you know what is what is the what what is that where is agency or where is
identity located in man and and that is described in a couple of different
places in the in the Bible you have your heart is used a lot as a as a place
and then sorry I'm getting to okay I can see where your brain went and then I
went there just decided not to say anything the same way but that's good but
anyway the so yeah so that and then you've got you've got this identity
thing that's that's kind of seems to be the the idea is that it's the nephish
and and so in in some texts it does seem like the the nephish can be associated
with being away from the body right so it's it's like the term Dan uses and
people uses it like it's it's it's it's partitive it's it's something that can
be extracted from the body in certain situations and and this is kind of one of
those things that is most difficult to the track in the Bible because like the
Bible of the Hebrew Bible is not at all concerned with giving us doctrines of
what will happen to people after death there are a few places where we have
death described and and then you have to kind of be very careful in how you talk about these
things because in a lot of cases we just don't know what's being envisioned right
what what will happen but if we look at a couple examples of what's going on we see
like in Genesis 3 19 already in the same story as creation then this like kind of
the other end of the of the of the reference is by sweat of your by the sweat of your face
usually bread until you return to the ground for out of your taken your dust and to dust you shall
return and and this is one of the things that like I mean people read this at funerals still
like this is a pretty normal thing like you know from from the earth you've come to the earth you
return and then like in the Christian saying to say and from the earth you will rise again or
something and but like this bit is is really clear that like there it doesn't say you will return to
the dust and your spirit will live on with God forever and ever amen but it's like that's it
like you're you're you're dust right so there's no there's no dogma of something eternal happening
here so you know and that doesn't mean it doesn't exist but it's not in the text here
then like we have something like ecclesiastes chapter 12 where it says and dust returns to the
earth as it was and the breath returns to God who gave it so this is I think pretty clearly playing
on the the same verse that we just read from dust to dust and all that but like so it says and the
breath returns to God who gave it now this isn't the nephish this isn't the soul but it's it's the
breath but what it seems like is that in death the assumption is that you will your body returns
into the earth and and the breath just returns to God and and I would say not in the sense of that
your little breath retains a an atomic thing outside of God and hangs out with him but it's
just like when you breathe out and you breathe in you've returned the breath into you but it's
it's it's like it's not the same but it's like you you can't say oh I got that little molecule
and you're like it's just it just continues you know so I think like there's there there's some
room for for this is one of the verses that people would say oh look your spirit returns to God
there you go so people are go to be with God yeah so this is like looking back at it with
the lens of the New Testament is this what translation is this by the way so I'm using
the new revised standard version for everything yeah and another one that I really like is Psalm 82
where it says you are God's children of the most high all of you and this is like talking to the
gods uh and nevertheless you shall die like mortals and fall like any prince um and so this
is kind of the the the transition into talking about what is the difference between talking about
the soul as being something that exists in the texts and talking about the soul as being something
that's eternal and undying because those are two very different things and and and again I just
like I feel like every time I say something that I just have to remind everyone that I'm not saying
that I'm talking about whether or not the soul exists I'm talking about whether or not texts
are identifying the soul as something yeah there's a difference yeah because I have I have literally
no um I would say I have no uh cred in the world of identifying whether or not souls exist
I don't think any of you do either like I think that that's always going to be this thing like
okay I feel um but you go to a psychic a psychic will tell you yeah yeah well that's okay
sure we're gonna get to a psychic here in a minute like this is perfect um but so when we
talk about this like here the the idea is that we're contrasting the eternal nature of a god
the immortal nature of the gods with the mortal nature of humans so humans die and and this is
something that that is is a constant Yanom history sorry my Norwegian just popped started popping out
I'll try to rephrase that so this is a constant throughout history is that people died and when
they died they weren't resurrected and so like people's bodies disappeared and so we get this
concept in the bible of that people's bodies return to the earth and they they do like this is
this isn't a this isn't an imagination that plays in like it's it's pretty pure and simple like you
bury people in the dirt and you go dig them up 10 years later and they might have some bones left
but their bodies are gone and and then you wait long enough and the bones will be gone too and
yeah it's just a fact of life as we say that death is is is there and decay happens and and so we see
like you know in the in the mummification practices of ancient Egypt and things like that that you
would want to keep the body if you could like there there was also a longing to find out how
can we maintain the body even after death because the body is so central as the place where your
other things are right and so when when you have when you have your body and your identity connected
to the body then when you die then you would need a place for for something to go if it will continue
otherwise it ceases to exist and and so that's one of the things that that Dan talks about in this
book is that we do have like some some evidence of of like monuments being set up to to be the
place where the soul can abide so that people remember it and and this is is something that you
actually said in the very beginning that I wanted to jump on but I I felt like we needed to get to
the point where we could do it you said like that when you die you hope to live on in the memories
of your of your loved ones and and that's exactly what we're dealing with like as long as your soul
is remembered your personality your you is remembered then then you do in a way live on
and so it's like if it's a tombstone or whatever there that could be where your where your soul is
right and and so we we have this this idea that
that that you live on forever but really what it is is that you live on as long as the memory
is there and then what is it that gets remembered well the body is already dissolved and so we
must be thinking about something else so we're thinking about your personality or your your
life or your whatever because it's not the thing that animates you because that's already blown away
so it's again then you end up with this thing so we can call it the soul is what you what you can
remember but that also doesn't mean that that thing is is distant or is in heaven or whatever
so we're gonna we'll keep going through a couple more here someone who forces when you hide your
face they're dismayed when you take away their breath they die and return to their dust again
this is like a super easy to understand description of what happens when people die
they stop breathing so the the breath force goes out they return to dust so again like
this is doesn't say and their soul goes to be with jesus you know when their breath departs
they return to earth okay so i feel like i'm just keep saying the same thing over and over again
so then there i see in the chat science explains wants to wants to talk about this and and uh and
so i what i what i really like about this comment is that you use word soul so the author of first
Samuel seems to think there was a soul particularly in first Samuel 2015 where Samuel ascends from
xiao so um thank you for the comment the the author of first Samuel doesn't use the word soul
um and so this is a this is a pretty important thing um so uh so this is the story of King Saul
who realizes that things are going very very badly and he needs to figure out what he's
going to do so he needs to consult Samuel the prophet but Samuel's already dead so what do
you do well you go find a medium a diviner that can get in touch with the dead and and so he heads
to andor which is the place where this this person lives it's not a witch it's a medium or something
you might have heard of the story is called the witch of andor or something like that but
anyway um so Saul goes and and he asks the woman to do this and she says no i'm not allowed to
and then um she he convinces her to do this and the woman says whom shall i bring up for you
and he answers bring up Samuel for me and the woman saw Samuel when the woman saw Samuel
she cried out with a loud voice and the woman said to Saul why have you deceived it you are
Saul and the king said to her have no fear what do you see and the woman said to Saul
i see a divine being coming up out of the ground and he said to her what is his appearance and
as an old man is coming up he's wrapped in a robe and Saul knew it was Samuel so the thing
about this text is that it it describes a body like what it doesn't say and the soul of Samuel
came out of the ground there's nowhere that Paul's mentioned here what do you see i see an old man
or she said actually i see a divinity like i see a divinity and it's an old man uh he's wrapped in
a robe and so like what is described here is is seeing um seeing seeing something that is
unexpected and is is divine right and so it's not saying i see a soul or i'm contacting his soul
but it's like this idea of the bodily resurrection the bodily contact is down there in the in the
grave in the pit and and this is this is basically like the um the the idea is that that when you
tried to contact someone on the other side their nephish their soul whatever would have to be housed
somewhere like it would be like if it's not connected to a monument or something else like
where is it gonna be and it's gonna it's like it must then still be there like it's it's there with
the body at that point in this case like there's if if there is any soul it's connected to this
figure that is in his body down in the pit right so it's so is it like so is it like the soul
exists is is an interpretation of this that the soul exists as the nephish exists but it's not
this eternal thing that kind of it's not it's it's not it's not dualistic that is it it is
part of you it's a physical um not physical but it's it's uh like once you destroy the body you've
destroyed the soul like it's gone right right and and that it's it's the the basic idea i think is
that in in many many of the texts that we looked at and and the general the general kind of background
concept is that the body is is you and and in you then there are different ways of conceptualizing
your feelings or your different parts of you and and some of that then can be conceived as being
outside of you at certain times like it's not like it so so this idea of of what what makes
up you is is primarily connected to the body and primarily disappears when your body disappears
but as long as you're remembered then someone can think of you and can try and connect with you
but that seems to be envisaged as being connecting with your body even after death
interesting interesting so it's much more it's it's much it's much more of an interesting concept
really like it's it's deeper than you kind of at plain reading right and and so what and and
like just kind of one more time to circle back to Dan's book what Dan sets up is this kind of
way of showing that that the major difference between divinity and and humanity one of the
major differences is that the the divine always get remembered because they're worshiped and that's
like the the whole point is that the divine are worshiped and remembered daily and through the
rituals they set up a remembrance so that so that in the end like they are eternal and immortal
because of the continued worship of them right and so the moment that something
ceases to be remembered it ceases to exist
so
interesting i i recently we recently just had um uh very first interview i actually um let me just
quickly pull it up uh colt of the dead uh kyle smith on he wrote this book called colt of the dead
um did have you seen this did you check this episode out or do you see the i started watching i
didn't finish it but yeah it just incredible the way he describes because he essentially
makes the argument that christianity is a cult of the dead right but not in the reference not in
in like a negative way he's talks about like agriculture being about the care of the land
or uh culture being about the things that we care about and so it's like so culture the dead is the
idea that christianity is about the care and love and respect and um of the the very special dead
the martyrs the saints things like that yeah yeah and i i think that's uh that's a pretty
that's a pretty good description of it um i mean i think i think it's a fun thing to
to play with those kind of concepts of saying you know was was christianity called the dead is
christianity uh uh you know a pagan blood ritual you know it's like that like you know i
question was um that i saw the other day it was like did did god um did did god rape eve you know
like that's the and it's very the christians have left the chat yeah but it's like it's such a
but it's such a it's such a good question and it's so surprising that that it surprises people to
ask it actually because this is something they were asking in antiquity as well like there's a
i mean there's all these kind of things like how exactly did we get the divine into the next
generation because god breathed into uh god breathed into adam and then he took a rib and made
eve okay like but then what about like where's the like is it just because adam had breath like
how do we get you know and so there's all these things that have people have been thinking about
for years and years um that there's one other thing i want to throw in there before we like
before we just gonna open up to craziness um but i want to just mention the um the thing that there's
a couple of places that that kind of illustrate this this phenomenon in the opposite way in the
old testament um because there are two places where where people um are just taken uh up to heaven
or something um and so that's enoch and and elisha that both like don't die but are taken into heaven
and the way it's described is is again bodily right so it's not like it's not like they're
described as having um as a so it with in enoch's case it says like and he he walked with god
and and and he was no more and and so like all of the other patriarchs are described as dying
and and with enoch he um he gets to go be with god and this is something that people found
very strange later in antiquity because they're saying well what did he do like what what does it
mean he he just like did he not he didn't die like he and so it's again it's not saying that that oh
enoch was um was parted from his body and gets to go hang out in his soul in heaven or something
no no it's a bodily thing right just like we later see with with jesus it's not like you couldn't
like write the the new testament and say jesus died but his soul won against the double or
something like he spiritually defeated whatever like even jesus bodily rose to heaven right he
bodily rose to heaven he he got lifted up man i mean yeah that's supporting the texts that's like
yeah i something something i found really interesting and and what you suggested i read
chapter five of this book which i it was fantastic to read again um i ask him through it um fantastic
book by bariam and he talks about i think it's in this book but he talks about essentially like
the idea even in the idea of the new testament um he kind of puts forth the idea that there is no
hell even in the idea of the that jesus didn't think that there was a hell in the new testament um
and he also puts through forth the idea that um and i don't think this is controversial at all that
there'll be a new heaven and a new earth for the new jerusalem right and my favorite way to think
about that and i never thought about this when i was a christian was you could drive your car there
like i think of it like like it's like it's like it's physical as in like i could like
you know we could get a barge over there and i could i could bring my car i could bring the
pence you know like it's it's it's it's it's wild to think of it like that where you never think of
heaven in the new testament as as that you never think of like oh yeah i'll bring i'll bring my stuff
it's and that's so i mean i will get there eventually my plan is to get through through all
different kinds of literature on my channel and talk about these kind of things but one of the
videos that i will do eventually is the is the prophetic stuff and especially isaia is super
fun to look at because isaia has this this really interesting tradition where it kind of plays on
like the the second part of isaia um plays on two different themes and the first like
so chapters 40 to 55 kind of play on the exodus theme and and like because obviously the context is
we're we're we're on our way back to jerusalem or we've come just come back to jerusalem or
something like that and out of the Babylonian exile and it's like god free us take us straight
through the desert we you know and this is playing on all these exodus themes but then
like the final 10 chapters in isaia are where we get this new jerusalem
concept and and it makes such perfect sense that these are written when they've come back
to jerusalem and jerusalem sucks it's been destroyed it's been it's it's it's a it's a
shithole um and and they're like what do we do it's in ruins and they're like the dream is
this place is going to be awesome it's like god will rebuild the new jerusalem and then it's like
it makes so much sense like yeah it it's supposed to be a physical place that will be the home of
god's people forever yeah like not in that all the people will live forever but that the city
will live forever the nation will live forever and like it makes sense when you think of the
original concept of messiah where messiah is not supposed to be how christians have envisioned
the messiah it just it is meant to be like an earthly king that fought back the romans or
whoever was against is like fighting israel at the time and like took and made israel into a
great and glorious nation like that's what the messiah is like well i think it just means an
orange one but that's how that's the messiah that they're expecting yeah yeah i mean i remember the
first time i talked to um like a jewish scholar um about this and and just kind of asked like but
but you know what do we what do what do we do with the claims of messiah and it was just like
but he didn't do anything like that it's like it's pretty it's really easy like there's literally
one job for the messiah and and and if you haven't you haven't brought about the kingdom like like
literally the opposite happens within 30 years or 35 years of jesus's death like the nation is gone
the kingdom is gone and the temple is destroyed and so this is the opposite of of protecting
rebuilding re-establishing and so like and again it's it's the earthly thing it's the
like it's only when we really move into the later um apostolic period and into the early church
that that we see that i mean this this dualistic idea of the the the body and the in the soul or
whatever two different things and that these are one is you know one is favorable and one is eternal
and all this kind of stuff that that we get this um projection of of i guess of those ideas back
on the earlier texts and start saying like oh well we what we really need is um is like this yeah
this spiritual messiah or whatever and and it's just like you you you don't see that in the text
like there's not a in the in the hebrew bible there's not a tradition that what we need is a
spiritual messiah like what what is a is a physical one yeah um okay so i've got some questions for
you about this um and we're almost at time but i'll i'll try and i'll try and slam through them
we can we can ramble a bit more from from my perspective as well i'm awesome i'm the one
that's been talking too much so no do you this is exactly what we want uh we actually and just
before well if you got time actually i will mention this skeptics and scoundrel is in the chat
here's a patron thank you so much for your support but i i do have to shout out you mentioned before
how you had you loved how you love like hard questions or like questions that are like kind of
like you know did did god rape mary or whatever his channel just passed one of these videos just
passed 100 000 views awesome the best one of the best questions could god not kill children
yeah it's it's i love that because it's a really easy one yeah it's like an easy answer yes god
could like like this and this is this is why i'm an atheist like because any what if game you play
like if you if you have to end up saying he could but he could avoid this horrible thing but he does
it anyway and and that's always the answer could god stop this yes he could but he hates us like
well it's good too because it gets around that it gets around that stupid like because you know how
like you know there's that argument on apologetics it's like god is god is infinitely powerful or
whatever but it's like now they've changed it to he's maximally powerful it's like that it gets
around that problem as well so like because it's like well could i could envision a god maximally
powerful that didn't have to drown babies in the great flood and then you know the other what's the
other apology you get those babies were um were filled with nephilim you know so therefore kill
them like yeah exactly yeah so i totally i love that i love that kind of thing i'll check it out i
i actually i think i'm not sure if i've watched the whole thing through if i've even
i keep seeing it and getting like ah i've been so busy but i really i can't wait to watch it and um
and yeah i'm going to be on his channel the only way the only way around the problem of evil is
to water down the god and yeah i totally agree and i thought i you know occasionally i have
students that that come and ask me the hard questions because i do and i do have this kind
of thing in class too like somebody asked me something i'll just like start rambling and
we'll get totally off track um but like they'll um like i had a couple of guys come to me a couple
years ago and they're like so and they give me that look and i'm like all right this is gonna be a
good one and they're like how can god both be all powerful and all all loving like a full of you
you know and i'm like okay what i'm like what do you think like what do you think and and they're
like um well it seems like it um you know he would have to choose to not be the one sometimes so
that he could be the other whatever and i was like or maybe he's not and they're like and it was like
this shocking moment when when like an adult person says you know says like yeah maybe you
need to rethink that um it's just like yeah it's just like uh it's such a funny thing that we
we have these contradictory dogmas that that if you if you don't think about them together
it's fine but when you think about them together then you get a problem and and like that's that
cognitive dissonance that is just like such a random thing like where like you know yeah like
where do you go when you die like we we like Christians have a doctrine of the resurrection
of the of the body right that's that's the doctrine like okay not maybe not all Christians
but but that's generally the church's position is the resurrection of the body
so where do you go when you die you go in your grave and you wait and you hope for that resurrection
like that's that's the doctrine but what people actually believe is that they're you know their
friends or uncles or whatever are are with Jesus yeah and then they say where Jesus said it on the
cross and oh what's this according to Matthew Craig thank you for the comment according to the
pure pure research 60% of us adults who believe in heaven believe people definitely such probably
have perfectly healthy bodies the idea that bodies linked to souls is quite common in yeah thank you
that's that's awesome um I really yeah I appreciate those statistics because that's that's what I feel
actually is the is the is the thing you when you talk to people like they're it's really hard for
people to imagine what they are without their body um but they really want to be able to be
better than they are as well and so like yeah that idea of the perfection of the body is a really
funny thing um but but I guess there's some yeah I don't know it's uh there's a lot of psychology
there I think this is one uh so when I was reading this book um I this fantasy book people should
read it there's um except the audible version isn't available in Australian audible it's so
annoying so same as this is his new book I haven't found somebody with an Australian accent to read
it yet no no it's like it's like you can go to when you talk when you go to audible like you can go
to audible.com but then there's an audible.com.au that we have to use if you got an Australian
and it's not there like it redirects you and it's like uh well I'm thinking yeah well I have got a
VPN but then I have to use a different account it's so annoying I don't I want I got a anyway
rant over but there's a there's a scripture Deuteronomy 18 10 to 11 says let no one be found
among you who sacrifices their son or daughters in the fire who practice practices divination or
sorcery interprets omens engage us in witchcraft or car set spells or who is a medium or spirit
spiritist um who consults the dead yes yep so that's what we see in first Samuel right consulting
the dead that's a medium consulting the dead and and then you ask what what is the dead that we
have in the one description we have um of this that's first Samuel and and and and it describes
a body and the the medium is is is blown away by the body that she sees and so right so it's like
yes you can consult the dead but that's because the dead that are remembered continue to exist but
they they're connected to their bodies um and and so I think that's like um it so it it doesn't mean
it's eternal that's the point like the what it means is that is that as long as you remember
someone you can think about their personality you can think about their soul you can think about them
and and they still seem to be in most cases connected to that body but that might also
be connected to a monument or something that could be established to remember that person to
cause the memory of their soul to live on um yeah so so that's kind of your reading of it right
is that uh I mean this is just tricky because we're going into theology but is that a theological
reading of is that sorry is that a consensus theological understanding of it or do most theologians
kind of take the apologist route and kind of read in the New Testament into the Old Testament
so so actually I mean so up until very very recently the consensus view has been that there's
just that the Hebrews couldn't conceive of a separate soul from the body like so so I mean like
so when I when I was preparing for this like I was I you know I had a chat with Dan because Dan
knows more about this than than I do Dan McClellan and and he um you know made it very clear that
the consensus is actually you know the consensus would be would sound even better for me to talk
about but that's not probably the best reading of the text so like the earlier consensus is just
like is probably more influenced by the particularist view of of the Bible to say that the Bible is
different than than the surrounding cultures and things like that um and say that they they just
they just didn't really see the the the soul is something different um and so that was that's
been the scholarly consensus view but of course the the conservative consensus view is that your
soul exists forever and so then they would point to um like Jeremiah I knew you when you were in
the womb or before you were in the womb um and say see that proves that God knows everyone before
they exist and so therefore it's the pre-existence of the soul um so there's that kind of um yeah
so there's always going to be verses that are read and interpreted that that get pointed in this
direction that that the soul is is eternal um people will look at it but I think that at the
very most what with the texts what we can have the texts say is that the the soul is
that the soul is occasionally described as being separatable from the body partable from the body
but it's not it's not conceived of as being eternal because that's like that's literally the
whole point is that man is mortal like we yeah like you cease to exist at some point and in in
all ways there's um there's there's uh so there's the difference between like the soul and like
the eternal soul and that's like the the line in the sand I guess there's like you're not saying
that there is no soul in the in the Old Testament but you're saying there's no like eternal soul
is what the reading is right one more time so there's like a there's a difference between
I guess like the soul or um what's that word you use uh namesh navesh yeah navesh um and there's
difference between that and like the eternal soul like there's a different like there's
you're not saying that there's no soul or there's no namesh um but you're saying that well what I'm
saying is that there there definitely is like that people people are trying to describe where
their personality where they're where they're um where their mojo is whatever we want to call it
and and so like where is the seat of your personality where is where are you when you're
you where and and that is something that does exist like because we we have consciousness like we
think of it as I guess as our brain or whatever doing all this stuff and gives us the ideas and
gives us these things and and and then we conceive of things like in our heart does our emotions um
or our gut is where we have the intuition um like we we we use the body to talk about different
ways different places um that that we are and and so we have this um but we we we tend to think now
um that that there is this thing that could be could float out of us and still exist completely
separate from our body like I mean then like you know it's a it's a good like movie image of it like
you know the yeah yeah you kind of go out but then how is that like what what is that is that a
mirror of the body is it a you know is it or is it a shadow of the body is it a you know like a
shade or whatever is it what what is that thing um and and so like the the text we see seemed to point
very clearly that that in a lot of cases um once the body's gone then then there just isn't anything
left for you to to be yeah but so that like that then then in that case your soul dies with you
yeah but but then when things are described as being able to exist after death it doesn't mean
that that that thing exists forever um but it it's a memory of you and therefore your personality
your mojo whatever lives on um but it only lives on in that it is remembered yeah okay there's
something that there's the area that we didn't like we didn't get a chance to fully kind of discuss
but there's the the maybe we could just quickly touch on the the concept of sheol because you hear
a lot about in the Old Testament sheol and to me when I was a Christian I always imagined that as
like a like a waiting place like it like kind of like hell but like there's not like kind of like
kind of like hell but not not not no punishment yet it's just kind of like you're in this dark
area just waiting and for the actual yeah so can you can you touch on what she only is historically
yeah I mean show so it it means the the pit or the grave um and and I think that's
basically where we what what it is like it's it's just the place where you are it's it's
physically it's it's your grave and it's where you go and then your body disappears in that thing
and so then you're just there and it's it's a place of darkness and there's nothing happening
but what the the Christian projection that I even hear you you giving it is that it's waiting for
the final judgment or something where where you end up either going into the real hell or something
else and that's like that's adding to the to what we have because sheol is like the very very few
mentions we have of it are are basically just it's it's just like of course you you exist there in
some way because you're not in the realm of not being there but like it's just a it's you're just
you're just gone like that and that's where you like and that's that's your eternity is is just
and that's why I say like I don't think I don't think the Hebrew Bible has any concept of eternal
life but there probably is the concept of eternal death it's like it's just once you're dead you're
dead and I just that's what what is in the in the idea in the New Testament as well that this kind of
the the the idea of hell or whatever comes actually out of this Gehenan idea of it's it's a
the garbage pit you know it's like it's a bit where you garbage and burned it or whatever and
and and then you're just there it's not it's like a place in Jerusalem right like
yeah it's like a beautiful park now yeah and so it's like it's just it's just what kind of pit
are you in it's like yeah it's a trash pit but it's it's not that like there's a fiery brand
sticking you every 12 seconds for all of eternity or whatever yeah that's like South Park the movie
it's not like South Park okay so let's jump on to some last Q&A questions and if anyone's got
any questions you can send them through but I will end quoting before we jump into that I will end
quoting part of this book which which really helped me kind of understand heaven and hell a little
bit better not that I needed to deconstruct hell too much but it says Bart Ehrman who everyone knows
by them and he's an amazing professor of New Testament he says there is no place of eternal
punishment in any passage of the entire Old Testament in fact and this comes to a surprise
to many people nowhere in the Hebrew Bible is there any discussion at all of heaven or hell
as places of reward or punishment for those who have died probably most people who have read the
Bible think of Sheol as a Jewish kind of Hades or Hades a shadowy place where people go and all
treat her the same a banal and uninteresting netherworld where nothing really happens and people are
in effect bored for all eternity which that does sound like hell to me but in fact in most
passages of the Bible where Sheol is mentioned in many it may well simply be an alternative
technical term for the place where an individual is buried that is the grave or a pit and it's like
it just wraps up everything you were just saying it's like it's it's and yeah this isn't this isn't
weird this isn't wacky scholarship this is this is no no this is this is consensus standard stuff
that yeah and and so and again like this but this is one of those things that like that that the
reason why a lot of Christian theology uses this thing of you have to read the Old Testament
through the lens of the New Testament is precisely because then you can say things like well it's not
really there but it but but the full revelation didn't come until Jesus showed up yeah you know
and then like run into a problem that that even then it's still like people are still reading
later theology into Jesus and Paul but it's um it's just like that's the that's the way that
that most people think is is like and that's what's taught in seminaries too is is like the idea that
what do you how do you interpret the New Testament yeah you find out what the Old
Testament background is and then you see what was made more perfect in the New Testament
well that's the that's the thing is like I remember talking to my my head lecturer at
your ministry college and I and and they said that like we won't know about the end times
prophecies until after they've occurred is what his perspective was so he thought that like
revelations was we would know what revelations truly meant after it's occurred like we could
look back and go ah that's what it meant but it's but it's hard he said to look to it's what
relation saying you're trying to fit it to what's actually happening now yeah um yeah which which
like is it I would say is literally proof that it's not a prophecy because well yeah wait till
after the fact and then say this is the way I'm gonna fit this together to make sense of it
it's just such a great like that's literally why my channel is called the bible was written
backwards yeah because because that is like that's that kind of screwed up way of thinking in my in
my mind screwed up anyway that that you when you look at things and say oh look this foretell
this foretells the whatever um yeah that's my hope line around there
the um that's all great stuff the um like that what what happens is that we we get this Christian
um propaganda almost that that's that's is in the New Testament that says look
that text meant this and we didn't know it until we figured it out now like it's that
negotiation with the old stuff it's it's looking backward it's not saying that like it like we
like we know that it meant something else before it meant what it says in the New Testament but
the but the interpretation within Christianity is that oh it meant it meant it all along
yeah and and the whole point is that no it it's not all it's not like written in a vacuum and they
didn't know about it and then then they write their story and then they're like holy crap
Jesus like it's it's literally like the that like Matthew's sitting there and and right
reading Matthew's gospel is the most obvious example because he he like lays it out he's like
he writes a story and said this was done to fulfill what was written and like and all you
need to do is just take this is done and put I wrote this to to to convince you of what was written
yeah yeah and and and it's the same thing with what you're saying before like if you take the
gospels one and you go okay that's what it says then you go to the next one but if you read the
gospel side by side all of a sudden the little contradictions start to pop out like who was
joseph's granddad who was you know when did jesus die on the cross like um yeah so i have a few
yeah exactly um i have a few um quick questions uh but someone asked before um he's been asking
amazing questions um zeb it's nice to see here i'm sorry you have insomnia but i'm also glad
because you're asking fantastic questions zeb asked what are dr bonka's favorite metal bands
you know i'm do you know what the reference is there because keep an eye on the 50 minutes
to also metal bands and this is this so this i'm gonna have to say is like the most embarrassing
thing about my personality that i'm now gonna have to admit publicly is that is that i'm i'm a country
music fan and i know this is as bad as it gets in some cultures
it's amazing i've never really been into metal um i had a punk rock period in my in my youth
how how punk rock like dead kennedy is punk or like yeah like but i was also i was a good christian
kid so i did a lot of like so i think i i felt like what i could play around people was like the
the the punk versions of the classics like me first in the gimme gimmies that did all these uh
they did like covers of oh songs in uh like yeah so uh um we i think i think that same
head lecturer he was a youth pastor and he wrote um you know rage against the machine killing in the
name of he made it like serving in the name of dadan serving in the name of oh geez so i mean
it was it was a goof it wasn't we knew it was a goof like he wasn't thinking like this is serious
like um so we uh we played like we even punked up some songs for for worship sometimes for the
contemporary service and so you know my vision you know i so good so good i hate my life oh that's
amazing um matthew craigs yeah oh sorry uh no no no go on uh matthew craigs said do you think
jesus slash paul's understanding slash teachings of a soul is different from what you have presented
um yeah so what i think is that um so i don't know much about jesus um so i think that i think
that the teachings are presented in the new testament let's call it like that um i think
that there is there is a there is a subtle change from from the time of the of the hebrew
bible into the time of of jesus and paul definitely paul um has has more uh a more dualistic view
of of the body spirit soul whatever we want to call it um but at the same time like it's very
clear that we're talking about the resurrection of the body and and so i think that um i think that
so i mean it helps that i grew up in the minnight church because because they're like everything is
like jesus let's just take jesus literally like let's like let's not let's let's let's let's turn
the other cheek like let's literally be non non-violent pacifists because they said pray for
those of persecuting you okay then we will pray for them like literally like what do you do if
somebody believes you pray for them like what you know and so this kind of way of of and don't
pray that god will attack them or hurt them like pray no no no you shouldn't be praying for praying
that they will be be well you know and yeah and you know following things taking taking the sermon
on the mount literally you know it's kind of one of those values within the minnight tradition
and and that is really really really really hard right but it means that you interpret things as
the kingdom of having being here and now and and then what that kind of does is that you can
think about things as being more literal like so when it says that there will be a resurrection
of the body then you're like okay then my body will be resurrected like okay no big deal whereas
when when like if you if you're used to taking things allegorically or whatever then you think
yeah it's not going to be the body it's going to be something else yeah and so i do think that the
reason there is a doctrine of the resurrection of the body has to do with the fact that the new
testament is teaching that the that there still is something of intrinsic value in the connection
between whatever else there is and the body hmm but but i do think it's more nuanced and definitely
i mean by this time greek philosophy has has pervaded things and so we we there's a lot more
knowledge of the existence of things outside outside of the body and and if we look at like
the the prologue that i also have john thinking about like the logos or or jesus or whatever
is pre-existent um it it seems like at least not all souls are there with him at that time
like i mean so it's not like that the eternal existence of the soul backwards is certainly
not a thing um but four words i don't know it's a little harder to say the uh zebs has said uh
is christianity's obsession with the afterlife a way of usurping the greco- roman idea of an
afterlife same as usurping pagan ritual dates uh yeah i mean i would i would put it slightly
differently i would just say it's a reception of them um like i think usurping gives this idea that
it's uh uh you know some in some way a bad thing um but i just think it's just uh this is this is
what is literally the the human way of doing anything is that you pick up on the culture
and traditions that you're aware of and you integrate them in in the things that you do
or say or think right or whatever and so it's uh it's just a natural thing that that because christianity
comes out of the greco- roman world that it's going to be taking the hebu traditions and then
reinterpreting them in light of the new context okay um so uh i want to ask i've got a couple
last questions and we will wrap up that one of the the major ones is i wanted to kind of get a
get a um an aftermath from you for the interview you did with derrick so those who don't know
your interview with derrick was kind of you wouldn't say it's like a coming out thing or like but
like a lot of my first time publicly saying it yeah it was i mean i've been i've been pretty critical
in some of my videos i've done on different things where i haven't hidden my um my atheist tendencies
or something but i've never told the story and said like straight up that i'm no longer a believer
or whatever so yeah it was it was a pretty much a coming out party i don't know and it's and it has
been a party like it's blown up like it's gotten a lot of views and um so can you can you have you
had much of a response to that i'm curious to have your uh have you had friends or family or
people reach out to you and say good things bad things anything in between
all of it um i've had a i mean i've had a i've had a ton of responses um it's been it's been pretty
overwhelming actually the past couple of weeks just uh just kind of sorting um out all the different
voices uh it's it's been um a lot of really good stuff like a lot of um a lot i mean several
several colleagues several people that i'm i'm close to that i've never really talked to this
about that um you know i reached out immediately and were really supportive and really kind and
you know made me very aware that i that i'm i'm i'm safe you know and things like that and so
that's a good feeling and family as well that have been um definitely been been most of the
family anyway there's a couple examples that don't really like it and um that's you know
that's always hard to be told like that you're you're making bad decisions or whatever but then
i'm like yeah it's bad decisions exactly like because i you know your fate this is a decision
right that's uh it's just yeah like you can choose what you believe but like i the weird thing for
me is just the the the sheer number of people that feel that need to comment or to write to me and
tell me like where i messed up like it's like they watch my video and so this is like i mean the
when i'm talking about my history like i've been thinking actively about myself as a as a non-believer
for five years probably and i've been like through the past five years before that was
really struggling to figure out what kind of identity i was going to have um after i had
realized that i couldn't be that kind of christian anymore or whatever and so i've and then before that
you know was fully devoted reading but i read a ton of stuff i've studied and studied and studied
and so but people like write to me as though i'm i'm basically a 16 year old who who doesn't know
anything you know like saying oh well you should you should read this book by William Lane Craig
then or you should read Gary Habermas see he proves the resurrection things like that and and
i'm like do you think i haven't read that like like you should read anti-right like yeah dude
that anti-right is one of the reasons why i'm not a christian anymore because like i got so
i got introduced to a concept and then i saw how poorly it was argued like it's it's it's been a
part of my journey like doing these things like i have worked through it and and yeah it's not stuck
on one little thing that i say and then they're like have to get in and attack it um it's um
i just went went to the video now it's got 126 000 views uh which is wild that's that's big for
for even Derek's channel um yeah that's not but um but and i mean people need you need to go watch
this this um bible scholar and missionary dr matthew monger leaves christianity on Derek i'm
mid-vision um i'll i'll post it i'll post it here but the like it's interesting that you say that
because i i said to you before we were talking before and i said that it's it's almost like
people sometimes have to justify their doubts to you it's like they they get a doubt like you bring
up something they get a doubt and then they want to like they find a way to get over the cognitive
distance in their head and then they want to tell you about it and it's uh yeah i mean it
must be tough because you probably had a lot of people reaching out to you yeah and and it's and
i mean and that's like in a way i i totally understand it like that that's what people think
but it's just it's it's a it's a big surprise to be confronted with it in that like in that scale
that people um like and people feel the need to just tell me all their like why why they think
or how they think i should have fixed this problem or whatever and i'm just like you know like that's
um that's on you like that's i i don't like i i'm not there at i'm not at that place where
i'm going like man i hope somebody can recommend a book so that i'll i'll fix my faith you know
like or that that they'll tell me you should you should think about god in this way because
that's gonna give you back the faith you need like no and like it's a never once question
it's it's interesting because i never once go like hmm maybe i've got a wrong perspective like
i'm not saying all your friends your whole family post this but yeah it's it's it's very typical i
i um i had an experience where we were moving houses we built this house we're in now but we
were renting at the time when we had a big garage sale i had a bunch of books out
they were selling and one of them was a book that i'd never read um that i was um that was
like a christian book it's called living water and i was going to um and i was selling it it was just
it was there for sale and this lady asked me oh you know why you know oh this book i love this book
have you have you you know what do you think for that so i haven't read it and she said um and i said
it's not you know not really something i'm really interested in she goes oh why not and then she goes
you know in what church do you go oh i don't go to church anymore oh and she started asking me
questions about my um faith and i said oh you know i've started questioning things why you know oh well
i just i came to um think that the best way to you know you wish have good reasons to believe
the things we have not just faith and whatever got to the end of the conversation and i'm like
there like like people are trying to buy stuff from me and i'm like talking to this lady who's
like i'm kind of you know doing stuff and she asked me to help her bring some stuff to the car
and i'm helping her bring like the stuff she bought to the car and she i think she had bought
in the book and then she'd given up and she's like i bought this for you so she's giving me back the
book or or i'm not sure if she she did something she was like don't sell this book you go read
this book and was crying and telling me that that i needed to read the book and that god was going to
you know um save me and all this stuff if i read the book and i was like i'm like lady like this is
wildly inappropriate like inappropriate um or i didn't say that but i was just like i was kind
of like trying to just get her out of there but it was it's weird how it's you know and um dark
matter does um has this video dark matter i've got the numbers but he has this video where it's like
when someone rejects god like people that the same areas of the brain when you under an MRI
light up when someone talks about self or they talk about god that's why god tends to have the same
beliefs about gay people politicians everything as you do right so when someone actually says
to you like says that they reject god it's it's it's very personal it can be very personal the
idea is to people because they're it's it's almost like they're saying they're rejecting you it feels
the same as them rejecting you but they're being usually the person's being polite and kind and
i kind of like that idea because it explains why people get so heated and angry and upset when
someone says i don't believe or i'm not convinced anymore or i'm an a like it's just
cool that's that's that's crazy um yeah it makes a lot of sense
okay um it's two more two last questions and these are fun ones i ask these for a lot of
people and i'm very interested with someone with your expertise in languages super interested
to hear what you um what are you going to say so first one what is the most plausibly true
religion that you don't believe in the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in uh science
you think that you are religions of science oh science is religion
sure i mean okay sure i think you don't believe in science well sure i do but i don't i mean
oh that's a good one like scientism so yeah i mean so like i i guess that's like i just
wanted to say science because it just sounds like shocking but i do believe i do believe in
science in a certain way but i don't believe that most of the knowledge that i have now will
prove to be perfectly 100 objectively true or anything like that so i i think like i think
that we that our current state that we have moved to in our society is this idea that um that if you
have enough expertise you you can get to objective truths about things and then that they will then
solve your problems and and so i think in that way it is a religious thing that we have we have
a way of trusting blindly what what happens and then you have this movement against it the anti
religious movement where people say no i'll do it i have to figure it out on my own um so i'll do
my own research of which means they probably go here on youtube and and listen to somebody here
or right or they shoot or whatever and they they decide that they're you know gonna you know do whatever
based on that that they do their own research and and like and and in the one way like you
can never become that expert by just reading a couple papers or watching a couple youtube videos
so you can never really do that but you convince yourself that you can do that and so then they
set themselves up beside the you know the the god or the the the priest or whatever and say no i'm
just as much an expert as you and so you have this kind of religious battle even going on between
the pseudoscience and the real science or whatever but but like what we do know is that um that facts
change because new things and so like wherever where we are right now is just like a stage on
that journey to discover more things and and i think that's um that's like the
that that's just the way it is like i mean like so at any point in time any religion is also
changing and and morphing and and everything and like we might say that you know you have the same
dogmas as the church well like baptists didn't exist in the first century i'm sorry like they
they might claim that they were baptists but like this believe me that wasn't the way first
century christians were thinking and so like yeah so i i just think like uh but but that was just
that's just a fun way of answering the question since i don't like i actually i wouldn't i mean i
wouldn't put any credence on on anything so it's it's so you're kind of saying that like
that like the your religious belief would be science but as in like science is objective
and everything we know now is fact um and like that that kind of uh pops idea yeah yeah the way
it's used where yeah and you don't and but then in reality you don't actually subscribe that you
think that that facts kind of grow as we gain more knowledge right and so one of the things
that's super super exciting is is research that's done on on the sociological construction of of
science and the way like we can think that like like so this is like Bruno Latour and and like
it's called like sst studies and stuff but it's super exciting because they can that you can actually
see that even in the laboratory that is supposed to be entirely objective doing like
physics or medicine or things like that like like what happens is that results are are sorted and
interpreted even before they are brought to the table like why are we doing this this experiment
why aren't we doing another experiment what is the experience we don't even know about
what is this group of people doing what are the what are the structures between the interactions
between them that are leading to the discovery of this knowledge what kind of um you know all
these things that interact that that shape what the knowledge is and how it's produced
have a massive impact on what we're doing and so we will come to a point where we ask different
questions and we do things in a different way that will lead to different results and different
things um like that doesn't mean that I think nothing is real or anything like that like I'm
not a complete relativist but but I do think that we we we we have this idea that that science
gives us answers and that those answers then are are solid and and I think that like we yeah we're
kind of stuck with the fact that um we can only know what we know now but probably what we know
now will prove to not be the the whole of it. Interestingly I like to think of like the idea
that like science facts kind of like evolve not necessary or like kind of grow not necessarily
like change but but I um maybe I'm part of that religion but like I I definitely what I always
say is science is the best tool that we have to investigate the natural world and I always put
it back into the person what what's a better tool what's a better tool than the scientific method
that we have to like because like it's like uh what's that other quote it's like um democracy is
the worst form of government besides all the others it's like it's the best we've got you know
like it's like and I totally agree with that I'm I'm 100 a fan of the scientific method um
I think that the the way that um science is used in in popular culture and in in the world then
is something different than the the method in of itself and so like and I and I could say it to
like I think that the practice of religion can be can be quite beneficial for some people um
so I'm not like a radical anti-religionist either like I would say like where where people feel
they gain community and gain let's call it um peaceful tendencies or or feel that they that
they're feel like connected to a larger something that's good for them or whatever like I'm I'm I'm
I see the value and and I know that like also there's research that says like the the feeling
that someone is praying for you is also has the placebo effect of of kind of increasing your
chances of feeling better about things and yeah like it it's fine like it doesn't that doesn't
bother me but it's uh it's the it's like we we just need to differentiate between the the methods
and the and the actual realities that people are using them for yeah so one last question before
we do that can you just quickly tell us what your next video is on your youtube channel
which people should go subscribe to right now yeah so uh my next one is going to be the garden of
eden uh we're going to look at images of gardens the gardens of the gods and the tree of life
in uh in pre-biblical times and look at what might be and of lurking in the background for the
story of the garden of eden oh that's awesome I'm not sure if you saw my talking and talking snakes
that's uh that's cool I'm not sure if you saw my cringe preach compilation with our Derek and
Neil but well we both preached me Neil both preached about the garden of eden so if you need
any information go check that out because I did I was I was at the gym um you guys were doing that
and I was I was on a treadmill for like like 90 minutes or something watching you guys and you
guys just kept going and going so I had to just keep going and going and I was laughing out loud
occasionally I enjoyed it and people were just looking at me because I'm like running you know
and like you're still laughing it was uh it's so funny you're looking crazy person um so uh and
you've got your website of course people can check that out as well you'll be doing some more stuff
over there and I just a little side note thanks to all the new members I am seeing some new members
pop up I don't have the list in front of me but thank you for joining this youtube channel
I really appreciate it and uh we also have a patreon and this week for the 12 patrons and
you're one of them you're one of the 12 the initial uh uh oh my gosh where is it
you're one of the initial 12 disciples of deep drinks so we're doing we'll be doing a um a live
q and a an exclusive clue at q and a just for the patrons this week with a um guest who I'm not
not going to announce yet um but uh it'll be it's going to be really cool and then I'll be turning
those into videos later on so if you want to join the patreon now's a good time if you can
afford to um thank you so much everyone so the last question that we have um is and this is this is
this is a good one uh for you I'm not tuning my own horn if you could choose an afterlife
and it would it would become true both good and bad for everyone what would you choose
and so an afterlife from a religion so because I thought maybe because you know
akkadian and all he's like yeah so
I mean honestly I mean god like it just depends on how you uh I like I like you I think I'm just
so scared of getting bored of the same thing every day so I'm not gonna let you give me like a
milk toast like easy answer you gotta you gotta choose a real world religion with a world
so my so like my so I'll say my interpretation of of the buddhist
afterlife would would probably be it that you just in a way become one with the universe again and
your you kind of wink out of existence is is is definitely like that that would be where I would
want to be um I don't know if you've seen the the show the um the good place yeah and and so I got
it's spoiler alert anyone that um has a spoiler spoiler spoiler coming um for me like just the
way that show ends is is like the final season is like it really spoke to me um because you get to
this like this heaven and realize it's full of people that hate it because this same thing again
and like you can have anything you want you can do anything you want but it's like after a few
billion years like you're not from yes you kind of like yeah it's just like even I mean like I
feel like after a few days of doing the same thing I'm tired of it you know and so like and that is
like you can say whatever like maybe your soul changes or something in the afterlife but but
for me it's just like the the image of just um I think the way it was it said is something like
you know it's just like the like what are running back into the sea and and it just kind of you
just kind of dissipate into and and that for me is like that that's the that's that kind of buddhist
thought that you're yeah you just you just become I do like buddhism sometimes like so for me that
is uh that like and and that for me is I think the reason I would then like that kind of total
annihilation or or dissipation or whatever feeling is is just the um the fact that it then
turns the focus back to this life um because that was for me the greatest freedom in and deciding or
kind of coming to the conclusion that I don't have an eternal soul that's going to live on in
punishment or glory or whatever because I don't have to be worried about it like there's no there's
nothing on me to do anything other than make the most of of this world and I'm also responsible for
it like there's it just it's for me it's such a freedom to to think that that after this um
we um you know we don't know what's out there but we will slide into it as everyone else has
but what we do know is how we are right now and why not then make the most of this
that's actually yeah that's actually very in line with how what I feel is um I've got a bonus question
I just thought of um uh so a lot of people have you got any messages saying you just wanted a sin
yep have you got me oh yeah yeah yeah and they and because I mentioned whiskey drinking whiskey
with kip davis on it then it was like obviously drinking and that's oh really yeah yeah you just
wanted to oh awesome so well unfortunately not not unfortunately let me I almost said something
stupid I'm good at like saying these things at the end of interviews I say but like I've never
like I've never I've never I haven't indulged in a whole lot of these sins that people would uh
would say like I haven't been to the orgies and stuff that all these other atheists apparently
yeah but uh but I know but I because I because I mentioned drinking whiskey then I um then they
assumed that that I left God so that I could drink whiskey so well that will you kind of answer the
question but this question I just thought of is why did I'm going to write this down as a question
for deep drinks from now on but um so what was the sin you left Christianity for what was the main sin
it was apparently it was apparently I think mostly so in my mind it was atheism right because
I grew up thinking atheism was a sin um okay but the worst thing you could be the worst thing you
could be but yeah I guess I must it must have been it must have been been to do all this drinking
that I do which is why I chose to be poke with you here you know oh geez isn't it amazing um well
that's that's fantastic well thank you uh Matt for coming on I really appreciate it it's been
really fun um well we're gonna have to do a theological happy hour with you one time um or
another how you want again guys subscribe to my channel make sure you subscribe to um at Bible
Monger on YouTube as well we'll see Matt when he comes back for the slavery panel which will be a
hoot it'll be a lot funer I think than last time um well maybe not a lot but it's gonna be fun it's
gonna be a race first I hope there will be less tears it will be more except for the apologists
that are watching yeah exactly exactly well thanks guys for coming out I really appreciate it and
we're going to end on not the the trailer for the slavery panel but we have a purity culture
panel coming at the end of next month and we'll be releasing the names of the panelists in the
next week so we'll end on that trailer I'll see you later guys bye
um
