You
You
Welcome to deep drinks podcast where the drinks are deep and the conversations are deeper
Hey
Everyone welcome to deep drinks podcast today
We have a very special episode because we're going to be having a little bit of a back and forth a little bit of a discussion
Slash debate about morality and we have t-jump with us before we get started
I'm going to we're going to announce a few quick things
So for those listening to the podcast in the future this episode was live
If you want to join in a conversation go to youtube.com slash and deep drinks and you can join the conversation
You can ask some questions
And it'll all be a great time
If you haven't already
You can download the podcast to listen on your way to work
If you go to the links in the description, it's on spotify apple music
Google it's all there all ready to go
It is a hoot and a half and so you can see all the episodes we've had in the past
We've had dr. Josh on talking about the old testament
I've had an ex-mormon elissa with beck alexander who is is just an amazing story
And just about her deconversion from mormonism. So I think that's something that you find interesting
Jump into it and and and have a listen
And the last thing I want to mention is we are growing
Quickly in subscribers. So as you know once well, you may not know, but
We are doing a charity stream when we get to a thousand subscribers
So I recently moved deep drinks to its own channel and put all the old episodes up and we're we're
Trying to get to a thousand subscribers because of thousand subscribers
I can start getting like chat donations and things like that and I'll be doing a six hour live stream to try and
Give some money towards charity and it's just a cool goal to kind of work towards so as you can see we're moving up
So if you like content like this make sure you hit subscribe
Um, this I think it's like something like 80 percent. Here we go 80 percent 4 percent of people watching are not subscribed
So make sure you hit the subscribe button
If you want to support me you want to support charity you want to support the channel. Um, that would be absolutely awesome
Um, so with that said I'm going to introduce our guest who is a bit of a spicy one who has some really interesting conversations
So his name is tom jump t-jump is he no he's known by and he's an atheist a philosopher who hosts conversations and debates with professors
academics
Apologists and everything in between
Tom regularly engages in topics from biology and physics religion and morality with it with a few flat earth debates pep in there
He's not a flat earth. Although he opposes the flat earth
To tom subscribed to objective morality as opposed to subjective morality
So he views morality as an undiscovered law of nature that is true whether or not people believe in it
He's got his own theory on objective morality called
You call involuntary in position of will and he's co-authoring a book on the very subject that he's going to get published and peer reviewed
Um, when it finally comes out, but he's working on that at the moment. So with that said I'd like to welcome
t-jump
So hey man
How's it going? How you doing?
all right
You got the iconic chair the the lazy boy and you just just chill ready to go ready to jump into this conversation about morality
uh
But what are we what are we drinking t-jump?
uh cherry pepsi
Yeah, that's the golden liquid unfortunately in australia. We can't get uh cherry pepsi like well at least I couldn't find
Anyway, I had to go to a specialty store and spend four dollars fifty on one can of cherry coke
So I thought that was as close as I can get so that's what we're gonna do it
And I think this is the first time I've ever had a cherry flavored, uh, coke or pepsi drink. So
um, I'll I'll be doing a review as uh as we go
But before before we um dive into morality, I just wanted to if you could give a quick introduction to how you actually got interested
In such top topics. So what why are you interested in morality? Why are you interested in these things?
uh
Well, I wrote an epistemology theory of knowledge and was contrasting it to theism and trying to
See if the arguments better indicated the natural hypothesis to a theistic hypothesis and I came to the moral one
and so I researched it just like I did the other ones and um
I was wondering if it had any alternatives to theism
Because if you grow up in a predominantly christian society
um, you don't really
You're not taught about alternative views of objective morality. You really think god's the only option
And then when you start researching into the academic side
The philosophers don't agree. There are lots of alternatives to god-based morality
um, in fact a god-based morality isn't objective and the ones that are are
platonic objects apri or abstracts
undiscovered laws of physics those kinds of things are objective whereas
God's opinion is not objective
And so understanding what objective morality could be that the naturalistic hypothesis are better than the theistic ones and
The theistic one isn't particularly good at all
Is what got me into the topic
So I can imagine um my some of my muslim friends and christian friends are like they're the powdering their fingertips at the moment
Getting ready to type some um some objections to what you just said that what do you mean by god is not
God's opinion is not objective. How can that be the case?
What uh, well objective means independent true independent of opinion
So if it's true because god says so with that's dependent on an opinion
So in order for it to be objective, it can't be contingent on a mind because if it's contingent on a mind
That's the opposite of objective. It's it's some subjective
but wouldn't uh
Oh, okay
But would would christians muslims would theorists say that god has a quote quote mind
I guess we perceive it as a mind
Yes, that's like one of the required properties is that he has a mind because if he doesn't then there's no more god
It's it's just pantheism just nature
So it doesn't matter if the mind is like our mind if it's contingent on a mind of any kind
subjecting
Okay, interesting
Okay, and so you grew up a christian. Is that right?
Yep
And you're not a christian now. How did that happen?
Uh, I had major depression my entire life
None of my prayers were answered and so I lost the ability to believe in the all powerful
sky daddy who actually cared about me
Okay, that's a very quick like usually that's a two hour conversation on this channel
We you know, but you just summed it up real quick. That's I like that. Um
It's good. I think that's great. Um, and so how did you first start like posting videos and things like that?
um, I was
interviewing
All right, I invited out professors for coffee and just chatting with them to test my knowledge and philosophy
And I record the cop conversations on my phone and just upload it for convenience and people started to watch. That's how
It's gonna happen
Yeah, right
Awesome. I assume that you didn't bring in the um lazy boy back then that was a new addition, right?
I was born with it
That's so good
I love that on your discord too. You have like little stickers and merch and stuff like of the chair
That's what's pretty funny. Try it by t-jump merch. Everyone should go right now. I just buy t-jump. Yeah, do it
Go buy t-jump merch do it 100%
So I thought we could jump straight into morality and uh, and let's just have a discussion with it because I disagree with your perspective
And I think that's where okay. Well, that's where interesting discussions. This is where interesting discussions lie, right?
We'd have a civil um discourse about it. Um, but I think so
I probably disagree, but it's probably I don't actually know your full theory
So I just could you lay it out to me like what why do you believe that morals are objective?
Uh, yeah, so there's a pattern in moral intuition
It is moral progress is what we call it. We see there's a pattern that it changes in a very consistent direction over time
You know, I think that pattern is going to hold true
To all conscious things in the universe, not just humans and they're also going to follow this pattern
And if they all follow the same pattern and it's indicative likely indicative of something more than just a social construct
It can't just be a social construct if every society is doing it
Um, and so there's likely going to be some consistency to this pattern and it'll lead somewhere
It has an end point as an end point
And there's a pattern to it. Um, it's reasonable to think that this is representative of some fact of reality that we just don't understand yet
That's about it
Okay, so, um, you said that that like, you know societies follow these laws. Can you give me like an example of this?
Uh, well, so the like consistency
Consistency of the law is like as you increase in technological advancement and intellectual acuity
Um more involuntary in positions of will are seen as immoral. That's the pattern
So it means as you gain in technology and there are less things you have to do that are bad
Um, you start to see those things as immoral
So like veganism as an example today
As we get to the point where we're like at star trek and we can just print food
It will be seen the majority of people will see eating animals as immoral
Um, and same thing applied to slavery women's rights lgbt rights
As we got to the point in society where these things were no longer justified because of some means to
Need certain kinds of
hierarchies in order to have society function then they started to be seen as immoral and so
With patterns going to continue as we gain technologically more things that we currently see as necessary will be seen as immoral like jails
Will be seen as immoral stop lights will be seen as immoral
Um any unnecessary imposition of will will be seen as immoral once we get to the technological stage
Where it is no longer
justified to impose it on anybody
Okay, I can understand where you're coming from there. So I'm a vegetarian or vegan
Um, I say vegetarian just because you know my work still buys a lot of shoes and she's like that
Um, I like bacon for me
Yeah, okay. Um, so you're immoral. No, I'm kidding. Um, that's that's exactly right. That's I am immoral
Um, I guess that's so I I understand that veganism and vegetarianism is the moral position
And I choose to eat cheeseburgers and bacon and pizza. So I am immoral. That's correct. Yeah, not to get off on a um
On a well, let's let's get off on it later
But like not to get off on that but like you would never accept that I can somebody just love raping babies, right?
You know, we wouldn't be like, well, you know, I know it's immoral, but I just love raping babies
You'd be like, no, you should stop that you piece of shit, right?
Yeah, but what that's the same thing. So like, uh, if someone was a murderer or something and he said and he says I'm immoral
I'm like, you're right. Yes, you are immoral. I mean, there's nothing I'm not disagreeing. I'm agreeing with him
He's right. That is a correct statement. So, okay
I mean, there's not really saying that there's this imperative to
Try to get him to stop or something. It isn't a difference there. Those aren't like different positions
You can say yes, I agree. You are you are factually correct when you say you're immoral. I would I would agree with that
But I'm yeah, but I'm gonna yeah, it's like, okay
yeah, so
So just to go back to what you're saying with the you know as as society gets more civilized
We start to do things
So I always use the example of like people always come to me and say like, oh, would you eat a pig on a desert island or whatever, right?
And my my my response is usually is usually the same
Is what I need a pig in a desert island if I had to well, I'd probably eat whatever the pig was eating
But let's say like hypothetically the pig was dropped in on a little from a plane the little like
Parachute in Atlanta safely. It couldn't eat anything. It was gonna die. I had to kill it to eat it to survive, right?
I'd probably do that
I'd probably also drink my own piss, but given the a glass a cool glass of refreshing
Coke cherry, which is delicious by the way. I'm choosing the coke cherry every time or I'm choosing water every time, right?
So under certain circumstances, I agree. We change we change what we find acceptable in that in that time
but for me that points to
Moral subjectivism more like that that people find it okay in certain
instances to do certain things and okay and not okay in other instances
So so for example like like if I was having dinner with the queen, right?
And like she bringing out chicken wings
I'm not picking up those chicken wings and like munch on them with my feet my hands
I'm using a knife and fork right because that's seen as the quite quite correct thing to do
Right, but like sitting in around a barbecue with a bunch of my boys
And they're all eating their chicken wings is it would it would almost be the wrong thing to do to pull out a knife and fork, right?
Would you agree with that?
it's like
Well, well, I'd say it'd be wrong even in the case of the desert islands eat the pig. It's still immoral
You're still killing a conscious agent. So
I think that
Anytime you kill a conscious agent ever for any reason it's always immoral no matter what there is no justification whatsoever that will ever make it moral
It's always that's literally contradictory to what a justification is if you're justifying doing something bad
It can't be good. The justification can't make it good
um, and so
I I don't really care about what people disagree on or whether people would do different things in different contexts like
Many people would probably kill baby hitler. Um, and they find that justified, but I don't that doesn't make it moral
It's not like
Therefore because people would do it. It must be morally good in that case like no
Yeah, that means true independent of anybody's opinion. So the fact that people would do it
Really doesn't have any basis or relevance to whether or not something is moral
Yeah, like the killing the baby hitler thing, right? It's a consequentialist
Like for those to say people people to say that's like a moral thing to do
That's like a consequentialist perspective, right?
And there's like utilitarianism and and Kantian perspectives and social contract theory and stuff
Do you subscribe to any of those theories within the objective?
Framework objective morality framework. No, I mean most of those aren't objective morality like consequentialism and utilitarianism or pragmatic models
They don't need to be objective. You can make an objective model out of it, but they're they're not objective
Um, but yeah, I don't subscribe to any of those. No
Okay
So, all right. Well, okay, so I'm I'm finding I'm throwing a lot of stuff at you
I'm trying to find some hooks to let's first to go deeper
But so what is what is morality to you because for me it seems that morality is is mostly a pragmatic system
We use to organize society
That doesn't it doesn't exist. I'm kind of like a moral anti-realist
I think people people who seem to just operate within their own preferences
And people's as society gets better and bigger or or and stuff we start going well now
This is not okay. And that's just people operating within their preferences and that it makes sense then that you know, I mentioned
Alyssa Whitback Alexander
She was a Mormon when she was deconstructed from a Mormon faith
Her and her husband drove to another town
They wore like a disguise to order their first coffee because they thought it was such a bad thing to do to order that coffee
Right, they had this moral weight that it was bad to drink this coffee
But we wouldn't say it was bad to drink that coffee because we don't have those same
cultural perspectives
cultural religious perspectives, right, so
To me
It seems that morality is just like people operating within their own preferences. It's subjective
Oh, actually, I don't even think morality exists. I just think it's a tool we use
We could we say to
For people to operate within their preferences
Okay, well, is there a pattern to it? Why why is like it's not all
Um, just coffee. There's there's a pattern, isn't there? There's like some things are typically seen as a moral in that pattern
Do you think aliens will have a similar pattern?
Well, it depends, right? So like if aliens have a central nervous system
so like like if you imagine if you bring like you talk about biology a lot if you bring things back to like
ground roots
biology, right sticking knife in leg usually
Produces an uncomfortable feeling for for sentient beings, right?
Knife leg bad, right? That's like the is is like as rudimentary as you can kind of get so it's like well
If it produces an uncomfortable feeling because of how we're evolutionarily wide
because leg in bad
leg
Knife in leg bad
Then you can deduce that we create will create a rule. Hey, I don't want you to stab knife in my leg, right? Like it's like
You can see how like everyone would come to the same subjective
Ideas, what do you think about that?
So you agree there is a pattern that's going to be true. Yeah across species
Everywhere in the universe pretty much or across species. I don't know but yeah, but yeah aliens aliens aren't human
They're two species different different species. That's why I said alien. Well, we don't but we don't well
I'd have to reject it because we don't have any we don't have any idea of what aliens would be
We're just we're literally just talking Star Trek at the stage like we we've never we don't know if aliens exist
We don't know what they will be like. We don't know if they'll be sentient. We don't know what they'll
It might be a nonsensical thing to to talk about
Well, that doesn't make any sense
So like if there are aliens that do exist
Suppose they're conscious because if they're not conscious then they're probably not going to have a view of
Morality they're just going to be rocks which are fine. Yeah, depending on how you define consciousness, but yeah
I don't I don't know how to define conscious. Yeah, let's let's not let's not go down that
But if there's conscious they're probably going to have a system of rules that they feel are
better or worse right or wrong
and that's probably going to have
all most
conscious agents are probably going to have this
And they're all probably going to have the same pattern like don't eat babies is probably going to be a common one throughout
most things
In the universe there's probably going to be some central core themes to all of these
um, and
It could be it's just coincidence. It's just coincidence that they did this because the ones that wanted to eat babies died off
Or it could be that they just didn't have that for some reason eating babies was never a positive
A positive thing that came about in moral theories. It didn't happen
um, and if that's the case well, why not if it's if it's just random random
things happening and some group of people
Or a group an individual develops the desire to eat babies
And that becomes the moral standard in that culture
Um, you would expect that that would be possible under the case. It was just random
It's evolutionary and disadvantageous
Um, but I don't think that's the case doesn't seem like that's the case
It seems like there's some underlying pattern to the way things change
and it's not just
Cultural and it's I think it's probably something more that we still don't understand yet
It seems like a more plausible explanation
Would you say that culture is objective?
No
why
Because it's just something we made up
It's contingent on us. I think it's it seems to be something that we all gather around the fire. We all
Um, well objective exists, but it's not like a feature of the universe our culture. You're not going to see in aliens
Yeah
Well, hang on. Why why do you why do you say that because like we see culture develop the same
over over time, right? I guess it's like like certain cultures
like even even when um
People were colonizing like tribal villages. They would use examples of like these people are further behind. That's a different argument
I'm not making that argument that they would say like we're more advanced. We're more advanced civilization, right?
That's like but they view the people that they're talking to as like still part of a culture
Why is technology is objective?
So if you're saying if you're saying culture is synonymous with level of technology
Oh, yeah level of technology is objective. We thought we would definitely see that in other aliens every alien society
He's going to have the same progress of technological advancement
probably different different kinds of things but yes, we can objectively measure the ability to
Move atoms and forces in the universe and the more efficient ways to do that are better technologies by definition. So yes
technology is objective
Technology is but what about culture?
What culture is just like I like art
I like this hairstyle like no, that's not that's not objective. Well, that's what that's how I feel about morality, right?
I don't like to get stabbed
Yeah, but so do you think morality changes
for
Cultures at the same rate that cultural does like do this was the hairstyle and clothing style have the same level of
I don't know consistency as morality or do they change it very differently different different rates?
I don't well, I don't I don't I don't have an answer to that, but I also don't think it's relevant
Like why are the why does the rights matter?
Uh, well, so one is arbitrary and you can change however
Where you want with no constraints one there's constraints that means you can't change it arbitrarily
Okay, can you can you spell it out for me a little bit?
um
so like
Science and technology you can't change arbitrarily like I want a flying car now like it doesn't work that way
You can't just pick something and like it or just like it doesn't work that way
If there is some fact of reality that guides what you can and can't do like technology and
Then doing science stuff and you don't get to arbitrarily set the limits to whatever you want
Culture you can do whatever you want pick pick whatever style you want
Well, if we just don't use the word
If we don't use the words a culture, what if we just say meeting around the fire is objective?
I don't know what that means
Well, like every culture in the world would you agree that every culture in the world?
Um
Like at one stage probably met around the fire. Sure
Is that objective?
Uh, it's a fact that they did but like it's not a thing
I know it's not a thing like you can't point to
a like law of the universe that says
Meet around the fire, but that's how but how is that different from morality?
It's this like your argument before seemed to be that
um
Every society seems to follow it now. I'm just trying to understand but you said everything
Society around the world seems to follow that
um, so therefore
There must be some objective truth behind it
What uh, no like there's lots of things people do like eat eat the eat is eating objective
Well, I mean it's a thing, but it's not there's not a law of nature that says eat
food
But there's a consistent pattern to morality more progress. It's a thing you deserve it
Probably going to be consistent across all species probably a thing
Yeah, okay. Um, would you say like love is objective?
Uh as a chemical in the brain. Yes
Okay, right so so
I think yeah, so I it's hard because I think I think we're in somewhat in agreement and discriminant at the same time
So I I believe that love is a chemical in the brain like what produces these feelings
But the concept when I talk about love, I'm not talking about that chemical in the brain
I'm talking about this like shared like talk about love for my wife for the love of my little beagle
I I have this this like this. Uh, it's like this amorphous thing that I imagine in between between us this shared contract the shared
um
The share the sharing of experience. It's something not real
But it is real
Does that make sense
I think you mean it's it's not an abstract object. You you don't think it's actually a thing out there independent of minds. Yeah
Yeah, yeah
Yeah, so um, I'm still so okay. So maybe we can like try and um dive a little bit deeper
So when you say subjective, can you define for me subjective or objective like what's how you're using them?
Uh contingent on minds versus not contingent on minds
Okay
so
And when you say across all species, can you explain to me how a spider is moral?
I think everything is moral or immoral. So I'd say that
There is a law and that law affects things with minds and the more developed the mind is the more susceptible it is to the law
So spiders aren't very susceptible because they don't have a developed mind or technology
Okay, okay. I think I've I think I'm starting to understand. So you're saying like there is this thing in the universe called
um
Morality, I think there's actually a law like a physics that causes brains to develop in a specific way to develop certain moral inclinations
Okay, okay interesting. So I mean a spider doesn't have the ability to to touch that objective thing, right?
Like it does to some extent, but it doesn't to like a full extent. It's like a human
You yeah, but humans don't have the full extent either. Just honestly. Yeah. Yeah, and then yeah cool
And then like it could be like a more brainy alien life
Hypothetically that could have even a stronger
connection to this
Yeah, moral. Okay. Okay. Cool. I think I'm understanding that. Okay. Um
Well, where I don't
why so and what are the
Reasons that you think that excuse me that these that this thing that this thing exists
Because you describe it as unfound, right? So by definition, we haven't found it
So what are the reasons that you're deducing that this thing probably exists?
Because I think that the moral consistency across aliens in the universe is likely to be found and so why what explains?
Why do all things in the universe have the same pattern? I think it's because there's a factual thing. They're guiding the pattern
Okay, so when you say how can you make a statement like likely when it comes to aliens?
Intuition
That is like intuition a good
Is intuition a good way to determine anything to build a hypothesis. Yes intuition you can use to build a hypothesis
Right, but then so
All then by definition all all you'd have is like a hypothesis kind of unfalsifiable
No, it's definitely falsifiable because it makes predictions, but
Uh, yes, all I've ever said is I have a hypothesis. I never claimed to have like empirical evidence
Okay, interesting. So how would you falsify your position?
Well, if we discovered aliens that don't follow the pattern of morality that would that would falsify it
What about animals that didn't follow that pattern of reality? Sure same thing
So but before when I said like in spider you said well, they just didn't have the brain capacity to reach that
No, the pattern is is as you gain an intellectual acuity and technology
Then you start to see more things as immoral
So
Or have spiders gained an intellectual acuity or technology to match humans because if not then they wouldn't be at the same level of humans
Okay
So like if you met aliens
So if you saw aliens that were at the technological level of apes then they would have a moral morality parallel to apes
If they had technology equivalent to us they have morality parallel to us
They had technology greater than us that have a more accurate view of morality than us
Okay
Okay, interesting
All right, I think I think I'm starting to get what you're saying, but what what would you say to someone who says
It comes to you and says like
T jump. I think your entire theory is just begging the question. What do you say to that person?
Which premises are in the conclusion?
well the the
so
the intuition part
So
Begging the question is when you have a premise your conclusion is in the premises
so
Um for it to be begging the question. I would have to literally just be
Stating my conclusion in one of the premises. So it wouldn't it wouldn't be begging the question
You can say that it's uh not supported by any evidence or not empirical evidence, which is fine
It's not it's hypothesis. It doesn't have to be so but it's definitely not
Begging the question because the argument goes something like
um
If morality is objective, we will find patterns of morality in other species. We see other species. There are patterns in morality. Therefore morality is objective
So it wouldn't be begging the question
Okay, what is the most
Moral world in your perspective?
uh, that
Could potentially exist would be the best of all possible worlds would be world where there's no involuntary position of will
Okay, so can you please justify what you mean by involuntary imposition of will?
What
Why why is why should we care about imposition of will?
Why should we care?
Because when we use the word moral we refer to things and those things can be described
As a like if we try to identify the core similarity between all of those things the core similarity is involuntary positions of will
Yeah, but what can you please like why why do we adjust like why and why does that matter?
What so there are things
That's happened like
Somebody punches a baby. We feel that's immoral
So we put that on a list of things. This is the immoral things
We'd say see someone helping an old lady across the street. We put that on this on the moral things and we
Uh categorize this list and see what is the similarities between these things?
So this is this is what we call morality. These are these are the things we call morality
and well, what is the similarity we try to find the principle and that's
What we are asserting is the core similarity of all the moral and moral things
So I don't understand the question the point the involuntary position of will is just a label for the similarity between all the things
We already label as moral or more
So where I think where I think someone may say that you're beating the question is in that imposition of will right
Because by definition in position like can you maybe define what you mean by imposition there?
because the imposition is like a
Like
So I
And I'm not I'm not trying to be a dick. I'm actually just trying to have an interesting conversation
I hope you don't think I feel like I'm being a dick. Um
I'm just trying to get to the to the root of this so I understand
So in action or process imposing something that is um or that something that is being opposed, right?
Well, that's yeah, so that wouldn't be the same as will if I think what you're saying is imposition and will are the same things
Therefore it's repeating itself. It's tology. I don't those aren't the same thing. So you can have an imposition on will that's voluntary
so like if you ask for someone to
Put a weight on me that would be an imposition on you, but it wouldn't be against your will
So yeah, so the imposing there
Is what I think that does all the heavy lifting for you in this argument
No, I'm posing
Hey, man, look, I'm not I'm not I'm not big brain right like you. Okay. I don't I don't have it
I'm trying to understand help me understand. So but when you say imposition, right that word impose there
Right is doing the heavy lifting. It's just describing things. So so there's
punching a baby
Yeah, I don't know stealing money. Well, what are these doing?
What is the commonality of these things that why do we label?
These things as a moral or what is the minimum criteria for the things we label as immoral?
Imposition is like what seems like we're labeling there like it was just a label for things we we already see as immoral
It's just a common label. So it doesn't it's not doing any work. Just
Well, we see immoral things. Well, what's the commonality? It's imposing on will. That's I think that's the commonality between these things
Yeah, but the imposing of will there that is a negative thing. Would you agree?
Uh, well, I think it's immoral. Yes
Well, what that's that's yeah, I think I think I understand. So the point here is that
We see things that are moral or immoral
and
We already see them as bad the the word involuntary imposition of will doesn't say anything about good or bad
It's not it's irrelevant. What it says is what is the commonality of this class of instances?
Why is what is the similarity between punching a baby?
stealing from an old person
I don't know
Cheating on your taxes running red light. What is what is the similarity between the things we label as a moral immoral?
Well, they're all a great time
I'm just kidding. I said, but they're all a great time. I'm just kidding
punching babies
so so
Me saying the similarity between all of these things is involuntary ambition of will does absolutely zero work
It's just a it's just a descriptor. There's no yeah
But that's just there
Yeah, but that that descriptor
That descriptor of imposition of will that's already in people's brains a bad thing bad, right?
Uh, what I don't understand your argument here. So again, I'm just
I'm not making an argument. I'm I'm just trying to I well, I guess I am but I'm trying to provide a counter argument to what you're saying
So when you say that the best possible world is a world where there where people have no imposition of will
I'm I'm asking you. Okay. Why is imposition of all bad and you say well and then you defined
Uh, you said it was bad because we can all agree upon it, right? But I'm saying why why is that imposition bad?
I don't again. I have no idea what you're saying here, but it seems like what you're saying is something like
uh
The word imposition people have a negative connotation in their mind. Therefore this negative connotation in their mind is
Relevant to my argument in some way. It has literally nothing to do with anything in my argument. So it has zero value
Um, you could label it as blue. It would make no difference. So like if all immoral actions if the commonality was blue
Um, then that would just that would be the commonality. It has doesn't doesn't make a difference what we call it
It's just saying here's a bunch of actions that we see as bad. Is there a common feature?
Yes, it's blue blue is the common feature. So anything with the property of blue
Is likely to be immoral
That's that's because of all of the things we see as immoral
They have the common feature of blue. It's not doing any work to say that. It's just saying
Here's a pattern. Here's the core similarity in the pattern. Therefore we can infer with induction in the future
Anything that has that property is going to be a part of the pattern
So it's not doing any work. There's no work being done with that word
Okay, well, well, is there is there another way that you could rephrase it
Rephrase the like the best possible world without using that word imposition
what
I don't I don't understand the question like because like okay, so
So imposition right serves up like a negative emotions, right? Would you agree?
Sure, I mean no impositions can be moral too. So I don't know like imposing isn't that's inherently bad
But it seems like you're getting caught on this like people inherently see the word one way, which is literally irrelevant
Um, it's like you can again just replace it with blue. I say
There's a pattern of actions that we see as immoral actions
The common feature in this pattern is blue
Anything that's blue is immoral. Therefore the best of all possible worlds the world with no blue
No, no actions that have a property of blue. There you go. That's the best of all possible worlds. You just have to
Fill no action. No
Okay
Okay
My brain is like I've got like a million million variables going off and now like the programs just crashed. Um
So
Okay, well, maybe maybe a good way to maybe a good way to uh to
Talk about this is is the how would you say that?
So I'm a moral anti-realist, right? Or I'm moral subjective
I don't I don't really believe in morals the same way that you believe in morals
But I see them as like things that we use like love to
It's like I can say it's it's immoral subjective. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, right. Right. So, um
How would you
How what would be your like what why do you think that I'm incorrect in my thought process?
Because I think that my testable predictions will be confirmed in the future and that's it
Okay
But couldn't you say well you see I believe I have testable predictions that I'm I can make
like right now
Cool like that's if you can build a different I can make I can make I can make novel testable predictions right now
And we can see them come true
Awesome, that would be great evidence
Yeah, sure. So like an example. I'll bring up is my friend elissa woodpeck alexander who was the woman who had coffee and thought it was a bad thing
So that's not novel
Novel means predicting something we don't already know yet. So you have to predict something that we would expect to see in the future
Well, when I was saying novel, sorry, I meant like like unique like it's not normal to think coffee is bad and from our perspective, right?
Okay, let's remove the word novel we can make well novel kind of what makes something a
Evidence of a position is that it's a novel testable prediction. So it's a new thing. We don't always like anybody can make a test of prediction
I predict I'm going to pick my nose in three seconds. Bam. Bam test of prediction
So what makes something evidence is making a novel test of prediction about something we don't expect to see
And so if you infer a pattern that we have no other reason to infer and you get it right that's evidence of your model
So if you're model and subjective morality, you have no reason to expect that
Aliens would follow the exact same moral pattern we do
That's you you would not expect that on your moral subjective. There would be no reason for this to be the case, right?
But I'm saying if it's objective then we have a reason to think they have the same pattern
Um
Yeah, I struggle with the the alien question, but um, oh, oh, because I don't think we can go far with that
Well, no, so you you said earlier that
You have we have no I forget what you said you said we can't infer about aliens because we just don't have any information about them
Or something, right? No, we can't make any we can't make any assumptions at all
So under your view, we have no reason to expect aliens would follow our pattern and morality
That's not something we would expect to see we have no reason to infer that
No, no, you would be a non sequitur even ask that question
It'd be like like I don't know possibly possibly not like it'd be
We have no we have no way of determining, right? So there's there's no evidence that they follow the pattern
There's no evidence. They don't follow the pattern. We have no reason to think they do any more than they don't
Or that they follow a different pattern. We have no evidence or anything
So if I predict what we're going to see
That I think they're following this pattern and everyone we discover is going to be following this pattern
Now my hypothesis is very specific. It says there's a specific thing we're going to see
And yours is like, well, I don't know if we're going to see that we might we might not we got I got nothing with aliens
Yeah, sure, but right like
That's but that's that's only because like I have no way to evaluate what an alien even is, right?
you have no
You have nothing no reason to expect
Like imagine we have a hundred doors and you at like which door is that the alien going to be behind and you're like
I don't know it could be any door and I'm like it's going to be a door 92 92 is the door
And not and all the other doors are wrong. No, it's this door
This is the only one that has aliens and we open the door and it's behind 92
That's good evidence of my hypothesis. I'm probably right you saying well, I don't know it could be 92
But couldn't be 92 my prediction was very specific and novel and got it right
Oh, yeah in this instance 100%
But that's that's only with the aliens if we move back to panel earth for a second
Like if we if we if do you would you agree that if we had a hundred children, right?
Born from babies stuck them in a room and we told them there are two doors
We told them never open the red door ever
It is the worst thing that anyone could do kill someone that before you see them open this red door
And you taught them this their entire lives. Do you think that they would find it immoral to open that red door?
Sure, I don't I guess
Okay, cool. So so so how about my point was is that?
the reason I
Think I'm right and you're wrong is that I'm have a prediction one of the doors hundred doors
Door 92 and if we see this that's good evidence of my hypothesis
So and in this case door 92 is that they're going to follow the same pattern of morality as
Humans are on the trajectory that we're on so it's it's that's the the door 92
There's a prediction about what's going to happen and what we're going to see in the moral patterns of other speedy alien species
It's going to be in the same pattern
That's where on
And you're like from your position, you don't have any reason to believe that you don't they may be that they may not be that
They may be something differently. They could be any of the other doors
Yes, so I have no
Right, and that's the point. This is a prediction
I don't have any empirical evidence if I did I'd have a noble prize
So I'm making a prediction about the future evidence we will have eventually
And so I'm making a future prediction. I have eventually. Yeah
I think I mean they could be any of the water kills those
No, no, not really. No, it's not. No, no, no, it's absolutely not guaranteed like I mean there's um
Furby furby's furby paradox. Yeah. Yeah, stupid paradox. It's wrong
Yeah, and it's it's also wrong because like we could let's do another stream one day. We'll talk about aliens
But it's it's also wrong because they're variables. Uh, we don't know the variables
We don't know all the variables like it's uh, we just making guesstimates with those variables. Um, that's
But anyway, it's what everything in science is is like, we don't know what's gonna happen
I predict this is gonna happen. That's that's what you're doing. You're making a guess. It's hypothesis. Yeah
I'd like maybe at like stage like
00001 but like
Besides that but the literally all scientists do every day whips weekly interactive massive particles
I'm gonna guess it's a whip dark dark explaining dark matter
Like they're just making shit up. They say I'm gonna combine this the all the stuff
We know about in such a way that makes a prediction of this
Yeah, like I said, I agree with you as a step 00001
But like once you get to like we're talking like these like high level
Look, can we just go back to my my room idea with the doors, right? So like under your framework
There's some doors in the room. There's a red door. We've told 100 kids don't open this red door. It's a horrible thing
Their intuition would tell them it's bad to open that red door
I have no idea how this relates to the topic. What you you can manipulate people. Yes
Congratulations. Yes. Okay. Cool. So but that would you would you agree that that intuition is telling them that
That's wrong to open that door. Sure. You can manipulate people's intuitions. Yes. Okay, cool
So you have moral intuitions and the rest of the world have moral intuitions
Right, and you're saying these moral intuitions point to some objective thing in the universe, correct?
Yes
Okay, so
Why would it not be?
Why why can't we not see the world is just one big?
manipulation of of and
Chants of like how we've evolved how like fire is warm nice to be around fire like so therefore, you know people stand near fire
Knife going into leg bad heresy heresy like why can't we think of like life like that? Why doesn't that make more sense?
If that's the case and it's purely just a manipulation
Then we would not expect to see that all the aliens that never came in contact would have the same manipulation, right?
That's very unlikely. It's very unlikely that
If we are it's all just a manipulation of human societies that other cultures would have the same manipulation
It's very they would probably have a different manipulation
Don't like the blue door don't like the red door don't like the tree
They would have different manipulations
So the fact that a bunch of unrelated societies who never interacted have the exact same manipulation
Is very unlikely that seems like a bad hypothesis
It seems like a much better hypothesis that there is some guiding force controlling
What they do or don't see as a moral if they all have the same
Uh intuition and none of them talked to one another beforehand, right?
Uh
Like it's like language
Suppose there's language evolved in different cultures all around the world
So it's like it's language an objective thing of the universe
What
If it involved in the exact same language that would be really good evidence that there was like one universal language or something
So like if if imagine that
There are
Thousands of cultures all on the planet that never spoke to another and they all developed exactly latin
They all came up with exactly latin
That's strange, right? You'd be like there's something controlling that there's something in their brain or something that's forcing them to make this language
And not something else, right?
So if there is like a consistent pattern that happens everywhere
Independent of them talking to one another
That's not social. It's not a social construction because if it's a social construction, then you'd expect that whatever
society engineered it
Would be the only one doing this and it would be transferred through interactions with the society
It wouldn't be in all of the other societies all over the world and all over whatever metric you want
In the same way that would make no sense
To me, this just goes back to biology, right? Like like why does every person in the world grow fingernails?
It's like well
Because it's how we're wired like do you are naturalist in regards to consciousness?
Like do you believe consciousness is just like your brain?
Firing neurons and etc. Etc. There's physicalists. Yes. Yes, physicalists. Yes. I'd like I said, I'm new to this
I'm trying to become a philosopher. Oh teacher. I'm really trying
But I'm you know, I don't I'm five years behind you man
You like you said you've been doing YouTube five years. So
Um, I'm trying right? Um, I got some comments. I thought it'd be cool to read out. So seby said
Hey, David, I'm a scrub of tea jump. Don't be put off by his aggressive action today. He's in a bad mood
He's actually a sweetheart. You're doing great job so far. Well, thank you seby. Are you are you in a bad mood to jump?
Or you this is just
I mean, maybe I guess so I'm getting more depressed because I
I got dumped like six months ago now. I haven't found a new interam I'll girlfriend
So I'm definitely getting more depressed as time goes on for sure
So are you comfortable talking about what you told me prior to um, I don't care. I've never been uncomfortable
I mean, I'm uncomfortable talking about literally anything with anybody, but I don't mind
Yeah, cool. So you you mentioned before that you're a high-functioning autistic
Have high-functioning autism and you made a joke that it was actually true. What was that joke?
Yeah, but I'm my special interest is Instagram models hot ones
Like and I was like, that's a funny joke, but that's actually like unironically what what you're into so
100%
If we've got some hot Instagram models, um, you know
And you want a new boyfriend who'd like to talk about morality then hit him up in the comments
Um, you know, there's Australian girls. They're they're hot
We can relate we can relate it's cool
Uh, so tom does tech said, um, the prescription make sorry wrong one. Um
He said punching a baby is a moral therefore punching a baby is moral
No, I never said that it wasn't the argument. So
Uh
There is a pattern
If punching a baby we see as a moral
No, if you want to is punching a baby a moral or is it subjective or whatever we'd say well, if it's a moral
There's gonna be a pattern with other a moral moral thing we can make
Uh infer that if we follow this pattern to some extreme, we'll find that
Like for example in the future
Veganism is a moral if if it's the case that punching a baby is a moral
And morality is objective and we're on this trajectory of improving moral claims then in the future
We'll claim a similar action that has the same commonality of involuntary vision
Will be seen as the immoral in the future
Make a prediction about a future interaction that we have and if that gets true then it's good evidence that there's some underlying pattern
So at no point did I say punching a baby is a moral because punching a baby is a moral
I think it's perfectly fine to punch a baby
That's going to be clipped, uh, sorry he said, um, why is the uh, Fermi paradox wrong?
Oh, it's just stupid paradox thinking that
Um, why don't we see any signs of other and of other species of life because they've all destroyed themselves or some nonsense
I wouldn't make a difference if they destroyed themselves. It's more likely that
It takes a certain amount of time to develop technologically enough to be able to
produce radio waves or whatever
um, and so
The idea that they and even once they do produce radio waves radio don't go away. It's still there floating around in space
And so we'd probably still hear them even if they destroyed themselves. It wouldn't make any sense. It's a stupid paradox
stupid
Do you have a, um
Like a theory that you throw up against that or like an idea?
Because I know fermi isn't Fermi paradox like the idea that's like
Um, where are the aliens like that? We should see them, right? That's like the concept like why don't you think we've seen aliens?
Uh, that's a good question. I have no idea
Yeah, okay
um
So tom does take again everyone should go subscribe to tom does take he's that makes awesome tech videos his friend of mine. Um,
so other three sub different, um guiding forces to humans
No, and not all humans have the same guiding force
No
They're not all affected by it in the same way like clearly there's psychopaths, but there are blind people
Blind people can't see does that mean that um site is subjective like no
Interactions with photons is not subjective. So like they're the fact that some people are affected by
Actually existing laws differently isn't evidence that they're not actually existing laws
Does does your theory only work with aliens? Like for example, if we never discovered aliens or let's say aliens did not exist
No, you say
Okay, all right
Damn it. Okay, and you can also use, um
other animals evolved from aliens
Other animals evolving higher levels of consciousness
They'll also experience this so you can use other local animals, too
Yeah, I I've beefed with the word consciousness, but
Do you still want what beef do you have with the word? Okay? All right? Let's get let's put
Weird strange confusion on the word conscious. It means qualia. You have qualia experience. That's consciousness problem solved
Yeah, to me it's just begging the question all over again, right like
so
Well, maybe not begging the question. Maybe
Um, I look I don't want to get into if you want to be is saying the same thing twice
That's what a tautology is. So maybe that's what you're going for tautology
Maybe maybe teach me the words. Okay. Like I don't I have thoughts. I don't have the words. All right, but like like the word potato
Is a is a sud it's it's kind of tasty when you fry it. It's a good word. Go with the word potato
Yeah, um, okay. Look, um, yeah, I had this whole conversation with uh, shun and q when when she was on and I was really drunk
But I think I did an okay job good way to start a conversation
Explain it. Well, yeah, normally the guests choose the most
Fucking like straight. It's so funny. Should have picked absent should have picked absent
So funny. I had, you know, uh, michael jones inspiring focy on we drink, you know christian apologists straight scotch
Boom, that's what we're drinking. I'm having a satanist on the head brother of the temple of satan where I live
Um, he wants to have tea and scones. He's gonna bake me some pumpkin scones
So I just think it's funny that the satanist chooses tea and scones and the christian chooses hard scotch
I just love that. That's the that's the environment that I've created for this. Um
This thing here. Um tom conscious this text said
Still do you still want to be president?
Yes, uh, tell me your problem with consciousness. No no evasions here. No dodging
So, okay, so I need to it's such a long long thing. So like
um
Have you heard of um the mind matter like the mind matter problem with like eastern philosophies
Like eastern religions and stuff the mind matter problem
Like from idealists, you mean we're like matter can't produce a mind. That's why they think consciousness is fundamental
Yeah, so like, uh, so uh, rupert spirit in his book. Um, the nature of consciousness. He talks about the idea that um matter
So we we experience everything through the mind first, right?
So sure we experience everything through the mind first and then we experience matter only through the mind
And so therefore matter is an is the assumption not mind
Okay, see with me there. Yep
Okay, so he so then the the way and he said that where where it gets a little conspiratorial
But we're programmed. Well, that's right. So that part right there is correct if you start epistemically
If you just start from like cogito, I think they're for you
The first thing you have is consciousness. Consciousness is the most fundamental thing when you experience other things. They're less
Um fundamental to you than consciousness, but that's only if you're like a solipsist
That's all all you are once you get beyond solipsism and say, oh, there's some difference between my imagination reality
I imagine a unicorn. No unicorn. No, no touchy unicorn. No feely unicorn. No smelly unicorn. No unicorn
So there's some difference between your the experiential world
And your imagined world in your head and you have to differentiate between those two
So you come up with a methodology which is science
To try to give you an idea of which things exist outside of your head and which things exist inside of your head
And that's where you get the matter stuff from and so this methodology that can confirm
Non-imaginary things is very very good very very effective
And it shows there's a lot of this matter stuff and not a whole lot of this consciousness stuff
And so if you want to try to establish well, what is
Consciousness because we know it's a thing clearly it exists
The debate is on what stage it's at because we know that there's there's like physics
And then there's chemistry biology brains consciousness. That's the the naturalist worldview and the
rubric spirit
Panpsychist idealist dualist want to say now consciousness is at the physics before the physics. It's what's the quantum field stuff
It's fundamental and we're like why in the hell should we believe that like because
The only evidence we have is that consciousness
Is at the brains?
We don't see it do anywhere else
Like if rocks could get up like in a disney movie and start dancing and that would be a great argument
It would make tons of sense to say consciousness was fundamental and that other things
Had consciousness outside of brains, but we never see it outside of brains. It doesn't happen. There's no logical contradiction with the tree
Waving hand signals to you or talking like in in the disney movie, but it doesn't happen
And so it seems much more plausible to say that yeah
Consciousness is a product of brains just like pineapples are a product of pineapple trees
Why there's no reason to think pineapples are the fundamental nature of reality
We just came to a pineapple in the middle of a forest and we've never seen the pineapple ever in the history of ever
And we have no idea where it came from
Well, what's the best explanation that it's a product of the other things that we see around us or that it's a fundamental nature of reality
Not the fundamental nature of reality. That's never the right answer
Everybody wants to think that their pets pet theory is the fundamental nature of reality. It's always always wrong
it's much more
I get that but like
Like so the way they would push back on that right now and say like okay consciousness is like this big white room
That me you are sitting in right and then I say to you. I would know you say to me
There's bullshit. There's more than there's more than just what's inside this room, right?
And so you run outside the room and you take a photo of something like a
Flower and you bring it back in you go. Look here's a photo of something outside of the room
And I say yes, but you're showing that to me within consciousness
So like everything that you try and explain is they can always try just to feed it by saying yes
But you experience that within consciousness
But so I don't agree with it, right? So this is so just this is this is why it's a long conversation. So
Well, I think like none of that really addresses because the core criticism is where it's going
We both agree consciousness exists. We both know that or is something we what?
Yeah, you see this is what i'm getting to right? So
so
Look, maybe we needed hard liquor for this all right because because this is gonna so, okay
Hear me out, right? This is where this is where I kind of call bullshit, right? So
So
And and I look I know I'm gonna get roasted for this because I know it's not thought out really well. I've got the
black balls
Like companion consciousness to consciousness up there
Too scared to open it up yet, but this is where I'm going with so
so
I'm afraid to open it
It's big man. Like so, um, so
The um, so, you know, I got friends who are like that, right? They're mine mine first, right? They're
You know
Relatives are one first and they'll always point back to the being in the room and I'm like, okay
Well, what's what's kind of bullshit about that is this unfalsifiable claim, right?
But then I'm kind of appealing to like science
Which is part of like the natural world which is but like I'm already presupposing naturalism
So the way I think unfalsifiable claims aren't a problem. You can make those in science. They're not actually bad
There's other methodologies to okay. They're fine, but
I want just clarification when you say consciousness or you don't agree consciousness exists
I'm getting there. I'm getting there. Okay
So what I do is a pushback to him is I say, okay
I'm just gonna say consciousness is bullshit and then he goes. What do you mean?
And I go, well, I just believe that we have neurons firing in our brains and they give the illusion of consciousness, right?
the illusion of of
Being agents of thinking or whatever, but it's just bullshit
I just it's a word like love. It doesn't actually exist
Right. I don't think that works. So like okay. It probably doesn't look. I'm just I'm just
It probably doesn't but when I say
Consciousness what I mean is I have us. I have a direct experience of stuff
Like I I see a tv. I see a camera now this experience. I'm having
Exists it may just be a product of neurons. That's totally fine. I'm a physicist
I think it's just a product of neurons
But that experience is clearly an existing thing. Like I'm clearly experiencing a camera
Well, I'm just being you see this is where okay. So you know how like
Someone will say consciousness is like
Is is like the opposite of what it's like to be a rock, right?
That's what some like have you heard that spring? Yes, it's a very silly saying same
Yeah, and I go no I said what it's like to be a rock is what it's like to be a rock
Rocks don't have a what is like, right?
So so like so whatever where it whatever where the experiencing part is
Something that I think happens, but I don't think it's a real thing. Like I don't think it's a
It's it's an it's an amorphous like it's naturally it's an amorphous happens. So it happens you agree it happens, right?
Yeah, oh, I have I kind of have to it's I have to because of the proper basic beliefs like right at the foundation of like
So if it happens does that exist
It exists but not in the way that yes, it exists
You feel the
All consciousness means is that there is this
Experience we're having and it doesn't mean it's real
It could be a combination of things in your brain as could be if it's just an illusion
That's fine too, but it's real the sense we're having is itself a real thing that exists in reality somewhere
It's somewhere in reality because if it wasn't then it couldn't happen
So the fact that it happens means it's in reality in some sense
But what's causing it is the unknown. We don't know what's causing it
We don't know what's made of that parts irrelevant
But we know that that sense does have to exist in reality because we're having it
Yeah, with this that's what I'd say
I guess I guess I'm just pushing because that's what I don't like I don't like when people say
Where do you think consciousness comes from and I just say like fuck your consciousness?
I think there's just neurons firing in our brain
Right and then like because I think what what happens what happens when someone starts saying consciousness
Is it's like when pan-psychists start using the word like quantum?
They start like misrepresenting what it actually means
They start thinking that there's more there than it actually is like I said, you can oh everything's connected bro
Like no, okay, like if you know you can talk about quantum
Physics you're talking about maths. You're not talking about anything else, right?
You're talking about like you need to be brightened down formulas not not like everything's connected
So that's the issue I have with the word consciousness because I think yes consciousness agrees
Meaning you can understand consciousness, but when we start talking to people who are like well, no
Consciousness clearly exists and we don't know where it comes from. It's like no fuck you like like
I push back on that and say no, it's just neurons firing
Yeah, so I definitely agree that there are many people who put in lots of baggage into the word to
Include things that aren't actually included. So they try to like
Add in baggage to the word to justify positions that are more than what the word actually means
So like this happens all the time when you talk about
solipsism versus other words you try to include the external world in your personal experience and
It doesn't work. So I agree that there are
Things where people try to include more than they should by using the word and that's wrong of them
But I don't think saying consciousness doesn't exist. It's the correct way to address that
I think of you more like what do you mean by consciousness? You ask them
Yeah, I'm I'm saying sassy
So but for me, I think that we can clearly like if if somebody was murdered in front of you
And you want to who who who who killed them like that's a fair question to ask you don't need to ask
Well, was there really a murder?
Gotcha. Um, and so the same thing applies to consciousness. We know that we have
Experience experience is a thing. I'm having it right now
And so we do it's a fair question to ask what is causing that experience? What does it come from?
Whatever
It isn't a fair question to say
But is there really an experience?
Um, so if you're the one having the experience
It's logically impossible for you to not have the experience because you're having it
It's literally a contribution. Yeah, I I agree
I agree with that. That's why my that's why look. I'm too scared like I told you I'm just get over that book
I don't I can't I'm not formalized. I'm not ready to start formalizing conscious like my ideas of consciousness in a book yet
I just have had pushback with uh, you know the eastern thought
Well, I try and push back on the eastern thought a little bit because I just think it it doesn't answer any of the questions
I'm probably um, but
Going right back to going right back to morality. Um
I want to give you some questions from my wife. Okay
Now I sat there and we had the morning coffee this morning. No, you should not have an open relationship
I know
What about with instagram models, right? What about like, what if it's okay for me but not for you?
Oh
It's kind of like trying like, um, uh, what's it speed stop lights and stop signs like for me, they're optional for you
You should you need to
Um, yeah, okay. Well, um, don't bring a drive and don't
Responsible responsible, um
So, but like what I mean is um, so, you know
We're we're too like geniuses like we're both like on
Einstein level smart, right? But there are people, um, like my wife. That's a fucking horrible joke, but you know
Clip that up black male
To um, you know, there are people who don't think about these things a lot, right?
And then don't think about morality. So I just can throw some like simple questions at you
So like when I when I said to her this morning or to people who don't think about this a lot
Um, uh, you know, I'll interview you can teach on people is an objective morality that morality is the same
Like that there is an objective like a law to the universe
The first first thing is what about in countries where women have to cover up or what about in country?
Like what about people who don't don't believe the same things? They're immoral
They're one they're immoral. It's like
They're bad. They're doing bad things
Okay, so how do we determine but they think it's moral, right? Would you agree that they think it's moral?
Uh, most of them know but in some cases yes, and I'd say that they're wrong. So it's like many people
Can be wrong about things. There are objective facts and when we if there's an objective fact
Um, and some people could be wrong about that objective fact. There are people who believe the world is flat
So they're they're wrong. Um, and so if
If there is a law of morality
Um, if the law was the most powerful law in the universe and forced everyone to obey
Then no one could disagree
if it's not the most powerful law in the universe and other combinations of laws of physics can
Um, subvert it then the fact that some people would disagree
Makes perfect sense. It's perfectly fine for people to disagree because there's other laws that can cause other kinds of beliefs that aren't
In alignment with this law
and so
The fact that there's disagreement or people don't disagree
Is only a problem if the law was the most powerful thing in the universe and there was literally no way to
uh
not be affected by it
More than any other law, but since I don't think it's
like
The strong force of the universe
It's not going to necessarily have a hundred percent effects on all beings or the same effect on all beings
But even in those countries we still see more progress
Saudi Arabia made it legal for women to drive recently
past
Sick, but so
How does someone like pragmatically now? How does someone determine what's right and wrong?
Pragmatically
Because this is all fun to like talk about like like morality as an objective thing
But like how does someone determine like let's say they're you know
There's there's two buttons in a room and they're both doing something different
They had us just someone to turn what's the right thing and what's the wrong thing to do
What well, so like if you believe in objective morality you could use that as a standard to assess which one's right or wrong if
You would you kind of need a standard to to ask the question. What is pragmatically does?
Yeah, so
Let's go back to the vegan thing then. So what's wrong with killing a sentient creature?
I think it's an involuntary position of will
What's uh, well, I'm just gonna ask again. What's what's wrong with that? I think that is wrong
This I think that is a description of the essence of wrongness
But what if position against my will to not eat bacon?
Um, so imposition of will technical language time only applies to yourself and your property and so if
The pig is conscious its body is its property and so your will to violate its property rights
Is an imposition on a different will and so at any given instance if there's two different wills
Um, then both wills have to be in consent for it to be a not an involuntary position of will so
It's you can't say
If I want if I will to punch you in the face
It's immoral for me not to be able to punch you in the face because there's two wills in that situation and so forth to be
An involuntary position all wills in the situation would have to consent
Okay, uh, so why aren't you vegan?
Because I like being immoral it makes me feel good
Okay, so so to me, um
I don't know how that works
Can you explain to me how that works like why like so if you think something is immoral
Like why cannot someone else do something that's greatly immoral and then just
Like how do we say the exact same thing? We could say why why do you
Murder people because because I enjoy murdering people like you could give the exact same response. There's no there's no
Non-symmetry there the symmetry is the exact same
So why have we outlawed murder but we haven't outlawed killing?
pigs
Because we haven't gotten to the technological stage where it's so unnecessary that society as a whole has
Grown to the point where they see it as immoral. So if the vast majority people saw it as immoral, we would make it illegal
You say to me
To me this reeks
Fucking reek like I can't even see because of how fucking bad this reeks of subjective
Subjectivism that people like the taste of bacon. So they're willing to turn a blind eye to their morals where then they
Yeah, so
So but but you're saying that no like people know it's immoral and it's only applicable to change your
Change it when you we get to
technologically advanced stuff, right
Well, so so I mean you are subjective desires are subjective
So if you're asking why do I do something or why do they do something that's
It's going to be subjective. It has to be subjective like that's
They're doing it because of subjective whatever is affecting them
If morality it's objective. That's completely independent of whatever people subjectively choose to do. So
It's just like saying what is the distance to the moon? It's 255,000 miles
But what if someone wants to like that's their subjective opinion. They can do whatever they want
They're just going to be wrong. That's that's fine. So
asking about motivations of individuals is going to be subjective necessarily
But whether or not their actions are in correspondence to reality
Is completely independent of whether they subjectively choose to do whatever
So how does
Okay, all right, so I'm a bit confused with like so the way I understand that we like organize society is we decide what's right and wrong
as a society
And then we organize laws and rules. That's not subjective. All subjective. Okay, cool. All right. Well, then we may agree
You see this what I mean? We may possibly agree
I'm not fully boarding on your objective alien like universal truth thing
But I at least at the pragmatic level it seems that we agree that morality is just subjective, right?
Yeah, pragmatically by definition
Like well, okay
solved
problem solved we're in agreement with
But I just don't know how do you I just like I you you just said it like mine
You just said exactly what I was thinking like I just think like morality is just like an amorphous thing that we use like a tool that we use, right?
All right, so pragmatic morality as in what we do to make society's work
Is subjective it's contingent on what we need to do in society to make survival a thing
And that's completely different from objective morality
So like if we were to adopt objective morality right now and no one ever
Ate any living thing lots of people would die especially in poor nations
And so that would be bad. It would be not pragmatic. It'd be very unpragmatic to adopt objective morality objective morality would
Kill a lot of people because objective morality like
Do the give all your possessions to the poor because they need more than you that's that would be a moral thing to do
And so adopting objective morality would not at all be pragmatic. It would be the opposite of pragmatic. It would be suicidal
And so there's clearly a difference between pragmatic morality, which is
What benefits society and objective morality, which is what is objectively the correct thing to do
for
Benefiting people's wills or whatever and those are two completely separate questions pragmatic is subjective. It's just here's what we can do
When do you think it will be?
when do you think it
You you will go vegan like what what technological level?
When we can generate a better tastier thing
easier and cheaper
than bacon
So if you make artificial bacon and it tastes better than bacon and it's cheaper
I'll just buy the better tasting bacon
What about have you tried any of like to eat beef?
Yes, how do you beef have you tried any of like the beyond burgers impossible burgers or anything like that?
Yes, they've gotten a lot better recently. I definitely think that's the case
Like I tried them when they first came out and they tasted like just dirt is disgusting
Now they're doing a lot better at tasting
Edible but still not the best and they're more expensive too
Okay, cool. So, um, if they if they became like
Are they are they at a level there where they're tasting off if they were the same price?
Would it be for you? Would you stop eating beef burgers?
if they tasted the same
I probably wouldn't care. I'd probably be ambivalent agnostic
So I'd probably just try one one day and try the next the next day. And so I would go back and forth
I could only stop eating meat if it were they were objectively better
And this was just a better thing to buy on the menu like why don't I get tater tots because
Because there's cheese fries and cheese fries are objectively better than tater tots
And that's why I don't get tater tots. And so the same thing would apply to
Beyond burgers if they're just objectively taste better, I'm going to get the thing that objectively tastes better
Would you say I want to throw like a hypothetical at you, right? If you say let's say that
Beef babies were made of bacon and they tasted good. Oh, it would be tough
Yeah, I always went there but say let's say you're on the right track of where I'm a hypothetical is going
But say let's say there's a beef burger, right?
And let's say it's double as good as the beyond burger and possible burger
Would you say that's like pretty pretty like it's the best beef burgers, but we double as good as the
any possible burger
Would you agree to that?
Just like
For the sake of the argument, okay now, let's say there was a beef burger
But it was like beef 2.0, okay
But the way they they got this beef to be um, and this beef was this beef burger was double as good
As a regular beef burger, right?
But the way they got the beef to be so good is they tenderized the meat while it's still alive
So what they did is they got a baseball bat and just for fucking months just beat the shit out of this cow, right?
What would be the moral would you get beef 2.0?
Uh, yes, I would not give a shit. So I I'm I have autism. So I don't feel empathy or anything
So I don't care how much you beat beat the cow. It's legal. I'm getting I'll get my beef burger if it tastes good
Okay, cool. Let's say this is beef
This beef 3.0, right?
And they tenderize the beef, right with baseball bats
But then they're also punching a baby in the face on top of that and the tears soak into the meat, right?
Are you getting up beef?
Hey, the babies don't die
Okay, so you're choosing beef 3.0 rather than beef 2.0 and point
So I would say that my decision would be based on my like
Social how I would be seen socially in that instance if society didn't care. I'd like beef 3.0. Don't give a crap
um in our current society, I'd say that
It would be seen as unpleasant. So pragmatically, it's a bad decision because I'm pragmatic morally. I'd probably say no not beef 3.0
um, okay
Objectively, they're all immoral. So let's say like it was a vacuum. No one would find out about it
No one would find out about
I'm still because of the society the pragmatic thing and like probably not but I'm I'm a foodie. So let's say I want to taste it
I want to try it. I want to try it. Okay. Okay. Let's say there's beef 5.0, right?
and um, it's not just babies being punched in the face, but it's also
Um, your family being punched in the face. Oh, um, dude, you'd have to pay me not to eat it. Oh my god
Okay, so like you can see where I'm going though like it's like
It's interesting, right? Because you obviously have high functioning autism
So you probably think differently to most people but most people would say like no like at beef 2.0
They'd say no, that's fucking immoral to tenderize an animal lots to the live. They would say that's immoral
But the problem is literally what happens
Well, no, not not what I'm talking like baseball bats like
Being shit over for months. They they kill very bad. That's what happens to pigs like that happens in their torture chambers all the time
So that's the thing that happens
Yeah, well, you know, everyone in the comments is going to disagree with you. Um, and it'll be wrong
Um, but you know, they are they are killed horribly
If anyone wants to check out there's a video I'll link in the description. Um, which is the video I talk about how free-ranged
beautiful
Piggies who get belly rubs
Die and they get it's pretty well, but yeah, they are they are like tortured enduring life
Like depending like some some like some farms
Like even doesn't matter like most farms. Yes factory farms. It's fucked. They're tortured, right?
But like the the like let's even if we had the most like if we even if we had like farmer bob and farmer bob
Like let the pig sleep on his couch and he rubbed their belly every night and gave him little kisses on the forehead
Like I did everything the still the way they killed at the slaughterhouse is fucking horrible
Yeah thrashing like to make to make eating eat moral you'd have to wait for the desire of natural causes and then it'll be fine
Yeah, I'd have no problem with that. Um, in fact, I would even argue
This is where I I had an animal rights activist on I would even argue that it would be immoral not to eat
A creature that's died of um old age because then you're choosing to create more waste in the world
Um, the trucks that delivered your veggie burgers hit more bugs in the way
Like, you know, I mean like it's like like the more moral thing to do would be to eat that carcass, right?
Um, so I imagine I'd say I said that one a more I'll put that on a moral. Yeah, it's not obligated to eat
like it's actually
I would say if you're going to follow the vegans arguments like that
We're that if you're going to subscribe to vegan arguments that we shouldn't we shouldn't eat animal
animals and
And all that like we're going to subscribe if you if they want to be consistent for them
It would they would have to eat their dead dog. They're dead pig. They're dead
Whatever that have to eat to be morally consistent
And also it's for vegans to be consistent with the arguments they make. Yeah, that's that. Yeah
And also the same thing was like if you if if you've eaten your calorie limit for the day and you dare get that
Slice of vegan cheesecake. You're a fucking sick pig. How dare you
Take like you didn't need that food and there were bugs that were killed
There were rodents that were killed in the in the um thing
There was land that was destroyed habitats to make that vegan cheesecake for you
Immoral like just for your taste pleasure like you can make the same arguments and that's the issues I have with veganism
Yeah, there's the one that's like in order to make the plants you have to kill rodents
Like to clean the land and that's that's also
immoral but but like I said, I hate vegans
But I I kind of am one so like it's annoying though because
So just to give the vegan counter that is well, yes
But we feed the most amount of food from plants
We feed to livestock and that's why even if you were to just eat plants
You're still killing less of those rodents and um things. Anyway
Let's wrap this up with a few last questions. Um, so I got some some juicy ones, right? Um, not juicy
I I ask them to almost every person but I want to get one from a few from my superchat. I'll take one
If you don't mind right now. Yeah, go for it at the pinnit
Don fulman
Big supporter channel appreciate him since morality is an objective trait in the universe could morals evolve to fit the environment
The subjective finds themselves in does morality evolve it's possible if morality is an objective law of physics laws of physics
Do change what's possible they change? Yes
Cool
Anymore
I do but you can go for yours because I just for the reason I wanted to do that one
Is because I forgot to pin it and so if I unpinned it, I would lose it and I wouldn't be able to remember it
Oh, yeah, that's cool. Um, just um, you can read read more if you want. Oh sure
If there's any any good ones. Yeah, I do
Um
60 second skeptic
Can we use your model objective morality on trickier balancing act type issues thinking like positive versus negative freedoms threatening speech of freedom of speech
If so, can you give a quick example?
Yes, so legalization of weed 100 percent moral to legalize weed. There's no reason to justify it to morality
Uh abortion abortion is a tricky issue because I think that if the baby is conscious it is immoral to kill it
But it's justify the self-defense. That's a tricky issue
So it I think the Republicans are right that it is immoral to kill a baby
But it's justified because it's self-defense. So yes, you can use this to be trick trickier things freedom of speech 100
Freedom of speech of all words. I don't care all words should be freedom of speech
Quick question on that one. Um, what if it's like except those words don't you don't get to speak?
Like direction like directions on like how to
You know cause harm to someone
I think that all words should be
Legal but because people are influenced by those words. We have to have pragmatic limitations. And so I think that
since
Um, people are stupid and listen to the words. We have pragmatic limitations
But you should be allowed to say whatever you want ever
Because words don't literally hurt people directly
interesting
Or then from javar javar jarra
Do you agree with a possible answer to the where are aliens questioned according to indagrest ice and maybe aliens already came
And they didn't find any intelligent life here. Um
I don't think so. I think a more plausible action a plus a more plausible answer is that
If my model is true, which I think it is I think their understanding of morality is so
higher evolved than us
That we do so many immoral things
They don't really want to interact with us at least not yet
And so they see our society and do and see us doing so many terrible things
That they wouldn't want to interact with us yet. That would be a more plausible solution
I don't know. What do you think don't david does that sound reasonable that aliens are so much more morally
Attuned to us that the way you see people who eat meat
The aliens see us because we're just so immoral
Um, I think that
I I just have beef with the alien thing man. I think just you just we're just we're just
We're just assuming too much to even be able to have a conversation about it
But like look man, let's let's pretend that we're both like smoking a big doobie sitting around a fire. Yeah, I'll introduce
I'll I'll talk about it like I talk about maybe the ghost surreal or something, right? I don't believe it, but cool
Um, yeah, I think they might look at us like I think I think if anything, um, okay, let me just take the
Okay, I reckon I reckon what's happening is there's like there's like, you know, we have to reach some level of consciousness or some level of
intelligence, uh, or some level of, uh, technological
Would be seen like, uh, pandas in the wild like you can't go up to a panda and just start like, you know playing with it or whatever
certain tribes in
There's certain tribes in, uh
Papa, yeah
Yeah, well, you can't go to them because you'll give them diseases and stuff
I think that, uh, maybe people maybe hang on other drugs
maybe people on, um
On earth a viewed like that from alien life
Yep, I disagree with the pandas thing though. I think it's totally legit to go up and just hug a panda
Oh, I'll do it. I just don't think you're allowed to like
Like slight slight health risk of eaten by bear
Grimlock says I am also high function autism
I gave up all animal products nearly seven years ago overnight with no excuse good good for you
I don't have an excuse. I just granted some moral and like cheese and bacon
Someone in your comments said David is trying to take advantage of tom's autism. I don't know what that means
If it gives me not blondes, that's worth it. Introduce me to those Australian ladies. I'll take it
Okay, um, just for your audience who is watching as well. Um deep drinks podcast is a
Platform where I invite guests on they choose their drink of choice today. We had cherry pepsi
Usually it's alcohol and we drink it and have deep conversations deep drinks
And we're also trying to hit a thousand subscribers
So if you want to subscribe to this channel go for it because when we get to a thousand I'm doing a charity live stream
Six hours where we'll be doing some fun stuff. I might even watch
I'll see if I can get away with it
But I think I can I might even watch the the old cowboy Kenneth Copeland movies
Who doesn't want to watch that with me, right?
Like do you remember those things?
Treasure on eagle mountain covenant rider. Oh, man
I bought like the apologist guy was no not the apologist. He's like a big-time Texan preacher
He's the one who's like COVID-19
You know, you blow on all the COVID-19 that dude. Yeah, he had cowboy movies back in the day and we're gonna watch it
We'll see. I'll have to see if I'm gonna get copyright strike
I don't think I am because I uploaded it didn't get marked but yeah for your audience
That are watching come subscribe to my channel. I'd really appreciate it and get us over that thousand
How's a mark but last few questions I've got for you t-jump is
What is the most plausibly true religious worldview that you don't subscribe to?
Probably Hinduism is the one I say the most Hinduism has the most accurate predictions of the age of the earth sort of
They predict the age of the earth was 4.3 billion years old. It's 4.5. So that's
close
Yes, unfortunately, they're they think we're only like halfway through that
So it's one like two two billion years ago. Thank you for logic for pointing that out. He did the research on that one
But they're the closest one that has real evidence and so they're the one that's most likely to be correct
I think Jainism has the most moral system. They're most likely to be right on morality
So those are probably the top two Hinduism Jainism
is the um
Okay, I I wanted to look into that actually because is that 4.3 billion?
Is that like a new thing that they've read into old text or is that something that like
Literally legit exact numbers from the 6 000 year old tax. They give years
They're not like it's not like Christianity where you have to like
Ambiguate it. It's like no it says this many human years. Is this many god years? Is this many god years? They don't damn
Damn. Wow. Okay. That's crazy
um
This is a good one. What if anything would change your mind?
And I'm gonna ask that to us on morality and secondly on the god belief
Uh evidence novel tussle predictions
So like in the case of morality if we discover aliens and they have like
Eat babies morality that would that would prove my morality wrong. Um
God belief same thing novel tussle predictions if I die and go to heaven and see god
That's pretty good evidence that god is real
Or if revelation happens and like Christians start magically disappearing like poofing out of existence like that's
Interesting evidence. Um, so how do novel tussle predictions?
Uh, can you imagine that can you imagine being on earth there without christians?
I mean, well, your channel would plummet in like, um in like views because like who would you have to argue with except for maybe
I don't know
I don't know
There are other religions that still exist
Yeah, are there? No. Yeah. Okay. Um
And this is a bonus question. I like to ask people
If you could choose an afterlife and then as soon as you imagine this afterlife
I imagine you don't believe in afterlife
But if you could choose this afterlife and it immediately became true, what afterlife would you choose?
The mind the best of all possible worlds. That's the best
Okay, let's take them just from like popular religions. So like do you want to be reincarnated? Do you want to have like heaven?
um
Like a tradition from christian heaven. Do you like what buddhas think like?
You guys choose a religious afterlife
What I had someone once mentioned, um, egyptian afterlife
I don't know like most of them. I think are pretty bad
Like
The one that's closest to the best of all possible is my answer
And I just have to figure out which one that is to be able to answer the question
Yeah, what about if um, you went, uh, I don't know that's going to be too offensive. Actually, I'm not going to say that
It's going to make you crack about, you know, um
Instagram models in heaven. I'm getting a certain amount of them or something. Um, anyway
Thank you so much to jump for coming on to deep things podcast. Is there any last words you have?
Before we leave
potato
Potato. All right. Well, thank you again for coming on
Make sure everyone to go subscribe to deep youtube.com slash deep drinks. I super appreciate
Let me know in the comments down below that you come here and I'll definitely react and also
Uh, I'll see you guys next time. Uh, see you later
You
