Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks podcast, the deepest podcast on the internet.
Today, my guest is Dr. Robin Faith Walsh, who is the associate professor at the University of Miami.
She's the author of the origins of early Christian literature, this amazing book.
She earned her PhD at Brown University in religions of the ancient Mediterranean with a focus on
early Christianity, ancient Judaism and Roman archaeology, and she has a course on MVP courses.
Welcome Dr. Robin Faith Walsh. Hi, thanks for having me. Yeah, it's great to be here.
I am, I can't, I think I've told you this about 10 times in the back room, but I can't explain
how excited I am to interview you today. Your book, your work, everything I've discovered
over the last couple of months has been very transformative and it's been amazing.
Oh, that's really sweet. I hope I live up to that kind of intro.
Oh, you definitely will. You definitely will. So thank you everyone. I can see everyone,
all the friendly faces in the chat. Thanks for everyone coming out. This is going to be a great
episode. So we're drinking tea today, but we weren't sure about that, were we?
No, so my favorite go-to drink is a dirty Shirley. So it's a Shirley Temple, but vodka instead of
just soda. But we didn't have any grenadine and then I have to teach in the morning. So I was staring
at the fridge and thinking, what else we had? My husband's a big bourbon drinker, so we have
a lot of bourbon. Not going to go there. I'll pass out on you. And then I like champagne,
but we only had like Prosecco, which is really sweet and I like dry anyway. So I am a drinks
person, but you'll have to catch me on a non-school night and then I'll bring something other than
sleepy time tea. I'll make it happen. This is, I love tea. Look, I really love tea and it's
actually really nice to, I can see my boss in the chat, Vito Media. You've just become a member.
Thank you. I'm going to back to work after this. So I would love to share a drink with you, but I
love to share tea as well. It's fun. We have a huge selection of drinks at our house. Because
like deep drinks, people will have like crazy, like, I want to drink this. Some guests have chosen
cocktails. I had to buy five different bottles of alcohol for that one cocktail. So our cupboards
are just like chockers with like random things. And last night, I was panicking at midnight,
running around, trying to find the same thing, Granada. And we didn't actually have any, so yeah.
Okay, so that's good. So we're gonna, Grenadine, so we're gonna, we're gonna,
Grenadine, sorry. Yeah, we'll put a pin in this, that if I ever come on again, if I don't, you know,
bollocks this up, then I'll come back. We're going to both have our dirty Shirley's. We're going to
plan it out. Yeah, for sure. I'd love to, you know, you can come on anytime you want. I'm sure,
unless some, you know, unless I stuff up too bad, but let's, let's, let's not get into it.
Let's see how it goes. Yeah. Okay, so, so the first question I want to ask, and I try and,
I'm wanting to try and get like a bit of it. Okay. Sorry. I'm opening up. Yeah, I can't,
can you hear me? Oh, cool. Yeah, yeah. I'm just making sure I can see the chat. I don't see it.
Do I see it? Ah, got it. Oh, it might be. Yeah. I found it. I had you in full screen.
Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. So, the Bible is, you know, extremely important book and some people view it
as like the perfect word of God. I was used to be one of those people and then other people see it
as unimportant, not having any more truth than any, any other religion, religions, holy texts.
How do you see it both as personally and as a scholar?
Well, you know, starting with the scholar bit because of the book, you know, I think with
anything, whether you think it's the word of God or not, it gets mediated through human beings. And
I think human beings are generally a mess, not to be too unbiographical. But this was kind of the
point of the book, which is we have a couple of tendencies. And I, when I say this, it's like
based in cognitive science, I'm not just making it up, but in social science, but human beings
have a tendency to like linear narratives that are pretty smooth and easy to grapple with that
are affirming. And we also like some security, you know, when it comes to sources of authority,
whether it's a person or a text. And so that also requires us to spackle over some messiness. And
so when it comes to early Christian history and to the scriptures for Christianity specifically,
I think that again, regardless of what you think is the ultimate purpose or source of those narratives,
they are going to go through a process of people not only mediating the content in terms of what
they find important, but also in terms of their own sometimes access to grind or biases. And I
don't even mean that necessarily in a negative way, like someone's trying to manipulate other
people. But sometimes I mean, you see it in the Sinovite Gospels, for instance,
there are different points of emphasis and different scriptures that even the gospel
authors might cite to contextualize what they're trying to claim or other purposes that they see
for their narratives. And we have to remember too, that there's a long process of canonization for
these texts and lots of Gospels that didn't make it. They found one last week, by the way,
another one was published. Another one of those little like fragments. Yeah, it looks like it.
Yeah, that's like it appears to be like a little bit of Luke and a little bit of Matthew with some
Thomas thrown in, you know, so there are a lot of contested ideas, narratives, accounts, collections
of sayings. We don't know. We just don't know where they all came from. We don't know the motivations
per se of the people who wrote them. We only know how they were used subsequently and how people
use them now. And so personally, I get anxious when I see them used to hurt other people, to judge
other people, to constrain other people, the violence that these texts out of this idea of
authority have caused for thousands of years, 2000 years. That that part, I find that messiness I
mentioned before the human beings tend to do this to one another. And that's the part that
I often want to reach out and say like, we don't have to do this.
You know, like if there was one message from all of this, it's let's be nice to each other and not
so judgy. Let's go with that because the processes in the first, second, third, fourth century,
the political ideas, everything else that gets layered on top of the messages of these texts
and how they're used ends up having very little to do with what we call the historical Jesus.
Hmm. I remember having recently told this on Mithvision when I when I talked about my story,
but one of the big things for me was I had a friend who I met in ministry college closeted
for 45 years, never been with anyone. And, you know, it was very depressed, suicidally so. And
and I was so I was digging into the Bible trying to work out if the Bible really condemned homosexuals
and if it was okay for him to be in a relationship. And I found a lot of stuff about like women,
not speaking in church and, you know, not braiding their hair and all this stuff. And I would bring
it to my pastors who were saying that homosexuality was like fraternal, this eternal thing that's
like etched into the stars, like a bad thing or whatever. And I would bring it to my pastors
and they would say, no, that was just for a time. And I'd say, why is that just for a time?
And this homosexuality suffers over time. And it just seemed that there seemed to be a difference
between like people tended to be the driving force behind how they interpret the Bible. Like
the Bible says a lot of things. So it does. Yeah, you know, like, there, there are all kinds of,
I mean, women veiling their heads, right? We don't do that anymore. I've often found those
moving goalposts, you know, this is kind of what I'm talking about. We decide as people what we're
going to listen to and what we're not going to listen to. And we decide it as a group. And
sometimes that gets codified in laws or religious or even secular law. Sometimes it's just we all
look the other way or we validate a different interpretation that corresponds with whatever
is going on with society at the time, you know, to go back to say, okay, women, you can never
speak in church, you can have no authority position, you know, based on say, like the,
I mean, we're thinking about first Corinthians here, but something maybe from the past
storals could come in there. You know, you, yeah, always have to veil your heads, all the other,
you know, there's so many different rules. And you can decide which ones you think are valid or
not, but it would be difficult to change some of these things now, right? This is kind of what
you're getting at. It'd be very difficult to institute many of those kinds of regulations now.
And, you know, first Romans one is often used as one of the justifications against homosexuality,
for instance, but he puts that in a list of a number of things that are stereotypes about
Gentiles. You know, it's not even in the Greek as strong as you would think. So, you know, I think
having an idea of the cultural situation of the first century Mediterranean world that gives us
an idea of why certain things were said, why they're so much fashion advice.
For women, for women, why these things are there. It's helpful because, yeah,
then you can have more perspective on how much do I have to listen to all of it.
And, you know, there is a silver lining, a happy ending, you know, my friend has been in a long
term committed relationship with his boyfriend of like four years now or something, or three years,
so he's and he's really happy. So, yeah, he eventually got a chance to move past all that.
One thing that I've always wanted, well, not always wanted, but wanted recently is
you mentioned how we've just found a new kind of fragment of a gospel. Let's say,
and this is just a random aside, but let's say that we found a new gospel and it was the earliest
gospel we've ever found, and it was perfect, and it was like, but what did it include?
You are like the whole thing, like the whole thing.
Yeah, it's like, it's like not a credit card. Okay.
Yeah, it's written like 10 years after the, like it's written like way earlier than everything,
and every, every type of dating method we have all points to it being like perfectly like within the,
you know, shortly after the life of Jesus, but it has instructions on how the disciples
decided to create this rumor about the empty tomb, they tried to hide the, they hid the body,
and then, and then, and then it has instructions on where the body is, and then we go there and
we dig it up and there's a body there, and it says, this is Jesus of Christ of Nazareth.
Yeah, you got that. That's a hard ignore. That's good.
Do you think, do you think like the Catholic Catholic Church and the church, they would
just dissolve? What do you think of that would just be something that just again, people go,
nope, didn't happen, or they just choose to ignore that part?
Oh, it just, it would get debated to the point of total confusion and, you know,
people would just fracture over it and it wouldn't change much is, is my guess. Yeah.
I mean, that's not, yeah, I hate to say it, but I suspect that would be the case.
But, you know, we have to remember that people have, you know, structured their whole lives
around the church and it's, it actually, one thing that I also try to emphasize sometimes
is, you know, we have a tendency to think, I called it the early Christian Big Bang in the book,
that Jesus came and it was just like obvious to everybody that they could just change their whole
lives now and whatever they were practicing before Jesus came doesn't matter. They're just
going to abandon their families, their children, their parents, their whole social system in some
cases to follow the word of a guy who never met Jesus, Paul, for example, you know, that Jesus
resurrected and he's, he's having, you know, as I, some people heard me say tea parties with
zombie Jesus and you're like, yeah, that makes sense to me. I'm going to abandon my whole life
to follow and, and, you know, like huge groups of people doing this converting.
And I've often said it's just people don't work that way. You know, you can have curiosity about
a new religious movement or a narrative that someone presents to you. Certainly you can ultimately
convert one way or another to different movements, but people's social lives are much more complicated
and much more dynamic. And it's not just about a message or a text or scripture or not. It's much
more involved than that because we all have these networks of relationships that can be threatened
or challenged or changed or shipped according to whatever narratives we accept and practices we
accept. So I think to, to know that it's much messier and accept it's much messier is important
because if they did find that gospel tomorrow, yeah, I don't think it would change a lot for a
lot of people, right? Especially people in positions of authority for whom, you know, the church ends
up being their career, right? Like we're down, you can get it down to how do people pay their bills?
You know, you're not going to abandon the entire structure of your life because of a piece of
papyrus, I don't think. Well, this would be many pieces of papyrus. Well, that's true, it'd be a
code. Yeah, yeah, exactly. So, so I guess before we dive into, I guess, the meat of this, this
amazing, look at this. So look, I noticed you have more tasks than I do. Oh, wait, just, just
I'm going camping, I'm going to go back through it and I'm going to, this weekend and I'm going
to like, I'm going to litter this thing. It's really, I'm really enjoying it. So before we jump
into that, what can we say historically about the Bible? I know this is a, this is kind of a
trick question because you've got to go to weigh the evidence for each thing. But like, can we say
that Jesus existed? Is that something that we can say historically, you would say? Yeah, I think
he did. And I know this is a, it's a really, at minimum, a good thought experiment, but it's a
really interesting question. Because I think what shocks people sometimes is once you start to find
out how relatively thin the evidence actually is for this person, because, you know, we don't have
anything written down by the disciples themselves, you know, the Gospels are much, much later, Paul
never actually knew the historical Jesus. Once people find these things out, sometimes, you
know, I can, I completely sympathize with the reaction of, well, then how do you even know
this guy was ever there, right? But I think we can know that he was there for a few reasons.
One is that according to Paul, he saw Peter and James in Jerusalem. So James, Jesus's brother,
Peter, we all know Peter, the rock of the church, et cetera. So one of his followers. And, you know,
if you were going to say somebody, the word is interpolation, fake that part of Paul's letter
that he's in contact with these guys, and they're having what's called the Jerusalem Council, where
they basically, I mean, on my reading, James and Peter are like this Paul guy, you weren't even there.
Like, you don't know what you're talking about. This is a Jewish movement, go be apostle to the
Gentile, whatever you want to do, like we're staying here and continuing what we were doing.
Later, the later church goes to great strides to try to resolve what was that seeming historical
conflict between these, these Paul and Peter and James, for example. You didn't need to create
that conflict to then have to resolve it. Do you know what I mean? Like that says to me that Paul,
this is a genuine part of Paul's letter writing to indicate this. It becomes a genuine part of
Paul's claim to authority. Like, I didn't know the historical Jesus, but I talked to him more
recently than you guys did. Right. And, you know, so that's how he's able to say, I understand how
we can move forward now that he's gone and you guys are still in Jerusalem doing your thing.
You know, some people said like, well, maybe all three of them just made him up.
It just gets to a point to me where there's too many steps of speculation and too many
conspiracies of people having to like, pretend a guy existed, but he didn't. But you know what I
mean? Like that doesn't ring true to me. And also we know that there are many, many movements at the
time. I think John the Baptist is a historical person. And we have people like Josephus later
on saying, you know, I've heard about these other movements, other people saying they were a son of
God, other Jewish sort of rebel types. And so it doesn't stretch credulity to think that Jesus was
one of them. So, so to me, the evidence weighs on the side that he is a historical person now. Is he
anything like what we get in the Gospels or Paul? That is a different story. Yeah, well,
well, I think so. I actually have like a, like a kind of steps towards the more
mythological it seems. So the next one was, was he crucified? Do you think we can say that?
Yeah, that makes sense to me. And Paul, I mean, now I know that there's debate because then Paul
says he crucified, died and was buried instead of, you know, the tomb story, specifically. And I
know people make a lot of that. Is that just sort of idiomatic? Is he just like, yeah, he's dead and
gone, you know, like that, that kind of phraseology doesn't mean he was actually buried. I know that
there are some scholars who have like Dominic Crossen, I believe, has said like, well, actually,
if you were crucified, you were not given a proper burial, you were just or, you know, yeah,
basically. And so it makes sense, like Paul probably is saying to me, right? So like, these
are, these are the debates that give me a job, which is helpful. So yeah, I think, I think crucifixion
makes sense. It makes sense for the rupture that takes place with that group. It makes sense for
why anybody would listen to Paul in the first place, because he could claim, based on his reading
of scripture, you know, there's this idea that to hang from a tree is the phrase is a curse in
the Hebrew Bible. And Paul references this. But to him, it's the sign of the ultimate, you know,
in English, the translations tend to say faith in Jesus Christ, but it's not what the Greek says.
The Greek says that it's Jesus's faithfulness that allows all of this to happen, that allows
him to become God's son. God selects him to be resurrected. So that process, it makes sense to
me that based on how Paul interprets the situation that he would have been crucified. Yeah.
I would love to see you like, for Dirty Shirley's Deep, arguing with an apologist about this,
this would be amazing. Just as shuffled. Yeah, yeah. So okay, next one, was there an empty tomb?
Do you think this is where it starts to get a bit legendary?
I mean, so what I talk about in the book and hear Richard Miller's work has been really interesting.
Like, we can't forget the Gospels are literary, like, no matter what their literature. And what I
mean by this is they're telling a story. It's basically an ancient biography. It doesn't take
all the boxes of ancient biography, but it ticks like, born and dies, most of the time, you know,
and it has many of the, I mean, Mark starts at the baptism, but, you know, technicality.
And then John has this more philosophical opening. But the idea is that you're telling
the story of this hallowed person, right? But they're written in a way that looked like ancient
biography. They're biographies of statesmen, biographies like even stories like Esop, the
life of Esop, where the figure is kind of subversive and not really, you know, like the best role models
in the world, but still someone who has interesting and clever teachings and something that people
found entertaining. And so I think we have to really keep that in mind, because something like
the empty tomb is a motif. And it's a motif that existed before the New Testament or the
Gospels. It's a motif that you see persist. And if not the empty tomb, per se, what you do see in
something like the Greek novel, which I think I mentioned the Caleroi in the book, which is one
where, you know, it's always that kind of like proto Shakespearean, you know, she's buried alive
and her boyfriend rolls back the rock on the tomb to like go see her body one last time. And it's
missing anything. She's a God, you know, that kind of story always existed in the ancient
Mediterranean world. So I think sometimes what the Gospel writers did is whether it's because they
needed to fill in a blank, or because they're just trying to convey to the reader how the story of
Jesus is sensible within an arc of other kinds of literature and stories about other important
people, they would supply some details like that. And so rather than try to mine the Gospels for
every little single thing, being historically validated the way that we like things to be
historically validated today, it doesn't really work, honestly. I mean, we see this with Luke,
you know, Luke talks about a census that never happened, like a worldwide sentence. It doesn't
even make sense to Joseph. Why is he bringing Mary on a donkey? She's pregnant. You know,
he's not a landowner. It doesn't even matter for that. Like, you know, the governor wasn't the
governor at the time. And like, there's a totally different power structure in Matthew, like they
don't, they don't correspond. But the way that they even cite something like who's in leadership
may not be historical, but it's something you saw in other kinds of literature like
Paradoxography, which in this period was like a Ripley's Believe It or Not, where Luke was a
world-class B.S.er. But he's really good. He's good at it. But like Paradoxography would do the
thing Luke does, which is like, you know, Paradox Graphic Literature would be like,
this is the one that always jumps in my head because when I'm working on this for the new book,
and I've already written this chapter, and this one jumped out at me, when you're about to claim
that a woman gave birth to a monkey with like, you know, baby with a monkey head, you need to date it
somehow so people will kind of believe you. So Paradoxography would be like, there was a woman
in Rome, she gave birth to a monkey, like everybody saw it. We threw it in the tie bird during the
reign of so-and-so. Like you always like have to contextualize the date. Some of these Paradoxographical
claims get crazier and crazier, but the idea is you often see time kept that way, right? Like I'm
about to tell you something really wild, but I'm going to ground it in the reality of who was in
power at the time just to kind of give a plausibility and now be entertained. And so if you have somebody,
you know, being born who's the son of a god, right, you're going to give it some kind of
grounding in a similar way, just so people can believe it. Yeah. Okay. So all right, here's the,
I got two more. Did he rise again? Can we say that historically? So this is now getting into the realm
of miracles. Oh, here's the answer. Possibly, probably. Okay. So this gets into ancient physics.
Okay, so two things. Okay, let's go. All right. Okay. So the first thing to keep in mind is
Pharisees, which Paul is at the time, are a ancient sect that do believe in resurrection
of bodies. Not everybody did. Not even within Judaism did every sect believe this, but Pharisees
did. So the fact that Paul makes this claim and that he's talking to someone who has been resurrected
makes sense in that respect. This corresponds completely with what would have been going on at
the time within the group to which he is a part of. Now, Paul and others in this period also,
and we see this again in the Greek, in the scripture itself, in the Gospels, and Paul's
letters as well, this language of the spirit. And for ancient Stoics, ancient Platonists,
and I talk about this actually in the MPV MVP course, there was an idea that spirit was actually
the word in Greek represented an actual physical substance. It was super refined and invisible
to the naked eye, and that's how you knew it had to do with God. But that substance was the way
that your body would be resurrected at the end time. So this makes, when I say this, we all talk
about a spirit in the afterlife naturally now. People talk about spirit and soul and things
like that when they think about an afterlife, and that body that they imagine never gets sick,
doesn't die, doesn't have imperfections in it, you know, like they're healed from whatever
ail them, they're probably about 30 years old or younger, you know, they don't have an older body
anymore. Those things that make us mortal are erased in this idea of having a spiritual body.
And so you see discourse across the ancient Mediterranean, again, not exclusive to Paul or
Pharisees, but anybody who's engaged in ancient physics, which at the time was really controlled
by stoicism or informed by stoicism, talking about this idea of being able to transform
from flesh to a spiritual flesh, a pneumatic flesh is the term. So could someone resurrect
into a pneumatic form? Yes. Did you desire, I have no idea. But it was certainly, it wasn't,
I mean, I'll say it this way, it wasn't as radical an idea as you might expect,
actually, just because people thought this would be, this was actually like a scientific thing.
Like you could, your flesh will fall away, but you know, sometimes you hear people talk now like,
oh, we're all energy. And so, you know, I don't know if I believe in a God, but I believe that
energy continues. And so I will turn into energy that flies through the universe. Like we do the
same thing now, actually. So yeah, that makes sense. It's one of those things, like something
that like really, we talked briefly about this and we'll have to say this for another episode, but
you had a, you know, a little bit about Buddhism and things like that. But one of the things I
found interesting is when the Buddha became enlightened, he, of course, he kept teaching
about reincarnation because he was in a society, in a culture that just accepted that as part of,
like, reality. So it's like, it's like your products of your environment, even people
like Jesus and other disciples and the Buddha. Okay. And this is the last one. And I have a
little bit of a preamble, but did Jesus ascend into heaven? So when I was a Christian, okay, I
remember I was a kid, I think it was like, I know, a young teenager or something. And I read,
read the Gospels and I read Acts and, and I got that part of the ascension. I was like,
that seems like it's sweet, like something's like that writing style just switched like so,
you know, in Luke. And he led them out as far as far as Bethany and lifted up his hands and
blessed them. While he blessed them, he parted from them and he was carried up into heaven. I was like,
well, like that just seems like, that just seems like almost a throwaway like, oh, this is what
happened. Like, shut up, don't answer, don't ask more questions. Like it just felt weird to me. And
then, you know, in Acts and said, men of Galilee, why do you, why do you stand looking into heaven?
What this Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven will come back the same way you saw him go
into heaven. And again, I was just like, this is, this is strange. And when I was actually deconstructing
my faith, I was like, okay, we can't take anything away from the Bible and we can't add anything to
the Bible. That would be dishonest. So let's just take the Bible and face value. I was like, so
if, if Jesus was to ascend, he'd have to ascend at a, at a rate that the disciples could see him.
So he couldn't be going at the speed of light because obviously, you know, that would be
instantaneously disappear. So he had to be going at like maybe 50 miles an hour, maybe 100 miles
per hour. I was like, we can see 13.8 billion light years away. So technically Jesus would
still be traveling to heaven. Like I'm like, you could, you could look in a telescope and he's
still making his way to heaven because it doesn't say that he sped up. It doesn't say that he,
he didn't just teleport to heaven because he could have done that on earth. Why didn't he just do
it? Why didn't he just send like, and, you know, and this was actually some like, like something
that I pondered in my deconstruction because I was a very literalist, a tough Christian.
And so I kept that with the numbers this morning. So, so Jesus traveling through space at 100
miles per hour would take 926.8 trillion years. That's 926 with 15 zeros to get to the edge of
what we can see. So heaven at least has to be further than that. If you take a literal twin
turbo, I love this moment. So, so yeah. So like, I guess if we, if we translate,
you know, ascending into heaven in, in a, in a like a poetic way, or we, we describe it how I
guess you've described Jesus rising from the dead, not in the way that we think of it in church,
but in the way you've kind of mentioned it, it could, what do you think about that? Did Jesus
Okay, I can answer that too. It's also ancient physics and science. And I, so I, I keep promising
this. And I swear to you, it's coming, but I have an article coming out about this with Harvard
Theological Review, but I know they're backed up. So every time a new issue comes out, I'm like,
as soon as it comes out, again, if you'll have me again, I'm happy to come back and talk about it.
But there is an ancient Mediterranean idea that I think Paul shares. It's pretty clear to me from
his letters, but the moon is supposed to kind of be the clearinghouse for souls. And a lot of the way
that heaven gets constructed in the ancient Mediterranean. And so, especially among the
ancient philosophers, there's an idea that the creative fire and intelligence that's in human
beings will actually get separated from its, from the soul in the space, the region between the
moon and the earth. So they think that there are these celestial winds that kind of strip away
and disentangle the, they call it the noose, but the mind from what we would call the soul.
And so then the soul is just free to move about the universe. And that creative fire goes back
into the sun. So Jesus, when he goes to heaven, now remember Paul talks about going to the third
heaven as well. And he has a lot of language about this. He talks about different kinds of
celestial bodies in 1 Corinthians 15. And he breaks it all down. But if you look at the way that he
talks about the different kinds of doxa is the word that he uses for different kinds of bodies
and where they go. And you get a sense of kind of the geography that ancient philosophers had in
terms of thinking about these regions from the earth to the moon. It seems pretty clear to me
that Paul thinks Jesus is up there between the moon and the earth. And he's just amassing
his heavenly army of these, these souls. The other people who float around in the region
between the earth and the moon are ancestors, hallowed ancestors who still have some ties to
the earth. So they haven't had their mind and soul separated yet. Diamonds who are sort of these
inspirational beings or their heroes stay there as well. And so you can imagine that Paul thinks
Jesus has joined all of them and his pneumatic body, his resurrected pneumatic body, and he's
marshaling this heavenly army together. And they're the ones who are going to come down from heaven
and defeat the earthly rulers and archons. So that's where Jesus goes. He just goes,
because remember Paul has that whole thing where he's like, I knew a dude. I forget if he gives
his name. I think some people debate like if he's talking about himself or if you're like talking
about Steve, but he talks about this, like I knew a guy like five years ago, he went to the
third heaven. Was he in his body? Was he outside of his body? I don't know. But he went there
and he came, like he has a whole story about these different hierarchies of heaven.
And so you actually compare that to the Stoics. They do have an actual hierarchy.
Just when you think. There's a lot of David Bowie. There's a David Bowie quote in the article. I
can't believe they took it. But that was one of my goals is to like get a David Bowie quote.
Oh, that's so good. Yeah, he's a star man. He's a star man. I'm a little, I'm a little, I guess,
late, like a little stuck in crandy. It's 12 to it's there. Oh, you was caught up in the 30th.
Thank you. Starman. Thank you. Pragmatic crystal. Yeah. Pragmatic crystal is lovely. She's always
here. She's so supportive. She's so great. You know, I was late to David Bowie. Like,
I didn't grow up with him. Obviously, I'm 33. But I did grow up with him in the labyrinth.
And that movie scared the shit out of me when I was young. Oh, it, I love it. It's I'm making,
I'm making my child watch it. We have a newborn, so a seven month old named Atlas. And let me just,
let me just read something from your book as we pivot into your book. My favorite section
of your whole book is actually in the acknowledgments to Terran. I don't know if, if or when you might
read this. At this moment, you were too young to recognize your own name. You wake up a dawn,
you pronounce bananas, my nanas, your favorite word is an emphatic more, you destroy every puzzle,
you knowingly smirk when I tell you no, you are terrible for my work, but you make everything else
feel unimportant. I adore you. That, honestly, that I related so much to that, being a new father.
And I was like that, just like, I read it actually to my, to my beautiful wife, I read that to her.
And she goes, I like that she really, really, really liked that. And I just, I just, I felt it
as some deep core in my body. But yeah, it's, it's so true isn't it? Children, they literally ruin
your life, but you love them for it in a way. Yeah, it's true. I mean, and I, I wrote the book.
I finished it while I was pregnant. Some of my girlfriends make fun of me. I was in labor,
still trying to translate some of the German. And so I was in the bed texting them, like,
is this how I do this? Or is it like, they're like, Robin, go have the baby, like stop,
stop texting us. So that's how much, you know, the Terran, my son was represented in the writing of
this book. And I can remember, yeah, as a newborn, my husband and I taking shifts so I could just
finish the book, you know, like sit outside and try to finish it. You know, got me whatever hours
he could by taking him on these long walks, you know, because he was not a sleepy baby. So
yeah, the book reflects that period of life, which is really, you know, a magical period,
even if it is sleep depriving. And yeah, yeah, yeah, but I appreciate you reading that.
I can just, I just felt like I knew I just got you. I got, I got everything when I read that.
I was like, this makes sense. I just, yeah, I love it. So can you just give everyone like,
what is your book about if you can just give everyone like the element of what your book
is about. And then I got some more specific questions. Yeah. And then I'll keep an eye on
these, these questions here too. Yeah. Yeah. So the book really came out of my own ignorance
and stubbornness in the sense that, oh, thank you. It's available links in the description,
obviously. Yes, it's actually finally affordable too. Thank goodness it's in paperback now as well,
and I'm very grateful for that. So my own ignorance and stubbornness, because I often find many of
the ideas that we were compelled to accept even as students about the composition of this literature
really kind of ran against everything else I knew about how ancient literature was produced.
Especially the idea that, you know, you could attribute community authorship to these texts.
So Markman Community, Methane Community, Lutheran Community, that there was an oral tradition,
they held on to it. Eventually, you know, we know the statistics for literacy are so low. So they
had to find like the one guy or they had to hire a scribe or someone to put down the oral tradition,
but you could never get a good explanation of like, well, why now? Why the one guy? How do you know
that? You're probably like, that's not what Luke describes. Why are we imagining communities behind
these texts? Doesn't it seem like we just want them to be there because we want to be able to
say more about early Christianity or we want more security about the historical Jesus than
what the texts are presenting us? I mean, our earliest copies of these texts are in the second
century at best, right? So the way that the field continually reconstructed the narrative around
their composition and production just always baffled me. And I always had this tension to,
you know, especially when, for example, as a teaching assistant, having to make sure that
I was tracking my students, that they could reproduce these ideas adequately for me to
give grades, but myself always kind of being like, why do we think this? You know, and increasingly,
I would feel kind of like a fraud, you know, teaching them like Mark was written in 70 by the
marking community that has these characteristics, but then this color says they're like this and
this color like that. Actually, we have no idea. So the book tries to say there's no good reason
for us to continue to imagine that there are communities behind these texts. It's not getting
us anywhere. And it's clearly very much tied to, again, this idea that we want to be able to say
more and make historical claims about the first century around these texts. We just can't with
any kind of historical accuracy or legitimacy. And so that's the first piece, you know, like what
would it mean if these Gospels were not written by communities, but by authors who were writing
within an authorship network of these what I call elite cultural producers, people who are actually
literate reading other kinds of literature competing in that kind of landscape. It ships the
focus from how are these communities competing with one another with their Gospels and how do we
reconstruct them into a whole different space where it's literature and authors debating with one
another or overriding each other or, you know, appreciating one another and expanding their
ideas like other kinds of ancient literature. And I thought to say that that kind of authorship
circle as a formative, you know, not to say that there aren't Christian groups anywhere in the
purview of these authors, but if the more formative group of other authors and other kinds of literature
and the content of these Gospels, Gospels is not informed by some imagined oral tradition,
but by other kinds of literature. I've seen a few people mention Virgil here,
for example, you know, if these authors are well educated enough to write these kinds of things
and to engage the literature at the age, what does that mean? And it seemed to me that the field
had already acknowledged this, you know, that other kinds of literature seem to be inspiring the
Gospels, but I hadn't seen anyone really kind of pull that all together to say, well, what if they're
just a guy? You know, like what if they're putting together, again, like, you know, the empty tomb
and things like that because of other things they've read, not because of an oral tradition that we
imagine is there. That was really the first piece. The second piece was then why do we say this?
Like how did the field get to a place where we're teaching about the marking community and,
you know, all of that? And so I went back to 19th, 18th, but 19th century Germany,
which is where the critical study of religion, you know, as a discipline really kind of emerged,
and particularly the study of early Christian texts as a critical matter, not just a faith-based
matter. So this is really chapter two. And I realized that this idea of text representing
communities really comes from an era in which there's a lot of nationalism, the idea of trying
to find a poet of a particular nationality, region, country, or age, who's artistically
representative of a people. So this is the romantic period this tended to happen. So someone like
Shakespeare, right? His literature gives you this glimpse into Elizabethan England, and he's the
poet, you know, the bard of like the English people, right? That kind of mentality. But also
in Germany specifically, like the Brothers Grimm, you know, what are the stories of the German people,
you know, and how do you read the fairy tales of the German people to represent their national
identity at a time when Germany was still coalescing, you know, into one country of its own.
So the same discipline, principles, and approach to the idea of collecting the oral stories of the
people that you see in something like the Brothers Grimm, the same scholars doing that were talking
about the gospel. So it seemed pretty obvious to me that this was a methodology that developed in
the romantic period, the idea that you can use a text to speak for a community, that other areas
of the academy abandoned a long time ago, like, yeah, that doesn't really work, you know, like
have an author somewhere there. Even if you can't reconstruct who it is specifically,
conceptually, there's an author as part of these texts. And if you disempower that author and just
speak about like these amorphous groups, you take away all the technical aspects of writing,
all the intertext and the correct social location for these kinds of people.
So that's basically what the book does. It points that out. It advocates for a different approach,
a different methodology to the Gospels that goes back to what do we know about authorship and the
ancient Mediterranean and how do the Gospels reflect that. And then the rest of the book goes on
after I talk about the German stuff to say, okay, now let's read these like other first,
second century ancient texts and what gets revealed and what comparisons have we missed.
So one chapter that I wrote, sorry for the monologue.
No, monologue away. I'm loving this. This is yeah.
One chapter was, you know, there's this collection of stories called the Satirakon.
And sometimes people think it's this guy Petronius who wrote it. Some people think that the later
attribution doesn't make sense within classics. There's a big debate about this. So it's either
like from the 60s or it's from like the early second century, you know, people go back and forth.
Some of the stories in it are what are called the lesion tale. So they're very hundreds of years
older than what gets collected in the Satirakon. But you and it's like a bunch of vignettes,
like, you know, interesting stories that get compiled and whether or not it's an anonymous
author or it's this guy Petronius. The idea is that, you know, this was collected for a strategic
and intelligible reason as something people were circulating and reading. And it has stuff in it,
like a guy who has a dinner party and he hears a cockroach and he thinks that this means that
he's going to be sentenced to death. This is something that sometimes happens to philosophers
and this guy, Tremolfio, he has a big high opinion of himself. That's really not found. But he's
like, Oh, this means everything's about him. He's a narcissist. So he thinks he's going to die.
And so he tells everybody at this dinner party, his friends, that they need to divide his body
amongst themselves and eat it after his death, to commemorate him. There's another scene called
the widow of Ephesus, where this widow is in a tomb because her husband has died and she's mourning
and there are three crucified men outside and a Roman soldier guarding them and he hears her
weeping. And he goes in and like one thing leads to another. And they kind of start a little
relationship in the tomb for three days and three nights. And then when the Roman soldier leaves
the tomb after he's sort of wooed the widow, he realizes that somebody's come and taken the
body down of one of their family members that had been crucified and taken off with it to
give it a proper burial. And so they decide to take the body of her dead husband and put him up on
the cross. Because then that way they, you know, yeah, the soldier knows that the penalty is going
to be death for him. You know, he's abandoned his post. And so you leave an empty tomb. And I
think the phrase was make a dead man useful, you know, like put him up on the cross and save
their butts and so they can go off and have, but like the idea of three men crucified, you know,
that I think he even calls it his will and testament from all, you know, you had a bunch of
different stories like that. When were these written? Well, the, the Malaysian tales are old,
like the widow of Ephesus, like that kind of story, like the, the, the framework of that story is
several hundred years old. If it's written by Petronius, it's somebody who is in the court of
Nero. And if it's later, and just kind of a collection of stories floating around, there's
a scholar named Ulrich Roth, who wrote in the classical quarterly that she noticed that there
are many aspects of details within the satirical that match the letters of Pliny. So like certain
names in a certain order also appear in the satirical. So it's also possible that someone in
the network of Pliny, the same Pliny, who's writing letters to Trajan about Christians
in Bethany of Pontus. So this is what I mean by take the focus away from communities of Christians
recording oral tradition for which we have no evidence of any of that to shared storytelling
within certain networks of elite, literate people. And all of a sudden you can put the
Gospels in conversation with the satiricon, with a network of people who are aware of Christianity.
Do you see what I mean? Like it, it changes. Yeah, it changes. Would you, would like, so if I
put my fundamentalist hat back on, would, would someone might, well, I would say back, back then,
I would say something like, well, you know, the story of Jesus is, well, I used to say this,
actually, I used to say Jesus is, the Christian is the only religion where God comes to us. You
know, it's the only religion where God comes to us and loves us. Everything else is workspace,
moving up towards God. And I don't think that's true. But, but would you say that,
that Jesus for the most part was separate to a lot of what was happening before? Like,
he was like the pinnacle of what was happening around the time. Like, is he the filter through
which everything kind of, like, you know, like the funnel, you know, like, yeah, yeah, I mean,
again, I think there's a historical Jesus and there's, I think he was Jewish. And so there,
that activated the Hebrew scriptures as a proof text for the other claims that come later.
I think all that is the case. I think we underestimate how much the general Roman world
was interested in Judaism at the time. So I think what you end up having, especially post war,
because we know the Gospels came out after the Jewish war. So that's big for me, too. Like,
what happens? Like, when Paul, Paul lives before the Jewish war, he's our earliest evidence for
Jesus, right? He does not care about the historical Jesus. The best that he tells us like a couple
of things the historical Jesus ever said, he cares about the risen Christ. That's who he cares about.
And he tells us very little about the guy's life. And that interests me, particularly because it
suggests to me this is more of a movement that is apocalyptic, like they think that Jesus is going
to come back from the moon any second. And I think that it gives us an indication of that gap. Again,
we have to traverse between when the historical Jesus lives and when post Jewish war, you actually
start to see the Gospels written down this biography. Something shifts where people want to
know about Jesus' biography post war. We just don't really have the evidence for that kind of
biography being necessary for an eschatological movement that think the world's going to end
any minute. They didn't really care what the guy did or where he went, right? When it takes a while
for that movement to care about those things. But in that interim, especially after that war,
there's a general increase over time in Judea and in Jewish scripture, holy books,
and what's going on in that region and the eastern part of the empire. And we know this
through multiple, multiple sources. And then after that war, that war was like the biggest thing in
the first century, you know, the destruction of the Jerusalem temple is still like you can argue
a big deal today, right? Debates around Israel and, you know, Jerusalem today,
like in the... We've never gotten over this. So this is a major issue in the first century.
And so you can imagine more people even, you know, like every coin is stamped with an image of Judea
Akapta. They build the call, what we call the Colosseum after the destruction and celebration
of the destruction of that temple and that war in Judea. Everybody's curious about these things.
So when you have a biography emerge of a Judean Jewish holy man, who's teaching the Jewish scriptures,
everyone's kind of interested in that, walking around the Galilee, everybody's interested in
that territory, infused with some of the other aspects that we know are popular. And the general
Graco-Roman pantheon of the time or imagination of the time, he's the son of a god, he's a
miracle worker like Asclepius. He's the son of a god like Alexander. He, you know, the Augustus,
who's the emperor Octavian Augustus, who's the emperor when Jesus is born, calls himself the son
of a god, calls himself a savior, refers to his Pax Romana as a gospel. You know, these words are
out there. They are, you know, active at the time or operational at the time. There's actually very
little within early Christianity that you can't find in the broader Graco-Roman world at the time.
And so we have a tendency to think that everything in Christianity is idiosyncratic and new when
really there's no word that they invented that nobody else had. You know, there was no terminology,
really. Things can change theologically over time, but it was just another reflection of the ideas
and concepts, terminology, philosophy, scripture, in this case, you know, the Septuagint particularly
for Paul and the gospel authors. So the Jewish holy books, like all those things were out there
and Jesus just kind of becomes that funnel for all those different ideas.
Yeah, you have this amazing quote that you quote. I don't know who, Wilfred Cantwell Smith
quoted apparently, our earliest writings about Jesus are not only artifacts of the ancient
Mediterranean, but also artifacts of 2nd, 18th, 19th and 20th century thought.
That seems paradoxical, right? Like how? Except it's not, you know, like that's my point. You
know, we can't take what, I mean, these texts are so, this was so hard when I was writing the book.
I think I've said before, like I had to put post-it notes on my wall, like you don't know that
there's a, like you don't, you don't, like don't forget you don't know it because for 2000 years
there's been this development, this accretion on top of these of interpretation and there's that
and then there's what you know about the ancient Mediterranean world because you've been going
to school since you were four, you know, like I've been studying the same thing since I was about 12.
So, you know, like there's the thing you've been studying for the last 30 years and then there's
you know, what the theological interpretation is and there are moments when these things overlap
certainly. But yes, the way that these texts are treated says more about us today, the Germans,
you know, like creating the fields, more about what happens in the 2nd century when canon begins
to develop and the church fathers emerge and an authority institutional structure for the church
emerges and Paul, who again, nobody really, it's debatable how successful he was, you know, like
it's not clear exactly, you know, like we honestly don't really actually know what happens to him,
there's stories about what happens to him we don't actually know but by the 2nd century people are
writing letters pretending to be him, you know, you have Marcian, right, like you start to have
these people latch on to the thinkers and interpretations and texts that they like
and then they start saying like, well, this is the only way to understand this and they start
burning books and next thing you know, right, like that's about the 2nd, 3rd, 4th century,
right, like that's not about whatever was going on in the first and so I just try to be really
deliberate about like what do I know about the 1st century and not let the anachronism of the
other centuries. Yeah, you seem to build it chronologically like you start, if you start like
let's not assume anything, let's start and look what do we know and then like let's build upon
that rather than like viewing it from the top and bringing all the presuppositions that we've
built in academia and everything like that and I really appreciate that about your book.
One of the things and maybe you could help me with this but one of the things that I discovered
that blew my mind and I have looked at the Greek, I don't speak Greek, I don't read Greek, I've looked
at the Greek, I've tried to decipher it, I can't get it to work in Google Scholar but there was,
I heard somewhere and it's according to Google, there was this guy called Bayan of Barathens
who died in 250 BC and it's quoted that he said, the love of money is the mother city,
metropolises of all evil, so love of money is the mother city of all evils and that blew me away
because I thought that was an original like Jesus quote and I can't find if it's actually a true,
like if it's a accurate representation of what he said but I was like wow that's very interesting
that something that was on the lips of Jesus that I thought was like you know original Jesus
wasn't the same with Dr. Kip Davis pointed out that the Beatitudes were in not the exact
Beatitudes but the formula of the sayings blessed be in the Dead Sea Scrolls prior to the time of
Jesus and I thought that was original Jesus. Yeah some people say the golden verses of Pythagoras
are the basis for what we call the Our Father as well, the Lord's Prayer, yeah. Whoa so yeah
that was very interesting to me, are there any like major philosophies and things that sayings
and narrative tropes and things like that that you just see littered amongst the synoptic gospels?
Oh sure, I mean I see Stoic physics for sure, I don't think Mark makes any sense unless you know
Stoic physics, like how in the Greek like how is Jesus's power to coming out of him, how is he
and what does that mean? You know he the word in Greek often gets translated as something like
demon and sometimes he does talk to diamonds or whatever but like most of the time the word in
Greek when he talks to what gets translated as like a demon or a spirit is literally bad
Numa and his Numa talks to the bad Numa, you can only understand that if you understand ancient
physics because it's actually like a scientific explanation which gives me a lot of comfort for
like you know trying to reconstruct this historical circumstance of Christianity's you know emergence
because you know why would anybody have listened to anything Paul or anyone else had to say unless
he could back it up and he backs it up with the best science that's out there at the time
so he's able to explain like oh well you all know about Numa you know and so clearly Jesus
and then that eventually makes its way to the gospel writers probably because they were reading
Paul who knows all this ancient philosophy so likewise a lot of Jesus's teachings reflect what
is seen in the broader Greco-Roman philosophical world particularly Stoicism as well and this is
something that's been recognized for a very very long time just to kind of
nerd out for a minute and bore everyone buddy but the Yale school in the 20th century the
mid 20th and to you know like the third quarter of the 20th century really latched on to this
there are scholars like Wayne Beeks oh who wrote a Malherby he wrote a piece called Gentle as a
Nurse about how this is a phrase that I think Paul uses but you can find it in ancient philosophy
my dissertation director Stanley Stowers came out of the ale and he's written very
quite a bit on these ideas and he has a new book coming out with University of Edinburgh Press
which is a series of articles he's written over the years collected on Paul and physics and
you know this kind of interpretive stuff so lots of people have recognized it for a long time
a scholar I often cite too has a book forthcoming is Aaron Roberts who has a book on Matthew which
we often hear is the Jewish gospel right because it yeah quotes yeah but she points out a lot of
this stuff in Matthew comes right from the Stoics but we're so distracted by the fact that the
Hebrew scriptures are recited so much and trying to keep that in tension with the Stoicism seems
like it doesn't work but it totally works you know Paul's doing the same thing there are a lot of
aspects of Stoicism that worked for Judaism the idea of some kind of high god the idea that there's
certain fate to the universe there are cosmic cycles that occasionally god decides to kind of
wipe out humans and start over again I mean there are all kinds of aspects of Stoicism
that an ancient Jewish person would have read some of that philosophy and then like Moses said that
a long time ago right so back to that idea of cultural competition uh some of that you see
activated here um and these kind of discourses so um that that's what I tend to see I mean even
well I don't want to well okay Roberts is going to be writing about this and she pointed this out
to me so I want to give her credit but the word epilepsy in the gospel of Matthew the word is an
epilepsy in Greek it's moonsickness right so you have all kinds of interesting things that if you're
just reading a translation in English you don't necessarily pick up that's going on yeah yeah
talking about how things affect like how the the temple destruction still affects things today
someone a friend of mine recently yesterday messaged me and said that the end of the world
is happening this weekend or the rapture is happening this weekend because of something
and they also told me that the king james version was the perfect um version um of the bible uh and
I kind of realized like wait the king james is a translation like it's not even the like it's a
translation of the Greek not not like you know it's it's like one step removed like you can't
like you haven't even read the original if you if you if you're not reading the Greek and well
yeah I mean like those arguments I find very perplexing and actually I think um Dan McClellan
just recently did a tic talk about the queen james version um the talks about the king james version
and I recommend people go um watch that too which I found very interesting but um like you got to
keep in mind first of all back to what you're saying like what if they found like a codex of
mark right or somebody like any of the gospels um you're not gonna probably find that but even if
you did I assume it's in Greek uh and if it's in Greek and it has the teachings of Jesus Jesus
spoke Aramaic right yeah so you're already jumping yeah you're already in trouble um but we don't
have that codex right we don't have that scroll we don't have anything except as you mentioned these
little credit card scraps that start at best around the second century some people try to date
them to the first quarter of the second century so there are a few papyri that get dated around like
125 based on what's called um well on the handwriting you know like does the handwriting look like it
belongs to particular era but that's not a particularly reliable way I recommend people
look at Brett Nong Brees website on this he often talks about these papyri I think in a really
great way Canada Moss had a recent um Daily Beast article about this I recommend people look at
but um those dates probably you know I remember when that thing came out last week and everyone
was getting excited I'm like okay so they're gonna try to date to the second then they're
gonna decide handwriting it's not sufficient then they're gonna redate it um like first they're
gonna say it's early second because that's as early as they can go and then they're gonna
decide it's late second and then someone else is gonna come in it's like you know what I mean like
I knew what was gonna happen it was hard for me to gin up too much excitement um over it but even
when you get to the king james version some nerd has had to compile all of these little scraps
and had to pull together a bunch of different papyri and manuscript copies and codices from all
over the world and multiple languages including you know like syriac and crop like oh all these
are like and had to make all of these decisions based on how frequently one phrase is cited versus
another based you know like not all of these agree you don't have like this phenomenon of like every
single scrap we have agrees with each other they just found a scrap that's like part of
matthew a little bit of thomas you know what I mean like they don't yeah don't agree so that yeah
you're working off of something that's already a compilation that's already a translation of the
dude at that yeah yeah that you know the oral tradition theory I saw somebody say you know
his oral tradition theory um real I mean yeah I feel moon sick too um but yeah I mean people
pass on oral stories but they're not always the most accurate things in the world um certainly
and so you could probably probably discern some kernel of truth some people argue that
in a culture that was not particularly book literate that there were other you know devices for
uh memorizing things you know in a more secure way you know think about people who talk about
Homer and oral tradition as well but you know I'm often you know not to be too cynical but for those
who remember uh monty python and the life of brian you know the scene where he's like was it did he
say blessed are the cheese makers you know like it you have to imagine um there was monty python is
done so much for this the world yeah but it's but you know like that that idea of you know
misremembering can happen mistakes happen um you know Jesus was walking around according to the
gospels preaching to very small groups of people um who are peasants and and not trained to memorize
that right so there's there's many problems I think um with oral tradition theory in general and
um one one critique that I've heard that I want to take seriously is that if I dismiss oral tradition
there are cultures where you know there's oral culture and again like devices for memorization
and so people have sometimes said to me like well are you dismissing indigenous cultures by
challenging the concept of oral tradition but I I would just want to say Christianity is not an
indigenous culture um and so I want to be careful about how we imagine oral tradition working within
Christianity um what we later call Christianity because our tendency to treat Christianity as a
nation like a nationalist idea has gotten us into a lot of trouble so um we shouldn't imagine
Christians as a people in that yeah yeah yeah I mean I I've been doing a lot of
research into Aboriginal Australia actually and and there's just so many nations that I
had no idea existed here like I didn't know the names I didn't know the languages that like it was
just it was shameful that I lived in a country where I didn't know anything about our history
only a few hundred years ago and um one of the things that I that I that I found interesting
is they do have that they never develop writing as far as we know but they developed this oral
tradition but their oral traditions like they have um you know some people are pointing to that
they might have flown back to the ice age like 10 000 years ago because the way that they describe
things is very uh they're very simple stories but they work with the environment so like they'll
tell a story of like a snake splitting and that's how the rivers formed and stuff and
those stories help develop like they're not like they're not very they're not like sayings of Jesus
like they're not like very specific things they're they're these kind of um mythological
beautiful stories that um end up being broad but tell very specifics about that things um
so I don't know too much about it but yeah I get what you're saying it's very different yeah it seems
yeah yeah it's a different kind of thing yeah yeah we we have so many super chats I
think we should pivot over to that um so we don't run out of time if guys if you want to
really like this book it's just you are a brilliant brilliant writer um Dr. Robin it's it's fantastic
I can't wait to oh okay Dr. Robin sorry but it is just it's fantastic just like I'm gonna be
combing through this over and over again it's right on I said this before we started but I feel
like it's right between scholarship and like general reading uh and so for me I'm like I have to I
have to like sit at a desk and be like okay what is this like it's it's good it's challenging but it's
not um but it's not so challenging that I need to like get a dictionary out uh it's fantastic
guys if you like content like this um deep drinks has you know some awesome content coming up I have
a few more live streams scheduled I haven't posted them up yet but next week we have the
non alphabets coming on to talk about does God cause suffering which will be really good
if you want to support this channel we have a deep drinks patron you can check out um all the
different tiers we actually um now have a uh an archbishop which is really cool first of 18
and of course get this book I've said it a million times but get do whatever if you're
gonna spend any money today get the book for sure you also have a um a conference coming up
could you talk a little bit about this yeah so um Bart Ehrman put together a number of scholars
and the idea so it's called um new insights into new testament um something new insights
and i n t um and each of us has been tasked with talking about um some aspect of our research
and giving essentially a paper quote unquote um but give a taste of what it's like to go to
an academic conference but not do exactly what you're saying like make it challenging but not
make it so dense that you know it's impenetrable to anybody outside of the field so um the goal
is for people to sign up get a sense of some of the new work that's going on new research going
on within the field of early christian studies and the new testament um get to learn about the
individual research agendas at each one of these scholars uh i'm very flattered to be uh included
with people like you know uh mark goody canada moss um and jody magnets you know just glancing
right here yeah you know these are all fabulous people who do great work um so it's an opportunity
for us to just share what we're doing with the broader public um without having to feel like
you know you need to know ancient Greek or anything else we're all um just trying to make things
accessible and user friendly for the public awesome this is i'm very excited to check this out
you also have a tiktok which everyone you need to go this is amazing i love this this is so good
i'm keeping up with it and i really need to because i'm too like at least like on these things i just
like look at you when i don't you know what i mean like i my friends were like i don't see you as
being my father like you know staring at my phone yeah i think if you if you responded to people
like uh dan mcclellan does like you could like i mean although you might lose years of your life
because that yeah i don't i don't have it yeah well you know what i want to do is you know like how i
ended up on youtube in the first place like i'm trying to challenge myself and you know ethically
i think it's important you know to like not make education only accessible to people who pay tuition
which is outrageous to begin with you know um and so at first i was really resistant to tiktok
but i actually do have another initiative with canada moss and dan mcclellan we call the daskeloy
so people can go to the daskeloy.com which maybe i should spell somewhere um but if you go to my
there's a link to it on my website i'm sure it's on you know my twitter bio it's everywhere i've put
it everywhere it's um but it's the same thing you know each about every month six weeks one of the
three of us we rotate just give a lecture uh and literally like we would in the classroom
but for the public on a subject so i just did one on how do we know who the gospel writers are
i think canada is doing one uh around halloween on hell you know where do we get the concept of
hell from i think my next one's going to be ancient sci-fi um i've decided in november uh so
like the more i get to know you as a person the more i'm you david bowie references you had a
nine-inch nail reference talking about science and sci-fi i'd love you refer to the writers of the
the compiles of the king jane's bible as quote some nerd like i love that it's so good it's my
husband he's grounded i'll send him something sometimes like can you go to the library and get
this and he'll just there's a you know barts and some screaming nerd you know like then he'll just
send me that um there's uh last but not least of course you have an mvp course which people have
been commenting that they love i'm gonna have to check it out as well oh yeah yeah so so um it's
here 3995 there's a link in the um the description that will actually help deep drinks as well as
an affiliate link so if you want to check this out you're helping mid vision you're helping robin
you're helping myself so and it's i'm sure it's full of great content i haven't had a chance to
check it out but like i said people are saying that they love it so yeah this is lifetime access
nice emails from people about it um that i try to make paul actually understandable and yeah
i'm with paul because so many introductions to early christianity and the new testament start
with the gospels like they start with the baby jesus story but that's the latest thing like you
know you have to to understand early christianity you have to really start with paul and try to
understand what's going on in that first century context and we have another course that is already
in the can like we already recorded it at the same time as the paul course so also by the way
it was miami it was like 95 degrees and we were doing like 12 hour days recording that
like sweatier and sweatier and sweatier and like i lose the sweater and my hair starts to frizz so
you get to see like the evolution um but we recorded all of this as kind of a piece like
beginning with paul and telling his story and the next one is on the gospels so we just sorted
out the titles and i'm finishing up you know all that content you just saw to give a roadmap for
what you'll learn so those are available as well um and you know give you a sense of
yeah the class mvp courses like guys this is like this is really
high highly produced amazing content and i just i'm so glad you're doing more courses because
this is like this is like what you're saying it's it's unfair that um you know you have to pay this
huge tuition fee to get educated um i don't know if it's unfair but it's it's awesome at least that
you get to the chance to to do this and like people can check it out totally you know my my
father taught at a community college um when i'm not teaching uh for the university i teach for
the continuing ed program in my hometown it's very important to me um just again ethically
philosophically that this is not just you pay i mean i'm at university of miami a wonderful
institution but also very much like we're in miami it's a resort you go to south beach right and um
so it shouldn't just be the privileged few that have access to these things um if people
want it you know and so i like the democratization um that we can offer through these kinds of things
and um you know that's why i like to do these kinds of free events as well yeah awesome uh
so we have some amazing super chats first of all my boss vita media became a member thank you uh
vita media go david um deep lol i thank you so dr john d sorry was paul being uh being the
latest to talk to jesus coincidence or clever also what do you think of the theory that paul's
innovated the idea of jesus uh apotheosis apotheosis yeah sorry as a um a resurrection
so i always struggle with this kind of question because i am kind of cynical and i always want
to kind of self-check i mean it does feel like it was very convenient for paul you know the
coincidental or clever point here um i mean it's what he had to work with since he didn't know the
guy and he was sort of an interloper um but at the same time i have to believe that there was
something genuinely felt there about the situation because of what he put himself through for decades
right like it according to our evidence but i think strategically that really worked for him
i think we underestimate that um i'm persuaded by the martin scorsese scene um from the last
temptation of christ where jesus interacts with paul who says you know i i don't care if you're the
real jesus or not you know like if i have to crucify you i'll crucify you because people need god
you know you don't understand how much they need these ideas and i think that that's some semblance
of what's going on here um and so is it all good or bad i i wouldn't put a label on it but it is
strategic um so i think people underestimate that i think they also underestimate the degree to which
paul's version of following christ jesus did not involve circumcision was also important um and an age
where you know there's no painkiller there's no like there's no ice there's no man is selling
like you know so adult circumcision you know certainly happened um and was a cultural reality
but not necessarily an easy one and so um yeah i think that those strategic elements get underestimated
yeah thank you hank fashii for the fifth dollar super chat long oh my gosh long yinus a
pylon sorry i don't know how to say that word but and if so does this speak to the idea that these
riders were not going to actual eyewitnesses since they didn't use accurate terms to describe what was
in use by the allegiance um so the thing about so i think here we're thinking about luke um i think
is um you know the one place that we can i can go to for the concept of eyewitnesses uh i i think we
shouldn't um again i hate to say underestimate the degree to which the kind of claim to eyewitness
testimony was a very very common thing that historiographers and biographers did in the ancient
world um to claim that you've spoken to an eyewitness to seek out an eyewitness to say that
you've spoken to an eyewitness of an eyewitness um you see a lot of people do that um and use
different terminology to do that but even for things like you know a recording something like
an earthquake you know doesn't even have to be a biographical detail but uh i wouldn't get hung up on
uh i i don't think that they're talking to actual eyewitnesses um luke says that people
who from the beginning were followers of the word that doesn't mean they were eyewitnesses to Jesus
that can mean a lot of different things you know um and the generational gaps between eyewitness
testimony meaning what we wanted to mean historical Jesus and when these things get
written down it's it's too broad given life expectancy so um i think that the terms tend
to be more formulaic i hope that answers the question myth fiction podcast five dollars
thank you dr walsh uh i'm sorry not dr wash robin wash sorry for the money i don't know
saying dr walsh
called walshie well i'll give you an australian i should give you an australian um
like nick name walshie or something i don't know that's what my family calls me
polyfamous and cersey look very similar do you think this couple with virgil's uh
hercules cave account is being imitated yeah sure i think that these are the kind of things
we definitely need to look at um denis mcdonnell would probably say go back to Homer
and i i like denis's method you know um but i think that i think that derrick's asking this in
park as he knows i have an article coming out saying mark redford virgil which i appreciate
the opportunity for the plug um but i think that these kinds of motifs are informing these authors
for a variety of possible reasons not only let's say you know we've speculated they'd be filling
in a gap but they're missing otherwise trying to allude to the importance of their narrative
relative to other narratives that are out there um but also as a possibly an apologetic you know
like my foundational account you know you know as important as something like what virgil or
homer is producing um it's the same kind of cultural impact and import so i think that it's
a strategy that goes across the board awesome another five dollars which had from the vision
what are a few of your favorite uh imitations in the gospel uh in the gospel virtual homer
or any greek sources can you explain why it's uh imitation you debone um yes sure thanks for the
for the softball um so the thing that i argue in the article that's going to come out is that um
especially in mark there's a tendency sometimes it's referred to as the messianic secret
or ally to that concept but you know jesus keeps telling people don't tell anybody who i am
on one hand but also uh repeatedly in the text uh no one seems to know who jesus is so jesus will
come in he'll perform so quite a miracle and everybody is the word as thalma in greek everybody
is dumbfounded they're like glowing out of their minds and bewildered and they don't understand
what they've just seen and they run away like dazed and confused who was that guy right um so that
happens over and over again that term thalma happens in virgil happens in other writers too
but i latched on to virgil um and again homer too is operational here but i think virgil is the
closer corollary temporally but also in terms of the content he has figures like camilla
come in to scenes where you know she's such a subversive character because she's like a military
figure but she's a woman um i think the phrase is that you know she's not concerned with the
baskets of manurva you know like she's very much um like this marshal character and when she will
like ride into town people are she's a thalma people are dumbfounded they're bewildered
they're almost going out of their minds they don't know how to make sense of this person
because she is such a subversive character and so i argue that in terms of like literary
construction it seems to me that the author of the gospel of mark you know we ascribe to this
idea of thalma some kind of theological category like messianic secret right there must be a
theological reason nobody knows who he is oh he's trying to delay his own you know execution by
telling people like uh by telling people not to reveal who he is or um they're by instilling this
kind of confusion because if he instills this confusion then he can delay the inevitable
you know like crucifixion um sure that could be part of what's going on except it's a very
much a literary motif that you find in virtual right so like there are characters that come in
nobody understands who they are because they're so uh outside of the ordinary and people are
dumbfounded and they walk away like the wilderness who was that person so it's just another literary
motif and then this opens up a whole other set of issues you know um is the author of the gospel
of mark reading latin uh probably you know based on the way people were educated the way
libraries were constructed it's just it opens up a whole other you know again range of possibilities
for thinking about his authors is it like if the gospels were written in like ancient chinese
that we if like you started quoting like the daotiching oh i think it's the daotich yeah
you'd be like hmm something suspicious here like is it is it kind of like that is that is like you
know uh something i did in the book you asked me before we started like what's something no one's
asked you about i'll tell you that book is full i did it on purpose is littered with my own cultural
references so that someone in the future would know when i wrote it like and they would know
what i listen to and what i watch and what and i mean everybody does that to some extent you
can't avoid it to to your point you know these things these culturally dominant narratives
make their way in as we integrate ourselves into them as new writers as thinkers who emerge
you know within a particular time and space but i did it on purpose so that people could really
see what i was trying it's kind of like a meta thing that i did in the book yeah um and some
of it's obvious like i talk about france wash gilot at the end of the book um some of it is like
a footnote to the beetles you know yeah i think i have a day in the life i ended up keeping that
that's john lennon you know i'm obsessed with john lennon i was born in 1980 um you know like you
so it'd be like you know nirvana is going to show up somewhere in something i write i love that
no but i can hear i can almost hear your husband in the background going no i love that though
no but like these are the this is where how i grew up you know and um it puts me in time and space
i'm writing an article right now that quotes little kim like in the title like i i'm trying to
like include these things i they date me and they're probably a little corny but it actually to me is
displaying the thing that i'm doing to the ancient text right um and you can from there extrapolate
all kinds of things about influences and you know some of it's encoded in the scholars i fight you
can probably figure out where i went to school you know and you can decide if it matters that i'm
a mother or whatever else right um based on but i i try to do that as like another level
intentional level of discourse in the book so yeah i think these things are out there that's
awesome you know i i didn't grow up with the beetle oh i probably did but i didn't like the
beetles or anything until i read um haruki murakami's novel norwegian wood it's a bit perverted it's
a bit uh it's teen angst depression you know like all that kind of stuff that you go through as a young
adult and uh and that book is he's written about nor is norwegian wood but it's it references the
song and when i after i was like i wonder what the song is about and i listened to the song
and that song hit me like it like it's it's somehow like he's a brilliant writer he just
wrapped it all up for me and it was just like i could see the story even though it's not really
about what the story it's just i don't know how to describe it but i became a huge fan and since
then i put on um here comes the sun and you know norwegian wood and i'm bathing our boy atlas
yeah when i was giving when i was giving birth i uh had like john the john lennon catalogue
catalog to like calm me down you know like that yeah that's what i thought to the delivery room
with me and it's like you know for one reason or another and i used to think it i'm not special
because i like i used to be obsessed with the titanic and i love john lennon and then i realized
like it's just a thing from being from massachusetts because um you know many people on the toxic red
socks fan um thankfully the game was in a rain delay when we started this um they're playing
yankees right now but um uh there's this uh podcaster named jared carabas that i listen to um
every sunday and wednesday he really but like he gives me like a little community like disassociated
community back to network with it but he's obsessed with you know like the titanic tune
i'm like oh this is just a massachusetts thing like this is like it's like it's totally what i mean
like when i try to locate the gospel authors or figure out who these authors like you can figure
out like down to like regional stuff sometimes you know like who who these um people who just
are producers of culture are and yeah i think that's kind of fun yeah my friend used to be
uh guys no more superchast because we're going to get through these but um but thank you so so much
for the um superchast but when my uh when my boss and i used to drive he could look at a car and
tell you who was driving that car before we passed them he'd be like this is a middle-aged mum she's
stressed out from coming home from soca and like he would and then you drive past like that looks
exactly like he was just so good he was a car person and he just knew what the kind of car
that someone bought and he's like this is an art student they're um depressed and they you know
you drive past in there 100 percent yeah yeah because i used to have cute ass cars before i had
a baby and then i had to trade in the cute car for the white Volvo and it breaks my heart and
sometimes my husband's like well you know maybe you can get a new car at some point what do you
want i'm like don't even ask me that question because the sting 73 stingray is not apparently
available if you have a toddler you know right so yeah no i think that's totally right it's
interesting sorry i'm good no that's okay i just i just want to i just don't want to take too much
of your time um but um i'm working my way through your mb course excellent uh dr sheryl thank you
for the tenderloin sub chat what do you uh make of the psychological dichotomy of paul's personalities
from persecuting jesus followers to becoming the leader of the gentiles you know it's super interesting
um you know i don't it's not even clear to me what his persecution entailed like he talks about
pursuing these people i don't know if you just kind of follow people around like aggravating them
it seems like he might have been kind of a bag man you know at some point it's kind of unclear to me
what his job was but it seems like he was out in the field enough to kind of realize again don't
want to be too cynical but he had to see that there were people out there you know here here he is
like a mid-level bureaucrat like having to travel around like he's like on the road like at minimum
like having to harass people to you know fall into line with some kind of you know orthodox point
of view but he must have seen how many people were out there able to sort of innovate um become you
know um sort of entrepreneurial on their own i don't like that language because it's like a
little bit too late capitalist for me but i just use it to illustrate what i mean like people were
out there claiming to have some kind of connection to gods or have some kind of special uh interpretation
of scripture and they could get followers and they could get people to patronize them and they
could become like house philosophers and you know maybe at some point like it just started to make
sense to him that you know not to continue this this line that he of work he was in before and
that he could strike out on his own now if you couple that like the psychological dichotomy like
let's assume that his so-called conversion experience was real and he thinks that he sees a resurrected
christ figure and he's a Pharisee who already is inclined to interpret resurrection as a valid
idea theological idea then i could start to see how this what you see what i mean like i could
i could see how this could happen so it's always that balance between the practical and the
theological again you know like you you want to think the best of people but he had to see that
there were like people out there like starting their own small jesus business and doing a lot
better than having to like the depressing road trip possibly murder people yeah yeah i might make
yeah uh hang for she thank you again for super chat are there any apologetics around the idea of
defending christianity from criticism based on the fact that jesus didn't write anything down
that anyone knows of so is that like um how do people explain that away is that kind of the
idea of the question from criticism based on the fact that jesus so you know just just to be
clear there there's a scene in the gospel of john where he writes in the dirt um you know so so some
people say he he writes later iconography of jesus often has him holding writing implements uh or
schools so there was an intent to the idea of apologetic to integrate um these sort of obvious
gaps um into uh other ways that people were thinking about these issues or telling these stories
so overt apologetics for why jesus isn't writing anything down himself um you know i think what
what has happened is instead there's this idea that his disciples um you know i've heard i've heard
some people say something like well if literacy was on average like 10 to 12 percent in the ancient
world he had 12 disciples one of them should have been able to write like i i hear yeah those kinds
of things yeah logic yeah yeah i guess uh that's not really how that works well there's a selection
bias as well like you're not like when jesus is choosing his disciples he's choosing like fishermen
and he's not going to like you know the local tax house and asking for the best tax collector
yeah and there's a debate that you know like i think we need to continue to have as a guild
and i think there are people who are more um you know educated on this stuff than i am but like
there's a school of thought to wonder like can ascribe write prose literature some probably could
some were probably just trained to take and canada moss is written about this um to take
shorthand and reproduce the thing that they've been tasked with reproducing right without their
own editorial i necessarily um or some people are just trained to be able to write a receipt
or send a letter not necessarily write you know crow's literature and so i think we need to think
about those technical aspects uh in more detail hmm okay jason rollins thank you for the tindall
super chat what is the best evidence for the existence of oral traditions people saying that
they're engaged in that um you know i think there there was a book recently on esau
and the name of the scholar is starting to escape because it's getting late um but you want a macArthur
for it so if you look up esau and macArthur it's gonna come up um but you know there's an idea
that you can possibly um tell that certain ideas are part of some kind of oral storytelling tradition
and i think that they're really i saw someone else have a question about like you know is there
one definition for all tradition within the field because it sounds like it's a little bit fuzzy
there are different approaches to it um there are homeric scholars who have a different approach
which can be different from scholars who sometimes make cognitive arguments or arguments from cognitive
science i'm trying to say that again like in an oral culture oral tradition is more prevalent than
in a text-based culture the problem with that sometimes is that you can start to sound sound
like you're making the ancients seem like they have different brains than we do but they don't
evolution doesn't work like that um so that could be problematic there's um some scholars who work
in this area who will talk about poetry and the idea of being able to pass down oral poetry
uh i think Dick Horsley Richard Horsley has written about this um i remember taking a
seminar from him once where we read um a bunch of uh this scholar named Foley who is written on
this the idea of oral storytelling and oral poetry um being one corollary for thinking about
oral tradition uh in the ancient world the problem with that um is these are not poems
you know like this is the problem with comparing the new testament to home or two these aren't poems
um that are being passed down um so it's just i mean i'm the wrong person to ask for the best
evidence for this it's like you're asking a stillman it's like steelmaning the opposition right
like stillmaning the yeah no but it's not that i don't think that some of these things came from
things that people were talking about it's not that i don't think you know that it's not possible
that some saying uh whether it's in the canonical gospels or outside of it comes from what we would
call the historical Jesus i just don't know how to tell i i i just don't i just don't know as a
scholar how to tell you that i know this this or that comes from oral storytelling i don't know
how to confirm for you especially given even like again luke's preface that tells me his he tells me
he's reading stuff you know like um the texts tell us these guys are reading um and so i don't i
don't see a lot of evidence for oral oral tradition and even what we have um i think a lot of that
comes later i think that comes later um i think and the life expectancy was like what 24 or something
at the time 20 22 to 23 yeah yeah okay but that doesn't mean that people didn't leave to old ages
it's just that there are no no um so the the number just quick is uh childbirth from women
war for men pandemics which were quite prevalent especially around Rome um you know mosquito
born illnesses and that kind of thing uh generally there was a thought in the ancient world that if
you could make it to about 40 middle eight that you'll make it to about 70 because you've gone
through all the childhood illnesses you've probably built up some immunity you're too old to be
conscripted you're past childbearing age you know like if you could get through that gauntlet
then yeah you know like okay to be in his 70s yeah okay d has an amazing switch on what archeological
um sorry was archeological oh my gosh my brain what archaeology can sit in the book or just
literary study yeah i talk about um if by by archaeology um some of our material finds
i talk about the work of a woman who's not princeton amary line dyke um who did her work at
harvard her doctor work at harvard and she's worked um on many of these ancient trash heaps
where we find all those credit card you know like these crowds of things but she's worked on other
you know like library finds and things like that and um she actually came out with an
book chapter uh right before this book went to press that i was able to incorporate as well
so that's why i remember it uh of a library of somebody who had a couple of pages of i think it
was paul's letters to the romans along with um like some play dough and some other stuff so it's a
great way to get an idea of what people were reading um i do some work on ancient libraries
and technologies of writing which i consider part of material culture as well or archaeology
so um if you are interested in archaeology though that's kind of for the other side of my life so
the book deals with some of that but i have some articles out there about like my indiana jones stuff
so i've done stuff on those aches uh an inscription the little pin thing i mentioned is going to be
another archaeology piece so i i kind of keep those a little bit separate and the other scholar
i've mentioned a couple times who does great work on this is canada moss uh also brett nong brie uh i
think his work is is excellent um and so they're and then their bibliography will will launch you
into other directions too so those three um wow your indiana jones stuff you just become more
and more fascinating uh t what does thank you for the final subject what does i guess think of the
the jesus scroll supposedly found in the ruins of massada i don't know what that is
neither do i the jesus scroll found in the ruins of massada they found some sorts they
thought was from they thought were from massada like last week i don't know what the jesus
we're friends on facebook and she posts the most incredible stuff it's it's uh it's really she's
really i'm sorry d should i should i google it real quick yeah okay because maybe that's
just a terminology for something that i already know about jesus school it's like the um it just
reminded me of the um the shroud of turen does that yeah oh i could talk about that
yeah okay um okay there's a book called the g okay this is like i'm getting too many hits
so this is why i'm saying i don't know what that is because i don't know exactly what the
reference is um there's apparently a book and then there's something about jesus yeah genealogy
and i um so sorry but but the shot of turen um this is my big problem okay so there's all kinds
of issues like with the carbon dating i can't believe that they let them sniff it to do carbon
dating when it was in a fire um anyway so like the car that was like the whole point so like the
carbon dating like is not going to get you anywhere my big issue with the shroud of turen is that he
didn't look like that until later iconography the earliest iconography of jesus he's clean shaven
with a short haircut and a magic wand like he did the the shroud looks like the later jesus and it
also takes a theological stance on him being you know like um not very muscular you know and
right so this the shroud just it's like too convenient yeah it too tightly corresponds with
um that that image of jesus that i don't think is historically necessary oh there you go um
shroud of turen debuts by dr rovin well yeah uh so mythician again the wea passages literal
a literary or literal why literary um there there there's a tradition of wea passages
so sometimes um i think it happens in accent i think luke um occasionally slips into a
second person for a plural voice um so like we went into do this and we went to do that but
there's um there's some scholarship out there several articles about how this is a common
thing that happens and other kinds of ancient literature and it's just kind of like a
inclusive phrase so i'll defer to um i'll find if i can follow up the bibliography i can't remember
the name of the person who wrote the article i don't know why i have such a blank on this and i
you know this article comes up all the time and i have to ask my friend like who was that again
so it's really shameful but there's there's some there's some literature out there on the wea
passages so i would just recommend people take a look on academia.edu is a great place to find
this stuff for free academy.edu okay no worries uh so i have um this is one last super chat thank
you for staying for a little a little bit extra to answer these i really appreciate it thank you
everyone who did super chat hang for she ten dollars i'm arguing they uh inherently with a
fierce about the phrases like the stars will fall from the sky he ignores the idea of uh the
rake here sorry um that keeps suggesting the idiomatic phrases tf and we do and how do we know
um kind i mean how much is it i the way i understand this is how much do we take some of
the claims that we see in scripture literally and how much is like just kind of idiomatic
meaning in that case i i would think like just like we were talking like dead and gone you know
like dive and bury you know how much of this um ignores the idea of the idiomatic phrases um i
think you have to take people seriously for the things that they claim right because if you just
think that everything's idiomatic um then um or you know just kind of um formulaic then you might
miss some of the nuance um and in missing the nuance or assuming um that we already understand the
interpretation of something you may be taking on later interpretations and taking them for face
value or taking them for granted when you can untangle something more distinct about you know
ancient claims um so i'm sure like some people probably signed off the second i was like yeah
paul didn't say juice this is on the moon and people are like click but you know i'm sorry but like
that's what the text says um which is something that sounds creepy to us right like ghost apollo
but um apollo mission but like it's yeah yeah you know like the same stuff is there it's the same
with um abraham and you know your your children will outnumber the stars in the sky again when i
was fundamentalist i caked the levity stars they were and i caked on the rate of like human and
i was like wow we got like billions of years before the end of the world because like they
you know fruit outnumber the stars in the sky and it's like yeah anyway oh no no that was not a you
that was my husband just gave me the baby monitor oh yeah no sorry so i'm okay uh all right thank you
for saying uh over time we actually that was the last super chat so where um all the good guys
check out this book honestly you won't be disappointed check out the mbp course or the
other links that we discussed today that absolutely your your work is absolutely fantastic um i can't
wait to hope to meet you one day and i'll get you the signed um and it'll probably be scuffed and
full of uh more notes and things so um but uh thank you so much for coming on yeah no it was my
pleasure um have me back anytime uh where i'll actually if this is what i'm like on tea um you
know imagine what i'm like you know sometimes i feel like i'm more coherent when i've had a couple
of drinks because i'm my my brain can settle down a little bit but other times uh like it's a fine
line sometimes we've had episodes that go for quite long and uh i've had professors uh you know i
think uh denison mcdonnell came on and we drank we drank scotch it was just just asked us to drink
a scotch and it was great it was great good evening to me i mean my thing is i've always been sad that
drunk history went away before i had tenure you know because like i couldn't have gone on a show
like i you know i couldn't have narrated a show like that before tenure now i have it they can't
fire me and the show's gone so um anything yeah any any drunk history uh outlet and uh i'd be
fulfilling a dream so awesome there's so much you know i had three pages of notes we barely
touched them so much more i want to talk to you about but we'll leave it for another time thank
you so much for coming on and guys the book everything go follow on tiktok for sure and
every night that's so yeah see you guys thank you bye
you
