...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
Welcome to Deep Drinks podcast, where the drinks are deep and the conversations are deeper.
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
today. For centuries, each sect of Christianity called other
sects heretical. These were not small disagreements. These were
wild and incompatible belief systems. Early Christianity
continued through history until one version of Christianity was
accepted by Constantine, the Roman emperor, making that
version of Christianity vastly more influential, leading to the
death of other major Christian sects and ideas. Today, we'll be
doing a deep dive into these lost Christianities and drinking
red wine in remembrance of them. My guest today is Neil, who is a
content creator, making academic videos on history,
mythology, psychedelics, and early Christianity. He goes by
Gnostic Informant on YouTube and as a new fan of his work, I am
very excited to have him here today. Welcome, Neil, Gnostic
Informant. Thanks for having me. This is awesome. I like your
show too. I've been watching your show too.
I'm so thankful to Derek, who put me in touch with you to have
you on because I truly am. I looked at your content and I'm
like, how I've been subscribed for ages, but I haven't been
watching the videos. You know how you do that sometimes?
Yeah, of course. Yeah, I'm just so interesting. You suggested
that we talk about early Christianity. I was like, oh,
yeah, I'm really interested in that subject. I listed a few
things that I knew about, and then you started telling me
things you knew about, and I had no idea what you're talking
about. So I am so excited to learn about that today. So
welcome, Neil. Let's get this. What are we drinking today? I've
already mentioned it, but we're drinking red wine, right?
Red wine made straight from Jesus. We're drinking it in
remembrance of early Christian sex. Yes, yes, this is what
we're doing. So this, guys, thanks for everyone who's
coming out. I see a lot of new faces. I love seeing you guys
in the chat. Make sure to ask your questions, and we'll try
and get to them at, you know, at earliest convenience. Neil,
could you tell us a little bit about yourself first? Yeah, my
name is Neil. I have a channel called Gnostic Conformant,
and I was, I used to be a Christian who, you know, got
saved, if you will, after a life of battling with
substance abuse, and then went to prison, and went to, and then
got saved in there, and then got, when I came out, went
joined a church, was really fundamentalist for a few
years, and then I started studying as much as possible
about early Christianity and digging into different, you
know, different, uh, different ideas of Christianity, and I
started to sort of become a heretic in my own sense
before I've deconverted completely. So my last stop as a
theist was Gnostic, and then I just kind of, that didn't last
long at all, maybe, maybe, but it's still, it still felt like
it feels a part of me because it was like my branch, my, my
bridge out of Christianity, and then I started the channel
Gnostic Conformant, and I started interviewing a lot of
scholars about these early Christian groups, you know,
Bart Ehrman, David Litwa, others as well. So Celine Lilly,
John Clappenbauer, Tony Burke, these are scholars who are,
they are professors who write about, translate these texts,
and they are very knowledgeable of these early groups that
the church calls heretics. They didn't call themselves Gnostics,
they definitely didn't call themselves heretics, they called
themselves Christians. So there is a, that's a big thing,
and, and, and to start off this conversation, I think
one way to look at it is the way we see Mormons and Catholics
today as being so far apart from each other. We look at them
like opposites, but in, in reality, Mormons and Catholics
have more in common than early Christians do. Yeah. Oh, but
they have way more overlap. They at least believe the same
thing about Jesus. And I, this is something I really like,
I'm so excited to, to show people this information because
it's not something that like, this isn't like, I never want
this channel to just be one big atheist roast on religion,
right? I love religion for, for, for, for different reasons
than I loved it when I was religious. But, right, I think
this is interesting for Christians as well. I think
this is interesting for anyone because it's, it's talking
about the most influential religion in the world, and
it's like early roots that like a lot of people don't know
about, and it's, it's, it's absolutely fascinating. Some
people have mentioned in the comments already that I got
some things wrong about Constantine. Can you correct
any of my opening remarks? Oh, I forgot, I don't know what
you, would you say Constantine made Christianity? Yeah, I
thought. Oh, yeah. So, they're probably talking about
Theodosius. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Constantine got
converted. But, you know, there was that, that other
Solemn Dictus religion was still a thing. Neoplatonism is
still a thing. And then like, a couple, a couple decades
later, towards the end of that century, Theodosius comes
in, and he's the one who really said, okay, it's
Christianity from here right now. In fact, we're going to
shut down the temples, shut down the libraries. And not, not
only that, if you're not, if you're not even this certain
type of Christian, we're going to go after you. And he
actually sent out people to go and kill and search for
some of these Christian groups that we're going to talk
about. Right. Okay, cool. The real so-called martyrs
are these groups, which is interesting. So, the part that
I kind of glossed over a little too briefly was, yeah,
that Constantine was the first Roman emperor to become
Christian. And I've heard arguments that it was
because of, I think Bart Ehrman talks about this,
Professor Bart Ehrman talks that it was Constantine's
acceptance of Christianity that was really the pitchfork in
the road. So, maybe that's where I got that information.
That's common, everyone. But hey, I'm here learning today.
This isn't, this isn't me telling what I know. This
isn't me learning. And also conformant. And I'm not, I'm
not like an expert, like, I'm not like a peer. You're both
just, but I do, but I am comfortable with this
conversation because I'm in it so much. So, you know,
obviously don't, don't, don't take me as the authority
of this stuff. That check. Go look this up. But I am
getting this from experts and I am. But, and if I do
speculate, I will say it. I will say it. Here's my
personal opinion. And that was like, you will see me do
that a few times, obviously. Awesome. Awesome. So, if we
could, I would like to start this conversation by
addressing, addressing your perspective of Christianity.
And let's call it, let's, let's go with the, let's, let's
see, like, give us the consensus historical view of
Christianity from, as best you can, from, as if you're
talking to someone who's only known about Christianity
from like Sunday school and church. Like, they think
it was just the disciples went, they preached
throughout the land and then it grew, like, give us
what is early Christianity? Yeah. So, the church
perspective is that Jesus taught 12 disciples and, you
know, he died on the cross and resurrected and then
taught, told them to go out to the ends of the earth and
teach this message. And they all took that message and
taught everybody in the Roman Empire and they were,
they were persecuted for so many years and
there are martyrs and it was poor Christians for 200
years and then magically Constantine gets converted
and there's only one line from, from Constantine to Jesus
and it's just perfect. There's nothing else. That's
what you hear from the church. But in reality, it's
completely different. The reality is we have no idea
what Jesus said. We don't know what his actual beliefs,
what his actual sayings were. We don't know if there
was 12 disciples. We don't know any of that. We know
that when we start to see actual texts pop up, they're
all different. They're all, like, wide-ranging. The
people in Alexandria, Egypt, there's Sethians there who
believe in trans-migration of the soul, which is
reincarnation. And you have people in Phrygia that think
that there is, like, some sort of syncretic idea of
the Christ. That's sort of like Addis and we'll get
into that too. But, like, basically what I'm saying
is when we start seeing documentation of Christians,
right off the bat, they're just wide-ranging and
different. They're not, like, they're not coherent
and, like, there's not, like, a core orthodoxy or
anything like that. It doesn't even, that's not even a
thing until way later.
Yeah, so I understand that we have, we have the four
Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. They're
anonymous, right? I know that much, that they're
anonymous and they were written somewhere between, I
think, 40 years after Jesus died to 70 years after
Jesus died, right? Yeah. They don't claim to be
written by eyewitnesses. They, I think John says
that he's talking to someone who was an eyewitness
that was, that is reliable. But besides that, we
don't know who wrote these Gospels, like, explicitly.
That's, like, a known, like, I don't think anyone
really argues to that, although you're a few people
who do argue that. But the majority of scholars
don't argue that. They're anonymous. Are there any
other writings from that era that could be considered
that didn't get canonized into the, into Scripture?
Well, I would say, second century, we start seeing
a lot more Gospels. Like, there's a, there's a text
called The Gospel of Peter, and this one was
really popular and it almost made the canon. This
was very close to making it into the canon.
Really? And, and they're, in this text, there's a
giant talking cross that wouldn't have a face
and can talk. And, and just, I wish so badly
that this would have made the canon. Because
can you imagine apologetics trying to, trying to
figure this thing out? And they would. That's how
apologetic. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, God can do anything. He can make anything.
Oh, yeah. Well, you, you have talking snakes and,
I mean. That's what I'm saying. This is not
anything crazy, but like, it didn't make the canon.
But if it did, I would, I would just love it
because it would be one of those easy,
you guys have talking crosses, guys. But like, this
was not considered heretical until later on. This
was one of the popular texts. There's also Gospel
of Mary in which Mary Magdalene, she's the one
who receives, she's the highest disciple out of
all of them. She's the one who, who receives the
secret message from Jesus himself that the other
ones don't know. And they're all attacking her.
And then I think the only Peter comes to her
defense. That's an interesting one. There's also
a Gospel of Judas and Judas gets told
beforehand, listen, man, there's going to be,
there's going to be 12 disciples. You're going
to be called the 13th and they're all going
to hate you and they're going to oppose you
for the ages. But you are doing, you are doing
the most important job and you have to do it.
So Judas knows this secret knowledge and he
has to go through with it. And so this one
flips everything on its head.
Whoa. So I do know, is there like, I know there
there's an early Gospel somewhere where it
actually talks about Jesus as a child as well.
Like doing miracles as a child.
That's the one where, that's the infancy Gospel.
And he, in that text, Jesus is like a child
wizard who kills another, another kid.
Like literally pushes him off like, doesn't he
push him off like a, yeah, tell us about that.
Tell us about this infancy.
I, I don't know exactly all the details because
it's been a while since I've looked at it, but
yeah, in that text, there's a, there's Jesus as a
kid and he's just like this whiz kid, just secret.
This is like super smart, like genius magical
wizard kid. And yeah, they're like picking on him
and then he like shows them, shows off his magic
and then kills the one kid and they're all like, oh,
shit, let's get away from this kid.
But yeah, that is, that, yeah, that's one of the,
that's one of the more, I haven't, it's been a
while since I've looked at that one. So I don't
really remember anything besides that. That one
is crazy. Yeah, that one's crazy.
So that, so Max and Dee both said it's the
infancy gospel of Thomas. So people can go and
look at that after this. But yeah, so, so, okay.
So maybe you can tell us about some of these
Christian, these major Christian sects.
Sure. So there's the Sethians.
They are located in the area of Alexandria,
Egypt, but there's also, I believe they also,
there's also a lot of them scattered throughout
in like Asia Minor, modern-day Turkey too,
in Syria. And they had this text called the
The Apocryphon of John. And it's this like weird,
like really strange text about this unknown God
who is the, the, the only thing there is in the,
in the beginning. And the, and from him emanates
ions. And these ions are first of them, the first
one's called Barbello. And this Barbello is
almost perfect. There's almost as perfect as the
unknown God, but it's a little bit less, a little
bit more dimmer light. And then from this ion,
emanates more ions. And as these ions keep going
on, they're little, they're less and less light.
And they start getting darker and darker to the
bottom. And then there's an ion called Sophia,
which is wisdom in Greek. And she creates
Yelda Boeth, who is the Old Testament God. And
this Yelda Boeth thinks that he's the only God
there is. He thinks he's in control, but he's
mistaken. And he creates, and he creates, yeah,
go ahead.
So is this the similar, similar alien, or is
this, is this, what is, this sounds like Lord of
Rings? Like, what is it?
Yeah, it's wild. It's wild. And so, yeah, so this,
this is, what, what, what sect is this again? Sorry,
I'm just going to, you know, the Sathians.
And yeah, this is their, this is their central
text. And it's completely, their cosmology and
their theology has nothing to do with, like, what
Christians today are talking about. It's completely
different. And so they have this, they have, so
Sophia is actually the serpent that comes in the
garden. So she comes and tells Eve, listen, that
God that you think is your creator, he's a liar,
he doesn't know what he's doing, eat from the
tree of knowledge, because that's what's going to
make you a God. So they turn, they make the story,
so Eve's the good one, or yeah, they, they put,
they, they praise Eve as like, she's the one who
brought knowledge into the world, she saved
everybody. And so, Sophia was the serpent, the
serpent disguised as a serpent. So they, they take
the text that's in the Genesis, and they just
tweak it however they want. And so there's that
version of that text. The Valentinians have a
very close, are very close to the Sathians, but
they're more Pythagorean. They, they have this
like, gematria system, everything's numbers. Jesus
is gematria is 888 in Greek. So he's like this
like, perfect logos, because there's, there's
20, there's 24 letters in the Greek alphabet.
There's eight Monads, eight, uh, Heptads, or
eight Agduans. And so he's 888, he is the word,
he's the all convincing alphabet. And then
there's, uh, they also had this, so Valentinian,
what Valentine, Valentinus was, uh, one of the
most highest bishops in the Roman Empire. So
we're, well, this is, this, this is so important
to, to, to put this point across, because we're
not talk, when we are not talking about random
hermits in the middle of nowhere, we're talking
about mainstream Christianity. This was
mainstream. This was, they weren't like, oh,
where the hair, or they weren't getting called
heretics in their time. You don't understand
that? Like, like, they didn't get called
heretics until later. And during his time
period, he was popular and famous. He almost
became the Bishop of Rome, which is like the
Pope. And so this was, he had a student named
Marcus Magus, Marcus Magus, who, um, had, who had
a trinity. And it was the, the Monad, which splits
off into the Duod. So it's all mathematical
stuff. But this Duod was Christ and Zoe. So
Christ is the Logos, Zoe is life. And then if
you look at the book of John, it says in the,
in the beginning was the Logos, and the Logos
was with God. And then the first four, it says,
and the life, and the life was, life and life
was with, was with Christ or whatever. So
you can see how they're getting this from the
text. This is all from the Bible. They're not
just like making this up randomly. They're
getting this from John. Like, they're, they're,
they're backed by the Bible. They have like
reasons to believe in what they believe in.
And so they get, they get deemed heretical
later on. But the, this idea of the, the
Old Testament being, you know, not, not all
good and not the all powerful, you see this
with Marcyon. And Marcyon is from Sinope,
which is in Turkey. And he has this idea that,
look, look at, look at this, look at Genesis
1. And God's looking for Adam. How does he
not know where Adam is? If he's all known,
he should know where Adam is. And not only
that, he should have known that Adam was
going to take from, we're going to eat from
the fruit, which means he's not all knowing.
He can't be the God. He can't be this our God.
And by the way, he, and Marcyon points to the,
to the text of Elijah and says, why wouldn't all
good God allow his prophets to send she bears
to go eat, to go kill some kids because they
called him Baldi. So Marcyon uses the same
arguments that we use today when we, when we
criticize the text, like you see like Aaron
Roth always talks about, you know, how the
she bear thing. Like you always hear this,
like, but like Marcyon was already on that
early on. He was already talking about this
stuff. He was already pointing this stuff out
early on. And so Marcyon made a, made a
canon that was just the gospel of, I think
it was John, or it might have been Luke, but
I can't remember, but it was Paul's epistles,
and then one of the gospels. That was the
can, he was the first Christian to do a
canon. And then the last thing I want to
mention before, you probably have a bunch of
questions, because people, Marcyon's idea of
the Old Testament God being, being like
evil is nothing compared to the Canites.
There's this group of Christians called the
Canites, and they're called the Canites
because they, they thought Cain was the
good guy, because in the text of Cain and
Abel, Abel offers up an a lamb. Cain offers
up, you know, his vegetables. So Cain being
a teller of the land, he's peaceful. He's
not, he doesn't need to kill animals and
offer blood to a God. He's peaceful. He's the
vegetarian one. So like he's good. And then
they said that Eve, Eve is good. Eve's the
good one. And they said Judas is also the
good one. They flipped the entire Bible on
its head. Every character that's bad is now
good. Every character that's good is now
bad. And they thought that, yeah, they were
completely anti, anti Old Testament. And
they just thought that this God, Yahweh, is
completely evil because he needs blood
sacrifices and that's evil.
So, so for a Christian who has gotten
this far in this already without turning
off, for someone who's, who's watching this
as a Christian, they may be thinking, how
on earth can they get these things from
the scriptures? These are wild. These crazy.
But I want to point something out to you.
This is something that, that I struggled
with while going through ministry college
when I was learning about the Bible and
things like that. That is that Jesus told
his disciples, they were, they were, they
were walking out of the temple one day and
Jesus walked with, told his disciples,
look at all these stones. All these stones
will be torn down and, you know, and
destroyed. And the disciples were, were
bewildered. They're like, when is this
going to happen? This is the temple, right?
This is before the, you know, this is
when God lived, you know, in the temple,
right? Or maybe not, but anyway, it's the
temple, big deal. And they go, tell us,
when will, when will this happen? When
will be the, the, this happen? And then
Jesus goes on to describe the end of the
world. He just, well, he just goes on to
say, the sun will be turned to black.
You'll see the sun of men coming in the
clouds. Every new, you know, you know,
there'll be famines and earthquakes in
various places, etc, etc. He goes on to
describe it and he says, you'll be put to
death on behalf of me and, you know, then
the end will come. He then says, I tell
you the truth. This generation will not
pass away until all these things happen.
In another retelling of this story, in
another part, he says, I tell you the
truth. You shall not taste death until
all these things happen. So that's what
it says in almost, in every
translation that I've read of the Bible,
like, it's exact, right? This generation
will not pass away until all these things
happen, until you see the sun of men
returning on the clouds, that you see in
Gregoric. People will not taste death
until they see the sun of men coming to
the cloud. Now, current Christians get
around this by, by thinking maybe the
word generation meant race of people,
like the Jews, or maybe the second death,
you will not taste death until you see
all these things come. Maybe that's
talking about when people die and then
they're resurrected and, you know, that,
that's the true death. It's like a second
death in heaven or something, right?
Right.
But that's not what the text says.
And if you can read the Bible to see
the exact opposite of what it actually
says in plain reading, in every
translation, that, you know, I tell you
the truth, you will taste death and it
will be 2,000 years at least before you
see the sun of men coming on the clouds,
if, okay, well, you translate the exact
opposite. I tell you the truth, this
generation and 10, 20 other generations
will pass away, you know, until, you
know, if you can translate to say the
exact opposite of what it actually says,
like that, that's, that's absolutely
wild to me, right? And that, that was
always a big stumbling block for me.
That's what they were doing then.
That's what, sorry, that's what they're
doing now. And so you're like, okay,
well, how they, how, how these Christian
sects getting these wild ideas?
Well, Christians are still doing it
today. They're still translating the
text to be the exact opposite of what
it says. They're putting themselves
onto the text rather than taking the
text for what it is. They're putting
their own minds, they're putting their
own minds onto it and, and reading it,
reading themselves into the text. That's
why you have these Canites who are
Pythagorean vegetarians who see it that
way. Or you have the, these Valentinians
who think that Zoe is another character
in the Gospel of John. And you're like,
wait, what, another character? Well, yeah,
it does say Zoe. That's the word for
life. You can make that a noun if you
want to. In Greek, there's no capital
letters. It's like, you could make that
a noun if you, I guess, you know. So
there's ways to play with the Greek and
like, and then once you play with the
Greek, then you can sort of translate
it however you want. Especially when
he's translating Greek into English. Now
you have a lot of options. In fact,
yesterday, this is crazy. I head on
Robin Faith Walsh, and she told me
that this is a new discovery in
scholarship. It's that in the Greek for
Paul's epistles, every time where it
says faith in Jesus, it actually might
be saying faith of Jesus, which takes
Jesus down from being the godly type,
and it's his, Jesus' faith in God that
they're, and so, and another thing she
points to is that when they're talking
about the faith of Abraham, it's the
same Greek text, exactly the same. But
for some reason, when it gets to Jesus,
they change it. It's translated as faith
of, or faith in Jesus. So that changed
everything. And there's early
Christians early on, the Ebonites, for
example, and a couple other groups that
didn't think Jesus was God. Yeah, okay,
man, let's get that way. I want to run
through some of these early Christianities
as written about in Lost Christianities
and just get your, we'll hit them like
one at a time, and when we can like do
a deep dive in each one of them. I just
want to touch a few comments first.
Someone, Drunknars Forge, said, look up
the wandering Jew. So this is actually,
this is actually an apologetic that was
found about the fact that those,
those will not taste death until they see
the Son of Man coming in the clouds.
There's this like, the wandering Jew is a
mythical mortal man. That's like,
he's still a Jewish person alive today
who's just like 2,000 years old walking
around like, there's stories about this.
Like people have tried to harmonize this
by coming up with stories like the
wandering Jew. Yeah, there's a story
like this in Islam too. There's like,
there's like, yeah, there's sages that
are like 800 years old or something,
like they're a thousand years old or
something. Oh, wow. Do you know much
about, do you know much about Islam?
Well, not that much. Just, just, you know,
basic stuff, like a little bit. I've read
the Quran actually from cover to cover,
so I do know, I do know what the Quran
says, but I'm not like a scholar in
Islam or anything.
That's, the Quran is really short, it's
very quick read, very quick read, easy.
Yeah, I was gonna, I was gonna, I read the
Quran as well a couple years ago. I
become friends with them, really good
friends of them, Muslim friend, and
she, and you know, I was like, I'm gonna
read, she was going through, she might
have been going through Ramadan or
something, but I was like, I want to read
this. I was blown away by the Quran, to
be honest. I was, I thought some parts
were incredibly beautiful, some parts
were horrific, but, but, but it was, it
was, I was surprised at what, I think I
had a really good translation, but I
was surprised at like how, how much,
how much more peaceful it was than I
thought it was going to be. Like, it's no
more, it's no more barbaric than what
you find in the Bible or anything.
Yeah, like it has its, it has its moments,
but it's like just, yeah, it's exactly
like the Bible, it's like, there's just
some moments where you're like, whoa,
what do you mean, go and kill pagans, but
then like most, it's just like, Allah,
the most merciful, the most great, the
most, most see that. That's like 90% of
the Quran. Allah likes to, Allah likes to
remind people about how merciful he is,
like, every verse starts off along the
most merciful, every verse. Yeah, or like
the, like the, the Christian, like the
Hebrew God, likes to remind people not
to have unleavened bread, or is it, I
can't remember, I read the Old Testament
through, and it was like, I was like, how
many times does he want to mention not
putting yeast in bread? Like, I get, I get
the, I get, I get it, we get it.
Okay, so in Bart Ehrman's Fantastic
Book, Lost Christianities, which I
suggest people go check it out. Yeah, I
had that right behind me actually
somewhere, yep. It's a, it's a fantastic,
it's fantastic book, and he's got courses
on it, on YouTube you can watch, that I
was actually listening to one right
before, as I was on my way to. This is
actually an old book too, this was
written a while ago, but it's, you're
right, it's on point, it is. Well, let me,
like, look at this, like, this lecture
that I was watching, like, it's, it's all,
like, it's like, I think it was on tape,
like. This is like Bart in his prime
right here, like he used to be, he still
is the man, but, but yeah, vintage,
like, this is when he was in his prime
form, like, crushing, crushing lectures,
like, he got things, stuff like that,
you know. Yeah, written like 30 something
books now, but, so he mentions four
sects of Christianity that I had no idea
existed, and I was, well, we got 35
subscribers, guys, thank you so much for
showing up, this is really, not 35
subscribers, 35 viewers, thank you guys for
showing up, that's cool. Yeah, that's,
that's, that's big for us, we've had a
huge influx of, I'm not sure if you know
we've had a huge influx of subscribers
and for those who missed the last, last
episode, this was, let me just turn off
the banner, this, this is what we look
like, one episode, and then this was the
next episode, and then this was the next
episode, and then I went on MythVision
with Derek to promote the panel that we
got coming up, and then that was what we
did, we blew the, blew the goal out of
water, and I'm coming up with a charity
stream now, I think we, I think we're not
going to do six hours, guys, I think we're
going to do longer, I think we're going to
do a long, long stream, and we're going
to be raising money for a charity, I'm
still looking at charities to raise
money more, or causes to raise money for,
and I'm thinking about having like things
like, you know, people can, there's
different charities, people can like vote
on, and I'm bringing on guests, and we
might play some video games, and we might
talk about things, it's going to be
wild, I don't want to say 12 hours, but
my gut feeling is, wouldn't it be cool
to do a 12 hour stream, but anyway,
crazy, so thank you, thank you all the
new subscribers, it's been, it's been
awesome seeing you guys show up, and I
love talking to you guys in the community,
and thank you Dee, Dee's one of my
favorite people, she's always here,
I do.
Okay, so let's go through early
Christianity's, so we got the
Gnostics, the Proto-Orthodox Christianity,
the Marcianites, and the Ibnites that
are written down, who do you want to
talk to first?
Well, I want, the Ibnites is a good
start, because the Ibnites are the
closest thing you're going to get to,
like Judaism, like they're staying
away from all the Platonist, the
middle Platonist ideas that are
completely popular, like that's the
fad of the time period, middle Platonism,
Stoicism, cynicism, those ideas that
come from the Greek world, Greco-Roman,
they're staying, they're trying to stay
away from that, they're not completely
staying away from that, but like the
Ibnites are the closest thing you're
going to get to Torah, Torah,
observant, practicing Jewish people,
who believe that Jesus was the Messiah,
they don't think that Jesus was God,
I think they have, as far as they go,
as they say, he was the Son of God, but
I don't even know if they even say that,
I could be wrong, don't quote me on that,
but I will say this with confidence,
he's not God, he's the Messiah,
so there's, so like they have this like
traditional view of what the Messiah,
before Christianity, if we go to like any
of the Dead Sea Scrolls or anything,
he's supposed to be the guy who comes
and ushers in the Kingdom of Heaven,
and you know, brings Israel glory, and
these are, he's supposed to be-
Like, not in like a spiritual sense,
in like a real world, like in a-
Real sense.
Like, I am a king going to take the,
the, you know, to hold back the Romans to, you know-
Like a new Moses, Abraham character,
he's not God, he's a human being,
but he's got God on his side, basically,
like he can just do,
he can just ask God to do things for him,
type of thing.
That's what the Ebeonites think of Jesus,
and there are a lot of scholars that think
James is leading this group, who knows,
it sounds reasonable-
Like James, the brother of Jesus-
James is called the brother, yeah,
because, for whatever reason-
Because we know, we do know from some of the
sources that James was leading the
Jerusalem Church, and the Jerusalem
Church was most likely closest thing
you're going to get to being, like,
you know, the Ebeonites are something
along those lines.
Like, we don't know that for sure,
it's not like we're like,
hey, we're Ebeonites and we're here,
you don't have a text that says that for
sure, for certain, but it's probably,
it could be true, that could be the case.
Like, I would speculate on that myself,
you know, Ebeonites, James, Jerusalem,
that's what's happening there.
And so, they're called heretics,
because they don't believe Jesus is
part of this trinity, that got me.
That's, and obviously, this is way later.
And way later, they're deciding this,
and Theodosius decides that Ebeonites,
Manachians, and Mandians, all those extra
groups that are still around in his time,
that they either convert to the true faith,
or kill, or hunt them out and kill them.
Like, they were like, seriously a threat to him.
So, what, what scriptures did the Ebeonites,
like, what, what scriptures did the Ebeonites
use?
Did they, I heard that they didn't utilize Paul.
They rejected Paul as,
Yeah, rejected Paul.
Paul's the, Paul's going all, Paul's the Greek.
He's all these,
Middle Platonists, Asia Minor, Turkey,
Egyptian, they all love Paul.
But the Ebeonites are like, they're sticking to the Bible,
sticking to the Old Testament.
I don't know if that, as far as New Testament,
Gospel stuff, I'm not sure, I'm guessing Matthew,
but I'm not, like I said, I'm guessing.
Someone in the comments might know that one.
Good question, but yeah.
So, look, I said we should go through these groups,
but I think first, let's, let's rewind a little bit.
So, we, a lot of people might be wondering,
I'm trying to make this very, very,
very beginner friendly for an audience,
but a lot of people might be wondering,
why didn't they just read the Bible?
Well, back then, it was my Bible.
Exactly.
Yeah.
So, when was the Bible put together?
You have to realize this, in this time period,
you have scrolls, individual scrolls,
floating around on their own.
So, Matthew was by itself, Luke was by itself,
Mark was by itself, you know, Paul's epistles
are floating around by themselves.
They weren't called Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John either.
They were names attributed to them in the 14th century, I think,
or they were just anonymous texts.
No, not 14, that's a fourth.
Oh, fourth.
But also, everyone, make sure you go and fact check
everything we're saying, because this would be a good
jumping off point to go research where we go.
Yeah, no, that's true, that's true, that's true.
Yeah, because I'm going to make some mistakes here tonight,
for sure.
Yeah.
Neither of us are doctors or...
Yeah, I'm not the authority on this stuff, but I'm very much
into it, as far as like, this is one of my areas that I'm
talking about a lot on my channel.
But no, that's a good point, because these texts are
floating around by themselves, and there's different
communities have access to certain texts.
So, they're reading whatever they have.
And so, yeah, that's that.
I mean, you have...
You even have some groups that are, like,
peripatetic, which is like Aristotelian, or Platonist,
and they're actually reading the old Plato and stuff.
Carpocratians are one of my favorite groups.
This is a group of Christians that comes out of
Alexandria, Egypt, by a guy named Harpocrates.
And he has a son named Epiphanes.
This kid dies at 18 years old.
They deify him on the island of Cthulonia in Greece.
So, we have Christians not only worshiping Jesus as a God,
or someone to worship, and I'll get to that in a second,
hold that thought, but they deify this kid named Epiphanes.
He becomes a God too.
He has his own temple in a library on this island.
But not only that.
So, this is what they believe.
They believe in this thing called the idea that you attain salvation,
not through faith in Jesus, but through attaining esoteric gnosis.
Gaining gnosis is what gives you salvation.
And then, once you attain the highest form of gnosis,
which is apotheosis, you have exited the realm of reincarnation.
So, everyone's being reincarnated.
We're all flawed.
You keep reincarnating until you get it right,
until you become a sage like Jesus, and then you get deified.
And then, you're worthy of worship,
because if you imitate someone who's been deified,
you can be like them, and you can also become deified.
So, they had statues.
These are the first Christians that we know about that had statues
that worshiped, like they had idol statues, like the Greeks would do.
They had a statue of Jesus next to Pythagoras and Plato.
And they were worshiping all three of them at the same time.
So, Jesus wasn't...
So, these are called daemons.
They're not like God.
They're not like Zeus, but they're like people who started off human,
who attain godhood through gnosis.
So, you have them.
They're worshiping Plato, they're worshiping Pythagoras,
they're worshiping Jesus, and they're worshiping Epiphanes.
I believe Aristotle had a statue too.
But this is the whole Greek side of Christianity.
That we forgot about.
And they didn't care about the Old Testament.
They're not like, what is it cares about?
That's just another...
They're looking at the ancient world as every text is something
we can look at and use from.
You can see there's a group of Christians that have a text called
the Epistle of Zostrianos.
They're saying Zostrianos.
And Zostrianos is the grandfather of Zoroaster.
So, now we got Zoroastrians coming in the mix.
It's a syncretic time for religion.
It's like it's so wild.
So, as I take another sip of this beautiful wine,
when was the Bible canonized?
So, it looks like with a quick Google, it was the 5th century.
5th century, yeah.
Yeah, that's right.
Yeah, 5th century.
Yeah.
And I was talking to Jeremiah Kugin about this.
Oh, this is 363, sorry.
Yeah, okay.
I was talking to Jeremiah Kugin about this and he said,
by the time this comes around where they're canonizing,
it wasn't like they sat there in the heat of the moment and decided on the spot.
By the 4th century, it was already becoming...
There was already a network of bishops and Christians that had financial resources.
There were above all these other groups that sort of had this elite status.
And they were the ones who sort of veered it into this, what we call orthodox.
And then it happened slowly.
It didn't just happen.
Yeah.
It wasn't like one day they sat there and they didn't know,
should we pick Judas or should we pick this one?
Should we pick...
Like they were already...
Like it was a slow process that led up to that moment.
That's what Kugin told me just the other day.
Okay, so we have early Christianity.
And so between when Jesus died in 33 CE, our first writings we have,
I believe, are Paul, the possible Paul.
And then 30 to 70 years later, we start seeing the Gospels.
We don't have fragments of those Gospels until...
I think the first full Gospel of Mark is 200 CE.
Like it's like many years...
No, it's later than that.
It's way later than that.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
The first four.
So you said...
The first four.
The first four.
Four.
Yeah, the fourth one is like...
She's that earliest Gospel.
325, I want to say.
Oh, wow.
Okay.
The first four.
So then we have fragments that are like...
I think the oldest fragment of a Bible we have is third century.
Oh, wow.
That's how late any fragments are.
We have...
That's what I'm going to...
Think about that for a second.
No fragments of the Bible shows up.
Oh, well, I shouldn't say shows up.
Our preserve that we still have that we can touch.
Third century, I think, is the oldest.
Really?
Yeah.
I would be shocked if you could pull someone from the second century.
If anyone can do that, I'd be shocked.
I have never heard of that yet.
Because there was a guy, and there was a guy...
I forgot, Daniel Wallace, who thought he had...
And the Christians were freaking out over this.
They finally thought they had a second century text.
And it turned out to be a...
It was a fraud.
It wasn't real.
Oh, okay.
From pretty sure, I'm like 90% sure,
the oldest fragment we have is from the third century.
Okay.
I did this video on my channel at Post Faith.
And it was a video that I'd spent like three and a half months researching.
I got some...
I got Joshua Bowen, a seriologist,
who knows more about the Old Testament, he said,
but he did check it over.
And I used the reference, some two Christian textbooks,
like two of the major Christian textbooks to come up with this.
But so I talk about how there's 45,000 denominations of Christianity,
and how do we get them all.
But where I...
What I do, I drop like a...
What we have...
Okay, here we go.
So I talk a little bit about it.
So this is what I wrote...
This is what I had down.
I don't know if you can see that.
So...
Oh, yeah.
This is...
256 is the...
That durier...
Of the earlier...
Yeah.
So it is there.
Yeah.
So...
Okay, cool.
So yeah, that's a good...
I just want to get that out there.
Yeah, sweet.
So this looks like...
So this is what I had written down.
So we got like Jesus crucified, Mark written in 65.
I gave very conservative numbers, by the way.
John written down the earliest section,
which was P52, which is 125 CE,
but it's only like a credit card size thing.
And then we go to the earliest copy of Mark.
Your write was 375, I would say.
And we didn't even get a list of the completely new...
That John one is the one I think I just looked up,
the 256...
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
Ah, okay.
All right.
But if you go...
If I go back just a little bit...
Sorry.
Yeah.
So you see here, even with the textbooks that I used here,
you've got like 300 years.
Yeah.
Like before the Bible is like actually...
Before we even have a complete copy of what we're talking about.
Like a surviving copy.
But we know that they were written earlier,
but anyway, that's to be on point.
So we have...
So the Bible is canonized.
So I'm just trying to formalize this a little bit.
And then we have the Ebonites,
the Gnostics, Protorothodox, and Marcianites.
So the Ebonites, what did they accept
and what did they accept from the Bible that we have today?
I'm pretty...
99% share of the Hebrews was like their central epistle text.
Hebrews.
Okay.
And outside of that, obviously, no Paul.
And I think Matthew is their go-to gospel.
But I'm not really sure if we even know that or not.
If we even...
Yeah.
I don't think we have any text that says what they had
or what they were into.
But this is for sure though.
They were Old Testament observant people.
They were into the Old Testament.
They were into Isaiah, Torah, all that stuff.
Whereas some of these other Christians weren't.
They were strict vegetarians, is what I've heard.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And they wore...
Yeah.
They had like a dress code and all that stuff.
Okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
And the Ebonites are kind of seen as like the Jewish Christians
and like some sects call them the Jewish Christians, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's the best way to describe them.
Awesome.
Whereas on the flip side of that,
if you want to go complete opposite to what we see with them,
there's a group called the Nasin's.
That word Nas means snake in Hebrew.
And they have a leader.
They have a leader called the Nasin preacher.
They are in Turkey, which was Phrygia back then.
And they thought that all these old gods,
Cyrus, Addis, Dionysus, Orpheus,
even he was not even a god, he was a person,
they thought that the Christ was living through them.
And that what they were really trying to find
when they were worshiping his older gods like Osiris in Egypt
and Addis in Phrygia,
they were really looking for the Christ.
And he's the real one.
But they have a hymn to Addis.
This is from the Nasin preacher.
We don't know his real name.
We just know him as the Nasin preacher.
He was super famous in his time.
Everyone loved him.
He was super popular.
And he had a hymn.
It was a Homeric hymn to Addis.
And he just crossed off the name Addis
and put Jesus on it basically.
So they were singing this hymn to Addis
and they were applying it to Jesus.
So these, instead of having the Old Testament
like the Ebe and Isis,
they're looking at Greek mythology stuff
or Egyptian mythology.
And they're applying that to Jesus.
I'll fix this in a second.
So yeah.
So there's a lot going on there.
There are so different from each other.
Wow.
So it's so wild.
It's just so wild to me.
So we have the Ebe and Isis.
Then the next sect that we have
is the Gnostics that are written down.
The Gnostics were probably the most popular.
Is that right?
Like of the...
That's the thing.
The Gnostics, when we say Gnostic,
we're probably talking about Sethians and Valentinians.
Yeah.
Or even Carpal creations
because the term Gnostics,
nobody actually called themselves Gnostics, by the way.
So I'll go through what people mean when they say that.
So I talked with Sethians already
and they're taxes that Apocrypha and John.
Valentinians, same thing.
These are people who don't think that
faith comes from or salvation comes from faith.
It comes through Gnosis,
which is where you get Gnostic.
It means knowledge.
Carpal creations, I just mentioned them.
They believe that when you attain the highest Gnosis,
you escape the...
Hold on one second.
Let me just...
When you escape through the reincarnation cycle
and you come through and you become a God.
So everybody's journey is to becoming a God.
Just like the knowledge.
That's why the Tree of Knowledge is so big for them.
You want to bite that knowledge
because you want to get your...
Start aiming towards being a God.
The serpent never lied, they said.
The Gnossians, same thing.
That's why they're called the Gnossians.
They're serpent.
They said that Christ was the serpent on the cross
because in the Old Testament,
Moses holds up the serpent on a stick when they're in the desert.
And he saves them from the snake bites.
He said, if you look at the snake, you'll be saved.
Well, in the same sense,
the knowledge of Jesus on the cross will save you as well.
But you also...
There was this idea that Christ is the serpent.
So be like Jesus and you'll attain Gnosis.
So you have that.
And then you have this group called the Basilidians.
And this is probably your prototypical Gnostic.
Like if anyone was going to call themselves Gnostic,
it would be these guys.
And they have a teacher called Basilidians.
Early second century Alexandria teacher.
And so he had this wild, wild idea of...
So it was called the Great Archon.
And the universe started off with nothing.
And then it's spring forth from the universe
was this Great Archon.
And his name is Abraxis.
The logo of my channel, there he is right there.
Go up, go up one more to the right, to the right.
That one, that's Abraxis.
The logo of my channel, Gnostic and Formant, is Abraxis.
So this guy, Basilides said that Abraxis is the Great Archon.
Now, what does he mean by this?
What is this?
What's going on here?
Abraxis is he's like reality incarnate.
So he has a Dramatria in Greek of 365.
365 days of the year for a solo calendar.
He has seven letters in his name, which is the seven days of the week.
If you multiply the consonants and vowels, you get 12,
which is the months of the year.
So he's a time God, but he also has the head of a bird,
body of a man, legs of a serpent,
which means he's air, land, and water.
So he's the elements and he's the time.
He's everything, he's the all.
But so, and the idea was that this Great Archon
believed or decided that he realized,
he got knowledge that he was not the highest God,
that there was gods above him.
So he taught, teaches this knowledge to his son,
who's at the right hand.
And then Jesus, he, and so in this,
and they, the Basilladians believed that Jesus,
the same story that he lived in Jerusalem or lived in
Azeroth, got killed in Jerusalem.
But they thought that in Jesus's lifetime,
he wasn't teaching anything that you were hearing in the gospels.
He was teaching about this Great Archon.
So they have a different belief on Jesus,
that Jesus taught about the Great Archon,
and it's the knowledge of ascension to ascend
and to realize that there is a power higher than you.
You have to climb this ladder, basically.
It's really weird and confusing.
But that's, that's probably the best I'm going to be able
to describe it.
It probably made no sense to anybody,
but it doesn't make sense.
No, it's really.
So it's such, so rich.
And so I just want to point out, again,
reiterate, these are Christians.
Okay.
Like a lot of people, like it's,
it's easier to come up, comment on these.
It's like, weird.
Basilica said he was a student of John.
He said he was a direct,
he claimed to be a direct student of John.
So he's not like, he's not claiming to be some other thing.
He's saying, yeah, you have one of those,
one of those disciples, that one, John, that's my teacher.
You know, and Marcyon claimed to be a student of Paul.
And so all these, all these people that I'm,
all these people that I'm naming
are claiming to be like from the line of teaching
that goes back to Jesus.
They're not, they're not outside of like,
they're not outsiders.
That's really important.
So yeah, it's super important.
So I just looked up, I remember when I did the course,
Lost Christianity's, I was given a PDF
that like summarized each of the groups really well.
And we're obviously talking about,
about the Basilica,
Basilica deans, sorry, Basilica deans,
who were, who were Gnostic,
but there are other sects of Gnosticism, obviously.
But I've written down some points that I'll just,
I'll just read out and we can kind of comment,
comment on them as we go.
But so Gnostic is dualistic in that Gnostic religions were
essentially dualistic, understanding all reality
to be divided into two fundamental components of matter,
which was evil.
So physical bodies were evil and spirit, which was good.
The true God, the ultimate divine being was complete spirit,
and therefore was not only unknown to humans,
who acquired knowledge through their material sense,
but unknowable.
The divine realm, a series of myths,
different myths for different Gnostic religions,
explains how one spiritual God propagated
other spiritual deities, known as Aeons.
Is that right?
Aeons, yeah.
Which take Aeons,
which ages in Greek ages.
Oh, okay.
Which taken together constituted the divine realm,
the pluroma, meaning fullness.
A few more, the full, the full and creation,
moreover, these myths explain how one of the Aeons
disastrous conceptions of an imperfect divine being took place.
This imperfect divine being came to be removed
from the pluroma, I'm so bad at reading,
pluroma, I've got dyslexia, I swear.
And as an evil act created the material world.
So this material world that we live in today
is like an evil place created by an evil deity.
That's one thing that is like a thread,
a common thread among all these so-called Gnostic groups.
Is that the material world is something to be against.
It's evil.
You know, flesh is evil.
That's all, that's common thread throughout.
Even not even just the Gnostics,
the Christians think this way too.
The Christians are waiting for heaven.
They're not waiting to, like they're,
it's sort of a common, that's like, yeah,
that's the common thread.
Yeah, the current Christians,
it's kind of like a watered down version of this.
Like, so they talk about Gnosis and talk about a divine spark.
The resident evil being captured the mother deity
and imprisoned her here in human bodies.
Humans have sparks of divine within them.
The Gnostic system is designed to show
how they can be liberated.
So I heard Bart Ehrman say that it was seen as like,
almost a bad thing to bring children into this world.
Because you're creating, you're creating material matter
that then divine sparks would have to go into, right?
To animals.
It was actually common in the, in Phrygia,
which is where these Gnosis were,
which makes sense that they're following Addis,
because in the Addis cult, they had a,
what was called the day of blood.
It was in March, it was on March 25th.
They're right, it's kind of weird.
Right around Easter time, they have a day of blood.
Three days after the day of blood, it's a day of washing.
So you have this three day thing happening.
On the day of blood, they would castrate themselves.
They would cut off their testicles and throw it away.
And it was like devoting themselves to the God.
But you had this idea in Christianity where
you're going to, you want to be celibate.
You want to, you're not, you're, you're,
you're waiting for the end of the world.
Like there's no reason to have children.
Like devote yourself to God now.
And that's it.
Like forget about the world.
The world is evil.
And like you, you know what I mean?
And you see this mentality today,
which is why it's very dangerous for like climate change,
for Christianity, because they don't care about the future.
They don't care about the planet.
They're like, they're waiting for any day now.
The world's going to any day now, tomorrow.
So it's not just the nostics that thought this way.
You know, I used to make this really poor joke when I was,
but around, it was when I was a youth pastor,
or when I was nearly a youth pastor,
I used to make this joke about climate change, right?
And I used to say, because I didn't think too much about it,
but obviously as a Christian,
I guess I was more influenced to be
not really caring about climate change,
even though I don't know why that's the case.
It just seems to be part of the zeitgeist,
I guess, Christianity, but the,
so I would say that, have you ever,
I've said to everyone, I'm like,
have you ever cleaned up your room?
And they're like, this is a joke, by the way.
Have you ever cleaned up your room?
And they're like, yeah.
And like, have you ever cleaned up your room
when it's been really, really messy,
and it feels really good after that?
And you're like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And it's like, yeah.
And then I'm like, okay, so, and I say,
so it feels better when it's been really messy
and you clean up, right?
Yeah.
And then I'm like, and God can do anything,
like just like that,
to clean a messy room or to clean like an easy room,
it's much easier.
And he's like, yeah, it's the same level of skill.
And he's like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And it's like, okay, so we should make this,
this world as messy as possible,
because then when God cleans it all up
and tends to do a new earth,
he'll feel so much more satisfied.
That was like a, the joke,
like, let's just pollute this earth.
God's going to love it, right?
Like that, it was a joke.
Yeah, it was stupid.
Yeah.
It was stupid, but it just showed the lack of,
the lack of careful for the environment for me anyway.
Like I didn't, I didn't take climate,
climate change to be serious or global.
Yeah, there's no reason to care about climate change.
Yeah.
This, this world is a,
those two things conflict with each other completely.
Either you're ready for the end of the world,
or you're, or you're not a Christian and then you care.
And in that case, you do care about climate change.
Shout out to my little brother,
who was going to go to university and I said to him,
Lenny, what good is a university degree in heaven?
Right.
And then he didn't go.
And now like 10 years later,
he's got 10 years later,
he's finished his university degree and we laugh about,
and I've gone to university as well
and we both laugh about how stupid I was.
There's actually, actually my church counselor at the time,
I had a church counselor and she said to me,
that she didn't go to university to get a psychology degree
because she was taught by the church,
don't go to university because Jesus is coming back
in the next few years.
And she said, don't believe it.
You know, like she's going to university
because it was in the seventies that she was told this, right?
So, and she was like now at that age,
thousands of end times fail predictions by,
by high up, high level Christians
that were famous in their time period,
starting all the way in the first century until now.
There's a list where it just, it's crazy.
And they're still doing it.
You still have like your every, your, your,
whoever your famous Baptist Christian on YouTube today is
saying, he's probably has a date somewhere
that he's talking about 2025.
Don't worry, it's coming.
That day's going to come around
and then that guy will change it to something else.
He'll figure out a way to make another one.
But that, that keeps happening.
Same of the, I'm, I'm in talks at the moment
having some drives witnesses on.
So that's going to be a wild ride
because they predicted,
officially predicted the end of the world,
like 10 times now or more maybe.
So just to quickly finish this off,
divine sparks came through acquiring the true knowledge
where the spark came from,
how it can be, how it came to be here and how to escape.
So they didn't believe Jesus was,
they didn't believe you got saved through what Jesus did.
They believe that you got saved through gaining the knowledge.
That's right. Yeah.
That's, that's, that's the main thing
and makes a difference between a Gnostic and a, you know,
today's proto Orthodox Christian.
Knowledge cannot come by natural means.
However, it can come only from above
if a divine aeon comes down to impart the knowledge.
Christ in the Christian Gnostic systems
and types of human.
This is the part that blew me away.
The knowledge is secret.
It is not for everyone because not everyone has a spark.
Some people were pure animals.
Others had had some possibility of an afterlife
through faith and good works.
So normal Christians only some had the possibility
of a fantastic afterlife in return,
in the return of the realm of God,
whence they had come, the Gnostics.
So some humans which we've seen without divine sparks,
they were just seen as evil.
Yeah.
Or not evil. Sorry.
They were just seen as, well, I guess they were
because they were made of matter.
They were just seen as like animals.
They saw you as an animal.
Like you were no different from the deer that just ran by.
It's wild.
Crazy.
And I'm so glad that this didn't,
can you imagine the racism that would be around
if this like stuck around?
Like if this was like a main stream, it would be horrible.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And because of the body was a prison to be escaped,
Gnostics adopted a particular ascetic approach to life.
So they didn't believe in drinking fine wine, I imagine.
No, they were very cynical too.
They were cynics.
They lived outside in the elements.
Some of them lived in the desert.
Some of them lived on.
There was a Christian who lived on a pillar for,
I forgot how long, for years, on top of a, like a pillar,
like, you know, like the Roman columns,
he climbed on top of one and lived on it
and had people bring him food and water.
To know what he's called.
I wonder if there's any markings on it.
Yeah, Christian, look up Christian that lived on pillar.
And it'll come right up.
That's amazing.
It's years too.
It's a long time.
What's amazing is this, what is this image?
This is so.
That's him.
There's a big serpent around him too.
That's funny.
So his name is Sinyan.
And he lived on a, on a, on a, what is it?
How long does it say it says?
Uh, for 37 years?
37.
No, that's what, that's probably true.
Because it was such a, he was so famous.
People came from all over the Roman Empire to see him.
Is this, this can't be the actual tower, can it?
It might be.
I don't know.
I'm not, I'm not really sure.
It could be.
Look at, we'll see what it says.
See, there he is.
He's sitting on his, these, this is Christianity guys.
This is Christianity.
Like I'm just trying to highlight.
This is what I do on my channel.
I try to highlight the early Christians
were into some crazy ideas.
And it just kind of calmed down.
That's all that really happened.
They just kind of calmed down.
Because you want to know why?
Because the Roman Empire corporatized it.
The first corporation is the Catholic Church.
It operates exactly like a corporation does.
Because you know how a corporate, if you, like,
like you become a corporate, uh,
you become a franchiser of a McDonald's,
you have to do what McDonald's wants you to do.
And you're, you can't, this is how the Catholic Church is.
Like it's a corporation.
Yeah.
It corporatized it.
Wow.
But like before that, before that corporatization happened,
there was wild ideas floating around.
And these are people that believe in Jesus,
that were Christians, just like you would call your,
you know, uh, uh, inspiring philosophy a Christian.
Like they're, these are just Christians.
They're not like, hey, I'm a Gnostic.
Like that's why I try to remember that point of,
like, because, because the Gnostic thing is like,
it makes them a different religion.
They're not there.
They're the same, it's the same religion.
Just different, different views on the religion.
You know what I mean?
Just like a Baptist and an evangelical are two different,
but they're still Christians.
Like it's, it's, it's just like that.
Michael Jones has been inspiring philosophy as a friend of mine.
And he'd been, been on the channel before he's a great guy.
Yeah, I've heard about my channel since he's cool.
Yeah, he's cool.
I think, um, I'd be interested to get his,
um, perspective on this conversation.
Because what I, what I like, but what I think,
Oh, what did he say?
I, I, I couldn't get him to get like, I'm like,
so what makes you think that the orthodoxy is the true way
that Jesus wanted everyone to, what makes you believe that?
Like what?
And he just was like, well, I don't really know.
I just kind of, like, he's like, if, if God's in control,
he's going to make sure the right one wins out.
They'll go, sure.
Okay.
Really?
Yeah.
He says something, he says something along,
I'm paraphrasing something along the lines.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The right one would always win out,
no matter what.
I'm like, okay.
Yeah.
Because like, you know, you don't know,
for all you know, Jesus could have been the guy on the pillar.
He could have been like, that could have been the type
of Christian he wanted you to be.
You know?
Yeah.
Everyone make sure you go subscribe to Gnostic Informant.
Um, the, the, um, and listen to this conversation.
Um, I'm sure it'll be, it would be awesome to.
Yeah.
We're talking about Saturnalia and because he made a video
that Saturnalia has nothing to do with Christianity.
I'm like, I don't know about that.
But I will, I did say, I agree with him on some,
because some people have their anti-Christian bias
that want to say Saturnalia or Christian copied Saturnalia.
Christmas copies, it's not true.
Christmases didn't copy Saturnalia,
but they do, they do borrow some elements from the,
the tradition of the holidays of like decking your house
with wreaths and giving presents.
And I just wanted to, I wanted to like, you know,
talk to him about that.
And he was like, yeah, we had a good conversation about that.
He's cool.
He's a cool guy.
Like I mentioned before too that he,
he's a Christian apologist and every time he comes on,
we're drinking scotch together.
And then there's a satanist that wants to come on,
he wants to drink tea and bake me pumpkin scones.
So it's just this, I love this dichotomy
that I've created on deep drinks where
the Christian apologist is like straight scotch
and the satanist is like tea and scones.
It's so good.
But so, so make sure you go subscribe
to NOSC and format links in the description.
And also I just wanted to quickly shout out the channel,
my channel, it's, it's, we're doing some really cool stuff.
I'm just, I'm, I've got some more people
I haven't announced coming on soon.
Dr. Jennifer Byrd talking about
holy gender sexuality and marriage.
And cause she's going to come on before we do the panel on slavery
and the panel, the little thing that you see at the bottom,
make sure you subscribe and share major panel coming up.
That is this panel, which is a panel on slavery.
It'll be the go to resource for any conversation to do with slavery.
We have five Bible scholars, all with expertise in this area,
who are going to be talking about what was Bible slavery,
how did it look different from slavery today?
How does it, how did it, what did the Hebrew version
of slavery look like?
What was early Christianity's response?
Second, taking temple Judaism.
And we will, we will be addressing directly the apologetics found
within the works of Jordan Peterson, Frank Turrick,
William Lane Craig, GotQuestions.com, Mike Winger, John McCray,
Ellen Parr, Paul Copen, Paul Douglas, Paul Wilson, sorry,
Captain Christianity, John Walla Wallis,
answers Genesis and the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary.
We will be addressing them directly.
And I want everyone to make sure you send out this video
and you tag any of these people in there,
because I want them to know that the Bible scholars are coming.
And we're going to be addressing the apologetics
that they often use to make it seem like slavery was
the fun little tickly type of slavery where, you know,
you get tickled to bed.
And yeah, you should see the way that Paul Copen talks about,
just to do a random aside here, I'm sorry,
I get very passionate about this.
Remember, these are human beings, people,
that Paul Copen describes getting,
like having your slaves be passed on as inheritance to your children.
The way he describes it in his book, okay, is a safe haven, okay.
So he's talking about someone owning a slave as property, right,
and then passing on that slave as inheritance.
Now, after the slave has paid off his debt,
he can choose to leave in this instance,
not in all instances, but in this instance.
However, if he wants to bring his family with him,
that has been that he's gotten, you know, his wife and kids,
he has to, he can't, he can't take his,
those slaves are stuck there with the slave master forever.
And he can choose to stay with them, but they have to,
but then as a result, he has to become a slave to the master for life, right.
This is, you can't retract this.
And the way they determine this is they drive in all through the ear,
and they're like, like, like a cattle gets tagged in a yard.
And then now that slave is the property of the slave for life
and can be passed on to that slave's children as inheritance.
Okay. This isn't the Bible, right.
This is the way Paul Copen describes this.
Kidnapping slaves was also prohibited.
So serving with Israel households was to be a safe haven for any foreigners.
It was not to be used as an impressive setting,
but offered economic and social stability.
I'm doing this for every part of highlighted.
Fourth was seeing that the Hebrew servant in Exodus 21 too,
could well have been an outside who came to the resident alien
and to be released in the seventh year,
presumably to go back to these country of origin.
However, he could make the arrangement permanent
if he loved his master slash employer
and wanted to stay under his care,
given the security and provision of the room
and bored the landless aliens.
This arrangement could apparently be extended into the next generation.
This set up wasn't to be permanent
unless the servants chose to stay with the master.
Perhaps many people would be reasonably happy to settle,
settle to settle for being long-term or lifelong servants.
Servants do count as part of the family.
Once one can even imagine people who stared off,
sorry, who started off as debt servants,
volunteering to become permanent servants
because they love love the master and his household.
That is how it's described by Paul Copen in his book,
Is God a Moral Monster?
Absolutely disgusting in my opinion.
It's literally glipping up to what apology means,
like apologists apologizing for how bad this is.
Because that's not what apologetics originally meant,
but it's ironic how that word becomes an actual apology now for something.
You're actually apologizing for how bad it is.
Yeah, so we're going to have five Bible schools
and we're going to be systematically going through exactly what this is.
That is an all-star cast, dude.
That is, that's better than I've ever done my entire channel.
Yeah, the only way I pull this off is through Dr. Josh, who's just amazing.
So I'm going to be constantly tweeting this out
until I'm blocked by these people.
I want to make sure that everyone knows
that we're going to be addressing their arguments
and that we're going to be giving a consensus
and historically accurate view of slavery
in the Old Testament and the New Testament
and how that impacted the world.
Just to wrap this up, there are a lot of people
in the slavery of the Americas and Australians in Europe and stuff
who said, well, we have to be able to beat our slaves.
We have to be able to beat them
because the Bible says you can beat your slave.
As long as they don't die within a few days.
Yeah, just don't kill them.
Yeah, just don't kill them.
You have to be able to beat your slave
because what else do they have?
You couldn't take away their payment because they weren't paid.
You couldn't take away their food because you needed to feed them.
So you have to be able to beat them.
And these were the arguments that were given for the slave trade
and it's directly pulled from the Bible.
It's a horrible thing to think about.
And I'm glad that most Christians would draw that.
That's wild.
So everyone make sure to subscribe, get notified.
I am like, if you've got a wedding,
postpone the wedding to come to this live event.
If you've got to do whatever you can do to come to this event
and we're going to be really going deep into this.
Even though it's not just a panel on slavery.
It's like, who cares?
But it's like, no.
That's an important discussion to have.
There are 50 million slaves to that.
If there wasn't Christians,
there wasn't mainstream popular Christians
trying to apologize for this stuff.
And it wouldn't be that I wouldn't say it would be a big deal.
But it is.
Like we have Christians who are popular,
who are teaching young kids growing up in the church
that this was okay, guys.
It was all normal.
God had it in control.
So yeah, Owen's doing good work.
Owen's doing great work.
He's a great guy.
Okay.
So moving on to, so we've gone through the Ebonites.
We've touched on the Gnostics.
What about the proto-Orthodox?
Did the proto-Orthodox, is that just what we see today?
Or does they have some different beliefs?
So they develop over time?
Yeah.
No, what we call proto-Orthodox would just be like
Justin Martyr and Irenaeus, Hippolytus.
They don't call themselves proto-Orthodox, obviously.
They don't know they're going to be the Orthodox.
They don't know.
They're not reading the future.
But because it's hindsight 2020,
because we're looking back and saying
Justin Martyr's ideas line up with the later church.
Therefore, he was the proto-Orthodox.
I personally don't like that phrase,
because it's implying that certain Christians had it right.
Other Christians didn't.
It's like Justin Martyr,
Justin Martyr is the guy who said that we're worshiping Jesus
the same way you worship Jupiter or Hermes or Mercury.
Or like, don't pick on us.
We're just going to report to the Christians.
His ideas become, he becomes a saint,
and obviously he becomes proto-Orthodox.
But at the time, they weren't calling themselves Orthodox.
They were just Christians like everyone else.
He had his own ideas.
Other Christians had their own ideas.
It just happens to be that the elitist Christians
that had the bishops and the churches and the Ecclesia
and the network of funding coming from the Roman Empire,
and they had the power.
So they become the Orthodoxy.
And that's just how it is.
It could have turned out any other way.
It just happens to be literally like a coin flipping.
It doesn't really matter.
Hindsight is what we're looking back now,
and deciding who was Orthodox,
based off what the church decided.
Yeah, so there wasn't like,
there wasn't like, we are the proto-Orthodox,
and they have like their own special exam.
No one ever said proto-Orthodox,
because they don't even know there's a church coming.
They think the church is already here.
They think all Christians are part of the church
in that time period.
You know what I mean?
So they're not like distancing themselves
from other Christians.
They might disagree with their ideas,
but they're all like Valentinas is the prime example
of a heretic who's called a Gnostic now,
but was so famous and popular
that he was like,
second or third most powerful Christian
in the Roman Empire in his time.
And he was like the authority of Christianity.
During his time period,
almost became Bishop of Rome.
So he could have easily,
he could have easily been the Orthodox guy,
but now he's a heretic,
now he's a Gnostic because we said so.
So is Irenaeus, you mentioned Irenaeus,
was that right?
Yeah.
Was he the one that,
when he was imprisoned,
he was getting put to death and fed to the lions?
Was that the one that was gonna get fed to the lions by Rome?
Yeah, I think that could be the guy.
I'm not 100% sure.
Because they're all martyrs.
And we don't know for sure that all these stories,
all these later renditions of these martyrdoms
get told about any Christian.
And like, yeah, it could have happened.
But it also was like a legendary thing to be a martyr.
And everyone's,
when you're telling a story,
a lot of person who lived 100 years ago,
it's quite common that there's a legend,
you're gonna insert some legends into that story.
That's just how the ancient myth was.
So a lot of these martyrs are like,
maybe it happened, maybe it didn't.
Peter?
Well, that's,
I'm glad that you brought that up because
I actually have Dr. Kyle Smith coming on,
who's been a guest panel,
guest blogger on Bart Eman's blog.
He's recently written this book,
Cult of the Dead,
A Brief History of Christianity,
which goes into all,
how Christianity is a cult of the dead.
It's a cult of,
not in a,
not in a,
not in a bad way or a negative way,
but it's about,
martyrs are the ones,
people who died for their faith
are the ones who essentially set up Christianity.
And that was kind of the call to
Christians is to,
to lay down your line from half of the cross.
Yeah.
The greatest thing you can do as a Christian
is lay down your life for the,
the,
the, you know, for the,
for the, for Christ or,
you know?
Yeah.
So yeah.
He's,
sense it's like a death cult in a way.
He,
I, I, I emailed him
and he just replied,
I hope you like Tequila.
So it's gonna,
Oh, you know what you said,
you were asking about Irenaeus.
I think it's Justin Marder
who gets freedom.
Oh, it's Justin Marder.
Justin Marder, that's right.
And those two commonly get mixed,
get mixed up with each other
because they're both,
they both write about similar subjects.
They're both writing about
heresies and
they're both like
apologists and defending,
like dueling,
dueling with pagans of the time period,
like Calces, for example.
And so yeah, they're both,
they get,
those two get mixed up a lot.
There's,
he said something,
he says something that just blew me away,
but I bought his,
his teachings in a book form
because it,
and that's why I turned off the camera
just a second ago.
I was trying to look for it.
I picked up Marcus Aurelius
meditations instead
because I thought it was there,
but it's not.
But,
but he said something that was so
incredible to me.
Was it the Jupiter?
He said,
no, he said,
it's beautiful,
it's beautiful in,
in a sick way.
But he said,
he was getting,
he was getting taken to Rome to be fed,
fed to the lions in like the,
as a form of like punishment,
but also like,
as a,
as a show for everyone.
And he got,
he wrote to the church of,
I think Rome and he said,
do not try and stop it,
to them.
And he said,
and also do not take my body.
Let me be food to the lions,
essentially.
It's been a while since I've read it.
I was trying to find the quite,
I can't find it.
And he said,
then he said,
only then will I become a true
disciple of Jesus Christ.
And I was like,
whoa,
I was like,
that blows my mind.
That,
that level of faith,
you can't admire that level of like,
you know,
you probably had no other options.
It's wild to say something like that.
There's a gospel of Andrew.
It's called the gospel of Andrew.
And Andrew is like the prime example
of how to be a martyr.
Because Andrew,
he gets put on a cross.
And they're like,
they offered to take him down
and let him live.
And he says,
no,
he says,
yeah,
this is the highest thing I can do.
I know I'm going to be with,
you know,
God and I will be like,
so like those,
like the gospel of Andrew is like,
circulating,
and it's a very popular text,
and it's influencing people.
Like that's the thing about media,
movies,
music,
like we,
we have the power to like influence minds
when we put stuff out there.
You know what I mean?
Like,
and so at that time period,
Andrew was like,
this is how,
this is how you be a real Christian.
You go to the church willing,
you go to the cross willingly.
Like,
and that was,
that was what people were doing.
You know?
I thought it was cool.
It's,
yeah,
I mean,
I know,
it's hard not to get inspired by people who believe,
believe in their cause so much that they,
they put themselves into these situations.
Yeah, I don't,
I don't deny that about Christians early on,
and they believe,
because a lot of Christians will say,
if they didn't really believe this stuff,
they wouldn't be doing it and not like,
okay,
I don't deny that they believed it.
I just,
Of course.
I'm just saying,
I don't know if they're right about it.
Like that's the whole thing right there, you know?
I'm sorry to get super dark,
but like the people who flew planes
in the buildings in 9-11,
they,
they believe what they believe.
Like they can,
they weren't just like,
I'll get unsure about the 72 virgins in heaven.
I'm just like,
they,
they really believe what they believe.
Like that's,
that's the thing about religion is like,
if you're going to believe in it,
then do you like what,
there was a famous,
if you're going to believe in it,
fly planes in the buildings like that.
There's a famous passage.
I forgot which,
it's a,
it's a pre-Socratic philosopher.
I forgot his name.
I might be an exegorus.
I'm just throwing,
for some reason that name's popping in my head.
And he went,
the Orphics,
by the way,
the Orphics are the original religion
to believe in like,
eternal life ideas
and initiation
and like being like saved salvation,
salvation religion.
And he,
he,
he was observing a bunch of Orphics
and he was talking to them.
They were telling him like,
oh, you could have eternal life
if you do this,
this, this, this and this.
And I think it's an exegorus,
but it could be just,
well,
I'll just say an exegorus.
An exegorus said,
then why are you still here?
Why don't you just kill yourself
and just go to your heaven?
And like,
and I love that text.
Cause it's like,
like,
if you really believe this word,
why aren't you like going,
you know what I mean?
Why aren't you going all,
all to the wall?
Like, why don't you do it?
Like, you, like,
it shows you something about
there always is going to be
a little bit of a doubt
because like Christians
are still living in this world.
They're still attending their jobs.
You still have their families.
They're still planning for their future.
They're still doing all the stuff.
But like,
wait a minute,
doesn't that mean you don't really believe?
So there's this weird thing that like,
that's,
that's a,
a reality that a lot of Christians
don't think about.
Yeah.
There's my favorite,
when I was,
I'm going on guys,
I'm going on.
Oh, this wine is hitting me.
Oh my gosh.
Why am I godless engineers channel?
Godless engineer channel this week,
but one of the funniest things
that he,
when he came on this channel,
he goes,
Oh, so do you guys have,
you know,
cause I was talking about my past
with Pentecostal snake healers
and Pentecostalism.
And he goes,
Oh, do you guys have snake healers,
you know,
in Australia?
And I said,
Oh, no,
I think that's pretty much
the American phenomenon.
He laughed.
He said,
Oh, he's like,
yeah,
sounds about right.
But,
but yeah,
it's,
it's funny because like the,
that's what the snake handlers do,
right?
Yeah.
They always go back to the,
that goes back to the Nascins.
The Nascins.
Oh, okay.
And the Nasc,
and the Nascins,
serpent people,
I mean,
Nascins serpent in Hebrew,
they were,
they adopted this idea
from the Orphics
of what's called a
Bacchic revelry.
And then the book of Acts,
you get this,
the verse about speaking,
everyone's speaking in tongues.
And then the,
the one guy's like,
are they drunk?
But like,
that was a real thing
that Christians were doing
early on.
And this,
there was this idea of
the Holy Spirit entering you,
and then you are taken over
by the Spirit
and you start speaking in tongues
and you can let snakes
bite you
and you'll be fine
because the Spirit has you.
And that,
those ideas are,
that was a well attested
in the ancient world,
not just by Christians,
but by the Orphics
and by the
Ellisonian mysteries
and the Bacchic,
the,
all those,
a lot of mystery
religions were doing
stuff like that early on.
Christians started doing it too.
And you see it today
with the Pentecostal people.
So they're,
those ideas are not new
or not just American,
but it is interesting
that you only see it in America now.
The,
you only see the,
the snake healers.
Yeah.
The,
the,
it's funny.
Yeah.
You know,
because that,
that verse in,
in John,
is as you pick up,
you'll drink poison
and be bitten by snakes
and you won't,
you will not die.
That wasn't in the original manuscripts.
It was the later adaptation.
So when these people are getting
whist off to hospital,
Bart Owen makes the joke,
like,
I wonder if someone should point out
to them like,
hey,
that,
that verse wasn't initially
in the original
Greek,
like,
not to say,
look,
look,
I'm not,
I'm not saying that your Bible's wrong
and it's not,
you know,
whatever,
but it's just like,
I'm just,
I'm not stating a prescription
or anything.
I'm just saying,
it's,
it's a fact that it wasn't
in the original manuscripts.
Yeah.
So,
or the,
there's no trinity,
there's nothing about the trinity
in the,
in the New Testament.
There's no,
that word trinity doesn't exist.
In the closest verse,
you're going to get to a trinity.
It's 1st John 5.7.
And if you can compare the King James
to the NIV,
you'll be like,
one of them is a full paragraph.
The other one's one sentence.
The NIV has the right
translation
based on the manuscripts.
But what happened is,
in the time of,
who wrote the
Texas Receptus,
Rasmus,
Erasmus,
Erasmus
was putting together
what's called
the majority text,
Texas Receptus.
He was putting together
all the manuscripts
into one mega Bible in Greek.
He could not find one manuscript
that said that there was going to be,
that there's a trinity,
that all three of these,
the Father, the Son,
and the Holy Spirit are all one.
So,
there was only in Latin,
this,
this extra
lengthy
first John 5.7 verse,
only it shows up in Latin.
And Erasmus is like,
no, I'm not looking at the Greek here.
I'm not trying to
mess with these
newer Latin
Vulgate stuff.
And so,
the,
the,
his,
his contemporary was like,
just make it happen here.
He gave him a,
he gave him a fake manuscript.
And so that,
that verse,
first John 5.7,
is from the 15th
or 16th century.
It's,
it's added later.
It's not.
Okay, so you hear,
you hear,
you heard it here first.
The Trinity was not
in the Bible.
And Michael Jones,
I want you to create
the sassiest
of replies to this video
on your TikTok.
Please.
I would love for him to,
I would love to try
to refute what I just said.
Pull,
pull us,
pull us to shreds.
Be the sassiest you can be.
Let's go.
I actually love,
I love Michael Jones.
I like Michael Jones,
but I debate him on that
all day long.
I love Michael Jones.
I learned that from
Bart Ehrman.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Bart Ehrman's the one who told me that.
Oh, wow.
There's so many,
there's so many videos
that Michael's doing at the moment
that is so,
like funny.
Like,
because it'll be like someone like,
do you know that Jesus
was a psychedelic vision of like,
like it'll be like something like
weird, like,
oh,
and,
and he's just like,
it's just cracking up.
I don't blame you for doing that.
Yeah.
I was a Christian,
I'd be doing the same content as him.
I'd just be like,
yeah,
let's find the,
find the wackiest claim
about Christians I can find
and do a rebuttal to that.
You know what I mean?
Because there's no,
there's no like Jesus mushroom
heresy happening
in the early Christian.
With that,
like,
Hippolytus and Justin Martyr,
they're not refuting the Jesus
mushroom people.
You know what I mean?
That doesn't exist.
I'm looking for a book that,
I won't get it,
but I've got some.
Do you want to know some?
No.
Do you want to know,
one of the wildest heresy
that I think in my,
actually,
I have a bunch of them
that we haven't even talked about yet,
but the one that came to mind
right now,
thinking about mushrooms was,
as a group of Christians
called the Elk sites.
The Elk sites were living
in the Persian Empire.
So they're not,
they're not Roman Christians.
They're Persian Christians.
They believe
that Jesus,
after he ascended into heaven,
he became a 14 mile wide angel.
14 miles.
He's so big
that when he comes to earth,
you'll be able to see him from space.
And he has a sister name,
the Holy Spirit.
I can't remember.
It might be Zoe,
but it might not.
He has a sister,
Holy Spirit,
who is just as big as him.
And there's these two giant angels
in the sky
that are 14 miles long.
This is what the Elk sites believe.
This is crazy.
Keep telling us
about that.
I'm just going to get this
more.
Okay.
All right.
That's the Elk sites.
The another one
that blows my mind
is called the
the Simonians.
The followers of Simon Magus.
So the story of Simon Magus is,
after the book of Acts,
you know,
everyone knows the story
about Simon Magus in the book of Acts.
He meets Peter.
He wants to buy the Holy Spirit
because he's a magician.
He wants to use it for magic.
Peter's like,
this can't be sold,
but here I'll save you anyway.
He gets,
he gets saved.
But there's an extra story
that happens later on.
And so he goes to Rome
with his wife, Helena.
And he starts a,
he starts a
Christian movement in Rome
called the Simonians.
And the Simonians
actually worshiped Simon Magus
as the Christ.
And they thought he was like,
as high as Zeus.
And his wife, Helena,
was as high as Athena.
So you have Zeus and Athena
are now Simon Magus and Helena.
And then Peter comes back to Rome
and finds him here,
you know,
and he's like,
let's have a duel, bro.
And I'll,
I'm just going to
make my own version of the story.
Okay.
This is just to make it fun
because this is not
obviously I'm making this up,
but like,
but no,
this is the text though.
So I'm going to paraphrase it
in a modern way to make it fun.
So Peter comes back to Rome
and you see Simon Magus
and he's like,
and Simon Magus is like,
brah,
we're going to have a duel.
I'm more powerful than you are
because I had the Holy Spirit.
And Peter's like,
all right, let's go.
Simon Magus starts flying up in the sky.
He's in the sky like,
yo, bro,
what do you got, bro?
I'm flying right now.
You can't do this.
Peter goes, really?
Really, dog?
Boom.
Makes him fall forward to the ground
and kills him instantly.
Peter just out,
out,
out magics him all day.
And that's the answer.
Where can I read this?
What are you talking about?
This is insane.
It's,
it's a,
it's one of,
it's one of the Gnostic texts.
Simon Magus.
Oh man.
I get it from,
I get all my Gnostic texts from this.
The Gnostic Bible,
you get all the different groups.
Oh, okay.
But yes,
that's the story of Simon Magus.
That's not in the Bible,
but it's in one of the later texts
in the second century texts.
And so,
but it gets even crazier though.
It gets even crazier
because that's the story.
That's how Simon Magus dies.
But there's a group of simonians
that actually do exist.
This is a real thing.
There's a Roman cult of Christians
in the second century called the simonians
who actually did worship Simon Magus.
They had a statue of him.
There was a,
there's an old Etruscan god
called Simonsencus.
And they took us,
they took a statue of Simonsencus
and it was on the island,
Tiber Island.
There's a Tiber,
the Tiber River right next to Rome,
the city of Rome.
There's an island there.
And this is where they were.
They had the statue of Simonsencus
and they made it Simon Magus.
And so they're worshiping Simon Magus
as the Christ.
Yeah.
So that was the Christian group
called the simonians.
And Helena, his wife Helena
was Athena.
So I'm telling you,
these early Christians were so,
they were so fun, man.
They were so different and fun
that I loved,
I love talking about this stuff.
That's why I told you,
we have a,
if we ever type a podcast,
let's do an early Christianity.
Honestly, there's so many,
there's so,
like here's another,
another book recommendation.
I love that.
The power is actually still there.
I have a friend.
Yeah, that's Tiber Island.
That's Tiber Island.
Now look up Simonsencus.
Simonsencus.
Or S-E-M-O-N-S-A-C-S-A-N-C-U-S.
Yes.
There's a Wikipedia page.
Can you type it out in the private chat?
Yeah.
I have a friend to,
who like,
I met when I was doing game development stuff.
I was,
she was an artist
and I paid her to do some stuff for us.
And we've stayed friends ever since.
In fact, when her and her husband came to
Sydney,
we flew down to Sydney
just to meet them
and say like,
Hey, what's going on?
Like,
she's really cool.
She lives in Rome.
She's her whole life.
Well, at least in Italy,
her whole life,
but she's in Rome.
And she literally went to a school
where she like,
learnt Latin.
And I'm like,
you,
like she has like,
I think she knows like six language.
I'm like,
you motherfucker,
you are so fucking cool.
And,
and when I was like,
when I,
when I go to,
when I come to Rome,
I'm going to have to check out,
you know,
I'm going to have to,
you don't have to show me around
because she just knows so much like,
she just knows so much school stuff
just to quickly shatter out to his,
his,
her,
she does like game development artwork and stuff.
She's really,
really cool.
Really,
really cool person.
That's like a cartoon version of what she looks like.
But she's,
yeah,
she's,
she's,
she's about us.
But,
looking up,
Sermon Sankus,
Sankus,
here we go.
Sermon Sankus.
That's him.
So, okay.
Just click on the one on the white one where it,
or whatever,
it doesn't matter.
That's okay.
That is Simon Madges.
They worship.
What?
They worship that statue.
I don't think that's the exact one.
I think we lost the one that,
okay,
so I don't know what that,
do you go to the one that's a color?
That one.
Why,
why are the penises so big?
That's what I want to know.
I don't know,
because he's a God.
You know,
they've got.
They've got such huge,
like I just,
no man can,
you know,
that's just too big
for any man to live up to.
Well, anyways,
that was the statue that they found.
The Etruscans left it behind.
It's not a new statue.
They repurposed an old Etruscan God,
because the name sounded similar to Simon.
So,
Sermon Sankus becomes Simon Madges,
and they worship him
as the High God.
He's not even,
he's not even like Jesus,
where he's the subordinate God.
He's the highest,
he somehow became the highest God in the Pantheon,
which is so mind-blowing.
Within Christianity,
within Christianity.
Yeah,
they were called Christians.
This is so wild.
Yeah,
and that's not,
that's not like,
there are people who are deified
after Jesus
in Christianity
that you don't know about.
Simon Madges,
Epiphanes was the other one.
There's a whole bunch of them,
you know.
Wow.
Just because they,
it's because they attain gnosis.
They reached that.
Yeah,
they got that secret,
the secret knowledge.
So,
thank you everyone for writing up.
We've got 60 live viewers.
I think that's the most we've ever gotten,
like surely.
Really?
No way.
This is the first time I've done something
like that on a channel.
Right.
Oh, wow.
It's uh,
we're just having fun.
Yeah,
it's really,
it's really good.
We don't have super chats yet.
I've gone through the two of the steps
to get monetized.
My channel is just being reviewed,
and it says it's going to take up to a month.
I'm like,
really dog, like,
please don't like,
that sucks.
We tried to get it to the final level.
When I applied for mine,
it was like within three days.
They were like,
yep, you're good.
You're monetized.
Oh, geez.
I really hope that the alcohol consumption
doesn't affect that.
But there are other channels
that are just purely alcohol channels
that they monetize.
So I'm like,
surely.
But the book that I was picking up before
is I have no idea how respectable this is,
but because you study psychedelics on your channel,
it's called The Psychedelic Gospels by
Jerry B.
I like this book.
And like scholars hate this book.
I like it just because I've read it.
Well, I haven't never read the whole thing.
But I've read through it.
And I was looking through certain paragraphs
in certain parts.
And I like the idea of it.
I like, so I don't know if like,
Kip Davis is watching this.
He's like, what the fuck do you do?
No, I get it.
I get it.
Scholars hate this stuff.
I'm the type of person that I love to hear
wild speculative theories.
As long as you admit it,
like this person's not like Ralph Ellis,
where he thinks like,
this is the truth and everyone else is wrong.
This person is like at least being like,
hey, this is, this is out there.
But so I respect it a little bit.
I'm not going to say I love it that much,
but like I like to hear like,
I want to actually get that guy on my podcast.
I think I think I emailed them and he didn't respond yet.
Did him and his wife write that book together?
Is there two people, two names on that?
Jerry B. Brown, PhD and Julia M. Brown.
Yeah, yeah.
So yeah, that's I emailed them and haven't responded yet.
I want, I just want to get them on just to ask them
about their evidence and just want to hear their opinions.
They seem like I like people who are thinking outside the box
because I'm not an academic because if I was an academic,
I could see why someone would be like,
come on, dude, that shit is just true.
I feel like your content from what I've seen
and what I'm trying to do,
I'm probably less scholarly in my,
I do a lot of interviews with human rights
and just a bunch of people's journeys and stuff.
But I feel like our, and myth vision,
like our content is trying to fall somewhere
in between the Joe Rogan experience
and like an academic lecture.
Like it's like entertaining enough,
but also trying to, yeah, trying to be educational as well.
I'm the same way.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, so the last major sect that I wanted to touch on is Marcian.
I know we've already, I forgot to like.
Kip is a legend.
I'm helping Kip set up his Patreon and stuff soon.
So if you want to be able to go.
He's on fire.
He's on fire.
Yeah.
He's the player of the month of February.
Like he's, whatever you want to,
if this was sports, I'm like,
he'd be like the MVP of the month.
Like he's been on so many channels this month,
doing so many things.
And I'm, even the day that I had him on my channel,
he was on like three other podcasts that same year.
Kip, what is this guy doing?
If you want to come on, you know, on deep drinks as,
as just a podcast, I'd love to have you on.
I was hesitant to ask you because you're already doing
so much for the panel.
And I asked Jennifer to come on.
And I just want to be respectful for everyone's time.
But, you know, I'm fascinated.
And the very first question I want to ask you is,
what are your top five favorite bands?
But save it, save it for when we do that.
Because I've seen you wearing an Iron Maiden T-shirt.
And I feel like we could talk about that.
Anyway, that's the most important question to me.
No, but, uh, so we've talked a little bit
about Marcian of Sinope,
that's all Sinop, Sinona, Sinope.
Marcian of Sinope.
So can you tell us a little bit more about Marcian?
So he, he rejected the Old Testament.
Right?
Yeah, he did.
Wild.
He rejected the God of the Old Testament and said
that there's things we can see.
And he's, he's obviously,
he's obviously looking at this from a middle Platonist lens
because the middle Platonist believed in
Plato's God is all good.
It's not jealous.
It does not need anything.
So he's thinking of Plato had to be right.
Because that makes sense.
If there's an all good God,
he can't need anything.
He can't be jealous.
And he's looking at the Old Testament where he says,
I'm a jealous God.
Whoa, strike number one.
And then Genesis one where he says,
Adam, where are you?
Strike number two.
You didn't even know where Adam was.
You're not, you're not omnipotent.
You're not, you're not omniscient.
Because you should have known,
you should have had the fore knowledge that no,
if you left him alone,
he was going to take a bite.
And so let me fix this real quick.
And so would that be,
should turn on?
Because he wrote this book because,
oh, he wrote this book called The Antithesis, right?
Yeah.
And we don't actually have a copy of the Antithesis,
but we have a response from someone who was trying
to discredit the Antithesis, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So it'd be like,
it'd be like not having the Bible,
but having Paul Copeland's book explaining the atrocities
of the Bible.
It's like, it's like that.
Yeah.
And we have enough in there to sort of reconstruct
what Marcian was about.
And so Marcian, like I said,
he's pointing to Old Testament stuff,
the, the, the setting the she bears after kids to eat them.
That's not a good God.
That's an evil God.
And the idea that he needs blood sacrifice,
that he needs you to slaughter an animal and need to,
to like, that's like, we're talking,
nah, nah, the Pythagoreans and the Orphics were like,
they were into vegetarian lifestyles.
And so he's coming out of that.
And so there's, that's Marcian.
But Marcian is also very interesting where he points out
that Jesus in the New Testament,
I forget, I think it's John that he's talking,
I think he's either John or Luke.
And I'm sorry, Kip, that I don't know which one it is.
He was going to yell at you.
Yeah.
One of those two texts that he's pointing out that Jesus,
he's talking to the Pharisees and he says,
your father, the devil.
So he's saying that their God is the devil.
And it's coming, he has,
Jesus is even backing up what he's thinking.
Because in the text, what Jesus says in the,
in the Greek, if you actually look at the Greek,
it actually says that I want to pull up the,
your father, the devil.
Let me see if I can find that text.
Your father, the devil first.
John 844 here, I thought it is John.
He says that you belong to your father, the devil.
You want to carry out your father's desires.
He was a murderer from the beginning,
not holding the truth, for there is no truth in him.
When he lies, he speaks his native tongue,
for he is a liar and the father of lies.
That's in the canon John Bible that Christians are reading today.
What?
Look, it was a long time since I read the New Testament cover to cover.
It's been probably 10 years, but no, it's been like five years.
But what is, what do Christians think,
what do current Christians think that they're talking about there?
Current Christians are saying, because they're Jews,
so there's an anti-Semitic spin now.
Ah, yeah.
The old anti-Semitic spin, Kanye West spin.
Yeah, they're following the devil.
But the Marcianites who, you might look at them and say,
they were anti-Semitic, but they weren't.
They didn't hate Jews.
They just thought that the Old Testament God was bad.
But he's saying that, and Marcian's saying that in John,
Jesus is pointing out that the Old Testament God is the devil because of this verse.
Wow.
So, so then, okay, I'm going to, I'm going to,
I'm going to try and play devil's advocate for the, um, the current Christian.
So, so why then does Jesus, like in the gospels,
so I imagine they accept, do they accept them to the Marcianite?
No, the Marcianites don't have.
They have, they're the first people to have a canon in all of Christianity.
Oh, really?
Marcian gives us the first Bible.
Wow.
So the idea of a bibliotheca is already a thing.
There's a Diodorus of Sicily writes a bibliotheca.
It's a Greek story about all the gods, Zeus, you know, Dionysus,
all the way down from Alexander the Great to Julius Caesar.
It's called the bibliotheca.
It means library in Greek.
A Pallodorus in the 300s BCE wrote a bibliotheca.
It's basically taking Hesiod's theogony and just like making his own version.
So, Bibles are already a thing.
The idea of a Bible is not a Christian idea or a Jewish idea.
It comes from the bibliotheca, which means library.
So, Marcian makes his own bibliotheca.
It makes his own canon library and he takes just purely the pistols of Paul.
In the book of John.
Sorry, Kip.
It's one or the other.
Either it's John or Luke X.
I forgot which one it is.
Kip is here.
Kip is here.
Oh, yeah.
Let me know.
It's either John.
So, here's what you need to know.
He has the epistle of John and one of the gospels.
That's it.
I can't remember if it's John or it could have been Luke X.
Because I'm thinking of Luke X because Luke X gets into Paul.
The story of Paul is in post-Chapter 8 of X.
But John is the very nosticky gospel.
Because he's got the logos.
He's got Sophie or it's got Zoe.
So, it could have been that one too.
Or maybe it is both.
I don't know.
All I'm saying is this.
Marcian is the first Christian to make a canon bibliotheca.
So, in Marcian's canon, I imagine,
the beauty of not being an academic is that I can be wrong.
And just be like, yeah, yeah.
I mean, to try and ask Dr. Josh Bowen anything.
And it's not my expertise.
He's just too punctual.
It's a good thing for an academic.
They do so much good work for us.
And we just take from them and we're like, yeah.
So, yeah, like this is the guys.
This is turning more and more into a Joe Reagan experience
kind of episode.
It really is.
Not to say I'm on Joe Reagan.
There's still more Christian groups
that I haven't talked about yet.
There's still more.
We'll get to that.
But so, just Marcian, I know that he accepted Paul.
He thought Paul was the first true Christian or something.
But he, Marcian, I imagine, how does Marcian
reject the Old Testament when Jesus
was quoting the Old Testament in parts?
Well, it's because of Paul.
If you actually do look at what Paul's saying, Paul talks
about the law being bondage and that Christ is freedom
from that bondage, which is the law.
So, this anti-law, which by default is anti-Old Testament
because the law, the Old Testament is the law.
The Torah is the law.
So, if the law is bondage, it's only natural
to be anti-Old Testament.
Marcian's, who's claims to be a student of Paul,
which is probably not true.
He probably was a student of a student of Paul
because the dates don't match up.
Paul died in the 60s.
Marcian's born in the 90s, I think.
So, he might have been a student of a student of Paul.
Okay, fine.
I believe that.
If he has access to all Paul's letters,
he probably was close because there's no internet back then.
If you have access to all Paul's letters in the second century,
you probably knew someone who knew Paul.
Anyways, long story short, he claims to be a student of Paul.
He's reading Paul.
Paul's talking about the bondage of the law.
That is not prone.
I'm sorry, that's diametrically opposed to the Old Testament.
And that's been one of my main arguments
against Christianity since I left Christianity,
is that the New Testament is not in accordance
to the Old Testament.
They are bumping heads, big time.
Yeah, I remember one of the parts in the Antitheses
or what we think was in the Antitheses,
which means contrary statements, is it's like,
you're saying that God is the same God.
Like, so Jesus is the same God that says,
Jesus says, let the little children come to me
and don't you hurt these little children.
He's the same God that said,
go kill the Amalekites and kill the infants and suckling children.
Like, you're saying that's the same God?
Like, you're saying, how can someone think this?
I love what Ricky Gervais says.
He says, like, Old Testament God's like 50s dad.
Takes his fucking belt off.
He's like, you're a fucking what?
He belts a shit out of his children.
Where New Testament God is like new dad
who doesn't use verbal or physical violence on the children.
That's why I like Marcia,
because he's kind of based in that way.
He's kind of, he's bringing the arguments.
He's bringing good arguments.
And the Canites are even more extreme with it.
They're not even, it's not even about like trying
to like balance out truth with their gospel.
The Canites are straight up saying, no, no, no,
flip it entirely on its head.
Can is the good guy.
Abel's bad.
Old Testament God bad.
Judas good.
Eve good.
Serpent good.
Every, every bad character good.
Every good character bad.
That's the Canites for you.
The Canites were, the Canites were gangsters, man.
They were, whoo.
Those Canites were something else, man.
That I love talking about the Canites.
Okay, so.
All right.
So we've gone through, we've gone through a lot,
but we've gone through the Ebenites,
Gnostics, proto-orthodox, masternates.
And so do you want to touch on your favorite, which is?
My favorite is the Gnossians,
because I love the syncretism about them.
We need to touch on them.
Gnossian preacher, you know, he's a, he's a, you know,
he's obviously a middle Platonist.
He's obviously a Pate.
Yeah, I would say he's a Pagan.
He's, he's talking about Addis and Osiris and Pan,
which is like the devil basically looks like the devil.
In Christians do call it saying the devil look.
The reason why the devil looks like Pan later on
is because there's a, uh, there's a pit in, in Israel.
And the, the, the location where the transfiguration went down
in the, in the, in the Gospels,
where there's Jesus, Moses, and Elijah on that mountain below that,
there's a, there's a pit that leads the Hades.
And it's called the sanctuary of Pan.
So the idea of Pan being the devil comes,
probably comes from that idea, like, you know,
and also in the Old Testament,
there's this idea of like in the desert,
there's satyrs are calling to one another
where Lilith dwells.
This is in Isaiah and like,
so satyrs are the, those horned goat looking guys.
So Pan becomes the image of the devil.
But, um, so, so Mars or, uh, the Nassim preacher is like,
that's the Christ.
Like he's, like he's the Dionysus,
Pan, Orpheus, Addis, Osiris, those are all Christ.
They all were work.
They were all leading up to Christ.
But, but like, and you might think of that,
and like Christians might be watching this and say,
obviously that's heretical.
Like, I don't, like, uh,
Irenaeus is based for saying he's a heretic,
but check this out.
Uh, the church historian, Eusebius writes a book called,
actually have it over here somewhere.
Oh, it's behind me.
Preparation for the Gospel.
And then this book,
he lays out all this literature from the plate,
from Plato, from Porphyry, from the pagan world,
this priest called Sanconiathan.
And he's like talking about all these old,
ancient Greek stories that are like leading up to the Christ,
basically saying like,
there's a story of this God named Saturn,
who's also called El in Hebrew.
So the God El from the Old Testament is deified
as a star Saturn, or called Cronos.
And he sacrifices his only son, Yehud, to our nose.
And this is the,
this is the mystical sacrifice of the Saphonians.
Sacrifice your only son for the sins of mankind.
And he says, this is preparation for the Gospels.
So the idea that pagans can have prophecy,
just like the Old Testament can have prophecy,
is not considered heretical just by,
it's not just the Naseen's doing this.
You have, Eusebius is doing this too.
Is that made sense?
It doesn't, like, this is, yeah, this is like blowing my mind,
like all of this is, it's, it's universal church,
which the Catholic, Catholic means universal.
They really are trying to stress, like everything,
it's not just the Old Testament leading up to Christ.
It's everything leading up to Christ.
It's like, you know what I mean?
Like the pagans and everyone, they're,
they're all pointing, everything's pointing to Christ.
They're all trying to make that argument.
That's becoming,
by the time it gets to Eusebius,
it's like a stab, it's an established argument
that Christ is like the end of all.
This is the, this is the true religion.
Everyone's stopped now or we figured it out.
That's, that's what they're trying to say, basically.
It's absolutely incredible.
So what, so I, so we were talking prior to the stream about,
like, because we only like started chatting yesterday.
And we, we, Derek introduced us to each other
and I got on, we got on a video chat
and instantly I could just tell,
we could just like ramble for,
we could just talk for days.
And one of the things you asked,
or you said you wanted to talk about
is what are some of the earliest,
what are some of the most craziest beliefs?
What are the, what are the weirdest beliefs
do you think that were in early Christianity?
Hmm. So I mentioned the Canites, obviously.
There's the, okay.
So the dosatis are interesting.
The dose, there's a group called the dosatis.
There's so many more than I thought there were.
Oh, there's, there's, I don't even know them all.
Okay. I'm just going to say this real quick.
Recommend this right here.
Refutation of all heresies by Hippolytus of Rome.
This is where I'm getting all this from.
If I'm not getting it from here,
I'm getting it from David Litwa or Bart Ehrman
or Celine Lilly.
She's great too, by the way.
She wrote a book called The Rape of Eve.
And she argues that Eve is like the Christ.
She's a savior.
Great. I had her on my channel.
Anyways.
So the, the, the dosatis are the closest thing you're,
you're going to get to a mythicist.
Because in all these heresies,
mythicism never comes up.
There's no, no one's even, that's not even,
no, everybody just thinks Jesus existed.
But the dosatis think Jesus, when he was here on earth,
he was a, a phasma, a ghost.
He was, they thought like he wasn't human,
but he was going through life as a ghost
and doing all of his acts as a ghost.
And he never actually had flesh because flesh is bad.
So he can't, he can't be a flesh.
Yeah, right.
That's the dose.
That's a, that's a pretty wild claim.
The dosatis, dosism was actually pretty popular too.
And the church really had to like,
battle that out for a while.
Wow.
But the exact opposite of that would be the Arians.
And this is later, this is not,
this is third, fourth century from Arius.
And he taught that Christ was subordinate.
Christ wasn't, you know, he did become,
he is the, he is the Son of God.
He is, you know, divine,
but he's still subordinate to the Father.
And if you ask me my personal opinion,
if I had to say what's the most
biblically accurate Christian belief,
it's the Arians.
They, they're the most, like, if you,
if you just took the canon, the books that are
in the New Testament, the 27 books of the New Testament,
it said, which, which Christian matches up
with those books, the best Arians do.
Because there's no like, the idea of
Christ being the same as the Father
when he's praying to his own Father
and saying, Father, why have you forsaken me?
Or all this stuff.
Oh, he's praying to himself.
Yeah.
Like, yeah, that doesn't make any sense.
But the Arians made it make sense.
They said, okay, he's still divine,
but he's subordinate to the Father.
And for some reason the Christians couldn't
deal with that.
Like the church was like, no, that can't be true.
And like that, the Arians almost won out.
They almost became the Orthodox.
In fact, when Rome got sacked in 476,
guess who came in when, when the barbarians sacked Rome?
They were not pagans from Germany.
They were not German pagans.
They were Arians because Arias taught people
in Germany his ways.
So when, when, when Rome got taken over by the Germans,
by the Ostrogoths, they were Arian Christians.
Christianity never let Rome, when Rome fell,
stayed Christian all the way through.
They were Arians for a while.
And then they came back to the Catholic Church
because of Justinian.
But they were Arians for, for a short while,
when it was the, when the Goths were in control.
Wow.
Wow, wow, wow.
So just, just for everyone interested in the,
in the chat, I have dropped some links for the
the refutation of all heresies for the Gnostic Bible,
Revised and Expanded Edition and the Nagamardi
Light Scriptures, which is the book that I've read
that I haven't, that I've got that I haven't read yet.
And these go through a lot of what we're talking about here.
We're currently trying to get monetized.
I'm going through the process I mentioned before.
Now I have to get reviewed on this channel.
And we're just waiting to get reviewed.
Hopefully it happens soon.
But if you want to support the channel,
if you use those links, I'll get a little bit of money for that
and which will help me get better guests.
And hopefully we'll be able to do this full-time.
There are so many people I want to have deep conversations with.
And I see so many amazing people in the chat,
including Maya, who I've become a recent fan of yours,
my Atticus, so I want to, I want to say hello to her
and everyone else.
Thank you for coming out.
So, so this, so okay, I got a cup.
There's one more group that I want to mention that is-
Yeah, let's, let's do that.
Let's, let's just jump into that.
One more, one last group that I think needs to be mentioned
is the Noetians.
The Noetians have no Trinity,
but they thought that Yahweh and Jesus are the same.
So the Orthodoxes are probably watching this.
What, like, yeah, that's true.
Yeah, tell us more.
But there's no Trinity.
They think that Yahweh came into the world as a human who is Jesus.
Lived his life, died, resurrected,
and then went back to being Yahweh again.
So there's one God that's completely monotheistic,
but Jesus and Yahweh are the same people, same person.
One of them is flesh, one of them is spirit.
That's it.
There's no Holy Spirit.
Yeah.
Moesha, is it, how do you spell that?
Can-
N-O-E-T-I-A-N-S, Noetians.
And that's just like 10% of what this guy tells us about.
There's so many more Christian groups out there,
but like, that's a, I think I named like 15 by now, right?
I named a lot of them.
The more you, the more you, the more you mentioned,
the more we have to drink and, and, and celebrate your remembrance,
is, um, then I'm nearly, you know, I'm, the bottle's nearly,
you know, it's half done for me.
Well, I've still got this, this cup.
But, um, so, okay, cool, cool, cool.
This is, this is all super interesting.
I had a question actually about psychedelics.
Yeah.
I've heard it said, now I know this is going to,
this is going to be fringe of the fringe, right?
This is, this is not a, this is a meme.
This is a meme level, like scholarship, right?
I've heard that people have attributed the burning bush
that Moesha saw in the Old Testament to be a psychedelic plant that was in-
Ayahuasca, Ayahuasca, or they say, uh, the Acacia, the Acacia tree,
because that's where-
Yeah.
That's where you get Ayahuasca and DMG from.
Right.
Okay.
So is there any, is there any-
There's no tech-
No.
Okay.
It's made all speculative.
I had one.
Interesting.
It's all made up.
Oh.
So, like, they're not, they're not getting this from any text that says this.
They're just like, oh, bush.
Oh, yeah.
Acacia's a bush.
Oh, Acacia trees.
You can extract a DMT from it.
Therefore, that must be what Nemozas was doing.
It's all just swat-
It's fun speculative stuff for, like, non-scholars, for internet people on Reddit,
but scholars, scholars aren't saying that shit.
Okay.
So it's like Reddit scholarship.
Okay.
That's interesting.
So was there any, uh, any hallucinogenics used in early Christianity, um,
for any type of spiritual practice?
I can't say definitively that there was, but, like,
when we look at the Sethians and the Nassians, and we see how they're, like,
working within the framework, not, not, not saying they're borrowing from or stealing from
or copying, but they're sort of in this middle platenist framework that comes out of,
that you also see with the Ellosinian Mysteries orphics.
And then those Ellosinian Mysteries and Orphics, you do see Kaikianus.
Now, that doesn't mean the Christians were doing the same thing.
But, um, there, that is one of the charges that's brought against the Nassians and the Sethians
from people like Hippolytus when he's, when he's talking crap about them.
He says they're doing that stuff.
So a lot, a lot of scholars will say, well, that's sort of a polemic.
Like, it sounds like he's talking crap.
So we don't know if they're really doing that.
But I have heard a few fringe scholars.
I don't, I'm not saying fringe, like they're like dumbasses,
but like they're outside of the, uh, outside of consensus.
I've heard them say, like David Hillman said this, David Hillman said,
if, if the Ba'kiks were doing this, there's no reason why Christians wouldn't want to do this,
too. Like this was kind of a popular thing was to take a, take a sacred, take your sacred,
drink your sacred cup, the chalice.
The Valentinians were, had this like central theme of like the chalice drinking the blood of Christ,
the wine. And so it wouldn't be like completely crazy to think that there might have been
something like that happening.
But we just don't know.
It's, there's no evidence for like, like there's no, we don't have a text that says it's
definitively happened.
So we can't prove that.
We can speculate on it, but it's not like, it's not like definitively that we know this.
So, so most scholars say no, but there are a few that say, well, the Ba'kiks were into this stuff
and the Holy Spirit thing with the speaking in tongues and the revelry, that sort of
kind of comes off as Ba'kik revelry.
Like it might not be a stretch that they're doing this as well.
So it might be there.
It might be there.
Are there other, there are obviously other religions that focus heavily on psychedelics,
right? Like especially some, some more.
I was in the mysteries.
I was in the mysteries.
Karl Rook has laid this out, has laid this out.
I had it on my channel twice.
They drank the Kaikyan.
It was the cup and the Kaikyan was a mixture of ergot, which is, which is fermented grain.
So Demeter represents grain.
Demeter, Demeter is the grain goddess.
When you, when grain goes bad, it becomes fungus.
But also when wine goes bad, it becomes, or when, when, when grape goes bad, it becomes wine.
And they would, they would make a mixture of this.
And they called it Kaikyan.
We don't know the exact recipe.
We lost the recipe.
But we know it was a psychedelic recipe that they took during their initiation ritual.
And they would give them a spiritual experience in which they would never,
when they came out of the spiritual experience, they would relate that they talked to gods.
They, Ba'kis would enter them.
They had the spirit of Ba'kis in them.
They would talk to Demeter.
They had this experience of meeting the gods.
And they would never, they would no longer fear death.
They would feel saved after that moment.
So that was part, that was going on in Elozinian mysteries.
And so the, that sounds like a Eucharist.
The drinking, drinking the blood of a god.
There were, they, they thought that drinking the Kaikyan was drinking Dionysus himself.
Dionysus was entering your body through drinking this wine.
So the idea, the idea of a god entering your body or drinking or eating a god,
the eating the blood or eating the, the body of Christ and drinking the blood of Christ.
We see that, we see those motifs happening, not only just in Elozinian mystery, like I just
mentioned, but also in Egypt with Osiris in the book of the dead.
It talks about eat my flesh or eat, eat the, eat the cakes and drink the, drink the wine.
And like that's Osiris.
So like these ideas are out there.
That framework is out there.
This is, this is incredible.
I, I feel like I've got so much reading to do.
And, and then I'll need to, I'm not even going to ask you permission.
I need to have you back on this channel to discuss this again when I have more questions.
But I thought what we could do is we could wrap up this conversation.
I mean, when I say wrap up, probably another like three hours.
No, but like not, we're not ending real soon, but I wanted to kind of like pivot the conversation
towards how we got the canon of scripture and not, not, not sorry, how we got the canon, but like
how Christianity went from these like diverse sects to the conversion of Constantine and
the person you mentioned before, who I forgot, but like how it went from being,
how these other Christian, these were kind of stamped out of existence.
How, how did that happen?
What's the timeline?
Can you give us a rough timeline and then we can go into some details.
Yeah.
So Constantine converts into Christianity.
Well, let me go back a little bit.
Let me, let me set the stage.
So Rome was the seat of power for as long as the second, the Roman Republic days.
And then they become the empire after Augustus, who was adopted by Julius Caesar.
So there's this idea that Caesar, who's also called son of God, by the way,
he starts this new Roman empire and Rome is the seat of power for a long time.
And everything's all good for the next 100 years.
Going through, there's some civil wars.
They have the, you know, the Vespasians have to take control after a year of the four empires.
And then there's like the good, the five good emperors.
There's Nerva and there's Trajan, Hadrian, Antonis Pius, Marcus Aurelius.
And then his son, Commodus, after a son, Commodus, Marcus Aurelius, son, Commodus,
there's the, it's what's called the, the, the crisis of the third century.
And then Rome takes, so Diocletian moves all the resources that are in Rome to Constantinople.
And he starts moving all the, the main, you know, every, everything's moving over there.
By the time you get to Constantine, or no, let me just, let me just set the stage for a second.
There's a, there, before that happens though, there's a emperor called Elagabalus.
And Elagabalus was the grandson of a wife of Septimus Severus, whose name is Julia Domna.
She was deified as a goddess in this, in like the thick, they thought that she was like Athena
incarnate. But anyways, long story short, he's, he's coming from a priesthood that, that stretches
back to, to Mark Antony and Cleopatra in Syria. And the Romans are thought this was so cool.
And they're like, and so he becomes the Roman emperor. But what he does is he transforms
Roman religion forever. So up until that time period, there was, you worship Jupiter, you worshiped,
you know, Saturn, you worshiped Dioroma Dionysus. There's all the, the traditional gods, the pagan
gods. But then when Elagabalus takes over and becomes the Roman emperor for a short while,
he transforms the Roman religion. And this god called Elagabalus, who's a sun god,
becomes the highest god in the pantheon. I've just, just, just to, just to pipe in quickly, I've,
just a quick question. I have heard that the, that, uh, that Christians were called atheists in
Rome. Yeah. If they didn't accept, they were called eight. So Christians were called atheists
because they didn't accept the gods of Rome. Is that right? They were called atheists because
they didn't believe in Jupiter. They didn't believe in Athena. They didn't believe in Saturn. They
just believed in Jesus. And that's it. So they were called, they were called atheists because
they didn't believe in the traditional pagan way. Those damn atheists. Yeah. Just damn atheists.
Elagabal, in fact, uh, I'm gonna get it. I'm, uh, I'll get to this in a second because, uh,
Julian the apostate writes all this stuff about the atheists. And he's talking about the Christians.
But Elagabal is transformed into Roman religion. The sun god becomes a new thing. It's a syncretistic,
synchronistic, uh, Platonist, like sun god thing where Mithras and Jupiter and, and, and Helios
kind of get rolled into one and they become soul and victus. And Aurelian loves this. Aurelian
saves the empire. The empire is about to break off into three parts. The Gallic empire in the,
in the West, that's Gall is, is, is becoming its own thing. And the Palmarian empire is
breaking off of Rome too. So Rome was about to fall in the third century. Rome almost fell.
Aurelian saves the Rome from falling, but he, and he really loves this sun god thing. So after
that, that's it. Rome, the old religion, as we know, it is done. Christianity didn't dethrone
the old religion. The old religion was already gone from this sun god thing. So now going into
the third, fourth century, there's this idea that these Syrian and Jewish religions are, are the
true religions. So you have soul and victus, Christianity, Judaism, that's kind of like
whatever one's into now. That's like the new thing. And when we get to Constantine, those are the two
major religions of his legions. The people that are running the legions are the, are like the
power behind everything. If you have, if you have 10 legions, you can do what you want. You
could just take over cities, do whatever you want. And whatever those legions believe in,
whatever religion those religions are believing in, that's going to be the religion of the empire.
So those, those legions are split between the soul and victus religion that comes out of the
Elgabilus tradition, sun god religion. And then they have Christianity, which is becoming super
popular because Christianity is telling you you can have eternal life just by believing in this
thing. People like that. Like, Oh, really? I can just believe in Jesus and have eternal life.
That's great. And so that's becoming popular because of that. Now we get to Constantine,
Constantine gets converted to Christianity. Now we have a Roman emperor who's putting his own
power and funds and time into this religion. So he doesn't, he doesn't make all the other
religions illegal. He doesn't make Christianity state religion either. There's actually something
having to between them. You have Julian the apostate, he tries to revert back to the
soul and victus religion. He gets killed by the Christians in Parthia, as he's invading the Parthians.
And then anyways, that ends up bad. Christianity takes control again. A couple of decades later,
Theodosius becomes the emperor. And he is just a complete fundamentalist dogmatic Christian.
He decides that can ham of the can ham of the can ham is emperor.
So we have this can ham looking emperor. He just, I hate Theodosius. Every time I think of Theodosius,
I get mad because he ruined the world. He really did. He closes down all the pagan temples,
shuts down the libraries. He's like going out. He's literally going after Christians that are not
Orthodox and killing them. And he's like, he's systematically oppressing anyone that's not
Christian, that's not Catholic. And that's the end of everything else. That's, that's when
Orthodoxy becomes Orthodoxy Theodosius, one of the worst humans of all time, in my opinion.
Because I think that religion should be like an art. I think religion should be people should
decide what they believe in, what they feel they believe in. They should be able to connect to
their own God in their own personal way. That's what I think religion should be. Theodosius destroyed
that. He said that this is the only way Christianity is the only way. And that became the western
religion ever since. And that's how it happened. Yeah. So he was a, so 379 or 395 is he was
He rated like famous temples. He shut down the temple of Athena and Athens, which was up for
hundreds of years, thousands, maybe he shut down the temple of Serapis, which was in Egypt that
was dedicated to Osiris and Isis that was like super famous. And he had like mobs go and attack
and destroy and burn it down. He had Pergamum destroyed. He was just horrible, dude. He sucked.
That dude sucked. That's Ken Ham. Ken Ham of antiquity. They, or the Roman Empire,
it reminds me a little bit of like when the Taliban destroyed like
Buddhist statues in, I think it was Pakistan. Like the local Muslims were devastated because
those, those Buddhist statues were like, were like, were like very old. Like they were huge,
very old. They were special to the people who even, even as an atheist, don't you feel bad about that?
Oh, I have a horrible. Because you're like, it's like a lot of people have their, their sacred
institutions. Yeah, their traditions. Like I'm an, as an atheist, like I'm not like anti-Semitic
or anti or anti Muslim. Like I think people should believe what they want to believe in.
I love religion. It's just a very different love that I had from when I was religious. It's like,
it's like, it's tradition. Religion to me is like, it's like, it's beautiful in so many ways. It's
horrific in so many other ways. It's dramatic. It's humanity's first attempt at trying to
understand the cosmos. And it's, yeah, it's the first time history. Yeah, it's like,
and it's beautiful in so many ways because of that. Like even the horrific parts are beautiful.
It's like, damn, like this stuff, like, you know, it encompasses like,
humanity and psychology and like, and who we are as people, like it's important. And to see
things like this be destroyed or removed, it's horrible. Like, I, yeah, I'm not a fan of destroying
even like some of my favorite places to go. Like when, when my wife and I, you know, we went to
Europe, some of my favorite places were the churches. Like I love going to the churches.
Of course, we were still Christian at the time, or we considered that, well, I was questioning.
But there was this, I don't know if you know of this, this is, this is kind of weird history, but
there's this church in Prague that we went to, right? And there is
commenters, if anyone in the common had been here, comments have been here. I'd love to,
I'm going to find it. Beautiful city, by the way. I'm Polish, so I know about Prague.
Oh, cool. Prague is, that's the city right there. That's, that's, you know,
I have, we tried to be travel vloggers for about two minutes. When we went over there,
we went very good. And like our channel has got like seven views and stuff. Like it's,
I can't even find it when I look it up. But when we went to Prague, there's this church that we
went to, that one of the, I think it was like 400 years ago, someone tried to steal something.
Here we go. Yeah, no, I know what you're talking about. One of the churches in Prague is one of
the most famous in the world. I know what you're talking about. Is it, is it, is it same Benedictus
or no? No, it's not that one. So we, this is church where, look at us travel blogging,
but this is church here. And what happened is someone tried to steal some, some jewelry
and they caught them. It might be St. Vitus. Oh, and they, they cut off his hand.
Wow. And they hung their hand from the ceiling and it's still there today. Just this shriveled
hand. Are you serious? There's no signs or anything. I'm about to show it. So if you're
squeamish, look away, but it's, you can't really see anything. I'll see it. I want to look at it.
So this is my wife talking about it. We go into this church. So this is the church, creepy as
well. Yeah, that's a beautiful looking church. That's it. That's my God hanging from savage,
dude. What the hell? They're hanging. Oh my God. It was wild. Like this.
Yeah. I'm just trying to understand real quick. Just keep talking. No worries. So it was wild to
me. It's like this, this, this, this crepe at hand that it's just, that it's just there.
Yeah. It's just beautiful, beautiful, beautiful. I shot all of this on my iPhone seven. I was so,
so proud of how the footage that came out. It's just incredible. Apparently too, we never went to
this church, but there was this one church in Prague that had like two brothers, I think it was,
that were fighting about how more holy their part of the church could be. So they filled it with so
much like gold and stuff. But yeah, this is the church. I don't know the actual church is called,
but yeah, it's just wild, right? A decrepit hand still hanging there 400 years later.
I think it's 400 years, but yeah, we're both just like, that, that is some crazy stuff. Yeah.
Yeah. Me and Derek, they tried to in that, we went to Israel, did some, did some blog in there.
So that's where I've seen you from. I thought I saw you. Yeah, me and Derek. Yeah, I love that.
You baptize each other in the, you know, do I know some crazy shit when we were in the water?
We didn't know this. We didn't know that there was a solar eclipse happening while we were in the
water. Oh, wow. We made a joke. We're like, that's some, instead of like the, the, instead of like
the spirit coming down and like the light, we're like, it got dark. Like it was like an atheist
baptism and like, we're joking around about that. But like, it blew our minds. We were,
we thought they were joking with us because we got back in the bus and somebody said,
Hey, a solar or a low solar eclipse just happened. We were like, what time? And they were like,
they said the time we're like, dude, we were in the water in that time. It just blew our minds
that a solar eclipse happens where we're in the Jordan River, baptizing each other as jokes. And
then yeah, that's us. Yeah. I love that. I miss it there, man. That was a good, that was a really
good trip. I dare, I love Derek, man. I love it. I owe so much to Derek, man. You don't even know
I Derek is such a good dude. I will always, that's me. I said, I said to Derek, I said,
he's always like, I said, I love this channel. And like, I've spent, I spent hours talking
to Derek on the phone back when he's back one time ago, just such good. He wants to help
everybody. Like he just, yeah, he goes out of his way to help anyone who asked him. Like he's,
and if anyone doesn't know, I started with 200 subscribers and I reached out to the interview
him because I was so fascinated by his channel. He responded right away and I got him on my channel
and then he started promoting my channel and he, he's the reason why I'm where I'm at.
Look, I owe it all to Derek. I swear to, I owe it all to Derek.
Derek, Derek is like, let's just have a big Derek first. He's probably not even listening,
doesn't even care. He's gonna work. He's working right now. He's always working. He's a hard
worker dude. He's crushing it. And I came on to, I learned from him a lot of things on how to
really work hard and do and try to be as good as possible. Like Derek, I look up to him. We both
struggled with substance abuse and he's two years ahead of me. So he got clean two years before I
did. And he started channel, he started channel two years before I did. He's also two years older
than me. So it's like this weird coincidence that I met this guy and I'm just following his path,
man. He's, he's such a great guy. He really is. If anyone doesn't know, like go check out his
surviving heroin religion. Like he talks about deconstructing his faith in the middle of overcoming
heroin addiction. And like he's just, he's just a, it's no big deal. And Derek and the other Derek,
Derek, Derek Bennett too, we all have addiction and alcoholic past. And part of, part of the
12 step program is believing in a higher power. Yeah. So when you, when you're in, when you're
in a religion, you're, it's all good. You have your higher power. But once you start deconstructing,
now you have a conflict here, is this going to affect my, my, my sobriety? Because my sobriety
depends on a higher power. It's a weird predicament that no one's figured out yet.
This is going to, I'm wondering if I should say this or not. Say it.
Okay, hang on a sec. You don't have to. I've never said this on stream because I knew that,
like I thought it would get taken out of context. I don't even know if Derek knows this.
I'm going to get real with everyone. Hang on. Let me just, let me just find it.
When you type in David McDonald on YouTube, it comes up with this clip that says,
David McDonald was a racist, but God changed his heart. And it's like this dude here.
Who's that guy? I have no idea who that guy is, but God changed his heart. He used to be a racist.
You would think it'd be something better. Like he used to be gay, but God changed his heart or
something racist. They cared about that all of a sudden. Yeah. Usually it's something different,
you know? It's great that they did actually. Yeah, that's a good video. Cool. Let's have God
fix racism. That would be a cool thing. I would believe in that God. Imagine that. Imagine if
part of this Christianity thing was like, oh, if you believe in our God, you won't be a racist.
Then I was like, okay, now I can go and now I can get behind your religion now.
You know what I mean? Like there, but I don't know. I'm just throwing stuff out there.
I can't find it. I did have it on my, so I have this like channel where I just post
home videos and stuff. I think I removed it actually because I thought it would cause too
much issues, but I actually went to rehab myself. So I'm another one of those people,
but the reason I don't mention it is because it happens to a lot of people, man. It's not.
The thing I want to mention though is the reason I went to rehab was not
like, I was there. I shouldn't have gone. I shouldn't have gone. So to give you some context,
like I smoked weed for a few weeks, started getting a little bit like paranoid and thought,
I need to radically change my life. And I had a Christian lady, you know, my dad was an alcoholic.
He went to rehab. He got his life sorted. I decided this Christian lady, I was living with,
said, maybe you need to go to rehab because she didn't know what to do. You know, like I got angry
when I punched a bus stop, had bloody knuckles. Like, oh, so you had a rough patch and you wanted
to like, yeah. And I went to 90 days at rehab. There were people there who like,
there were people that who they were like, you know, um, you know, they're real, real heroin.
You know, from straight from Tom. Yeah. And I was there like feeling like an idiot,
but I did the 90 days and that's actually where Amy and I met not met. Sorry. That's where Amy and
I, my wife, we started writing to the letters and I was like, I'm trying to get my life online.
And that's where we kind of rekindle the romance. And that's how we got together.
But yeah, it's, it's so I'm very familiar with the 90 day program, the AA, NA and the idea.
So you know, you know, the predicament of somebody who's, yeah, because, but also has to clean their
life up. It's a real predicament that no one, and as far as I know, me and Derek talk about this all
the time, no one has figured this out yet. This is weird. Yeah. It's been proven by psychology,
psychiatry, that finding a higher power to believe in can help somebody get out of addiction. That's
a proven thing. Oh, of course. I'm not saying that's not the real thing. It's just that like,
once we get into all these other subjects like science and should, is religion good,
is religion bad, then all of a sudden we're in a predicament. Should we help the addicts? Should
we not? Like, you know, it's a real predicament. It really is. There was this, there was this
person at one of the NA meetings we went to who said they were 20 years clean and their higher
power was a truck. And the reason, the reason why their high power was a truck is because it could
drive, it did deliveries. I think it was a mail truck. It did deliveries. And he said,
it drove past six bottles and 12 pubs a day and didn't go into one of them. That was, and he didn't
have that power. So he said that he didn't have the ability to do that. So that was his higher
power. And I was like, that's interesting. And he was 20 years clean. That system of choosing a
higher power based on your own self. I can get behind that. There's no dog one that it's like
it's an artistic expression of the self and finding a God that represents like your values.
That I can find all day long. It's just that when we get into like this dogmatic,
here's the 10 commandments and do you better do this or that? That's when problems arise. You
know what I mean? Yeah. And, and not to, you know, and to lose, you know, the hundreds of
to lose 100 subscribers, I'll say this, but Jordan Peterson has some outrageous and ridiculous
perspectives on climate change, transgender identity, sexual sexuality, sexism and everything
like that. The problem with Jordan Peterson is sometimes he says stuff that is just really on
point. And one of the things that he says is for people like myself that was in
rock bottom, Jordan Peterson was one of the people that I looked up to that. Yeah, I needed to hear
from like that. And I always tell people that like Jordan Peterson is like somebody who's standing
out to people who are rock bottom. You got to remember that he's he knows who to look for to
find as a new follower. Yeah, that's that's the thing is it's um, and that's the problem with
Andrew Tate as well. As much as he is just like an absolute scumbag douchebag got the worst ideas
on the planet. Sometimes he says some stuff that actually is like, okay, that's probably some good
advice. Hate saying that it's goodbye to all the subscribers that joined closely. No, but, but,
there's 90% of what Andrew 99% of what Andrew Tate says is just dumb, but dumb as far as there
have been a few points. Yeah. But with Jordan Peterson, he said once that was really good advice.
He said, um, you know, if you if you're drinking every day, that's a hell of a, he loves to say
hell, it's a hell of a thing. It's great. Like people being drunk is fun. You need something
that's bigger than that to help you kind of move off it. So it's like you need to, if you've got
something that's worth more to you than the alcohol. So whether that be your family, whether
that be like a dream career or something like something that you're working towards can really
help you get out of that, that space. It depends where you kind of are, but it really can like help.
When you're in that space of depression and darkness and, you know, being like at the bottom
and you're whether you're in prison or rehab or whatever, someone like Jordan Peterson will be
appealing to you because you're looking for, you're looking for someone to tell you that you're worthwhile
and you're and you just got, you just got to do these things and the world's wrong and you're
right. And like you, like you want someone like that. So it can be dangerous and it can be
culty in a weird way. Like I had Jordan Peterson's books all behind me. I had that thing in my life
where I was a big Jordan Peterson fan and like I'm glad that I'm sad that I'm sad that now because
there's too much anti-trans, anti-progressive, anti-everything, dude. He's very harmful and
his overall 100%. The thing, the thing is, so I would still encourage people to understand
his arguments because I think the problem is, is a lot of people, a lot of, I'm on the left. I
consider myself a LGBT ally. Like I, you know, I'm on left, but I think the issue with censoring
these people is no one has an idea on how to actually argue against these ideas anymore because
we just banish them, like mute them, call them names and like block them on Twitter or whatever.
I think people should understand that his ideas, a lot of his ideas are very stupid,
but some of his ideas actually aren't right. And that's why people get attracted to him and then
fall into the trap of believing all these ridiculous perspectives. Yeah, I think it's better to have
the discussions and dialogues that you can actually review bad ideas and show, because a lot of people
will say, okay, if you talk to somebody who's on the opposite side of you of political aisle,
just having a conversation with that person is bad because you're probably platforming them.
But if you don't, if you don't show yourself challenging those ideas,
that could be an echo chamber over there. And if it's not challenged, people won't see it.
So even if, even if you don't convince that person that you're debating to change, at least
someone who's watching can hear your arguments against them. And that could help the person.
So I think it's, I'm not saying we should platform everybody and just give them all,
but I'm saying like probably better to have some dialogue and not just let them have
fester in an echo chamber, right? Exactly. Well, we've definitely gone off track. I think,
thank you. Thanks for the line, but I'm having a good time anyway. I have some,
if anyone's got some questions, I'm dropping in the thing now, but I've got some questions for you,
Neil. Neil, actually, I have a younger brother named Neil. It's not differently, but yeah,
a legend of a dude. So he's actually, my little brother, Neil, is actually probably one that got
me to think, got me one to think critically about science and things in the first place.
Like I would come to him with my testimonies of cool ideas, and he would ask me about the
science and got me to think more critically. He was really cool. He's a younger brother,
he's in video, a lot of ways I look up to him. Do you think he's Neil? Same cell as me?
Yeah, N-A-I-L-O. Yeah, different last name, but cool guy. So in fact, when we got back from,
one of the things I wanted to do when I got back from Europe just talking about that Europe trip
is we made wizard staffs. Do you know what wizard staffs are, like with drinking?
Yeah, the staff, like the magic, like the... No, well, yeah, I know what they are, that,
but I mean like, so what we do in Australia is you drink a can of beer, and then you drink another
can, and then you tape it to the other beer, and then you keep doing that, and then once you get
over your head in length, that's called a wizard staff. So when we got back from Europe, me and
him sat there watching movies all night and drinking beers, I was actually relatively so
because it took 12 hours to drink 15 beers or whatever. So, but at the end, we had these long
stars, and we walked around the block at seven in the morning, and everyone was beeping their
horns. That's classic Australia, right? But yeah, I made a wizard staff with him, so it was cool.
Anyway, so two, not to get too distracted, but so these are the questions I like to ask
all my guests. So I have a bunch, but what is the best advice you've ever been given?
The best advice I've ever given is to
be able to control your own self and be able to give to others.
Oh, that's great. Yeah, balance, hey, balance is so, you would know, right, with the old
drug use stuff like that. For recovery reasons, control yourself as far as like being in control
and having control of like where you're at and your decisions, but also to be able to
help someone else. The feeling of helping someone else is really, really a powerful thing. It really
is. Yeah, it sounds like cliche, but it's true. It really is. No, it really is. Even if people,
even if people spit in your face when you give to them and you help them out,
help someone build a YouTube channel and they spit in your face, at least you tried, you know.
Hey, like, look, man, I never thought you'd be preaching to turn the other cheek, but
just one last shout out. Make sure you go check out Nostoconformant. Great stuff on the channel there.
That's YouTube.com. You can see it on the live stream. If you're watching, if you're listening,
just go check it out. It's great, great stuff. Pumping out videos like so much. Like,
look at you. You're pumping out like so many videos. Yeah, I try. I'm working my ass off. Yep.
I was doing deep drinks weekly, but I'm pumping out. I did deep drinks a couple of nights ago,
but we're just, we're going to be doing more and more episodes. That's good. That's how you get
somewhere. Secondly, we have 1,122 subscribers. Thanks, guys. You can see the huge influx that
we've had. Wow. Look at that. Look at that mountain right there. Look at that. Yeah. It's crazy,
right? So thank you, everyone, to who's subscribed. And let's get this subscribe train going. The more
subscribers we get, the more I can justify getting on more guests. I'm going to be trying
me doing more than one a week. And I'm also probably going to be setting up some sort of a
patron or way that people can support me. And I would really love to hear what you'd like to,
I'll create a poll. I'll create a post. I'd really like to see what people would want to get out of
the patron, whether it be like conversations with me or behind the scenes kind of stuff or
conversations with guests that aren't necessarily live-streamed, things like that, or blog posts.
So I'd really love to hear that because I want to be the best guest that I can be. I'm even
considering going to a speech therapist to stop my mumbling so I can and get better at presenting
my ideas. So I'm getting there. I'm getting there. And also make sure... Anacom, look at your suit.
Thank you. And also the panel on, does the Bible condone slavery with these five
horsemen? I can't believe I got to meet them in. That's a huge... That's a big panel right there.
That's huge. That's prime time shit right there. That's... Yeah. I know. Crazy. All five of them too.
All five of them. I know. And it's all thanks to Dr. Josh. He really did the legwork on that.
But just we're going to... I'm going to tweet this out and we're going to send this to every
apologist who ever references slavery and tries to kind of panel in their more favorable light.
So thank you everyone for subscribing and doing what you do. I really appreciate it.
So next question.
What is the most plausibly true religion? So you're an agnostic atheist, right? Or an atheist?
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. If anything...
Ideasome. I'm fine with it. I'm fine with there being something behind... It's not interfering
with anything. It's not... It doesn't choose people. There's no chosen people or anything.
It's not like... But if it doesn't... It can't interfere with this universe,
well, yeah. You can't debunk that. So I'm fine with deism. But that would be my duality.
That would be your religion of choice, deism. Yeah.
Okay. Wow. That's good. Yeah. I think so. In high school, I remember talking about God and
some girl said, I believe God died. I was alive, but he died a long time ago. And I was like,
wow, that's a cool sci-fi script. Like that was like, that's interesting. Imagine God dying.
That's it. Yeah. Because we don't know this universe that we're experiencing. Why is there
something rather than nothing? And why is there a life that can experience and view things and
think of things? So it makes you wonder, if there is some sort of mind behind it,
what makes you think it's perfect, powerful? It could be flawed. Maybe it could die.
We don't know what it is. We haven't decided. We haven't established any of that. We just assume
that it's biblical. But what makes you think it's biblical? It could be something else.
Yeah. I know. And then when you think like... I've had conversations with Muslim apologists
on TikToks. TikToks. Oh my gosh, the wine. The wine. But I've had conversations and they go,
where do we come from? And I'm like, I don't even know if asking what happened before the Big Bang
is a sensical question. I don't even know if you can even ask that question. I don't even know what
question to ask in order to find the answer. They will say that God is the necessarily starting
point that God created the universe and otherwise we get into an infinite regression. But it's like,
why say that God created the universe when we can just say who created God? I believe the universe
came from the same place you believe God came from. And then you think, if there is a God,
how does he not know something's above him? We don't know something's above us. Why doesn't
this God know something's above him? It could be a loop of who knows.
And I think that's the crux of it. I see the new subscribers. Thank you very much.
That's the crux of it. It's like, I'm happy in my life saying I'm not sure. I don't have an answer
I feel so good. I don't have a dog in the race anymore. I'm not a Christian. I'm not a Jew.
I'm not a Muslim. I have nothing in the race. I'm just trying to find out what the truth is.
There's a freedom from that. It's like the shackles are lifted. You don't care anymore.
You're not trying to look for evidence that fits your narrative. You're just looking for things that
are true. There's something about that that feels good. If there's a word that I could use to describe
my deconstruction process and the look into all this stuff, if there was some word that combined
the word heartbreaking and ecstatically exciting, that would be somewhere in between. For me,
deconstruction was like, oh my gosh, I'm moving away from this thing that was so sacred to me,
but it's not like a choice. It's like, I can't not see what I've seen, but it's also like,
I was so excited to learn about things. I remember when I bought my first fossil, I was like,
this fossil is like, it was like $60 at Australia Zoo, you know, Steve Irwin,
it's down the road from my house. I had our old roommate used to work there.
And I bought this fossil. I was like, this is actually 60 million years old. I bought it for
$30 or something. And I was like, what? This is so weird to me that I'm just holding something in
my hand that's just like 60 years old. I can't even imagine that because I have a coin from
Constantine behind me. Oh, wow. Yeah, it's actually a real coin from the Constantine era.
Wow. Even holding that in my hand, I'm thinking like, somebody touched this that lived this long
ago. That's crazy. Like, that what you're saying is even crazier than that. Yeah. I'm going to have
to look into buying a Constantine coin. That's so cool. Yeah. Nitty said, where the fuck, where
the absolute fuck is the one case sub party? So great question. I am doing, I am doing a charity
stream. But we have to get, obviously, the point is to raise money for charity. And two things,
I need to organize, I'm going to organize guests, games, like, I'm going to bring subs on, especially
like some of my, especially people like, like, you know, you guys in the sub that come from
Miffish and like, and also like the locals here, Dean, everyone else, like,
you know, like you guys, like, I want to bring you guys on. I want to have conversations. I'll
be going for like 12 hours straight. We're going to be, it's going to be great, but we're going to
be raising money. So I need to first be able to get the money to be able to give to these charities.
So like, super chance and things like that. I'm going to also create games. So it's like,
certain goals, you know, ways I can punish myself or do things that or get certain guests on if we
reach certain goals. So it is coming. But first, it's Google saying it's going to take
quote, about a month to review my channel. I don't know why it says that, like why it
takes so long, but that's where it's up to. So when that's done, I'm in the process of
planning things at the moment. All my attention at the moment though, he's going to, of course,
the Bible panel on slavery. But thank you for asking and thank you for reminding me to say that.
So, and so do we have any questions in the chat? Let me just have a quick look.
Guys, tag at Deep Drinks if you do have a question. Otherwise, I'll ask my last question.
By the way, nitty is a cool, nitty is awesome. Nitty is a good part of this community.
Nitty is nitty. Yeah. Nitty's been on the channel before. Yeah. I saw that one actually.
Okay. Cool. Swift C said, in spite of your unbelief, is there anything good or beautiful
that you find about Christianity? I'll let you answer, then I'll answer.
In spite of your unbelief, is there anything good or beautiful? Actually,
so there's two authors that write about this topic. One of them is Van Loon. The other one's
in Nietzsche. And they believe that the idea of equality, the idea that this, like to like
ignore the hierarchy, ignore this like idea that there's kings and nobles and slaves on the bottom,
the idea of like people should be equal actually comes from Christian like ideas,
Christian. And so if, you know, there's some truth to that, like the book of Acts,
chapter five says that if you become a Christian, you should take all your wealth, sell your house,
take all your funds, throw out of the feet of the apostles, and then live in communal lifestyle
with the rest of the community. And so those ideas of like making society equal for people,
that is a good idea. So if that's true, if we do get our ideas of equality from that,
that would be great. The problem is Christians today don't live up to that. Christians today
are living, the Christians today are all about like voting for the guy that gives us the best free
market that we can make money in the least amount of taxes. So they're all backwards now. But
it's so true. Yeah, I think, I think if I can go back to like the early ideas of like communal
lifestyle, then I would say that those are good ideas. Yeah. Great, great point. I like that as well.
Oh my gosh, I'm, I'm doing really well at this being sober thing. But the, so for me,
two things. One, I absolutely, absolutely love, there's a lot of things about Christianity I love
actually. When I read the Christian scriptures, even though I don't have a deep connection to
to it anymore, I, oh my gosh,
I'm going to keep looking for this. But I get a deep appreciation for the scriptures. And I get
this deep feeling of like something greater. So my favorite scripture is one genre triggered out,
that we just from the beginning, which we have heard that we have seen with our eyes,
which we have looked at with our hands of touch, is we were claimed concerning the word of life
that life appeared. We have seen that and testified to it. And we proclaim to you the eternal life,
which is from the father that has appeared to us. We proclaim to you and we have seen and heard,
so that you may have fellowship with one with us and our fellowship is with the father and the
son Jesus Christ to make our joy complete. This is the message that you've heard from him and
declare to you God is light in him. There is no darkness at all. If we claim to have fellowship
with him and yet walking darkness, we lie and do not live in the truth, live out the truth.
But if we walk in the light as he's in the light, we have fellowship with one another and the blood
of Jesus like his son purifies us from all sin. If I'll just finish it. If we claim to be without
sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sin, he is faithful
and just to forgive us of our sins and purify us of all unrushedness. If we claim we have not sinned,
we make him out to be a liar and the word and his word is not in us. I love that. I don't believe
it. I don't believe it's true. But to me, something in me feels something come to life when I read
that. But that isn't like I said, when I read the Quran, that came out of me as well. And when I read
when I read the Bhagavad Gita, that also came out of me. Oh, that's that's one I've read too.
That's the song. Yeah, that's the where he tells Carl Arjun, the prince where yeah, like you I don't
want to go to work. It's my uncle. Christian is like, you have to. It's it's the fate. Fates have
decreed that you must and it's for the better. It's like something weird about that that makes you
like think this is some deep ancient stuff right here. Yeah, that was a good I didn't know you were
going to have to go there. That's not that's the same copy I have. I have the same translation.
Dude, this this this author and his audible translation of this is just amazing. So because
I read out a little bit of the little bit of the Bible. Yeah, dude. And I had this one, too.
This is the one Buddha, the Dhammapada, the collection. Bro, these are some good reads,
though. Honestly, honestly, I've got a few punishments. Yeah. And I've gone out to Akhnath
Ishwan for these translations, dude. He crushed it and he gives a commentary every other page.
Yeah, commentary. It tells you how to break it down. It's really beautiful. So when I was in,
let me just paint the picture for you. My wife and I are in Bali. We're drinking margaritas or
drinking different type of cocktails poolside next to some, you know, on the rooftop of some
of our hotel. And I'm sitting there with my headphones in and there's like techno, like
it's like playing on the speakers outside. But in my headphones, I'm listening to the
back of my kids on audio book and I can slightly hear the second. And I'm a little drunk. I've
just gotten out of the pool. I'm sitting there and I'm listening to this and it just hit me.
It hit me like a tongue, a ton of bricks. That's buggy buggy to chapter nine. I thought it was
chapter six. Verse 16. I am the ritual and the sacrifice. So this is Krishna talking to Arjuna
talking about ocean. I'm the ritual and the sacrifice. I am the true medicine and the mantram.
I am the offering and the fire which consumes it. I'm the one to whom it is being offered.
I'm the father and mother of this universe and it's grandfather too. I'm the entire, I'm getting
goosebumps. I am its entire support. I am the sum of all knowledge, the purifier, the syllable om.
I am the secret scriptures, the rig, the yaju and the sum Vedas. I am the goal of life,
the Lord and support of all, the inner witness, the abode of all. I am the only refuge, the one
true friend. I am the beginning, the staying and the end of creation. I am the womb and the eternal
seed. I am heat. I give that. I give and withhold rain. I am immortality. I am death. I am what is
and what is not. Like I just- That's 300 years before Jesus too by the way. That's what it was.
Yeah. I think I looked at, I was like, am I reading, is this, sorry, did this just
whack open to a psalm and like or a- That was just what I was going to say. Yeah, it's a same idea.
Yeah. So is there anything good I can find about Christianity? Pragmatically hunt lots of stuff.
It's just that I like to also point out the negatives of it.
And also of other religions. So that was a long answer to a question.
Yeah. No, it's fun to read this stuff because it's ancient knowledge and ancient,
it's just stuff that people looked up to and thought of as like special knowledge, ancient
wisdom. So when I read it, I'm thinking about the people that revered this stuff. I'm thinking
about the history behind it. And there's something about that that fascinates me, you know?
Yeah. And for me, it's, for me, I get this emotional reaction to it like this,
this like, this like chest is gut feeling. I just don't attach a truth claim to that.
Like my wife's, my wife, who I'm trying to get to come on this channel more often and, you know,
and, and I keep making jokes that people are going to invite her onto the channel because
she reckons her ideas are useless. And I'm like, no, they're actually really important.
She said that when she would go to musicals, she would have the exact same feelings that she'd
have in church because she loves musicals. Yeah. So like, I often say like, my wife has spiritual
experiences of musicals. That's what those Bacchics were getting at with the reverie thing,
with the mania, the, the Platon is called the divine mania. It's like this idea of when you're in
like a concert or the musical atmosphere, you just feel the spirit, like it's, so there's,
there's some science behind it. Like there's something going on where you're in a crowd of
people and you're all doing the same thing and dancing and singing. There's something that
happens. There's something there. I wonder if I should tell like a spiritual, how's everyone
going? We've got time for me to tell like random anecdotes. I've got time. What is everyone else
drinking? I'm going through the comments, I'm trying to find questions, but I remember this one
time we listened, I went to a Planet Shakers conference, right down in, in Melbourne. No,
it would have been Brisbane, Brisbane. And Jurgen Matessius was preaching. He's a pastor.
And his preach was like, whatever, like, whatever. But at the end, the band came on and it was a
big show. Like, and I, I just felt, I felt what I said was God's say to me, you need to go down
and repent for XYZ or something, right? I was like, okay, the God I had in my head was quite,
you know, like he wanted, he wanted to make sure you were all good, all good. So I went down to
the front and around the auditorium, they had to push out because there was so many people who
registered for this conference, they had to push out the back walls and everything. And it was like
a 360 degree rotation view of like everyone looking down at this like platform. And we,
we all went down the front and I was on my knees and I was speaking in like what I can only describe
as like a weird form of tongues. Like it was like, do you know when you get into that? You can speak
in tongues and like just, I could do it now. I did it on the stream the other night and you can
speak in tongues and it's like, okay, like you're speaking in tongues, like, or whatever. But when
you really feel the emotional experience happening and then you speak in tongues, it can be like a,
you're, you're a former Pentecostal. So you would know, right? Like, yeah. So yeah, it's like a
different experience. And so I spoke in these, and I remember looking over, over to my left
and two people down, I saw my younger brother who was there for the first time on his knees,
also praying and crying. So I'm crying, speaking in tongues, praying, crying or whatever. And it
was like this really weird, just like feeling. Later that night, I get this text message from
a friend. Hey, bro, I saw the Lord's angels tonight. And I was like, what do you, what? I was like,
what do you mean you saw the Lord's angels? And he's like, yeah. And he's like, they were,
there was a big vision of the cross that came on stage. And these angels were flying to the,
they'll, they'll anticipating it all night and they're flying around the stage. And then they
went to the base of this cross and they picked up pools of blood in their hand from the bottom of
this cross. And then they were going around and flicking it on all the people who were bending
over at the front and praying and in tongues. And I was like, whoa, I was like, because I thought
like he was talking like he thought of them or dreamed of them or something. But he's like,
no, I physically saw them. I was like, well, that's crazy. So yeah, wild, wild experiences, right?
Now, people ask me like, how do you rectify that? Like, how do you, how do you rectify that these
days? Well, I guess I don't, is the first thing. I also don't know if that's a testable, like,
whatever. I know other religions have experiences like that all the time. And I know that and
yeah, like it's, it's a wild experience. I just don't attach a truth claim to that experience.
Like, right. These are, for me, it's like, it's like, this is a very strong emotional reaction
that I'm having to something. The brain, the brain is, yes, I actually had a DMT experience
a long time ago, where I swear, I'm not kidding. I experienced something that looks similar to like
a Hindu God, because he had multiple hands and the head was spinning around and it like flew up
at me with the smoke all around it. And like, I was, it was called, you know, they call it a
breakthrough when you're on like, yeah, this was another level experience. And I'll never forget
it. It changed, man. That, that DMT experience made me change my life. It's like part of the
reason why I'm into all this stuff, because I'm trying to figure out like, where's everyone else
lining up with these? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Because there, those experiences are real.
People who have religious experiences, there's something happening. The point is, like, what
is it that's happening in the brain that causes this stuff? For me, it was the DMT. That wouldn't
have happened without taking DMT. Of course. Yeah. But like, but still, I can see why people
feel that, that that sense of some sort of like spiritual awakening or whatever you want to call
it. There's something about that. Yeah. And like, I believe they're real as well. Like, I believe,
like, they definitely happen. It's just whether or not what people are scribing to them is true,
right? Like, someone can have a psychedelic experience and see aliens. I have a friend who did
this. Mind you, I do like to preface this with, I have friends who have overdone psychedelic
experiences and then ended up in mental institutions, like, and not good time. I think I don't
advocate people use psychedelics on my stream at least. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's not, it's not a,
it's something that's like, you know, it's a subjective experience. It's not objective, right?
But for people who've done it, they have these experiences. And I, you know, a friend of mine,
you know, he saw aliens in his, I don't think the aliens were there, but I don't deny the
fact that he saw these aliens. I have a friend. The experience that it just, the drug was in it.
Yeah, yeah. What is it? The one of the, I have a, I have a family member who went to a prayer
meeting for some Tibetan thing. It was, it was not Christian at all. It was like a Tibetan thing.
I've got what it was specifically, but they all fell over in what sounded like Holy Spirit.
Praying for each other, laughing, falling over like gig, like it was like, it was that hysteria
that you can get in a Pentecostal environment. And I remember they telling me this when I was,
I'm telling me this when this is a family member I trust, right? And like a very close family member,
like not like a second cousin or a cousin even, a direct family member who told me this. And I was
like, oh, and, and they told me this. And they told me the night that it happened, though, like
they like came home like this happened. And it was from a religion that was definitely not
Christianity. And I remember thinking to myself, oh, those devils are getting crafty. Like those are
the demons are now they're even imitating what we experienced in the true religion,
the Christian church. So yeah. And, and also, what is it one of the Beatles, he used to say,
what's the purpose of a God if you can't physically see them and touch them. So he and he would say
that I got this from Iran, right? He would say that he would chant the mantras of Krishna into
a Krishna or Peter. George Harrison. Yeah, Peter to him in physical form. Look,
the brain is a wild place. Let me just say that. And if anyone wants to see, if you go back to the
episode with Miss Lemon, we talk about placebo effect a little bit and we talk about what the
brain can do. But it's crazy. So Titan, Iran said, does DI think it's it's fair to say that Christianity
that includes Trinity beliefs is a de facto, you know, theistic? Oh, does GI mean? Maybe GI. Yeah,
I think it's very good. That includes Trinity belief is de facto, he know, theistic. Yeah. Sure.
I mean, I don't. Trinity belief, he know, theistic. Yeah, I guess, right? Isn't that what
you know, the, isn't that what that means? He know, theistic belief in
Oh, it's the word of a single Supreme God. I'm thinking, okay, so no, but no. Yeah, because
you're, well, it's weird because the Trinity is one, but three inside of it. So it's just one of
mind bender things like, because he know, theistic is the worship of a single Supreme God that does
not deny the existence of a possible existence of other deities. But we have three with inside that.
So I don't know. That's a, that's a brain buster, I guess, from Titan Uranus.
Michael Jones has Tik Tok, where he, he says, um, this is why I told him to,
to challenge, to do a review of our thing. He, um, he, he, he said, this is what, this
Christians who don't believe in the Trinity and it's like him picking, picking a cherry
of a tree. And it's like, this is what Christians do when they say they don't believe in the
Trinity and he picks a cherry of the tree. So cherry picking. Um, and I said, um, and I replied
and I said, did you pick one cherry or one cherry? That's actually three cherries. That's
actually one cherry, but three cherries in one, but you know, and every one is still one pick though.
It's the one. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And no, he, he, he laugh react. He like thought it was funny.
Um, um, what do you and Neil think would happen if Jesus, so this is, sorry,
Ashura's orchids comment, what would happen if Jesus were to come back from the dead
and see the actions of his followers? What might you think, um, or do about the antithesis of his
word? Well, first of all, that, that, that, um, requires me to speculate on what Jesus
actually thought and thinks and what his ideas are. Now, my personal thoughts are he's kind of a
cynic, uh, middle plain as a Jewish as well thinker. And that's why he got killed because he was a
heretic. So I think that that's my personal. I'm not getting that from any scholars. It's just
my personal, uh, speculation on what Jesus was like. So if he'd come back and I think he might
have been like sort of, uh, equality, egalitarian type too. And I think he would look at all these
Christians today and say, dude, you're, you're looking up that you want Trump to be your fault,
your leader. He has nothing to do with me. Like that, I think he would re, rebuttal all that
shit. That's what I think you would do. You know, but that's that also, like I said, that requires
me inserting my own thoughts of who Jesus might have been. You know, there's this, um, when I was
a kid in, in Australia, um, there was this, um, this, this movie called rabbit proof fence.
And it's a story of, uh, it's a story of, um, let me just find it. It's a story of this like
young Aboriginal woman who goes through, this is like this fence that goes all along the
Australian border to keep rabbits out. Not Australian border. I think New South Wales
is a big story. She watched the movie and she said, that wasn't my story. Like, so the actual
person was like, that had nothing to do with my story. And that was like in the same lifetime,
people who knew her and could talk to her and they made this, I think Jesus would come back
and he would find it indistinguishable from what he was teaching Jews. Jesus was a Jew,
first and foremost, first and foremost. And I think what he was teaching is very different to
especially what you see today with like the prosperity gospels and things like that.
Yeah, for sure. For sure. Um, we've got a, got a question from,
got a question from Dr. Kip Davis. Um, should, um, Asprey students get tuition refunds for
all the instructional time that they are missing because of the revival?
Yeah. So, so yes. So there's a, if, if those who don't know, there is currently a revival
going on in, in this, um, in Asprey, um, which is, which is pretty wild. I'd like to, to, um,
to talk a little bit about it or like to, to do an investigation on it. Revivals are an
interesting, interesting thing. Um, God, there's this book that I, I never finished,
but I'm going to ask the author to come on called Beyond Belief. And it's, um,
Pentecost Christianity and taking over the world. And it's an exploration into, um,
the, the Pentecostal movement and like how that is like actually, um, let me just, um,
let me just remove this. I would absolutely love to, um, interview the, the hosts and not the
host, the author of this book. Um, she, Ellie Hardy, she is, she, um, I remember telling her
about, she's a cool, cool person. I remember telling her about, um, she's been, she was on the
Hillsong documentary that recently came out, the big hit piece on Hillsong. And I remember
like tweeting to her and I said, like, Hey, like I had friends that were in Hillsong, Sydney,
that, that were in training to be in the band and all the band would go out like afterwards,
not all the band, sorry, members of the band would go out afterwards after church on Sunday
and be doing cocaine at parties and stuff. And, um, and I'm thinking like, oh, you know,
I'm blowing the, you know, I'm like crushing it, right? I'm like, I'm telling, I'm like dropping
bombs. I'm Edward Snowden. And she just replies, well, it is Sydney and I just loved it. Like,
and, and since then, like huge fans, she's, her book is fantastic. Um, I really wish there was
an audio version because I struggled to actually read as like I said, maybe dyslexic, but you know
that we're on opposite sides of the globe, Australia and New York are, are exactly on the
opposite side of the world. Oh, wow. Like North, South and East and West were literally,
if I cut through the whole, I'll get to Australia. If I cut a whole through the world,
wait, I swear, if you want to pull up Google Earth, yeah, but I mean, that's if you, that's
if you're telling you, it's right. It's, it's, if it's not, it's close. I might be in the ocean,
but it's very, yeah, but have you, have you researched flat earth because obviously
obviously that's not, yeah, no, but I'm David Litt was one of my, uh, one of the scholars
from my channel. He's from Australia and it's always hard to schedule this, but like it's
literally the opposite side of the world completely. Like if you cut, if I drilled a hole through
the entire earth from here to down through, I would get close to you. Isn't that kind of weird
of mind blowing? Like you and I are live right now talking. Yeah. Zach's opposite side of the
planet is me. It is wild. Like we're doing more Jesus right now.
Kip Davis did point out that Swifty had another question. I sorry, I missed it. This is why we
want super chats guys because like I'm hard enough to find. Um, question. How do you think, um, oh
my gosh, can you read it out? You go back in time to when Jesus and his disciples are alive.
What do you ask them? Interesting. I would ask them.
What do you get so much? Yeah, if I could speak Aramaic, right? Yeah, I would say, okay, can you
guys admit right now and write this down on paper if Jesus does not come back in the next 40 years?
Because he just, he just said, you guys heard him say it. He's going to come back in his glory
before some of you die. Well, will you guys admit if he doesn't come back in that time period,
this is false? Write it down, sign it right here. And then they'll, I'll have that piece of paper
and then the next generation will come along and say, this is what they said. He didn't come back.
So it's over. That's how I get them just like that. I just agree. I don't think it would be over.
Okay, so I've got a hypothetical I'm going to run by you, right? Yeah. And I want everyone in the
chat to listen to this. And I want you to, I'm going to give you like 10 seconds to write a
response. Okay. And I want everyone to be ready. Have your fingertips ready to write a response
to this. Okay. And this is a Joe Rogan question, but this is a question I might make a video on
because I thought about it on the way to where I was going to go to the bottle, but I didn't
because we had read one time. But anyway, I digress. Let's say the years I want everyone to
even close your eyes or even just think deeply, but get ready to type your answer because I'm
only going to wait 10 seconds. The years 2033. So in 10 years time, there is a manuscript that's
found that can be reliably and accurately dated to before the epistles of Paul. So it's the earliest
manuscript that we have in this manuscript. It has explicit instruction like information about
Jesus's body being removed from the tomb and hidden by a disciple. It gives the reasons.
It gives the author who's writing it and it's one of Jesus's disciples. And it says that Jesus's
body was removed from the tomb in order to show that there was a resurrection or to pretend that
there was a resurrection. It goes into the ideas around that the disciples and followers of Jesus
were saying like, oh, and we've started to notice that people are saying that they saw Jesus resurrected,
but that can't be the case because we removed his body. They remove his body. It's all written down.
It's all perfect. And they put it in a tomb and it says, if you go to this location, you'll find a
tomb. Let's say archaeologists go to that tomb. They dig it up. They find a man there with the same
injuries that you would expect someone that they've been crucified of.
It's the first century Al-Qaeda.
First century and it has like a sign that says Jesus of Nazareth, this is the body in the stone
and everything. Yeah. It's the stone that says we hid this body here in order to protect our
sacred father. And it can all be verified by carbon dating, by archaeology, by phylogeny,
by every... Every second is like this being legit.
Everything points to what is the most accurate representation. It is the most accurate thing
we have from the first century. Now, this is the question. I want you to write down how much of the
Christian world would immediately change their beliefs. Like, give me a percentage.
50.
You reckon 50. Okay.
I'd say half of them say, whoa, that's it. He's done. He died and never came. The other half would
say, well, it's just his body. So maybe the spirit rose up and then the spirit came down.
Here, his body doesn't mean anything. It'd be half.
Okay. Write your percentage down.
Zero.
I have a zero percent.
Right. It might still find a way to bounce around it. You're right.
My wife said, oh, no. 50. Someone said 50. Five percent.
Oh, I know. It's 20 percent.
Not all of them. That's for sure. There's no way it's 100. It's, it's, yeah, at 50 years.
I don't think it matters.
Yeah.
Five percent, 30 percent.
Point is Christians would remain still Christians. That's the point.
Five percent. Yeah. Which, which makes me wonder.
Does it matter?
It doesn't matter.
About the evidence that they say, like, well, we know Jesus rose from the dead because of the evidence.
But then when you go, okay, like this is what I, this is the problem I have with apologetics.
Zero. This is the problem I have with apologetics. Now, obviously this is,
this is just people's opinions, but to me, 10 percent of unsaved Christians.
So to me, this is the problem with apologetics.
No one goes, oh, well, I became a believer in Jesus Christ.
Well, sorry, I'll correct it.
Most, I don't know anyone who said I became a believer in Jesus Christ.
When I read all the arguments for and against Christianity and I just saw Christianity was the
best. They usually brought up Christian. They usually have an exterior motive to become a Christian.
They usually have a spiritual experience. They usually get saved from drug abuse or,
or they have a spiritual encounter or something.
And then they go looking for the evidence.
And that's the problem I have with apologetics is no one becomes a Christian because of apologetics.
Thank you, Anthony, for subscribing.
I'm going to check the subscribers in a second.
Thank you.
Interesting, right?
It is.
But you're right, because it would, it would ultimately end up with just,
they would get through it, apologetics.
The point of apologetics is to address the tough questions and find out and not,
not try to debunk it or disprove it, but find a satisfying answer for it.
Any satisfying answer to whatever tough questions thrown at them.
And then as soon as they figure out what the best course of action is against that tough question,
that becomes the apologetic, that tradition that goes on.
So the apologist teaches the next apologist and they keeps getting,
it gets more and more refined.
That's why today, apologists have an answer for everything.
They've had, they've had 2000 years to think about this shit,
passed down from generation to generation.
So anything you throw at them, they're going to give you some word salad,
mumbo jumbo shit to respond to it.
That's, that's the nature of apologetics.
There's an answer for anything.
You know?
I, I, I remember, you know, there's a lot of,
I get in conversations with a lot of Muslim apologists on TikTok,
like I jump on them and I, and I always ask them like,
like they say like the Quran is scientifically perfect.
And I say like, but like it says, doesn't it say that Muhammad,
do you believe that Muhammad split the moon in two?
And then they have all these reasons why, well, if he's God,
so God can do anything.
So even though that would have disrupted, totally disrupted earth's like gravitational force and
like totally caused tsunamis all over the world.
And like, and although that no other society on earth saw that,
except for the one Muslim bloke in India who is, it's like, you know,
scholars like scoff at the idea of him being like reliable anyway.
Like besides all those people and all those things like that,
like it's still scientific.
I'm like, well, no, that's your like, like,
you can't say the Quran is scientifically accurate and that it,
the moon in two was, the moon was split in two by Muhammad as he flew there,
I think on a horse, but like, yeah, yeah.
Like you can't say like it's scientifically accurate.
And then when you, when someone comes up with an expert, like,
well, this doesn't seem accurate.
And they go, well, he's God, he can do anything.
Like it's like, that's not an answer.
Like that's like, what?
But what it does is pandas to people who don't want to actually investigate these things.
So someone grows up Muslim or they're married into a Muslim family and they're like,
or a Christian family and they go, oh yeah, cool, cool.
And they're like, and then someone brings up a problem.
They go, oh, I don't like that.
And they go looking for the answer.
Guys, let's, before we wrap up, let's do, for those who haven't subscribed,
make sure you subscribe because we have that panel coming up.
I'm going to check the, I'm going to show the subscribers in a sec.
We've had a few more people subscribe, which is really awesome.
And also make sure you go subscribe to Gnostic Informant.
Links in the description.
His stuff is, is just like crazy cool.
And I'm going to be on his channel soon.
What are we going to talk about when I come on your channel?
We can do that.
I'm sure we'll think of something.
There'll probably be something similar to this.
There might be something right, you know, we'll think it's up.
Yeah, it would be cool to do.
It could be cool to do like, you know,
Pentecostal Ministry horror stories or something.
Like, oh my God, do you want to see a video of my old pastor?
I do.
Yes, bring it up.
But I also only a couple of minutes.
It's only a minute long or two.
And then we could finish on that.
Yeah, that'd be great.
This could be our next topic for the next video
of like our experiences in church.
So, so I just say you're aware too.
I let me just pop it up on Facebook.
Guys, I let me know if you're liking this kind of stream.
You know, it's it's I'm trying to be casual,
but also like we're just kind of hanging out at this stage.
But I messaged Derek because I saw that you're going on his channel.
And I was, oh my God, curious.
I found old videos of myself as a Christian in church,
spitting that fire as a Christian.
So I want I want I want Christians who are Christians right now
to see if you're at my level when I was four years ago.
Because I was I was spitting that apologetic fire, bro.
I'm going to show you people like,
listen, all your shit that you think I've been there.
And plus more, I was better than you.
I was I was more convincing than you were.
And I'm still I still came out of it.
That's what I was like.
That's the goal of that episode.
So I was talking about the tree of knowledge
and how technology is killing everybody.
Like it was it's so cringy, dude.
It's so cringy, but I have it.
I found it all.
I found it.
So myth vision.
Yeah, I'm so glad you did because myth.
So, you know, I knew you were going on your channel.
I was like, cool, cool, cool.
But then I saw what it was about, right?
Cringing at our all selves.
I got really pissed off.
It's called it's called we were so cringe.
Hang on, let me just share it.
It's called we were so cringe, right?
And I was like and I messaged I messaged Derek.
And I said, how dare you?
How dare you do this stream and not invite me?
And I was like, why look at and then I and then I was like, look.
And I said and I said, I didn't say this, but I was like, you know,
part of my resume knows that if you get stoned by one,
you can die.
You pretty much will die.
Well, this fall, I get stoned by six box jellyfish.
He's not a.
This is me as a youth.
Youth Christian.
He does.
I can see it now.
Now I see the pain for your son.
He's dying.
So she started praying and then she.
So look, Derek said, maybe we can have you pop on.
I'd love to pop on if I can make the time work.
Because I, I will take the award for the cringiest of I have to.
No, no, no, wait, wait.
Wait till you see what I got.
Wait, guys, what I got.
It's going to be so cringy that everyone is going to have to put
on their gas mask for it.
It's going to be, it's that bad.
Like, so don't just go to Mithvision as well.
And she went on or something.
That was weird, bro.
Even watching myself.
I was like, what are you talking about, dude?
I'm going to get through it though.
I'm going to let people see it.
I think it's worth it because it shows people.
Look, I've been there.
I've been where your mind is at and I've got,
I've worked my way out of that.
So you should listen to what I'm,
that's my whole goal of that video is to show people your
shit that you're thinking I've been there.
Well, I'll do my best to, if I can come along and show some
cringy clips, I would absolutely love to come as well.
And I'm going to put you guys just to pop in.
I'm not going to take over the stream.
But let's show your last clip.
Can you share it or?
Yeah, it's on the bottom already.
No, yeah.
All right.
Can you see it?
Yeah.
Trump, for he that bit of them Godspeed by his vote
is an apartaker of his evil deeds.
I get inside that booth and I draw that curtain
and this is not the Wizard of Oz.
My father sees right through the curtain.
And when I pull that lever, if I pull that lever
for one of those D's that hates my father,
and hates this real and is for communism
and kills little babies.
My father is recording, watching,
and will hold me accountable for that one day.
You can't vote for a Democrat and be a Christian.
According to the Bible.
So what's, what would happen?
You know what he would do?
He'd vote for Donald Trump.
And you know what his lesson to you is?
One of the last things he said when he rose from the dead.
Go to John, chapter 21.
Donald's middle name is John.
Can I just, can you just pause it?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
He certainly has grabbed the evangelicals
right by the pussy, hasn't he, Donald Trump?
Oh my God.
This guy had a plaque on his wall in his,
in his side room with a, I don't know if it was an email
or a letter from Trump with the signature on the bottom.
He had it plaqueed.
He had it like, he had it on a plaque.
Like it was like, oh look, Donald Trump, it knows me.
He noticed me.
He's, he's got a, he's got a really nice knit sweater.
That's what I will say.
Yeah, yeah.
This guy, this guy was out there.
There's actually, it actually gets worse.
So listen, I'm going to skip ahead a little bit.
And it is for a rich person.
You go to break down.
That's what happened.
Oh wait.
According to the Bible.
Oh no, that's, that's it.
That's it.
I ended up talking about it.
That was one of my first videos.
Yeah, but he, okay.
The clip I was looking for that I can't find.
And I will find it for Derek Stream.
He goes, this is what he says.
This same guy that you just saw.
And I promise you, I will find the clip.
It's, I have it somewhere in my old computer.
He said, if I took an AK-47 right now, and I shot everybody,
every one of you in the crowd, turned it on myself and killed myself,
I will wake up in heaven because I'm saved.
That's the type of theology and mentality that, that guy has.
He's the chosen.
Look, I have that clip.
I just don't have it with me right at the second,
but I will find it before I go to Derek Stream.
That's for sure.
Cause I, and I've, I've shown it on my channel before.
Some people might have, and some people watching might have heard this before.
That's crazy.
I've shown this before.
I have, I have it.
I will find it.
So it's true.
Yeah.
He said that shit.
That was one of the last times I went there.
I was like, this guy's nuts.
I'm out of here.
So yeah, that's, that's, that is wild.
It's hard to like, people can make anything, believe anything.
I do.
Some people have asked me to reply to Anthony Monzano's question.
Thank you for asking the question.
David, you know, it's weird.
I'm still Catholic, but I'm starting to question if Jesus actually existed.
I'm starting to ask for physical proof bones, DNA testing, specifically science is that bad.
No.
So first of all,
okay.
Hmm.
When I was deconstructing my faith, now I don't want you to deconstruct your faith.
I don't want you to do anything.
But like my friend Thomas Westbrook says, truth withstands scrutiny.
You should be able to look at the evidence and follow the evidence where it leads.
It will feel bad feeling some facts.
It will feel bad to question your faith because faith is the antithesis of questioning, right?
Like you're trying to, to faith is like the.
It's a certain argument.
It's just, yeah.
It's true because I believe.
And if you don't believe, then it's not true because you don't believe.
You know, yeah.
And I apologize.
Like the bottle of wine is done.
I've got like a, I've got one glass, but so I apologize if I'm not very coherent.
But right, questioning your beliefs is like, I take my hat off to you.
That's like a really hard thing to do.
Most people can't do that.
So the fact that you're wanting physical proof, I don't.
I'm not here to advocate for you to become like anything, right?
But I actually implore you for doing that.
That is fantastic.
Yeah, keep asking questions like that.
Yeah.
For me, when I realized when I was, when I was kind of looking, I'd say deconstructing,
but at the time I didn't realize I was deconstructing.
But for me, what I realized was any true conclusion will lead me to God anyway.
That's what I, that's what I believe, right?
And that's what, that's, that's the step that I was, that was the point that I was convinced of
that got me to be able to examine the evidence as unbiasedly as I possibly could at the time.
So what do I mean by that?
When you look at evidence, you can, you can, you can do two, one or two things.
You can say, how do I rect, how do I rectify this problem?
Like, like I've got a problem, like there is no historical evidence,
but there is no physical evidence of Jesus, right?
That might be your problem.
Like, and that might be something that's playing on your mind.
You can look at what Christian apologists say, or you can go looking for the answer in, in,
with theologians or pastors or something.
I think you should do that.
But I also think you should look at the counter arguments as well.
You should not just go looking for a way to remove the cognitive dissonance that's going on.
But you should, and what I used to call it is taking off my God hat, my God glasses.
I, I, I realized that for me, looking at the evidence, I couldn't go into the evidence assuming
anything.
I couldn't assume my religious beliefs.
I couldn't assume my gender, my race.
Like I had to like, I had to do everything I possibly could to try and remove as much
presuppositions.
I mean, those last two were really presuppositions, but I couldn't really, I had to remove as much of
some, as much subjectivity as possible.
And the reason that I believed that I could, the reason I, I could actually take that first courageous step
was because I, I realized that regardless that, that the truth will always lead to God is what I thought.
It didn't for me.
It might, I might, I'm, I'm still, I'm still always on the journey, right?
Right, right.
But, but, but like for me, it was like, okay, like taking that first step of going, I'm going to
investigate the evidence.
Honestly, intellectually, honestly, I'm not going to presuppose that it's all 100% true.
And I'm going to see what I, what I come up with.
I, I would suggest looking at, if you want some really good Christian perspectives,
Michael Jones does some really good content on this.
I'm not convinced of his arguments, but I would, but, and then, and, and obviously like staying,
sticking around on this channel, looking at apology or something or something.
Apology, apology is fantastic as well.
Apology is his fantastic myth vision, of course.
But just get, don't be afraid to question, don't be afraid to look at the evidence
and just let it come to you without too much judgment.
Don't, don't judge yourself for viewing the evidence.
So that would be my advice.
My favorite, my favorite quote is from, and you asked me this earlier and I gave you a
different answer, but I'm going to change it now.
The Bruce Lee quote, be like water.
Just try to let things, just don't even try to read, don't do anything.
Just let things like go.
Let it go.
Let, let, let, just be, be like water.
Flow, just flow.
Yeah.
See what happens.
See what that takes you.
You know, I, I hope, um, bias in any direction.
That's, that, that's what I mean by that.
That's what I fit.
Yeah.
Don't be biased in any direction.
Yeah.
Um, awesome.
So I think that's the question people, because people,
people are really trying to make sure that you get, get an answer.
And I think that's, I hope that was the one that I was, I'm trying to stand.
So I'm pretty far back.
And to be, to be real with you, if you're looking for that much,
it's a year or not, it doesn't exist.
So take that as you will.
Yeah.
But I mean, and he's like, let me play, let me play devil advocate for the Christian,
right?
Like just because you want physical proof, doesn't mean like it's, it's not likely to exist
even like, even if it was anyone back then, it's not likely to exist.
Who do we really have DNA for besides like people?
We, we know their tomb is here.
Yeah.
I mean, it's hard to get.
If we don't know where Socrates' tomb is, we don't have Socrates DNA.
I mean, people are still trying to, you know, work out the DNA evidence for Stephen Avery,
right?
Like in the making a murderous stuff.
Like it's DNA is a hard thing.
But yeah, like there, there are problems when you look into it.
But what's, what's cool about it is it's exciting.
It's exciting to look into.
Yeah.
And that's what you're thinking of things outside the box.
And that's good.
Keep doing that.
Awesome.
Um, so guys, thank you for all for subscribing.
We, uh, I'm going to show you how much we have now.
Oh, whoops.
Um, we are a little chat going to, you know, yeah, I'm surprised at how many people I'm
like, I'm really happy with how many people are out here.
So guys, we're going to wrap up with one last question I have for not to conform it.
And it's the question that really, really like open my world view up.
But we have reached 1,125 subscribers guys.
Yeah, it has.
It definitely, no, it has gone up by like, like a 10 or something.
Thank you so much for subscribing.
It could have been just a quintet as well.
Oh, no, it's definitely you.
I saw a few of my subscribers in the chat.
That's all.
Yeah.
Um, thank you so much for, um,
Oh, there you go.
Another one.
Yeah.
We went up again.
Hey.
Oh, get the drink going.
I've got to, um, I've got to take care.
We just had a new baby boy, boy Atlas.
Yeah.
I'm gonna be drunk as a skunk while I'm feeding the bottles.
It's always going like the second glass anyway.
Um, D, I don't, I've been trying to click contact you by the way, D, um, uh, on like,
uh, Twitter or whatever.
You've like been a really big, um, part of the community.
I can't find a way to contact you.
You can shoot me a message on Twitter or something.
I'd love to, um, chat with you, um, because you've been real helping up.
As you said, I made it to your moderator.
So, um, yeah.
And, uh, make sure you subscribe to, to see the panel.
And obviously let's watch the myth vision, um, panel
and subscribe to Nossi Conformant.
But with that said, I've got the last big question for you.
Okay.
So regarding your God belief, what, if anything, would change your mind?
Um,
if I, not just myself, because I can always be having a hallucination, but if I walked
outside and me, including everyone else that is in this world, I guess, or in, in just
in New York, I guess, who like, who can see the same sky I'm seeing looked up and it
got, and we saw a physical thing come down and say, Hey, I'm God.
Here's what I want everyone to do and everyone saw the same thing.
And everyone saw the same thing.
We all saw it.
And we all, everyone attested to it.
That would be it.
I know it's asking for a lot, but like seriously, there's that all the time.
Is it really asking for a lot?
No, I don't think it's a lot.
I mean, if there really is a God in control of things, why, why not just do that?
If you want everyone to do something, then tell us.
Yeah.
The one, the one humans write it for you 2000 years ago.
What kind of, what kind of weird shit is that?
Yeah.
What, what I, I will say this, that, um, I do like the, like, you know, for me, like
Christianity was always like, you know, if you mess up this life, that's it.
You're done.
You're done.
You go on, you go on the hell.
You screwed up.
You didn't make the right choice.
You ever wonder what's the difference between if I die physically and I, and I get sent to
another realm in hell, but now I believe, because I can see it.
Like, what's the difference?
So it only counts when you're in the body.
That's the only thing I mean.
It's such a weird thing.
Like, why does that matter?
You know, and it's weird to be eternally tortured where the fire does not stop and
the worm doesn't die.
Well, then you're just sitting there.
Cause you get used to, you wouldn't, you get used to that.
Well, if you have a physical body, no, it makes me not get used to it.
Cause we'll just, we'll, we'll mess with you a little bit.
Like, it's a weird thing to think about that.
It's, it's nonsense.
Yeah.
So to harp on Michael Jones again, to, I mean, that dude needs to start paying me
cause I promote his Christian apologetics so much.
I always say too, that I don't believe he's right.
I just think he's the least wrong.
So, so Michael Jones believes that, you know, people might have another second chance
when they die.
Like, I'll have a second chance too.
Like the only people that are in hell are people who have decided to be there.
And I'm like, okay, that's certain Christians have that like extra belief.
And I commend that.
Like your, your heart's in the right place for even thinking that, you know what I mean?
Yeah, exactly.
Well, that's a great answer.
Thank you everyone for coming out.
I'm blown away that we've got so many, so many people in the watching
and so many people commenting.
Like you guys are an amazing community.
Thank you so much.
I'm going to be working hard at getting someone on before our next episode.
I'm filling the gaps a little bit.
And Dr. Kip Davis, you may be hearing from me soon to say it.
So I'd love to, love to keep this party going.
So thank you so much.
And not to conform at Neil.
Have you got anything else you'd like to say before we go?
No, just check out my channel on YouTube and follow me on Twitter if you want.
Awesome.
Well, if you want to, you want to see the, the, the spiciest of cringe,
make sure to go over to misdivision as well.
See you guys.
Thanks for coming out.
I'll see you guys next time.
Bye.
