Nicole Mitchell was a high school teacher, pastor, and now porn star?
Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcast. Today I have a very unique and special guest, Nicole Mitchell.
You have seen Nicole on Dr. Phil, Jimmy Kimmel, Holly Randall Unfiltered, and many other places.
Her story is inspiring and unique, but also contains elements common to many of us who grew up in a sexually prohibitive environment.
Without spoiling too much, I would like to welcome the amazing Nicole Mitchell to Deep Drinks Podcast.
Welcome Nicole.
Hi, thank you so much for having me, David.
So I first want to apologize formally, because when we first organized to do this, you were one of the first guests that I had on,
and I totally screwed up the dates, and you were ready to go, and I was in bed.
And I woke up to emails, and then I felt it was so embarrassing to me, but I'm so glad you gave me another chance.
Thank you so much for coming on.
I think about every time I go to email a guest now, that time I screwed up.
So thank you for giving me another chance.
You're so welcome. Thanks for being persistent.
Peace out.
So your story is just absolutely fascinating, and you've been on Dr. Filtered to tell it, and you've been on many places.
Holly Randall's amazing podcast, Unfiltered.
But I think I have a very unique kind of perspective, because I kind of grew up in a, I was a pastor as well.
I grew up in the very, very similar, I guess, environments.
So I wanted to kind of get like a kind of raw, unfiltered church perspective from you about your whole journey.
But I would also like, you know, to this just casual conversation between us, like we are just catching up over some drinks,
which brings me to ask the question, what are we drinking today?
I'm drinking electrolyte water.
And I'm drinking electrolyte water as well. I've got a power rate here.
And you know what, originally we were doing coffee, but I was, I was actually happy that you changed it,
because let me tell you, yesterday we had Kip Davis, Dr. Kip Davis on, who's a Bible scholar,
and he wanted to drink rye whiskey straight, and we drank a lot of rye whiskey, and I'm hungover.
So I need a little, so I need a little bit of, I need a little bit of electrolytes, I think.
So I wanted to dive straight into your, into your story, but I want to ask you a question.
You've described your sexuality as healing and sacred.
Has it always been that way?
Oh my gosh, I was so afraid of my sexuality growing up.
I've been taught to fear my body, to fear pleasure, to fear anything related with sex, sexuality, sensuality.
So my entire life I was afraid of it, and try to suppress it, because I was taught that that was the right thing to do.
And it was only until a few years, a few years ago, that I started to like return to my body,
and was wondering like, what is my, what is pleasure to me?
What does feel good to me? Am I safe with my body? Am I safe with my pleasure?
And I was pretty nervous going on that journey.
And now being where I am today, it is like the most beautiful sacred thing in my life.
And I'm so glad I returned home to my sexuality.
Returned home to your sexuality, that's an interesting way to put it.
Obviously, you know, you probably know, you know, growing up in church, the story of the prodigal son, where you, you know, returns home after sinning.
Do you ever feel, so you kind of flip on your head, you say, no, I've returned home from church.
Like I've left that environment.
That's interesting.
Okay. So what, so go into a little bit more detail.
Like what kind of, what kind of environment was it that you kind of grew up in when you were first, I guess, when you're little, I guess, when you were first coming into yourself?
Like how did you, what kind of church, we did grow up in religious, were your parents religious, were you taught religious teachings?
Like what, tell us a little bit about that.
Yes, all the above.
I was raised in a really religious conservative home and community.
I was raised Baptist and very quickly picked up on the messaging of where I belonged as a young girl and woman.
I saw all the women in the nursery or in the kitchen.
No women speaking, no women teaching, no women preaching, that was not acceptable.
And so I very quickly try to become that good girl who they told me to be.
And it was incredibly repressive, suppressive and oppressive where you were exactly who they told you to be.
There was no room for your voice or your economy or your own agency.
And I bought it all the way through.
And I was like the poster child for purity culture throughout the 90s and even into the 2000s, trying to save myself or my husband.
And when I did have sex before marriage, I felt horrible and like a failure and tainted and ruined.
And like, there's a lot of trauma that purity culture and just for my conservative religious upbringing had on me.
So, but for most of my life, I tried to adhere to the dogma that was passed on to me.
Well, yeah, so I remember, you know, I've asked my my friends this myself like my friends like when you know when you're like a teenager and you're not like having sex but you're like doing like hand stuff with people like you kind of
everyone's running around fingering each other and stuff.
Like, but when that when that first when I first started doing that I felt like tremendous amounts of guilt and shame and just felt like I was doing something wrong.
But I talked to my friends like now that I'm I just thought everyone had that experience.
But a lot of my friend my other friends didn't have that experience at all the ones that didn't kind of grow up in that environment.
Did you like, did you like when you first like had sex I was outside of marriage.
Was it was it like a huge amount of shame that came along with it like what can you lead us down that path a little bit about like how I guess that first happened like were you trying to
stay pure until you're married and then you just kind of made a mistake or did you get into a long term relationship or how did that kind of come about.
Yeah, I you know I just want to agree with your point that you know exploring sexuality as a teenager so normal and natural and it's crazy that we shame it and try to punish it or control it in the religious communities,
at least in the ones that I grew up in and so now that I have kids I'm like I'm actually excited for them to have the freedom to explore when they're of age and not carry guilt and shame on into the years and adult years.
But from a very young age I was always very like sexual and I always joked that I was one big hormone with two little feet running around like I just like was a porn dog.
I was always horny I was always turned on I was always thinking about sex like everything they say about guys apply to me guys always think about sex my God always think about sex.
You know guys are always I was always horny so there's no room for my experience as a woman, but I identified with a lot of these like descriptions of male habits or whatever.
And I was so horny and I was so afraid like because if you if you plan on having sex someone that's like premeditation that's like double the sin, not only did you have sex but you're planning on having sex so unfortunately my first sex was so anticlimactic.
I'm like so embarrassed by it.
I would almost say ashamed of it, but I see why I did it was with a guy wasn't even attracted to it was last second it was in the backseat of his car he did his 10 pumps and he was done inside of a condom.
That was it and and but I felt a little bit freer because I didn't plan it.
I didn't like I didn't plan it like whoops it happened whoops God forgive me.
So I horrible versus planning it talking it through that would have added too much my psyche to handle to be that in like that complicit in my own sexuality.
But it's like I'm so embarrassed by the story is nothing glamorous.
Isn't it interesting that like that I can totally like it's the difference between like murder versus premeditated murder like premeditated it's like okay you're going to prison for longer.
It's like but it's it's funny that like you didn't have a chance to really consider consent you didn't really have a chance to consider protection probably like it probably just like you know I mean there was a lot of things that will actually put you in a much more dangerous situation because you had this perspective.
If you had not worn a condom I wouldn't have asked him because that's premeditation that you thinking through what should do I want this person to do.
And I didn't even know what consent was until I was 30 years old I was five years into my then marriage and I first learned about consent and I was horrified.
How can you live 30 years and be married and never know about consent and then I was like outraged and like because at that point my marriage I never said no to my husband because I didn't know I was allowed to.
And I felt so yeah I felt so violated and so I was like that's it my babies will know from the time they are fucking born that they like consent is a thing and my kids are very very aware they're very like.
I didn't say you could touch my body like my like touch your shoulder like come on honey and they're like mom I didn't say I didn't say you could touch my shoulder I'm like you're right like they're so connected to their body and no one gets to touch or interact with it without consent.
You're making you're making so many conservatives furious right now.
You know that you know there's that that there's that idea like you ask consent to like wipe your you change your child's napping and things like that.
There's like that whole idea.
And look I know that the baby can't hear anything and it's kind of like this and I guess I'm silly as to it but it also kind of makes sense in a little way because you kind of prepping them for like.
In a way that you're like that you showing them they have agency over their own body there are no such thing as like that parents can just do whatever they want.
They're their own person absolutely.
Yeah, I have to shout out Derek Lambert from MythVision when I when I told him that I had you coming on he was like he was like I'm so jealous because he shot you an email.
A couple emails apparently a year ago and he said he just said then he just sent a super chat thank you Derek I loved her story and the fact that she's so transparent today.
I'd love to interview her on MythVision.
MythVision is a big channel so I go he's a great guy great friend of mine.
I'm sure that send another email.
Send another email Derek.
And a lot going on a year ago.
But some yeah I bet you've had a lot going you've you've done a lot of like big steps forward even since I've been following you like did you just recently release your first sex like sex scene.
Yeah, re-released I released it.
I don't remember when I released it maybe a year ago but it was only one time and now I'm like I should re-release it it's so good and so authentic.
So I re-released it and because I have a bunch of new followers and most people haven't seen it and I'm like everyone you should see this.
Yeah, I, I, I, because I remember because I haven't I haven't subscribed to your only fans or anything.
I'm not that I'm against it or anything but I've seen what you share on Twitter and I saw I got that image that you sent me like in my sex scene and you like cover the nipples whatever.
And I was like send it to my buddies.
It's like check out when you gasp for deep drinks and like no way that's so cool.
Yeah, because most of the people I have on are like you know we're like you know like Bible scholars and stuff but it was such a different transition.
So, so, so jumping like so when it came to consent I want to talk a little bit about that like how did you not know about consent for the first 30 years of your life like that.
Yeah.
I mean obviously there's a difference I guess between and you can talk as much or as little about this as you want but there's a difference between like your husband saying we're having sex now and then you have to do it versus like just touching him and you don't want him to and then you
have to just let him touch you.
And of course it goes both ways but so can you explore a little bit for us what that what how you didn't know about consent for the first 30 years of your life.
I think it's honestly part of the patriarchy and religious time but I think it's actually part of the plan, a great way to control an entire group of people is to teach them they don't have control over their body.
You literally do not teach them any concept of consent and in fact you go the other extreme and you teach them that they are responsible for what people do to them.
So I was taught I was responsible for how men view me, how men think about me and how men treat about me men were never given the responsibility so I was always trying to cover up or apologize if they did something wrong to me like I would apologize for their harm.
And so when you're constantly taught that and I remember one time I was with this adults that I really respected, and I saw a funny shirt that said not tonight honey and I pointed to Michael that's so funny.
And she's like, Oh, that doesn't, that doesn't matter. You give it when he wants it, like little things like that which made for most people it was a blip on the screen for me that's seared like oh, oh, okay, guess whenever he wants it I have to get okay, okay, good girl script right.
And then it wasn't till five years in my marriage I was with a, I just made a bunch of new girlfriends and they're all married and they're saying how they say no to their husbands all the time and I was like, you say no to your husbands and they all looked at me horrified like you don't say no and I was too embarrassed to admit to what except what I was thinking is I didn't know I could say no.
Like I thought it was like my biblical mandate to be a good wife. I always had to say yes, granted my ex husband is a really good guy.
Good man good heart good energy. And I don't think he ever knowingly took advantage of me but the fact that I, when he ever he asked no matter if I was angry moody frustrated exhausted overwhelmed.
It was an instant yes, because I was taught that and I just wish there had been conversation in our relationship of like, is this what you actually want. Like how do you feel. Are you kind of like make it more equal and centered on one person.
Yeah, and I mean, like, I can totally understand that and I think we I interviewed Alyssa with Alexander draw and she has she's grew up in a really strict Mormon church. They didn't kiss, I don't think before their wedding day they didn't have sex for the one day they got married in the temple she'd never drunk coffee, like really really really strict.
And on her honeymoon she was googling marital rape, because she was being raped essentially. But but but it in a weird way in a weird way they are this is going to sound horrible coming out but in a weird way.
He didn't realize what he was doing either like he there was so both sheltered in and not taught anything about sex at all that both of them became.
They were both had no idea that you could just like that you couldn't just take what you wanted from the other person.
And look, I want to we're up to the section where I'm going to a little Bible Bible reading on deep drinks podcast so.
And one Corinthians chapter seven. So versus versus three the husband should fulfill his marital duties to his wife and likewise, the wife to a husband, the wife's body does not belong to her alone, but also to the husband in the same way the husband's
body does not belong to him alone but also to the wife do not deprive each other, except by mutual consent, and for a time so that you may devote yourself to prayer, then come together again, so that Satan will attempt you because of your lack of self control.
So, when I was a Christian, I read that and I was like, Oh, that's kind of a nice system like you, you know, you give each other the needs but obviously there's a darker side to this scripture and how it's being used by people.
Yeah, so it makes me feel a bit cringe. So, these are some of the things that you kind of like came up against when you became a pastor so right so when you when you became a pastor it was a rebellious
thing for you to do to become a pastor right? Can you tell us a little bit about that?
Yeah, because you know women weren't allowed to be leaders so for me to knowingly premeditate, actively choose to go on and become a leader within my church was like was seen as scandalous, rebellious, dangerous.
And you can imagine if that's how my circle responded to me becoming pastor, you can imagine how they responded to me going on to make porn. But yeah, oh my gosh, there I am. There she is.
I'm sorry to show you, I'm sorry to send you this to you, show everyone, but I just want to show everyone that you are, you were the real deal, you're preaching, you're a pastor, and I have to say your message was kind of nice.
Everyone's in baby.
It was a good message. Everyone's in. I intentionally chose that passage. It's about a eunuch. I've never been taught about this eunuch my entire life and I was in the church three days a week.
This eunuch who was the first person to be baptized into the Christian faith and he was an outsider in every way. He was a eunuch. He was from a different land and there's a third thing that excluded him from being part of the kingdom but he was the first to be included.
And so that sense of precedent that my precedent at preaching sermon was like the very people that you think are excluded from the kingdom are probably the very ones who are in.
So like rethink your religion, rethink your dogma, rethink your beliefs. So even though I cringe at my past life, I do feel really good about the message I taught that day.
Yeah, I like that you can see that you're a good person even back then. Like it wasn't, it had nothing to do with your religiosity or anything.
So you went on to train. Did you training to be a pastor? Do you go to ministry college or do you just get involved in leadership?
I just got involved in leadership at my church for like five years they mentored me into the position and then it's during that time I applied to seminary and then I went to seminary and got my degree afterwards.
Oh really? So what degree did you have?
I just graduated from seminary in 2019. So it wasn't that long ago. And then I started porn like a year later. It's just like life is so crazy.
Wait. What? I didn't know that. That's crazy.
I know most people don't know. I went to seminary so late or so recently. Yeah.
So what was your masters in?
I got it in social justice actually. I was going to get my entrance but which is a four year degree, master divinity, but then halfway like a year in I was like burning out.
I could tell it's kind of on the fumes of my faith like the last remnants of it. And so I changed my degree to a master's in social justice because it was shorter.
I've always had a heart for social justice. And then I got out of there.
So that's super interesting. I want to explore that more. Do you think that you were going? Well, first of all Derek asked a great question as well.
What do you label yourself today? Atheist, agnostic, theist?
Yeah, I would say spiritual. It's so fun. I was talking to my partner. I think if people ask I'd probably say agnostic and he's like I think you're more of a theist.
I'm like, oh, something like I hold it really loosely. I'm just like whatever. I think there is something out there, but I could be wrong is how I view it at the end of the day.
Yeah, and that reason. So I'm just throwing a dart in the dark and see if it is is is that belief is that just more of like a feeling like you know it's not like you've like looked at the arguments and rationalize the perspective of God you just
Yeah, you just have like a sense that there must be something bigger. Yeah, I feel like there's something bigger, whether it's God, whether it's love, whether it's my highest and best self, that's I have no idea.
But I think with anyone who's gone through an extreme life change like I have where you thought you had all the answers and now you think you now you think all of that was bullshit.
I think it makes you hesitant to take to cling too tightly to any new belief so I have my but I hold Lucy to them because I'm like if I was that wrong before I could be wrong again and I'm constantly learning and evolving.
So I just hold Lucy to what I believe now.
Yeah, okay, that makes sense. I've often said that I think I said one time that I would do anything for God I would murder my whole family if God told me to right which is a very strong thing to say.
And the only reason I said it, and this like freaked a lot of people my friends out. The only reason I said it is because they were asking me really like hard questions so I just went to them I see string thing.
Yeah, yeah. And, and of course, of course, my perspective was God would never ask me to do that. And my perspective was which is kind of untrue because he asked Abraham to kill his son.
But God would never ask me to do that. And also, I'd have to really know it's God in which case how could you deny God like how could you deny God of anything.
But so it scares me that I used to think that and now I'm pretty confident in my unbelief. So it's like, I don't, I, it's always like a little like a little like, don't be that confident because you once believes in pretty crazy stuff.
So if you know, always be willing to test, evaluate your beliefs and things like that.
One of my course students said to me recently in one of my courses, it really resonates she said and she quoted someone else but the quote was something like the older I get, the more I care about mystery rather than mastery.
And how I feel it's like the older I get the more I lean into the mysterious and it's not about mastering it like I used to.
That's cool. That's, that's really cool. Do you think, do you think going to seminary was part of you trying to save your faith or your, your faith already started unraveling then or were you, when did it start unraveling?
I actually give credit to my seminary for helping me lose my faith. So I wanted to go to seminary since I was in college. I was already enrolled in seminary Dallas theological seminary, which is like one of the most prominent conservative theologies in America at the time.
But I ended up, you know, moving overseas and getting a job. So I've wanted to be in seminary for like 15 years by the time I finally enrolled.
And I think I was kind of running out of my faith and trying like I knew I was meant to go to seminary and I always wanted.
But the seminary went to was really liberal and it was interfaith. So we had Muslims, the high atheists, Jewish people, Christian agnostic, and we're all studying scripture that we're all they're all there to study the Bible.
And then we being these Bible classes in each different segment had to bring their traditions interpretation of scripture.
And then I being class listening to all of these segments and beliefs and cultures bring their interpretation and every single one was better than the one I had been taught.
And I was this moment of like, I've been duped. I've been given down the most whitewash, hetero male centric version of this and the queer, the black, the Jewish, the Muslim, the the the high interpretations were all better.
And it was kind of like, I'm done. I'm out. I plus I'm not white. I'm not a man and I'm not straight. So why am I, why am I holding so tightly to this this interpretation that was passed down to me.
Yeah, Christianity is a man's religion really gives so much benefits to men. So, and it was about this time that you kind of discovered that you were queer.
Yeah, I realized I was queer in 2016. I started seminary 2017. And I came out publicly in 2017. So I was like, everything was kind of like, unraveling my whole identity around my sexuality, my whole identity around my faith, like everything.
I thought I knew to be true was all of a sudden kind of blowing up and it was one of the most terrifying and ultimately healing experiences in my life because I realized my queerness before I questioned my faith.
And when I realized my queerness, I thought, huh, if I can be this old in my 30s and thought I knew my sexuality all along and I was absolutely wrong.
What else do I think I know to be true and I'm completely wrong on. And that's when I started to unpack and deep program and question all the things I've been taught all my life, which eventually helps me walk away from my faith.
Interesting. So do you do you think that you were that you always had, again, you always were queer in a way or do you think you kind of developed over time.
Oh, yeah, looking back, it was so obvious. I had so many girl crushes. I was like making out with my girlfriend or my best friends in middle school. Like, but because I was never, you know, I was never even exposed to the queer community.
I didn't have vocabulary. I didn't have exposure. I didn't have labels. So but so I think it's somehow new to shove all that down and just repress it and be afraid of it.
And my Bible college had a crush on my girlfriend and I was so afraid of my this ever comes out, like shove it down, shove it down, shove it down, because it's not okay. Like, that's really wrong.
So yeah, I was there all along.
Wow.
That's so. So, yeah, so that must have been you've gone through quite a journey. Let me tell you, like,
do you ever like look back at like, you know, like, wow, I've gone like such I've had such a shift, I guess, in your perspective, I guess it doesn't feel like a shift or is it more that you look at the outwards perspective of yourself and it looks like a shift.
It feels like multiple lifetimes. I feel like I've lived multiple lives and I feel like this version I'm living now was like the truest version I've ever had but it is so far different from what I've ever been.
That's the only way I can explain it. It's like, it's just a different life and I almost feel like a different person than who I've ever been. And I love it. I feel like this is absolutely like the truest version. I mean, I can't wait to see where I go from here.
I'm excited to like follow you in your journey. I love seeing because you have such a such a freedom in what you post and you can really see that come through and what you do.
There's there's a common there's an interesting conversation to have around, you know, porn, giving like long term consent, like the idea of like, people need to know what they're getting into when they go into porn and there's obviously some problems in the industry and things like that.
But what I love about you is you've you've definitely and I watched your interview with Holly Randall you've definitely taken the approach as as responsibly for your own well being as possible.
Like you've really taken it you've only done whatever you want us to do you've taken all into your own hands and for you it seems to be an outlet to explore your sexuality and kind of you use the word bless other people with a satisfying experience.
Oh my god. Yeah, yeah, like, it does feel like a way for me to channel my sensuality and I you know I started my only fans for me.
It was not to make money it was not for it was for me it's like I needed a platform that was private because I had a paywall.
It just for me doesn't like what's it feel like to post sexy photos of myself do I like that. What's my limit. Do I want to show anything do I want to keep it all covered like it was just a play a almost like a playground for me to figure out.
Is this what I like what do I enjoy and it's been very much on my terms and like that's one advantage I think starting a little bit later in life is I feel very very grounded and who I am and what I want.
I regret not being able to do this at age 18 if I could relive my life all over I would have been a sex worker right off the gate of high school like no doubt either shipper or an escort or something.
But I think there's wisdom that comes with age and with lived experiences so I I appreciate that I started when I did because I just, it comes from such a grounded integrated truthful place for me and I think that's why I can be in it for so long I see a lot of girls.
Come and go come and go come and go and I just say because it brings me so much joy in meaning and satisfaction and everyone else gets to benefit from it as a result.
Yeah.
Yeah, I chat GDP said thank you for standing up for LGBT rights thank you so much for the super chat.
I really appreciate it and I have to know are you a real person or are you actually the AI that created by.
You're not going to.
So I have a I have a bit of a fun question.
If you could put up a Bible verse in the background of your next sex tape what would it be.
Oh my god.
Oh my gosh.
It would probably be something erotic and explicit Mike saw in the salamander something, but I did just think of the one that like Jesus what I think would be kind of hilarious.
That's great.
It is great.
So I in charity said question for Nicole what is the worst thing you've done to get a guy to a guy to turn him off of you.
So before you knew about consent did you ever do anything to, I guess, like,
like to turn him down.
Is that what that means or to stop.
I think I think so.
I think so like to.
Hmm.
I don't know if I've ever done anything really terrible I was really bashful and shy and I had a lot of body shame and sex shame I didn't have a voice I really didn't know how to advocate for myself.
I feel like anytime a guy was attracted to me that I wasn't into I was really like, like, cool.
Oh, thanks so much.
I'm just like not interested.
I can't tell a funny story though.
I remember, because I've had, you know, just a handful of guys pursued me or like, like lots of guys.
And I remember at one point my 20s, another guy had like really pursued me.
And I had no interest in him, but I couldn't.
I couldn't just honestly say that right because I didn't want to hurt his feelings.
The only excuse I could come up with that would give me easy out was, oh, I'm not dating right now.
Right.
I'm just not dating when I really would say, oh, I don't want to date you.
So I'm just not.
And then like a month later, I met my who would go on to be my husband.
I met a guy fell head over heels for it for him.
The next month we started dating and the next month I was engaged.
So two months after I told this man, I'm not dating.
I see him at a party and I have an engagement ring on my finger.
And I was just like, oh my God.
So bad.
He's like, so that happened.
I'm like, yeah, it happens.
Poor guy.
Oh, geez.
That's rough.
So you're happily married now, right?
No.
We got divorced.
So my first, my then husband, we got divorced almost three years ago.
And I'm dating someone now.
Okay.
Cool.
Oh yeah.
The question was, would you, you know, would you date a lady or is it purely sexual for you when it comes to.
Yeah, I would.
So I identify as pansexual, bisexual, whatever, but pants my favorite.
And for me, what that means, I'm attracted to all peoples, like whatever your gender is, whatever your orientation is, I'm just like a lover.
I could easily date a woman, a trans person, a non-binary person, a man.
Like I can date any of them.
I'm attracted to all humans.
The person I am currently with is a man.
Okay, cool.
Awesome.
So you mentioned that when you were, I want to get to the part where you talk about when you first started doing your photo shoots and stuff.
But I want to first ask you, what were some of the things you saw behind the curtain at church that made you kind of start questioning whether or not it was a valid, I guess, belief system or something you didn't like?
I think for me, for my last church, this is a crazy thing.
This last church, it was in like the 2010s to 2017, I would say, right?
The first church I'd ever been to in my life, that practice or that said gender equality, that women were engaged in in 2011 is when I went there.
Like brand new concept.
I remember when I was engaged to my then husband and we were having a conversation about a marriage, he's like, I don't expect you to submit to me.
And I was like, what?
Who am I marrying?
Who is this like liberal?
Like my whole life, I've been groomed and trained and indoctrinated to submit.
And I was so uncomfortable because I've been taught my whole life I'm not an equal.
So when I went to this church, it was the first church I went to that preached equality.
My mind was blown.
They saw my leadership and my passion for theology.
So they started mentoring me to become a pastor and I was like so elated because I'd always wanted to be a speaker.
But because women can't be preachers, I was called myself a motivational speaker, you know, to kind of like wiggle.
I know what you mean.
And then the more I rose up in the church, the more I saw what went down behind the scenes and I saw, oh, they preach equality.
They don't live it.
They give all the passes to all the men, all the paid positions, all the best positions.
And women were always kept down and women were always given a million extra hoops to jump through the finish line kept being pushed back.
We were never being paid.
It was like I just became more and more disillusioned.
The more I stayed there and the more I saw the discrepancy between what they taught and what they lived.
And eventually got me to a point of, you know, I tried it for five years.
I tried to play their game and I saw, oh, their game is that I never rise.
I never win.
And then I had to score out.
Yeah, it's it is crazy because a lot of it's like subconscious for, for, you know, these people like I experienced the same thing.
They don't you don't realize how like I went to a family wedding just recently and it was like a lot of the, you know, you promise to submit to your husband and or any kind of like feels kind of like my wife and I we have a very equal relationship.
Like we we like there's no there's no gender roles essentially in our relationship.
We tend to do gravitate towards certain things naturally.
Like I'll definitely pick up our dog's poos in the backyard and mow more than my wife does.
And she'll definitely wash more than wash.
But it's not um but yeah there's no like there's no like oh no I'm the man I don't cook or anything like that.
But and I don't understand people who my I don't understand people who like have those those like roles in their relationship.
It's it's weird to me.
Like I have friends and family who are like oh my wife said no and I'm like what do you mean she's you're your own person.
Like what do you mean like you shouldn't be telling it like the wife will say you're not allowed to go out with your friends or whatever night and then he'll say you can't wear that out.
And I'm like what is this is such a weird world that you guys live in.
I never understood it.
Yeah, and I can say that and I was part of that.
And I totally agree with you.
It was so subconscious.
It was like oh okay I should I should cover my skin and like oh you know I just bought into it and now that I'm out of it.
It's like now I'm like how what why when when did this ever become acceptable much just celebrated like in these in these circles it's celebrated to be submissive to your husband to let him control.
It's just like it is so mind boggling and it makes me all the more grateful that I got out of that.
There's this story that I've told a million times and people are going to be sick of me telling it but I'm going to tell you because I think it's a great story but what I discovered is I started interviewing women who deconstructed their faith on this channel.
And what I the common thread that I always find is that the purity culture stuff like you know do you ever go through like when you were a teenager or a young adult you went through like men's and women's groups where it's like you know.
And so in the men's groups we would essentially have like a non no masturbation clubs we would install software in each other's like computers and to make sure we're not looking at porn and we would text each other pray when one person was feeling horny and then the other person would go and pray for them to stop the spiritual warfare.
But what I didn't know is like so we were kind of being told we're a predator and we're going to want sexual time we need to hold it back through the power of Jesus of course and women were told you need to stop men stumbling because and so if you were a long skirt or you were like a top that's a bit too low whatever you're going to cause.
I mean to stumble or like they had they had like my church had ones where it's like they encourage all the girls like this this this Sunday we're going to come to church with no makeup on and it was like a big like whoa like.
And it kind of pissed me off a little bit to be honest because I was like it.
It pissed me off not for the reasons a little people think it pissed me off because why can't women be sexual deviants who also want to perv on guys and also you know like why would they yeah exactly.
It bothered me that it was almost like the inner feminist in me came out and was like this is bullshit women can be disgusting degenerate like perverts as well and that's totally fine.
And it's it also creates this like environment where men are told that to the predators and they need to hold back their emotions right like the end and then they don't masturbate all week.
And then Sunday comes around and you know the older late older Martha who runs the library store at church has a top one that's showing one center of cleavage.
And they're like I can't take it and then it confirms all the the feelings that they had and she feels that pressure getting perved on.
So she's like I've got to cover up even more and it's self perpetuating like thing of shame and guilt and shame and guilt and then like you know as a as a young teenager I would look at pornography and or masturbate and feel so much guilt and shame like horrible amounts of it.
And none of my friends my other friends were dealing with that and I think it created more problems than it.
It's so interesting so I have three kids age 7 10 12 my youngest is a boy so far you can change you know unless it changes.
And I remember someone was watching him and he wanted to watch Titanic my seven year old and the person watching him called me asking and told my son like oh we have to call your mom and ask if it's OK and my son's like why and the person's like well because there's like a scene with a naked woman in it.
And he's like my son says I see my mom naked all the time.
So what.
And I just love like like even at this age because this is when like a pro you know when we program our children to think certain things and like at this point I knew to always cover to always hide to be ashamed.
Whereas in my home we've normalized the human body and to not be afraid of really.
If if you see a naked woman in Titanic we can talk about it.
Right.
And he would talk he's like why do boobs look like that.
I'm like well boobs look all different.
Some have smaller.
And we have a whole conversation and there's no shame.
And I just think of like how much that's going to serve them in the future because they're not.
It's so funny for the work that I do.
My kids aren't being raised in a hyper sexualized home.
They're being raised in a body positive sex positive home where we can talk about all these things and approach it from a really healthy educated perspective.
And it's just I'm just so excited because I'm like I can't really see how that serves them because I didn't have that growing up.
I always wonder how how might my life had been different had I been raised with that kind of communication and understanding and education.
So is there like nudity in like are you just happy to be nude in front of your children or your children being nude in your house.
Yes.
All the time.
Like I don't I don't even think twice about it.
And it's so funny I have this post award right here next to you guys can't see and I clipped out my favorite photos from 2022.
Celebration board and I have a few photos in there that have me partially naked for my photo shoots.
And one of my kids asked me mom like is that weird for the photographer to take pictures of you like that.
And I was like no I pick really good photographers.
They're really professional.
I do it for my work.
I'm really professional and there's some of your photos and she's like oh OK.
And so just provide like I love what I do because I love it but B it provides so many opportunities to have conversations with my kids.
That wouldn't otherwise naturally occur and I have to find ways to force a conversation to occur.
But they just because I have lingerie everywhere.
I have pictures everywhere.
I have dildos everywhere.
Like we're just constantly talking about all things sex and body and consent and I just they know more than I think the average kid and I think it's really amazing.
This this is actually blowing my mind a little bit because I never I thought that you know I'm going to raise my you know our children.
We just had a little baby boy Atlas and he's five weeks old and we're you know I was like I'm going to raise him to be body positive and free.
And you know I think someone even asked me like would you care if your daughter became a sex worker.
And I'm like actually I wouldn't like I don't like I think if that's what they wanted to do.
Like I would care if they were doing it because they were desperate or you know they needed they didn't money for drugs or something.
But that's not the sex works problem.
That's the you know.
So yeah they if they were doing the healthy positive way I would have no issues with it and they were kind of shocked at that answer.
But I never considered the idea of totally destigmatizing nakedness.
Like obviously a lot of cultures would have done that for many years and a lot of cultures still do it.
And it's probably really common in like Europe and stuff.
But that's really interesting.
I'm going to think about that.
I'm going to show my I'm going to show Amy my wife this video and get her thoughts on because that's that's an interesting idea.
I'm naked all the time around my dog.
But I'm just what I was always wondering like at what age do I start putting clothes on around my wife and I start putting clothes on around.
But how old does Atlas need to be that we start covering up.
You know.
It'll happen.
It'll happen naturally.
You know because my oldest at this point probably like mom put clothes on like I'm sorry out there a robot.
But like my recently my youngest saw me pee because he walked by my bathroom and my door is open.
And he's like your pee comes out there or it comes out like that.
And I was like yes.
And he's like oh yeah.
I remember one time you told me that I that you have three holes down there where your three holes.
So I pulled up my phone.
I pulled up an anatomy picture and I'm like well he's going to learn everything because there is no child leaving my house who does not know the anatomy of all genders.
So I'm like this is the clitoris.
This is where the pee comes out.
This is the vagina.
This is where babies come out.
This is where my blood comes out.
And this is a labia.
And he's like well why is there two parts here?
I'm like oh that's the inner labia and that's the outer labia.
And he goes oh that makes sense because one's on the inside and one's on the outside.
I'm like exactly.
And he's like cool.
And then he ran off.
And already there I'm like he knows more than probably the average teen boy.
And it happened from him to see me doing something natural which is using the bathroom because there's no shame in my house.
It's changed the way that I'm raising them.
Yeah there was a really horrible story from someone on Deep Drinks recently.
I'll just bring it up quickly.
Where is it?
Faye.
So Faye grew up in a Hasidic Jewish cult and they didn't learn about anything to do with sex.
Not even what sex was until weeks before their wedding.
Before they were having sex for the first time.
And a lot of these girls there was this one hotel that all the Hasidic Jewish couples would go to for their wedding night.
And I think she said there were two or three cases of women jumping off the roof the next day afterwards because they were so traumatised by the experience of having sex.
And of course they had no idea what consent was.
The man didn't know what he was doing.
They had sex for the first time and were so traumatised that they killed themselves.
And I mean this is a large community but still three deaths are three deaths.
And it's horrible to think that.
But like she lost her family because her mum caught her wearing pants as she was walking home from the gym.
And her mum did a ritual which was essentially a ritual to if your child dies you do that ritual.
So she was like you're dead to me because you wore pants.
Like it's crazy what religious police can do.
In saying that actually it's probably a good time to mention you have a YouTube channel and it's not just all preaching.
You have some other stuff going on there.
Of course you have an OnlyFans as well.
I'm not going to bring that up but it's linked in the description.
If you would like to support Nicole and you'd like to see Nicole's bits and have that pleasurable experience.
Go over there and make sure you mention that you're from Deep Drinks.
I love knowing where my people come from.
They can totally see that.
Awesome.
And of course you do life coaching as well and a bunch of other really cool stuff.
And you've been kind of everywhere.
Like you're really good at marketing yourself.
So your website is, hey that's an image.
I'm just wondering if I'm getting in trouble for that.
But be fine on YouTube I think.
But yeah check out your website nicolemitra.com and obviously your Instagram as well which is full of the I guess the Instagram ready versions of your stuff from OnlyFans.
Something you did mention actually is that you get your post removed more than someone with the same image that's a guy on Instagram right?
Oh my gosh.
Can you tell us a little bit about that?
Yeah the double standards are real.
If I mail photographers we can post the exact same photo and mine gets taken down and my account gets reported.
Like I'm warned.
Like if you violate our community standards, if you do it again your account may be deleted.
But they, all my photos, the exact same ones I posted all stay up on their account.
It's crazy.
And so I used to fight against it because I'm just such a free spirit and like speaking of consent and you can't tell me what to do.
It's my page, my account.
But at the end of the day it's their fucking platform.
They can do whatever they want.
So I just have to play safer.
Because what people don't realize is three, four years ago you could post full news on Instagram as long as you just censored the tiny bits.
And then it's actually during political season when it gets closer to election it gets really conservative and a lot of pages and accounts and photos are taken down.
Right now we're in a really relaxed period.
So now there's more nude photos I've ever seen in three or four years and I'm like jealous because I want to post mine.
But it's not worth risking losing my count over so I just play more safe to keep it.
Wow.
Yeah, it's crazy.
That's crazy.
That's very crazy.
So you mentioned, you mentioned that you, the first time you ever took nude photos.
I don't know if this is the first time but the first impactful moment you took nude photos was when you were, you had big boobs from breastfeeding and you felt really sexy because of that.
So you got a friend to take photos for you.
Is that right?
Yeah, I think if again I've always been super sensual and I had a girlfriend I'd see like once a year and for whatever reason she would like I'd ask her to take naked photos of me and I do I when I had my breastfeeding boobs they were so big and luscious.
I would call them my porn star boobs and I go my God, I love my porn star boobs.
And then, you know, after I my kids were done breastfeeding they shrink to even smaller than what they were originally and I was so sad.
And yet wasn't had never really considered getting a boob job until I moved to California and out here at plastic surgery, like everyone has plastic surgery right here.
And I actually love it.
Women out here know what they want and they let themselves have it.
There's no question.
Whereas in the Midwest, our highest goal is to like deny ourselves.
Sacrifice, be selfish, like put like suppress your desires, but in California it's like, I want that I'm going to have it.
And so that being in this space gave me permission like, oh, I've always loved big boobs.
And it's normal here.
And that's what gave me the courage to finally get a boob job and they're still smaller than my breastfeeding boobs.
My breastfeeding ones gave me headaches.
They were so full.
And so I went a little bit smaller.
Yeah.
I see Amy like come out of the shower now or whatever.
I'm like, oh my God, like wait, like, whoa, like what?
Like, you know, it's like, whoa, okay.
Hello.
Yeah.
At least for me.
I love big boobs.
I was obsessed with it.
I like, I like all kinds of boobs.
I'm very, I like, I like anything to be honest.
Let me just say I'm a passionate man when it comes to ladies.
But so you, you had these photos taken and then eventually you decided to get a professional photo shoot.
Tell us what was it?
What was it about?
Yeah.
So for years, I had my girlfriend take these photos and I had nowhere to share them.
So I just keep them on my phone just for me.
And I'm like, oh my God, these are so beautiful.
Like I wanted the world to see these.
And this is when only fans came out.
I mean, I didn't learn about only fans until 2019.
And when I did, I was like, oh my God, this is an answer to prayer.
And then when I moved to California, no one here knew who I was.
So it was like a fresh slate for me.
No one knew I came from a religious background.
No one knew I just left my big mega church.
Like I could be anything I wanted to be.
And I wanted to be a model.
I wanted to be an actress.
I've wanted to be those things since I was a little, little girl until I was taught that
those are vain and shallow pursuits and interests.
And I was reclaiming my desires.
And I was like, well, I want to be a model.
I may also like dabble.
Like I'm too old.
I'm too short.
I'm too late, but I'll try it.
And so I booked with a photographer.
I've been following for probably a year and I loved his work and he does fine art nude.
And so I, he came to California.
We did a shoot.
I did a total nude shoot.
And as soon as we wrapped up, I got my car and I falled because I was like, I have never
felt more holy, more pure, more true in this moment.
Like there's literally nothing between me and God.
It is just me as I was fucking born.
And I was like, Oh my God, I'm a nude model.
I want to do this.
Like this.
I want to do this.
And so that's kind of a burst.
This like dabble with modeling to like, no, I want this to be full time.
Well, that's super, that's actually super interesting.
91.5% of men and 60.2% of women reported having consumed pornography in the last month.
It's like, it's like, it's, it's so funny to me that everyone enjoys it.
But it's such a taboo for people to participate in that.
People are so afraid of pleasure, especially in religious and conservative sections.
Like so afraid of feeling good.
And I think we have this like collective fear that as soon as it's going to feel good,
it's too good to be true.
The other shoe is going to be dropped.
The rugs me pulled out from other under you.
Nothing good ever lasts.
Like we literally have these, these quotes in our world and our country that betray our
ultimate belief, nothing good lasts.
And once it feels good, something bad is going to follow.
So if you don't want something bad to happen, then you're going to suppress the good.
And so part of my journey has been learning to like expand my capacity for pleasure, feeling
safe with feeling good.
And now I get a lot of people who sign up for my digital courses or sign up with me as a
client, as a coach, client relationship, they want to learn how can I live a life that's
rooted in pleasure versus there's more and more and more pleasure and nothing bad has
to happen.
And I don't have to sabotage it and there's no cost to pay for it.
Like it really gets to be this good.
And so that's one thing I love about my porn or my adult content that I create because
it is so authentic and is born from like my truest self.
I think it's so refreshing for people because like when you come to my space, when you come
to my only fans, we can talk about all things sex and all things spiritual.
We can talk about your kids and your kinks, your fears and your fetishes.
There's nothing off limits.
And in most adult spaces, you can only talk about things, all sex.
But in my space, I want to know all of you.
Like when I said, tell me that you came from this podcast, tell me where you found me.
I actually care about you and I want to get to know you.
And I think that's such a unique thing that people like me and platforms like only fans
can offer the world.
And I think it's actually to give people what they need or what they're looking for.
They get the pleasure and they get the connection.
And I'm hoping that will help dispel the shame a lot of people carry and feel more good in
their body, more good in their pleasure and freer to consume it, freer to experience it,
freer to give it.
I think the whole world will benefit from that.
Did you find that after you started doing new modeling and started opening up a lot more
and now you're doing, you re-release your sex tape, do you find that you're actually more,
I guess, free?
Have you found that your sex life has actually gotten better?
Gosh, so much better.
When I say I make love like a porn star, it's like the truest statement, the most accurate
statement that I've ever seen in my life.
It is so fucking good, David.
And it's weird to toot your own horn or brag about your own sex life, but it's because
I've been on the other extreme where I was so ashamed of my body and so afraid of sex
that I was not fun to have sex with.
Right?
I was just so locked and now to be so free and I know my body really well.
I know my kinks.
I know my fetishes and I'm really open.
I'm always open to exploring.
I'm really fun to have sex with.
And it's like healing for me and it's healing for people I've been with.
Like to see how free and happy and unashamed I am.
It sets other people to feel like, oh shit, I can love it this much too.
And it's okay to love it this much too.
And like, it's okay to have curiosities and want to explore more things.
And I'm like, yes, yes, yes.
And yes.
I've been an appreciator of adult cinema a few times in my life.
And you can actually really tell the difference between someone who enjoys the is enjoying
the, the experience like the, the, the whole, the whole, they would be doing it without
paid versus someone who is there because they feel they want the attention for, I guess,
whatever reason on it, either money or something like that.
Like you can, you can see the difference between a healthy, a healthy approach to engaging in
like pornographic material or adult sex work.
And, and, and what comes across as like someone's not enjoying this as much like they're faking
it, right?
What do you think?
Do you think that it needs to be a conversation that needs to be had around pornography and
how it's kind of pervasive amongst like how it's kind of, I guess, some parts are glamourized
and some parts, I'm finding hard to come up with a good question, but do you see that
like any issues in the landscape at the moment?
Like do you think that there needs to be a conversation to be had around sex work?
Obviously, the answer is probably yes, but you're, you're, you're already, you're already
having that conversation and you're trying to promote, I guess, a responsible, freeing,
open, explore your body, like no shame approach, which I think is great.
Do you think there's another side of the coin though where people need to understand the
long-term ramifications of maybe if they're not ready emotionally to have sex or to have
sex on camera or to even show themselves being naked, do you think there needs to be a
conversation on both sides?
Yeah, there's a few things here.
So one is, you know, at the end of the day, sex work and porn is a job, like any other
job is a job.
So whether someone does it out of passion, like me, or someone does it just to pay their
bills, I think they're both can be healthy.
I don't think one, one is unhealthy, just like we all get a job at some point to pay the
faking bills.
Doesn't mean you're unhealthy or you're doing it for a purpose.
It's legit.
So I just have me really, really privileged that I can do it out of passion and that I
was able to choose it on my terms.
I didn't need it for the money.
Like I think it's a total legit path.
If you need money and you're cool with like using your body in that way, go for it.
I, I have a lot of privilege on my platform and I came into it in a digital era where
I could perform it all online.
Right.
If I had started this one when I was 18, like I sometimes wish I could have.
I would have been in person, whether as an escort or as a stripper and that there's a
lot that goes on.
There's a lot of middlemen and you're at way more risks.
And so I know I hold a lot of privilege as an online performer.
I, that naturally eliminates most risks, risks that a lot of other adult performers and sex
workers have to face in their in-person workplace.
And so I think that's the part of the conversation.
Like I always want to acknowledge my privilege and people know like mine is just one tiny
white, mine is just my own experience.
There's as many experiences as there are many, as there are humans.
But I wish more people realize it's just a job, like in so many ways.
And if that's your ticket to get money paid and to get your, or to get your bills paid
and to make money or to, it's the only job you can see yourself doing.
I think that's totally legit.
And sometimes people say to me like, how could you like sell your body and use it that way
for work?
And I'm like, don't we all sell our bodies?
Whether you're a doctor using your hands and your brains and your eyes to perform surgery
or you're a dentist using your hands and your eyes to do oral care or you're a server serving
for, we all use our bodies for work.
It's only the fact that you have stigma and shame around sex work that you would ask a
sex worker that, but we all use your bodies and we all use your bodies to make money.
It's really interesting that because I couldn't form the question very well that there's still
like must be some underlying like underlying religious thought or something going on in
my brain where I equivocated that I didn't pick that up that, yeah, it is just work.
And I was just like, oh, you know, someone's doing it because they need the money.
Well, I kind of view that as a, I kind of portray that as a negative thing.
Just so everyone knows I'm very new to this conversation.
I wanted to have Nicole on here because she's thought about this a lot.
You say that you think too much about things.
I can relate.
So, yeah, it's interesting how this conversation is actually getting you to think a lot about,
I think this is more beneficial for me than anyone else.
I'm really getting to think a lot about the kind of perspectives that I hold about.
I thought I was pretty progressive, but I guess I got more to think about.
This is really interesting.
Me too.
I like, you know, on Twitter, I follow almost all sex workers because I, I need this.
I've only been in this field for three and a half years.
There's people been in it for decades and they've seen the evolution and like, I want to know where,
where I've come from.
Like all the shoulders I'm standing on, all the giants who came before me and paved this
way where I could have so much freedom and privilege and safety and profit when so many
sex workers have struggled over the years.
And so like, I, I am constantly learning and constantly being educated.
And, and I love it.
Like, I'm like, please don't stop.
Please keep teaching me so that we can all make this world a better place.
Is that, is that you mentioned the greats?
Are they greats that you particularly look up to by people that you found that you find inspiring?
Who are they?
So my, probably the three or four, there's four.
So there's Jenna Jamison.
There's Pamela Anderson.
There's Angela White.
And then Elle Stanger are my four probably favorites.
And Jenna Jamison is fucking rad.
And I didn't learn about her until like two years ago and all my friends were horrified.
I hadn't heard about her, but we, you know, my upbringing, how would I know who porn stars
are?
I couldn't even watch cartoons as a kid.
There were certain cartoons I couldn't watch because they were too, too much, you know,
for my family.
So when I learned about these porn stars later in life and I'd read their, their autobiographies
or their memoirs and I'd see all the shit they went through.
And I'm like, my heart breaks for them.
And yet I'm so proud of them for being so badass and so powerful.
And like still choosing this path that most people say you're broken or busted to take
this path after all they went through.
And now I'm at this point in time where I have so much privilege and ease of access to
everything.
And I have to give credit where credit is due.
And it's people like Jenna Jamison, even Pamela Anderson.
I watched her documentary and I was like, Oh my God, this like sex symbol we thought I
thought was so inspiring.
She was actually torn to shreds and ruined the process and not at her faults.
Right.
It was all used against her.
And it's like, I don't, you know, I've had it used against me, but I, we live in a little
bit different era than she did.
And then Angela White is like the current, the biggest porn star right now in the adult
industry.
And I always joke, had they been raised in a non-Christian home, I would be Angela White.
Like she is the, like in the traditional porn industry.
That's me.
That's who I wish I could be if I did things traditionally or in person.
And Angela White is, is the goat.
Like in regards, like I've done, she's really well, well spoken.
And she's, she like finished her degrees in Melbourne in Australia on, I think it was,
I can't remember what her degrees were, but like she's got a really, like she really knows
like what she's doing in regards to like, she's an amazing performer, but she's also incredibly
like she, she, she sets the rules.
She doesn't like, she, she went into it like a business and yeah, I totally.
She's a brilliant business woman, right?
She has her own production team.
She produces and directs her own porn and like she's incredibly smart.
And I also related to her because she's wanted to do this and she was a teenager and no one
understood her.
And I'm like, oh my God, I can still relate because in middle school, I would talk to
my girlfriends how I wanted to be a stripper someday thinking everybody wanted to be a
stripper.
Cause I was so sexual and they all looked at me like horrifying.
And I was like, oh, everyone doesn't want to be a stripper.
Like I still related to Angela when she's like, I've wanted this for, since I was a little girl.
Yeah.
So it's so funny.
I have so many stories myself of that, like not, not, not exact, not the same as that,
but like just things that I thought were normal, but they weren't normal.
Like the shame and stuff around the section and stuff like that is a big thing.
So when you were, so, so you've probably gone through a lot, right?
So when it comes to deconstructing your faith, was that a hard part of your journey deconstructing
your faith and unlearning all that stuff?
I was terrified, you know, like I was about to release everything I knew to be true and
all the people that came with it.
Because when you leave your faith, you're not just leaving your faith, you're leaving your
community.
Right.
And I, when I was my first year in seminary, I was constantly asking my professors and
my classmates, like, am I doing the right thing?
Like, what if I'm traumatizing my children?
What if they grew up and they hate me because they pulled them out of the church?
Like, because when I pull them out, like they lose all their friends.
Yes, agree, Sylvia.
And I did, I proudly identify as a slut, right?
Like every claim that you're totally right.
And so I was constantly questioning, what if I'm doing this wrong?
And I'd have my professors and classmates say to me, they like, I wish I was raised
in a home where my mom openly talked about the stuff where she would have shared with
me.
I'm questioning.
I'm not sure.
I used to believe this.
Now I'm not so sure.
Like, like, I would have felt so much freer and safer as a kid had that been my, my home.
And I, I would try to like cling to their words because I was still so scared.
What if I'm making the wrong decision?
And then after a couple of years, I'm like, Oh, I think I made the right decision.
And now I'm like, Oh my God, that was the right decision.
But there were a couple of years there where I was a little wobbly because I was leaving
everything and everyone for the unknown.
And I had no idea what was going to lead me.
Had no ideas.
I was going to be making adult content.
That wasn't, I, that was not the intention.
The intention was who am I underneath all the dogma?
Who am I underneath all the indoctrination?
What do I actually want out of my life?
And lo and behold, let me hear.
Wow.
So did you have a, did you feel like you had a personal relationship with Jesus or like,
or was it more, so how did that?
Do you still feel like you have a personal relationship with Jesus?
Like how did that develop?
No, I was like a total Jesus freak.
Like I, I was so, I felt so guilty having sex in high school.
I only had it a handful of times with a couple of different guys and I felt like a horrible
slut, horrible human, horrible future wife.
So I, I went, became celibate for six years.
Self-imposed celibacy.
I didn't date at all my entire career.
So did I.
Same thing.
I, I had sex with my high school girlfriend and then like five or six times and then was
celibate until like from 16 to like 20 something.
Like the experiences we were robbed of, David, it makes me so mad.
Like if there's any time to be a slut, it's fucking college.
Like I was in a Bible college.
There's no like, yeah.
Deprived.
Um, and so yeah, I was robbed of that.
And so, and I remember, I mean, I've never told anyone this and I'm like slightly embarrassed
to say this, but this is how much of a Jesus freak I was.
I remember like in college driving my car and putting my hand in the passenger seat.
Like I'm holding the hand of Jesus.
I'm like, I'm dating Jesus until I find my husband.
Like that is how hard for I was.
It's so embarrassing.
And now I'm like, was Jesus real?
I don't know.
Like that's how that's the other extreme I've made.
I'm like, I don't know if he was real.
Was he the son of God?
I think we're all God's children.
So what makes him so special?
Like I just question everything that I was taught about him.
Yeah.
We had Dr. Jennifer Bird, who's still a Christian and she's a strong Christian and she's a Bible scholar.
And she said that she went from, from dating Jesus in college.
So she'd go on dates with Jesus where she would go to a cafe and pray and all that stuff.
And she kind of rebuked her mom when her mom, when her mom was getting ordained as a pastor.
Like she's like, how, you know, you know that this isn't okay.
The Bible says, you know, and now she's a big time ally for LGBT folks.
She writes about gender, sex and marriage within the Bible.
Like she is like hardcore, cool.
She's really cool.
She's going to be on a panel actually, the slavery panel that's coming up.
So did you, so when you left the church, do you have any funny moments about getting judged by the church members or family?
It was interesting.
When I left the church, no one said anything.
And it's like kind of ideal, but also heartbreaking.
I spent six years, seven years of my life there.
I was in the nursery.
I was in the high school.
I spoke to the high school.
I was speaking to my church.
I was involved everywhere.
I held their babies, taught their teenagers, spoke to the church.
And like no one said anything when all of a sudden I was gone.
And I was like, really?
I poured my entire heart, life and soul into all of you for six, seven years and not a word.
Really?
Wow.
Do they all get catch wind that you were like doing like nude modeling and stuff?
Or was it?
Oh yeah.
Cause they all follow me on Facebook and that was part of my terror was like, if I want to do this, there's no way of doing it sneakily.
Cause like everyone and their mom follows me on social media.
And so that's why I decided to write a coming out post to kind of like be very clear about what I'm about to start or what I've already started.
And if you want to join me for the ride, hop on.
If you are offended or just, you know, dismayed, please unfollow or unsubscribe now and just kind of put that out there.
And that's when I think I got some like, oh my God, you're an embarrassment for Jesus or come back to the church or you've totally lost your soul.
I got some messages there, but I think most of them were kind of shell shocked and like didn't know what to do.
And I feel like I kind of like, I feel like they're all like watching, like I'm their reality TV show.
They turn on at night.
Like they're trash TV.
They don't ever want to admit to half of them are probably masturbating looking at your stuff anyway.
Like how?
Oh my God.
Not even.
It's so true.
I always say I just do in public what they do in private and that's because I own it and they try to keep it secret.
Yeah.
And you probably do it way better than they do.
Like let me help you with that.
Yeah.
I'll help you.
Yeah.
It's funny.
I don't know who this was, but someone was in the chat saying like you have you just before I think you have a ponson on, you know the truth.
Like to me and I'm like, I don't think you know who I am.
Like, who are I?
I muted them and everyone was like, they're a troll and and someone said, and Derek said, Jesus squirts.
So yeah, that definitely will set them away.
So yeah, I was like, what the heck?
But it's like, I was like, do they know who I am?
Well, this is so strange.
Anyway, obviously they don't know enough about me.
But so you raised your children down in the sex positive home.
Have you lost relationships with your like family, like your other, I guess your parents and siblings?
Have you lost a relationship with them a little bit?
Yeah, all of them.
Really?
And I lost my three best friends.
Oh, my past did not come without cost.
And it's probably the most painful thing I've experienced in my life.
And yeah, like people like will say, well, do you regret it?
I'm like, absolutely not.
I don't regret being true to me.
I regret that my people couldn't love the real me, the real me.
Whoa.
So like, do you, that's, that's great.
So do you have no relationship with them at all anymore?
Is that on their behalf or on your behalf because they wouldn't stop preaching to you and or something?
Well, the mixture of both, some of them completely cut me out right away.
And that was that.
And I only learned when I found out like, oh, my texts aren't going through.
I've been blocked.
Like, oh snap.
And then some have the, yeah, they kept coming at me and I, and I wrote them like, I love you, but this is really harmful for me.
And until you're able to like kind of check yourself and like be in a better place and can treat me like a human like we can't talk.
And so then I block them.
So it's kind of a mixture of both and both are equally heartbreaking.
Whoa.
What's that all called?
It's like, there's no, there's no hate like Christian love.
And it's like, geez, that's really rough.
I'm really sorry that you've gone through that.
That's, that's, that's horrible.
Yeah.
It's been really painful.
And yet, you know, maybe someday we'll have relationship.
I don't know, but I think part of it was, it was really good for me in the sense.
I think sometimes when you're constantly being battered or hounded, it's really hard to figure out where you stand and what your boundaries are.
And finally, when all that noise is kind of eliminated, you get really clear on, oh, this is what I will tolerate.
And this is what it won't, or this is like non-negotiable.
And this is negotiable.
You kind of get to heal when you're no longer being harmed.
And I can see myself getting to a point where I've healed enough to where I'm like, okay, maybe I open that door again and see what can be arranged.
But I don't think that healing could have happened while I was still being harmed.
Yeah.
Wow.
That's, that's really, it's really brutal to hear when that stuff kind of happens.
That was always a fear for myself and my wife and Amy, when we kind of deconstructed our faith, like would our family still accept us as family?
Or like, would they do what the Bible says, which is not to even eat with someone who called themselves a believer and now doesn't.
Yeah, it was, it's a really scary thing.
And I'm so sorry that that's happened.
And that kind of answers your question that you asked a little bit ago, like, should there be more conversations ahead of time?
And I do tell women, like, if you go into this, just be aware, like if you come from a religious or controlling or fearful family, are you okay with them not supporting you?
Are you okay with them cutting you off?
Are you okay with cutting them off?
Like, these, these aren't conversations that are had very often because I think we don't want to admit that.
But I think it can help prevent people getting into situations that maybe they don't want to get into.
Because some women just like, oh, just play with it at knowing like their whole family is going to explode over it.
And it's like, play with it.
Is it worth it to you if it is go for it.
But if it's not worth it to you to play in it, maybe there's another thing you can do.
So I think just being really honest with yourself about what am I okay with happening from here.
And, you know, people get fired.
Women have gotten fired for starting in OnlyFans.
I have a dear friend who's a teacher in Indiana.
She got fired for starting in OnlyFans and she was just playing with it.
She was like, I can maybe make some side money and lost her only source of income.
And so it's like, you definitely want to think it through and I don't want you to operate from a fear based mentality.
But I think just being really honest about what can you handle if these things happen to you.
Yeah.
I often think that one of the problems with the, you know, the adult entertainment industry is there's no way for someone to,
once something is out there, it's always out there.
There's no way for someone to like take it back.
I would love for there to be some form of like NFT technology or something that someone can retroactively say,
hey, I don't want to know, I don't even want these things to be on the internet.
And then it does like a really good job of removing those things from the internet.
If there wasn't the ability to like make it so like, you know, people could save your content.
Like, I mean, obviously people could still probably screenshot or something,
but you can make it really difficult for someone to be able to keep your content or a lot more difficult than it is now.
You just save a video or you just, it's just on a million websites, like content ID.
If that could happen.
And I think it is getting there.
But I think that would solve a lot of the problems because I think there is something to say about the retroactive,
like looking, looking, saying, I don't want to share this part of my life anymore, but it's still there.
Do you know what I mean?
Like there are people who, who's that really popular?
There's really popular porn star, Mila.
She, she, I forgot what her name was.
She would dress up in like burkas and stuff or Mia.
Someone, someone tell me, someone tell me.
But, but she, she would, she couldn't get a job after she chanted like eight scenes or something
and she couldn't get a job afterwards because she was so popular that everyone recognized that she would start jobs
and then they would fire her because it would bring too much unnecessary attention to the company and it was, she said it was horrible.
And it's like, if that, if, if her content could be removed.
Like after the fact, like she said, hey, I no longer consent to this being out there.
Not only does it give the people more agency, but it helps.
Yeah.
It just gives them more agency.
I think that's the.
Yeah.
And I think part of the solution to that is like decriminalizing sex work.
Like these women are being fired or not getting jobs because of Sigma because at the end of the day, sex workers have incredible social and professional skills.
We know how to do customer service.
We know how to engage.
We know how to get rid of customers.
Like we are so, we know how to make, turn anything into money.
We are so good.
We are an incredible asset to any business and company that and like if it comes with all this attention, that's actually good for you.
You have all this press that you can like turn around and utilize for your good, but because you have so much sex shame and stigma that you then instead of addressing your internalized
or phobia, you fire the woman who's only sold income.
Like that was it for her and her babies.
Like my girlfriend is right from her teaching job.
She's struggling with her.
She and her children.
She's the sole provider and like, and a man bought her photos, subscribed to our page, bought her photos and then distributed them.
I posted them on Facebook, sent them to our employer and like, why isn't he the one getting in trouble for leaking content and publishing it publicly?
And this is like, yeah, that should be a crime.
Right.
That's the crime.
Not her.
And I always tell people there's nothing wrong sharing a nude photo.
What's wrong is when someone leaks that.
And so I think decriminalizing sex workers and sex work and then criminalizing people who do crimes like that.
We've got it totally backwards.
And that's what's so heartbreaking is like my sex worker friends are some of the most brilliant, compassionate women I've ever met.
And yet they're the most punished and the men who do things to them get off scotch free.
That's backwards.
Hmm.
Yeah, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's very bizarre the world we live in.
It's definitely very bizarre.
Is, so is prostitution illegal in the States?
Yes.
That's so weird to me.
In Australia, it's decriminalized, right?
Yeah, we've got brothels.
We've got brothels here.
Like they're not on the main street, but like, like I had a friend who, um, a friend who had a friend who worked at the brothel.
And she said she went in with her and it was amazing.
She said it was the beautiful rooms is like, it's all like really clean.
And it's like, it's all, you know, the, the, um, the sex workers, they, they, uh, everyone gets tested.
They, they all like, they, there's all safe sexes, bounces.
Like it's all safe.
It's, um, you know,
But it's like, you know, I mean, but then we still have some weird things like in South Australia, it's illegal to own pornography.
If the women have a cup breast size.
If they breast a cup, it's illegal for you to own that pornography because it's too close to children.
That's only in South Australia.
It's, it's very weird.
It's very, it's very strange.
Um, it's very strange.
But, um, yeah, we have prostitution.
It's weird to me that America doesn't have prostitution.
I know.
We're like so progressive.
We're so backwards in so many ways.
We're a weird economy.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We don't have guns.
Like it's very hard to find a gun.
That's how it should be.
It's easy.
Yeah.
It's, yeah.
It's so backwards in that area.
Yeah.
It's, um, definitely different, um, different perspectives.
I heard, I don't know how true this is.
I have a friend who moved to Malaysia, I think, or a country and then moved to the Philippines.
And one of them was influenced by, um, one country and one of them was influenced by another.
And one of them was influenced by the US.
So I think it was at the Philippines and she, she went first one to the Philippines and she would hear these like coconuts falling at night.
Um, and she was like, it was very, very Christian nation.
And, um, and she was like, oh, you know, coconuts and she found out later that gunshots.
Um, and there were like, her family had guns all over the house.
She slept next to her.
Um, uh, some sort of a sniper rifle because, you know, like, and it's just like, whoa, I was like, this is hectic.
She's like in Malaysia.
It was a, it was a very, um, it was a, uh, Muslim, uh, inspired country that hadn't, they didn't really have guns.
That was all new to her.
But it was so different how, I don't know, the Christian nation had all the, I don't know.
It was just, it's just very strange how different countries influence other countries.
Yeah.
Um, yes.
And America for being a Christian nation, teaching the love of Jesus while like carrying guns.
It's like, it makes no sense to me.
I know.
I know.
I remember watching, as an Australian, I remember watching Michael Moore documentaries,
which they're, they're a little bit very, they're very inaccurate.
I've realized, but, but one of the things I noticed was I was like, I remember watching one of them and I was like, wait,
I was like, why are the gun people talking about Jesus?
Aren't they the bad ones?
And I couldn't believe to me that a Christian would own a gun.
Like, I'm like, I'm like, Jesus said those who live by the sword die by the sword.
He rebuked Peter for protecting the son of God.
Like, how can you, how can a Christian own guns?
It was bizarre to me.
And then I found out like they were the ones pushing.
And I was like, I was like, what is going on here?
And I know that there are people are going to argue in the comments that I'm misunderstanding things.
And I probably am, but it was just as an Australian, it was very weird to me that, that the Christians
were the gun, the pro-gun people and the atheists or the people who weren't necessarily believers.
But yeah, it's very strange.
Yeah.
It's like we teach forgiveness or the scripture teaches forgive your enemies, bless your enemies.
And Christians like, let's kill those motherfuckers.
I'm like, wait a second.
There's a disconnect here.
I'm not following this train of thought.
Yeah.
So, so as we're just wrapping up, I wanted to ask you about your coaching.
What do you do for your coaching?
Oh my gosh.
So I work one-on-one with clients and I teach digital courses.
So it's for people.
People typically come to me for a couple of reasons.
A good chunk of them come to me because they want to make a shit ton of money.
I'm really passionate about helping people monetize who they are and what they love doing and to help you make a shit ton of money.
I think it's, I think it's so doable, easier than we've ever been taught.
And then other people come to me because they want to live a fully expressed life because they watch me.
I'm due adult content full-time and I have a very successful life coaching business and people thought the opposite happened.
That once I got into life coaching, no one would want to work with me.
Once I got into adult content, everyone came to work with me because they saw like you're doing authentically.
You're doing it in integrity.
You're doing it passionately and you're a great mom and you're a great partner and you're running a coaching business.
Like how do you do that?
And so I have all kinds of courses as you can see here, become a money magnet, absolute confidence, become a viral sensation.
Currently I'm teaching my signature embodiment program called Sexy and Free, which is all about a life of pleasure, profit and power.
And I love it.
I love helping people have the life of their dreams and that's what I get to do with it.
How to unfuck yourself.
I love, you just need to write a book.
You just need to write a book on that because the thing at the moment is,
if you just put fuck in the title, you'll sell a million copies, right?
Because it's all the F words.
Who knew?
The word I've told you to never use is like the most profitable and powerful word I could.
My friend Colin, he's always wanted to be a writer and he was the first guest on Deep Drinks.
He's closeted for 45 years.
He met him in ministry college and now he's out and happy in a relationship.
And I said, you just need to write a book.
It doesn't matter what.
He's a great writer.
I'm like, just put something out there, but you just got to call it.
I'm fucking gay and then it will sell.
Like that's all you need to do.
Like we're in the time for it.
I've got a marketing background.
I know this will sell.
Yeah.
I love it.
Cool.
So just and also for everyone who is watching, we are doing, we got one more Deep Drinks at
this stage until we have the slavery panel on.
Let me just show it, but we're going to be talking about biblical slavery.
Does the Bible condone slavery?
And we're going to be sending out some, some shorts this week that I've got five ready
to go.
And we're going to be kind of getting these apologists to kind of forcing them to answer
the question.
This is going to be an amazing panel.
We've got five PhDs, all Bible scholars, all experts who are going to be discussing this
and coming up midway through the week.
Questioning Islam with critical faculty.
This will be a good episode as well.
It was a Muslim and now he's not.
And I imagine that if you went to a few countries, he would be sentenced to death.
So that'll be an interesting conversation to have.
So make sure you subscribe and make sure you check out the patron.
I also need to say guys, let me just, let me just excuse me for a second.
I don't have the link up, but we have a pope.
We have a pope.
So deep drinks, obviously, we have different, different memberships and the last membership
that you can get is the pope and it's only one and it's been sold out.
So this stream is actually sponsored by Papa Aaron.
Let me just scroll down and show everyone.
These are all the, so Papa Aaron Coulson, he is the pope of deep drinks and his stream
has been blessed by him and every stream from, from until he is no longer the pope
and another pope comes, comes in.
So thank you Papa Aaron for blessing this stream.
So guys, if you want to, if you want to join in, we've got a few more spots for the 12 founding members.
So if you want to become a member of deep drinks, make sure you go patron, make sure you go subscribe.
So yeah, Nicole, I have a few random questions for you.
I hope you're ready.
I'm ready.
I'll start off with a, I'll start off with a fun one that I asked a lot of guests,
but I wasn't going to ask you, but I think it's, it's probably your,
your introspective enough that I think it might be an interesting answer.
What is the most plausibly true religion you don't believe in?
Oh my God.
Wow.
This is going to sound silly and it's not a religion, but I'm like science because I wasn't taught like
real science growing up.
I was taught like Christian science.
Like God was the reason for everything.
I was never taught like actual science and like my partner is brilliant in all things science and he'll literally like do diagrams for me on a whiteboard.
Like here's Adams, here's cells, here's how they interact, here's how they create this and here's how they create that.
And every time I watch it, Malika, hi, thank you my love, love you.
Every time I'm like, oh my God, that makes so much sense.
And yet I still have this reservation to believe it because I've been taught to fear science.
So science is probably my religion.
And yet I'm still grappling with totally wrapping my head around it.
Well, that's, that's great.
Did, did, did he ask the question a while ago, but he said, were you a young earth creationist or someone asked a question?
Were you a young earth creationist at one stage?
Yes.
Was it, was it wild when you, because I was the same.
Was it wild when you started learning about like evolution, but not from the church where it was like.
Yes.
I mean, I still get sweats over it.
When people start talking about evolution, I'm like, because I was taught evolution was a bad word.
And it was all fake and all made up.
And I still like break out in sweats and like, oh wait, this isn't bad.
This isn't wrong.
This is like actually accurate.
And like, it's okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
I have this funny story actually.
I, I got a huge tax return one year and sort of my wife and we're like, all right, we're going to put our money towards our house,
but we're going to both take like 500 bucks and we're going to spend on whatever we want.
And I think I spent like $500 all on books.
I just ordered so many books.
And there's this old trope going around that, that Hitler was an atheist, right?
That Hitler was an atheist.
And that's why he did everything that he did, which is, couldn't be further from the truth.
In fact, in Mein Kampf, he says, I believe I am doing the work of the almighty creator in exterminating the Jew.
Horrible.
Disgusting.
So I ordered a copy of Mein Kampf because I wanted to have it to be able to pick it up and point people to the button.
Like, he says he's doing it on behalf of God.
So I ordered this book, right?
Because it's just like, it's there.
I ordered it with a bunch of other books.
And when it arrives, I'm sitting there opening amongst my religious family and I open it.
I'm opening the books and I say, oh, and I remember it.
And I go, I said, guys, just know that there is a book in here that's, that's evil.
And I was like, I don't want you to judge me for it.
And then one of them said, is it a book on evolution?
I was like, well, yeah.
There are some books on evolution, but it's actually not.
It's Mein Kampf.
It's a, it's a sort of long story.
Oh, yeah.
And I have to be clear.
I have it for references.
And I even hid it in the back here because I don't want people to think that I endorse that scumbag or anything.
It's a historical thing for me.
Nidhi asked, if your kids are approached to believe in Jesus to get saved, what will you say to them?
Oh, they are because some of my family members have access to them and who believe, you know, my children need to be saved.
And so it's really, that's right.
It's pretty complicated, but they've asked me like, mom, do you believe in God?
And I've said to them, like, you know, I used to, now I'm not so sure.
What do you, what do you believe?
Sorry, my kitty's knocking over my tripod.
And cause my, my job as my parent is to keep my kids connected to their body and to their knowing because I was taught to be disassociated, disconnected, to listen, trust everyone outside of me and not my own chute.
So I'm always pointing it back to my kids.
Or like, even like the tooth fairy, they're like, mom, do you believe in tooth hair or Santa Claus?
Mom, do you believe in Santa Claus?
I'm like, oh, I used to when I was a kid, but I don't anymore.
What about you?
Yeah, I think he's real.
Am I cool?
Like, I just want them to stay connected to that knowing, and if they make comments like, oh, hell, you know, something about hell, I'm like, oh, you know, it's so funny.
I used to believe hell exists.
I don't believe it exists anymore.
Like I try to plant seeds because I know if I try to like, that's not true.
Don't listen to them.
That like tends to make people dig in their heels.
Right.
I just should like, I used to think that I don't think anymore.
And the whole time I'm like, you know, cause I don't want them to believe that stuff.
I don't want them to think they need to be saved.
Why, what do they need to be saved from?
They're perfect.
They're whole. They're divine.
They're complete.
They're total bullshit.
They're saved.
But if people are telling them that, I can't just outright come again.
So I'm just like, oh, I used to think that, but I don't think that anymore.
What do you think?
And hope it just keeps the door open for communication and dialogue.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm the same.
And in regards to that, like with children, it's like, I was asked by a family and friends, like, do you, would you mind if we took them to church and stuff?
And at the start, I was like, yeah, no, I got no problem.
And then I was like, ooh, I thought about it a bit more.
And I was like, hmm.
And I was like, I don't want them learning about hell or that they need to be saved.
Like that there's something inherently that they've come that they created sick come on to be sound.
I don't like that idea.
And I don't like the idea that they're, you know, they're taught that, you know, science is a liar sometimes and all this stuff.
So I was like, ooh, but then I thought, actually, what's probably better is we're going to be big travelers.
We already are big travelers.
We're going to be traveling around.
We've got our temples.
These people believe that, you know, you're, you get reincarnated as, you know, you remember, you know, back home with our friends and family.
They believe that, you know, you need Jesus.
And we're just going to pump them so much, so full of knowledge that, that none of these like fear based tactics can like take, grab hold.
And so telling them something's wrong.
When people say that, like, are you okay with like me taking your kids to church?
I'm like, yeah, are you okay with me taking your kids to an atheist camp?
And you know what they're going to say?
No, it's a double standard.
If you can teach your, if you want to teach my kids about Christianity, why can't, or can I talk to your kids about sex work?
It's like, so I, so I, that's what I would say to them.
It's like, if you want to be able to do that, then how do you feel if I do this?
And if it's a no for you to know for me, because that's, you're not actually caring about educating them and informing them of their choices.
It's about indoctrinating them.
And that's not what I got available for that.
Hmm.
Neela 604 atheists asked, if you were approached by me asking to come on my show, what would you say?
Probably.
Yes.
I could probably check out your account and check you out.
And if David vouches for you, that always helps.
I've been on Neela 604's atheists channel.
He's, it's great.
It's good fun.
I love it.
He's a cool guy.
So yeah, I guys send her an email and if that doesn't work, send her another email.
Yeah.
David that, like, I get so many tips that my email, my DMs get buried and there's some,
I'll see them.
I totally want to do that.
And then it gets buried and then I will never find it again.
I'm like, if they would just send me a follow up email, I would see it and I could respond.
So persistence pays off, not harassment, not stalking, but persistence.
Yeah.
And I tried to be very polite.
You like probably eight emails or something.
But first, can you come on second?
Like, I'm sorry.
I missed that thing.
Oh my God.
I'm so embarrassed.
I'm, I'm so sorry.
And then six months later, I'm really sorry.
Would you give me another chance?
And then obviously there's some, some scheduling as well.
But yeah, I think just being polite and stuff and Nicole's a great person.
So what would you give to your younger self if you could go back in time?
Oh, my first I was like, I just want to hug her and I just want to say you're right.
Like these desires you have and these questions you have and this knowing you have, you're right.
Because I feel like all I'm doing now is fulfilling everything I wanted back then.
These desires and these questions and this, this interest and this curiosity that I was
taught to be ashamed of and to suppress.
I was like, you're right, honey.
Listen to it.
Do it.
You're going to be okay.
That's great.
That's great.
That's really, that's really great.
Regarding, and I guess this is the last question if anyone else has any super chats.
Regarding your belief in God.
Now, obviously your belief in God has changed a lot.
What, if anything, would change your mind?
Bring you back to the old perspective you used to hold.
If Christians became the most loving people on the planet and they support sex workers
and they support LGBTQ people and they support equality and they fight their anti racist and
like, that's never going to happen.
Jesus will come back.
Jesus will come back before that happens.
If you became all that, I'm in baby.
I'm in, but not a moment sooner.
I love that you start with your advocating for human rights.
Like I love that.
I love that.
That's your heart and it really comes through.
Thank you.
Nicole, it's been absolutely fantastic having you on.
Thank you so much.
Is there anything else you wanted to say before we finish up this clip or finish up this episode?
I just want to say thank you for having me and thank you for hosting this conversation.
I hope it makes people think and reflect and shift and shed layers of shame or hesitation
and step into their true selves.
I don't know if we're going to be reincarnated.
I don't know, but I do have this one life and so I really hope that the people who are
listening really go after it and live the life of the dreams because they deserve it
and I do really believe it's available.
Even if you are in a religion that maybe does squash some of your sexual desires,
still trying to enjoy it as much as possible.
Enjoy whatever you are out in life.
Nothing's ever perfect.
Enjoy your life while you can.
That's the advice I give myself all the time.
Have fun.
It's an amazing life that we're living.
Agreed.
Amen.
Amen.
Neil deGrasse passing bless.
Thank you, Aaron.
Bye, Baron.
See you guys.
Bye.
Bye.
