Welcome everybody to Deep Drinks podcast, the deepest podcast on the internet and today
we have a very special guest. I'm always super excited when I can talk to a Christian, especially
a Christian that used to be in the same kind of realm of denomination as myself. Eric Manning
runs the YouTube channel, the popular YouTube channel, Testify Apologetics, where he focuses
mostly on the reliability of the New Testament, the history of the resurrection of Jesus,
the uniqueness of Jesus, and the argument from miracles. Eric is a Pentecostal Christian
and today we'll have an open and hopefully friendly conversation. I'm sure it will be
friendly. He's a nice guy. I really enjoyed seeing how Eric engaged with Derek from MythVision,
so I invited him on. For those who don't know, I was once a Pentecostal youth pastor, I spoke
in tongues, felt what I described at the time as the Holy Spirit and believed in miracles.
My opinion of all those things is almost the polar opposite. Therefore, it should be an
interesting conversation. Let's get started.
Welcome, Eric. Thank you for coming on DeepRig's podcast.
Yeah. Thanks, David, for having me on. Appreciate it.
So are you nervous? You're in the lion's den. You're in the realm of the enemy.
I'm in the hot seat. Yeah. What am I going to do? I'm shaking in my socks here.
So can you tell us a little bit about your channel before we jump into it? Because I'm
sure it will be a very interesting conversation. Yeah. I mean, I think you covered it pretty well.
I just mostly talk about like the reliability of the Gospels. I've just always really enjoyed
history. Even when I was back in high school, it seems like, of course, I have a neighbor
mowing their yard right now, so I hope that doesn't go too much. That's like, I can't hear.
But I just was always drawn to history. Even when I was in high school, I was actually a pretty
poor student, but I could basically be asleep or halfway stoned and still get an A in history,
not really study. So I just enjoy history. So that's kind of what I talk about with
my channel is kind of the text, the, is the New Testament historically reliable,
different things like that, the focus on the resurrection of Jesus. And then, of course,
the argument for miracles is so entangled, because as you know, a lot of people will say you could
just never have enough evidence to prove anything based on testimony alone. And so
that's basically what I, what I focus on with the channel.
Yeah, it's, I really enjoyed, I think you do, you do really well. You have a really good balance
between clickbait titles and producing content that lives up to that clickbait. I mean, obviously,
never really, never, never fully lives up to everything, not just your channel, but everyone's
channel with the, captures the attention and it's not like horrible clickbait. It's not like
really misleading. You gotta, you gotta clickbait these days. You gotta, it's part of the game.
You gotta do it. That's why I got an image of a retro looking like a, like a, like a retro looking
Jesus and the thumbnail of this, because it was like, it's kind of like Pentecost Christianity
seems to be like the cool Christianity. It seems to be like it's definitely like up there compared
to like Anglicans and Methodists and things like that. It's like, it's like the hip Christianity.
It's like Hillsong. It's like, you know, it's, it's got the, it's got vibe to it. So yeah.
It depends on your version of it, I guess. Maybe I'm kind of old school. We wear suits to church.
Yeah, we, it's not a, we're not the cool hip Hillsong kind of a church, actually. I mean,
I'm not saying those songs never get played. And it almost has more, our church is music is almost
like more, you'd almost thought you, this is going to sound bad. I hope this doesn't sound
weird, but it's like you walked into more like a black Pentecostal church almost.
As far as the flavor of music, you got the B3 organ, just ring, you know, and
that kind of a thing. And so yeah, it's, it's not the jeans and Hillsong kind of stuff there,
but interesting. Yeah. Did you guys do the Appalachians, like the snake handling kind of stuff?
Oh yeah. You know, grabbing those, those wraps. Seriously? No.
I don't know that. No, no, no, no, no. I don't believe systems on this.
Yeah, yeah. No, we might wear suits. Yeah, we're not, we're not handling snakes or anything like that.
But yeah, no, that's the extreme Appalachian. I don't know what's going on there. I don't,
I've never met one of those people in real life. No, neither. It'd be interesting.
So I just want to quick shout out. Thank you, Pragmatic Christopher, for demolishing that
like button everyone. Captain Deadpool. It's great to see you here. Joshua's awesome to see
here. Eddie, Kevin, Postacy, the amazing Postacy. And I hope I didn't miss anyone,
but it's awesome to see you guys come out. KCA, Randy, that's awesome. Hey, everybody.
So the first question I've got, I've written down so many things I want to talk about. And
I'm hoping this conversation can just go naturally where it flows. And I appreciate that you took
the time to come on here. I've asked a lot of apologists on a lot of the times they don't,
they don't get back to me or they just say they're not interested in coming on. I had one person
tell me that their leader looked at my channel and told me that they couldn't come on. And this was
like a 50 year old person. And I was like, okay, that's interesting. But I hope I can show that
I can, we can have a respectful conversation. And you know, even though we have a very different
belief systems. So I want to ask you, firstly, is how did you, before you got interested in
apologetics and before you run your YouTube channel, like how did you initially start
believing in God? Like what was the catalyst for your faith? Did you grow up religious or
did you? Oh, how did that happen? Yes, and then no. So I was raised cat cat. Go ahead.
I should mention, what are we drinking? Lemon water, because you know, us Pentecostals, we're
big drinkers, you know. Yeah, sorry. Yeah, no, actually, we don't really, I don't have a doctrine
against drinking alcohol. And I just personally don't. And that's kind of part of my story. My
parents were, well, I don't want to make them look bad, but they kind of had problems with it
as I was growing up. And so I just kind of promised myself, like, it's just not something,
I don't think there's anything wrong with it. Yeah, I just from for me, it's just a personal
deal. But most people are just fine, whatever, I just there's other situations that people
have been around. And so, thankfully, my dad has been sober for, for several years now. So that's,
that's awesome. But yeah, I was raised Catholic. And I was like, had my first communion in the
Catholic Church. My parents were kind of like Catholic, but only I would say nominally so.
And my dad taught at like a Catholic school. We lived near our grandparents, we attended church
all together as a family. But once my dad got a job in the St. Louis area, and we moved there
from Michigan to St. Louis, Missouri, we stopped pretty much going to church, maybe Christmas,
maybe Easter, and that's about it. And so as I became a teenager, I started having, you know,
questions and doubts about God, I just kind of thought the whole evolutionary story was a
better explanation for how people got here. And then of course, there was a problem and a pain
in suffering. I'd grown up in a home that wasn't necessarily super to get had everything together.
And a lot of my friends kind of were from the same situation. I'll just kind of put it real
mildly. And just kind of ran around with a bit of a somewhat of a wild crowd, kind of getting
myself into trouble doing different things like that. And I just looked around and saw a lot of
brokenness. I lived in the St. Louis area, like I said, we had flooding. And that was just devastating
to the whole city. My mom had cancer when I was a teenager. And I just put all of these things
together. And I'm like, I'm suffering, my family suffering, my friends are suffering,
there's floods, there's hurricanes and earthquakes and all kinds of craziness. It seems like the
naturalistic kind of explanation of how we got here. This is the kind of world we would expect
if there is no God is basically what I came to think. And so I was an atheist for my teenage
years. I mean, I'm not talking about like, I'm reading Graham oppie and, and reading, you know,
like the sophisticated atheist or anything, or even I didn't even know this is before the days of,
you know, even Richard Dawkins and Sam Harris and Christopher Hitchens and all that popularized
atheism that was out there, right? I just kind of came to that conclusion just by looking around
at the world. And I spent about two years of my life that way. Just as an atheist, kind of,
I'd kind of go back and forth from atheism to agnosticism, thought, well, maybe it's possible
that there's a God, but I don't think that it's really knowable. And I just went back and forth
with that. I think in the middle of that, I kind of became dissatisfied with some of the answers.
And again, this is not deep philosophical stuff here. So I'm not trying to like, portray myself as
like a least robles kind of story here where I really studied the evidence hard and then came
to believe that Christianity was true or anything else like that. I just kind of thought, well,
I understand that the world is a bit of a mess and there is evil. But if there is like maybe
distance epistemically between me and God, that he obviously knows a whole lot more than I do,
then it is at least possible that there's reasons for this that are just beyond my
understanding. And I also kind of thought, well, even though origins can be probably explained by
evolution or different things like that, it sure seems like just the origination of the universe
is kind of hard to explain some of the beauty of it, some of the apparent design of it. Again,
I'm not saying anything super sophisticated, because I didn't know any of the sophisticated
arguments. I didn't know what a Kalam cosmological or teleological argument was. And so I thought,
well, maybe there is a God. But if there is a God, maybe deism is probably the closest thing
to that picture, because he seems like he's just standing far, far away. But I thought, if
there is a God, a deistic God doesn't make a whole lot of sense, because you would think
he would at least want to kind of like say hello, he would at least want to communicate something
at some point, like just a God who just kind of starts the world like winds it up like a clock
and then just lets it run just doesn't seem to make a whole lot of sense. And so there probably
would be some kind of a revelation if there was God. And so I didn't really want Christianity to be
true, to be totally honest. I kind of thought Christianity was kind of lame, the people that
I knew that were Christians, I just they felt like very stiff and rigid and funny that he had
some neighbors that were just their dad was like, the biggest hypocrite, I'd go over to their house
and hang out with them, they go to church on Sunday. And then we'd get into his his pornographic
magazines and he hid in his his sock drawer, you know, and it's like, yeah, I don't think there's a
whole lot of power changing this guy's life. And so I didn't want Christianity to be true because
of what I saw out of it. And just the way my dad was even kind of mistreated at his job. Anyway,
I feel like I'm rambling a little bit. But at any rate, I began to study different religions. I
looked at Islam briefly. Immediately, I was like, Yeah, this isn't it. And so I thought, well, I'll
just read the Bible. So I dug up the Bible that I was given at my confirmation as a Catholic,
and I just read it for months and months on end. Just I'd come home from school, I'd maybe read it
for half an hour or an hour. And then I'd go about and do the same normal kind of crazy things that
I normally would do. But I was at least kind of open. And I'd read the Gospels and I thought,
well, these stories are strange, because like, I love the Sermon on the Mount,
and these ethics that Jesus is bringing. And he seems like a very compelling character.
And sometimes he kind of looks like a jerk, you know, to be honest. And then sometimes he's, you
know, he's speaking to winds and waves, and he's, he's healing the sick. And that doesn't seem like
that could possibly even be real. And so I kind of had that anti miracle argument in the back of
my head, kind of running there, even though again, I didn't know what it was. But I just,
there was more of an openness as I continue to read, I suppose. And I kind of thought, well,
these Gospels sure seem to be presenting themselves as reported. I don't think that they're trying
to present a myth. And then I was reading the first John, and it talked about, we touched him,
we handled him, we saw him, that kind of thing, I'm just paraphrasing the first bit of first John.
And then as I kept reading, I got to the second chapter of John. And it was something about
first John or John? First John, first John, the epistle. Yeah, that's my favorite book.
Yeah. And so as I was reading that book, it said, don't love the world, the things of the world,
you know, less to the eyes, less to the flesh, the pride of life, which is, you know, I'm a teenager,
and that's kind of what I felt like I was going for, just whatever I felt like, kind of doing.
I'm not saying I didn't have any ethics or morals, but yeah, yeah. And so I just saw that I do love
the world. And it said that anybody who loves the world is going to perish, but,
you know, the person who does the will of God lives forever. And at that particular point,
and people can do with this, whatever they will, I'm not saying this is a very evidentially compelling
religious experience that people should believe just because I'm saying it, I'm just saying what
happened to me. It seemed as if there was another person who just stepped into the room with me.
And I just sense this overwhelming sense of what Christians would just call as conviction.
I felt like I couldn't really explain the experience that I was undergoing. And the
next thing I knew, I just found myself on my knees praying God to save me. And, you know,
I had the whole overwhelming sense of peace and burden lifted off my shoulder, kind of felt kind
of high in that, that fresh conversion bubble for several weeks. I just kind of saw people
through new eyes, through kind of more of a loving eyes where before people, the people at school
would just annoy me to death. And it just kind of changed my life. And it's just kind of been
changed from there. So no deep apologetics, none of that kind of stuff to be completely honest,
even though I like apologetics. But I think there was some of that apologetic kind of reasoning,
supposedly, I guess, in the background. And on both sides, I mean, even as an atheist, I was
reasoning philosophically in some sense with the whole problem of evil and whatnot. So I know
it was a bit long winded. Hopefully that wasn't more than you were asking for.
No, it was good. You know, I appreciate you being being honest. I had a very similar experience
with myself. I, you know, went to a youth group. I didn't really want to, like I was a Christian,
grew up a Christian, and I was getting involved in a church. But then when I moved up with my dad,
I kind of moved away from all of that. My dad has a history of alcohol abuse as well. And
he was sober at the time. So I went to this, I'm still sober now, which is awesome. But I went
to this youth group. And I had this experience where, you know, I didn't want to go up the front
for prayer, because I just, I just felt like I was, I was like, God, I'll get right with you when
I'm 40 or when I'm 50. And then all the youth that invited me, they came over to me and just prayed
for me kind of like, non-consensually, about the time I appreciated it. And I remember just looking
down eventually at a puddle of tears, they were prophesying things over me. I thought they couldn't
know. And yeah, for the next, like, six or seven weeks, I was just totally like, well, I wasn't
even six or seven weeks, it was more than that. But for like a weekend, I felt a little bit drunk
or a little bit euphoric, like a little bit different. And my friends at school and my,
then the bullies at school started calling me Captain Christian. And I claimed it like a title
and I would run Bible studies at school. And I was really on fire. And then a few years later,
I became the youth pastor of that youth group. And I just gave it my all. I obviously have a
different perspective of all that now. How do you see your experience in that? Has it changed at all
from what you first experienced? Like, when you first experienced it, you might have had an opinion
of it, but has it changed at all since then? I mean, I think it was genuine. And I kind of take
Richard Swinburne's kind of approach of like, if this is what you believe you're perceiving and you
don't have an undercutting defeater to say against it otherwise. And I look, it's not that I don't
look for defeaters or anything like that. That's what my channel is kind of focused on. But yeah,
I just don't feel like I have any reason to necessarily doubt that it was genuine. I've had
other experiences with like, I don't think that my experience, like I said, I'm not using it as
you should become a Christian because of my story. I don't think it's an evidentially compelling kind
of religious experience. I have had other experiences before where it was kind of like, okay, that
seemed a little more on the supernatural side of things. That one's a little more difficult to
explain. But yeah, so I guess I look at it for me is like, I could understand how somebody in your
shoes would just be like, you know, you know, people have those experiences, people have those
experiences in other religions, Mormons could claim a similar experience or something like that.
And so I think that's all I had. That's all I had. And there wasn't other evidence for Christianity
and other like defeating kind of objections came against it, then that I could see one rationally
justifying that what the experience wasn't real. Yeah, I was actually going to ask you if we could
go down that route of like, of analyzing it, if I could push back a little bit on how I kind of
see that now versus, are you comfortable doing that? Talking a little bit about those? Yeah, okay.
You know, obviously, these are things are very personal things. And so I try to be respectful.
But so, you know, how like, if, and you mentioned it just there, but my question would have been,
you know, if someone was to have the exact same experiences that you had, but for another religion,
would that be evidence of their religion? No, I mean, I would think it would be like,
weak evidence at best. So if a Mormon told me I prayed over the Book of Mormon, and I
sensed this overwhelming, you know, burning in the bosom or whatever the, I don't know if it's
second Nephi that that's what it says or something like that, I wouldn't necessarily take that as
evidence. And I don't think an unbeliever should really take that as strong evidence. I do think
there are such things as like evidentially compelling religious experiences. I'm trying to
remember the name of the philosopher who's published on it. It's on a friend of mine channel,
Jordan Hampton. I'll have to, it'll come back to me if I'll bring it up maybe later. But
he's published different ones where people will have like kind of a more of a compelling
type of experience or be in line with maybe modern day miracles or something like that.
So maybe like a healing or something like that, I would say that's far more compelling than just
I sense the presence of God or the peace of God or something like that. So I'll give you one example.
I'm not going to give it for my own life, but like there is a pastor. It's a pretty well known
story. You can look it up on the news. The man's name was Pastor Dieb, D-E-E-B. And he was in Beirut,
Lebanon, downtown close to where that giant explosion was. I don't know if you remember that
from the news, but it just completely like destroyed a huge part of downtown. And if I
remember correctly, he owns like his church runs like, I don't know if it's like a daycare,
some sort of childcare program or something like that. He has a bunch of employees. And the day
of the explosion, he was praying and he felt extremely unsettled, very, very, very unsettled.
And he didn't know why you didn't know what was going on. And you can like I said, you can look
up a story, Pastor Dieb, D-E-E-B Beirut and it'll come up. And he just told everybody go home.
Like, he was forceful about it. People were pushing back on it. Like, what are you talking
about? You're acting really strange. And he's like, just go home, close everything down. They're
like, we're making food, we're preparing all this stuff. It's like, I don't care, go home. Well,
then that explosion happened. And of course, that raises other questions about the problem of evil.
Like, why isn't God talking to everybody and warning them about that? And I do understand that.
But there is less evil, at least in the world, if he's warning somebody who at least is
trying to have their spiritual antenna up, so to speak, relate to God, be listening to him and
being able to warn a whole flock of people working at his church and children, sending them home
for the day. And so I find that to be at least moves the needle towards theism, at least somewhat,
versus like, it's certainly not evidence against it. And so, again, unless you want to bring the
problem of evil and, hey, why not more? Why did God let the explosion happen to begin with?
And again, I could kind of understand some of that. But those are the kind of stories that I would,
if I was to use that as evidence, religious experience as evidence, I would use more stories
like that. And not just one, I would want to bring in multiple to build a case.
Yeah, of course. Yeah. So just going back to your experience, and we'll swing around to this
experience. If you have this experience, and for you, it's evidence, but if you say it would be
weak evidence for somebody else, for like, if someone else had the same experience, I mean,
hypothetically, we can't really know if they're telling us the truth, will they tell us these
stories? Like, but let's say hypothetically, we could somehow tell that they had a similar
experience praying to Krishna, or Arjuna, or Buddha, or, you know, I take you don't consider
Mormons Christians. I wouldn't call them orthodox, so yeah, I would say they're heretical. Yeah,
yeah, yeah, for sure. So if like, so it would be weak evidence, would it be weak evidence for you
then? Or is it something? Well, I think for the person who's experiencing it, it might not be
weak evidence. But I think if that's all you have is your religious experience, and then you come up
against these defeaters, say the problem of evil, like kind of brought up a little bit, or if you're
a Christian, you know, what about contradictions or historical errors in the Gospels or something to
that effect? Well, then I think in order to be maintained being rational, I don't take the approach
of like reformed epistemology. And so I think that, okay, we need to find out
how do we answer these objections. Now, I'm not saying you have to answer every single objection
in order to your worldview to be coherent, you know, you're not going to be able to,
everybody's worldview has sticking points that they can't necessarily answer. But I do think that
you should have more going for your view than against it. So you would want to look at, say,
the historical reliability of the Gospels, which is what my channel is all about, you know. You
might want to look at how Christians have addressed the problem of evil. You may need to have
arguments for why you think God exists. I think I understand that, like it's a more
really cumulative approach, like it's like, yeah, but just in like just like analyzing the
evidence one at a time, like the evidence, if we were to look at the evidence and you would say
it's weak evidence for other religions, but not weak evidence for you. Or the person experiencing
it even or the person experiencing it. Yeah, yeah, the person experience. So would it be,
so would it be, would it be evidence of like the Buddha working in someone's life or Krishna or
something? Say you believe in a theistic Buddha or like some other God. Like I've had, I've got
friends who, I've got Muslim friends who, when we first became friends, it's because I reached
out to them and I saw their video editing was amazing. And I said, Hey, your video editing is
amazing. You got a good future ahead of you. I thought they were like 16. And I was just
giving some encouragement to like a kid turns out they're like 26. But anyway, that's that's another
story. And so we're not becoming really good friends. But, but the, but I said, you know,
what did you think when you first had this? She was wearing a hijab. And I said,
what do you think we first had this like random message you on your YouTube channel? And they
said, and she said, I thought you were a message from Allah. And she said that she, she, she attributed
my encouragement to Allah. What would you, I mean, that's just someone encouraging someone.
But what would you say to someone who felt the presence of felt like a warming presence or
a overwhelming feeling of joy or, or a wonder with Allah or another God? Sure. Again, I would say
that with without going to the cumulative evidence. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I would say, I mean,
it's, it's, I would say that they're rational, at least in thinking that that's what they experienced.
I think that
God can can kind of work even in spite of the way people think. And I think that's when we just
have to go also look at the objective evidence. It's like, for example, there are people who argue
for the resurrection of Jesus, right? And they'll use an approach that's completely based on 1st
Corinthians 15. And it's like the minimal facts approach. And they'll say, okay, well,
the disciples believe they saw Jesus. And Paul believed that he saw Jesus. And they converted.
And so the best explanation is that Jesus rose again from the dead. And it's kind of like,
well, what did they experience? What was their experience like? I don't know if they're rational
in order to justify that particular experience might have been real for them. And they were
sincere in believing it. But we need to know the details of their testimony in order to know
that they're rational. And so I think when it comes to any kind of religious experience, miracle
story, or any kind of supernatural story, for the lack of a better terms, like the devil is in the
details. And so we need to know some of the details of what was experienced. And if the details were
just something fuzzy, like I had a warm feeling, I had some kind of an epiphany, or something like
that, that I can understand. Now, I think that my experience is consistent on the Christian worldview,
because there is such a person as the Holy Spirit. He does say that he'll bear witness with your spirit
that we're the children of God. It does says that he'll send the Holy Spirit to live with you and
dwell in you and all of these different things. And so I think it's consistent. But again, I don't
take that as evidence. And I don't think that even the disciples were necessarily, they weren't saying,
hey, look at my experience necessarily in and of itself. I mean, even in the Book of Acts,
like Paul does talk about his vision. But when he talks about his vision in the Book of Acts,
he's talking about all of the multi sensory details that are happening, you know, people hearing a
voice and not understanding and his blindness for several days and he is healing him and different
things like that. And, or the disciples, he references like, hey, these people ate and drank
in his presence and this that and the other. And so I think you're going to need sturdier
details for any kind of miracle story in order to know if somebody is rational or justified. And so
yeah, and that's totally fine. I think that's part of any kind of evidential filter that we
should put through any claim is, is this a vague experience or is there something more concrete
here? Does that make sense? Yeah, that makes sense. So yeah, so that's where I so where I landed on
that for myself is I realized that other religions have personal experiences as well. In fact,
a family member had one with another religion that I at the time thought, ha, those demons are
getting very clever. They're like starting to emulate exactly what we're experiencing at church.
I actually thought I thought that for a while. You know, relative, they went to a prayer meeting,
but it was like a Tibetan prayer meeting with a very Eastern kind of religious thought. And they
ended up all like, I don't know, I think it was like, they all fell over laughing and they were
hysterical in hysterical for a while. And they were, she came home and just was talking about
like this experience, like, like exactly how I talked about youth group and youth camp. And I
remember thinking, oh, there must be like demons and stuff. But so for me, I kind of looked at that
and thought for myself, and this is part of my deconversion experiences, I deconstructing
experiences. I looked at it and said, if that's not evidence for them, like if it's not, if that's
not, if I don't think that evidence is valid for that belief system, then I can't make it valid for
my belief system. Like I think it's unfair to do that. I'm not denying that I had experiences. I
definitely had some experiences. But I mean, there are people who have experiences, you know,
there are millions of people who have experiences with alien abductions, yet I don't think they're
actually being abducted by aliens. Sure. I mean, I think there's an atheist philosopher by the
name of Susan Blackmore who says that she's had what she believes or she would describe as religious
experiences. And so yeah, I understand that totally. This is why I'm an evidentialist. And so
like I said, I understand that it can be justifying for the, for that particular person.
But I don't think a Christian should just stay and live off of their personal experience. I think
they need to have their faith more rooted in some sort of objective evidence through history and
different things like that. And so yeah, that's, yeah, that's the, that's, and that's, that's an
exciting thing to talk about. And we have a super chat from Niddy. Eric is at least cool with memes
and being nice when, you know, I'm not always nice. Hashtag working on it. That's awesome. Yeah.
Yeah. I did really appreciate the way you spoke with Derek. I think Derek was in the
lines at that time. It was like three Christians and just Derek just chilling there with two
Christians. I can't remember. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But that was a cool conversation. I like to see
conversations across the belief realm. And thank you Niddy for the super chat. Super appreciate that.
So yeah, so if we have those personal testimonies and then you were kind of talking about,
and we can get into the historicity a little bit as well, but you're talking about like other
testimonies or like miracles. So, but for me, the same issue, the same issue comes about,
like the same issue, like we have, you know, you have that story of a person in Beirut who,
you know, had this intuition that told him send all the kids home. Like,
I could just throw the same question. Like, if that happened of another religion, would that
be evidence of that religion? Like, um, I mean, I do know that people like, well, we'll say this,
kind of like, people are going to clip clip this and make you look. Yeah, no, no, no, it's fine.
It's fine. People bring this up as a hypothetical. But yeah, this is like, what about miracles and
other religions? And I'm just kind of like, okay, so what about them? You know, and so I have no
problem looking at other miracles in a case by case basis. But for like a hypothetical situation,
like I don't really know, I see way more of miracles in a Christian context, which I mean,
could make sense even from a naturalistic standpoint, they expect miracles, the whole
religion is based on miracles, you know, whereas Islam, even Allah was just kind of like, Hey,
guys, I'm just a water, you know, that you only get told later into the Hadiths that does,
you know, Muhammad start really doing the fun stuff hundreds of years later. And so
I totally get that objection. I just like, you're going to have to give me like specifics.
And then we can look at the specifics. And I think when we do look at specific miracle claims,
I think we can run them through like a couple of like non, like non religious, like religiously
neutral filters, and see if they are plausible or not. And yeah, we could do that. Yeah. And so
it's kind of like, and even those, like I'm not even saying that they didn't happen. I'm just saying
that if we don't want to go herring after every miracle claim when we just be wasting our time.
But if some can run go through like a religiously neutral filter, then I think, okay, well,
let's investigate that. Let's see where that takes us, whether than just doing like David
Hume does where it's just like, well, you know, the prior probability is just so low and people lie
and are mistaken all the time. So let's just run with that. I'm saying, no, let's let's look at the
evidence, but let's just use some reasonable criteria. Yeah. And we, and I'd love to talk
about humor as well. I'm Daddy Hume, I call him. He's one of my favorite philosophers. Funny story.
So before I was a four, and maybe, and maybe you could read into maybe you can clip me,
if you believe in spiritual stuff or and stuff. But you know, when I was, when I was in Scotland,
I was considered myself a Christian still, but I was questioning definitely like questioning my
faith and like trying to expand my worldview. And we went on this tour in Edinburgh, and we rubbed
this toe of this statue, which was like the tradition at the time, and I rubbed this toe.
And apparently you meant to get the philosophical, you get a philosophical powers of if you rub his
big toe, it was the statue of David Hume. I didn't know who it was. Years later, I'm like an atheist,
and I'm like, I love David Hume, blah, blah, blah. And I'm like looking at statues of David Hume,
and I'm like, I recognize that statue. I go back through our old photos, like that's the statue
of the toe that we rubbed in Scotland. Don't do it. You touch the hem of his garment.
Yeah, virtue has flowed out of him and skepticism ran through you. Yeah. I think I know it's that
you're referring to because I when you look up Hume, like I'm Canva or something, it's one of the
ones. Yeah. Yeah. Just say everyone, I'm trying to keep really invested in this conversation,
because it's unlike most conversations, it's very challenging, because it's so I'm missing a little
bit of comments. So, but I appreciate your comments. So, but if you really want a question
answered, or if you want a question answered, you can add deep drinks, because then it'll
pop up and make it easy for me to see. But if you really want a question answered, the only
way is super chat. It's the only way I can keep these these conversations going, and make sure
that I that's the best way to support this channel as well. And the best way to get your
question answered. But I'll try and get to them if you go at deep drinks and anything. I think
I've tagged your comment to ask later. So, but thank you again for all the comments. I really
appreciate it. So, so when it comes to like other religions and you know, analyzing like a
miracle, we could go through some miracles now, but I feel like if I was to tell you like the
perfect miracle for like some other religion, you don't I don't know if you like it wouldn't
it once again, it'd be it's a cumulative case for you, right? It's like you wouldn't accept that as
evidence for that religion. I don't know. I mean, it's depends. I mean, I think we should have it
open mind. I don't I don't think Christians should just be like close ourselves off to other
evidence. I'll give you an example. I'm a Protestant obviously in Pentecostal. It's
Protestant denomination. But I will say that investigating and this might get some of my
Protestant friends upset with me, investigating some of the claims about the miracles happening
at lords. Okay, that's still that's a Catholic context Lord's lords France. Yeah. And so
they do the Catholic Church does use some pretty stringent criteria before they approve any kind
of like mirror. Yeah. And I know I understand it's still a Christian context technically.
Because I'm not saying Catholics are not Christians. That'd be stupid. Some people go that far. I
definitely absolutely do not. But yeah, like, some of those miracles are pretty well evidenced in
my opinion. Some are definitely not. Like people ask me all the time, Well, what do you think about
like, say, Mary and apparitions? Well, some are interesting. Some are a little bit on the vague
side of things. And some just don't move the needle for me whatsoever. And so it's not like I'm
like completely closed off to to miracles and different belief systems. Catholicism in my view
stream and are very, very different. And that would require an extreme change on my end, maybe
not as extreme to going from like Christianity to Islam or something like that. But I'm just saying
like, I don't think that the Christian has to be closed off to that kind of evidence. It's just
just show it to us. Let us know where it is. I'm looking. And I'm, I just haven't seen it yet.
There's hypotheticals that get thrown at me. But never anything concrete.
What about, I mean, a famous case in Mormonism in is the golden plates, you know, we have,
I think it's was a 12 people saw the golden plates and four of them saw the Angel Moroni
or just give or receive or something. They saw the angel there in the room,
taking or giving the old golden plates. And even when they left the Mormon church,
they wrote affidavits, swearing that they saw what they saw. How would you?
They did. Yeah, with that particular meeting, if you actually look into the history of it,
it's very interesting. Joseph was basically like, Hey, we have this appointment with the Angel. I
mean, it's basically, it's a setup. There's kind of an expectation that something is already
happening. We don't know anything about the contents of the actual plates, other than what
Joseph Smith's reportedly, reportedly translated, which the more details we get about that information
he was using a seer stone and basically looking at a rock and a hat. Oh, yeah, silly. Word for
working James. And there's all kinds of silliness there. We don't know what they saw. Okay, so they
did say that they saw something. And this is a good question. I really appreciate you bringing
it up. Bart Ehrman brought this up in his debate with Justin Bass. Yeah. And, and I thought Justin,
go ahead. Yeah, he didn't do a very good, you have to. Yeah. Okay. Like, I watched that and I was like,
I was going to make a video of like the most dishonest apologists I've ever seen, like,
because it was like Ken Ham, almost Ken Ham levels of like ridiculousness.
I'm working on a video over it right now. And I, you know, Bart, Bart ate him for,
for lunch and spit him out. The only thing that he did poorly on is he's like, well, you know,
he did the Hume thing. And I'm like, no, no, no, no, no, like, that's no good. But
everything else, I was, I didn't think Bass did very well. And I don't know, I'm working on a
video on it. It's just taken longer than I had anticipated. But no, we don't know details. Like,
what, what was the experience like with the angels? Did they touch him? Did they eat with
him? Did the angel eat food in front of them? Like, like we read about in the Gospels or
different things like that. We only know that they said that they saw something, but we don't know
any details for what they saw. So anytime we have a vague miracle report with lacking details,
then I think we're rational to at best, be agnostic about it, and just say, hmm, I don't
really know about that. That's that's how where I'm at with a lot of these
Marian apparitions is just like, it's a little vague. That's a little weird. I can't just completely
dismiss it. But at the same time, like, there's not a lot of real concrete details,
there's people getting healed at Lord's. So that makes me think something's going on. But that's
about it. Yeah, but there's like, I mean, if you look at the Lord's thing, and just so I don't,
oh, yeah, I have it here. I might as well pop it up. There's this place in, let me just
share this term. So there's this place in France, and they have like a miracle healing pool or
something near this Mary, and people, millions of people flock here per year, I think it is.
But if you if you run the numbers, like this is what I've heard, if you run the numbers on like the
the amount of people who go and the amount of people who have the church say that they
it's like a divine, it's like a miracle, if you run the numbers, it fits almost perfectly with
what you'd expect from spontaneous remission of diseases like cancer. Yeah, I don't necessarily
disagree with you in some sense there, with a lot of them, like the numbers are crazy, right?
And I think anything with the miracle with miracles, you're not going to expect them to just
pop up all the time everywhere. Okay, the whole one big purpose of miracles, besides just helping a
person, is that they can serve as a sign, right? And so they're supposed to in the backdrop of
normal nature, they're supposed to deviate in order to get our attention, right? So if they're
happening all the time, people could just say, I do understand the natural remission kind of
objection. The Catholic Church, because of the charges of superstition, that they were
from Protestants and others were just like, y'all are just making stuff up, they do have a pretty
strict criteria called the Lambertine, I almost said Lamborghini criteria, that would be exciting,
Lambertini criteria, which talks about that the disease has to be very serious, it has to have
be medically impossible to cure. The disease has to be instant, complete, and that there can't be
like treatment that was needed afterwards or anything else like that. And it can't gotta,
you know, be progressively worse. I'm probably messing some of this stuff up. But there's
several criteria that they run through. And they run through lots of different doctors and
different things. The most recent one, I just watched the story on it. It was an older woman,
she had some, I can't remember words, healing 70th miracle. What is her name?
Forgive me. Sister Bernadette Moreau. Her story was actually on 60 minutes and people can look
it up if they want to, I'm not going to go through all of it, they can just kind of search it out.
Her situation, she was wheelchair bound, fully disabled since 1980. She was on morphine.
She felt like a surge of something going through her body. And then she could move,
she didn't need the medication anymore, she didn't wheelchair anymore, she didn't need braces anymore.
She was looked at by like 60 different doctors. And so it's kind of ridiculous. And so people
are welcome to look at that kind of story. I do understand where you're coming from though,
because tons of people flock there. And very few people do have that. So I will say that that
pushback does have at least some force with me. But there are at least 70 cases that have been
officially recognized by the church that have gone through this criteria. And they're surprisingly
rigorous, probably more rigorous than some of your audience might think of what they accept.
There's a lot of people that have what I would say, that's probably a miracle. And they're like,
we're not going to publish that one. It's not evidentially compelling enough where we don't
want to look back here. And that makes sense. It's the bread and butter. That's what that whole
place is for. And we can get into Hume, but I want to bring up some other examples.
So we've got Mormonism, which I don't know if that's so pejorative, but we've got the Mormon
faith. And with the golden plates and the angel, and it seems like the only thing you can kind of
say is kind of point to the vagueness of the... But these people swore an affidavit. They wrote
an affidavit even after they left the church saying that what they saw is what they saw.
Well, sure. And that's why I would think like a minimal facts argument for the resurrection is
weak. Paul and the disciples really thought they saw Jesus. Okay, they did. We can grant that as
a skeptic. You could say, sure, they were sincere. Maybe they really think they saw something.
But I don't know what they saw. What was the experience like? So my argument is a little
bit different. I'm arguing like, hey, these claims that the disciples that are written in the
Gospels go back to what the disciples made, that they spent 40 days with them. They ate with them.
They talked to him. They touched him. There was multi-sensory extended across time kind of details.
So that's a little bit different than a brief visitation of an angel that was
with no explicit details about golden plates that suddenly apparently disappeared that somebody...
Well, that will be evidence, wouldn't it? That would be that they disappeared. That's like the
point. Right. I'm saying that it's very weak. And so therefore, it's not worthy of investigation.
I'm not even saying like nothing happened. I don't know what they saw. I'm saying that it's not
worth my time investigating because there's no details. This Bernadette person that I'm bringing
up, even though I'm a non-Catholic, to me is worth investigating because there's a lot of
evidence with doctors and research and what happened. So there's kind of a parody here.
Does that make sense? Yeah. With the Mormon situation, it seems, for me, I'm just trying to
give you my reasoning at the end of each little section. But I see a lot of what the Mormons
believe to be... I hope this isn't offensive to any Mormons either, but very silly.
With Native Americans being cursed by God with the red skin and all that stuff. And just the
history and Casey Arandi said the plates were reformed Egyptian, just things like that.
Where you're like, okay, this is a bit silly. And that makes it harder for me to believe that
even if there was this story of an angel, it makes me hard to believe the cumulative case
because of the silliness of it. And that's actually how I feel a little bit about Christianity.
And especially the atonement for sin and the ideas behind Jesus sacrificing himself to himself
to serve as a loophole for rules that he created that he can't circumvent. For me, I take a cumulative
case of Christianity. And I think the reason apologetics have a job in the first place is
because a lot of it, you have to make sense. A lot of it is very hard for the 21st century
person who understands evolution, understands big bang cosmology to look at and go, okay,
how do we reinterpret Genesis one? How do we reinterpret the slavery passages? How do we
reinterpret? So for me, I kind of do the same thing that you're doing, but I extend it out to
Christianity. Well, not the same thing you're doing. Sorry, the thing that I'm doing with Mormonism
due to Christianity. Yeah, no, I would say that that lowers the prior probability
of Christianity being true in the sense of like, okay, what do we make of the slavery passages or
evolution or different things like that? And how do we reinterpret Genesis? I mean,
I think there's always been a variety of different ways that people have interpreted
Genesis. I mean, even Augustine was like, no, like, it's not six days, God just created it all at
once, you know, and there's been other views, like it's Young Earth creationism has never
really been a dominant view until it really kind of stems out of what's the Seventh Day Adventism
is where it really kind of took Christianity by storm, unfortunately. But it's not really
been always the dominant view of the church. I think Luther held to Young Earth creationism, but
it's not always been a dominant view. So yeah, but I do want to understand what you're saying.
Those considerations do lower the prior when you see like maybe moral atrocities or scientific
conundrums or whatever. And so then, yeah, you're going to need good evidence for Christianity
in the posterior to overcome any sort of like lower prior for you, if that makes sense.
Yeah, that makes sense. Well, I'll give you one more miracle example. And I've got a few here,
but I want to kind of touch some of the things before we finish. But we still have people alive
today that you could go talk to who claim to have been resurrected from the dead by
Sathya Sai Baba or at least be related to him, related to the people who were
resurrected by him or saw miracles by him. Again, when Sathya Sai Baba died, do you know
who that is, by the way? Yeah, he had a lot of like, like clearly conning people, not conning
people, but clearly like he had a bunch of like watches in his like, yeah, yeah, I play a clip
of him manifesting a little watch. And it's basically doing the thing that your grandpa
did, you know, he's pulling a quarter out from behind your ear, you know, yeah, again, silly.
But people believed it. There's a million people who followed him. And this is a testimony.
I won't read the whole thing. Essentially, Radha Krishna, Radha Krishna died. I'll just skip,
skip stuff, dive, the death thread, blah, blah, blah, blah. On the morning of the third day,
his body was more, more ever like a corpse, dark, cold, quite stiff in the beginning,
just beginning to smell. Other people came to see in sympathizers, this is Radha Krishna,
that she should have the corpse removed from the ashram. But she replied, not less Swami,
this is Sathya Sai Baba, orders it. So even some went, even went to the Baba and suggested that
as the man was dead and the body starting to smell, smelling and of decomposition,
it would either be sent back to Kappam or cremated in Puttapathi, Swami replied, we'll see.
We'll skip downstairs. Actually, we'll just continue. When Mrs. Radha Krishna went upstairs
again to tell Baba what people were saying to her and asked him what she must do, he answered,
do not listen to them. Yeah, and fear and have no fear. I am here. Then he said,
he will come down soon to see her husband. She went downstairs again and waited with her daughter
and a son-in-law by her body. The minutes dragged by an hour passed, but Swami did not come. Then
they were beginning to despair entirely. The door opened and there's still Baba and red
robe. Kopi's fair and shining smile. It was then half past two in the afternoon of the third day.
Mrs. Radha Krishna went towards Baba and burst into tears. Vijaya had been crying. Then they were
like Martha and Mary, the sisters of Lazarus weeping before their Lord, who they thought came too late.
Gently Baba asked the tearful woman and sorrowful son-in-law to leave the room. As they left,
the door was closed behind them. They did not know. No man knew what happened in that room
where they were. Only Baba and the dead man. After a few minutes, Baba opened the door
and the beckoning, the waiting ones in. There on the bed, Radha Krishna was looking at them and
smiling. Amazingly, the stiffness of his death had vanished and his natural colour was returning.
Baba went over, stroked the patient's head and said to him, talk to them. They are worried.
Why are you worried? I am all right. I am all right. You are here. Oh my gosh.
I am all right. You are here. Sorry. So when we turn to his wife, I have given you your husband
back to you. He said, now get him a hot drink. So I mean, that's like, that's a testimony written
down. And this is like one of many and people you can still talk to today who experience like miracles
and some of them are those slot of hand miracles. But there are people who experience these,
you know, resurrections and these miracles from Sathrasai Baba.
I mean, if it was a raising from the dead, I mean, I would want to know a little bit more details.
Was there like, were they confirmed dead? Or different things like that? I don't know. Like,
I would just want to know more details. I want to know more about it. How do they know that they
were dead, that kind of thing? Was there a doctor where they confirmed dead? Who are these people?
You know, and why should I think that they're telling the truth? The things with like watches
and different things like that, that's a little bit easier because it's obviously
Sathrasai Baba was like, when he was dead, like they went into his room, there was
like gold bars and all kinds of like money stashed into his room and different things like that.
Obviously, he seemed like a pretty self-serving guy doing trivial little things like that. Now,
a resurrection from the dead. No, that's not trivial. That's a little bit more outstanding.
I would just need to know more details. I guess I would just say, okay, that's possible. I'm not
going to necessarily rule it out. I just would like to know more. And so I'm not saying that it
didn't happen. I'm not saying that it did happen. I'm not dismissing it just strictly on theological
grounds. I just would like to know more. Just like, I think a skeptic would like yourself,
want more details like, who are these people? Who is telling me this? How do they know that he was
dead? And so on and so forth. And so without those details, I don't know. But it is more
interesting than him pulling a watch out of his sleeve or... Yeah, yeah. And you should go watch
his stuff on YouTube. It's hilarious. He does like, he'll have like nothing in his hand and he'll be
like, ooh, then the gold chain will come out. And it's so mundane that he does it. He's just going
through the crowd just doing it. And everyone's like, oh, he's making gold appear. And it's like,
yeah, I don't know. It's bad. So I look at that and I turn to Daddy Hume. I turn to Hume and I say,
no testimony is sufficient to establish a miracle unless a testimony be of such a kind
that it's falsehood will be more miraculous than the fact which it endeavors to establish.
We must always, we must always decide to favor the lesser miracle. And I saw your video and
I'll just post this in chat because this is my favorite quote. But I saw your video on David Hume
and I appreciate it. I liked it. I thought I had some good criticisms. However, I don't
actually see an issue with it with how I view what David Hume says. A lot of people argue about
David Hume a lot. They talk about his, essentially his argument against like using the stable order
of nature. Just to me, that's not what, that's not the part that was amazing for me with David
Hume. And I think like, I could even see some criticisms there being valid, that we shouldn't
just take what David Hume said there and then say, well, nature says that, you know, miracles
never happen. Therefore, miracles never happen. I think that's silly. And I don't think that's
what David Hume was really saying, but I'm not a human philosopher or anything. But what I will
say is it seems, it seems very much like that in this situation is it's like, what's more likely
that someone was mistaken that, like you said, like that this person was dead, wasn't dead,
or someone's making up a story, or the story's been adapted over the years, or it's something else
going on, or that Sathrasai Baba, the guy that we know, he's run on this miracles scheme, is
creating these, is actually healing people. And, you know, he prophesied his death, and then he
didn't come back when he said he was going to come back, and all those things. So, but then I,
but then I guess we both will agree there, but I guess where I don't, I then extend that to
Christianity as well. And, and just hear me out for a second. So I look at Christianity, we have
numerous stories of apocalyptic preachers in first century Palestine. We have numerous stories of
dying and rising gods, they're all through history, in different countries and different places.
We have thousands of God that cannot be verified, that cannot be verified, but require faith.
And we have billions of people who believe in separate deities, even unto death. So think of
9-11, think of the early apostles, you know, the people who flew themselves into buildings,
they had more faith than 90% of 99% of the Christians, Muslims that exist, they truly
believed they were going to a better place. And so I look at it, and I go, is it more likely that
Christianity is another phenomenon of religious conviction, as valid in describing objective
reality as every other belief system that I mentioned, or that Christianity is actually
the one true interpretation of the universe. And I look at it, and I go, I don't see Christianity
being that much more valid. I don't see why we can't take Cume's criteria with the stories about
Jesus, and then we can with everything else. Sure, well, I would just say that any kind of
like initial prejudice against miracles, any reason that we would want to assign like low
probability of miracles can't be greater than the rational prejudice greater small against
the conjunction of two claims, that there is possibly a God that atheism could at least
conceivably be false. And that if there is such a God that he wants to possibly, he has like
destined us for some sort of an afterlife, and he has some sort of an important message in order to
tell us that there is an afterlife. And I don't think that if there is such a revelation, well,
then the prior probability of a miracle happening can't be zero. And so, because anybody can come
and say, hey, look, listen to me, I'm a prophet, follow me like Muhammad. But then when people say,
hey, work a miracle, prove it to us, he's like, I'm just a warner. Okay, guys, I'm not gonna do
anything. So in order to separate some apocalyptic preacher from somebody who's actually telling
you the truth, it doesn't need to be verified by a miracle. Now, that doesn't mean that we should
just accept miracle claims on bad evidence. We should require more evidence for miracles,
but not even in principally against the whole kind of slogan, extraordinary claims require
extraordinary evidence. As long as you define what extraordinary evidence looks like, right.
And in Hume's case, it seems to me like he's saying testimony ain't it.
Testimony will never be enough. Human testimony is never going to be enough because people lie
and people make mistakes. Therefore, surely you agree with that, right? You have to agree with that.
No, I think enough testimony absolutely can overcome the prior probability
of a miracle. And this just takes, go ahead.
But even someone being mistaken, even with the case with the early Christianity,
it's not, we're not just basing it off their testimonies, we're basing it off the actions
that they took. They went on to death to preach the gospel, and that's not just their testimony,
that would be more evidence that what they're saying, they believe what they're saying.
It's the content of their testimony that would make the difference. And so, if the
Gospels do reflect the unembellished testimony that goes back to the apostles,
which they touched Jesus, they handled Jesus, they saw him after he died,
like really saw him, not brief seeing, we don't know what kind of statement,
but they spent 40 days with him, ate meals with him, touched his wounds,
saw him in groups, then that would be strong evidence. So, for example, I think,
to kind of show why I think Hakim is wrong here, if, say, I were to go to Skepticon with my friend
Caleb from church who has one arm, okay, I hope he's not watching, and he's like, hey buddy,
why are you picking on me? And his mom came with, and she can testify that's the way that he was
born. And, you know, I'm sure people in the chat are like, well, why don't you do it hot shot?
But say I go to Skepticon with my buddy Caleb, he's got one arm, his mom could testify that.
And I, annoying his head with oil, and I grab his, the stumpy hand that he has for
an arm on the right side, and I say, grow in the name of Jesus Christ. And five people at Skepticon
see it. Daddy Dilahunty himself is there. He sees it. Okay. He converts. He gives up his positions
or whatever he deletes his YouTube channel. I don't know. And five other people, they're saw it.
But all we have is their testimony. There was no photos. There was no video cameras.
There was just those five guys testimony. I would think that their testimony would be enough
evidence to overcome the low prior probability. Now you might say, well,
obviously, Eric, you don't have that Christianity. Okay, fine. I'm just using this as an illustration
that enough testimony, enough powerful testimony of detailed testimony can overcome a prior low
problem. Yeah, if you, if you've got, well, it would be even more if like he said, Daddy Dilahunty,
if he, if he had, you know, if he was to give up his whole, like his whole,
like he would give up his, his Patreon subscriptions, everything, because he makes content on
atheism and just delete everything. And because he saw this thing, that could be something. But
again, five testimonies, I don't think that's sufficient to establish, like it's, it might
be sufficient to establish that they saw something, but it's not sufficient to establish that a
miracle actually occurred. If you had like medical records, like beforehand and afterwards,
and we could like, we could like, I don't know, do DNA sequencing to make sure it's the same
person's like a twin or something. You know, there's a lot of things that you could do under
scientific, scientific examination, or even just filming it or something. Let's just push,
let's just push back on that and just say it's 100 years from now when people are looking at
this particular story. I think it should, I think it should, I think it should move the needle for
somebody. I think that they should at least, I'm not saying they should just, I'm not saying they
should just believe it. Just, okay, that's it. I heard that story. That's enough for me. I think
that at that point, they should seriously investigate it. I think they should at least
really, really look into it. I don't think they should do the Hume thing and go, no, they're
probably mistaken. They're probably, it probably was something else. I think they should really
look into the story and see what they want to, we bet like, how did then you dismiss all the
the stories of other religions? Like, how do you, how do you dismiss Sathra Sai Baba or
or the stories of the Buddha or the, you know, how do you dismiss those things?
Yeah, I'm not, I'm not dismissing them necessarily. I'm just saying I haven't been presented evidence
sufficient enough to, besides the story you gave me is at least intriguing. It's more intriguing
than any other Sai Baba story because I've seen, we already, but at the same time our head is going
to go, okay, we already know what kind of a person this guy is. He was accused, he was accused of
being a sex predator. I think he ended up like paying like lawsuits, like we're, you know,
it's kind of like the hush money kind of thing where it's not like it was proven. It's not like
he was found guilty, but why are you paying people? What does that look like? We already know on camera
he's doing magic tricks and goopy stuff like that. And so I think that does kind of lower
our expectations on that. But yeah, like take for example, Apollonius of Tiana, okay, like this
is one that like Bart Urman likes to bring up. And he brought it up with the debate with Justin
Bass, like very briefly. Well, the the Philostratus, his biographer, was writing 100 years later.
And supposedly the miracles that Apollonius did were like in India or
other places far away from where Philostratus was writing. And so that's, that's distance
in, in not just like where the events occurred, but also in time. So that context about, I don't
know who this Apple is. Yeah, he was known as like a wonder worker. I think he was like a Greek
philosopher. He was supposedly casting out demons and healing the sick. I think he raised the dead.
There's other kind of weird spooky things that he did. I don't remember exactly all of the details,
but like off the bat, when we hear of an event that's hundreds of years later,
you know, and it's far, far away, we're going to go, okay, yeah, sure, like whatever.
And so like if I said, well, yeah, I'm, I, I healed the sick. And you're like, oh, really cool,
where in the bush in Africa, like, you'd be like, okay, there's so many people I know who like,
I know people who said that they know someone who has raised someone from the dead and it's always
unverifiable over in Thailand or something like that. So I think you're reasonable in being like,
I don't think so. Yeah. And I mean, we could have a, we could have a whole other conversation about
why it's, why some miracles happen, why other miracles don't happen. You know, why, you know,
it's, it's funny. I had, I had lunch with a, I used to be a game developer, an indie game developer,
and I had lunch with a, some one of my students who, because I used to teach it, one of my students
came over from Canada and he was like, oh, I'm in Coulomb, let's go and I'm cool. I'm in Coulomb,
let's have a beer. And we're not talking about God the whole time. And he was a Calvinist. I didn't
know this until we sat down. And I didn't know what Calvinism was, but he explained it to me.
And, and I said, you know, how can you deny these, this evidence of, you know, miracles?
And he said to me, I can't, because, well, first of all, I said, it seemed disgusting. It seemed
like an idea of a cruel God to create someone who was just destined to go to hell, which is what
he told me he believed. And then I was like, why create someone in the first place? But then,
and he said, yeah, sure. And he's like, I can see that. And then I was like, and then he's like,
but I think it's disgusting that you believe in miracles. And I was like, why? And he's like,
because hack one, how can you believe in miracles and then not be outside of a children's hospital
every single second of every day? Healing every person that goes in there. And secondly, why
do some miracles work and some people don't, miracles don't work? Like, why, why is that the
case? Yeah, no, that's a good question. And I do find it strange when like, reformed people are
maybe more conservative, theologically, people say that when it's like, well, Jesus didn't heal
every single person, right? I mean, he even tells the story in his own hometown. And he's like, hey,
I know what you're going to say, physician heal yourself. And he's like, but like, hey,
Elijah only healed name in the Syrian. So this is kind of was like, so chew on that. And they,
according to the story, wanted to push him out the brow of the cliff after that.
He only healed one paralytic. When he, in John chapter five, when he went through the pool of
Bethesda, when there was a bunch of paralytics. And so there's, there's different reasons. Some of
it is just God's providence, but I'm not a Calvinist. I would say that there's less suffering and
evil in the world if he's healing somebody versus nobody. I think even a lot of Calvinists would
say that God can and still does heal certain people. I mean, Jeff Durbin, who's like, the Calvinist
of Calvinists, and I think he's even a sensationist, like, believes that his, his adopted son was
healed of spinal bifida. People can look that up on YouTube if they're interested. And so now that
one's kind of hard to verify because they were doing all these tests while the mother was pregnant.
And so I understand if there's some skepticism about that one. But yeah, that's a theological
question that just kind of goes back to the problem of evil. Nobody, you could be the wildest
Pentecostal faith healer. Nobody is going to believe that you can go empty out a hospital
because Jesus himself didn't do that. It even says in his own hometown he could do no mighty work,
except heal a few sick folks. So it's not like yeah, because they want to say because of their
because of their unbelief. Yeah. Yeah. So and so we do see often that when Jesus did heal,
it was in response to faith. The woman with the issue of blood, he turned to her and said,
daughter, thy faith has healed you. The Centurion servant said, Hey, you know, go,
you know, can we substitute the word, can we substitute the word faith there for placebo
effect? I mean, it depends on what the situation is. Again, I don't think that placebo effect
explains some of the healings and miracles that we have. I don't think so. But it would explain
so much like the placebo effect or spontaneous remission would explain a lot of the stuff that
a lot of the hardcore miracles we do see. But there's always that question, why doesn't God heal
amputees? Yeah, sure. Well, there is an amputee, I believe that God has healed, but it's one that
some of your audience might have talked about. No, no, no, no, it's Smith Wigglesworth,
the man, the myth of legend. That guy's the Pentecostal Jim Bunyan there. But I'm not saying
that what he did was real or not real. I just, I can't verify it. But what I do know is there's a
man by the name of Bruce Van Nada, who was working under a car in Wisconsin, you can look up a story
I have a video about him on my channel. He testifies of it himself in several places on YouTube,
where he was working under a giant semi truck, and it fell right on his stomach. Blood shot up
through his mouth. He started to have an out of body experience. He described that angels were
holding his body together. The doctor said that they have never seen anybody with that much, I
think blood loss and like that kind of trauma survive. He survived for for 90 minutes. He should
have been instantly killed basically. They had to cut away the majority of his intestine. He had
basically three quarters of the amount of a human intestine left. He was placed on a he
he had to be fed through like drip feeding, you know, through an IV. And even that he couldn't
digest well, because he would just have diarrhea because he didn't have enough intestine to properly
digest his food. He had a friend in New York. While he was in the situation, he after months later, he
went from like 180 to 120 pounds. He was basically just kind of circling the drain. He had a friend
who said that he believed got spoke to him. He got on a plane from New York to Wisconsin. He laid
hands on Bruce. Bruce said that he testified that he felt like a an electricity going to his body.
He began to resume eating a normal diet. He began to gain weight. He was not having diarrhea anymore.
He was examined by a doctor. And yes, intestines cannot be unless they pull out his intestines
and measure them. They can't be but all the imaging they show says that most of his intestine has
regrown. Okay. So that's as close to an amputee story as I have. I think that's a pretty incredible
story. And he's he's he's normal ever since he still has scars to prove it. Would you say that's
evidence for the healing power of your perspective, your Christianity? Well, yeah, I mean, the man
prayed for him in the name of Jesus. I mean, so the context was they're both Christian believers.
He used the name he invoked to the name of Jesus for the man's healing. And then his intestines
basically re grew. He's living a normal life. He's completely everything is fine now with him.
And from what we see, spontaneous remission or placebo is just out the window here.
What about if what about those exact same scenario but for a different religion?
Would that be evidence of that religion? Yeah, I think we would need to look at
that religion or we would need to update our theological beliefs. Like maybe a universalistic
God or some, you know, some kind of a John Hick kind of God. Yeah, he was kind of like,
hey, they're all kind of always to God. Yeah, we would need to update our theology at that point.
But I would say that's evidence for theism versus it, you know, the opposite.
Yeah, you seem you seem more reasonable than not to the most apologists, to be honest. I feel
like that was a question that could have got us into a loop. So I appreciate you being being honest.
So when, you know, and not to crap on all apologists or whatever, I'm sure that, you know,
I'm not perfect. No one's perfect. But it seems like I'm just thinking about the Ken
Hams and the Ken Hovens and things like that. Oh, I get, I get, I get crapped on all the time.
It's okay. No, you know, and you will like people that I can see in the comments like people,
you know, a lot of people who have left their faith will be quite sensitive to stories like
this and immediately you'd be on their back feet or be kind of aggressive towards this.
Because leaving your faith when it's such a strong part of your life is like really
kind of can be very traumatic. For me, it was one of the most traumatic but
beautiful, like the scariest but beautiful moments in my life and the saddest and most
beautiful parts of my life as well. But you definitely get that reaction. And it's, it gets,
it's, so, you know, don't, I wouldn't take it, you know, you know, I always talk to Michael Jones
about this, you know, we're friends and I am, and he's always like, why do these people hate me?
And I was like, well, for Michael Jones, there's different reasons.
He makes the tiktok. Yeah, I think, I think what it is, it's the, I said to him, I was like,
you make, you make videos like slamming other perspectives and you do a really good job of
it. But then people get, I think people at X people, because they think your perspective
is stupid. So like, it's like watching, I know, anyway, we won't talk about Michael too much about
Oh, I'm guilty of the same thing that he is. Me and Michael are friends as well. So yeah. Yeah,
yeah, he's good. He's good. And funny, like, I always talk about this, he, every time he comes
on, he drinks whiskey. So I've got the Christian apologist drinking whiskey. And then I've asked,
he's never, I don't think he's ever going to come on, but when, when I was planning to have a Satanist
on the head brother of the temple of Nusa Satan temple, he's like, we're having tea and scones,
I'm going to make bake them the most delicious puppy, pumpkin scones. And we're going to have tea
and scones. So look at the Satanist having tea and scones, and then the Christian apologist drinking
straight whiskey. So just, I know that we've get your questions in people, I've got a couple
starred, but I might have missed some. So if you've, what definitely want me to read them out,
either super chat them, or I'll try and get to them. But when we look at the Gospels,
something that I find that's super interesting is you build this kind of cumulative case,
but something that, that I look at when I look at the Gospels is, do you hold to
Markey in priority where Mark was written first? I don't care. I'm very ambivalent. I think there's
probably more going for Mark in priority than Matthew priority. My friend, David Paul, and
might get mad at me. I've shared several of his videos where he argues for Matthew in priority.
I'm willing to be convinced either way. At this point, I'm, I think I'm glad that he's tackling it
because it's a very neglected issue in the discussion. But at the end of the day, I really
don't care as long as there's reliability for the Gospels. And I think that there's marks of
independence. I know this is people are like, well, it's just Mark. And then maybe another
source Q and people embellishing all kinds of things. And then John just comes out of left
field and just says all kinds of crazy stuff. And I just, I push back on all of that on my channel.
Yeah, well, and you definitely do. And I think some of your videos are awesome. Not that I,
I don't fully, I don't agree with a lot of your conclusions, but I definitely appreciate the
way you engage with the arguments. So when I look at, for me, I built a cumulative case,
but I built it the other way than you do. Like I look at Mark and I go, okay, we don't have,
there's no version birth. There's no genealogies. There's no infancy narratives or sermon on the
mount or the Lord's prayer or parables or the beatitudes and finding the beatitudes, the beatitudes
were, there's a version of the beatitudes in the Dead Sea Scrolls written prior to Jesus's time
for Q beatitudes. It's not word for word, but it's the same structure. It's like eight
blestar statements and then a longer ninth. There's the IM statements in John that are not in
Mark. The logos word concept is not in Mark. The last supper discourses are not in Mark.
Doubting Thomas and. It's kind of in Mark. The last supper is in Mark.
The last course. Sorry, the last course is discourses. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, sure, sure.
17 through 13. Yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, and then doubting Thomas and then expanding post
resurrection appearances. We don't have any of that in Mark. And, you know, if you take
to Mark in priority and you believe that Mark was written first, then it took 15 years or so for
these other things to be written. Like, I don't know if it's 1520 or look how I've got how long
it is exactly. I think it's, I think Mark was written what 40 years after Jesus died and.
I subscribe to earlier dating in that. There's a good book by Jonathan Bernier that I recommend on
the dating of the Gospels, but we could grant for the sake of argument 40 years, sure. Okay.
And, but then how long between Mark and the next gospel, like.
Five, 10, 15 times. Oh, really? Yeah. Okay. I thought it was like 1520. But anyway,
maybe 10, 15. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So in that 10 years, which is a long time, like 10 years ago, I was
still a Christian 10 years ago. You know, 10 years ago, you know, 30, 2013. Yeah. I was, I was just,
you know, I was only a couple of years, I was only a couple of years since being a youth pastor or a
year since being a youth pastor. I was, you know, so 10 years is a long time. But you've got like,
all these things that like, I just don't know why Mark didn't include the version birth and
anything. And the just the resurrection, the disciples encounter with the resurrected Jesus,
it ends abruptly at the empty tomb. Like, if you were to think of the Gospels as a,
as recounting the life of Jesus, and you're not, you don't have this like,
30,000 feet view, you just have the perspective of Mark. Why did Mark leave out all these important
things? And it seems very clear, a cumulative case seems very clear that the other Gospels are
adding to it. They're adding to the, you know, the stories and then the adding things that are from,
that are, that are known in the dead sea scrolls from prior, that are not obviously,
not words of Jesus directly, or at least Jesus was using it something in the time. And
then we have, you know, that Jesus was supposed to come back in his disciples lifetime. And the
only way you can get around that is if you translate what Jesus said there, to be the
exact opposite of what Jesus said. So it's, you know, I tell you the truth, people standing here
will not taste death until all these things happen becomes, I tell the truth, everyone here will
taste death until all these things happen. Or, you know, I tell you, I tell you this truth,
this generation will not pass away until they see the Son of Man returning on the clouds,
becomes, I tell the truth, this generation is long and gone. And 2000 years later,
we're still waiting for the Son of Man to return on the clouds. Like how do you,
I've got a cumulative case and I go, this just doesn't work.
Yeah. So I mean, there's a lot to address there. And so,
In the last five minutes, sorry.
Yeah, no, that's okay. That's okay. So I will, I will talk about some resources and try and
give some really quick responses. Yeah. So as far as the words of Jesus regarding the
second coming and different things like that, was he a false apocalyptic prophet?
I would refer people to my friend Michael's three video series. And I will go ahead and
refer people to Matthew Harky and Derek Lambert's response on their channel. And they can make up
their minds as far as that goes, is one interpretation is given. And that would be
through Michael, I would also refer people to all, although I'm not what I would,
a Craig bot, you know, just everything that daddy William Lane Craig says is good and gold.
He does have a very good three part underrated series, where he talks about the delay of the
Perusia, it's just for his defenders class. So they could just look up those resources delay
of Perusia. There are some textual things there that are going on that I don't really think
people are interpreting Jesus correctly. And I think he has some very cogent explanations there.
I would like to make a video on that just not to just pair it him necessarily because he's
already done it, but just nobody's watched those videos compared to like debates and
different things like that. So I might, you know, kind of try and reproduce those and
point people his direction. So I know it's kind of a non answer, just, you know,
look at the footnotes kind of answer there. But that's what I got right now for that.
As far as the other things like with Mark, why didn't he mention the virgin birth,
or some of these other different things? I mean, we could also ask why
a Grafton's Chronicles doesn't mention the reign of King John, or he mentions the reign
of King John, but he never mentions the Magna Carta, Civil War General US Grant.
He was Lincoln's general for the Civil War. He doesn't mention the Emancipation Proclamation.
He kept an extensive diary of the war throughout, right? In the detailed biography of Constantine,
Eusebius never mentions the death of Constantine's son, Crispus, and his wife, Fausta.
Claudius expelled the Jews from Rome. Josephus and Philo never mention it. We only get it in the
book of Acts, and then 100 years later, Suetonius. And so we have to kind of be careful with making
arguments from silence. I do understand, I'm not saying that all arguments from silence are
bad necessarily, but they are pretty precarious. And so what I would say is,
yeah, we can consider that, but then we need to look at kind of the internal and external
evidence for the reliability of the Gospels. Do they show that they were close up to the
facts? Do they show that they are knowledgeable? But do they look like they're honest people who
are trying to get it right? And if we have those things, and I believe that we do on a number of
different grounds, which is what my channel is all about, then I think we have reason to trust them.
Also, with the ending of Mark, a lot of scholars believe that it was actually cut off abruptly.
We don't have the lost ending. Gar is the Greek word where it ends. It's the only, I believe,
if I'm, I could be wrong, somebody can correct me. It's the only Greek text that we have from
like 200 years before and after the Gospels where a text ends on that particular verb.
Many scholars like Bruce Metzger and others believe that that ending was just actually lost.
And so that's why somebody felt like they had to come in and fill it in with the
longer ending of Mark. Okay. Have you got a couple minutes for some questions?
Yeah, sure. Guys, go check out Tessify's channel. Awesome stuff there. And I remember you did a
video on on one of these videos, one of Derek's videos, like you did a video responding to one
of Derek's videos. So I was like, Hey, I edited that for Derek. And yeah. And of course, guys,
in a couple of days, we have, should we, should we de-platform half for ideologies?
Chrissy is someone who called me out on Twitter. And we got into an hour and a half long conversation.
And, and we ended up becoming buddies by the end. And then we're going to talk about it. And then
we're going to have Mark, sorry, Dr. Dan McClellan coming on. I talked about the first god, monotheism
and a little bit that's going to be an exciting one. If you want to support the channel, Patreon
or join and super chat. They're all always appreciated. But thank you everyone for all
your support. Really appreciate it. So we have some comments. This one's, I'm just going to get
this one out of this one. It's quite brutal. But I think it needs to be truth said, my sister was
raped and she pleaded with Jesus to help her. Why didn't he? You guys, you say you guys, the guys
and test sounds grew, but why not my sister? I mean, that's a hard question. That's a hard question.
And I'm very sorry, truth that your sister went through that. Well, yeah, obviously. And so,
you know, I mean, that's, that's tough. Why, why did some of my friends get abused? You know,
why did I grow up and I'm crazy home, even though I pleaded to God while I felt like I was being
neglected by my parents, by my parents, and they're too busy getting drunk to pay attention to me.
Again, I'm not making trying to make them look bad. They just, thankfully, they're saying,
yeah, yeah, yeah. Rape is obviously a thousand times worse than anything that I've
experienced. And so, I mean, that that's just if, if a miracle happens, there's less evil in the
world than there is not. It's more evidence for theism than there's not. You might question the
justice of God at that point. But it would be difficult to question his existence. But I also
believe in a God. And this is what I think Christianity has going for it more than, say,
the Muslim view, or is that this God became incarnate was tied to a pillar and beaten bloody.
And was spit a pound, had a crown of thorns put on his head, had nails driven through his hands
and feet and suffocated to death, excruciating pain for hours. And so, he's a God who can sympathize
with our sufferings and it doesn't, he suffers with us. But of course, that's awful. And I think
that anything that I'm saying here, to be honest, is going to sound hollow and, and like a bad answer.
And so, in those kind of situations, what, what, what, what possibly can you say? I think we've
all known. Yeah, and, and you're right. And truth is, it's absolutely horrible that you
just went through that. That that seems to be the, you know, I encourage anyone to go listen to
the conversation I had with Michael Jones on the problem of evil and the problem of suffering.
I think Michael's perspective on that, it makes sense, but it's definitely not a
God that I would even, I don't even think, I don't even think he believes like I don't think he
fully grasps like what he was saying there, like it just seems very, I don't know, the problem of
evil is a big one. It just seems very, it's probably the biggest problem to, to my artistic
visions, I would say. It is. There's Corey Tenboom, I mean, was a Christian woman who was dragged off
into concentration camps and, you know, stripped in front of men while they were doing things. And,
you know, it's just, well, even in, even in Anne Frank's diary, she wrote, I mean, I think she was,
she was just Jewish though, but she wrote that, you know, we pray to God every night and I know
that he went forsake us. And I remember looking at them thinking he did, like he kept the gates
of Auschwitz locked. And, you know, it's like, I know this is, this would be very harsh hearing
this, but like, I, you know, we, my wife and I had people invite us to a prayer meeting because
they heard a prophetic voice tell them, or they heard a prophet say that someone needed to come
and get healed of endometriosis the next week as someone's sister. And that was my,
my, we got invited by my wife's sister and my wife had endometriosis. And I thought to myself,
like, if God can heal, you know, use his powers to heal Amy of endometriosis, like, don't, like,
we can go through the medical system, we can get that cleared up with science and go save the girl,
the little girl is going to be raped, go sell, stop the boy that is getting beaten by his father,
go, you know, the starving family in Africa, or, you know, go help them. Like, don't, don't waste
the power on me if he's a limited amount. You know, there's one thing that I will say, it's just
as a resource. Greg Boyd, I'm not an open theist as he is, but I don't hold to a view of meticulous
providence, which is where God is literally controlling everything. I know maybe someone
might say, well, that doesn't help because he's still allowing things. But there's a book that
he's written on the topic, Greg Boyd, Satan and the Problem of Evil. And there's a shorter version,
and I wish I could remember the name of it. But it's worth checking out. He's really kind of
thought of these things from both an emotional standpoint, a philosophical standpoint. And I
think his voice kind of in this topic, I kind of more agree with his kind of warfare or worldview
kind of thesis on it, is God to blame beyond the problem that answers for suffering. And so people
can maybe check that out if they're kind of struggling with that question. Because I don't,
the whole idea of God's controlling everything, like even the person that's
raping somebody, like I don't subscribe to that at all, like a Calvinist would.
Sorry, Calvinist is watching, but I don't.
But Carrie Ann actually points out, too, there is no sympathy for victims of rape in the Bible,
just sympathy for the financial hit the father has ownable face, having a damaged product.
As far as like stuff like that goes, yeah, like when you look at the Old Testament,
I'm sorry to be rape heavy, we'll leave on the rape comments.
These are the brutal ones, yeah, for sure. And it's, I mean, it's like, here I am, whatever. But
when Jesus talks about like the divorce laws in Matthew chapter 19, and somebody like, I think
it's like the teachers of the law come up and they're like, or maybe it's even his disciples,
I can't remember, but he's like, Hey, can we get a divorce for any reason? Well, back then,
it was just like, a man could just no fault divorce a woman, because he just,
depending on how he interpreted Moses, and a woman couldn't. And she wouldn't be provided for
really, it was just like, there you go, you've been divorced. Now, you kind of got this black
mark on you and the your protection, your, your provision, all of that stuff. You're on your own.
And I mean, that's terrible, right? That's terrible. And so Jesus says, he points people
to the creation order. And he said, Moses permitted Moses permitted this. But I'm telling you,
this is the way that it is, you're married for life. And he said, in the beginning,
it was not so, and he points back to the creation order of things. So in the creation order of
things in the Edenic picture, I mean, you know, people might not like this or whatever they might
think I'm doing mental gymnastics, fine, whatever. But in the creation order of things, the way God
created things before the fall, there wasn't slaves, and there wasn't divorce, there wasn't,
you know, all of this kind of crazy stuff. That's the picture that he's trying to point people to.
Your kingdom come, your will be done. Okay, that's the kind of kingdom that he's trying to bring
into. That's why he's saying, Moses said this, but I'm getting you like much stricter criteria here.
And so these were people who were unregenerate, they only had the law, the law was showing them
that they're evil. And it's the power of the Holy Spirit that ultimately changed men's hearts.
Hearts and the world that we've inherited, as I think Michael has done a good job arguing and
others as well, is basically a Christianized world where we're living on Christian capital.
This is what Tom Holland argues so well in his book Dominion. These concepts of these things are
wrong. I'm not trying to sound like a presupper here. But they do, if you read Tom Holland's book,
they do come out of it. And Tom Holland is an atheist, by the way. They do come from a Christian
ethic that has been pushing a lot of these things. So it's a great question. It's a difficult question.
I'm probably not giving the most satisfactory answer, but that's solve the problem of evil.
Boom, two minutes. Let me tweet it out.
Guitar Dog said, only Matthew has the zombie parade. I don't think it's technically zombies,
right? Technically zombies have to be created with black magic. These would just be
rising saints, but they're technically zombies. They're not technically zombies, but they appear
like zombies, I guess. We're not told how many there are. We're only told by Matthew. You think
it's true? It's brief. Yeah, I don't hold the lacuna view of like, well, it's just apocalyptic
window dressing kind of. I think it happened. I think that it's my reasons for that are routed
through reliability of Matthew's gospel. If I have a lot of different reasons to trust Matthew,
when he tells me something that's a little bit weird and I can't confirm, but he's reliable
about a lot of other things, then I have reason to trust it. But would I use that? Does that
miracle fall on my criteria? No. No, like the stuff that we're talking about earlier, I think
you can as a skeptic rationally doubt it. I think it's when you come into the examination
of the gospels and go, okay, these guys are just constantly telling the truth. They're
constantly getting it right. They're constantly showing themselves to be reliable. And we're
talking about a handful of saints. We're not talking about like 10,000 legions of guys walking
into Jerusalem and appearing to everybody. We don't know how many it was. It could have just
been a small group of people that just went and visited a relative. They could have been earlier
followers of Jesus. They're going to another relative saying, hey, and it raises the prior
probability when they hear the news of the resurrection, like, oh, wow, that did happen.
Because I've heard this story or I had this relative appear to me or whatever. I don't know.
Yes, it's a weird story. It's a super weird story. But again, we want to be careful with argument from
silence. Thank you, Eddie, Dean for the two little super chat. At this point, did Noah's flood
happen? I'm not a super big Old Testament guy. I think it did happen. I think it was local. I
don't believe in a global flood. I'm not a young Earth creationist that might disappoint some people.
But I think it was probably on a local level. I'm not a huge Biologos guy, but they do have some
interesting articles on the flood. Biologos.com that people could check out there that argue for
being a local flood that are just super easy, quick reads that I think are digestible.
Yeah. The only problem with that, though, is it defeats the purpose of the flood in the first
place, right, which is to wipe out everything? Yeah, I understand that. There's different ways that
people interpret some of the words and different things like that. It's not something that I've
looked super deeply into. So I just... I think that you would really like the, well, I don't know
if you would, but there's a... Dr. Josh talks about how there's this theory that it's a polemic
against the Mesopotamian society. So the story of Noah is taken from the Epic of Gilgamesh,
but it's rewritten as the Hebrew story. And if you look at the Enuma Aleation, the Epic of
Gilgamesh, it's all pointing towards civilization. It's all pointing towards Mesopotamian society.
I think it's like... I'm going to get it wrong, but like Ankidu is a forest man and he drinks beer,
but it's all moving towards Mesopotamian society. And then with the Abrahamic story,
it's moving away. That, you know, you've got the Tower of Babel and he goes around
intense for the rest of his life. And there's actually this idea that the story is written
about in Genesis there, we're retelling of the Epic of Gilgamesh, but in a way that's like taking
what God really wants and like showing what God really wants. It's... I'm doing a video on it soon
for the patrons. For the Patreon supporters, we'll have a interview with Dr... a private
interview with Dr. Josh, and then from that I'll make the clips. So just a last couple quick
questions. Absurd scandal. Did the youth who prayed over you literally tell you info that they
couldn't have known naturally? No, they definitely could have known naturally.
It was stuff like, I know that you're feeling like XYZ, but God wants you to tell you ABC,
and the ABC made me feel a lot better. And the XYZ, they probably knew about because they were at
the front praying for me and the girls had invited me to youth group would have said things like,
you know, he's depressed, he's an angry kid at school, he's, you know, he always walks around
with his headphones in listening to Eminem or Marilyn Manson or something. You know, so you
know, this guy needs prayer and they would have told him all this stuff and they probably would
have spoken about me for weeks prior to that because they were trying to get me to go along
and they were in their leadership. So it's very likely that I think that these people knew about
me and they were taking a step of faith and having all these people pray for you that were my age,
that were clearly nervous about doing so. And they're telling me things that that that really hit
home for me. Yeah, it was something, something special. And what do you think of when Pragmatic
Crystal says any God who takes payment in blood is not worthy of worship? I mean, you disagree,
but what do you think about the problem of blood sacrifice being disgusting or not disgusting,
but like, like the atonement? I mean, I hold to like killing animals before Jesus and then
blood sacrifices and different things like that. Yeah, I don't know. I mean, there's
things for what that symbolizes, probably stumbling a little bit on that one.
Yeah, I don't hold to like a like a penal theory or satisfaction theory of atonement. I kind of hold
because it doesn't really make a whole lot of sense. I kind of have more of an Eastern view of
the atonement, that salvation comes through being a partaker of the divine nature. Jesus says that
its death is like a seed that falls into the ground and dies. And if it dies, it brings forth much
grain. I think that yes, the blood does bring atonement, it does bring forgiveness. I can't just
ignore those particular passages. But I think the main point is that we could be kind of grafted into
him. And that there's that whole vine and branch thing, and that his life flows through us and
produces faith and hope and charity and different things like that. That salvation is about being
kind of a divinized or becoming, that sounds very Mormon, not that kind of divinized, like the
Eastern kind of divinized, where you become a partaker of the divine nature that you become a
partaker of God's energies. And for Jesus to become incarnate, he could do what he couldn't do
without being incarnate, whereas he would have to learn courage, that he would have to learn
trust in the face of adversity, he would have to learn courage in the face of fear, he would have
to learn love in the face of his enemies spitting upon him and mocking him. And I believe that,
you know, this could sound convoluted to people, I'm just imagining trying to save
his skeptics, but because that's who I'm talking to. But that's the whole point,
is he's trying to reproduce that life in us. And the death, like the sacrifice is like pushes that,
it kind of puts a capstone on it in the sense of like, non-resistance in the face of great evil,
and that kind of thing. And that's the kind of life that he wants to reproduce in us is
non-resistant love, love, when your enemies are mocking you, spitting on you,
crucifying you, and you're still saying, Father, forgive them for they, no one out what they do.
And I don't know if you could have communicated that otherwise. And I think these sacrifices were
types and shadows of that particular sacrifice that would happen in the future. Is it weird? Does
it sound kooky? Sure. I'm willing to admit that. Do I fully understand it? No, that's not something
that I have totally figured out. And I think with Christianity, I don't think I have to have
all of my questions answered necessarily to have cognitive closure. I just need to think that
what I believe makes more sense versus negation, if that makes sense. So sorry if that was word
sality. No, it's trying to answer as honest as I can. No, that's fine. And I appreciate that you
are honest. And sometimes honest answers don't fully, you know, like a lot of people, a lot of
people in the comments will be like, what, this is silly or whatever. But it's like, well, you know,
you're answering honesty, which is, I guess, your opinion, which is fine. I think that's great.
Instead of like having a, you know, I've had, anyway, I'm getting distracted. I've got three
last questions. Three last questions for you. So actually, I'm just going to skip two last
questions. I'd love to do this again, because there's so much more I want to go into into into it with
you. This is obviously being you're in the firing scene for this. If you've got, if you ever want
to put me in the firing scene on your channel or another show, I'm happy to come and try and
defend my worldview. Obviously, I don't, I haven't expressed a huge amount of my worldview here,
but there's definitely room where people can prod me, because you've been in the hot seat. And so
I'd return the favor anytime you'd want to, if you want to. So I'm going to register two questions.
First question, and this is a question I ask a lot of people, what if anything would change your mind?
What would change my mind if the Gospels were found to be unreliable documents?
And like some of the modern miracles that I think are well evidenced had a better explanation,
a better scientific explanation. I'm not going to be one of these Christians are like, you got to
find the bones of Jesus to just prove it to me. No, I just think if the Gospels are, you know, riddled
with contradictions and unreliable documents, which plenty of people will say that they are,
then that would change my mind. I've looked at the evidence. I've looked at it for a long time.
I think it's the opposite. I don't be making a different kind of channel, I guess.
So yeah, that would change my mind. I think you should have falsifiability in any worldview. It's
important. Yeah, 100%. What is the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in?
Possibly true that I don't believe in. Man, I don't know. I
Judaism, I mean, by the dead just springs out of Christianity, so that's cheating. Catholicism is...
If we were to take, you can't do anything like, yeah, let's say you have to choose like Islam,
Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, Shinto, something very different. I don't know. I think I would
just be like a general theist of some sort. Like, I think the John Hick kind of religion
would be the one where it's... John Hick or John Hick? Yeah, no, John. Hey, both. Why not both?
That would be pretty killer. No, I would say something like,
he was kind of like, they're all have these elements of truth and they all point to God,
basically. He's kind of like a pluralist. I would say that would make the most sense because
he's got to argue that theism is definitely true, but he's going to say that none of them really
have the corner on the market. And so it's not really even a religion. Yeah, I'm sorry. I wish
I had a better answer. I know about Islam. I know about Judaism. I know about Buddhism,
but Buddhism is atheistic really. And so I don't find it. There are some theistic ideas
of Buddhism, like sex Buddhism. Yeah. They have a hell. There's some sex that have a hell and the
hell is kind of cool because it's only temporary. Like, you go to the burn off, you can't make,
you couldn't do it. They're a negationist or something. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, you end up burning
it off and then becoming enlightened. So it's not like, it's like if all else fails, if you
can't get enlightened in the regressive life or whatever, you eventually go to hell and you
burn off your karma there and then you go to the enlightenment or something.
The universalist version of it. Yeah. Yeah, I don't know. That's a good question. I wish I had a
better answer. Something theistic and very general without a whole lot of special revelation, I guess
would be the one that would work. I still think there's good evidence that God exists and that
miracles happen today. So it would just have to be some sort of pluralistic, hey,
you know, kumbaya, let's, we're all going to heaven, kind of God, I guess. Do you believe in
aliens? I don't think there's any good evidence. I think, I mean, well, I think it's possible
because the universe is so vast. I don't have a problem if like we discovered there were aliens,
I wouldn't feel like my worldview was too threatened. I see as Lewis certainly didn't see it that way.
He wrote books about it, but yeah, I think it's possible, but I don't think they visited
Earth. I think that that kind of journey is impossible for them. And I just think like,
even if like say something like abiogenesis really did happen, which I don't think it happened, I do
think there are some good arguments for the intelligent design kind of camp for the fact that
the origin of life points to theism. But if it did happen, it's almost impossible. And so
I wouldn't be shocked at all if we're alone. Even if I was an atheist, I would probably have that view.
Yeah, and it's something that I hadn't thought about too much the alien thing recently, but
we are having, as I'll reach out, we are having Aaron Aderon and his co-author to talk about
finding ET. So he actually, he was, he worked for SETI, so the search for extraterrestrial
intelligence. And he's written a book about what would be the sociological and religious impact
if we did find ET, if we did find a religious person. And also, we're having a comedian come on
Sydney Davis, Jr. who is comedian, she's got a special out and she runs a podcast called
Growing Up Fundy. But tell me that it's the most horrifying image. I got an image of
VeggieTales and mixed it with an image of Jesus. Tell me that's the most horrifying image you've
ever seen, ever. That like, that, that gives me nightmares and I loved it so much I put it in
there. So, um, but yeah, it's pretty scary. Well, thank you so much for coming on. I really
appreciate it. And I think conversations like this, I hope I was respectful enough that, you
know, you feel comfortable. I love having conversations with Christians and people
that I have different opinions of. It's always very special to me, especially when they can be
cordial and polite. So, thank you so much for coming on. Guys, go check out,
testify, even if you don't agree with everything that you heard here, these content's good.
And, and some of his, it's, if you want, if you want someone to, if you want to like go and watch
a video and try and find ways you can argue against it, or that's what I like to watch your
stuff, I go like, okay, I'll watch this and I go, hmm, I don't really agree with that one part,
or I agree with this part and find the good, find the bad, it's good stuff. So,
go to subscribe to testify. And with that said, we're going to end today's stream,
I'm going to go to work. So, I'm super excited for that. What time is it where you are?
It is 5 30. Oh, cool. Yeah. Okay. That's not that's bad. It's 8 30 for me. Okay. All right.
I'll see you later and thanks for tuning in. See you guys. Bye.
Bye.
