Welcome, everyone, to Deep Drinks podcast, the deepest podcasts on the internet.
Today we have a very special episode, a very personal episode for me actually, and I'll
explain why in a little bit, but my guest today is Aaron Ra known for his powerful and
articulate defense of scientific reality against creationist claims.
Aaron has become a beacon of rational thought and skepticism across the globe.
Aaron is now, is not just a prominent atheist activist, but an author and public speaker
as well.
He's a member of the American Atheist Board of Directors and previously served as the
President of Atheist Alliance of America.
His work extends beyond promoting atheism, focusing heavily on the importance of critical
thinking, scientific literacy, and the, and the challenging of main, maintaining a secular
society in the face of religious influence.
Welcome, Aaron Ra to Deep Drinks podcast.
Thank you so much for coming on.
My pleasure.
So before we start, Aaron, actually, before I'll always forget this, what are we drinking
today?
Well, I got a couple of choices here.
This is not the beer that I wanted.
This is a local brew.
This is up from the Dallas area, and this is by Tupps.
Now Tupps normally does something called the full grown series, full grown man, full
grown ombre, full grown scallywag, full grown beast.
And they run between 12% and 15% ABV.
This one, however, apparently got the wrong one.
This one is only 9.8% ABV.
So I'm going to go with Goose Island.
Nice.
Goose Island, Bourbon County.
This one is extremely good.
You don't have to be living in Dallas to get this one.
This one you can get nationally.
Oh, awesome.
You know.
And you can't see it in this glass, of course, but this is black.
No light gets through.
What was that?
Coopers black.
Coopers black.
So you told me that this is one of your favorites when you came to Australia.
Yep.
And like what I'm pouring, it is black.
No light gets through.
To be honest, I wasn't super excited about Coopers, but I tasted it the other night and
I have been blown away.
I've been, I'm a changed man.
This is now one of my, this is definitely my favorite stout.
But look at that.
It's as dark as the devil's soul.
Exactly.
When even the suds are brown.
Cheers, mate.
Awesome.
Cheers.
Cheers.
Thank you so much for coming on.
So before we get started, I did want to kind of say, you know, welcome, but also thank
you.
You actually played a major role in my deconstruction.
So I was a Pentecostal youth pastor and I remember watching the Kenham versus Bill
Nye discussion on evolution and creationism.
And funny enough at the time, I thought they both made really good points.
It's a, now I look back and I'm like, what point did Kenham even have?
Funny if you don't mind my sharing it really.
We went to Houston for, they were having a homeschoolers convention.
And you know, my daughter wants to homeschool my grandchild because the schools in the state
are horrible.
They want to, they want to post the 10 commandments in every classroom.
For example, I mean, they just, you can't get a secular education.
Nobody's going to teach evolution.
Your secular education sucks.
And people put their kids through homeschoolers because homeschool, because they don't want
them to learn, you know, reality, forbidden knowledge.
So they had this homeschoolers convention and the keynote speaker was Kenham, who is
the CEO of Answers and Genesis Ministries, because they do their young earth creationism
science denial homeschooling thing.
And so we went down there to protest that.
And there was, I want to say it was Houston Atheist, which was the largest geographic
atheist community, and they challenged Kenham to a debate.
And they chose me as their champion.
They wanted Kenham to debate me.
And my only stipulate, but they were going to do it at the Houston Museum of Natural
Science.
And my only situation was that neither Ken nor I make any money that we would both have
to be pro bono.
And Kenham said that he's not going to debate me because I didn't have a PhD.
He wouldn't debate anybody that doesn't have a PhD.
Okay, well, that's that's his excuse.
However, four months later, he agreed to debate Bill Nye.
Yeah, okay.
That's silly.
Does he even have a PhD?
No.
Bill Nye has a bachelor of science degree, just like I do.
Okay.
So I have to, I have to also formally apologize because he comes from the great country of
Australia and not only does he come from the great country, he comes from a university
only an hour drive from where I am.
And I have to apologize on behalf of.
So I'm on the Sunshine Coast, but we're on the south side of the Sunshine Coast.
But I travel to Kelvin Grove, which is the campus he was part of for work a couple times
a month.
So yeah, it's about an hour's drive.
I have a dear friend who was living in Brisbane at the time, whom I haven't seen in too long
and I stayed at his house for a week as we were, the unholy Trinity was touring Australia.
We spent a week in Brisbane and I had barbecued roux every day.
You know, it's funny, I'm a vegetarian, but I do think I do have less of a problem with
kangaroo, like eating kangaroo, but a lot of meat eaters here still want to eat kangaroo
because so kangaroos aren't farmed.
So there's like, I don't I have a huge problem with ethical ethical problem with the factory
farming. But you know, kangaroos aren't farmed.
So I think it's like, at least they're not farmed, right?
But but a lot of meat eaters in Australia, they won't eat kangaroo because they feel
like it's like, no, I'll never eat a kangaroo.
They kangaroos are lovely.
I'm like, really?
Like, they are.
And I'm a hypocrite for eating for eating meat at all.
I mean, especially mammals.
Yeah.
But well, yeah, I tried being a vegetarian and I just couldn't figure out how to do that.
And it wouldn't work for me.
Yeah, it is. It is hard.
The trick is I went grocery shopping as a vegetarian.
I tried to I could buy tortillas, but then I was stuck with the quandary about what do
you put in a tortilla?
Bean burritos, bean burritos, yeah, but you can make it work.
It's hard. It is hard, though.
I will say it is very like it starts off really hard.
But now now a lot of people come over and they they prefer our vegetarian dishes.
But it takes so much work to to kind of and so much like you've got to know their secret
herbs and spices kind of thing like kids to a vegetarian restaurant in it's inside of
a Krishna temple in downtown.
Oh, we have a nice Krishna temple, which is really lovely.
And the restaurant is really, really nice.
I mean, it's it's like five star restaurant.
It's the ambiance is there, you know, and I think that a restaurant has
everybody's much to do with the food as it does the atmosphere in this place has a lovely
atmosphere. It's a brilliant play.
And a lot of atheists that come through town, they're vegetarian.
They want to go to a good vegetarian restaurant.
We end up at the Icecon Krishna temple.
Ironic, right?
But it's a good place to go.
However, the first time I went, I remember my daughter saying not to be sacrilegious or
anything, but can we go to a Burger King on the way home?
I remember we screwed up a family dinner.
So bad ones.
We're trying to show everyone like vegetarian food can be nice.
And and the grandparents are like, oh, stop it.
McDonald's on the way home and they're laughing because we screwed about.
By the way, if your viewers are wondering, yeah, what's the mention?
This is Durango.
He is a he's a bullsnick, a pitouofas katana for say I.
And he's a baby I've been raising since August.
He was 26 inches long.
He's four feet now.
He should be in excess of six feet by by the time I've had him a year.
Oh, wow.
That's so cool.
I just wanted to show off one of the indigenous snakes that we have.
Because here it's possible to go out and pick up snakes off the ground.
You know, like I would go to camping trips when I was a kid and I would just go
down to the river banks and just come home with fists fulls of snakes.
Really?
Yeah, because there's very few of them are dangerous.
Oh, wow.
We only have we have rattlesnakes and we can immediately recognize what a rattlesnake is.
Then there's a the copperhead or who would show me the cottonmouth or water
moccasin and and they're they're kind of obvious to coral snakes stick out.
Really, you know, the red is easy to tell what those are.
And then copperheads.
And that's it.
That's all the venomous snakes we have.
Oh, wow.
Everything else is harmless.
We have like brown snakes and like red-bellied black snakes and black
snakes and tiger snakes and like a lot of these things.
What I understand from your country is that if it's not a python, it's in a
lapid and that means it's in the cobra cobra or coral snake family.
OK, I do the yeah, there's the the other.
I was walking my beagle, but tragically, he passed away last year.
He was young.
He died of a he actually died of one of the rarest forms of of cancer.
Only five of the dogs have been known to have this type of cancer in the world.
And we sent his lab results to UCLA over in America, actually.
But I was walking him and, you know, and I'm walking along.
And then all of a sudden, I just come across a red-bellied black and it was
this like an apocalypse head up.
And I was like, and I hadn't seen a snake in the wild for a long time.
And I jumped, twisted my ankle.
My dog went bolting.
He didn't know what I was like falling over about.
He didn't see the snake.
Thank God.
And he's running around because he would have attacked it and then got bitten
and then died.
But yeah, it was it was it was scary.
I was with Matt Dilla, honey, at the Perth Zoo.
Oh, OK.
And we were told we've been informed that there are no
Colubrid snakes.
Everything you have in Australia is in a lapid or it's a python.
And so everything is going to be deadly venomous.
If it's not a if it's not an obvious constrictor.
OK, completely different from my country.
So where most of our snakes are colubrids, harmless.
They're these, you know, they come up all the time and they can't do anything to you.
So Matt and I are walking along the course of the zoo.
He stops to look at something and we get a few yards ahead.
And we turn around to see him coming back up to us.
And a snake dropped out of the tree between it.
And it's we this is I don't know what it is, but it's not a python.
We know that.
What kind of that?
Like we make a joke about drop bears, like koala bears that drop from the trees
and attack you. That's a joke.
But like you actually were in a snake of a tree.
That's amazing.
Yeah, and it wasn't it's not like a zoo exhibit thing.
This was just, you know, this you have a lot of trees in the first zoo
and this just was just living at the zoo area.
And so it's not a python.
So stay the fuck away from it.
That's amazing. That's actually amazing.
Do you end up going looking for an Australian python?
Not to not I would get we I we mentioned before we started recording.
I'm I'm interested in getting a excuse me, the jungle carpet python.
Yeah, and let me just show you the show everyone what that looks like,
because it's it's amazing.
I had one where I was I was in the process of buying one
and they discovered that it had an injury that ended the sale.
So OK, yeah, it's it's really like the black and yellow thing.
That's that's kind of you know, I never thought I'd want to own a snake.
But but since holding I had I went over to a friend's house
the other day and he just pulled it out and I held his snake.
I was terrified, actually.
But that something about that fear and having an exotic animal.
I just like that I kind of want a snake now.
And I've been actually thinking about it.
Well, I'll tell you that there's there's somewhat addictive.
OK, I have thirty nine.
Oh, OK.
You have some you have some like stridling,
have like an ostrich didn't have an ostrich at one stage or some sort of
I had an emu, an emu.
That's right. Yeah, it was wild animals.
It was a for a long time.
It was my favorite pet that I'd ever had.
I've had a lot of exotic pets and stuff, but I absolutely loved that emu.
And the city finally came.
I had dickhead neighbors.
They were complaining about the bird.
Well, what can you complain about the bird?
But they did and the city would come over to my house all the time.
I would walk him down to the park twice a week.
I would walk the six foot six inch tall bird down to the park.
And and let him run.
And I would bring a bicycle with me not to not to keep up because you can't
but to catch up because as soon as his feet hit the grass,
he would do this weird thing with his head and you'd zoom right.
And he would run for a moment.
He would just run at super stupid speed.
And now I've got to catch up to him.
But then he would spend the rest of the afternoon
just like sauntering along the park.
And they say it was nice.
I was just I would just enjoy walking along the park with my emu.
I so are that I can see why I don't know what kind of neighborhood you live in.
But I can see why that would be terrifying for someone as a six foot tall.
It's essentially a bird, right?
Because because not birds are dinosaur, right?
Like if they come there literally a dinosaur.
Yeah. You've essentially got a dinosaur running around a neighborhood.
I would be terrified.
I'd be like, what is this madman doing?
And there were there were some children one day.
I mean, I've heard I've been running to some really stupid people out there.
But there was one smart kid who recognized right away as they're playing
in the in the bushes and everything where the where the bird happened to be at the moment.
And one of them coming out screaming, there's a dinosaur in there.
And yeah, indeed, you know, my bird comes out and I said, well, no, you're right.
He is a dinosaur. I mean, literally.
Well, do you do you have another dinosaur right here next to me?
Hold on a second. Let me just show you.
Oh, we were on green screen.
You can't see him. You can only see his yellow head.
Yeah, I can see it kind of.
Yeah, I have a I have a double yellow headed and Amazon parrot next to me.
Oh, wow.
So I have a little tree right next to my my station that the parrot hangs out on.
How many pets do you have in total?
The we have two dogs, three cats, the parrot,
two leopard geckos, a vinaigroon and 39 snakes.
That's so cool. Like that.
You're you're very fast.
We have rats, too.
Rats. Are they like we have rats that are not food rats.
Oh, OK.
So my wife was going to feed that we had one ball python
that refused to take frozen thoughts that would only eat live.
And she's struggling with this.
And so she she had this she wasn't feed it.
It was the python is growing, so she can't keep feeding it pinky rats.
So she gives it a fuzzy rat.
But but now that it's got fur on it, now it's cute.
It doesn't even have its eyes open, but it's cute.
So she has a little blonde rat and she just can't give it to the python.
So you've.
So she bought kitten formula and nursed this fucking thing
to the point that its eyes are open now.
And it's it's yeah, it's it's a beloved friend.
And yeah, that is so that's that's adorable.
Well, to be completely honest,
I mean, just rats make better pets than snakes do.
Yeah. Well, snakes are like they don't have that that same.
They're in the evolutionary things, part of things like that.
There's no way they're not close to us that closest closest rats are right.
And rats you can imagine rats are rats are surprisingly close to us.
I mean, in their genetics, they have hundreds of codons
in it, hundreds of codons at a time in a complete match with us.
Oh, really? Yeah.
So it's it's remarkable how genetically similar they are.
So primates and rodents are sister groups.
So I mean, yeah, we we are we are further from rats
than we are to other primates, of course.
But of all of the other mammals, we are closest to to the rodents.
And rats, in particular, like I said, there's there's
there's long strings of genetic code that are exactly identical.
And you know, he'll come up to significant differences, of course.
But there are there's enough straight up similarity
that makes rats very valuable in medical testing.
Yeah. And that's why we use them, right?
So just just to circle back to what I was saying at the start,
I watched the Ken the Ken Ham, Bill Nye debate.
And there was that one thing that he said
that's the question I always ask in his podcast, which is,
what if anything would change your mind?
So when I asked that question, Bill Nye evidence, Ken Ham,
nothing would change my mind.
And it was that that I thought maybe I should start looking into this
because obviously, creationism is true.
Obviously, we live on a six thousand year old earth.
So let me find the evidence for and against this and come to conclusion.
And it was your series and and eventually your book that actually convinced me.
It was one of the my I consider your book one of my deconstruction books.
So I went from Pentecostal youth pastor to now an agnostic atheist
who, you know, does human rights activism.
And you can see the top here.
So this is your book, foundational falses of creationism.
And you've got a series as well.
And you can see how many notes I've got on the top there because I, you know,
this thing is this thing is just it was just so it just was so inspiring.
And not only did.
And I know you probably will disagree, but you might not agree.
But something about evolution became almost spiritual to me.
It became like I went from speaking in tongues and believing in, you know,
all of that to being just as at at all with philology,
a philology philology philology.
Yeah, that's it.
And like the the how our genetic code is similar.
And, you know, the and just just just thinking about the broadness
and the scope of of life on Earth.
And that that filled me so much.
Or I get the same feeling right now when I look up at the stars and just see,
you know, planets and you know, I get the reference to I get the reference
to the spiritual thing because it is it is rather like Buddhism.
You know, you want to be one with everything philogeny, you are, you know.
But as far as the deconversion thing, thank you for sharing that with me,
because that's enormous.
It's always so frustrating when I'm trying to reason with somebody
that I just can't reach.
And unfortunately, there's people in my family.
That there's just no no getting through.
They're they're they're all the way down the QAnon rabbit hole.
And there's no retrieving them.
Yeah, it's it's funny how there is that there is that rabbit hole.
I call it conspiracy theory sickness.
And you just it's like when someone gets starts dipping their toes in that,
they get they get trapped and then it's all they can talk about as well.
So they'll say, like, you'd be like cutting up carrots for dinner.
And I'm like, carrots, carrots are orange like Donald Trump.
You know, he's the savior of the world.
And they're like, they'll find any way to to bring it back into.
Yeah, I asked I asked my mother once.
I said, you don't really think that Tom Hanks drinks raped babies
blood while he worships the devil, do you?
And she said, you can't prove he doesn't.
That's brilliant.
That's brilliant.
Yeah, facts.
Thank you, D, for the super chat, super chat to spread awareness
that snakes are beautiful creatures and not evil or demonic.
They have pretty markings and literally all muscle.
And if you blink and if you blink, you miss them striking.
Yeah.
Thanks. Thank you, D, for the super chat.
I appreciate it.
So I've got this this drinking game that I wanted to play with you at the start.
So you're very familiar with Eric Hovind, Kent Hovind, Ray Comfort and Ken Ham.
But I wanted to find out how how well you knew them as as people.
So I've got a list of 12 quotes.
And what we're going to do is I'm going to read out a quote and you're going to
guess if it came from Kent Hovind, Eric Hovind, Ray Comfort
or Ken Ham. And if you get it wrong, we both have to take a sip.
Oh, I got to stop drinking.
And I've just been drinking all the way through this conversation.
OK, so I'll start off with an easy one.
I have an IQ of about 160.
I taught science for about 15 years.
These are real ones.
Kent Hovind. Yep, perfect.
Believing in the Big Bang Theory and evolution requires a lot more faith
than believing what the Bible says.
It's hard to discern Eric from Kent because Eric borrows Kent's material.
But I'm going to go, I'm going to say that that one was Ray.
No, that was Eric Hovind.
So we've got to take a sip.
That's a new one.
So I threw in a it's it's hard because, you know,
Eric just repeats all of his father's lies.
I know. And it's not only not only a lot of this is the same talking point.
So I expect that we're probably going to be drinking like 10 times out of it as well.
OK, this one is an easy one.
No one will ever convince me that the Word of God is not true.
Ken Ham. Ken Ham.
Yeah, that was from that famous debate.
Every song has a composer.
Every book has an author.
Every car has a maker.
Every painter has a painter and every building has a builder.
So it isn't a great comfort.
Right comfort. Yep.
Public schools today are going out of their way to teach your children
the exact opposite of what the Bible teaches.
I'm going to say Eric or Ken.
Which one? Yeah.
I'm going to get Ken.
It was Eric. We're going to take a sip.
Good job, good job.
Eric doesn't have his own material.
And some of these are just like race and tweets.
So I don't expect you know, Ken Ham and Ken Hovind have both said
things almost exactly like what Eric said.
So it's. Oh, this whole game is a farce.
It's just to get us drunk quicker.
So that's that's the whole.
So I believe in the
believing in the Bible doesn't mean that you give up on reason
and rational thought believing in what the Bible says
is the most rational decision you can make.
That sounds like Ken Ham.
That's Eric Hovind.
I've heard I listened to a presentation from Ken Ham the other day
where he said almost exactly that.
Oh, right. Yeah.
So I wouldn't be surprised if they've all said something along these lines.
Yeah, they have the most irrational position imaginable.
So they have to say that it is the most rational position.
It's kind of like when Donald Trump says that nobody's better at blank than I am.
Yeah, it's amazing.
It really is.
Evolution is the idea some people have to explain life without God.
I've heard Ray Comfort say that exact sentence.
Yeah.
So unfortunately, though, that is Ken Ham.
But I will say I have heard Eric.
I have had Ray Comfort say that as well.
So we're going to we're going to pass on that.
Well, we're going to have to sit for that one.
Christians are increasingly being punished for the free exercise of their faith
and for standing on God's word and holding the biblical
and holding to biblical conviction about sin.
This is especially apparent with the gay lobby.
Kent Hovind, I don't think would ever say gay lobby.
That's that's more of a Ken Ham statement.
Sure, it'll come up, Eric, but I'm going to go with I'm going to have to go
with Ray Comfort, Ken Ham and Kent Hovind, because those three are distinct
and Eric just a copycat of everybody.
That's it was Ken Ham.
Yeah, you're right.
So and it's so funny that it's a big part for me when I was deconstructing
is we had the same sex marriage plebiscite come through in Australia
where Australia was voting on the right to for LGBT folks to have human rights
and be able to get married.
And they we had a couple of years after you guys.
And I remember a lot of Christians thought it was persecution on them.
They thought that same sex marriage was somehow persecuting them.
And I had no idea how I think somebody in my family explained that.
They believe that they are being persecuted
by not being allowed to persecute other people.
Yeah, yeah, because they they were supposed to impose their biblical
morality and their restrictions on others.
And if you if you're not going to let me impose my restrictions,
that's persecuting me.
Yeah, yeah, that's it's I just couldn't.
I remember a friend's mom put up a photo of a sign in the airport
that just said love is love and from Vodafone or something.
Right. Have you noticed at least when we're talking about the type of
the type of Christian we're talking about, you know, the creationists,
the the anybody just belongs to a religious organization
with the word family in their name.
Have you noticed that when they start talking about family values
or Christian values, what they mean by values
is prejudice against other people?
Yeah, exactly.
And it really is.
And I this person put up this image and said,
does this have to be shoved in my throat everywhere we go?
And I'm like, oh, do you you drive past, you know,
a church on every second corner on the way home?
Like, what are you talking about?
Like, anyway, and they don't just do services on Sundays either.
No, no, they got the community thing going on Wednesday nights
and the other activities as well.
And yeah, and so there's there's a heavy amount of indoctrination
and you don't have to have any kind of college education.
You don't have to understand.
Fuck all. As a matter of fact, it's better if you don't.
Well, when when I was when I was employed as the youth pastor,
my the pastor that was in charge of me said we had a church for the couple of
hundred and he said, how much volunteer work are your leaders doing?
And I said, I don't know what's the most.
I said, oh, no, like 10 hours, 10 or 15 hours, like of work each week.
And and he said, so you should be doing that much as well.
So I was doing my employment at the church,
but then I had to attend Tuesday night prayer meetings.
And I had Friday night youth groups, Sunday morning church, Sunday
up on Sunday night church, anything else that was involved around church,
like gatherings and feasts and small groups.
And yeah, it's it's all encompassing.
Atheists who keep asking for evidence of God's existence
are like a fish in the ocean wanting evidence for water.
OK, so the fish has gills.
There's a way to get oxygen through.
They're able to use their fins against some kind of a matrix
that they have to move through.
So you've got evidence that the water exists.
What we have with, you know, air breathing animals is that the reason
that we believe that we have spirit is because we have air and primitive
people didn't know what air is, but they knew that you would die
if you couldn't breathe.
So they assumed that the movement of air was spirit.
So when you would have a dust devil, you know, they you know,
a dust devil is well, they thought they were literally devils
so that the wind would suddenly appear and whirlwind,
like they'll throw everything around and then disappear in evanescence.
That's supernatural.
The clouds move. How do the clouds move?
Where do the clouds like come from?
They just like poof out of nothing and then they disappear into nothing.
So again, all of that is supernatural.
But the source of the lightning and the tornadoes and the thunderstorms,
all of that rage, all of that's got to be supernatural.
Volcanoes got to be supernatural as well.
So, you know, they spew out all the smoke into the air.
Everything that they saw in the movement of air
was considered to be spiritual.
In one translation, when you breathed your last in another translation,
you give up the ghost.
There is an etymological link between spirit and breath.
The breath of life is the spirit of life.
In Jewish tradition, a child was not alive
until it took its first breath, at which point it would become
infused with the spirit, meaning that it's now taken in air, right?
And so you would also have the reason that people would say bless you
when you sneeze is because one of the symptoms of illness, of course,
you sneeze and then you part of your spirit,
your breath would leave your body and foul spirits would enter in.
Now, you would have other symptoms that follow having sneezed and having sneezed.
You may also have other people start showing symptoms of the same illness.
And this was also called bad vapors, right, or evil spirits.
In any case, these are all communicable diseases, you know,
trespassed or passed by breathing.
And so that's where all of that came from.
The reason that we imagine that we have spirits
is literally nothing more than hot air.
Do you know if I think it's my daddy told me this, but maybe it's it's wrong?
I'm not sure. But it's like the that's where the word spirit comes with with alcohol
as well, because the vapors that would come off spirits, alcohol.
And I've seen that myself, although I've had I've had people challenge me on that.
And I've had difficult, difficult time getting where I could actually record
vapors since I know it.
Yeah, I feel like I've seen it as well.
But I I'm thinking when and where there's a difficult thing to get that
reproduced, where you get what looks like an evaporation from the spirits.
But yeah, that's exactly what they come from.
That's why genies live in two famous places, according to the books.
Genies live in old rugs rolled up.
So when you unroll the rug, what happens?
All the dust in the rug now gets sucked into the air, right?
You get this poof of smoke, right?
That's a genie.
And the other place that they exist is in a lamp.
What happens when you put out the fire in a lamp, you suddenly get that little
puff of smoke? Yeah.
Yeah. Actually, that that's a that you know, how people say, where do we go when
we die? You haven't asked me a stump question yet, so I'm going to have to take
another drink. Yeah, yeah.
My so you know, people say, where do you go when you die?
My favorite answer to that is something that I'm pretty proud of and I thought of.
And it's I think we go to the same place of flame goes when you blow out a candle.
That is like no one thinks about that.
No one thinks like, oh, the flame, where did the flame go?
It's just it's in your ear.
So the action that actually was a question.
The atheists keep asking for evidence of God's existence are like a fish
in the ocean with wanting evidence for water.
Now, so who was that?
Oh, yeah, that's right.
That one, that wasn't can't open because that sounded like it involved thought.
So I'm going to I'm going to say that that was.
That's very comfort.
Yes, that's very comfort.
Yeah, this one, this one's a banger.
No, no, no, no, I can't do a voice story.
No, monkeys are still having babies.
Why don't we they have another human today?
That would be more like Kent Hoven, probably Eric, too.
But I'm going to say can't open just cannot, cannot understand what the
fuck evolution is and that it does not mean a single individual fish
deciding consciously to grow legs and then growing legs and then walking out
of the ocean. It doesn't mean an individual animal turning into another kind of animal.
But he doesn't he doesn't understand population genetics.
And there he's and you're never going to be able to help him with this.
I think he's explained to him over and over and over and over again that evolution
does not ever allow one kind of animal to turn into another fundamentally different kind.
It's always, you know, it's always subdivisions.
So you have one group diversify and diversify and diversify.
And within this category, you have this other subcategory.
And then within that category, you have a subcategory and people who want to say
that they are, you know, I ain't no ape, OK, that that to me.
Are you a mammal?
You're not an ape, because they, you know, because we we wear clothes and build cities
and OK, OK, so let's look back to an episode of Night Rider, the TV show,
American TV show back in the 80s, where you have a computerized car
that drives itself around and has has sentient thoughts.
And this car at one point says that it's not a car.
It's not a car because cars can't think like it can.
Well, let's look at the categories that this car is in.
You're a General Motors Pontiac Firebird Trans Am.
General Motors apparent category within General Motors of several
different groups within one of those is Pontiac.
Within Pontiac, you have the the the line that is Firebird.
Within Firebird, you have the performance model, which is Trans Am.
These are all subcategories.
It never became a different kind at any point.
Kent Hogan cannot understand that.
So he wants a Firebird to turn into a Volkswagen.
Do you? Yeah.
Do you think or the Crocoduck, right?
Do you think that that he's deliberately being deceptive?
Yes. Do you think? OK.
That's interesting. He is fantastically stupid.
I mean, just impressively, goddamn dumb.
But he's also dishonest.
So you think he's really, really stupid.
I mean, he's managed to make millions of dollars, literally millions.
I said four million dollars doing this grift that he's been doing for so long.
But the reason I say that he's really stupid is because he doesn't
understand any concept, even if it's not a threat to his belief system.
Like he was making fun of at some point, somebody was trying to explain to him
with cosmic inflation that it doesn't mean
that the objects in space, the two planets, for example,
or two galaxies or whatever, that it's not that they're growing further apart.
It's that the space between them is expanding because space itself is expanding.
And that's how we do that.
That's an interesting concept.
He, of course, can't get it.
So if the space between them is expanding, then.
By extension, these things would be further apart,
but it's not that they're actually moving on their own volition.
They're literally a space, but he can't get that.
He thought that they were both the same thing and that, therefore,
all of the professors who understand things better than him are all stupid
because that's one of the aspects of Dunning Kruger,
where you think you know more than every expert about things you've never studied.
There's, Amba had a great comment.
I had a conspiracy theorist friend who insisted
that she didn't evolve from their monkey.
I said, fair enough, some of us are still monkeys.
Whoa, she was pissed.
Yeah, so that argument comes into.
And he usually starts with what is an ape?
You know, I didn't come from no ape.
All right, then what is an ape?
Let's let's try to identify it.
Well, they say, well, if you're an ape, where's your tail?
Eric Hoven said this one to me.
If you're an ape, where's your tail?
And I have to say, apes don't have tails.
So that's one of the defining characteristics of of apes.
He didn't even warm.
I saw him not.
I said, he smugly.
He didn't even ask you directly.
Well, in the clip that I saw, you were kind of preaching to someone
at some event and he said something about, you know, we are apes.
And then he looked behind you, you know, like a passive aggressive way
as if like, where's your tail?
And you're like, we don't have tails.
And yeah, it's learn taxonomy.
That's right.
And I had ambassadors show up at my door for that one.
Really?
He told me, you know, the people who go door to door to try to sell.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And they said, well, if you're an ape, where's your tail?
And I said, apes don't have tails.
And the guy looked alarmed
because he didn't have a counter argument for that.
They're on a script.
They just and as soon as you divert from the script, they just
they'll have to pivot, right?
Or so what do you have?
How do you identify what an ape is?
And I was I was on I was on somebody's podcast recently with an
unbelievably stupid man who who could not.
And he kept saying, you wrote this book that we're all apes.
Why am I just
I had to explain what an ape is.
He says, you ever seen a human you ever seen an ape turn into a human?
I'm trying to explain that apes or that humans are a subset of apes.
So we've never seen a human that wasn't an ape.
That would be like like saying it is seeing a doxin.
See a dog turn into a doxin.
I didn't ask you that.
It is amazing what you put up with, what you've gone through.
You you've got you would have some some war wounds from the conversations
you've had on the Internet over the last 15, 20 years or how long you've been doing this.
This image here is actually the image that I love to show.
It's so it's so classic.
It's like the the cold stethoscope touching the skin.
And they both seem to get the same reaction as a chimpanzee or gorilla, baby gorilla.
Another picture that I like is when they show the finger fingertip.
It's I don't know if it's a gorilla or a chimpanzee.
Oh, yeah.
And it's a human finger and you see the fingernail, you see the fingerprint.
One of the definitive characteristics of apes
is that we have this finger.
There you go. We have the fingerprint.
But this is all just characteristic of the of the same designer, like so checkmate.
Yeah. And that's why what look completely different
because they had the same designer.
Yeah, the order doesn't work, does it?
No.
So so this two more.
So evolution, evolutionism is a religious worldview.
Sorry, evolutionism is I can't laugh when I'm saying evolutionism is a religious
worldview that is not supported by science, scripture, popular opinion or common sense.
Well, I'll grant that it's not supported by scripture
because that's manmade mythology by people who didn't know what the fuck they were talking about.
But otherwise, that is completely wrong.
And I have for a quarter of a century now been offering a challenge
that I will prove evolution to your satisfaction.
If you if you really pretend that there's no evidence for evolution,
let me show it to you in a Socratic interaction.
Now, by Socratic interaction, OK, so we have to get the definitions down, right?
You have to understand you have to say I'm not making up these definitions.
I can pull up from the academic literature.
This is what it is, right?
Because like Ken Hovind, for example, he kept arguing for things he made up
that no science teacher, professor, nobody, no textbook ever said.
He's just making up his own shit like kinds, for example.
You know, that macro evolution is one kind
turning into another fundamentally different kind.
Oh, yeah, well, show me the textbook that says that because there isn't one.
It was never a professor that said anything like that.
Here's what it actually is. Here's what we actually teach.
So I've been trying and offering to show it to explain evolution to people.
And they have to get that we have to get through the first the basics.
You get through the basics and we go to the next level.
I can't get anybody to the basics.
They are so hell bent on defending a lie
that they cannot ever admit even that the the fundamental definition
that they were taught is wrong.
That even what macro evolution and micro evolution
that the meanings of those two words that's in the literature.
They can't even admit that they would rather admit
where they would they would rather say take what trailer trash Hovind
or the convicted fraud said.
Then what, you know, you see California,
Berkeley says in their in their study or or Harvard or whatever.
This is what they're actually taught.
This is what the actual definition is.
Don't believe the convicted fraud when he says this is what science are teaching.
No, this is this is what science is teaching.
You can prove that because you can look it up on their website.
This is literally what they're teaching.
These are the definitions.
They won't.
Because young earth creationists have bought into this weird house of cards.
And that if they make any concession at all,
the whole thing comes down.
You can meet a number of theistic evolutionists
and they're they're a lot harder to convince because their their their faith
is not so precarious.
It's not built entirely on lies.
But for young earth creationists, it is.
There is not one word of truth
to any creationist apologetics anywhere ever period.
Well, I make this challenge also.
Show me one actual fact, something we can both verify is actually true
that is also indicative of of the creationist position
over the evolutionary position.
I can show lots of those.
I got long lists of facts that we can show for support of evolution.
Nothing at all, but kiss nada for creation.
And so the conversations that we have when I when I make these challenges
on the very rare occasion that somebody takes up my challenge,
we can't get to level one.
Well, I show what the definitions are.
Do you understand it?
Except that these citations from all of these universities,
this is what it is.
These are what the definitions are, according to the university's
teaching this, do you understand and accept that?
No, I believe what Kent Hovind said, because he was convicted
of fifty four counts of fraud and that makes him more reliable.
The what what I love what I would I would if I had a magic ability,
you know, you could fly or become invisible.
I would love the ability to be able to forcibly lock someone in a room
and make them have a conversation with me until we both agree.
I just like there's some people like I'm just like, OK, no, no,
we're going to go through every definition.
We're going to we're going to find the letters of the alphabet if you have to.
We're going to and we're going to because I just don't know.
Like I hate the wiggle game, the wiggle when people wiggle out of it
or they use different definitions like 2005 kits Miller versus Dover.
That's what that was the fantasy that you're talking about right now.
I was going to see that realized.
You've got somebody on the stand being cross examined.
He's going to be forced to admit and he wouldn't.
Oh, wow. Yeah.
What was his name?
Michael Bay, he would not admit no matter how obvious he can't.
His entire his entire identity is based on his lie.
So when he said that science will never
come up with an explanation for this thing
and the defense drops a pile of books,
fifty four different books, all of which are explaining the thing.
He said science would never explain.
I remember the answer was effectively that's not good enough.
What would be good enough?
Yeah, you you said this this now we're moving the goalpost.
You said this would never happen. This happened.
And so the judge in that case.
Was a a Republican George Bush appointed conservative Christian judge.
But he was also honest.
And he lamented that the the the people for the intelligent design.
Would habitually lie time and time again.
To conceal the real the real agenda or whatever.
He wanted to have them. He wanted to have Michael B. He hit with perjury.
Or yes, how he was.
He was advised that because of time constraints or whatever,
let's just not bother with that would be the more important matter is to me.
Hit that man with perjury because we know that decades from now,
you're going to be saying what he didn't lie on the stand or else they would have
charged you with perjury. Yeah, charging with perjury.
Let the record in this motherfucker lied on the stand over and over again.
Because that's what a hundred is all about.
Absolutely, every single young Earth creationist argument
is always only a lie. That's it.
Every one of them. There's not one that's based on fact.
Never. Period.
Hmm.
That is based on fact.
There could be a distortion of fact.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, of course, but there's nothing that you can actually.
There's nothing that any of them can show is actually true
that we can also confirm is actually true.
That is indicative of their position over the evolutionary explanation.
Nothing, nowhere.
And and I remember showing some friends
your videos and saying, like, this isn't made up like this.
Like, let me just like I've done the read.
I've looked into our own sources, like he's not being hyperbolic here.
And so it's like I'm being and I care.
Your book, your book goes right into
the quotes like that.
You know, people get this book, it's amazing.
The quotes are like it's OK to lie if you're lying for Jesus.
And, you know, there's an audible version as well.
Fantastic. It's read by yourself.
I just the links in the description.
Go check out the book. Go check out the book.
It's it's really good.
It was one of my, you know, I think it's better than the God Delusion.
I just it was it was for me.
It was it's it's it's just so good.
I'm links in the description.
Actually, I'll put in the the chat as well.
Someone said that they like your pie
and they wanted to know what what's not that was.
My pie, your tie.
Tie.
I think they're referring to my bull snake.
Digital Hammurabi said, are you serious?
Deep Drinks podcast should never be taken seriously.
He can't even ground his instantiation.
Aaron should never give David the atheist the time of day.
Thank you, Digital Hammurabi.
That's Dr. Josh. I hope you.
Of course, that's Dr.
You have the attention of Dr. Josh.
You're in the big time.
Yeah, he's he's the he's I love I love Josh
and and and he does so much.
I just they're just lovely people.
Um, except he the only comments he ever gives
is that kind of the comments similar to that.
And I love it. I wouldn't expect I've had I've had a good
pleasure to have him on a couple of shows with me.
And he did the most beautiful mic drop moment
where he actually did the mic drop thing.
And I ended the show with that.
And I will thank you for that is the perfect way to go out.
I've even got the doom metal piece
that's appropriate to play for that.
Oh, nice, nice.
He signed my book and I told him to write something sassy.
And he said, David, that's a bitch.
I love and then Megan, she hurt me with this one.
I told him to write something sassy.
And that that bitch line is a quote from something else.
It's an inside joke.
But the Megan wrote, you're not bad for a New Zealander.
And that was the most offensive thing she could have written.
That was like that was crossing a line.
Like how dare she say that I have been twice to your country.
I have been twice to your country.
And the first time I was on my way to Australia
and I managed to get a 10 hour layover in Auckland.
Oh, yeah, I'm definitely going to make use of this.
Yeah. So there was a guy picked me up, picked me up at the airport,
run me out to his house, beautiful house, wonderful, wonderful place.
Warren Harding was his name.
He has a wonderful place.
And he he ran me around for the day and I had a great visit.
He took me out to the beach, Peahaw.
You familiar? No, no, no, I don't.
It's well, it's in northern northern New Zealand,
but it's it's a lovely volcanic iron beach.
So it's not sand.
It's it's iron and it's otherworldly.
All of the all the rock formations, the caves behind it out in the sea,
the cave formation behind me, the way that the rainbow effect
in the in the black iron sand when you walk in it, all of that was so lovely.
I mean, here I am alone.
My wife needs to experience this.
And a year or two later, I brought my wife out to that beach.
Yeah. Yeah.
And that was that was I loved your country.
You're my wife.
That was always one of her.
One of her ideal places to move was New Zealand.
And we I'm from the New Zealand is amazing.
I was just offensive to be called a New Zealander.
I love the South Island.
I haven't been to the North Island, but the South Island.
I went there for my honeymoon with my wife.
And it was amazing.
Yeah.
Yeah. So you're talking about like Wellington, right?
That's in the South. Yeah.
No, Wellington is North Island, but we got.
You got Wanaka, Queenstown.
Yeah, Wellington's the the south of the North Island.
OK. So.
Yeah, it's it's it's amazing.
It's amazing country.
It was a joke to just slam on it then.
But let me just let me just share this tab.
I I got the unique experience of somebody
to drive their Lexus down the highway,
open highway on a road trip on the wrong side of the car.
Yeah.
You know, and I'm trying to figure out how to do it.
But every time I have to,
every time I wanted to hit the the turn signal to change lanes,
I would turn on the windshield wipers.
Yeah, I think that.
But at least nobody died.
Yeah, that's good. That's good.
There's there's an amazing little spot in there's an amazing little spot
in New Zealand where there's lots of penguins that come up,
which is really cool.
And there's the special type of penguins.
The trip we took, we we went to Hobbiton.
Oh, yeah. So we got to see that.
And then there was another beautiful thing about there's this cave
that you go punting through.
Punting cave.
And there's all these bioluminescent glowworms
in the ceiling of this cave that make a galaxy.
Yeah, I think I think I know the one.
And then when you come when you eventually come out of that cave,
it's in the jungle. I mean, it was so beautiful.
So amazing.
Is that the one ladies look like that?
Oh, let me look at what screen am I on?
I was trying to look at something else.
Yes, yes, exactly that.
Yeah, so I am so lucky that I got to experience
things like this in my life that I I'm so delighted
that I was that I was able to take that trip.
In particular.
Well, there's it is it is amazing.
If you ever come to the Sunshine Coast again,
I'll try and get you into the Wildlife Hospital at the Australia Zoo.
You get to like get up and close with the I've got friends who work there.
And you get up in Brisbane area, right?
Yeah, it's just a little bit.
That's Steve Irwin's zoo.
Yeah, yeah. OK.
Yeah, it's got it's got you know, of your country, by the way,
loved loved Australia.
I enjoyed that zoo.
We we had such a good time, the whole thing, the whole bit of it.
Yeah, it's it's it's it's a lot I do.
I want to say the atheist community of Australia.
Is that the name?
They were fantastic hosts.
Oh, OK. Yeah, they flew us around with an entourage.
So that we would all board the plane like nine people at a time.
All together we did.
Matt and I did Auckland and Perth.
And Seth and his family joined us for Brisbane, Melbourne and Sydney.
And that was such a magnificent trip.
Loved every minute of it.
And ACA was just they were brilliant hosts.
I remember seeing ever been treated.
Oh, wow, that's that's a I'll have to look them up,
because that's I don't know much about them, but that sounds awesome.
There's there's actually.
The I remember seeing the videos that you guys did of that,
like it was just so cool to see you guys in the country.
And people are asking, yes, I'm Australian.
For those of you here, I used to be a Pentecostal youth pastor.
Now I'm an agnostic atheist and I have deep conversations
about religion, philosophy and science with guests over a drink of their choice.
And today we're drinking dark beer with our own raw subscribe.
If you like this stuff, this is actually something I wanted to show you.
And this is a little bit of research I did myself.
And I actually called up a friend who worked at Australia Zoo
to get this information and I want to get your thoughts on that.
So when and just let me know if you can see it.
But and you can hear it.
But I remember looking at
like the the idea of OK, let's look at Noah's Ark.
Let's look at Noah's Ark and let's try and make it work.
And then I was like, OK, well, what we need to do
is we need to look at all the endemic species of Australia.
So the species that are only found in Australia
and we're going to not include fish and we're not going to include birds.
And let's just pretend that birds could fly around for a year
and then eventually make it to Australia.
But these are just the endemic species.
So I worked out, I went through some textbooks
and I worked out that we have 18,207 plants that are only found in Australia.
Three hundred and thirty five mammals that are only found in Australia.
Eight hundred fifty two reptiles and two hundred and thirteen amphibia.
Amphibia can't survive in saltwater.
So what I did is I asked the question, you know, is it like is it
they have like traveled all this way, not left the fossil anywhere
and across the land land bridge.
But then, you know, you know, in someone with no no stuff.
But what I did is I eventually called
about a call to a friend about the koala.
So let's see if we can hear this on any of the animals.
Can you hear that each?
Now, a lot of Australian animals have a very particular diet.
I have two friends who have worked for the Australian Wildlife
Can you hear that audio?
Yeah, I call and they've shown me how picky koalas can be.
I've heard some creationist said that maybe on the flood
they use other leaves and sprayed them with eucalyptus oil
that they had made beforehand.
The Bible doesn't mention this.
This is speculation and that also can't really work.
So you're you're a vet nurse and you've worked with koalas.
Would you say it's possible for them to just live on like eucalyptus spray
sprayed on random other flora to survive?
Or if like there's a possibility for them to survive on anything else
besides eucalyptus for, say, like five, six years?
No, I don't know.
The koalas can't be moved to parts of New South Wales
where they have different eucalyptus species there.
The koala would literally choose to tie in the tree
rather than each species of eucalyptus that they're not used to
or their their body isn't used to.
So even in Southeast Queensland, when you release koalas,
you have to release them within five kilometres of where they are found.
So many different types of species and types of and there's also different ages
of in a tree you've got the older mature leaves
that koalas will tend to eat if they're feeling sick,
or they've got certain digestive issues,
but then you've got the really fresh young ticky leaves
that are needed for the green fruit and some koalas will prefer that.
So it's also got to do with their different weather up to in their life span.
And if they're feeling sick, what sort of health issues they have
and they tend to self medicate on different types of eucalyptus.
Wow, that's really interesting.
Thanks for telling me that that's really helpful to my video, actually.
So imagine that they so so if you couldn't if you couldn't fully
understand the Australian accent there, she said that they would literally choose
to die in the tree than to eat and starve to death
and to eat a leaf that they're not not wanting at the time.
And, you know, I've had two friends who work at the same wildlife hospital.
One of them they took us they show us at the back.
What they do is they bring in they bring in all these different branches
from eucalyptus trees, all different types, and they go leaf shopping.
So when when the koalas are injured, they pick them up and they bring them along
and they get them to sniff the leaves and they go, no, I don't want that one.
And they go to the next branch.
No, I don't want that one. No, I don't want that.
And they go leaf shopping take take like sometimes half an hour.
They go, yep, I want those leaves.
And then they're the only leaves that will eat.
Otherwise, it would just choose to die.
So to imagine that they crawl all the way to Australia
across a land bridge that has disappeared from Mount Ararat, living on nothing
until eucalyptus trees started growing again.
It was just the idea of them swimming to Australia.
So it's just truly amazing.
And, you know, when I when I just started even looking at it
from I've got no science degree or anything, but looking at it,
just just just trying to get to the bottom of it using like just common knowledge
that you can find in like a children's textbook or not even like a like a high
school is textbook. I was like, this just this is can't this can't work.
And if and if you're going to the other thing, too, is if you're going to say
it was a miracle, like I've heard someone say,
well, maybe God popular the earth with animals straight after the flood, right?
So like maybe you like put them all in their like locations all around the world.
And it's like, well, then what's the point of the arc?
Like, what was the point of the arc in the first place?
If just don't take any of the animals, just get on the boat and float around for a year.
And then what was the point of having a boat?
What was the point of having a flood?
If God was concerned with a handful of people in the Middle East,
why didn't he just blink the handful of people in the Middle East into the cornfield?
Or, hey, here's an idea.
Why not show up?
And say, hey, you're fucking up and don't make me make
don't make me turn this car around.
It's it's not hard.
It's not that hard to be a good dad.
Hmm.
But to kill every koala and every dough in South America,
everything because a handful of people in the you created.
Hmm. So it's your fault.
Well, one of one of the one of the things that some that Marcian
one of the church early church fathers did is he rejected the Old Testament God.
He said, no, Jesus doesn't represent the Old Testament God.
The Old Testament God is an evil deity for the Earth.
Imagine this. Imagine right now I would get my channel will get taken down.
I'd probably get canceled by the incident.
But imagine me picking up a rat or some sort of a like a creature
and just drowning it on screen right now, just holding it in a bucket
and just plopping it in there and drowning it.
Like the incident would not only come after me like for drowning an animal.
I might show we get taken down.
I'd be canceled everywhere.
It'd be horrible.
But most a lot of the people who, you know, a lot of the religious folks
believe that God did that to everything.
And I'm I'm sitting here with Marcian saying, no, stop teasing God.
He wouldn't do that. Like I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm telling Christians
and Muslims and and Hindus to stop teasing God
because God wouldn't be as silly as you're making him out to be.
He wouldn't. Yeah, I just noticed.
Captain Dadpouls says, yeah, I have four kids and I haven't killed any of them yet.
That's it. That's it.
Captain Dadpoul is coming on the show, actually.
So it's going to be a good episode.
Just met him a couple of weeks a few weeks back
in in Phoenix for American Atheist National Convention.
Oh, cool.
The the the community online is is he had a great presentation, by the way.
And since he's he's listening at the moment, I still need notes
from his presentation where I'd like to I'd like to watch it
or share his video presentation if there is one.
Oh, cool. Oh, there you go.
Awesome. Well, someone mentioned before, D mentioned.
And this is something I want to talk about.
Aaron, thank you for supporting the Satanic Temple.
So you're an atheist.
You also describe yourself as an anti-theist,
and maybe you can quickly touch on that.
And then you're also now a Satanist.
Can you explain for the people who are now terrified of you?
And not just because you look like Satan himself,
but because, you know, you yourself are Satanist and and an anti-theist.
What is an anti-theist and what is a Satanist and why are you now a Satanist?
Well, one of the definitions for anti-theist
is that we're of the opinion that that religion is of a net negative
against humanity historically.
I had a debate on this with T jump recently
where he was he was arguing that that religion does more good than harm.
And I had to argue that it does more harm than good
because it adversely affects everybody that's involved in it.
And people don't realize how much damage it's done.
But I mean, everybody that comes out of religion
will talk about what it's done to them.
Yeah. And so there may be maybe because there's there's conflicting results,
you know, in some studies that some people will do better in a medical situation
if they think that there are people praying for them.
But there's other studies that show that you will actually do worse
if you think that there's people praying for you.
So I would think that those two cancel out
that the placebo effect is the best that religion can offer.
But otherwise, what it does is it is debilitating to absolutely everybody.
And the clergy project has illustrated that people who come out of religion
find that they are more tolerant,
they're less judgmental, they're more curious than they used to be.
And that religious people.
And when I'm when I'm saying this, I'm talking primarily, you know,
like Christians and Muslims, they have an awful lot of bigotry
against, you know, there's transphobia and anything that isn't gender binary.
There's there's a lot of things that they've been conditioned to react to negatively.
You know, especially regarding, you know, sexual orientation and things of that nature.
But when they come out of religion and they start analyzing things very differently
and and well, you know, this isn't really the problem that I imagined it to be
once upon a time.
So I think that that religion has always only ever
impeded, retarded or reversed projects, progress in every application it has ever touched.
Hmm. It is nothing but lies.
That's it. That's all that's all there ever was.
And how can any good have come from that?
Hmm. And I mean, when I when I say it's nothing but lies,
I mean, seriously, there is no truth to it.
And as I found it, this.
This Abraham Lincoln quote that somehow I didn't know about my whole life
until like a year ago, where he said that it is an established maxim
in morals that he who makes an assertion without knowing whether it is true or false
is guilty of falsehood.
And the accidental truth of the assertion does not justify or excuse him.
So it's basically like when you make up your own statistics on the fly.
Is that lying? Yes, that's lying.
You don't know.
So pretending to know things you don't know.
That's what faith is, right?
That's the entirety of it.
Pretending to know things you don't know that you can't that it's not even possible to know.
Oh, religion is isn't always was bad.
There's no good that comes from it.
I mean, if there is good that comes from it.
It's it's the only excuse we ever get is like, well, what is the harm in a little white lie?
It makes you feel better. That's it.
That's that's the most you can get out of religion.
There's it's I feel like I'm wearing a scrunchie
because this guy has just a scrunchie.
It's just so cool.
Do you get bitten much? I must ask.
No, no, no, I've been bitten by a couple of babies.
I mean, babies tend to be bitey.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So what with the Satanic Temple?
I saw this amazing video you put on your channel just recently.
Let me just let me just bring it up so you can give the context.
But you went with a a like gathering, a Satanic gathering.
Oh, yeah, I went to I went to Satan in Boston.
So that was beautiful.
Let me just show everyone what we're talking about here.
So it's not that you already look like Satan himself, kind of like.
And I had a friend who and I say that respectfully.
I had a friend who said he saw that you were coming on the channel
and he's not like in the community or anything.
But he I messed with me and said, Oh, my God, I can't.
I hope I'm so excited for him to come on.
He's like, I hope he dresses like a pirate.
It's like, OK, because look at this.
Look at this.
You got some fake horns on.
This is someone else's video, by the way.
This is a Christians video, I guess.
I just thought of a slip of that myself to my own channel.
This is this is the clip.
Yeah, this is this is on your channel.
Oops, I didn't mean to download.
But yeah, you like they just got the slow most shot of you with your.
On to just so it's so bad ass.
So what is oh, well, I wasn't even sharing it.
Sorry, guys. Oh, that was silly.
So this is the this is the clip.
Yes, he's walking down your horns on.
I just love it so much.
Oh, that's so good.
So so what's with a couple of wasn't sharing that.
So why are you a Satanist?
What is Satanism and what is the Satanic temple?
So do you believe I have admired the Satanic temple for a number of years?
For their activism and defense of the First Amendment?
As a recognized religion, the Satanic temple is capable of of of civil rights.
Activism that that typical atheist organizations are not capable of.
I'm I'm on the board of directors for American atheists, but we are not a religion.
You know, that creationists everywhere are the people that I argue with all the time.
Always want to tell me that atheism is a religion.
And they want to say that evolutionism is in the religion.
But neither one of them are recognized as religions.
And Satanism is, which is ironic, because there's very people who tell me
that atheism is a religion and that evolutionism is a religion.
Don't recognize Satanism as a religion.
But the US government recognizes Satanism as a religion.
And that means that they have a seat at the table when it comes to freedom
of religion situations, defense of the First Amendment.
So I don't believe in the second level.
The Satanic temple has made inroads that that
that non religious that purely sectarian or purely secular
organizations like American atheists could not do.
And then when when Texas, where I live,
started making these these attacks, not just against trans people,
but also against women's reproductive rights,
the Satanic temple came up as as like a sole defender.
You know, the only religion that had a religious reason for allowing
abortions and defenses of trans people and everything like that.
And I realized I for the longest time,
I said that I couldn't be Satanist one, because it's too obvious.
Yeah, I've been accused of being a Satanist since I was 11.
I mean, just all my life, I've been accused of being a devil worshiper or something.
I I had to argue against people wanting to accuse me of being satanic.
All my life. I mean, I wrote a motorcycle.
I played Dungeons and Dragons. I had long hair.
I listened to heavy metal. I was just all of that shit.
And then I realized, you know, at some point I since I am like the most obvious,
why am I not?
I know that I know that the Satanic temple is an atheist organization.
They don't believe in anything supernatural.
They are a religion only by a definition that I don't hold to myself.
But that the US government does.
The US government will will classify a body of ethics
as a religion, and the Satanic temple does have a body of ethics that I agree with entirely.
So why am I not lending my support
to this organization that is doing such good work and needs more help in doing so?
So they're they're essentially pushing back against religion by becoming a religion
and then using and then using their rights as a religion to kind of change the world.
Since they're kind of an offshoot of the of the Church of Satan,
which was founded in 1966 by Anton Leves,
but the problem with the Church of Satan and I got it, I went to the last satanic
the last Satan con, which was in Scottsdale, Arizona, a year ago.
And I interviewed there were there was a number of Church of Satan people there.
And I was happy to see that.
The difference between Church of Satan and satanic temple is kind of left versus right.
I mean, the Church of Satan has always been a more right wing kind of organization
and the satanic temple has always been a bit more left wing.
But otherwise, the COS people that I interviewed
said that they lament that the Church of Satan had an opportunity
to advocate for religious rights that they didn't do.
And and that that's what the satanic temple is all about.
So I realized there's a shut up dog.
I might have interviewed you, I should bring my my guy in.
And we don't know that's cool either.
All this talk about Satan is causing the spirits in the room to hear that animals.
Yeah. Wow. Yeah.
Get out of the microphone.
Don't get up there.
So so the Church of so the Church of Satan is
is like is essentially activism.
I I've told this a million times.
I don't think he's ever coming on.
But I've been trying to get the we've had lunch and talked about it.
But he's going through some court cases to do with his activism.
But the head brother of the Nusa Temple of Satan is meant to come on.
And he it's so funny because the guest here chooses the drink of choice.
And I've had Michael Jones of inspiring philosophy on a Christian
apologist twice, both times.
He wants to drink straight scotch just by itself or on the knee or on the rocks.
Lugable and 16 and I get that.
I went through my 20s with a bottle of Captain Morgan.
Yeah, yeah, and Delphini 15.
OK, so you've got the Christian apologists drinking straight scotch.
The Satanist, he wants to drink tea and bake me personally.
Pumpkin scones.
So I've got the Satanist drinking tea and pumpkin scones
and the Christian apologists drinking straight whiskey.
And I love the dichotomy that my show has helped produce.
So it's a wild time here.
So you're you you're a I've got I've got some questions for you
around your belief in God, if that's OK.
So let me let me let me do it.
Can we take a first off?
Well, like a minute break while I put Mr. Cranky Pants.
Yeah, yeah, let's do that.
And I'll I'll shout out some of your stuff.
Give me just a moment.
I'll be right back.
I'm going to put him back because he's he's losing patience
with this whole show business.
Yeah, it's like you stink of you stink of beer.
Get out of here.
So for the people who don't know Aaron, I don't know why you don't.
But he's got a super popular YouTube channel.
That was just amazing.
Like and some of the stuff you can watch.
This is my classification of life.
The foundational fossils of creationism.
They're like ten minute videos of the chapters of this book.
And they're 15 years ago now.
I mean, this is before you could upload a ten minute video yet.
You can only upload a video on YouTube.
And, you know, I've actually taken, copied both this first video
and this video to have and I like combined them together
and I would send them to people to because I didn't want them
to not watch the second part because I think it's just amazing.
This is this is this is good stuff.
And of course, the book, get the book and the audio version is free.
If you haven't got an audible account, you can use that link and sign up for free.
Definitely recommend it.
Oh, and let me just shout out.
Let me just shout out what we've got going on deep drinks as well.
Just making sure I am sharing.
So coming up, we have moving past with the just trauma with Jeremy
and we're drinking Red Bull drinking vodka and Red Bull.
Then we have Finding E.T. with someone who worked at SETI.
We have Warzone Journalism in Ukraine.
That's going to be a really cool episode.
So he's over there, he literally flew over to Ukraine
and started doing journalism over there and now is demining.
That's going to be really cool.
And we have a lot of really awesome episodes, including
Sexy Education, which is a panel of these fine folks,
as well as my beautiful wife, who will be coming on.
And we're talking about sex education after you leave.
Christian Lee and, of course, Captain Dadpoole coming on.
And I've got I've got the drink ordered and we're ready to go.
But yes, we're having with him.
Let me see.
It's a Black Seal Spice Rum.
Black Seal Spice Rum.
Got things Black Seals size Spice Rum.
Yeah.
And we had I got another one
who's I wasn't going to read out everyone, but
Sidney Davis, Jr.
We're drinking the Scotch and I cracked a little early.
It's 12 year old and it's just so delicious.
And also, this image is an image from hell.
It's she runs a podcast called Growing Up Fundy.
And I'm coming I'm going on this week, actually.
And this image is used AI to blend a picture of Jesus
with the veggie tails.
And it's it's I'm actually going to hang it on my child's wall.
It's too. It's creepy.
It's just I love how creepy it is.
It's something from my night when I was a little kid that it was
a yellow submarine characters, which are kind of creepy, too.
Oh, nice.
And I had the secular rarity coming on and we're drinking.
I ordered two craft beers from his local brewery.
Two craft beers cost me forty five dollars.
He said, no, this is the beat.
I was like, all right, you know what?
With this is what we do in deep drinks.
And this this this show does send me broke.
So I do think all the super chats and all the channel
members that are here today and the Patreon supporters.
But we drink in what the guest drinks.
And so that's what we're doing.
But some. Yeah. No, I get it.
I once paid seventy five dollars before tax for a six pack of beer.
Whoa. Yeah.
What was that?
It was by a brewery called Evil Twin.
Yeah, it is banned in Texas.
Yeah. I was in Arizona at the time.
And we I had a six pack of these Evil Twin and they were pint cans.
So it's not the little twelve ounce cans, it's a big can.
And and they're eighteen percent ABV.
That's a spirit, almost.
That's like a. Yeah, that's not bad.
Yeah. Yeah.
I shared this with a couple of friends of mine
and would like put between two pints of 18 percent.
Yeah, you're not driving.
Yeah.
I remember I remember when I first came into home.
You shut up.
I remember I didn't want to do any of the the classic stuff.
So and I ended up dumping like an extra bag of sugar into one of my brews.
It tasted horrible. I called it sugar bomb.
It's like it was it was gross of a beer.
But I got to share something with I was in almost exactly a year ago.
Matter of fact, I think one year ago today, I was in Camden, London.
And we had this flat above this bar in Camden.
And I went down to the bar every night.
And it was it was it was disappointing because they didn't have any good beer.
If I went to Brew Dog, I could get a good beer, but not at this place.
The best they had was Guinness.
And so what I would do is I'd say, OK, give me a Guinness
with a shot of of of Jack Daniels in it.
And then let me add this.
What is that chili or scorpion chili flakes?
Nice. Yep. Wow.
But I hate chili beer.
I hate it. I hate it so much.
But but do you like it?
Do you actually like the taste of chili beer?
It's in my pocket.
Oh, I mean, I just I just pulled this from my pocket.
So now somebody somebody brought me something that was better than this.
I have this in my pocket and I have this sitting in my counter.
I run out of this.
But somebody had when we did debate con a couple of weeks back
and somebody brought me a big old can of it was different ground flakes.
I don't like sauces.
People bring me sauces all the time, but sauces are like their own liquid flavors.
And I like a dry rub.
And so this was Carolina Reaper, ghost pepper, scorpion pepper and habanero
all at all just dried and ground.
So they've got whole seeds in it, as well as, you know, bits of the pepper themselves.
And the mix was really brilliant.
Unfortunately, I think I probably had nine too many beers
and left it in the restaurant at the hotel on nine too many beers.
So so well, just to quickly finish my story, I drank the sugar bomb
and I was drinking one night.
And next thing I know, I look up from my laptop, I was coding away.
It was like two in the morning. I look at my laptop and I went, uh oh.
And everything's spinning.
But it wasn't spinning when my eyes are closed.
It's spinning when my eyes are open.
And I'm, uh oh. And I'm walking around the street.
So I had to stay awake.
So I was walking.
I'm drinking a bottle of water, walking up and down the street in the rain,
trying to like, so bravo, I must have looked like a madman.
Like, the only thing that could have been better is if I had an emu with me.
That does improve your image.
Aaron, I actually had.
So this is something I just, I used to have,
like I'm talking only like six months ago,
I used to have over 50 different species of chili growing in my backyard.
And our backyard, our backyard is only about five meters by five meters.
It's tiny. We live in almost a unit.
And I give you an example, give me some ideas.
Okay. So I had the Carolina Reaper, obviously,
the Trinidad Scorpion butch tea, which is the Australian
variety that people are arguing that the testing criteria is different
for the Carolina Reaper and the butch tea and the butch tea is hotter.
And it makes people hallucinate. It's that hot.
So and but one of the episode of the Simpsons,
when the coyote starts talking to Homer in Johnny Cash's voice,
I have some advice and Homer says,
if it's to lay off the insanity peppers, I'm way ahead of you.
So so but what I've noticed,
so I was trying to make my hot sauce brand, essentially,
and I really wanted to get good at making hot sauce.
And I said, well, if I need to find out what chilies are like,
because obviously there's the anams, there's the chins,
there's the different varieties and they attack your tongue differently
and they attack you. They have a full mouth flavor.
They have they linger or they they come aggressively.
They they're sharp or they're deep.
And I did a lot of research.
But one of these chilies and I wanted to send you some powder
and I do know what I might still do it because I do still have some frozen
and I might be able to drive them.
But there's this chili that was found only in one part of the Brazilian
rainforest next to one part of the river, and it's called Marupi Amarila.
And let me just show you.
It's white, it's perfectly white, and it's not the hottest chili.
It's probably about two hundred and fifty thousand
scovils or about to five hundred thousand scovils.
So it's it's bloody hot.
It's like up there with a habanero, but it's not like a ghost pepper.
But what's interesting about this little bush and it's a beautiful bush is it's
some death. They're so I don't know if you'd like this,
but they're so aromatic.
They smell you crack one and it smells like perfume just everywhere.
Like that might my thing was spicy with the peppers
is that I thought that Carolina Reaper has a pungency to it
that kind of ruins the flavor of some things.
And when I had it mixed with the other peppers, all of them together
and like in that powder form made everything taste better.
So I wish I could find whatever that was that somebody gave me.
But that was awesome.
But normally Carolina Reaper will ruin the tape.
Now, now Scorpion is not as hot as Carolina Reaper,
but the flavor is perfect.
OK, interesting. I got a scorpion.
It just makes everything taste better.
I've got this.
It's so it's so easy to if you get one chili plant like a.
Thai bird's eye and another chili plant, you stick them next to each other
and you get a paintbrush and you open up one of the pods and you get some pollen
and stick it on another flower of the other plant.
That pod will grow and then those seeds will be a new variety of chilies.
There's there's hundreds of thousands of species of chilies.
So there are there are species of chilies that are like people.
Let me just show this. This.
Interesting thing about evolution, you know, these these plants
devised this because birds don't have capsaicin receptors.
So my parrot here don't bite me.
My my my parrot here can eat all the hot chilies he wants.
He'll never feel anything from it.
But but the seeds will go through their digestive system and somehow survive.
And of course, birds will fly everywhere and poop out the seeds.
And that's how these plants get around.
But mammals who don't have that flight distribution advantage
will just eat the seeds and you don't get the benefit of that.
So they the the peppers are trying to defend themselves.
By developing this this level of capsaicin that makes them toxic.
And yet we're breeding them to be more toxic
because we like it.
So and there's stuff like so these ones here,
they hang zero for common stales.
They were taken up on into space.
In 1987, a scientist with the Chinese
academic of sciences discovered that sending vegetable seeds,
including chili seeds into space, exposing them to zero gravity,
increased the mutation rates by 100 times.
So you've got these like super huge chilies that are that are that are wild.
And this this guy here, the hippie seed company,
he lives on the 10 hour five hours, 10 hour drive.
But he does videos on his YouTube channel of him tasting each one.
And he's like, oh, this tastes like a pea.
This has pea taste. This has a texture.
And he's just a it's a white he's a wild man.
But yeah, I just that we could no doubt on chili for the longest time.
But it is interesting how you can create your own varieties.
And I was going to look at creating my own variety.
But it's so much time.
It's about eight years.
It's funny that before my
before my wife decided that she wanted to breed snakes,
she wanted to breed peppers.
Oh, OK. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, we actually let me just circle right back.
We're coming up to time here, guys, get some questions into
get some questions you want to ask, Aaron, I've started a couple,
but get some more questions in and we have one more who said it.
And I want this to be if we stuff this one up,
we both have to take a big drink, OK? OK.
And this one is very vague because it's a very new it's a very new tweet.
But it is probably the funniest of all the tweets we've had so far.
If science doesn't agree with the Bible, science still needs to catch up.
William Lane Craig said almost exactly that.
Oh, he did.
But out of the out of the four, Eric, out of the four.
Yeah, that's too smart for Kent.
And therefore, probably beyond Eric as well.
I'm going to go with Ken.
I'm sorry, that was Eric Hovind.
Really? Time.
Yeah, it was a tweet, so he must have had time to think about it.
I'll get from somebody.
Yeah, here we go.
I was saying before we started that
I tend to do these alcoholic episodes
prior to spending time with my family.
Like, so I'm going to see my my my stepmom for Mother's Day,
my my mum for Mother's Day and my dad.
And I always end up rocking up drunk.
And it's like, you know, it's in the morning for us.
So it doesn't look good.
Are you OK? I'm like, yeah, no, no, it's just the show.
I don't normally drink it at 8 a.m.
So yeah, but it is five o'clock somewhere.
Yeah, it is exactly, exactly.
So a question, a question that I ask a lot of guests
and I really want to get your opinion of it is.
And this is actually part of the reason I reached out to you
is because you answered this in a second
when I asked a super chat on another show.
And so I'll just ask it again.
What is the most plausibly true religion
that you don't believe in?
You say I answered this question this question quickly once
about a time. Yeah, it was only like a week ago.
It was I can give you what you tell you what you said back then.
There's a lot of ways I can go with this, though.
When I was when I was a kid,
if I hadn't seen Star Wars first,
if I had read the Tao Te Ching first,
I would have identified as a Taoist.
That's what you said last time.
Yeah, OK, same answer. Yeah.
Interesting. What about what what is what is about Taoism
that you find attractive?
There's one line I could summarize the whole thing.
And it is that the nature acts without intent
and so cannot be said to be benevolent,
normal, evalent to anything.
So it's completely indifferent.
And what for whatever reason that appeals to me.
When Buddhists talk about life equals suffering,
I find that repugnant. It's reprehensible.
Why? Why does it why does it with the way
that they phrase it bother me so much?
But the way that the Tao, the Tao Te Ching described it, Lao Tsong.
I don't have an issue with that at all.
It's it's somehow the way he phrased it comes out beautiful.
It's big. It's essentially the same thought.
Interesting. If you had to if I had to.
And this is like I had Jimmy on Jimmy Snow on yesterday
and it was a hard for him to answer.
He joined this show, by the way.
Oh, did he?
Yeah, when did he say that?
Just just before I jumped on.
Oh, Dan, I wish I knew Dan.
Tom, I'm sorry now, too.
Oh, I love Jimmy.
But I was driving through his town.
And we'd never actually met physically in person.
And I told him that I'm driving through his town.
I'm going to stop at this gas station.
He goes, I know where that gas station is.
It's only 30 minutes from me. I'll see you there.
So good. How cool is that?
That is so good. Yeah.
Which one of you which one of you guys are taller?
He is taller than me.
OK, cool. Yeah.
Yeah, I remember him saying.
Or I'm not.
I thought, really, are you five four?
I was going to say, I was like, how big is that?
I swear, Matt, the hunt is shorter than you.
So it must be like, but everybody that meets me,
I mean, for like decades,
ever, you know, people that meet me, that have heard of me
before they meet me, they always say the same thing.
I thought you'd be taller.
Oh, OK. I don't know what it is that just people
always think four inches taller than I am.
Jimmy said something on a show that made like it felt so
relevant to me, one part of it.
He said, I'm taller and fatter than you think when you meet me
in person and I can relate to the fatter thing.
I have so many people who go like, oh, I didn't know I'm fat.
I'm definitely fat.
OK, well, let me let me make a suggestion to you.
On the last few months, I've been on Monjaro
and I've dropped 40 pounds.
Monjaro. Yeah.
What's that?
It's a weekly injection.
Oh, OK. Yeah.
But 40 pounds so far.
Oh, OK.
So that's for that's for type two.
No, well, it was originally devised for diabetes,
but it's it's not just for people who have diabetes.
I mean, it's it's being approved for weight loss and it's affected
because so I used to be able to.
I used to have an incredible appetite.
I would go into all you can eat places and take it as a personal challenge.
Yeah.
You know, but but now on on this medication,
I mean, I the other night I was someplace I had two slices of pizza
and didn't think I could finish the second slice.
Yeah. So I actually talked to my doctor about this is turned into just
this is an interesting glass, but I talked to my doctor about
actually this exactly because my barber suggested the same thing.
But in Australia, it's become earmarked for type two
diabetics because there's a worldwide shortage.
So we can't actually use it for weight loss in Australia yet.
So my doctor has put me on like I'm seeing a dietician
and I'm studying exercise regime and stuff as well.
But yeah, I've tried a lot of things.
I just love food and alcohol and cheese.
So yeah, well, I've also I'm at the age where I know how to eat good.
And that contributed to a lot of weight gain, too,
when I when I figure out what good food is like and how to get it
and how to cook it myself.
I mean, I make I make pretty good chili.
Once I figured out how to make chili, I make really good chili.
Hmm, yeah, it will light your ass on fire.
But I need to, you know, deep drinks is deep drinks is planning on a
on doing some documentaries in the future.
And one of them I'm hoping to come to the United States
and do some in person interviews.
If I can ever get to a location where you are, we need to have a chili off.
You're definitely will win. I'm not going to say I'm not going to say.
You'll be able to handle more spice than I can.
I've not even eaten the Carolina reaper and I've grown them.
I will say, though, I was cutting up Carolina Reaper
and I had gloves on and I grabbed my glove and I peeled it back
and a bit of the juice was on my finger and my skin flared up.
When I was in the shower for the next four days, it hurt.
I had to keep it out of the hot the hot water because it burns still.
I went to the shops and my whole my whole arm was inflamed
and I met some friends and they what happened?
I said, oh, I was cutting up chili and I touched it with a bit of the chili juice
and it's just flared up my skin.
This is what people eat.
I like I got to tell two short stories.
I want to go for it.
We went to Prince's Hot Chicken, the first hot chicken place in Nashville,
the or the originator of the Nashville Hot Chicken.
Before the building went down, we happened to be passing through Nashville
and we go to Prince's, the original location.
And I asked for as hot as you can make it.
And the woman laughed at me and said, this is hot enough.
And she didn't say white boy at the end of it, but I was kind of.
So I had this in my wife.
My wife was very impressed that I managed to choke down.
This the hottest chicken they can make in their Nashville Hot Chicken place.
I go into the bathroom.
We're on a road trip, right?
We're driving back to Texas from Nashville, Tennessee.
So we got a good day of driving ahead of us.
There's a sign in the door in the bathroom that says employees
must wash hands after they use the restroom.
There needed to be a second sign that says customers should wash
hands before using the restroom.
Yeah, because I tell you, that was an uncomfortable couple of hours.
I know I heard this story about a guy who he did the same thing.
He did the same thing, but he I think he went to he tried to fix it.
And so he like he touched him.
He went to the toilet and he said it was the most excruciating pain ever.
Just touching his, you know, old fella.
And then he went to the shower and he was drenching the water all over
and it went down to his to his arse and his balls.
So now he's all crutch and balls and arses on fire and he's getting milk
and he's throwing milk and trying it for hours.
It's an excruciating pain.
When you get into it, when you start eating Carolina Reaper, you said
you haven't yet, but there's an interesting thing with Carolina Reaper.
Really, they tell you the thing about it so hot that it burns twice, right?
Well, and of course, I've had that.
But when you get into Carolina Reaper, there's another way it comes out
in your urine. Oh, yeah.
It makes you think you need to maybe go down to that clinic and get tested.
You know that?
So, yeah. So, yeah, and then there's this place
that's just a couple of miles from where I live, where they make
the hottest wings that I've been able to find in this country.
And I think it was a story, but go.
It's so hot that it was coming out through my through my pores, my sweat glands.
So the back of my neck and the fold of my arms.
I'm on a hot day and I'm eating these wings.
And the wings were called, there can be only one.
And I was having four.
There is. Is this the one where you like, you know, you you drove away,
like humbled in your motorcycle and you had to pull over and be like, oh, God.
Yeah.
So I have a I so I I I end up hiccuping a lot,
even if I have like a tired bird's eye, it's not super hot for me,
but I end up hiccuping heaps and I can't speak hiccuping.
And it's so funny that we used to live with the same person
where Australia Zoo, we used to live with them and they thought pepper was spicy.
They had a very UK, they're born in the UK.
They had a very UK taste, taste buds sense.
Pepper was too spicy for them.
You know, they've never had anything that you will fuck with you, though.
I got my ass handed to me when I went to London a year ago
and we went to the Red Dog Saloon and they gave us some wings
that were coated with and I had to taste it to understand what they were
how they were talking, but they wouldn't tell me how they made it.
But I recognized it because I have some of this at home.
It's it's called the end.
It's a laboratory extract pure capsaicin.
It's nine million Scoville.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And so they just caked this all over the chicken wings.
And they gave me six wings.
My wife and I had one wing each and we're like, this is no nine.
That's laboratory extract pure capsaicin.
That's cheating.
Yeah. And what's and what's in what's super interesting is
so I forgot what my my channel thought.
Oh, yeah. So the that kind of touches on what I was talking about is
that, you know, I'd be, you know, she won't even this person we live with
wouldn't even have any pepper or nothing.
And I would eat chilies in front of her like tasting
and all this once the scrub come in, I'll taste it.
And then I'll be coughing and sneezing and pacing around the kitchen
like with my mouth and fight.
I'm like, oh, it's delicious.
It's so good.
It's so delicious.
And she's like, it doesn't look like you're having a good time.
Like, no, it's really good.
When I got into spicy food, I was in Abilene, Texas,
which is a very small town and you wouldn't expect to find a place
like this in Abilene.
I mean, in most places where they supposedly make spicy food,
they never bring it.
It's just that random dice roll when they bring it, they fucking bring it.
So this was this little mom and pop tie shop.
And I should have known the people that walked me in there were covered in
tattoos, one of them had a pink mohawk and the other one had a green mohawk.
And they were a married couple.
And we all pulled up on motorcycles.
So they're both on Harleys and I'm on a victory.
So I should have known that they knew what the fuck, right?
But anyway, I ordered for the Thai red chili.
Thai red curry is hot as you can get it.
Just just just cake it on, make it as hot as you can.
And I remember eating all the way through this sniffling,
like just I'm feeling like I'm like I'm like I'm terribly sick.
I'm like, you're good, man.
And then like, yeah, yeah.
And then like two hours later,
I'm sitting in the toilet crying like a little girl.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Thinking that was really good.
So the the guy, do you know the story behind smoking
Ed Curry and and his and the Carolina Reaper?
Do you know that? No.
So the guy who created the Carolina Reaper,
he what happened was before he was ever into Chili's,
he was a really bad heroin addict.
And he ended up going to a Malaysian restaurant
and he said, make it as spicy as you can.
They said, no, no, no, no, no.
And they refused to and he demanded make it super spicy.
And he had it again and he was four years sober.
And he said it was like having smack for the first time again.
He said everything like I got that wave of euphoria.
He got that like wave of like the look at that boy or girl.
Look, adorable boy.
This is just for folk or and had a wave of euphoria.
And he said that he hadn't had that since he had smack.
So he went and started breeding the hottest chilies
and his bread, Carolina Reaper, the world's hottest chili.
And now there's pepper X.
And every time someone releases another chili,
he then releases the next hottest one that he's had in the bank
that he hasn't released yet.
And he just keeps breeding the hotter and hotter and hotter.
I used to have a channel that one of the super chat
I just said, fun fact, they used to have a business
called The Bearded Chili Bush and I did.
And let me just quickly share something.
River City Films is actually the person who designed my logo.
So this is the Instagram page.
And this is when I was making chilies and he designed the logo.
And these are now there's some of the Marupi Marila.
These are that's my you can see how big my backyard was.
That's it.
And I had 57 chili species, species in the back.
Yeah, someone at work designed this.
This is some of my hot sauce.
Yeah, I was I was I was going nuts for it.
But anyway, Aaron, I'll ask one last question
because we are at the time and the question I want to ask is
and it's a question that was asked to Bill Nye, so and Ken Ham.
What, if anything, would change your mind?
If anything, God could.
Yeah, I mean, what there's no way any more.
There's no there's no way any more to show
that the Bible is true.
We know that it's not.
That's done.
There's over and done.
I mean, there was no Adam and Eve.
We know that the global flood of Noah's Ark, the Tower of Babel,
all that shit.
And that's thoroughly disproved.
That's not happening anymore now.
So is there a God if it's not the Bible?
God, then there's still a possibility.
Well, it really isn't literally even a possibility.
But perhaps if there was a possibility, one could present one.
I often say that you can't say that something is possible
if you can unless you can show a precedent or parallel
or verified phenomenon indicating that such possibility exists.
Nobody's shown that.
But God could.
Now, logically, if God has infinite magic powers
and and and he knows all he has all the infinite ability
to remain hidden, then it would be impossible to show
that he's not that he did that he's not there, right?
But one of the first stipulations is, is if there is a God,
the Bible is still wrong.
There's no way to save the Bible.
You can God could defend himself,
but God could not defend the Bible.
Yeah, there's it's like it's like believing in a round circle
or a married bachelor.
There are too many inconsistencies or contradictions.
Yeah, pretty much. Yeah.
Well, that's actually, you know, you say when people say
what kind of evidence would convince you, I often say that
I'll take anything that qualifies as evidence.
So any objectively verifiable body of facts
that we can show that we can both show the deal.
This is these are actually true that are positively indicative
of and or exclusively concordant with one available position
or hypothesis against any other.
That's what I'll accept.
But what believers mean by evidence is let me pray for you.
So I did this like a couple of weeks ago.
She said, well, I will give you evidence of the supernatural.
What is that evidence?
Well, let me let me pray for you.
Eventually, she could not give me what I'm supposed to expect
or how this is supposed to work.
She just she's going to pray for me.
And within one week, I will know that God is real.
How am I going to know that?
No idea. Did you did you do do you believe in God now?
So tomorrow will be two weeks from then.
And new is actually it's it's similar.
I actually same thing.
I had someone tell me that very shortly when I argue with someone discord,
they invited me into the Christian discord.
I went in and I said, hey, I'm an atheist and I've got any questions.
Some lady came in. She's very rude.
I got the whole conversation on the channel and she told me that she's going to pray for me.
And very soon, I would find out that there was a God.
And then I put a reminder in my phone for one year from that day.
And then I was like, oh, the reminder come up.
I better let her know if her prayers have come true and I was blocked.
So I couldn't couldn't message her or talk to her or anything.
It's a funny thing when you have to defend the make believe
when when that matters more than whatever the truth is
so that you can't ever admit, well, hey, I was wrong.
I hope I'm I hope I never have a belief
that matters more than the truth, something that that if somebody were to show
that this is wrong, that I would be afraid of admitting that
or that I would convince myself to keep believing that
because that to me, that that's the one thing that makes me
more than anything else different from religious believers.
You show me that I'm wrong.
I will admit that I'm wrong.
I'll stop believing that it's happened.
It's happened a few times.
And then I you don't even have to prove that it's wrong.
When I realize that I don't have sufficient reason to believe it in the first place,
I've already stopped believing it.
Hmm.
Yeah, even if I really liked it.
Well, that I put the quote of what you said at the start there,
like the truth doesn't have to be the truth can piss you off,
but at least it's better than believing a lie, which is what you I read that in your
a highlighted in your book last night, I found it highlighted last night
from when I read your book and it's totally true.
Guys, go check out the book once again, plug the book.
This is a great book.
And you have another book that's also out there
so you can click on our and see.
Over the next over that.
Yeah, that's we are all apes.
But there's there's another one I'm working on right now
that I'm supposed to have done by the end of the month
or by the end of the year.
And that's going to be a challenge to get it done in that amount of time,
because I mean, fucking busy.
But yeah, I mean, I'm taking moments like this to do shows like this.
And these are the moments when I get to breathe.
Well, I'm on camera because these are the only times
when I'm not like doing five other screens.
Yeah. And trying to do all the research and composition I can.
But I'm doing something like we're calling it answering Genesis.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, I'm already on board.
Do you know what I'll pay for that?
That I hope that my my, you know, I try to create an environment
first and foremost, first and foremost, that's relaxing
and enjoyable for the guests that come on.
And I hope that I've been able to do that with you.
And that's part of the reason why I'm glad you chose a beer.
So I'm hoping that you found this interview enjoyable.
I did. I'm also impressed with some of the people that listen to this.
I'm seeing familiar names in the chat, for example.
And you've got a couple of high, you know, got a couple of high dollar
names in your in your chat comments.
Yeah, I know.
I I'm so blessed with how this show is.
Oh, why don't I use the word blessed?
Oh, that feels feels a little gross, but I'm sorry.
It kind of works for me.
I mean, I often say that because I know how much it pisses off the believers
when I say that that I feel as if my life has been blessed.
Yeah. Thank God. I'm an atheist.
Yeah, for anyone who actually said that to me.
I was talking to an old friend from high school way back.
They will have known her forever.
And I said, well, I'm doing this weird, weird ass tour.
I'm doing I'm doing a tour of Australia and I'm doing a tour of Europe
immediately following that.
So I'm just like hopping through the United States and continuing on to Europe.
We're doing we're doing like a five state, five cities in Pacifica.
And then we're going to do 15 countries in Europe.
And I'm like, it's just a crazy schedule.
And she goes, well, this atheism thing is really working out for you.
See, God really does have a plan.
Yeah.
Well, thank you for coming on.
And thank you to my major and amazing Patreon supporters and for all the new
members in the chat.
I think a lot of you guys were were gifted by someone in the last chat.
But thank you so much for being here and interacting.
These are all your amazing, amazing members that have appeared today.
I really appreciate it.
And, you know, any bit of support, even just showing up, liking,
favoriting, if you can't support financially support doing all that stuff,
really, I really appreciate it because I'm with deep drinks is is just
in its in its infant form.
It's just in its form.
We're at like 70 episodes or something, but we'll keep going.
And it's going to be awesome.
Thank you, everyone, for coming out and thank you, Aaron, so much for coming on.
It's been it's a real honor to meet you.
You know, it's to it really is.
And there's so much more we, you know, if I could lock you in a room
and just talk to you for 12 hours, I'd do that.
So thank you so much for taking the time.
I really appreciate it.
My pleasure.
OK, see you later, guys.
Bye.
