Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcast.
My name is Dave, and today we have a really exciting episode.
I've been looking forward to this episode for the longest time.
Linda and I have been in talks for, I don't know, like six months, maybe even longer,
but it's been a long time coming, and I'm so excited to have this chat.
My guest today is the author of Pure, which is inside the evangelical movement that's
shamed a generation of young women and how I broke free.
She's done a TED Talk, and she's also the founder of Breaking Free Together, which is
a not-for-profit organization that helps people to release shame and claim their whole selves,
as well as a life coach or a coach that helps people get through some of the trappings of
religious trauma and purity culture.
So with that said, I'd like to introduce my wonderful guest, Linda Kay Klein.
Thank you for coming on.
Thank you for having me.
I am so excited to chat to you.
I actually only saw your TED Talk, I think, when I first initially reached out, and then
I've gone through your Audible book, your Audible version of the book, which is narrated
by you fantastically, and I had to purchase a physical copy so I can stick all my little
notes in the important version, because it's just, it's really good.
It's a really good book.
So my first question is, what are we drinking today?
We're drinking hot chocolate.
Who doesn't love hot chocolate?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Were you able to get yourself some hot chocolate?
No, I got some hot chocolate.
You should see my booze cupboard or my cupboard of random, it's not all alcoholic, but the
random drinks that I have, I have worm salts, which is like, one of the guests was like,
we're getting worm salts, which is worm larvae mixed with salt and chili, and I was a vegetarian
at the time.
I'm like, oh man, I'm top eating worms, and yeah, it's wild, I've had some wild stuff.
That's the next level.
I was like, listen, it's morning for you, it's nighttime for me, what's a drink that
we can both, that will allow us to both feel really comfy and cozy.
So it's cold here, yeah.
This one time I got up at one in the morning and drank shots of vodka with Pepe Giulia
on Zimmer from Uganda, and we're just, and getting up, I tell you what, getting up at
one in the morning, or maybe it was like what, two in the morning, but like having to wake
up and then like half an hour later be doing shots of vodka was like, that was hard.
I was like, oh, but yeah, it's all for the cause.
So your book took 12 years of interviews, right?
You did 12 years of interviews before you started even writing it.
And I'm curious, you must have had so much to go through, and you probably left a lot
on the cutting room floor.
Is there anything in hindsight that you look and you're like, man, I wish I left that one
part in that one section, or I wish that there's a story here that I got to share,
but it just couldn't fit because of how you structured things.
Is there anything like that in the in the process of cutting the book together?
Yeah, it's a great question.
There are several things.
But I think the thing that I feel the most strongly about is so I was very conservative
about what I left in, by which I mean to say, I feel like the book was already pushing a lot
of people's expectations of what what purity culture was and what kind of harm it could do
when it came out.
We weren't talking about purity culture much at all, let alone it causing PTSD, right?
And so I really wanted to make sure that the only things I was leaving in were things
that I had seen over and over and over and over again among my interviewees.
So if a trend had only come up a handful of times, I was like, OK, we're leaving it out,
right? Because I don't know if it's if it's really a significant trend, significant enough
to to make a real claim about.
I wanted everything to be like solid, do you know what I mean?
Yeah. And so one thing that I left out because I had only heard it a handful of times,
but that was really curious and interesting.
I have since heard so many more times and it has actually become, I think,
the crux and the kind of cornerstone of what I see healing as.
So here's the story.
Over and over again, when I was tagging my interviews, I kept seeing the phrase,
I don't feel like a person or I didn't feel like a person or I didn't feel like a person
until right, I kept seeing that phrase come up.
And so I started tagging when it was coming up.
And then in the tagging process, I saw that in a lot of those same people's
stories, there was another time when they said I started to feel like a person for
the first time when right, or, you know, something along those lines of like for
the first time, I felt like a person, right?
And so I was going through and being like, what is going on that people feel like
they're not people and then that they regain a sense of personhood, right?
And what I was finding in the interviews, this is all pre book, right?
Was that there was this theme where when people felt like they had handed over
their choices to other people, they felt removed from humanity.
So it could be something as little as somebody who didn't feel like they had
the right to make any choices.
You know, if you and I are talking and you're telling a story and I have to go
to the bathroom, I'm not allowed to get up and go to the bathroom.
I have to let you finish your story and then wait until there's not an awkward
pause for me to actually be like, OK, I'm just going to step away.
And, you know, if somebody asked me to go hang out, I have to say yes,
because they want to, even if I'm exhausted, right?
So there are little ways like that that made people feel like everyone else
got to have their wants.
Everyone else got to have their desires.
Everyone else got to have their idiosyncrasies.
Everyone else got to have their choices, including their inappropriate,
you know, behavior, right?
But not me. I have to do what's right for everyone else.
For some people, it was bigger things like, for example, you know, one woman
talked about how she wanted to be a pastor, but she was told that women
can't preach women, can't be pastors.
And so she said, OK, I can't do this.
This is not for me.
You know, other people get to choose the the ministry.
Other people get to choose their vocations, their careers, but not me.
I'm not a person, right?
And it's when they start to actually make choices for themselves as little as
sorry, I'm just going to stop you for a minute.
I'm going to run to the bathroom, right?
And as big as I'm going to divinity school, right, that people started
to feel a sense of personhood.
And I think that's really important because I think that purity culture
certainly is about sex and it is about gender.
But it is so much more about
purity culture and the larger culture that engenders purity culture, right?
Is so much more about removing you as a human being from your selfhood
and negating your selfhood, right?
And sort of pausing your development, really, right, your individual development
at a stage where you are still looking to others for how to make your decisions,
right? You know, so, for example,
you know, we learn that you are given a particular community.
This is your community.
These are your people.
They're the right ones. They're the good ones.
They have all the answers.
If they approve of you, you're in your good.
You have all the answers.
If they don't, you're out, right?
So your first thing you have to do is figure out who your community is,
make all the right choices according to them, right?
And then become the person who makes all those choices.
Have the feelings of the person who would make those choices.
Have the thoughts of the person who would make those choices.
Have the bodily experiences of someone who would make those choices, right?
So essentially you are shaping yourself.
You're manipulating your self development, you know, to fit other people's
expectations, right?
So the reason this feels so important to me is because I have increasingly found
that the healing that we can have post-purity culture
has to do with kind of taking these three questions
and putting them in the right order.
So starting with who am I?
What do I think? What do I feel?
What is my body experiencing?
You know, what are my wants?
What are the, you know, aspects of me that are complex,
but exist, right, et cetera?
And then where am I going?
Right. You know, what choices do I want to make, et cetera?
And then who will go with me?
A question that we can't answer, right?
A question only other people can answer.
So I think that in many ways, the church taught us to ask those same three
questions in the opposite order, which is what divorces us from our sense
of even our humanity.
So it's actually not a small thing, right?
Sometimes I think people feel like, feel like, oh, purity culture,
you know, blah, blah, blah, y'all are fine, right?
No, you know, in many cases, we become so separated from our humanity,
right, from our own thoughts, our own feelings, et cetera,
that we don't even feel like we're people.
And that's a very fundamental thing to say.
Yeah. Well, that's that's such a profound answer.
I am something that stood out to me when I when I was reading the last
I think it's the second last chapter of your book, Going Home.
So the second last chapter or it's it's in there, I think.
I think I think the last but yeah, you're not the last.
So I had the audible version.
It was it's all kind of blurry.
But yeah, the so shortly after you were having you,
you talk about this conversation you had with your mother about.
I'm so sorry.
My dog is really wants to come in here.
That's OK. That's OK.
So you're having a conversation with your mother
and she was worried that you might have been a tool of the devil
because of questioning these these things.
And then you kind of asked her some deep questions around
like when do you feel the most the most free or like the most?
What was the exact phrase you used?
It was something to do around I don't know, alive or free or something.
Yeah, something like something.
Yeah, something like that.
While you're looking, while you're looking, can I let my dog in?
Yeah, sure. He'll just be he'll just be he'll be quiet.
He'll be so much better. Yeah. Yeah.
All right, we're back.
Awesome. What type of dog do you have?
We don't know. He's a mix of adorability.
Yeah, that's awesome.
We have we have a rescue beagle and and as ever.
Yeah. So I kind of find the exact back part.
But you asked essentially like what when do you feel like the most alive,
the most free? And she said, I don't answer questions like that.
And then she eventually said with God and it made me kind of question
the idea of like, is that the moment when not just your mother,
but like many people around the world, they feel that they can just let go
of these expectations about who they are as female, who they are as
their position in society.
They can let go of all of that and they can have that moment
that of quietness where they can let all those walls down.
And maybe that's like really symbolic for how someone engages with their faith.
Do you have any thoughts on that?
Yeah, I agree. I agree.
And it's interesting because I I know a lot of secular
strategies for doing the exact same thing, you know, as a coach,
as a coach, I work with people who are religious and people who are not religious.
And I do sort of regardless, but sometimes I'll frame it a little bit
differently, depending on who it is, you know, practices of connecting to yourself
and connecting to that core voice within you and that core sense of yourself.
And I feel like that is a lot of what my mom does when she goes
to the side of the bed and sits down in this little corner
between the bed and the window, you know, just this like a little sliver
of space where she can be totally alone.
There's nowhere in our house that is totally my mom's, right?
You know, it's it's all shared space.
My dad has an entire office, right?
But my mom has nothing that is hers, right?
Which I also think is part of this personhood, you know, kind of frame.
But but she finds this little sliver of space that is unused, right,
where she can sit down on the floor and tuck up her knees because it's not
big enough for her to stretch them out and just be for a little while.
And for her, that's, you know, being with God and it's,
you know, accepting, accepting what's going on in the moment
and trusting, trusting that that God will will solve it
or that God is telling her everything is OK already, right?
But so often, you know, very similar practices,
you know, in meditation and etc., right?
These sorts of like dropping away, right?
All the expectations of the world, like you said, and just saying, hey,
it's it's just me.
It's just me and me or just me and God or just me and, you know,
however you understand this, this connection
that is larger than you, even if it is just you, right?
Like me and my own wisdom, right?
Me and my true self, right?
You know, and I think that is it is really powerful, you know?
Something I have noticed online is the difference between only only slightly,
by the way, but that I've noticed this, but the difference
between how women are treated and how men are treated, especially in online spaces.
And I've said this a couple of times, but for the first like 85 episodes
of Deep Drinks, I pretty much wore the exact same thing.
Initially, I wore the same thing because I thought it looked good initially.
And then I was like, I'm just going to keep it in my cupboard.
And then I was like, I wonder how long I can go wearing this exact same thing
without before anyone comments. No one ever did like 85 episodes.
It was just like people wondered, like I've had some people say they wondered,
but they're like, yeah, he just wears the same thing.
But but like so many of my female content creator friends are like,
no, I can't wear the same thing twice.
Like I'll get like the whole community.
Like, what are you doing? Like you wore that last week.
And I just find it so so interesting.
The difference between how men and women are treated.
And so your book really goes into.
Wait, can I comment on that?
Yeah, yeah, sure. Yeah.
All right. So you want to hear how I chose what to wear?
I was going, I was going to wear my pink shirt
because I feel the best in my pink shirt.
And then I was like, oh, man, I've worn the pink shirt and a lot of interviews.
You know, how many people are going to see that I wore it in those interviews
as well as this one? How many times can you get away with wearing the pink shirt?
And then I was like, oh, I'm going to be.
And then I was like, you know what?
And I'm going to be in the room with kind of rose colored walls.
And then that's already kind of a feminine color.
And are people really going to respect me if I'm in a feminine colored room
and I'm wearing a shirt?
Probably not. This is deep drinks.
This sounds like philosophical deep stuff.
We're going to have to put on a different shirt.
So then I was like, all right, I'm going to wear the I'm going to wear this brick colored,
you know, brick, you know, is not my favorite color.
But it like connotes a groundedness, right?
And a like
traditionalism that I was like, yes, I shall call forth this for the interview.
So anyway, I just, yeah, I couldn't help but respond to that.
But yeah, 100 percent, 100 percent, the the treatment is very different.
You have to take in.
Yeah, go ahead.
Oh, I was I was I got up and I was like, which shirts are clean?
I looked at and I was like, oh, yeah, I was like, I was like,
I like that kind of fits like it's, you know, friendly.
And I was like, and I was like, oh, you know, this would good.
And I just I just chucked it on like it was just like, what's clean?
Right, right, right, right.
But my whole thought process was like not only on, you know,
like over representation of a of a shirt, but also what as a woman
will I be respected in and what won't I be?
Right. You know, so, yeah, it's it's a whole it's a whole complex.
That's so amazing.
You know, your book, your book covers essentially the female
perspective of of purity culture, which is huge.
But did you get any do you have conversations with any men
that had experienced or have you have you got any stories from
how purity culture has affected men in any ways?
Well, I've got I've got a ton I can tell you about.
But obviously, your book focuses mainly on how it affects women.
Yeah, sure. I'll answer the question.
And I'd love to hear some stories because
I'm you know, first thing I'll say is that
it is so much harder, I think, for men to find stories,
which is one of the reasons that I think would be really great for you to share.
You know, you have you have an extra, you know,
listen, purity culture has been real rough on women.
There's no doubt about it.
But one thing that we are allowed as women is our emotions and our pain.
And we are also allowed to communicate and to talk, right?
And that's that's built into our gender expectations.
And those are assets in our recovery process, right?
We we might not know how to feel our real emotions
because we've been manipulating our emotions to fit into a particular set
of expectations for a long time.
But we do feel and we might not be able to feel our full range of emotions,
right, such as anger, etc.
There's a lot of taboos, but we are allowed to have emotional
expressions of pain and we are allowed to talk about things, right?
And so I think you find the stories of women to be much more prevalent, right?
Whereas men, you know, because purity culture ultimately teaches
gender expectations and the sexual expectations fit beneath the gender expectations, right?
You know, so men are taught you have to be these hyper stereotypical masculine men
and one of the aspects of that is no feelings and no communication, right?
You know, if you have a problem, you don't talk about it.
You deal with it yourself.
You be a strong man who can handle it without having a conversation, right?
And so I think that to get past that barrier without those tools, you know,
or to have to to find those tools and then learn how to use them, etc.
It's just it's just a longer road, I think.
So, yeah, I have interviewed a bunch of men and I've also, you know,
worked with a bunch of men in coaching, etc.
And I find that I find that it's a it's a similar but also quite different experience,
you know, girls and boys.
And I'm obviously I'm using like binary language right now,
which would be the language of the church, right?
Girls and boys are separated for these teachings, as you know.
And particularly around gender and sexuality teachings.
And the teachings are different or they're the same.
But they're, you know, both girls and boys learn that women are
that girls and women are responsible for making sure that men don't have sexual thoughts.
And both girls and boys learn that men are monsters
who can't control their sexual thoughts and choices and actions.
And therefore, men must.
So we're learning the same messages about ourselves and the other one.
But they're like very different messages, right?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
So, yeah, so I have I have a lot of I have a lot of different stories
that I decided not to represent in the book, because it just felt like a whole other world.
Oh, it is wrap my head fully around.
But yeah, so tell me some of your stories and I'd love to.
Oh, well, my I remember he's now my boss.
But I remember when I was a pastor, I had I ran a the on a small group night.
We ran, we had a bunch of, you know, young teens come in, 13, kind of onwards.
And we talked about we separated the men and the boys and the girls.
And and we talked about like purity, culture, sex and all that stuff.
I don't know fully what what the girls were taught, but we were taught
like when what I taught the guys was straight away, I was just like,
who watches porn, who masturbates like these like teens.
And and it was very much the the messaging that I was giving off
and the messaging that I believed at the time was that you've got to hold back your urges.
You're essentially like you're a predator, essentially, like you don't know if you're a predator.
And if you keep letting these things grow, they'll grow out of control.
And we essentially built these.
Now, I didn't do this with the teens, but personally, between me and some
zealous kind of Christians, we created these like anti masturbation clubs
between us where we would we would message each other
whenever we felt the urge to masturbate and then the other person would pray.
Hey, you know, and so it was this weird thing of like, you'd get no,
you know, we're 20, 21, you know, young.
Your hormones are going crazy.
And we're with, you know, celibate and we're not masturbating, not looking at porn.
And then by the end of the week, you're like, at the start of the week,
it's all fine and there's no text messages coming through at the end of the week.
It's like, I think everyone's phones are going off.
Everyone's praying all the time because you've just got the super horny.
Then they go to church and, you know, Mary wears a dress
that's like this, showing this much of kneecap and the guy's like,
how can I control it?
So it perpetuates this like, oh, interesting.
It perpetuates the thing where, you know, it's like you caused me to stumble.
I heard I had female leaders who said that they were told by people
you've made me stumble.
Like you were, you know, and I was like, what?
That was weird for me.
Like you shouldn't be coming up to girls and saying you made me stumble
when you wore that. That's not OK.
But yeah, it was very much, very much taught that
that you were essentially a predator and we were watching all these like,
you know, every young man's battle and stuff.
And they interviewed like Ted Bundy, who was like, I was a serial killer
and it all started with porn and you're like, OK, like.
Oh, I had not heard about the interview with Ted Bundy.
Yeah, it's crazy.
He's like, wow, every single person not just.
Sexually depraved person, but a serial killer.
Yeah. And they interviewed like this guy is like, you know,
I started by looking at my dad's dirty magazines and now I'm a prostitute.
And you're like, what?
He's like, now I sell my body to men and you're like, but how did it work?
And it was this or this other person discovered that they had
quite and quite turned gay from looking at too much porn.
And it was just like, it was this bizarre,
like you've got this demon thing inside you that you're trapped
and you need to like be careful about.
And that was the perspective from the male
and the male perspective that we were taught.
But but some personal experiences I've had, like you mentioned people
in your book having panic attacks and or vomiting and from panic attacks
and things like that.
I had that exact experience.
I totally forgot about it until I read your book where the first time
and this is before I was super involved in church,
but this kind of just was against my own standards.
But but like the first time my high school girlfriend,
I decided to try like, I guess, hand and mouth stuff.
We we I all of a sudden just felt sick
and got up and ran outside and bombarded in the garden.
And then I was like, that was weird.
And then the next time that obviously didn't happen.
But that that night.
But the next time we try the same thing, I'm like, what's going on?
So every time we would get right to the point of having some sex time,
I would freak out and just and have to go bomb and it was like a classic.
And you know, even after we did engage in that kind of stuff,
I remember feeling this intense amount of guilt and or not guilt,
but like something had changed or something was broken or something.
And I talked to my, you know, secular friends about this now
and they're like, I never experienced that at all.
Like it was a great time.
Like everyone was like hooking up in high school when it was just fun.
Yeah. But it wasn't like this this doom and gloom around it.
Yeah. Mm hmm. Mm hmm.
Yeah, I mean.
Yeah, the two.
So two kind of things, the sort of monstrousness and and then this
and then this shame that kind of is physicalized.
Yeah, I was just holding the both.
Yeah. So the monstrousness, the fear that that you are a monster, right?
And that therefore you have to regulate it because if you let anything out,
then the Ted Bundy will come out of you or what have you is one of the biggest
things I hear among men.
And just to give you a little sense of, you know, you were talking about,
you know, the what was happening with the accountability circles around masturbation.
And then you know how that ties to the stumbling block stuff
with what women were wearing.
Well, let me tie let me tie this now to this
monstrousness to what was happening among women and girls.
So many of my clients right now are struggling with a fear of men
and a feeling that men are inherently monsters
and that they have something in them that is
that is so dangerous that, you know, some of my clients struggle with working with men.
Some of them struggle with like, you know, meeting the fathers of friends, right?
There's so much of this this teaching that that men have this uncontrollable
sort of like horrific, you know, beast inside of them
that's going to destroy everything in their wake that not only, you know,
has affected many men by making them, you know, believe that about themselves,
which is this awful thing to believe about yourself, right?
But it's also something that that many women believe, right?
That creates, as you can imagine, huge issues, not just in their romantic relationships,
but in all kinds of ways of functioning in the world.
Mm. Yeah.
And then go ahead.
Go, go. What are we saying?
I was going to say, and then the throwing up one.
Yeah, I mean, you're just so not the only one.
And I think you know this, but the the kind of the kind of like physical
reaction to sexuality is so common, you know, and panic attacks, throwing up,
you know, breaking down the tears, eczema, you know, coming out.
You know, all kinds of things, right?
It's it's just such a such a common manifestation of that shame.
I I I really want to ask you about, you know, about your journey,
but I want to preface it with another story if that's OK,
because it ties directly into your story.
This isn't David's hour of like, well, it could be, but we're not going to do that.
But this is the first time my wife and I started
my now wife and I started hooking up was when we're both kind of
backsliding from Christianity, I guess you could say.
And then we had a break and then when we're both and, you know, we we broke up
and then we kind of found each other again, as we were we were driving
more into our faith and now we're married.
But at the time I was working at Lula's, I was working a night shift.
And mind you, we're both, you know, both in these these hotspots.
And I was putting away stuff and we were texting
and we kind of sexting a little bit on, you know, over the phone.
And it got to about, you know, Amy had stayed up all night.
We just was texting like all night as I'm like working out, put my phone text.
And at three in the morning, I decided I'm going home sick
and I'm going to go pick up Amy and we're going to like hook up like.
And we didn't have sex or anything like that.
But we were all the stuff we were messaging.
It was we were definitely not going to have sex,
but we might have done other stuff, you know what I mean?
So I get home, I drive home.
I've just moved in with a new Christian lady who's extremely religious
and like extremely like like told me to throw out my, you know,
video games that had any witchcraft in them and things like that.
Like very, very, very Kenneth Copeland kind of esk top Christianity.
And I went in, had a shower, like three in the morning.
I get out and it's flooded.
I can't get out of our house the way that we're on would always flood
and I couldn't get out.
But I was so desperate to go pick up Amy that I drove up the street.
And in Australia, there are these like footpaths that go in between streets
sometimes and I drove up there.
My car started getting bogged.
It's pouring rain.
I'm flicking dirt like it's hitting all like my car.
I'm in this little day with Carlos.
It's a tiny little car like a yeah, yeah.
And I'm flicking all this dirt up and it's hitting all the fence.
And I'm nearly getting bogged and I finally get through
of maybe these big trenches in this like footpath like grassy area.
And I go pick her up and I drive back to my house and we we sneak in the door.
She's my religious ladies in the front room.
We sneak in and we walk back to the room and we lie down
and we start hooking up a little bit.
And all of a sudden I had this thought, what if I accidentally touched myself?
And then there was like pre-come, essentially, that that could make
and then I touched Amy and then now she's pregnant and now like what do we do?
And and then I kind of panicked like, wait, do I and then we both lay there.
So we just started hooking up like if nothing had really happened,
we're lying there freaking out that Amy had spontaneously become pregnant
because I touched myself and it was like something like that happened, right?
So we're lying there in fear, both panic and then we leave,
get it back in the car and drive her home.
And that was the end of that adventure.
But we were terrified that we had magic to pregnancy.
And that falls right into something that you experienced.
I'd love if you could kick your story off a little bit with that.
With my anecdote. Yeah.
Yeah, I have to tell you, I think that when I first started doing interviews,
I think what I was really hoping was that I was going to find somebody else
who was taking pregnancy tests, though they weren't having sex.
I was like, anybody, anybody else doing this?
And it actually took me a while to to find someone.
And when I first did, I was like, oh, I'm not the only one, right?
But it turns out there are a ton of us.
Now I know that there are a ton of people.
Yeah. So I finally got to this point where I said I'm ready to have.
I'm ready, like theoretically, not in this moment,
but I'm theoretically ready to have sex before marriage.
And it was after I had had this moment where
I doubted the literal son of God,
and this of Jesus for the first time in my life, like a real genuine doubt.
And I was like, well, I'm out, right?
Like there's there's no saving me now, right?
That's the one thing that you can never doubt, right?
And I started to I started to, I think at that point,
feel a little bit more freedom to ask which of the rules I still wanted to hold on to
and which of the beliefs I actually held and etc. etc.
And I remember announcing to my boyfriend that I was open to having sex before marriage
up until that point had had no no challenges around sexuality.
I was very comfortable with holding the line, right?
And with the like, you know, the fear of something happening,
you know, keeping things very low key, right?
But the minute that I in my mind decided that it was theoretically possible
for us to have sex outside of marriage, it all just abruptly changed, right?
It was I might have been theoretically ready for that, but emotionally, right?
And in my body, most definitely not, right?
So that's when I remember, you know, we never we never actually had sex,
but I certainly all kinds of fears would be running through my mind, right?
You know, like very similar sort of like, what if the precom touched this thing?
And like, you know, keep in mind that we grew up in a world where where we learned,
we learned very messy sex ed, like I remember, I remember someone saying
when I was growing up, you could get pregnant if you were both in the same hot tub
and there was sperm floating in the hot tub, right?
And then it could like escape, you know, the pain and just yeah, yeah.
But like overall, there was also just this like energy of if you do something wrong,
some punishment will come.
So of course, pregnancy would come, right?
You know, like, of course, this very public expression of I have sinned would be what would come.
Yeah. And I remember, you know, I would have these panic attacks and then we would,
we would have to stop making out and my eczema, I'm the one with the eczema, right?
My eczema would be coming out and I'd be scratching myself until I bled and I was just a wreck.
And then it would all end and we would do the drive home, as you said, right?
You know, it wasn't a drive home for us.
But but you know, that sort of like nothing happened.
And so now we have to drive home still in shame, right?
And that's when I would just be like filled with anxiety.
Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute.
Nothing happened.
But what if something happened, right?
Nothing happened.
Yeah, exactly.
And you know, I couldn't get that that anxiety to go away until I took pregnancy test.
And it got to the point where I was just like, I was like buying pregnancy tests in bulk,
because I was like, I know I'm going to have to take another pregnancy test at some point.
Like I'm going to be I'm going to be terrified about this again later this week, right?
So let me just let me just like buy a few tests at once, right?
Yeah. And I think that that's the thing that when I would tell my secular peers.
And at this point in my life, I'd left evangelicalism.
You know, I my boyfriend was secular.
My friends were secular.
I was at a secular school.
And I remember when I was telling people about that in particular, right?
You know, that's the thing that made them all look at me like,
you know, now what now is happening?
No, so you're doing what?
What, right?
And I remember, I remember saying to them, I like, I'm really scared.
Like, I think something's really wrong with me.
And they were like, yeah, yes, something is very wrong with you, right?
And I just had absolutely no idea what it was.
This was this was a long time ago, you know, long before the word purity culture existed.
And I just felt utterly and absolutely broken with no, no sort of sign of hope anywhere, right?
Did. So how, how did you like, if you could go back and give yourself advice back then?
Knowing what you know now, what would you, what would you say to yourself?
In that particular phase of my life?
Mm hmm.
When you're kind of like having these panic attacks and
Yeah.
And the eczema.
Yeah.
That's a good question.
Let me think about that.
Man, I think I would just say you're, oh, my headphone came out.
I think I would just say, you know, you're okay.
Like, you know, you're, you're not a horrible person.
You're not broken.
You're not fundamentally flawed in a way that's going to make it impossible for you
to ever have a meaningful relationship.
You're not, you know, you're okay, right?
No.
I think I had a lot of fear.
I would say that the scariest phase for me was the phase that we're talking about right now.
The scariest phase for me was not being in evangelicalism.
When I was in evangelicalism, I think I perceived it as something that I had joined
and could leave if I wanted to.
And when I did leave and the beliefs were still controlling me in such
utterly life-defining ways, right?
That was the scary time, right?
I had made the choice to leave.
I had made the choice to say, you know, I believe I can make this choice with my boyfriend, right?
But the internalization of these teachings ran so deep that it became clear that I didn't have control,
right?
I couldn't make those choices.
I could believe one thing and everything in me was going to scream the messages I'd been raised with
and make sure that I damn well didn't do what I want to do, right?
It's a really scary thing to have a disintegration between your sort of cognitive understanding
of yourself and then your body, you know, which is deeply, deeply rooted in a narrative
and an understanding of the world that you don't even agree with anymore.
Yeah.
Yeah, it can be super wild like that.
Part of my story, and I've told this a couple of times, is when Amy and I, my wife and I
eventually got back together, and this touches in your book as well, your book is so relevant,
even though it's not focused, it's mainly focused towards women.
It's so relevant to me, so many things.
But I recommend people, links in the description, go get this book.
Audible, physical, both great.
But I remember one time, Amy and I were back going to church.
I had moved back up to Queensland to kind of be with her.
And I was in my father's workshop, and I was working on a jewelry box for her.
And I was just making her a jewelry box as like a gift.
And I was woodworking and stuff.
And I was like, man, life is so good.
I got a strong, I was praying to God, and things were, I felt really fulfilled.
And I thought to myself, I'm going to let down those walls.
Like those walls that I've built up, that I went through a really rough season.
I'm going to let down those walls, and I'm going to go into a more intimate spot with God.
And I put on some worship music, I stopped woodworking, and I decided to start praying.
Immediately as I started praying, I felt this booming voice say, break up with Amy.
And I went, whoa.
And I immediately pulled me right out of the zone.
I vomited.
I ran outside and I vomited into the garden.
Same spot that I probably vomited 15, 10 years prior with my high school girlfriend.
And I was like, whoa.
And I had this panic attack.
And I was like, that's bizarre.
I went and spoke to pastors, and they were like, that doesn't sound right.
I went and spoke to people who knew Amy and I.
And they're like, Amy's bringing you closer to God.
And for some reason, you feel like God's telling you to break up with Amy.
And I was like, this is so, this is so hard for me to deal with.
And I speak to worship pastors.
I was doing counseling.
I was going to pastors.
I was having lunch with pastors.
I was like, every day was almost filled with seeing someone from church.
We were very well connected because I used to be the youth pastor there.
And so I knew all the staff.
I was always going there and talking to people and talking to people who knew theology.
And someone told me in the Bible scripture, he finds a wife finds a good thing.
And that, that released a lot of anxiety.
It was like, oh, if I find a wife, that's good.
It's not like, it's not like there's someone destined for me, you know,
which is what I was kind of brought up to believe.
But these anxiety attacks just didn't go away.
And I was panicking all the time.
I got diagnosed with panic disorder.
I went and saw a psychologist after my parents begged me, like, go see a secular psychologist.
Like, just go see, they didn't have to be secular.
Just go see a psychologist, not like a counselor, not like a random person at church.
Just go see someone trained.
And the first session was boring.
They just, it was like a questionnaire.
And the second session, they got me to repeat out loud,
what if God wants me to break up with Amy?
And I was like, I can't, I can't say that.
I was like, the Bible says that there's life and death in the power of the tongue.
And I'm, and I don't want to say that.
And he's like, and I argue with him for a little while.
And he's like, and he's like, he convinced me to do it.
So I'm saying, I mean, his office, I'm like,
what if God wants to break up with Amy and my anxiety would build?
And he's like, say it again.
I'm like, what if God wants to break up with Amy and my anxiety would build?
And I say it again, what if God wants to break up with Amy?
And he's like, he's like, keep going, keep going.
And I'm now panicking.
I'm now looking around his office for a bin to vomit in,
in case I just spontaneously throw up.
And I'm like, I'm really panicking now.
And he's like, say it again, say it again.
And I'm just keep saying it and saying it.
And then eventually it was like a spell broke.
And it was just like click.
And it was like, what if God, what?
And then all of a sudden it was like, why do I think that?
And it was on, it was almost like black magic.
It was almost like, if I call, I would have called it a spiritual
experience if it happened in the context of church,
but it was like, literally it just broke.
And, and then he's like, say it again.
And so I just kept saying it.
And then I was almost laughing at how stupid the thought was
and how silly the thought was.
And I was like, that's, that's so bizarre.
And turns out what I've been calling the voice of God,
in some instances, was like a form of OCD, like form of OCD tick
and an intrusive thought that I couldn't get rid of.
And by confronting it, by staring and look,
this isn't psychological advice, by the way,
go see a proper psychologist,
but by facing it and looking at it head on
and not running from it, it just went away.
And I mean, it kept coming back for a little while,
but I would just repeat the phrases
and then they would, then they went away.
And shortly after that, I had the same thing with,
what if I'm, what if I'm gay?
Or what if I don't realize that I'm gonna spontaneously become gay?
And that ruins my relationship with Amy.
And the same thing, like I started like,
I had to, you know, repeat that phrase over and over again.
But those, it's like those things, reading your book, I realized,
I never realized that was connected to purity culture,
because you're talking your books about so many people who panic.
I actually marked one of them in the end here,
who panic about, like literally there was someone out,
was it Scarlett mentioned?
Scarlett mentioned the, let me just read it, read it for a second.
One day I was in my anthropology class
and I was feeling really weird.
I started low level shaking.
I went back to my room and my heart just started beating so fast.
I never felt anything, anything like this.
I couldn't stop it.
The shaking took on a greater rising.
And then I remember, then I remembered I tried to stand up
and I fell to the ground.
I thought I was having a heart attack.
I really thought that I might be having a heart attack.
I called one of my closest friends.
He ran over to the apartment and took me to, I can't remember.
But I ended up at the hospital.
The doctor gave me Valium, which made my body be like,
Scarlett made the sound of a robot shutting down,
collapsing her body into a heap on her lap.
The doctor was a great woman who I really liked.
Scarlett continued, sorry, I'm not a very good reader.
She asked, can you tell me what you think you brought this on?
I said, I think I'm not supposed to be with my boyfriend.
I recognize how embarrassing that it was to say
when I was in the hospital,
but I really thought that's what brought it on.
And I was like, I can relate to that so much.
Yeah, yeah.
And then the next thing that that Greek doctor says is like,
did you grow up in the church or something like that, right?
Or are you thinking about having sex before marriage
or something like that?
And I was like, I remember when Scarlett told me that story,
being like, man, so that doctor had seen this before.
Like that doctor had seen people come in with panic attacks
because of sexual activity before, right?
And these things have been happening for a long time.
And we haven't been talking about them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
What a story.
What a story.
I'm so glad you share that.
And I'm also so glad that you found such an excellent psychiatrist.
It sounds like that person was incredibly helpful.
Yeah.
And I got to tell you both the breakup with this person message
is one that a lot of people hear.
I heard that.
You remember when I was in high school,
I felt like God was telling me to break up with my boyfriend,
not a booming voice, but like, I felt like I got the message.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I got the message nonetheless.
And what was the other thought that you had?
What if I'm gay and don't realize it?
Yeah, yeah.
So that's also something that, and specifically,
people I know who have had that thought have also struggled with OCD.
But the OCD attaches to these religious ideas.
Yeah.
There's these horrific taboos within religion are like,
you're going to be with the wrong person.
You're going to be gay.
You're going to be trans.
One person I talked to, they were afraid they were trans.
And then once they started to treat their OCD,
they were like, I don't know why I thought that.
I'm not.
But it's like, these are within purity culture.
These are like the end of the world, right?
We learned that this is like, these are horrific things to be afraid of, right?
I thought I would rather, like there were times when I was like,
I wasn't suicidal or anything.
But I was like, I used to get a lot of comfort thinking that one day I could die.
Like I was just like, I don't, like I can't do this anymore.
Like it was really rough.
And it's so funny because, because like what I was afraid of is that like,
that Amy and I weren't supposed to be together or that like,
I was going to spontaneously or that I'm attracted to,
I'm not attracted to women.
I'm attracted to men, but don't realize it.
And like, I'm like, I was a psychologist.
I was like, I don't want like, it's like, I'm not gay.
I'm not attracted to men.
But like, what if I am and then I'll have to like,
I don't want to go dancing and like meet dudes and like, like,
I don't want to do it.
And it's like, but you're not, it's like, I know I'm not.
It's like, I can't, it gets like really, really like,
like your brain is like, this is ridiculous.
Like it's, it's horrible.
And I've had friends who, I have a friend who's got, she's got OCD.
She's gay.
She has the same things about being straight.
So she's like, what if I'm straight?
What if I'm not actually gay?
She's like, has the same problem, but in reverse.
Interesting.
And she grew up in purity culture and stuff.
So it's like, one of the camera purity culture is like,
behind a lot of this stuff.
Like it just attaches to the, the top of brain that, you know,
I haven't, you know, some people go through purity culture
and they're fine, but others like it really harms them, right?
Yeah.
Yes.
And I mean, and that has to do with so many things, right?
Like it has to do, I do think that there's huge interactions
with mental health stuff.
I do think that there's also huge interactions with trauma,
you know, capital T and lowercase T trauma, you know,
and I also think it has to do with how much the,
your religion shaped your identity,
like your sense of yourself, like the research,
the research shows that the things that make religious
sexual messaging more likely to impact you or your gender.
And there's another thing that I'm missing,
and then the degree to which it's your identity.
So someone who like goes to the evangelical church,
but it's like, you know, I'm primarily a soccer player,
right?
You know, like in their mind, right?
They're not going to be impacted as much as someone who's like,
within the first sentence, when someone asks who I am,
I got to get in evangelical, or well, you would say Christian,
right?
Yeah.
Because that is such a core part of my identity.
And if it's really cordier identity,
then the teachings take on a greater prevalence.
But yeah, I mean, there's a lot of intersections.
And I feel like one of the things that also comes up a lot is that,
you know, so religion, a lot of psychologists see religion as
extended family.
So you've got your like immediate family,
like your actual family of origin,
and then you've got an extended family,
your religious family outside of that.
And if you have a household that has stuff going on,
that is dysfunctional, you know, abuse of even et cetera,
it is often reiterated and even like
given theological frames by the extended family of religion.
Because evangelicalism or any culture that's teaching
purity culture is going to be deeply patriarchal,
deeply controlling, squashing like we went back,
going back to what we talked about at the beginning,
squashing your real thoughts and feelings,
inserting the kinds of thoughts and feelings you're supposed
to be having, pulling away choice,
you know, exercising these like overarching controls of your life
that make, if you grew up in a home that has those things going on,
and then you grew up in a church that's like,
yes, that's what it is to be a good and healthy,
you know, family, and that's what it is.
Like the way in which you are trying to cope with it
is actually what good womanhood looks like and, you know, et cetera.
Like, you know, so I feel like the ways in which these things
show up in people's lives, you know, and the degree to which
people are impacted by it, it just depends on so much stuff, right?
You know, everything from your family to your mental health
to your other experiences, your identity, it's just a mess, right?
But it's really important that people recognize,
because I think those people who did grow up in purity culture
and feel that they weren't harmed,
which I'm not totally convinced that all of them
are in touch with that part of themselves, right?
Because there are plenty of people who have come to me and been like,
I thought I wasn't harmed, and then one day I was like,
wait a minute, what is this thing that I've been ignoring my whole life?
And that is a key to all of these things, right?
You know, but it's important, I think, for people to understand,
you know, that it can have really deep, deep and dangerous
impacts and even, you know, even suicidal impacts, right?
Yeah, hugely. I actually am so proud of my wife in that when we first got married,
I would watch movies in bed on my laptop with the screen full brightness
and just no headphones or anything.
And she just put up with it.
I didn't realize she just put up with it,
because she just thought, I just have to submit or whatever.
And now, it's so annoying, but I'm proud of her.
But I have to turn the brightness,
if I want to watch anything, I have to turn the brightness right down,
I have to put my headphones in, I have to cover the screen a little bit.
And then even I'll just tap in the back like,
can you turn it down even brighter?
Even less, I'm like, this is great.
Like, it's great that you feel free to do this, but it's no noise.
Sometimes I've slept in my office when I've got huge workloads,
because I don't want to get away, cannot buy our sun or something.
And I just have to have the laptop open.
I'm like, this is great.
This is like being a kid again.
I can work.
Yes, yes.
But so you finished the book stating that you're a type of Christian that was kind of,
you're not evangelical, but you're definitely an interesting
or a different type of Christian that you would sometimes worship
in your apartment and annoy your neighbors.
And you'd have a quiet place and things like that.
I noticed or I looked at that,
at least in the Australian Christian bookstore, Kurong,
I'm not sure if that's everywhere around the world,
but that's where we get like Christian books.
I noticed that your book doesn't show up.
And I was wondering, does your book have a Christian audience
or have you has the book and yourself?
Because it's quite a fair book.
It's not, you're not saying Christianity bad or anything.
You're just kind of giving some real world examples
of how some parts of the evangelical movement
have been damaging to people and just raw interviews, essentially.
Have you found that the churches ostracized your message a little bit
or have you had any experiences like that?
Or have you found that there's only some churches
or have you found it being pretty accepted overall?
Well, it's a good question.
I don't think my audience is churches.
I don't think my audience is evangelical churches.
The people, it's interesting.
The people who are listening and reading my book
are either in a church, but they're questioning, right?
Or maybe they're in the church, but they're like,
oh, there are some aspects of it that aren't working for me,
which already is meaning that they're kind of fringe, right?
If they're asking those kinds of questions, right?
Even if they're central and they might appear to be central
in their mind, they're pushing to the edge, right?
But in order to really look meaningfully at purity culture
and to say not just the tone,
not just the particular language, et cetera,
but really the heart of this message is deeply, deeply problematic
and needs to be torn down to the ground
and rebuilt from the ground up.
If you want to have, if you want to stand by that
or even read a book that talks about that,
you can't be too comfortable in evangelicalism.
So I find that my audience is primarily people
who are on the fringe or people who actually have left
and are not necessarily people who are in the church,
which is interesting, right?
Because I did attempt to be really fair
and to really focus on purity culture as much as possible
and not go much further into the many,
many other problematic aspects of the culture.
But there's a, that is still too taboo for a church audience.
But I had hoped that I would be able to have an inroad
within the church so that there would be some real awakening
within the church.
But that was, I think that was overly optimistic
about what the church was willing to do.
So had your, can you go into a little bit about
how your faith developed through the writing process
of what, was it 15 or 16 years
from when you kind of started doing your research,
12 years of interviews or two years
or something of writing, like how long it was?
Yeah, yeah.
How did your faith develop?
And then after that, like since the book was coming out,
how was your belief system developed?
Yeah, well, so, I mean, it has been 19 years
since I started doing interviews at this point.
That is out of control.
I shouldn't have said in the book 12 years,
I should have said a date.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, yeah, because it's like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
This keeps changing, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Because I swayed because I heard some like interviews
and then I was like, wait, that,
like, because I was doing research on you.
I was like, wait, what is it?
What do you do to me?
It's like, yeah, yeah.
Right, right, yeah, totally.
Yeah, time keeps ticking, right?
Yeah, and I did the research for 12 years
and then what I ended up doing was
I did the research for 12 years
and then I think my memory is then
when I got the book deal, I recontacted everybody
and those who wanted to, I re-interviewed
and those are the ones I used for the book, right?
So, yeah, so even within the,
and then their book takes a couple of years.
So anyway, so there was a lot of time.
Yeah, I mean, it's evolved a lot over the years.
When I first left Evangelicalism,
I left church altogether,
though I think I still had a very Christian
understanding of God and I was still,
eventually found my way back to praying, et cetera, et cetera.
And I think that then over the years,
sort of getting closer to the time of writing the book,
I started to work in religious reform.
So I started to work with the world's major religious traditions
who were doing gender and sexual reform internally.
So the most progressive people
within these various religious expressions.
And that was a really eye-opening experience for me
because it really showed me that there are many, many
Christianities, many of all religions, right?
There are many expressions of them.
And some of them are like dope, right?
And like deeply justice-based
and like really trying to do some really important healing work
and succeeding in many cases.
And so I think that's when I started to feel like,
okay, maybe there could be a Christianity
that I would realign with, right?
And when the book was coming out,
I was in a moment where I was more aligned with the church,
like theoretically then going to church itself, right?
Like I didn't go to church myself,
but I still feel felt very strongly like a cultural Christian.
Like it informed how I looked at everything.
And I was a deeply spiritual person
and Christianity was still the primary frame
for my spirituality.
Do you know what I mean?
I feel like as the years have gone on,
Christianity becomes less of the frame for my spirituality.
Like I still, I'm still a very spiritual person.
And I'm not using the Christian language to access it
the way that I once was, right?
One of the things that I,
when I have folks who I'm working with
who want to hold on to spirituality or religion or faith
or whatever they want to be holding on to,
one of the things that we do is we,
and this is not something I do with everyone, right?
Because a lot of people are like,
I don't want to touch religion with a 10 foot pole.
But if somebody does want to hold on to those things,
one of the things we'll do is be like,
you know, what is a term that doesn't hold all the baggage for you, right?
And maybe that term is love, right?
Or maybe that term is higher power.
Or maybe that term is Sophia, right?
You know, like wisdom, right?
Maybe that term is, you know,
it could be any number of things, right?
And can we learn to connect to something that is beyond our
understanding without the frame of Christianity
that has harmed us so much, right?
And that's more where I find myself these days.
Okay. So how, do you mind if I ask you how,
like you engage in your spirituality?
Is it still prayer, meditation, kind of like those quiet moments?
Or is it, or are you still singing praises?
Like you're still singing like shout to the Lord by a Dalian check?
A Dalian check?
Oh, I've got it now, but chill song.
Are you still singing like those songs?
And like are you still engaging?
Or is it kind of like a feeling that you kind of engage with?
Well, you know, I don't know, I mean,
first of all, I haven't sung praise songs in a catrillion years.
I think in the book, I think in the book,
what I was describing, if I, I don't know if I explained it,
how I explained it in the book, but what I was doing at that point
was these sort of sing, I would sing a question.
And I would sing the question over and over and over and over.
And I would sing my way into an answer, right?
So it was a form of singing, singing meditation.
Do you know what I mean?
So it would be like, it would be like,
like, like going into the zone where you lose,
you lose your conscious self and then you connect to your subconscious,
God, whatever you want to call it.
And, you know, and something appears, right?
It's very similar to like, you know,
meditation where you're like, you know,
I'm going to bring this question to love and be like,
you know, what if God wants me to break up with Amy?
How would love answer that, right?
You know, like, or what have you, right?
So, oh, my computer's, I just don't want it to die on.
Oh yeah, that's, that would be upsetting.
We would be sad.
Yeah, just like, it just ends lovely.
So I don't remember how I described it in the book,
but it was real esoteric stuff that I was doing with the music, right?
It was like, it was like a form of like trying to get beyond
the conscious mind, right?
And trying to get to the subconscious,
the spiritual, the unknown, whatever it is that holds,
that holds a deeper wisdom than what I could hold, right?
So I would say I still do very various forms of that, right?
So that might be like, you know, journaling back and forth
until I kind of get past my conscious mind, right?
You know, with love or whatever, you know, whatever frame my own,
deepest wisdom, my true self, whatever it is, right?
I'm more likely to use phrases like that, Sophia.
I like the phrase Sophia, you know.
So I'll do, you know, that is one form.
I haven't done the same one in a while,
but that's mostly because I have a little one, as you know,
and I just don't have the kind of time to do that.
But, you know, meditation, right?
Other forms.
But really what I'm trying to do is like, you know,
to bring it back to what you talked about about that, like letting go.
It's what my mom, again, experiences, I think,
when she's in that little sliver of space that is hers, right?
You know, that's what I find that the spiritual practice looks like
for me these days is like finding spaces in which I can be in my own energy
and trying to get past the part of me that's like,
you got to do this and don't forget to do that.
And, you know, and then what's that person thinking about you
and like, you know, all that crap, right?
And getting to what is real, which I think, for me,
still means more than just what is in me.
Like for me, there is still, I still hold a belief that there is more beyond me
that intermingles with whatever is inside of me, right?
And that I can access it when I drop the shit, right?
So I don't know.
Is that a good answer?
It doesn't make sense.
It's hard to, it's hard to verbal.
You probably have never even like sat down to think like, well, what do you know,
like verbalize exactly?
Yeah, I haven't.
Yes, you're catching your raw.
Yeah.
So, no, but, but so it's perfect, because I think that a big criticism
I have of, well, it's not a criticism, actually.
I don't know what it is, but yeah, it is a criticism, I guess.
But the, the left community that I'm a part of,
like the left community, the 80s community that I'm a part of.
Is very much intellectual.
It's very much, what does the Bible say?
What, you know, how can we justify this?
Is this a rational thought process?
But I think that if you were to just live life like that,
you're missing like one half of the human, the human experience.
I think that ritual is important.
I think art is important.
I think, I think they use just different parts of the brain.
You're not going to look at a piece of art,
what you can look at a piece of art and use theory to determine
whether or not it's a good piece of art or something.
But it comes from a different spot in the human condition, I think.
And I think things like ritual, like I've had spiritual experiences
and things like that, quote unquote, spiritual experiences.
I don't personally attach a truth claim to them.
So when, when someone meditates and they have a profound experience
or they take psychedelics and they have a profound experience,
I don't believe that when someone takes psychedelics,
they actually went to another plane of existence.
And when they were speaking to deities,
they were the creators of the universe or whatever.
I just, they had that experience and that was very, very real to them.
But I don't necessarily attach a truth claim to that.
But I don't think that that's necessarily,
but I still think there's something there.
I still think that we need to have rituals.
Like, I tell this story, I've told this story probably 10 times
on Deep Drinks, but one of my, when we first went to Bali,
I was reading the Bhagavad Gita because it's a Hindu island.
And I was like, I want to learn about Hinduism.
So I was reading the, listening to the Bhagavad Gita.
I had had like a bunch of cocktails on poolside,
this techno blaring in the background,
like my wife's next to me and we're just chilling there in the sun.
And I'm listening to like an Arjuna said to,
you know, I'm listening to the Bhagavad Gita.
And we got to chapter nine and it was like this profound,
it sounded like something straight out of Psalms or Ezekiel.
It's like, I am the wood and the fire that consumes it.
I am the beginning, I am the end, I'm the Alpha and the Omega.
And it was like Krishna, I think it was Krishna,
talking to Arjuna, it's been a while, about who he is.
And it was like this very like, and I was like, whoa,
and it was like this very like this awe moment.
But I don't believe in the Hindu gods.
I don't believe that it's actually real.
But I believe it's touching something.
It's like it's, it's touching this primal, this, this, you know,
you can read beautiful poetry or look up at the stars
and you have this feeling.
And I, and I get that from ritual.
I get that this, I interviewed someone,
Biddy Buddha, who is a, I think the term she uses
is ritual agnosticism, where she's not a believer
in any type of religion, but she really loves
the rituals around like crystals, tarot cards.
She like, you see her, she'd look like, you know,
she's got dreadlocks and she wears all the pendant
and then she, you know, wears things and she has the statues.
And, and it's, and she really finds a lot of enjoyment
and it removes her nihilism,
but she doesn't actually think that there is something,
I guess, behind them on a greater level.
She kind of like, it's like playing,
it's almost like playing make-believe in a way,
but not really.
It's like you, you, you, you touch those things
with your emotions, not with your intellect,
if that makes sense, but you use them as tools.
I wonder if you, what do you think about that?
Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, I think that, I think that maybe what,
what I'm hearing, what I, what I sort of identify with
is using them as tools, as you said,
and not always knowing what is true and what is not true
and not always caring what is true and what is not true
and trusting that something is true
and that, and that the, the outreach is worth something.
Right? So like, yeah.
So I'll use, I'll use deities from other religions
if it feels useful.
Like if I'm specifically thinking about obstacles,
you know, I don't mind, you know, pulling in Ganesh, right?
Like, you know, like, like, but it's not
because I believe in Ganesh, right?
But like, there is something about the energy of like,
you know, I'm working through some obstacles right now, right?
You know, there's, and there's something about
like the play of it, of, you know, whether it's cards
or whatever it is, there's a degree of like play to it
that, that I, that I hear in what you're describing
from your previous guest.
But I think that there's also a degree of like,
like not knowing this, right?
Like, you know, maybe all of this is untrue
and maybe all of this is deeply true.
But either way, I trust that it's worth the effort,
you know, and that, and that something is catching me.
And if it's like my own deep, true self,
and if it's, you know, something larger than outside of myself,
like, you know, I don't fully know the answer to that question.
My, I lean toward it being both, right?
But I don't know the answer to that question.
But I, but it feels worth the effort,
do you know what I mean to, to attempt to engage?
Like that is, that is what religion really is.
You know, none of us, you know, in my perspective,
none of us knows anything, right?
You know, we're all just reaching.
And sometimes we get, you know, little images
of something that seems real.
And, you know, we might form a religion around it, right?
For me, what I think is really important,
and this kind of goes back to your story
about hearing the voice of God telling you to break up with Amy.
For me, one thing that I talk about with clients a lot is
touch in to what you feel when the thing comes up.
And if what you feel is terror and judgment
and shame and that's not insert the word that you use.
Love, Sophia, my own inner wisdom, whatever it is, right?
If the feeling is like peace and calm and you're okay, right?
That, you know, aligns with your picture of love or whatever.
This is one of the reasons why we pull out these words, right?
And then we stop using the words
that have a lot of dogma attached to them.
Because the word God for a lot of people has all of it.
Like it has the like you're okay and the like you are not okay, right?
And so, you know, so if you have a word like that
that holds both of these messages,
then you can't tell when the voice is telling you
you're awful and you're going to hell, you know, if that's God,
you know, any more or less than when the voice says,
you're beautiful and I love you just the way you are, right?
You know, so that's why coming up with new language can be useful
so that you can be like, you know, what I'm really like,
what I'm really attached to and love about this religion,
spiritual space that I'm engaging with is the like real deep wisdom,
not the shaming stuff, right?
So what are you feeling when you hear that voice, right?
What are you feeling when, you know, something comes up
that you feel like is this something bigger than myself?
If you're feeling self-hatred, it ain't any God I want to have anything to do with.
Yeah, I mean, it's so complex, isn't it?
Because it gets into your perspective of like the way that you view God.
I had a love interest ask me when I was in church,
do you view God as like up there on a throne or like a best friend here on earth?
And I was just like, both.
But like, I think a lot of like, she definitely didn't see God as like up there on the throne,
but I was like, we need to make sure we're doing the will of God, you know,
like it was like, I had that very much like John Bavir,
I don't know if you know him, like driven by attendee, you know,
the bait of Satan is a fence and all that kind of stuff, like be protective of your faith.
So, yeah, it's interesting how the advice that I always give myself
is just to enjoy your life, like enjoy it, like wherever you're at,
like just enjoy it, like don't take things so seriously,
because like my beliefs have changed like crazy and that's okay.
So yeah, yeah, I think that's good advice.
I think that's good advice.
Also, yes, like everything that we're saying is like straight up sacrilege
from the communities in which we, you know, like, like this is, you know, yeah,
all the things that we were told are dangerous, right?
I can hear all the, all the, if you've got anyone who's still,
who's still impacted by those worlds, I can hear all the narratives of like,
you know, what's, what's coming up in people's minds as they hear this.
Yeah.
Speaking and choosing and all the stuff, right?
So we have about 15 minutes left and I want to ask some, some questions of you
for some advice for people.
But before we do that, I want to just quickly break the ice with a video that I found on
TikTok that I just thought I would get your commentary on.
So this is the video.
Let me know if you can't hear it, but here we go.
That I believe and I've seen thousands at this point, thousands.
I wrote a book called More Revolutions.
I've seen thousands of people's virginity restored.
I, I have, I have hundreds of emails about girls hymens being restored.
Hundreds.
Yeah.
It's not typically something you tell your pastor,
by the way, I had a creative miracle.
Really?
Awesome.
What happened?
God restore my hymen.
And I didn't mention that I was going to be showing this before we started and it's
humorous, but you had a bit of a different take on it in the pre-interview.
Can you, what do you think?
Yeah.
Well, I mean, hymen is like a whole other thing, right?
To like restore one's hymen.
That's like, that's, yeah.
And that's virginity.
Right.
Right.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
I mean, it's so complicated because, you know, now that I've watched the clip, I also
have some other thoughts, right?
But this, but this idea of like, you know, it is a practice around the world to
sew women's, you know, vaginas tighter, you know what I mean?
Like there is this sort of like, re-virgination for men's pleasure and to prove that a woman has
not sinned like the, you know, like the hymen, right?
Like we're talking about like sheets with blood on it, right?
Like there's like, there's something real, like deep about, about re-virgination that,
that feels very problematic.
But yeah, but what, but what I, when you said you were going to watch it,
we were going to show a video about re-virgination.
When I let my dog come in here, I did not know he was going to be itching the entire time.
Yeah, that's fine, that's fine.
I'm so sorry, but it is such a prominent part of my interview.
But, you know, but what I, what I brought up was, you know, there's also this whole
like re-virgination movement, which is probably what this guy that you showed,
you know, is involved in.
And re-virgination, the re-virgination movement is like, you know, it's complex because it is
both for women, primarily women who grew up in purity culture and feel like a deep
amount of shame and they can feel like they can be re-virginized and kind of like get back
a little bit of that sense of like worth, which is just a heartbreaking notion, right?
But then there's also, yeah, right.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah. And I mean, and many people believe that, which is why, you know, women have their
vaginas sewn tighter, right?
Because I thought that was a joke.
The toddler doctor put an extra stitch.
I thought that was a joke.
I didn't realize it actually happened.
You know, it happens.
Yeah.
Yeah, it happens.
Yeah, globally.
But, you know, but anyway, so, so this is, but then there's also a lot of survivors of
rape who are grew up in the church movement who go through a re-virgination process.
And maybe who don't, you know, grow up in the church, right?
There's something about, for people who are attached to the concept of virginity, right,
to have that sort of like taken from them, you know, is a horrific thing, right?
And so there's, so the re-virgination movement is complex in that sense, right?
Like it gives people, it gives people a sense of
people who feel like they've lost their worth, some sense of worth, which is meaningful.
But of course, that's based on a rubric where your worth is based on your virginity, right?
Which is part of the patriarchal world we live in.
You know, and I'm speaking specifically from women's perspective.
I understand it is a value for men too, but I, yeah, but I'm, but for women, of course,
it's like, you know, it defines who you are, like your worth, right?
Yeah. Anyway, yes. So there's just so much, it brings up so much.
We are, what, what advice would you give to someone who, well, first of all,
someone who's been very damaged by purity culture?
And secondly, do you have advice for someone who has maybe been in a
higher control or domestic violence situation and his, as many years later now,
struggling still to find relationships or to, to let themselves open up sexually with someone
again, maybe someone who has experienced sexual violence? Do you have advice for those people?
Whew. Sorry to end on such a big question. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
yeah, let me hold the second question. Yeah. First,
I mean, I think what I would first say is that, you know, you are not alone.
You know, for people who are raised in purity culture, I find that there is a
sense that we have to accept whatever is given to us and whatever comes to us, right?
I think of narratives like God is teaching you a lesson, you know, just,
you know, you do the right thing and the right, and then everything will work out,
you know, you know, there's like, there's so much that makes us, I think, particularly as women
in toxic environments, whether they're toxic relationships, toxic work environments, toxic
friendships, when we're raised in purity culture to withstand toxicity, right, that makes us feel
like this is just what it is. There's no escape. There's no getting out. There's no changing things.
I just have to be stronger. I have to pray harder. I have to whatever the case may be, right?
And so I think the first thing I would say is that, you know, you're so not alone and that
that narrative is one that was taught to you and is not true, right? You don't have to
stay. You don't have to accept. You don't have to etc., right? Like that's just
one frame of the world that was handed to you. And it's one that probably has gotten really,
really, really deep inside. And you're not alone in struggling with releasing it,
but it's possible, right? It's possible. We, you know, our neural pathways were deeply, deeply
shaped during important developmental phases of our lives. And so it takes a lot of time as an
adult to reshape our brain, right? But we can do it. So, so hold on, find, find support, right?
And know, know that you're not alone in the experience and you're not alone in the,
in your finding your way out of the experience. It'll probably be my advice for anyone, right?
You know, who's struggling with these things. I feel like, I feel like the, you know, there's so
much, maybe what I'll say is this. I feel like the recovery process is, is two parts. It's,
you know, it's the deconstruction of all the stuff that we learned that's deeply problematic.
And that hurts. And it's hard. And it's painful. And it comes with loss, loss of relationships,
loss of identity, loss of purpose, all kinds of loss. It sucks in a lot of ways. But then there's
this other process that is the reconstruction of the self and the rebuilding of a life that actually
aligns with what you feel and what you need and what you desire and all kinds of other things
that feels amazing. Like it feels incredible to make a choice for yourself. Like I think about,
you know, when Amy went from, from, you know, staying up and being bothered by your, your TV
screen all night to when she was like, I'm going to start telling him to like turn down the like,
I'll bet it feels amazing for her to sleep. You know what I mean? Like it feels great to do
something that's good, that actually serves you, right? So, you know, so I know not for you so much.
But my point is like, you have to do them both at the same time. Like in order to do the deconstruction,
you have to also be doing the reconstruction, learning how to live out of your own heart and
out of your own mind and etc, etc. Because when you do, it actually feels so good that it allows
you to keep on doing the hard work of pulling it all apart. So there is, there is, there is joy
on the other side is I guess what I'm trying to say, right? There is like sleeping through the
night on the other side, right? Yeah. What about, so what about someone who's gone through like,
like the like domestic violence or, or that kind of like hard trauma? Is there,
is there anything specific that you kind of discover that helps people kind of move past that
past those past experiences you're coaching? I mean, it depends, it depends on where you're
at with it, right? You know, but, but I think again, I would go back to this idea of like
pulling apart the, you know, the narratives that told you that you have to be there and you have to,
somehow you deserve it. Somehow you have to withstand it. You have to learn your lesson from,
you know, God or whatever the case may be. Those, those stories need to be deconstructed.
Like we need to identify those stories and pull them apart and look at who they serve and identify
them beyond, you know, like we, we just accept them in our bodies as true. And even if theoretically
we might understand they're not, if we don't really do the work to fully deconstruct them and
where those messages came from, et cetera, like, you know, they're, they're still convincing
within ourselves, right? So there is the work of like pulling apart the nitty gritty, right?
You know, like, what made me, what made me have it not occur to me that I could stand up and walk
out of the room that day? Do you know what I mean? Like, that's interesting that I did not
even realize that I could have done that, right? Like what's going on inside of me and what are
the narratives and what are the stories and where did I learn them and what are the things I've seen
in my life? Like there's so much there that goes beyond purity culture, of course, you know, with
a lot of these things. Like I said, you know, we're talking about family and extended family, right?
And I, I can mean, I mean that literally is family and also family can represent a whole lot of
different things, experience and theology experience. So it's almost like you have like
concentric circles, like you have the core of something, a trauma that happened to you,
a family abuse, a toxic family, a, you know, whatever. And then you have a theology that's
deeply problematic that becomes this concentric circle around it that just like pushes in on it
and makes it solid, right? And makes it even harder to see for what it is, right? It's, you
know, so it's, it really requires unpacking, like really getting air, you know, and then
simultaneously, you know, that work of finding, finding like what actually feels amazing, right?
Like, you know, which is feeling your own feelings, actually being safe enough in your body that you
can experience what you're feeling, that you know what your body is, is feeling, right? You know,
for many of us, our bodies are not safe enough to even feel, right? You know, you know, these
things, these things are kind of the, the first steps of, of rebuilding your life in a way that
starts with you. You know, it's like, it's like, how do you get to you, right? And then, you know,
once you've gotten to you enough that you have a sense of, okay, I actually know what I want. And
I actually, you know, like at least one sliver of what I want, right? Learning how to make choices
that align with it, which, which is, you know, is, is, feels, feels so good, right?
But this is deep stuff, right? Well, deep drinks, right? This is what we, this is what we do.
But what I'm hearing into a lot is to look at, look at your experience with compassion. It's to
like, why did I do this? Why, you know, and not to judge yourself, not to know why did I stay in
that relationship? Why did I freak out when I was a teenager? And this is like, look at it with
compassion and go like, that's interesting. Why did I feel like that? And I think that's really
important. Well, thank you so much for coming on. I don't want to keep you over time. So I do want
to shout out your book is linked in the description. Pure. I absolutely recommend it. It is a, it is
really easy read from me, like a, like it's not technical or anything. But it's also,
like it made me laugh. It made me cry. Well, maybe tear up at least, maybe laugh, maybe tear up.
I got angry. I got happy. I felt relief. Like it's, it's, you feel a lot of stuff when you read
this. And of course, could you just share with everyone some of your, your coaching and like
what you do there? Yeah. I mean, you're getting a little bit of a sense of it from this conversation,
right? You know, I, I work with people who were raised in purity culture. And sometimes that
looks like evangelicalism and some most of the time it looks like evangelicalism, but not always
other forms of purity culture as well. You know, and we do work around this reconstruction and
the deconstruction that, that has to happen simultaneously, right? And that sort of reordering
of your life. And that includes your relationships and your sexuality and your gender, but also
includes everything else, you know, how do you actually start out of an alignment with yourself?
So, yeah, that's what we do. Awesome. Well, it's an absolute pleasure to have you on, Linda. Is
there anything else you want to say before we kind of wrap up the interview? No, thank you very much
for having me on. I really appreciate it. You know, this is, this is what I would also say
for anybody who's listening, who's going through a really hard time right now.
Um, you know, you are worthy of help and you are worthy of asking for help. And
maybe that doesn't look like reaching out to someone like me. Maybe that looks like reaching
out to a friend who you know, will actually hear you or reaching out to a therapist or what have
you. But, you know, we, another thing that we often learn is that, is that to expose that we need
help is, is to expose that we're not good enough, right? Like you're supposed to have all the answers
you're supposed to, if you say you don't know something or you need help, then you haven't
prayed enough and you haven't accepted God's will for your life or you haven't, you know, etc, etc,
right? Um, you know, so, so just, just urging people, you know, to know that you are worth help
and that you are worth asking for help. That's fantastic. Great advice. Thank you so much.
You can stay in the back room if you, if you want, um, and we can chat briefly afterwards.
But thank you everyone for coming out. This has been wonderful. Go check out the links
all in the description and look forward to the next episode. We've got not so early coming on.
We've got Derek Lambert of mid vision podcast. We've got the 100th episode of deep drinks coming
up and we also have some exciting guests, um, for next year, including a, um, I know will be a heated
conversation between myself and inspiring philosophy, uh, about the, um, benefits of, uh,
the societal benefits, pros and cons of religion. So a friendly heated discussion. So that'll be
great. So see you guys later and keep thinking deeply.
Yeah.
