Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcast, the deepest podcast on the internet.
Today we have a panel and we're going to be talking about purity culture horror stories
or purity culture in general.
There's a trigger warning, we are going to be going in depth into sexuality, how things
have affected us sexually, like a lot of sexiness, talking about kinks, we're talking about all
sorts of things, nothing is off limits.
So please, if that stuff can kind of trigger you, make sure you maybe be careful going
forward or switch off or something like that, but trigger warning there.
So I have a quick definition before we jump into a purity culture is a social and religious
movement that promotes abstinence from sex until marriage and emphasises the importance
of maintaining sexual purity.
While it may have positive intentions, there are several negative side effects associated
with purity culture.
The shame and guilt purity culture often instills a deep sense of shame and guilt in individuals
who engage in sexual activity before marriage and outside of a monogamous relationship which
can lead it to feelings of worthlessness and depression.
Stigmatisation, individuals who deviate from the norms of purity culture can be stigmatised
ostracised or judged by the community leading to social isolation and mental health issues.
A lack of sexual education, this is a big one, purity culture often promotes abstinence
only sex education which can lead to individuals without a comprehensive understanding of safe
sex practices, consent and healthy relationships increasing the risk of unplanned pregnancies
and sexual transmitted infections.
Objectification of women, so it's funny because purity culture aims to try and not objectify
women but as a result purity culture tends to focus disproportionately on women's purity
and virginity which can perpetuate harmful gender stereotypes and contribute to the objectification
and devaluation of women.
Damaged relationships, the emphasis on sexual purity can create unrealistic expectations
and pressure within relationships leading to feelings of inadequacy, trust issues and
dissatisfaction.
Difficulty in sexual identity and expression, purity culture can limit individuals exploration
of their sexual identity, making it difficult for them to accept and express their authentic
selves and you see this a lot with people who identify as trans and obviously LGBT.
Mental health issues, the combination of shame, guilt and repression associated with purity
culture can contribute to anxiety, depression and other mental health issues and lastly
in impact on sexual assault survivors.
So purity culture emphasises emphasis on virginity and purity can be particularly damaging
for survivors of sexual assault who may feel invalidated or even blame themselves for
the assault.
So today we aim for a cathartic and open panel.
There is no shame, guilt or judgement here.
No one's sexual identity, gender expression, preference or horror stories are to be judged.
Please treat everyone both the panellists and each other in the deep drink comments with
a chat with respect that they deserve.
Today we have to have an awesome discussion on the topics that once felt taboo to laugh
at our experiences and to help others with our stories.
Let's jump into it.
Welcome everyone to the Deep Drinks panel.
Thank you all for coming out.
I'm going to quickly just get through the introductions.
So I myself am Dan McDonald, I'm a former youth pastor, now agnostic atheist, I make
content about religion and philosophy and human rights and today I'm drinking a Scotch
as well as some coffee as well as a Coke and some water.
So I've got all the drinks here to really have a fun night, so that's me.
Stacey.
Hi.
Introduce yourself.
I'm apostasy, but my name is Stacey and I'm drinking white wine Bacchus.
I live in Vernon, British Columbia, it's wine country, so I'm drinking a local wine.
And I host a secular soapbox on Skepticaven Network on Wednesday nights and I just kind
of do other shows like I've done David's show and yeah, I'm just enjoying doing the rounds
of interviews like this and getting, helping people with like religious trauma.
So thank you for having me and I'm excited to meet all of you, Dr. Ben.
I've actually met you on my very first show a year ago, so it's so awesome to see you
again, but it's wonderful to meet all of you, so thank you for having me, David.
Next.
Awesome.
Dr. Ben.
Hi, I'm Dr. Ben, formerly known as student Dr. Ben, but I am a med school graduate, starting
family medicine residency with the US Army in June.
So lots of changes coming.
I host my own show called Medical Myths on Saturdays at 3pm Eastern time, except for
this week because I'm actually recovering from top surgery right now, so I haven't been
doing a whole lot of things this week.
But there's that show.
I also do a trivia night on Twitch on Fridays and that's under Family Dr. Ben.
All my handles now have changed to Family Dr. Ben.
I'm also a regular host of Talk Heathen with ACA and the transatlantic call-in show on
the line, and you can find me kind of all over the place.
I will be dialing back a little bit this next year because of residency, but you can still
find me occasionally in places.
Awesome.
Awesome.
Emily, the amazing Emily who has an amazing podcast.
Thanks, David.
Hi, everybody.
I'm Emily.
I'm most known for my comedy and doing deconstruction advocacy under the name Feral Pastors Wife.
I'm currently sort of transitioning out of that space and back into real life, but this
topic is one that I'm really, really passionate about, so I'm really happy to be here with
you all, and I'm drinking an epheral spritz.
I forgot to say what I was drinking.
Oh, yeah.
I can't have alcohol right now, so I have a rock star.
Hey.
Because you are a rock star.
Is that like a Red Bull ripoff, like sort of drink?
Is that like an energy drink?
Yeah, so it's...
I ended up buying rock star because it's cheaper by about, I think it's about 50 cents cheaper
than a monster, and it's like a dollar cheaper than a Red Bull, and it's got like double
the caffeine, so it's like it is worth the money.
What flavor?
What flavor is that?
It's a black and white can.
This is the Rockstar Pure Zero Silver Ice.
It is, I think, citrus, some kind of citrus, vague citrus flavor, but it's got 240 milligrams
of caffeine instead of 160, so it's worth the money, and 50 cents cheaper than a monster.
Awesome.
And Emily, you're drinking an epheral spritz, you said?
Yes, sir.
What is that?
What is an epheral spritz?
It's while aparol, which is an aperitif, liqueur, and then champagne, and a little bit of seltzer
water, and garnish with an orange if you're feeling crazy.
Nice, nice.
Okay, Nicole, and we know that Nicole always drinks the craziest drinks when she comes on
deep drinks.
It's just a wild one.
I'm wild, and today's is B-Raid.
Oh, yeah!
It's been hydrated.
That's so funny.
I'm Nicole Mitchell.
I'm known as the pastor-turned-stripper.
I'm a top-only-fans creator, and I help people through life coaching.
I either do one-on-one clients, or I teach live digital courses, or through conversations
and content in my OnlyFans to help people live their truest life and make a shit ton
of money.
So thank you for having me, David.
Awesome.
That's so good.
And Jeremy.
I'm Jeremy Schumacher.
I'm a licensed marriage and family therapist.
I have my own practice, Wellness with Jer.
So I work with couples.
I have a specialty in religious trauma, which is kind of the overlap here.
I was raised a fundamentalist, so that's the other overlap here.
I also have a random specialty in sports performance.
So I do couples counseling, religious trauma work, and sports performance.
And I am drinking Jager and Red Bull, so we got a wide range of classy beverages tonight.
So Jeremy, you mentioned that the heating in the office that you're in is gone out,
so you might be freezing throughout this, so you'd be drinking more and more alcohol
to try and stay warm.
Just keep having alcohol, and you're warm right up, right?
See, Jeremy has taken the classic Jager bomb and just drinking it as a cocktail, which is
not annoying.
Mixed drink.
It's my favorite beverage for the summer.
That's awesome.
That's awesome.
Guys, this is a big problem, first of all, getting into this topic, and that is we need
to make sure we're on the same level.
And I have no idea what kind of purity culture you guys grew up with, so I've got a bit of
a test that we can do, a bit of a game, that can kind of put us in the, see where we're
all at, okay?
So I need everyone to close your eyes and try and imagine yourself as the most purity
culture, purity person that you were back when maybe you attended a church or whatever,
and just put yourself in that, you know, become that person again for the next five minutes.
And we're going to answer these questions.
You can open your eyes now.
We're going to answer these questions.
And we're going to rank these sins.
So everyone, you know, if you're a Christian, you probably grew up thinking that every
sin is a sin, and you're going to hell unless you accept Jesus and repent from your sins.
There was definitely a feeling in at least my church that some sins were worse than others.
So like kissing your girlfriend might have felt like a sin, but like if you got too
kissy or something, but sleeping with a bunch of people on like a football team, then you
would, that would feel worse.
So we're going to rank sexual sins.
And if you want to join in in the comments and express your agreement or dissatisfaction
then let us then please do that.
But here we go.
Okay.
So here's the sexual sin tier list.
Okay.
And Emily, your face is getting blocked by that.
So I'm going to remove.
There we go.
So okay, where are we going to put I'm going to try.
I'm going to.
So everyone's going to might have different opinions.
I'm going to try and I'm going to be the final voice based on where you guys kind of sitting.
Otherwise it'll take forever.
So talking about masturbation.
So these are all AI heart generated imagery.
Let me just zoom in.
So and it took me ages and I actually got banned from using the AI because I will type
in like a bunch of shirtless people hugging and I'll be like, you're banned and I got
banned.
Oh no.
Okay.
So this is the image that I come up with masturbation.
So how?
So we got, we got probably okay, but careful may be a little okay, a little sin, bad sin,
bad sin.
How bad sin.
So and that's the image.
It's a lady looking at her hands.
Yeah.
So where are we going to put that on our knees, you know, and as bad as bad sin, I would agree
with that.
I think this, this level depends on how if you're perceived as a man or a woman in the
church, I think it's different.
Yeah.
So do you think it was worse for women?
Definitely women.
Yeah.
I think, I think most men were like, it's bad, but we're going to do it.
You know, like they're, they were all kind of doing it.
Yeah.
Just, and just for reference, like back when I was a Christian, I was not out as trans
and I didn't even know what being trans was.
So all of my experience was as, as a woman in the church, which is very weird.
You have the most unique perspective, I think, with anyone.
Definitely.
Okay.
All right.
So it's bad sin.
Yeah.
I would, I would consider it bad sin as well in my mind.
Oh, I was raised fundamentalist.
So all these are going to be hellbound sins for me, you know, just, you thought about
sex and you weren't married, you're going to hell.
Okay.
Looking at someone's lust.
So I got this person with binoculars.
Meh.
Meh.
Meh.
Meh.
I think.
Yeah, it's meh.
Okay.
Cool.
Cool.
Cool.
Cool.
Yeah.
I think so as well.
Uh, pornography.
Yeah.
Look at this image.
Oh, oh, that's a very, very bad, very bad.
Very bad.
Very bad sin.
Okay.
I wonder if I can zoom in a bit more.
I'll post some of these.
These are such good pictures.
I love that.
You look so happy.
I love that picture.
Did anybody else like, did any of your parents like, uh, make you get a, a, like a safety
browser so that you wouldn't be caught watching porn?
Covenant eyes, right?
Yeah.
Covenant eyes.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
I mean, I came from a similar background because that was fun to evangelical too.
Well, then I did, I did therapy at a Christian.
I started out my practice.
I was still a Christian and so I worked at a Christian counseling place.
So like I had all these guys who found me because I was a male therapist.
So I had all the porn cases because they don't want to go see a lady therapist.
They got to go talk to dude about it.
So it's like every man's battle and all this stuff.
So I have like my personal experience and then like how many porn cases did I work with?
Yeah, exactly.
So Covenant eyes, people being like, can I have you be my accountability person?
I was like, no.
Nope.
Maybe your asker would be good for that.
I don't want that thing.
I think in my Baptist church, people just assumed that women weren't doing it.
And so none of the parents were scared about their daughters masturbating or watching porn,
even though obviously it's happening, you know, but I don't think that that was very well known.
I was going to ask like, what age do you, I don't know if girls talk about this,
but what age do you get like definitely dudes do?
Like when I was like 12, like, yeah, if you touch a dick, you do it feels good.
But what do girls talk about this?
Like talk about masturbation habits or anything like that.
Or is it kind of like, you know, those habits didn't cross my mind until college,
but I think I was a late bloomer in that aspect.
Yeah, I started when I was like five.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
I did it when I was really young.
I just didn't know what it was.
And like, and you can get away with doing it in ways that aren't obvious either.
So you can like, like when you're a kid and don't know what it is,
like you can have fun anywhere because nobody knows what you're doing.
Yeah, which is normal and healthy sexual development for children.
Hey, thank you, Jeremy.
Thank you.
Thank you for dropping that in.
Okay.
So now we've got some fornication.
So which is the image I use for fornication?
Oh, it's this image fornication.
So people meeting in a nightclub and that's the only one I could think of to get.
Very bad.
Very bad.
I'd say very bad.
Very bad.
Very bad.
Okay.
Okay.
And that's, that's New Testament.
It's outlawed right there.
Yeah.
It's a fornicate.
Okay.
So this is where it's a little, little bit fun because I think this actually goes
into the realm of like marriage as well.
So you're in a healthy monogamous relationship.
What happens when your partner or someone or you want to try butt stuff is butt stuff
to a sin when you're in marriage?
Oh, I was taught that that it is.
I was.
I don't.
Yeah.
I don't.
Yeah.
I think if it's still within the confines of marriage, it's not as bad in at least my
church's eyes.
Yeah.
I was told that like once you're married, kind of anything is okay within.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I was in a marriage bed, but I was still not.
Yeah.
I was a little too uptight about anything like that.
So I still would have felt guilty.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So we need a Mormon.
We needed like a Mormon on the panel because they, they had like all the, they have all
the cool like loopholes.
Like the poop hole loophole is like, you don't break your virginity.
Soaking.
Yeah.
Soaking.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's not really sex.
Yeah.
Oh my gosh.
So let's put it in.
Let's wait.
Should we go met?
I'll say met.
Probably okay.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
If they're married, then yeah, it's one of those.
What is the picture of exactly you're moving?
It's a, it's a, it's a lady holding a peach.
Okay.
Has anyone seen that movie call me by your name?
Yes.
No.
What's that?
I can't look at peaches the same after that.
Right.
Right.
Just go watch the movie.
Okay.
All right.
Um, okay.
I'm a sexual attraction.
So just being attracted to someone.
Uh,
Oh hellbound.
It's like hellbound or hellbound just being attracted.
Just being attracted.
Not having sex.
Yeah.
I think just being attracted is very bad from not acting on it.
It's either it's at minimum very bad.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
So what I've heard is attraction isn't a sin, but acting on this.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Attraction is the temptation.
And it's more about like, it's also more about how it feels.
Like so.
Um, like if, like how, how wrong it kind of feels in that
purely culture kind of mindset, um, as well.
Uh, cause a lot of this is very subjective, obviously.
Um, okay.
So, uh, which one did I choose?
Homosexual sex.
So hellbound.
Hellbound.
Oh, yes.
Yeah.
All right.
Okay.
Um, oral sex.
Now look at this.
Sorry.
Look at this.
Oh my God.
Look at this image down here.
Oh.
What is that?
Wow.
That's a papaya.
Papaya.
Yeah.
That's a papaya.
So outside of marriage will say oral sex.
Oh, outside of marriage, that makes a huge difference.
That's very, very bad.
So.
Badson are very bad.
It's either bad or very bad.
Let's say bad.
I think bad son.
Yeah.
Okay.
And we'll just zoom in so everyone can get a good look at the.
And just so you know, it was only ever about like with penises.
There was never a conversation about oral sex for vaginas.
So like included in that.
I tried to be.
So I typed in man licking papaya because I tried to make it inclusive.
I actually appreciate.
I saw that.
I'm pretty sure it wasn't inclusive growing up.
Awesome.
Okay.
Kinky sex positions.
So we'll do this inside of marriage.
So I know some people are like, I would never do doggy style.
I think it's perverted or wrong or whatever.
I had, I had those conversations with people growing up.
So where would we put this image here?
I think probably okay.
Probably okay.
In the confines of marriage.
Yes.
Yeah.
It was in marriage.
I'd say okay.
So we got.
So we got probably okay.
But but be careful because there's like,
I wanted to emphasize the point that you never really feel like
something's.
Okay.
Like you just like, there's always a little bit of doubt.
Like what if something wrong?
Yeah.
Okay.
Group sex.
So this is the image I use for group.
Oh, help out.
Well, that's how that.
For sure.
Yeah.
That's a nice little group hug.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Awesome.
Sexting.
So.
Got someone under the sheets here.
Sexting.
Unmarried.
Unmarried.
Or even married.
Or pictures involved.
Or is it all.
Bad.
No, no pictures.
Just set just text.
Just like.
Bad.
Very bad.
That's probably bad.
I'd say like, that's to me, I, I would have been told like that's
kind of committing adultery.
Okay.
Like that would be your, your, your crossing a line that you've
already committed adultery.
That's what I would have been told.
Yeah.
Where would you put it?
Very bad.
Very bad.
Hmm.
Interesting.
But I mean, you don't have to put it on mine, but that's just what.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Interesting.
So you can put it.
Well, let's, I'll put, um, what about, uh, the next one is sending
nudes and I couldn't get a nude photo.
Just have a dude looking in a mirror, um, taking a selfie.
So.
Very bad.
Very bad.
Unmarried.
Then very bad.
Very bad.
Very bad.
Okay.
Um, heavy kissing.
Outside of marriage.
Probably okay.
Yeah.
I'd say.
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
Um, dry humping.
And I just got like a pile of sand here because all I remember from dry
humping is the rashes and the.
Maybe a little sin.
Baby sin.
Okay.
Little baby sin.
Uh, soaking.
So this is the, what you mentioned before.
Can someone explain what soaking is?
That's where, uh, uh, penis is in a vagina, but there's no
thrusting.
And then, uh, I think what the cool kids are doing is they have
other people like stand on the bed and like move the bed so that
you're totally stationary.
The people.
Penis and vagina is not moving, but there's, there's a lot of
things that you can do.
You can do that.
You can do that.
You can do that.
You can do that.
You can do that.
You can do that.
It's because you're totally stationary.
The people.
Penis and vagina is not moving, but there's, then there.
Getting.
Like group sex.
I mean, that's what the cool kids are doing.
I think.
I don't know.
It's like,
it's like,
it's the way you get around it.
So it's like you tripped and fell into your partner,
which is what.
And then,
and then you're not moving.
So you're not having sex and then someone else jumps on the
bed.
So it makes the movement of you guys moving.
So you're not in control.
I have to know that.
My upbringing would say that this would still be hellbound
because it's still genital sex.
Yeah.
I think very bad.
Very bad.
I think that still would have been considered hellbound
for me, but outside of the range or inside of the range.
I think it has to, well, it can't be high
than just premarital sex, surely.
Because you're still intercourse, but fuck you.
But that is premarital sex, right?
I think on the same level, yeah.
Yeah, it's, yeah.
Contraception, so this is something
someone brought up who I think was a Catholic
or maybe is a Catholic, but taking the pill
or using protection, let's pretend,
let's say like obviously before your,
maybe before you're married, just like,
you know, you're preparing for sex, I guess.
So I know my wife got caught hooking up with someone
when she was like 11 or 13 or something, really young.
And her mom's like, that's it, you're going on the pill.
And she went on the pill like straight away, just, you know.
But there's some people who believe that
even preparing like that is a sin.
Yes, I, well, see, I was told that contraception
is the same thing as having an abortion
and therefore the same thing as murder.
That's what I was gonna say.
It's not just a sin when it's preparation,
even if it is for purely contraceptive purposes,
some people still believe that it is a sin
because you're preventing that seed.
Yeah, what about condoms though?
Like, would that be?
That wouldn't be the same because what I was told
was that because you're preventing implantation,
that's like you're causing an abortion.
So like a condom wouldn't do that.
So that would be different.
So where would we put just like someone
using protection for protection's sake?
Is it like a meh or is it like a...
Mine would be bad, cause you've thought it out a bit.
I think meh.
I think it depends on the sex too,
cause like Catholics are anti, like sex is just
for procreation, so then you're like going against God's will.
So that's pretty bad.
I put it as bad.
Okay, wet dreams.
So I know that you don't have any control over it,
but I know that some people would feel guilty
about having a wet dream.
That guy looks like he is shitting his pants.
I typed in, a man wakes up,
a man wakes up shocked and in a wet bed,
and it just, this is what I'm up with.
So is that a meh or probably it's okay?
Or would you feel guilty if you had a wet dream?
It's one of those two.
I wouldn't put it any...
Yeah, I don't think you can control that, so...
And not just wet dreams, like if a girl has like a sexy dream
or something, you know, or...
Yeah, what qualifies the wet dream?
Like is it just a sexy dream?
Yeah, just like if you have a,
I guess if you have like a sexy dream, yeah.
Yeah, I still felt guilty.
Yeah, it feels guilty, but probably okay,
but be careful as in like the, you can't control it,
but you'd still never feel good about it.
Yeah, exactly.
I went to my church for prayer because of my sexy dreams.
Like in my dream. Oh, really?
And asked, like they like laid hands on me to like heal me.
Did you get rid of the, did you,
did you believe it was like demonic or like...
It worked, because I think I believed it.
I think I like, you know, I believed in the,
the psychology of it.
So for like two years, I used to have them every single month.
And then for two years, I didn't have any sexy dreams.
And I was like, thank God I'm like finally safe,
because I thought, my fear was they were so hot
that I, it made me want to do them.
So if I can feel myself from them and not think about it,
then I'm probably not going to, oh my God.
I think if I had told a small group leader
that I had had like a wet dream or like a sexy dream,
they would have said that it was a heart problem.
Like I'm not good with God in some way.
Like insure in some way.
Yeah.
Jeez.
Emily, were you in a Baptist church, should you say?
I was Southern Baptist.
Yeah. Okay.
So it's, it feels a bit,
I think it's a bit different how they approach things.
It sounds.
Um, okay, back to the list.
So, uh, giving a front hug.
So we used to have, okay, this is,
this is just a bit of a funny story,
but we used to have the Christian side hug.
You go up to your, the friends of opposite secretary church
and you give them the Christian side hug.
And that's so funny.
One of my friends, um, he was a Christian,
but he was just, he was a bit edgy.
And he goes, you guys, I hate the Christian side hug.
And he's like, I like the satanic front hug.
He grabbed me and just put our groins together and just,
and I was like, I like the satanic front hug.
And I was like, yeah.
Take what you can get, take what you can get.
So, uh, yeah.
So, so, so hug, so hugging, um, so hugging just front on,
is it probably a, okay.
How long is it lasting?
Yeah.
These people look like they're embraced for like a,
like they're enjoying it.
It's not like a goodbye hug.
That's a brilliant.
It's probably okay, but you got to make sure
that like you've established that you're not going to go
any farther than a kiss.
Like you got to specify that.
Upstairs and downstairs in contact.
Like, is it like this?
Like they're hugging like this, or are they like this?
Then, okay.
We're talking, yeah.
High school dancing where we're arms length apart.
Yeah.
Not like, not like this, but more like this.
Yeah.
Okay.
Got it.
Oh my God.
So like a myth?
I'd say probably okay, but be careful.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
It's something I don't think they would get mad at you
for actually, as long as you were in a relationship,
like it's okay, but they'd be like,
just be careful that you don't go any farther than,
than a kiss.
Like you'd get lectured about it,
but you wouldn't be told explicitly that it was a sin.
Our, our edgy high school rebellion,
a bunch of the guy friends that I had in high school,
we all hugged and like would kiss each other on the cheek.
And we got like pulled into the office at one point to be like,
all right, you guys like whatever you're trying to do,
you need to stop.
It's distracting.
And we're like, oh, sorry.
But like, yeah, for us, that was like edgy for like two dudes
to be hugging.
And then like we escalated to a peck on the cheek and like,
that's what got us in trouble.
One of my friends.
Okay.
One of my friends had very similar behavior
with his guy best friend.
You know, it's just like, I don't know,
it was like a weird bro love between them,
like a bromance and they were both camp counselors.
And one of them got told to go home
that he couldn't counsel the kids anymore
because that that activity was like too dangerous
to be around kids.
We had, we had gay chicken at my school,
which was like, you'd go in for a kiss.
And the first one to pull out was like the gay chicken, right?
But but everyone was doing it.
Like so everyone was running around just between the kiss
each other.
It was like a really weird time.
Okay.
And last two, let's get through these,
erotic fiction.
So, uh, women or men reading erotic fiction.
I would say bad center.
Yeah, it's bad.
I mean, yeah, bad.
It depends though, because for me in high school,
like Fulton, our stars would have been erotic fiction
to like a ninth grader.
So I don't know because nobody has a lecture on that.
The other thing is like, I guess it matters too on,
is it heterosexual or is it homosexual?
Because if it's homosexual fiction, go and help.
That's hellbound.
Yeah, 100%.
If it's heterosexual media, then, you know, just be careful.
Yeah, yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
Let's leave it.
Let's put it at the very best because it's the,
yeah, because of the homosexual aspect as well.
And last one is manual sex.
So fingering and hand jobs and things like that.
And I've got an Asian lady, it looks like,
holding a bunch of eggplants and smiling.
Okay, are they married or unmarried?
Unmarried, unmarried.
Okay.
Okay, I would say bad.
The copy is very bad, but we've had oral sex is bad.
Okay, we can put it at bad then.
Yeah.
I think men, because oral sex would be a step above that.
Should we bump up oral sex?
I think oral sex should be very bad,
and then hand jobs and all that bad.
Because, so what do we have as progressive Christians?
So hellbound is group sex and homosexual sex.
Okay, but not premarital sex in there?
We should put premarital sex as hellbound.
I think so.
I think that needs to escalate.
Yeah, those are like the top three for sure.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I feel like, I definitely feel like there needs to be like a tear above this.
Hellbound, but gay.
And then the gay stuff is definitely more, definitely.
Because premarital sex, you're committing the premarital sex part
if you have gay sex, but then you're bumping it up and out because it's gay as well,
and which is a no-no, right?
So like, yeah, it's a hard one.
As long as you're in a cis-hetero relationship,
it's never going to be as bad as it could be.
Yeah, exactly.
You could just make a whole different chart that's like all of these but gay
and just like put them all up.
And they all just go up one?
Yeah, yeah.
Awesome.
Well, at least we know where we're at.
I'm going to save that.
I'm going to download it.
Awesome.
And I'll share it with everyone.
But yeah, guys, so how did you,
how did everyone first learn about purity culture?
Let's jump into this discussion because we're already half an hour in,
which is just crazy.
That was fun.
When did you guys first learn about purity culture?
And welcome everyone who's in the chat.
I can see your comments and thank you so much for being here.
Yeah.
Oh, well, who wants to go first?
You can go first.
I mean, I was...
Yeah, go ahead.
Go ahead.
No, you go first, Jeremy.
I was raised a fundamentalist, but you know,
you never call yourself a fundamentalist.
The fundamentalists always are like,
no, like that other group is crazier than us.
So I was evangelical Lutheran.
So like everybody interacted with growing up was also evangelical Lutheran.
So like my frame of reference was just like, this is normal.
And then I went to the University of Minnesota,
which is a big 10 university, 60,000 students, public university.
And like the second or third night there,
my roommates like, dude, if I put a sock on the door handle,
that means I'm like having sex with my girlfriend.
And I was like, very cool.
I'm going to pretend like I am aware of this happening.
And so that was like the first time I was like, oh, like,
shit, was this like my upbringing not normal?
And then like I studied psychology.
So then I was like, oh, like everything about like my religious upbringing was
not based on science and like pretty unhealthy for me.
So it was like really my education was very late, like college.
And then like learning what should have happened.
And then reflecting back me like, oh gosh, like, yeah,
we did the opposite or like made it so much worse than it needed to be.
Yeah. I'd say for me, I kind of put the pressure on myself
because I found out when I was younger that everyone in my family
was pregnant when they got married.
So I just decided, okay, well, I don't want to do that.
Not because anyone told me to do that.
And then because I kind of made that decision,
when I got involved with youth group in the late 90s,
they were all talking about purity culture and we went to acquire the fire.
And they had the purity pledges for us to sign.
So it kind of already aligned with what I was thinking as far as
just not wanting to be pregnant when I got married.
So I just sort of was like, yeah, that's the route I will take.
And I stayed very firm in that belief.
And I didn't do anything wrong throughout my whole teenage years
as far as sex goes.
And everyone I dated, I was very honest from the beginning,
like I'm staying a virgin until I'm married.
And every guy I dated thought, oh, yeah, that's fine.
But they would try to push the envelope and get me to sort of cave.
And I met my husband at 20.
And I really wanted to kind of not stick to that decision.
Because I thought, oh, he's so great.
And we found our ways around that.
And it wasn't until just this past summer I realized, oh my goodness,
I don't think I actually was a virgin.
Because we found loopholes.
And I don't care, but anyways, but yeah.
I was the same in that.
My wife and I, I had slept with a couple of people prior to being with Amy.
But like a high school girlfriend and one night stand pretty much.
But then we waited until we were married to have sex.
But the shit that we did at that part of sex, like some porn stars don't do.
We were going, I feel like it's like, what is it that they'll call it?
It's like the hungry man dreams of eating a horse.
But the rich man thinks of what food he'll eat.
It was almost like that time in our life was funner than any other time in our life.
Because it was like it's like the naughtiness of it made it funner.
I don't know.
It's funny because I've say to him now since de-converting and deconstructing,
I'm like, I'm so sorry.
We should have just done it because we've been together 19 years now.
And he's like, why are you apologizing?
We had an amazing time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, we had to find ways.
But yeah.
Anyways.
Yeah.
I, I, I, go ahead.
Go ahead, Dr. Ben.
So I have a kind of unique experience.
I, so I was born in the 90s.
So like right when all that was just starting, but then it just kind of catapulted all of
like youth ministry up till when I was in like middle school and high school.
And, and I was raised fundamentalist evangelical.
And like we had kind of every year they would have at youth group,
like a sex talk and like your purity talk and like everyone I knew had purity rings.
People had like the purity pledges and all like, all that was so common.
Like I even remember talks with my parents about like, Hey,
you just shouldn't even date in high school because you're just going to be heartbroken
and just wait until you're actually ready to commit to a marriage and all that.
So like that was just how I was raised.
But thinking back on it is very weird because you'd have like these purity talks about like,
don't do the sex and stuff.
But like it never really occurred to me that it would even be an issue for me because I was
never attracted to heterosexual men.
So it was like, I don't feel this attraction for any of these people.
Like I don't get why people are out there having premarital sex and things because
I just don't get why any of this is appealing to them.
And my little gay ass didn't understand that being gay was a thing or being trans was a thing
because it turns out that as soon as like when I was in college and finally had met queer communities
and this was even before I like, because I started engaging in homosexual relationships
before I even knew I was trans.
But like the second I started learning that, oh, the feelings that I had in like middle school
and high school for girls, it was not that I just wanted to be their best friend.
I thought I just wanted to be their best friend.
I was like, hold on, this is what a crush feels like.
Like this is the feeling that everyone else had back in like in adolescence that I also had.
I just didn't know how to process any of it because I was told you can't, you can't be that.
And then now like unpacking not only that attraction, but also because testosterone has made me
interested in men, but not heterosexual men, only gay men, which is fitting because I am not,
I'm not even in the dating pool for heterosexual men.
It's a whole weird experience, but like, I don't know.
It's such a mind fuck for me and my parody culture journey.
But anyway, I guess I'll talk more about all my weird background later,
but that's kind of how I got into this and it's just been a whirlwind ever since.
I just want to say like you talk about that on your episode of Deep Drinks.
I mean, you came on, but it's so amazing to me that you're like,
okay, I'm gay. And then you start taking tea and you're like, actually, you know,
I like kind of everyone. And it was like, it's just, it's so, it's like, that must be
like so interesting, like such an interesting dynamic there.
Like it's such an interesting thing to happen.
I was just going to say when it came to purity culture, it's just like the water I swam in.
You know what I mean? It's like the natural evolution for the evangelical circles where
like you're just raised to be a good Christian and follow all these rules and then came purity
culture. And it was just like no different. It's just like all I knew. I thought that was normal.
I thought that was right. I thought it was appropriate. I bought it hook, line and sinker
all the way through. It was like the poster child for purity culture.
Had the pledge card had the ring, still very sexual and still had sex. And then I was just
riddled with guilt and shame and just like self deprecation and like self hate for like
believing this so strongly and being unable to uphold or adhere to it. It just made me hate myself
and took all the pleasure I could have had through my sexual experiences because A,
I was already doing something bad and then to enjoy it was even like doubly bad.
And they didn't realize until decades later what it robbed from me and how harmful and damaging it
was and how I'm so glad we're phasing out of that and teaching young people to do differently and
to do it better. And I will say, Dr. Ben, I was the same way we're like, I didn't know I was queer
growing up and I loved everyone. And I'm like, I'm just such a loving person. Like I just really
love all kinds of humans having no ideas like pansexual and like I'm just attracted to all the
genders and all the orientations. I'm like, I'm just such a loving person. I'm like, oh wait,
I want to fuck most people guys. I love that. I love that.
Emily, how about yourself? How did Purity Culture first manifest in your life?
You know, I have a really interesting, I think background compared to most evangelical or
fundamental people that I've met. I made the choice to enter the church when I was in middle school
and I had my family follow me. And so the presence of Purity Culture in my life was sort of a gradual,
sorry, my dog. Sorry, you guys didn't hear that. I'm just going to keep talking. Get behind me,
Satan. It was such a gradual crescendo and then day crescendo into college. And so high school
was just, it was blindingly loud. And I am to the point where I look back now and I'm like,
man, I took myself to Lifeway Christian bookstore and bought myself a Purity Ring like that.
I can't fathom that now. And I don't really remember when I snapped out of it. I think,
you know, you step outside of the bubble and you start getting more exposure to other people
and other experiences and lifestyles that you just kind of fade out of it. But I'm still
unearthing the consequences of it even now every day. Someone in the chat, I won't mention who,
but someone I know who's probably watching, they might have ducked out for a second, but
they are someone who I signed the Purity Certificate. So they printed a Purity Certificate
that I'll, like by themselves, I took initiative on by themselves. I was the small group leader
and myself and someone else signed the thing saying, I will wait till marriage to have sex and
they got like themselves a ring and everything like that. So, but they're happily fornicating now.
That's so funny.
Sex was so taboo for like the religious group I grew up in that like the purity culture stuff,
like when we became aware of it, like we're like, oh, that's weird. Like, why are they doing that?
Like, you shouldn't even be thinking about sex because like that's like how like fundamentalist
we were and then being like, but those people are fundamentalists. We don't, we're not fundamentalists.
They're the weird ones. Like, it was so bizarre looking back on it. Like, yeah, we just didn't
know literally anything.
Yeah, it's, it's, it's wild. How like, I interviewed someone who, they're part of a
Hasidic Jewish cult and they, their purity culture is like next level and they don't
learn about what sex is or where babies come from until weeks away from their marriage.
They, they don't know that a penis goes into a vagina. They don't know anything.
And, and there's like tragically, a lot of them, there were three cases of in New York
of there was this hotel that they all used for their wedding night, the next day
after the wedding night, you know, there were three cases of women throwing themselves off the
roof because they just were so traumatized by the, by the experience. And that's part of why,
like we laugh about it and we're laughing about because it's not about that, but about
purity culture in general, because it's cathartic, it's helpful, it's healing,
but this stuff can be very serious. Like this can, this affects, it affects my life even
to this day. And yeah, there's, there's a while where just to pivot from that to a little bit
about me, but the, the, I had so much shame and guilt around sex, pornography, the need to confess
to everyone. My wife and I started our relationship with me confessing to her every time I would
stuff up by looking at porn, like she was some sort of bishop and I was like,
I have made a mistake again. Um, like, please forgive, like, I just, it was not, and she was
like, please stop telling me. She's like, I don't care. Like, just, like, just move on with your
day. Like, I'm sorry. Like, please stop telling me. It's like, it's just annoying. Um, so, but
yeah, so, and that, that guilt and shame carried into our marriage when we got married. So we got
married and we would have sex and I would have anxiety around sex even after we were married.
And nine times out of 10, I would have anxiety before or after sex and it was horrible.
And even now, like, it's something I struggled with after 10 years. Like, I'll, I'll feel this
guilt, all this, this anxiety about, about it. Yeah, it's weird.
I was actually going to just say that I feel like purity culture affected me even more after marriage
than it did prior to marriage. Because yeah, I felt, even though like my husband and I before
we got married, we found those little loopholes and I still felt that tiny bit of guilt, but I knew
I was going to be spending the rest of my life with this person. So I kind of made it, like,
that's how I sort of made it okay in my mind. But after we got married, and I knew this is my
husband, everything's okay. Even in the act of having sex, I would be telling myself as it was
happening, it's okay, you're allowed to do this now, it's fine, even though we had, like, known each
other for two years and, but I would have to talk myself through it. And there were, I remember one
time, like, when we were newly married, after we were done, I was just kind of like, and my husband's
an amazing person, he was, he's never pressured me even before we got married. He never once
pressured me to have, I hate saying intercourse, but just for the context of this conversation,
I'll just say that he never once pressured me into having like actual intercourse prior to
marriage. But after we had like sex this one time, like, I just was like, oh my gosh, I think I even
cried, because I just was like, is this okay? Like, I was 22 when we got married, and we did have a
short engagement, because I was like, hey, we're engaged, let's do it, I want to get married,
I've been waiting for this, right? But it took a lot of just like, talking myself through it,
even though I was so excited, and I had a really healthy view of sex, because my mama, like, I'm
the one who really put this pressure on myself, my mom never put it on me. And she always wanted me
to like, view sex as a really amazing thing. So I feel like it affected me more after marriage.
Wow. And yeah, so I, yeah, that's just one of the, I made a couple of notes in preparation for this.
And I also felt like the need to confess. So I would even go tell my mom, like, we had sex,
and she's like, it's fine, you're allowed, you're married now, like, it's totally okay.
And then one time, they, like, my parents even took us to Mexico with them and
treated us to this beautiful resort. And the way that the hotel was the places where they were
above us, and we were below, and I didn't want to have sex. And the room was gorgeous. And,
and I remember sitting on the beach with my mom, and she's like, these rooms are designed for you
to have sex, have sex with your husband. And I was like, okay, but I was like, you're above us.
And she's like, I don't care. But it was just, I had to wrestle with this whole. Yeah, so it,
it's hard, like, to be like, it's okay to do this now. So we've been married for almost 17 years
now. So I'm kind of over it. I've worked it through, but those early years were tough.
Yeah, your mom is in the chat, I think, as well. Yeah, she is. I'm a big fan. I'm a big fan of
your mom. She's cool. Yeah. There's been times where she's literally told me, like, we've had
arguments or not arguments, but just she'll even say, when was the last time you and Brian had
sex? And I'll say, it's been a while. She's like, you need to go, like, have and so she's saved.
She's been a great advocate for us. But yeah, awesome.
I got the $2 super chat from River City. Thanks for supporting my purity journey. So
yes, that was the person he added himself now. He was the person who I signed the purity ring for.
Is it true? Is it true River City film that you threw the ring, like the water or something?
Like you, I can't remember the story fully, but you should tell it in the chat 100%.
I want to share everyone a quick clip as we just a quick clip from every young man's battle.
So every young man's battle is a book that I think is cancerous to the mind.
I kept it just, I didn't want to keep it, but I decided to keep it. But it had an
accompanying DVD that went with it. And I found it on YouTube. And I used to watch this back in
the day. And this one little interview, this one little section I'm about to show scared me a lot
and made me think, I remember, I remember talking to my secular friends about, I've got an addiction
to pornography or I just can't stop. Like I'm just like, I'm filled with lust. And they're like,
what are you talking about? Like, dog, everyone like watches porn. What are you talking about?
And I'm like, oh, and I was like, I said to someone, it was a joke, but I was like, I just don't want
to end up behind a pub, giving someone a hand job or something like that. Like it was a joke.
But the concept of, you know, your pornography, masturbation, pornography will like, you'll
turn into this like monster where you will, you'll lose everything. And it's almost like a heroin
addiction. So I, so, and that, I think that fear comes partly from this clip. So let me show you
this clip from every Young Men's Battle DVD. And let me know if you can hear it. Anyone hear it?
It started out in magazines and movies. And then with sexual partners watching pornography.
It just grew into something that I was unable to stop.
Once you pick up the pornography, you won't be able to set it down. You won't be able to
leave it alone. It's something that it's across the room. You're going to glance at it and keep
looking at it. And it just grows. Your desire for the pornography increases to a point that
it becomes uncontrollable or unstoppable. And the decisions you make once involved with it,
I mean, can ultimately change your entire life.
You lose your family. You realize how much you hurt. And I used to,
I used to hear my mom say, sorry, that how much she hurt inside. And I never realized how much it
was until I spent the last year not being able to see her talk to her. And now that I understand
what that pain that I caused her is like to feel, it makes you want to change more than anything
I can think of is you lose someone you love over something you've done. It hurts not only them,
but you. And pornography played the major role in losing my family, my friends.
There's a lot of people right now I can't even call. They were showing us the phone
and he said you can call family or friends. Right now I have no friends that I would
want to call. And I have no family to call.
And it's like, oh my gosh. So Nicole, how do you feel about having destroyed the lives of all
of these helpless men profiting off of their misery? Nicole, I feel like I've lost their lives.
Their family won't speak to them. Yes. Like even the phrase like he prostituted his body,
he's completely bankrupt. It's such an exaggeration or extreme to like instill fear because as I
watch as I don't know anything about that book or his journey, I'm like, I want to see the rest of
his life. I just want to see his general decision making skills as a whole because it's easy to
pick one thing and make porn the evil thing when it's like, it sounds like he's just an unhealthy
person who makes unhealthy decisions, but they pin it all on porn or something sexual. And so it's
just like, it's so unfair and such a biased perspective and obviously has like horophobia
all woven into that because I think sex work is amazing and incredibly healing can be. So yeah,
so many so many triggers with that. Yeah, and I should have said extra trigger warning for that,
but it's not that like, there's no way he ended up where he was because of pornography.
Like obviously it's probably a bunch of other things that went along with it,
but he's associating that all to like this rush with pornography or whatever.
There's definitely a conversation to be had about responsibility around
like how much like there are people who get and probably Jeremy, you can probably talk about this
about a little bit, but responsibility around like people who feel like they're addicted to
pornography or they can't stop or something like that. But the idea that it turns you into this
like homeless, like drug addicted monster is so far like beyond the realm of reality
that it just it's infuriating. And that's why I call the book the cancer of this.
I wrote a scathing review on them, Goodreads, because yeah, it really it really messes you up,
but Jeremy, can you touch on a little bit? Well, it's it's just like blatantly propaganda.
First of all, right? Like that didn't happen. But also, just like the fear mongering in
purity culture, like you're going to get pregnant, you're going to get an STD, you're
gonna probably die from that STD because it's not going to get treated because they're not
going to tell you how to actually get treatment or anything like that. So it's like this fear
around like losing control or like you're gonna go to the porn store and then you're
going to start buying cigarettes and then you start doing drugs and then you're gonna be like
it was always like this horrible thing. And like porn's not addictive, right? Like in orgasm,
you can't get addicted to your own orgasm, it just feels great. Like your body likes it,
it's wired to like it. So you're not fighting your porn addiction, you're fighting like your
natural body, you're fighting a very natural system in your body. And that's why so many dudes,
like as a male therapist, I saw mostly guys with porn addiction, so many guys were struggling
because they're told it's an addiction in the 12 step model, which is also like nonsense and
isn't based on good science. So like it's this 12 step model of like sobriety is nothing, like
right, no porn, bounce your eyes. If you see a woman in a tight outfit, like you're not supposed
to look at her, like that's the like porn people's like stance is like not just pornography, but
like any lust. And so I think it's, it's, they get taught like a bad, a bad definition of addiction
and then like a bad definition of what sexuality can be like and when it's healthy and then like,
you know, throw in some misogyny and blame the women and like, you know, a bunch of other
unhealthy stuff on top of it. And like it feels like this very uncontrollable thing because
it's just so skewed, like it's not based on anything, it's not a realistic stance to be taking
as like, this is what healthy is. If you're maniacal about controlling your lust, like that's not
healthy. So then they come in feeling not healthy. Nicole has this like amazing perspective on this
all. Nicole, you say that like, you're, you're like, you see this just like something that like
blesses someone, like it's like, you know, you're sharing yourself, you have an only fans,
you share yourself and for you, it's a really positive and affirming thing. You say that you've
come home from church to your sexuality. And I definitely think it's that's a, that's a,
that's a healthier way to, to engage. And I think that if you are going to watch pornography or
masturbate or whatever, there are healthy ways to do it. You don't have to, you don't have to,
you shouldn't be lying to your spouse or things like that, you have conversations, you should be
engaging in these things. Like with anything like what they said, like m&ms can get addicted to alcohol,
like we just, we do sober month sometimes or sober week on deep drinks, because it's good
to have breaks, you know, there's too much of a good thing can be a bad thing because you just
enjoy it too much, I guess. But Dr. Ben, what were you saying? Well, I was just going to bring up
the point that, that you end up getting into potentially some even more ethically sticky
behavior when you're so opposed to, to porn. I mean, sure, there's like, you can go into problems
within like the porn industry itself, but like, but let's just talk about people like
on only fans that are, they're doing it for themselves, they are consenting to the, the
content that they're making, they want to be making this, like you're taking somebody saying that you
cannot engage in this consensual activity where you are purchasing something somebody
chose to make and wants you to purchase. And now you have people potentially looking into
like pictures and things that are not consensual, like they're not viewing consensually, and they're
potentially engaging in more dangerous behavior. So I think there's definitely like a lot of,
a lot worse outcomes that you get from telling people to not engage with pornography.
And it's so interesting, like we tried, someone wrote this in the chat earlier about like, when
you try to take one role and apply to all humans from all walks of life with who are wired also
differently. It's just baffling. So for example, you know, I was taught in my evangelical upbringing
that like anything sexually deviant would ruin your marriage, would ruin your life. And I find
actually the more sexually deviant things to do, like threesomes, group sex, hiring an escort has
actually brought me closer to the people I date, because it brings me alive. And I feel connected
and I feel in love. It has the exact opposite effect of what I was told my entire life. But
it wasn't until I gave myself permission to do the things I've been taught to fear the most
that I learned that about myself. And so there's so many things we can be prevented from even
knowing about ourselves because of purity culture. And that is harmful, because I've unleashed whole
new love levels of pleasure, of closeness, of intimacy, because I've been willing to brave
the fearful frontier. And it's been so healing. And that's why I do think my only fans is an
incredibly healing place, because in my space, all of you is welcomed, your kinks and your fetishes,
your fears and your hopes, like I want your whole self to be welcomed, so you can reach
new levels of freedom and pleasure in your life. There's, and that's that's amazingly said, I wasn't
going to bring this up because I didn't have the study on hand, but I had heard of a study that
looked at like sexual assault, when nations made pornography legal, and those sexual assaults went
down. And someone, Alan Animas said, fun fact, increased porn consumption correlates with reduced
sexual assault, which I thought was pretty interesting. I don't know how true that is.
Don't you go fact check me on that one, go fact check me on that one. But yeah, it's definitely,
you know, there are definitely, it's a fine line, obviously. And there's also another conversation
to have around consent in regards to, you know, people being coerced into the industry and stuff,
horrible, disgusting sex trafficking stuff. But what you're saying, Nicole, is that is why I'm
a huge advocate for you is because what you seem to approach it very in a very healthy way.
And I really appreciate that. One last clip I want to show, huge trigger warning for this one,
but this is the clip I want to show. The last, this is the home swing that every young man's
battle tries to give. It's an interview with Ted Bundy, the serial killer. And it's his last
interview, and they showed it. So here we go. Get ready for some absolute sophistry. Ready?
Listen, I'm no social scientist, and I haven't done a survey. I mean, I don't pretend that I know
what John Q. Citizen thinks about this. But I've lived in prison for a long time now.
And I've met a lot of men who were motivated to commit violence just like me. And without exception,
every one of them was deeply involved in pornography without question, without exception,
deeply influenced and consumed by an addiction to pornography. There's no question about it.
The FBI's own study on serial homicide shows that the most common
interest among serial killers is pornography. Did you know that the most common
substance used for cellular respiration in all serial killers is oxygen?
Yeah. And all of those people that have used oxygen,
every person has every... Do you know when you're convicted of murder,
you'll say whatever the fuck you can to get off? I'm sorry, but I don't want my porn statistics
to come from a serial killer. Every person that has consumed pornography will die or has already
died. So therefore, it's important to kill them. It's like what you will find. If you're looking
for it, you'll find it. It's just like what's your angle, what's your agenda, what's your propaganda
mission, you're going to find a way to promote it. It's insane. Also, is it possible that people
just watch porn whether you're a serial killer or not? And it's more likely that you do than you
don't? Of course, that's the common thread. They can't study. You're probably into some
graphic pornography as well, which is what he goes into. They can't study porn anymore. At a
research institution level, studying porn is really hard because there's no control group,
because you can't find enough people in the study who haven't watched porn. Right, it's something
like 98% of the population identifies watching porn more than three times, I think, as the cut
off. So it's like, right, there's three times in their life. Yeah, like studying porn is so hard.
And that's why the Christian propaganda stuff is so bad because they're going to say, well,
these people, whatever. And it's like, no, that group doesn't exist. They're either just lying or
you're making up those statistics. This is me needing to have studies in front of me, but not
having them. But I remember something that was like, it was like 88% of men have watched pornography
in the last six months or the last six or two months. This is why I did the study. But women,
it was only like 20 or 30% less. It was like 50 to 60% of women have watched in the last six months.
So it's like, it's, it's, there's definitely women tend to not like it as much as men, it seems,
in the statistics, but, but yeah, they still seem to watch it.
Or women who admit, I would have did in a study back, because even back in my pure days,
I still watch on occasion, but you could never have gotten that truth out of me. And I would have
absolutely said in a research study, I do not watch it. So I think there's a lot of shame
in secrecy. And I don't think those numbers are fully accurate.
Well, and, and there's a lot of, like, there's a lot of factors related to the target audience
for a lot of porn. I think like the majority of porn is targeted towards a male audience.
And so you might not find as much that women are interested in because there's just less
available that appeals to them. I have had experiences where I've tried to show,
I'm trying to think, am I crossing a line here? I'll say partners pornography before. And, and
it's like the stuff that I'm like, I'm trying to find a clip they might like, but everything that I've
like, that I like, I've saved or whatever is like, is very male centric focus, like you're not,
you're not seeing much of the, the, the whole, the whole scene, you're just seeing very focused
areas, you know what I mean? So it's like, I'm like, oh, and it's like, and it's like, this
isn't going to do anything for me. I was like, I can see why. And I'm like, and I'm like, look,
I'm like, damn it, nothing is like, nothing is, there's no, I don't have a, like, I don't have
girl porn in my, you know, and this is why I make what I make. I got you with it. I got you.
If you're not a book of fairy erotica, I don't want you.
I, I enjoy like, the, the, the novels. So I would, would you guys consider that porn?
I think like reading or would that be porn?
Well, it depends. Are you, are you masturbating when you like read them? Or like, think about,
you know, like, I think about my, like, my husband.
Okay. So like into the, yeah, but like, it makes me all like, whoo.
Yeah. Yeah. See, I think that counts, you know, it's like anything that enriches your sexuality.
Yeah. Okay. So then, yeah, I guess then, yeah, I've, because I, I, I, I listened to like, I've
listened to that deep. I don't know if I can promote, I'm not promoting it, but I've done a
trial of deep, I think it's called deep sea. And it's like, I've heard of that. They, they, they,
they read it to you and not read it, but it's like acting it out to you. It, yeah, textual or
wrong. Yeah. Yeah. And I'll just be doing things around the house and I'll have my earbuds in
and I'm like, okay, I need to stop. Grab your husband. It's really good. And it's, and it'll
tell you like, like it'll, it's like seven minute clips and then it'll, it'll actually give you
like where the, the peak point is and it's really like intense. And then it's like, I'll just be
cleaning my kids rooms and I'll be like, okay, I need to turn this off. Because it's, for me, I'm
someone who's like, I need that build up in my mind. I don't know if I'm someone who's more of a
visual person because like, I'm going to be like, I'm not lying to you guys because I have anything
to hide. I've actually never seen any visual of, of porn. Like I'm, I'm being 100% people have said
I've lied online because I've said, but I have read books and I've listened to that stuff. But
I do enjoy the, like the books and the reading and the, in my brain. So I guess if that's
considered porn, then yes, I have consumed it. And I enjoy it. Yeah.
And it's no shame. You don't have to have like looked at.
Yeah. And, and preparing for, to, to like, preparing for this panel, I've, I've talked,
sorry, if you can hear that thing, I've talked to my husband the other night about this, because
I was like, should we watch it? And he's like, he's like, I don't know. I think cause a lot,
like he's like, you can, but a lot of porn is like, for, like you were saying, for, for men,
it's just like the boom, like right to it. And he's like, I don't know if you would enjoy it
necessarily. So I said, well, yeah, I like,
You guys subscribe to Nicole's only fans.
Now I know Nicole. So I feel like, oh, that's Nicole. I got you.
But I'm funny. Nicole, I was going to say, since some, we've kind of got to know each other,
I've gone from seeing, because I used to follow you on Instagram. I see you images of like,
Oh yeah, like, you know, hot girl, pretty girl, like, you know, just like, I just see, like,
that's the part of my brain that said, now I see you. And I'm like, fuck yeah, Nicole. Like,
yeah, you're rocking it. Like it's, you've become like, you've gone into the friend zone in my head
where I'm like, yeah, like, I'm like, I don't know. I'm like, I'm like, cheering you on on this,
on the sidelines, like, you get it. Yeah. Like, so it's funny how my brain is changed. Thank you.
Yeah. While we're still on the porn topic, just for a second, for I, I've talked with
trans women about kind of the different experiences, like between trans men and trans women. And
I cannot speak for trans women at all. So purely from my experience as a trans man,
um, it's, it's very interesting how many trans guys will watch like POV porn because of the
fact that you, it's actually more satisfying than a lot of like, in person activity, because you
can control what anatomy your brain sees. And so you can, you can choose, uh, what, what you would
want your own anatomy to be like in that certain situation, how you would use it, etc. Um, which
is very, it gives me a lot of euphoria and a lot of other guys euphoria too, because then,
because I will just, in real life, I will ignore that part of my body. Like I,
like, I like the way it feels not in those, like not in, uh, not being used by somebody else,
if that makes sense, like, uh, because it just doesn't, it just doesn't work with my brain. So
having the ideal anatomy for what my brain would want is really helpful. And so that's where, uh,
porn is really helpful for trans people. Yeah, that's, that's super interesting.
That's so beautiful. I feel like I, so I recently discovered VR porn and it's like that. It's POV,
you can pick the body, um, the genitals that you have. And I sometimes joke, I have an invisible
penis. And I was surprised that when I put on this headset and picked a, a body with a penis,
like it did something for me. Um, and it, it was healing for me. And it named something I've always
felt, but I've never put words to. And, um, I love that we have more options like that. So Dr. Ben,
thank you for bringing that up. I think, I love that this has become like a, um, porn hour,
definitely. But, um, and the, uh, there's, there's a whole, there's a whole group of
ex evangelical dudes who will want to watch like strap on. Oh yeah. When I was a Christian
counselor, like, am I gay? Am I straight? Like, oh yeah, that's the big one. Or like, uh, the,
the question is like, is, um, yeah, there's lots of questions like that. The, the, I'm, I'm different
to everyone I think in this, this, well different to the people who have spoken on this. I don't
actually like to visualize, visualize myself in the porn. I don't like to pretend I am the person
engaging in the porn. I like to pretend I'm in the corner of the room touching myself behind it.
Um, like, uh, uh, like, you know, like, I like to watch other people have sex and see what they're
enjoying. Like I'm very, I did this like kink test that was like 20 minutes, like a kink test online.
And I like, I've voyeurism for like 90%. Yeah. I like to, I like to watch other people engaging
in it. I don't like, like, in fact, I think I would think if I was ever in a group setting,
I would prefer to, um, be watching more than engaging. It's, it's, I'm super weird. Like,
I don't know a lot of friends who are, who like that. Um, I'll be in the center of the page. I'll be
the exhibition. I think like, but that's part of the issue around like having good education around
stuff like this because research is so far behind because we just like get in, try and get it in
research grant at a public university to study something like this. So it's like the Christian
groups are way ahead and putting out all this propaganda because they have their own publishing
houses and they'll put it, like, it doesn't have to pass peer review. So like to get good, like,
peer reviewed information around like what are, what's the trans community looking at? What's
the LGBTQ community looking at? Like we just don't have that information I'm working with
when I work with clients now who are in one of those minority communities. It's like, well,
you know, here's our best guess, but I can't tell you any research because it just doesn't exist
right now. There needs to be, there needs to be some, some, I think some conversations,
some studies and conversations around how to engage with pornography in a relationship
that is like healthy because it's very easy to especially in a long-term relationship to just
to, to go to pornography is like the easy, you know, get you fixed and kind of move on like
explore your sexuality or have some fun and move on with your day. And then it's really easy to
lose that intimacy with your partner. And I think it becomes work to kind of, to, to have a balance
there where you can still have fun and not everything's full of drama. But, but the, the
information that's online is either, is either like, it's either one extreme or the other. But
the main, the, the extreme that I see a lot of the time is like porn will make you Ted Bundy,
like that's the, like porn will ruin your life, like ruin your marriage. And, you know, so there
needs to be, there's definitely a balance that needs to come there, I think, and some conversations
around like, how do you, how like, there are some, and there's no shame, like there are no shame
even in this group of like, there may be, people might not be comfortable watching pornography in
a relationship and that's totally okay as well. Like that might be where they're at or what they,
that's just how they want to live their relationship or whatever. But
there definitely needs to be some conversations around them, I think. I think it's, it's something
important that hasn't been studied enough, like you said, Jeremy. Let's move on to some purity
culture horror stories. And I wrote a little comment just before we move on to that about,
once you start wearing shoes, it's hard to walk down the street without them. And that's the,
the concept of like pornography, right? People say like, Oh, you'll start watching pornography
or you start masturbating and then you won't be able to, you'll be addicted to it and you want
to do it. It's like, well, am I addicted to shoes? Am I addicted to like coffees from like the coffee
shop? Like, what, what am I, you know, like what, what level do you start, you know, I mean, like,
just, I don't know. Okay. Yeah. So some, so some purity culture horror stories. What have we got?
I want, let's, let's, let's get some, the dankest of horror stories. Who's got the best
horror story from when you're in purity culture?
Mine's not the best. It's not the funniest. But I think, I think everyone's hesitant to start.
So interesting things like,
so I, of course, like, when I was in college, I met like, I tried to date people a few different
times, like I tried to date some men. And it just like, I was never really interested.
But something that like really bugs me about it. And this has roots in purity culture, but it
happens even outside of religion. But I frequently see people like joking on the
internet about like, how much they hate their partner or like, especially it's usually women
that say like, oh, my husband's so terrible. Like, I don't love him. Like, they'd be like,
joking about it. But it's like very hostile. And I think that's number one, not very healthy to do
for any partner. Like, if you have dirty laundry, like in your marriage or whatever, handle that
off of Facebook, you don't need to be on Facebook, trash talking your spouse. But like, what it taught
me was that like, as the female in the relationship, like, you're not expected to be happy. No one
cares how you actually feel. So I went into relationships with men thinking, oh, well,
I don't actually really want this. But I guess this is what it's supposed to feel like. And so I
stayed in relationships like that knowing that I had no desire to be there. And I ended up
like in a relationship with someone who probably if I was a heterosexual female, it would have been
the perfect relationship for me, except for the fact that he wasn't a Christian. So like, that was
the one downside with him. But but like, he was getting a masters in history, like he was great
to talk to like, like, we're, we're really good friends, like we had a really good time.
The problem was like, I was not at all physically compatible with him. And like, I just could not,
I could not move from like, hey, we're just hanging out. So like, anything more physical,
I would feel super, super awkward doing that. And it turns out is because I was a raging homosexual.
I didn't know that. But like, like that whole horror story, just like being being put into these
relationships, that like, you're not expected to get any satisfaction at all. And I feel like
that's a common experience for anyone assigned female, or anyone that's red female in the church,
that like, and why we see so much trauma, especially among women in the church, because
they get into these relationships, like even for years in these marriages, that like, they might
not know that it's okay to not like, to walk away from something they have no feelings for, and
where it's just not healthy for them. So that was, that's kind of my horror story. It's not funny
or out there. But I thought it's important. Yeah, I can bounce off of that. Because like,
I thought of one, because I'm trying to give horror stories before we hop down. But one is like,
I never was given an orgasm the entire 12 years I was married to a man, right? And that was part of
me being ingrained as a woman, my pleasure is not a priority. And, and though, and he knew I never
faked it, it was a topic conversation was a huge point of contention. And I'd be like, can you imagine
having sex with me for a decade and never getting off? He'd be like, yeah, that would suck. And that
as far as the conversation would go, and it wasn't until after I got divorced, and this was just a
few years ago, that I finally had the realization and the courage to demand pleasure, that I will
not date you if you do not give me orgasms. And the only way to know if someone can give me an
orgasm is by having sex with them before marriage. So like, everything I was taught no longer fit
the life and the context I was in. And even another like horror story is like, I didn't know what
consent was until five years into my marriage. It was 30 years old. When I learned from women,
my new girlfriend saying, Oh, we say no to our husbands all the time. And I go, wait, what?
That you're you can say no. And they're they were horrified. But for five years, I never once said no
because he didn't know I was allowed to say no, I haven't taught it as my job as a dude as a wife,
my duty to fulfill his pleasure at any moment. And so just like I look back at like the first three
decades of my life, and so much was taken from me. And I had such little agency over my own body,
and my own pleasure that it almost feels like the work that I do is just a recovering and a
reclamation of like my body, my pleasure, I am priority now. And that's part of what my only
fans is is like, it is first and foremost for me. And then you all get to enjoy it as a byproduct.
But that was born as a result of the harm from pure to culture.
I think to piggyback off of something that Nicole said, my perception in the church was always that
marriage or partnership for a man was something of attraction and for women with something of
calling. So for me, I dated a lot of men because I felt like together we could be a force for God,
even if I wasn't necessarily attracted to that person. But then there's always the phenomenon
of, you know, the pastor standing up on Sunday morning and saying, you know, and there's my
wife in the front row, see how God can bless you when you're faithful to him. And she's like super
hot. And in my church, you would just see not to reduce things to looks because there's more
than looks, but I would just see these Norwegian models walking around with these absolute bag of
stick guys. And I'm just like, it's because the women feel like it's an obligation, but the men
are picking based off of looks. And they think that they are owed something. They think that they're
owed an attractive mate because they're men of God. And I just thought that that was so interesting.
And yeah, yeah, totally. I relate to that. And I think, well, like, that's patriarchy,
first and foremost. Right, right. Like the the Abrahabic religion, so like Islam, Judaism,
and Christianity all are coming from a patriarchal perspective. Like one of the big things with that
lack of information and this idea around like women have a duty in the marriage. Like that's part
of the reason abuse is so bad in the church, because we have these these women who are taught to
be ashamed of their sexuality. And so then when they're abused, like they've done something wrong,
homosexuality is this shameful thing within the church, because if you're a male abused by your
male priest, then you're ashamed of what happened to you and you don't come forward. And so like,
that's why like Google whatever religion you grew up in, Google that and abuse, and you're
gonna find hits on it because every single religion has these abuse scandals, because it's set up for
abuse to happen. Like, it's a feature, not a flaw. And like, that's a shitty thing about religion
that I think people don't like just call it out often enough, like we're like, oh, a few bad apples,
like, nope, that's the whole system. Yeah, I remember writing a story about how to get a husband
to stop abusing you. And it was to get on your knees and pray in front of him. Dear God, please
convict this man. And then the story even showed the husband continued to beat her. But eventually,
after multiple times of praying and multiple abuses, he eventually was convicted to stop. Like,
that was like example given. This is how you stop it. Let yourself keep being abused until he's
somehow convicted is exactly said it's a feature, not a flaw. Yeah, it's mind blowing how this is
normal and this is accepted. But like, I'm the groomer because I'm trans. And like, where's the
problem? Really, where the problem? Sure. Okay, keep telling yourself that. Yeah, there's a there's
let me just show everyone a meme. This is meme, meme minute with on deep drinks. Let me just quickly
share the screen. meme minute on deep drinks. But there's this meme. This is not exactly the meme,
but it's like, it's like this, something along the lines of generation will start a revolution.
Really, your generation can't even decide if you're male or female or eat meat without tears in
your eyes and able to work 40 hours a week and play cod on consoles with controllers. And it's
like this, this isn't the exact meme. But the meme bothered me so much because it's like,
because, because like it was the original one was something about how like true men have like,
disappeared or whatever. And I was like, dog, you used to like, come home and like beat your wife
and like drink and like she never had an orgasm and she just grit her t three sex whole time.
And you're too much of a pussy to be able to talk about your feelings that you have to drink
yourself stupid. Like that generation was fucked up in like so many ways that just aren't recognized.
It's like, it's like, you know, I smoke and drink and you know, bro, you can't you're too much of a
pussy that you can't even talk about how you're feeling like shut the fuck up. That generation
bothers me so much. Well, that generation had had major abuse issues that generation cheated all the
time. It was just before cell phones. So they got away with it way more often. And like, yeah,
that's yeah, they just pretended like they had no problems. Like that that's all that was and
the only feedback they wanted. And by they I mean, like, straight white man essentially.
The only feedback they got was supportive, because that's all they would tolerate. Like
imagine if people felt safe to tell them like, hey, I don't want to be in a relationship with you.
But instead they were in these institutions that forced them to like, be married at like 19 to
some random dude in the church because he was a godly man, because otherwise you'd be without a
job and like unable to support yourself. Like, if they had the ability to say, Hey, I actually don't
want to be in this relationship. Like, yeah, the generation will look a whole lot different. But
that wasn't tolerated back then. And it's just it's just people suffered and didn't
and you didn't know about it. That's all it was.
And that's why I remember my church a pastor somehow like, Oh, the divorce crisis. And I'm
like, and it was all bad. And like, you need to make sure you stay married. And I went up and
talked to him after saying, but isn't a good thing because we're finally at a point where
like a lot of women can leave and finally make it on their own because the economy is like,
maybe that's why there's more divorces, we have more options and it's safer. And like,
they're like, Oh, never considered, you know, it's like, they're just so brainwashed to think
one thing, they cannot see it from another perspective and how there's probably a reason
why a lot of us are leaving marriages that weren't for our good. And we finally can have
the option to make it out and not be completely destitute.
The brainwash in not to completely show religion, because I think there are, you know,
I think I love my religious friends and everything. But sometimes religions have some
do some really, really, have some really bad ideas. But just to it seems to be the brainwrote
or the, the, you know, bizarre universe that some religions seem to operate in is just
whack to me. I recently had a conversation with this guy called Masud, who's running his own
version of a calm and he's a Muslim. And he was trying to explain to me how the verse
Quran 434, which talks about husbands being able to beat their wives would actually reduce
domestic violence if it was put into law. So domestic violence reduces domestic violence.
Like I couldn't like the mental tricks that that you do in regards to religions and beliefs
and things like that is crazy, I think. And it's just something that I think it's good to have
these conversations to get away from all of that. Or at least bring it all out. Yeah.
Statistics and good research like takes all that away, right? So like apologetic bias.
And then you're like, oh, hey, but actually when we let women speak up or when we have a city
that has good resources and we have social workers and we have shelters for women, like
they're much healthier and like that improves the well being. And like,
so when you have good recent, like I being a Christian for so long, because it took me a
long time to de convert, like it was like, right, all those mental gymnastics. And like,
I was doing therapy as a Christian and being like, okay, but like, that's not good for your
relationship. So like, we have to reinterpret this verse this way for it to make sense,
because it needs to match the research. And it was like, it is just all these mental gymnastics
to make it work. Yeah. Yeah, it's, it's, it's very wild. Let's move on to unless anyone's got
another story and all you do. Oh, I was going to just, I think, I don't know if any of you went to,
well, whoever's married, but went to marriage conferences and got some crazy marriage. I
feel like one of my horror stories came from a marriage conference at our church that we went
to. And it always comes to mind, we, and I think a lot of people were really shocked by this. And
I consider this a horror story, because I just think it was horrible. But the guy that was there
preaching and doing this conference, he told everyone in the, in the audience, congregation,
whatever, that if they had ever in their life, one time ever masturbated, they were gay, because
they, I'm dead serious, because they basically had sex with themselves. And
it could have hit, heard a pin drop. And I remember, we, I'm so gay. So very gay then.
It's a logic jump for me. Yeah. And it was the place was full. And we were just all like,
we were looking, I remember looking at my husband, and we were there with some friends and we were
all just kind of like, what is like, what are the words coming out of his mouth? Like he was
coming down on just how horrible it was to masturbate and just how awful it was. And he was
just like basically just reprimanding everyone, tearing a strip off of them. And I was not someone
who had really ever like, I wasn't, I didn't engage in that, but I had obviously done it
because everyone's done it. And I was like, what a horrible thing to put on someone who
struggled with it or just to put the shame, not that I thought anything was wrong with it, but
just to walk away from that. And just to put, I don't know, it was just something that I thought.
But don't you know that the guy who said that also then? Like, exactly. I thought, yeah, like,
what are you exactly, but just hear me's good research and statistics to come in and help
you. Yeah. Yeah. So I just thought people are probably like, how are people leaving this tonight
feeling and talking to their spouse. And so that was, I don't think we went back the next
night after that, because he was very much in the wrong. So yeah, that was something that, yeah,
I wanted to just share because yeah. Those church marriage retreats from like, where it's like a
youth pastor and his wife leading them are like, full of bad information. Like 23 and they got
like the cool little skinny jeans and like, yeah, yeah. So Ben, sorry, what are you saying, Emily?
I was just going to say really quick, my story is very short, but it relates to the youth pastor
thing. And I think it'll really help color this conversation. So my brother, who's given me permission
to share this when he was at our summer camp that we all went to as kids, our youth pastor taught
like the sex talk. And he informed everyone that when performing sex performing, sorry, when
sexing your wife, when having sex with your wife, you are not to touch her bikini zones.
And this is a full grown man. I just want to put it out there that there are men who are having sex
with their wives and not touching their bikini zones. Wow. Wait, so they are they just like kind
of guarding themselves in like hands? I think one hand on the mattress, other hand on the mattress
near the head, because it's in missionary, obviously. Yeah, anything else is sort of like a
movement. Yeah. Yeah, you know, you know what? Like everything else might be debauchery, but
missionary does the trick. Like the missionary is a good position, I think. Like I think missionary is
cool. It gets a lot of it gets a lot of shame. It gets a lot of gets everyone says is boring. I
think it's like it's a fun position. Like I think it's you know, it's like vanilla ice cream.
It gets a bad rap.
I do I have. Oh, it's Jeremy. Yes, tell us your. Can I can I do my story? Yeah, your story. So I
they kind I have two, but they they feed off of each other in a way. So in fourth grade, a girl
in our school got her period. And she had my doll in her desk. And like this was the biggest mystery
to us in this tiny little evangelical Lutheran grade school, because none of us knew what my
doll was. And we needed to like, it's like a like period cramping cramps. Yeah. It's for it's for
cramps. And yeah, it can be used for any pain. Like it's it's just an anti-inflammatory. So
it's one of the best ones that like four menstrual cramps, but it it can be used for other
things. But that's probably the best one. So we had not had sex ed in our in our Lutheran school,
right? That was frowned upon. So but like it took over our classroom, like we had to figure out what
this was like, what was going on? Like this girl like hit puberty, obviously. And so she had like
boobs. And so like that was enticing. And then like, she had this medicine that nobody knew what it was.
And the girls through her purse or how did I don't know it was in her desk. It was in her desk.
And the girls like it like went through the girls first. And then the guys, the boys found out about
it. And so it was this whole class mystery. The girls solved it somehow. This was before the
internet was readily accessible, right? Right. And so then like, but it was bothering us boys,
because like the girls knew, but they weren't telling us. So then we had to find out. And like
our school was forced, I think, to give us like a sex ed in fourth grade. And we weren't supposed to
get it till eighth grade. So like we had this like terrible fourth grade sex ed. And I just remember
like the picture of the body they showed us was anatomically like incorrect. Like it showed like
a Ken doll, like no penis, no testicles, like it was like a Ken doll. And they took the girls
into different rooms. So no idea what they were taught that happened in eighth grade too. Like
that was my first sex ed was fourth grade after this huge might all mystery had like consumed us
for like a month. And then in eighth grade, we had our actual sex ed and the wet dreams came up
before in our chart. And whoever like whatever Christian group produced this this video was so
embarrassed about sex, that they like didn't explain what wet dreams were. We there was just
this recurring scene in the video where like the kid like snuck his his bed sheets into the laundry.
And so like this video and like, it's just the boys, right? Because the girls are in different
rooms. And we're like, are we like going to start like wetting the bed? Like what happens in puberty
that we have to change our sheets all the time? So it was like, such a lack of information during
our sex ed that we were all like concerned that like puberty meant we started wetting the bed again.
And none of us knew what was going on. Oh my God. Do you like, okay, ladies, do you feel that you
were ripped off by I always was told that only guys got wet dreams. And then when I had a dream
where I basically had a wet dream, but like girls get orgasmic dreams, right? And I was freaked out
when I had that happen. And I didn't know how to explain it. And I went to my mom and thankfully my
mom helps me answer questions. But I was like, something happened. But you were I was always
told that only guys got that. So or like, I was never taught that the vagina gets wet.
Like, or that too, whenever I had fluid down there, I thought there was something wrong with me.
And I was so grossed out embarrassed by it until my mid 20s. I read a book on like your,
your, your fertility to be, you know, because I can't use birth control. Have to use them,
you know, the fertility method. And I was like, what, like this fluid I've been so embarrassed
about and so normal plays amazing roles in my body. Yeah, you guys are gonna die.
I thought that sperm was in P until college. And I was wondering why all these unplanned
pregnancies were happening. Because I was like, don't you decide to pee or not pee?
Oh, yeah. That's, oh, that's adorable. I had a friend, I had a friend,
she's still a really good friend. And it wasn't till she was like 16, she thought
penises had hair that go, that went right up to the tip. Like she thought it was just like a hairy,
like, all the way up to the... I'm really glad it's not. It can look that way.
We always give a shit about it. It's so funny.
I'm trying to think like I've got a million horror stories, but I'm probably gonna keep
losing my train of thought. But then I wanted to ask you, Ben, about how has purity culture and
like horror stories and stuff, how like, how you have a very unique perspective and like,
how does it differ from like, you know, cis straight versus like queer trans? Like how,
give us a bit of a taster of like, what do you experience?
It's very interesting because like, there's a lot of assumptions that go on in cis relationships.
And because people just assume like, you have your role, you know what your role is,
your role is related to what your body is, and all that. And people don't really question it.
Until you go into queer areas and now you have to question it because you just don't know.
You don't know yourself. You don't know other people. And in order to really know if you're
compatible, you have to address all that stuff right away. So we do communicate a lot more
about that kind of thing, but it's a journey to meet yourself and your sexuality like,
as a queer person, and especially as a trans person, because your body doesn't align up with
how you think it should be. And so this is kind of a little bit of a horror story
for me as well. Because I was in a relationship in, this is actually in the beginning of med school
with a woman. And I was, later on in that relationship, I would come out as trans. But
earlier on, like I thought I was just, I was a lesbian and I was in this relationship with a girl.
And I just didn't know why I was struggling so much. And I thought it was just purity culture
baggage. I thought that I was like, you know, I just can't make myself do sexual things because
I feel bad. And that wasn't actually the case. Because I ended up going to like an adult store
with my partner. And what it was was it was immense dysphoria because I walked into the store
like and I had so much dysphoria and it was the worst like that I'd ever had. And so it was very
clear at that point that like I wasn't cis because it clicked for me that my issues with sex,
number one, like I had already figured out that it was the the straight versus queer thing. But
also it was that the role I was expected to play in the bedroom was not compatible with my body.
Like the role that I wanted was what I couldn't physically do. And so that was like really
traumatizing for me. And so it was like having that understanding of no, my my gender is different,
how my body should be is different than what it currently is. And then figuring out how I operate
sexually in that kind of environment was something for me to figure out on my own. But then going
back to that communication thing of why relationships can look so different in queer circles,
because we've all done that with ourselves or are continuing to do it. So when you're meeting a new
partner, it's okay to be more open about, Hey, I don't know if I like this thing, but I want to
try this or like, I don't know if I like girls, but I'd like to try this out and see how it feels.
And it's it's much more open because there's no rules for what your role is or what you can do.
Whereas like, I think a lot of cishet relationships, like, and of course, there are a lot of great
ones out there. But I think a lot of them end up having issues because of the fact that they
operate on so many assumptions, and people don't address how true those assumptions were or not.
And that might be me looking at at cishet relationships from the outside. So I could be
incorrect about that. But I'm curious what what you all feel about that kind of thing.
I love my queerness for that. Like, I feel like my queerness saved me from the heteronormative
narrative where it's just like, the way you've always thought and the way you've always understood
your body and the way you've always understood pleasure and sexuality and relationships, like,
it's all at the window, figure out what works for you. And it says equally is thrilling, equally
thrilling as it is terrifying. Because everything's been so black and white my whole life. And when
my queerness entered the picture, everything became gray. And it took me a while to find my footing
in that world. But once I did now, I'm like, my queerness brings so much color and nuance and
variation and options and possibilities that just weren't there when that was not part of my
identity and framework. So for me, it's been a huge gift and a blessing.
I say all the time to couples, like the LGBTQ LGBTQ community is like,
eons ahead in communication around sex, just kind of like what Dr. Ben was talking about,
like, because they've gone through that process themselves, they can articulate it so much better
than a lot of the cis-het couples I work with who are either like, even if they're not coming out of
purity culture or having shame, they just haven't had a reason to think through these things. And
so they're kind of figuring it out on the fly. And then they're much worse at communicating about it,
like the poly couples I work with and the couples who are doing like ENM stuff,
like ethical non-monogamy, like they just, the communication is so much more open and better
as just like a general rule. Yeah, I imagine you'd like, you kind of forced into that position
as a member of the LGBT community, I guess, because you're not like, it's kind of a shame in one way,
but it's also like, it's your power in another way, you know, like, does that make sense?
Like it's a shame that we have that it has to be like that, that, but it's also awesome that
that you have that as like a power, you know, it's like, it's like a benefit to the whole group.
I have this joke that I always say that kind of, I think exposes the underlying narrative of
like the normative ideas people have, but it's like, I always say, we got a newborn boy,
Atlas, and I always say like, I'll still love him if he's straight, I'll love him, I'll accept him,
just I will never send him to straight conversion camp, I'll never, you know, like, and people feel
funny about that when I say that, because it shows the bias amongst like the heteronormativity
around the conversation around this, which is, yeah, it's hard for people.
Let's talk about sex positions. I just saw your question earlier, and I'm like,
seeing everyone's responses, I'm like, ah, you need to talk about it.
Okay. All right. Well, let's do, let's do three things. I got, I got two horror stories I want
to quickly tell about my own, and we are going a little bit over, but I'll, we'll try to keep
this reasonable. Everyone, I want you to post your sex positions, your favorite sex position,
if you're game, your favorite sex act in the comment section, and then we'll discuss. Also,
like this stream, it's one of the best ways you can help support this channel. We've got 39 likes,
49 viewers, 10 of you haven't liked the stream, and I know- Come on, people.
Like the stream, it helps- One of them is me, I'm working on it.
It helps the algorithm gods, and it boosts the channel a lot, and if you want to support this
channel, obviously Patreon and joining and super chatting is a huge thing that helps.
I got two super, super, as you post your, as you post your favorite sex acts in the comments,
hopefully, if you, if you be careful to what you write, because it might get like instant
moderated or whatever, not my, not by me, but so maybe change the wording a little bit, we'll
understand what you mean. But I got two quick little horror stories for you. So in, when I
first started discovering pornography, I remember going into a magazine, like a news agency, and
just opening a porn magazine and be like, Oh my God, titties. Like, I love titties. Like,
oh, like, this is me. And I just went, and I freaked out, and I just ripped out the page,
and it shook into my pocket, and then walked out. And then it got to the point where-
You stole it?
Yeah, we stole it. And then I kept going back and just stealing, ripping pages out of these magazines.
And, and I remember one time I shipped them on a friend, and he just went, Oh my God, and
shut the whole thing down his pants and walked out, and I was like, Oh my God. And like, we were
these little punk stealing magazines from this store. And I remember I had this image,
and it was like folded up. And I don't know what I did, but I shoved it under my little brother's
booster seat in the car, like the car seat, forgot about it. And we're driving. And so I was
11 or 12, like I was, I was young, right? And maybe even 11 or 12, anyway, under the car seat.
And one day I come home from school, I was in primary school, I come home, I go into the
laundry room, and I just see this like unfolded thing on the kitchen table. And I'm there with
my friend, and I just go like, Oh, I go, Mom, I'm going to the skate park. And she goes, David,
can you please come into the kitchen, please? And I was like, Oh, no, I'm going to go, I've
got to go. I'm, you know, I'm late for friend. And she's like, No, come in. And she came in.
And she's like, So, um, so I was walking around the supermarket and my youngest brother, Neil,
who was like, you know, three or four at the time, he was walking around showing everyone
in the supermarket this, this image. And my mom said, Where did you get this from? Where did
you get this image? And he's like, under the car seat. And he was going around the shopping
center showing everyone, he like pulled it out and unfolded it in the super shopping center and
was showing everyone in the supermarket. And then she put two and three together realized it must
be me. And then we spoke about it. Yeah, it was, it was, it was funny. And then skipping forward,
I had to, when I was a youth pastor, we had used to have these anti masturbation clubs.
And I haven't told this part of the story, but essentially, we'd have these men's groups and
would all like message each other when we're horny. And it was, it was not like no porn. It was
no masturbation. So it was like, you call someone and you'll, or you text someone, you're like,
pray. And when they get a text, pray, it means you're horny. And you need them to pray because
you're being influenced by the devil or something to make you horny. Yep. So they need to go pray.
And so so many times, like you'd, they'd go, they'd go away and pray. And it's so funny because
like at the start of the week, no one would be sending messages. At the end of the week, everyone's
like, pray, pray, pray, pray, pray. Like everyone's like leaving the good pray all the time because
everyone's just like, they haven't like masturbated in like a week. And then they come to church on a
Sunday and they see like Martha with like, you know, like the librarian church with like half a
centimeter of cleavage. And they're like, oh, I've got to, I can't control myself. And then she
feels like she's going to cover up and it's like a self-perpetuating like thing. So it's this like
they told Martha. No, no, no. But you know, like you can tell what the guys, you can just see that
like it's a self-perpetuating thing where girls are feeling like they're making guys stumble.
Guys are just like saying, don't masturbate. You're not allowed to masturbate. And then
they get really horny. And then, you know, they're getting, getting all like creepy around
girls. And they're like, I'm going to cover up more. I'm just feeling like he's like checking me out
or whatever. It's just like the self-perpetuating thing. Like I had a friend, a friend, I won't
mention her name. I'll call her Tia. And Tia was like on the beach and just in a bikini. And then
she got a message from someone saying, Hey, just so you know, you made me stumble. It wasn't cool
what you're wearing from one of the guys. So she's like, Oh, okay. I'm sorry. And, and yeah, I,
I essentially, I masturbated because of you. Oh, okay. I'm sorry about that.
Compliment.
It's a compliment, but it's also super weird. Like super weird. I feel, I feel like people will
like masturbate at whoever, but it's like, it's weird when it's not consensual. Number one. Yeah.
And like, don't tell them that you like, you're doing a sexual assault without their
I don't shame them for it either. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I actually have. Oh, sorry. Go ahead.
I was just going to say that I remember I did like something like, for me, it was a record. It was
like 10 days or 11 days without masturbating or something. And it's, you know, right in my
horny young adult years. And I remember I had to not go to a ministry meeting because I worked at
the checkouts at Woolworths. And I guess there was a lot of hot people that came through that day
or something that something I essentially got blue balls to the point where I couldn't walk.
Like I was in so much pain. And I had, I called up and I was like, look, I'm feeling sick. I can't
come in. And I went home because I essentially like, I was in, I was in actually excruciating
pain because I, I guess was horny and then couldn't masturbate. So I went home and masturbated a lot
better. But like it was, it was like a physical, it was a physical thing. Yeah.
Is that real? Cause I feel like people just say that to make people say that I'm telling you it's
real. In fact, so many times, so many times, if, if Amy and I have like planned as like a sexy night
and we're like doing a date beforehand, I'm like, fuck, like I've been thinking about it all day.
And I'm like, we need to like get to it. Like I'm, I'm in pain now to the point. I've, I've
won some of this one time. Sometimes it'll even last longer. I guess I'm just a really excitable
dude. But like, and Ben, Ben, maybe you can help me out here, man. I've gone to the doctor and
they're like, what are you talking about? But anyway, but I go, I, you know, I've like, I've
finished the action and felt, still felt the pain, felt sick and then like been dry reaching
outside from the pain because like it was so painful because I just, yeah. So yeah, it's been,
it's been real. Like it doesn't happen as much anymore. I'm not so, this is when we first got
married. But yeah, I, yeah. So, hey, hey, it's really good to know. Yeah, be careful.
Blow up my, my balls blow up. Yeah, but it was, it was definitely weird.
Um, cool. So everyone's sexual positions. Okay, let's read some comments.
So I love titties. Dave McDonald. Thank you.
Missionary is my favorite. Feet to the ceiling. Awesome, Eddie. Megan says, hashtag same. Um,
have we missed any? I'm just going on. Yeah, Megan said pegging up there earlier. Oh, yep.
Pegging. Okay. Does, can anyone explain, someone may not, no, no, no, what may not
know what pegging is. Someone explain what pegging is. Just want to see some.
Nicole, I think you should take the floor. I just got pegged for the first time last weekend. So
I'm on cloud nine from it. But, um, and I love to peg. I just had never been pegged. So typically
where you put a strap on, you were like a harness or an underwear that allows, that can hold a dildo.
And then you can use it to thrust into different holes. Um, so queer people, trans people and,
and men and women, like every gender can use them and you can use it and even have them for
different body parts. Like you can like, and for like your knees or like different things to
make them accessible for all bodies. Um, but just another way to, uh, penetrate. And I love pegging.
And I think it's so hot. And then I loved being pegged. Is it, is it pegging? Is it specifically
to a guy or is it pegging can, well, because I thought it was a strap on sex, but I thought
pegging was specifically to guys. Well, she just said she got pegged for the first time last weekend.
So yeah, so it must not, I don't know. I'm not, I'm not the expert here. So tell us more.
So my experience last weekend was where a woman put on, um, a strap on and then pegged me my
vagina. Um, and then I've pegged a guy in his ass. I like that. So yeah, is it, um, is any of this
on your, on your, I will be shedding everyone's stuff in a sec, but is this on your only fans
or is this just in your private life? Uh, private, but I do have photos of me with my strap on on
because I think it's so hot. Awesome. Awesome. Actually, funny enough, um, my little brother
got me a, um, my little brother Leo got me a strap, got Amy and I a strap on like, so we're
opening our engagement presence with everyone. Everyone's getting like a nice vase and stuff.
Open up a box. It's like a strap on vibrating dildo, um, a gag ball with drill holes and like
some whoops and chains. And I was just like in front of everyone and I'm just like, uh,
this is a really funny, this is a really expensive joke, but he did it. Yeah. So it's funny.
And funny, funny story, the more moving house, we had our, we had our grandparents, um, going
to open up the box of all those like crazy stuff that we have that we've, most of them will never
use and like butt plugs and all this stuff opened up and went to open up our grandparents and we're
like, ah, and some, and one of the sisters knew what was in the box and grabbing us like,
oh, it's okay. I know where to put it. And we're lucky they didn't open it. Anyway,
posse. I like toys. Yeah.
Carrie Ann, a doggy style with my face in the voice. Boris prone bone. That's cool.
Caitlin, I like being a little spoon, um, being pegged while a guy rides on top. That's cool.
Um, receiving and I like giving oral. Yes. Titty thief. I don't know if that's a
your story. Oh, my story. Yes. That's a new position.
I think we did that one. That sounds really gay, David. I don't know.
Anti masturbation club. It isn't masturbation. If your friend rubs your penis for you.
I'm just trying to look for, yeah, there was a bunch earlier, but I can't find them now. It's
shame in flashes. I think we're at the, we add some yes, Queens and some stuff like that. So I
think we're done. Prostate orgasm is amazing. Um, yes. Yes, Queen slay. Awesome. If I missed
any, I apologize, but thank you for being brave and sharing. That's, uh, it's awesome. Let's get rid
of shame. It's good to, um, it's good to be able to express who you are. So let's move into, uh,
we are, we're going up to time, but let's move on to some advice. Does anyone have any advice for
people who maybe, um, have like, who want to have like a sexual, uh, a healthy sexual,
healthy sexuality who want to be able to express themselves, but not feel like they're going to
end up like Ted Bundy. Like what advice would you give? And everyone will have some questions
and answers after this. So make sure you, you ask some questions. I have a couple thoughts. So I
think one of the biggest things I tell like my clients that I work with or people who come into
my orbit for the first time is, especially for women, I think queer people is like, you can trust
yourself. I haven't told my whole life. I can't trust my body. I can't trust my intuition. I can't
trust my gut. It will all leave me as straight. So I always listen to my pastor or as my parents or
my husband and was so afraid when I finally went on this journey to live life on my terms. I was
so afraid that I was going to ruin myself, become the female version of Ted Bundy. And yet it was,
it was me trusting myself that led to my freedom and my healing and my liberation. And then my,
once you start learning to trust yourself, um, I tell my clients to, you know, someone arbitrarily
gave us lines we're not supposed to cross without knowing how we're wired, our desires,
our identity, our pleasure. So I tell them the only way we can find our line is crossing the
ones placed for us. So if you feel led in a direction to a line that you've been told to stay
away from, because it'll ruin you, I encourage them to consider crossing it. Only after crossing it,
you'll know if that is a line for you or not. And you'll often find that line, maybe it is. Now you
know, at least you now know, and it wasn't someone else's rule for you. Or if you cross and it's
not your line, cool, where is your line? And it just opens up the whole world of exploration
and can lead to a whole lot of pleasure. Sorry, go Emily. I was just going to say, I,
what Nicole said resonates with me so deeply. I think even if you're not going as far as maybe
things that we've talked about here, you're told your whole life when you grew up in purity culture
that the Bible is the source of truth that you have to refer to when defining your own relationships.
And it turns out that you are that source of truth. And so I would just say that your
intuition is so much stronger than you would think and explore adventure to the point where
you're comfortable. And I hope that you can get rid of that shame because shame is the most limiting
emotion in the human emotion dictionary. Yeah, mine's along those same lines of there's no script,
the script is a lie, just ignore it. It's a blank page. And you get to decide what goes on that
page. And if you've got something you want to try, like find a consenting partner that will
do that with you or do it with yourself or whatever, as long as you're engaging with
a in consensual activity with somebody or multiple people who are consenting adults, then
do whatever do what I mean. Definitely like be safe, like use protection, like make sure that
you're risking what you're willing to risk because yeah, some people are okay with risking
some more unsafe activity, but other people are not willing to risk that know what you're willing
to risk, what where your lines are, again, like you can, like Nicole was saying, you can start
crossing some of those, don't let other people set your lines for you, but definitely understand
kind of like what safety measures you want to use and as long as you're, you know,
being consensual with people who can consent, then
enjoy it. And if you are, if you are sexually active, get tested and get tested. I think there's
a lot of shame and stigma around getting tested, but like get tested, it's good to know for your
own health, it's good to know for your partners or people you're hooking up with, like testing
regularly is a great idea. That's great. I just uncovered a unconscious bias that I had when you
talking to Nicole, you said, you know, try everything, and if it's not your thing, you can
kind of like, well, I don't want to do that anymore. I realized that I had this like perspective
that it's like, once you try something, you've like crossed this line, like you've got, you've
like now done, you've done the thing, right, where that's not necessarily how like humans work, like
that's the that's the narrative of kind of spoken about in like, in like purity culture, which is
like, you've, you've now crossed this line, you've now done this, this thing where it's like, if you
want to engage in something and it's consensual, both parties are consenting, and you want to try
it out. If it was, if it's a horrible experience, just don't do it again. You don't, that's it.
You don't have to, it doesn't have to ruin your life. Like, you don't want to do it. That's,
that's cool. I never thought about sexual acts in that way, that you could just kind of try something
and decide whether or not you'd like it or not. To me, it was always like,
um, yeah, it's so weird. I just don't cover this bias. Yeah, it's like, it's like, if you've,
like, let's say if I was like, I want to sleep with a man, like I want to try it or something,
like, and, and, and I did one time, it would be like, it's like, I would have thought to myself,
like, now I'm gay, or now I've, now I've done something that's like gay or something, like,
that's like a bias that I have, but it's like, not, that's not a, I just, I don't know.
Or were you told, were you told, like, it's a line that you can't ever cross back again? Like,
that's how I've been told. Yeah. So yeah, you've, yeah, yeah. It's like, I just had sex with like,
on a bed with nine people last weekend and it was amazing. And I'm like,
I don't know if I would do that again. But I'm glad I had that experience. And I'm like,
I don't know if that's my thing. I feel like, I feel like it's a lot. I feel like there's a lot
going on there. It was a lot. It's a little too much for me. It was that just, was that for your
only fans or just like, you're having a bomb on my research. Oh, research purpose. I go research,
go find what I like, what I don't like. And then I bring it back and I do monthly live streams
in my only fans where we have sex eds and I update them on my latest sex page, what I like,
what I don't like, what I recommend. Here's what I don't like. And I'm researching for me and my
people. And then I get amazing experiences out of it. And I mean, so I have a question.
So like, do you find these people? Do you say, like, I need to find this out for research,
who wants to join me? How do you go about this? Different sex clubs and sex parties.
And they're all different. This was the first time I went to an all girls sex party. And
before I knew it, I was in the middle of nine bodies and I was like, Holy crap, what is my life
right now? That's amazing. There's um, there is, uh, so this is a good opportunity to shout out
everyone's links. So the first thing we actually have is Nicole, you have an only fans that people
can go check out. Can you tell us a little bit about your only fans? Yeah. So I personally love
my only fans. Like, um, I started at three and a half years ago as a place to just practice
taking up space and reclaiming my body and my sexuality as good. Cause I was taught my whole
life that my body and sexuality is bad and evil and getting used to having a place where that was
welcomed and appreciated. And it blew up. And now, um, I want to have only fans top creators.
And the reason I love it is it's so all encompassing, right? Like we're most of my fans when we do
one-on-one zoom calls, which is for a sexy time. They're usually asking me, how can I make more
money? Nicole, how can I better pleasure my partner? How do I walk away from my religion,
but staying connected to my family? Like we go deep. And then I make, of course, super explicit
erotic content. So you get like everything fulfilled. You get the human connection,
you get the deep conversation, you get the erotic experiences and content. And like,
there's just no other place like traditional, uh, porn sites don't have that. You just get
content and go. But here's like, we talk about your relationship, your kids, your wellbeing.
And then my personal favorite kink is couples who subscribe. Um, it is my favorite thing when
couples use my content to get off and get closer. And I'm like, please tell me more,
please stay in my world. I love couples. Um, and I have a lot of women who subscribe as well. It's
a really beautiful space. And David, I think for your fans to even know, like it's something you
can subscribe to. And if you guys find that's not your thing, you can unsubscribe and you're,
there's nothing wrong with it. I think people have this fear of if I subscribe to something like Only
Fans, then there's no going back. Nope, you subscribe. It's not your thing. Now you know,
if it is your thing, awesome, but it's a really, really special place.
Yeah. And uh, you mentioned, you mentioned too, for you, you started taking like,
and this is in your episode of Deep Rings, but you started taking nude photos for you. And then
you were like, I wonder if I should post this anywhere. And that's where it kind of like kind
of started. Five years of naked photos of myself because I think they're hot. And when I learned
that Only Fans existed, I was like, I'm posting these for me because I want to open up a whole
social media page where it's just me feeling hot. And you get to enjoy it as a byproducts,
like you're welcome. And then now it's, it's blossomed a full blown community and business.
And it is, I'm in there every day. It is such an incredible space. Yeah. Now you're fucking rich.
We're so cute, Nicole. Yeah. So apostasy, let's talk about your channel. There's nothing here right
now. There's nothing because I'm just starting it. Um, so I was on the line earlier this week.
So right now I'm mostly on, um, Skeptic Haven every Wednesday. And then I have an Instagram,
which I'm, that's where I'm most active, but I was just on the line with Jimmy Snow on Tuesday.
It was wonderful. And he's actually sending me a camera and a microphone to get my podcast
started with my mom. So there will be content on my YouTube. You can show it. There's nothing
at the moment, but, um, there will be, there will be, because we have, I just shared something
about Skeptic Haven, but, um, we are going to get that started. And he has already sent me,
the camera and microphones for us to get our, our channel up and going and it should be here
next week. So, um, stay tuned for that. Cause that's something that we've been talking about
for a long time. And he actually just saw the, yeah, there was us. He's so great. Um, he saw the
little blurb that I had, like a stay tuned that I've had for months. And he's like, Hey,
you got to get this started. So I'm going to help you. And that will be coming. So.
Yeah. It's so, it's so cool. And you, so Jimmy Snow is coming on Deep Drinks. You should come off
work to make sure you're there in the audience. I did not want to miss that. Cause, um, yeah, I'm
just, I think Jimmy's great. And so I didn't want to miss the episode. He's a great guy.
Yeah. He's a great guy. Uh, he was a funny, he was a Mormon and he, what did he say? He said
something like, um, he realized masturbation wasn't hurting anybody and, uh, and he's autistic. And
that's why he's not a Mormon anymore. That's like, that's the reason. He's like, I have a dick and
I'm autistic. Now I'm not Mormon. That's all. So, um, so he's really cool guy. Um, he's, he's, he's,
he's great. And I'm, I'm really glad that he and I have become friends in the last little while.
Yeah. Awesome. Dr. Ben, you're no longer a student, Dr. Ben, your family.
No longer student. I've been, yeah. So this is my YouTube channel. Um, I have some lecture
style videos on there, but I don't have a whole lot of time. So, uh, it's mostly live shows on
Saturdays now called medical myths. And I picked some, you guessed it, a myth. That's medically
adjacent and I tear to shreds. Um, and it can get kind of intense depending on if there's a guest on,
I don't do as much lecture in it, but if it's just me, you get a lot of, uh, more lecture content in
it. Um, we get through a lot of studies. This one was about artificial ingredients and why the
fear mongering is problematic. And we looked at studies, um, about certain dyes and why they may
or may not be a problem. It gets very sciency. Um, I don't know if you want to pull up.
Actually, that's your name. Oh yeah. That's what I put for that show, because that's my first
medical myths, uh, with, with the new name. Uh, you can also find me on talky then. And if you
want to go to the, um, the transatlantic call-and-show on the line, so people know, because that's
kind of the biggest one that we've got here. Uh, I'm a, one of the main hosts on the transatlantic
call-and-show, which is, as we're talking about Jimmy Snow, Jimmy is my boss. Uh, but, uh, so we
do a call-and-show every Thursday at 2pm central time. Uh, it's Katie Montgomery, Arden Hart, and me,
and we take questions and debates about trans issues. So if you want to ask something, uh, but
don't feel confident enough to ask a trans friend or you don't have a trans friend to ask, or it's
just might be mildly offensive to ask, uh, you can call us and ask us your weird questions. Or
if you don't think trans people should have rights, you can also tell us why you don't think
trans people should have rights. And we will probably yell at you, but we're here for those
conversations. And for anyone that doesn't want to call in, but wants to listen, uh, you can,
we have a pretty good community over there too. And you can be in the side chat and listen to,
um, how we engage with these people who might be transphobic, or we also actually had on this
past week, uh, Josie and I had two back-to-back callers at the end of the show who were parents,
uh, with trans children, uh, in, in various situations that wanted to know the best way
to help their kids. And so we do take those calls as well. And so if you need advice on how to,
um, support your kid or support someone else in your family, uh, you can get some good tips there.
It's, it's great because it gets rid of all the nonsense or like the, all the, like Ben Shapiro
talking points and all the drama that goes on with like the online discourse around, uh,
transgender identity. And you just talk to two trans people and they can, and you guys are just
like fantastic. Yeah, I love that show. Love you guys, what you do there. Really good stuff.
Uh, so Jeremy, uh, wait, actually Emily, Emily, let's talk about yours.
So you put in the Trevor project?
Yes. Yeah. So, um, you know, I'm sure you guys can relate, but, uh, my time in Christianity,
I just did so much damage to the queer community that I will spend my life trying to make up for
it. And if you're in that boat as well and compelled to support LGBTQ plus youth, the Trevor
project is a wonderful and effective organization. And, um, I hope that you will decide to partner
with them. Awesome. So I, I like that you put, you, you put this in your, um, as your main link
that you wanted to share. Are you doing anything, um, like that's really honorable for you to do.
Are you doing anything that people can reach you out to? I know that you're not doing your, um,
your, uh, podcast much anymore or you're like transitioning out of that space. You're still
going to do a little bit of it or what's happening with your online world. Not, it's kind of up in
the air. I'm phasing out. I feel that I've said everything that I needed to say and I'm excited
for new people to step into the space. So right now I'm just going to be supporting.
Cool. Cool. Well, um, was I the last guest that's on, has been on that show?
What'd you say? Was I the last guest on that show that's still up there?
No, I, I have, um, one more with Reverend Carla that I'm editing that I'll be releasing.
Um, she's wonderful on TikTok. So that's going to be really good. And that'll be my last one.
Cool. You can check it out. Farrell pastors, uh, podcast, Farrell, uh, oh my gosh,
Farrell ministry. Farrell pastors, wife. Yeah. Farrell ministers.
Check that out. But it's really awesome. I'm like, sorry. But yeah, my episode's amazing.
Go watch that. It is really good. It's one of my favorites. You should go.
And, uh, Jeremy, so you have your own wellness with jet.com.
Yeah, that's me. Uh, that's kind of just like the homepage for all my stuff.
So I blog pretty regularly on whatever is in my mind. So a couple of weeks ago,
I wrote a blog on like the importance of comprehensive sex ed. So kind of like some
stuff that's up in, uh, pop culture, some stuff that's, uh, I don't know,
whatever pops in my head. I blog. I also have a YouTube channel at wellness chair.
I have a Instagram account that I'm pretty active on at wellness with chair.
My YouTube accounts tiny, you, uh, tiny. So if anyone wants to take pity on a small
channel, I talk about like mental health and comic books and mental health and movies and
shows. I just don't know. Yeah, that's all right. I didn't, I didn't send the link. Yeah.
I'd review songs and say why it's terrible relationship advice. Um, okay. So you got,
you got 17 to subscribe. Yeah. Let's see. Let's see. We can go to people.
Go. I'll place a link in the chat. But yeah, all my stuff's on my website first.
So I'll be kicking off a new podcast soon where I interview other therapists about their mental
health. So like all that stuff, I just, my website has all my links and all my stuff.
So wellnesswithjair.com. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. And you, you reach out actually
because you were doing some sort of like a men's, was it a men's culture? That link is also on my
website. Uh, we're on a wait list right now. Um, I was doing, I set up another therapist and I,
we're both male. So we're doing a, a support group, a coaching group for guys who are coming out of
purity culture because purity culture is bad for men too, even though it's set up for them to be
beneficial, but it harms them a lot too. Um, and there's a lot of great support groups out there
for females and women and a lot of women identifying, female identifying people are doing support
groups. And so we felt like we didn't need two straight white dudes to come in and, and do that.
So we're doing a group for men coming out of purity culture. Uh, there's on the religious
trauma tab on my website. There's a little sign up at the bottom. Uh, so we're in a wait list for
a summer group for that. So yeah, healing, sexual shame. Um, but I was just going to say too,
like there's a lot of great stuff. Trevor project was on my list. I crossed it off.
Recoveringfromreligion.org is a great resource for people who are coming out dare to doubt.org
is a great resource for people who are like struggling with some of this stuff. Just like
these are, these are sites that have a ton of resources to find. And then like seculartherapy.org,
I always give a shout out. Like if you're coming out of religion, if you're struggling with shame,
if you're struggling with purity culture, like go to therapy, like find a support group is wonderful,
but like go see someone who's trained in it. Reclamation collective is another one that has
therapists who are trained specifically in religious trauma. So like if you're struggling,
like there are people who are, who are, who want to be helpful. So find the help that you need.
So yeah, I apologize everyone. There's a bit, but a couple of bots in the chat. So thank you,
nitty. And apostasy for getting on top of that. We're doing more mods. If you want to be a mod,
reach out to me on Twitter or something. If I, if I can trust you, I'll make you a mod.
So guys, thank you so much for coming on. We're going to answer a few questions. If anyone has
any questions, drop them in the chat now. So this one is for Dr. Ben went by Aunt Joe,
when are you doing the poop show? I don't know. Yeah, I don't know. I know I've promised multiple
people that I'm going to do medical myths about enemas and poop. So because apparently coffee
enemas are back. And yeah, are they good? Wait, actually, this is a good, this is a good,
this is a good for purity culture, right? Because before sometimes, not all the time,
you don't have to. No shame. But a lot of people will do enemas and stuff before engaging in like
anal play and anal sex, because they don't want to get poop everywhere. Is it one? Well, I guess
you could talk a little bit about that, but, but maybe on your medical myth show or something. But
should people do coffee enemas? Like, is that? No, you should not do coffee enemas.
You're essentially butt chugging coffee at that point. And it will be more potent because you're
bypassing the liver through absorption. Because when when you drink something or eat something,
oftentimes it's the molecules are absorbed in your intestine and then go straight to the liver.
It gets some of it gets metabolized right away. So you're not dealing with the full dose of the
of the compound. Whereas if it goes up your butt, the circulation doesn't go through the liver first.
So you're getting the full amount of compound. So that's why butt chugging gets you drunk faster.
And why it could be more dangerous. So that same thing with coffee, don't
don't do a coffee enema. It's probably not great. We should do a butt stuff special on
deep drinks where we just talk about. Can Nicole, can Nicole join us?
I was going to say before to with like advice, like, if you're coming out of purity culture,
you're missing information, like get educated. Because like, the number of dudes I've worked
with who have like hurt themselves because they put something way too big up their butt because
they were like unprepared or didn't know about lube or like, we're sharing like,
uh, butt toys without like sanitizing them, like people who are getting like doing things that are
like sexually risky for STIs because they don't know what protection looks like. They don't know
how to protect themselves. Like Nicole said, get tested. Like, if you grew up in purity culture,
like aggressive fundamentalist purity culture, like you don't know what you're doing. And like,
you're going to either like, non-concentrally harm someone else, you're going to harm yourself.
Like, and this isn't like fear mongering. This is like, go get educated. Like,
what did I write down? Sexplanations is a really great YouTube site. It's from a sex therapist.
Just like, here's what a dildo is. Here's how condoms work. Like, if you missed sex ed or you
got the Christian version of sex ed, you need to like, reeducate yourself because you're just
missing things and not knowing what consent is or not knowing what safety is. Like, those are
problematic things to not have information on. That's actually talking about butt stuff. That's
actually something that I learned was I used to always think, I was always taught that anal sex
was like almost a predatory act. It was like an act for one person to feel pleasure and the other
person to just deal with it. Where I've since learned and since experienced that it can be
extremely pleasurable for both parties, not just like anal sex, but anal play, like anal
lingus, everything to do butt stuff can be really fun for everyone. It just, yeah, it just, there
is some obviously the get educated before you don't just jump in to that those rough oceans
without a lifeboat. Make sure you have, make sure you use lube and do it carefully, you know,
because otherwise it can be a hard time. We've got some super chats. Eddie Dean,
I've waited all week for this stream was not disappointed. I had a blast. All six of you
are amazing, especially Dr. Ben. Love you guys. Thanks so much. I love being the favorite.
I'm rarely the favorite. So this is for me. Thank you for boosting my ego more than it needed
today. I appreciate that. We need you're so loud. Dr. Ben. Yeah, so loved. And I mean, like,
it's just all I've like, I was saying this morning, you have like a glow about you.
And I think it's probably because, you know, you just had your top surgery. You're just like,
you've got, you're going through the, you're going through, you know, the, the, the, the feelings
associated with all that and stuff. But I just feel like just when you pass all that, you're
just going to be like, I said, when you come to Australia, we'll have you. I'll bring you down
to Noosa Beach. If you ever come to Australia and have your fight, have people fighting off,
you'll be shirtless and run around and you're fighting off dudes and chicks and sticks like,
yeah. Cool. Needy said, purity, shmoot, smootery. That's so good. And he said,
oh, here we go. If you could try, if you could try anything that was taboo in your
purity, in your purity world that you haven't yet, what would it be? What an interesting question.
I don't know if anyone's keen to answer this, but it's
I'm going to a furry rave next month. So I think that says all it needs to
you're going to a furry rave. As an observer, I was invited and the tickets were cheaper than I
thought. I was like, why not? Oh, man, I want to hear. I hope you make some tick talks about that.
I'll report back. If I could try anything that was on the naughty list for purity culture, it would
just be just me as I am now. That's I'm everything against. I'm everything against what I thought
was okay. So that's so good. My family is so disappointed. Well, we're not. We're not. We're
not. We're not. I know it's like, it can be hard. Hey, what about anyone else?
Mine's like the opposite. Mine's like I like even nervous to say this word, but I have a fantasy
of a gang bang. So that's my thing that I like. And there's some things I talk about in my only
fans. I'm always trying to discern what fantasies want to say fantasies and never get fulfilled.
It's just fun to imagine and then what fantasies they actually want to fulfill. The gang bang
leans more towards the first. I'm like, I think it's something I like to think about. But sometimes
I wonder if I might try someday. Yeah, I've got lots of things that are like in the realm of like,
I don't know if I would like, like, I can, but like, there's a lot of like, there's a lot of stuff
in my head that I'm like, I don't know if I'd want to do this, but I can see why it'd be fun.
Like just, just going wild like Vegas, you know, typical Vegas, like drugs and party and stuff.
But, but I don't know, you know, that's not in alignment with who I kind of want to be at the
moment, I guess, with as a new father and stuff. So, and happily married. So, so it's like, yeah,
so it's like, there's fantasies, but then it's like, I don't know if I would go do cocaine with
strippers at Vegas at the moment in my life, but I can see why it'd be fun. It's a good combo. But
yes, just do it whenever. Get educated before you do drugs, too.
Oh, dude. Yeah, I should do that safely. Do do drugs, but do them safely.
I don't advocate for drugs. I've never actually done, I've only ever done,
let's make some weed and a bit of LSD, but yeah, I don't have any drugs.
Reduction of harm is, is the term we want to use around things like that.
You can do whatever you want. Let's reduce the harm, reduction of harm.
Actually, and I should mention this, Jeremy, we're going to have you on deep
drinks. You're the only one who hasn't got your own episode on deep drinks yet,
because you, and something that we didn't really cover, but you were a therapist and then you kind
of realized that you were, that what you were being asked to kind of do was at odds with the
literature, right? Can you just quickly touch on that? Yeah, I don't know how often I talked about
in therapy that why I've submit to your husband verse. And I was like, yeah, but like, that's
not what it actually means in terms of a healthy relationship. So this is how we have to rework
that. Yeah. So I was, I went to a big research institution. So like how I learned how to do
therapy and how I learned like psychology was through research and why research is so important
and why it's so good. And then I got offered a job while I was still in grad school. And that was,
I don't know, right after like the terrible market crash, I graduated from college in 2009.
So I was like, kind of having that opportunity to follow my lap is like, well, I don't want to go
be a Christian counselor, but also I don't really want to do a job on. So I ended up being a Christian
counselor, I worked there for like eight or nine years. But I just think I kept getting more and
more liberal and progressive. My deconstruction, I like to say, took me about like 20 years too long.
But so yeah, I was like, the things that I think other Christian therapists were saying is not
what I was saying, like I was pro kink, I was pro, like, I was very pro sex, I was pro sex worker,
I was pro LGBTQ community. I worked with like so many clients who were like, how do I come out to
my very conservative family? And trying to like make that a safe space for them. So I was, I worked
with plenty of couples who I would throw shade at missionary, because I would say like missionary
Wednesdays once a month, because you have to is like, not the way to do sex. There's so much more.
But like, yeah, I was saying stuff like, Hey, like, the Bible has a sex book, like God wants
you to have sex. And so like, I was so like, liberal, and like, I was taking the research and
making it fit what the Bible was saying, not necessarily doing it how I think a lot of other
Christian counselors are doing it is taking the Bible and ignoring the research. So I was doing
a lot of mental gymnastics on my part, I think to benefit my clients. But yeah, I had to get out
at some point of that setting. I love it. You said, what is it missionary Wednesdays or whatever?
I am, I always say, the other night, I bought me a bottle of mom of champagne home and I was
like, you know what, you just have a night to yourself, whatever. And she's like drinking it
and she's like having a great time. And she's like, I'm going to get another glass. I'm like,
you've got to it's anal Thursdays. And like, I always do that. And she just like, last
your days of the week conflict with my days of the week. So that's the problem. Because my,
my cult has buttfuck Tuesday. So I guess we can also have an all Thursday. I guess,
I guess we can combine these multiple days. Or the time zones, maybe, you know,
yeah, it's a brilliant version of buttfuck Tuesday. I see how
okay, I'm just going to quickly wrap up now, guys, because we are two and a half hours. Thank
you everyone for coming out. In a couple of days, we have I'm chatting with a Pentecostal
Christian. So that'd be really interesting chatting with a testifier apologetics. We're
not just an atheist channel here. Well, I'm an agnostic atheist, but I like to have conversations
about religion, philosophy, human rights. And then we have Chrissy coming on to talk about
should we deep platform harmful, harmful ideologies and the people who promote them. So that'd be
a really interesting conversation. Because we got called out by 20 got called out by Chrissy on
Twitter. And we ended up having a Twitter beef for all of like 30 seconds. And then all 30 minutes.
And then we ended up getting on the phone and talking for an hour and a half and became buddies.
So and I was like, you know what, we should continue this conversation. You want to support
this channel, deep drinks, patreon.com, such deep drinks. And you can see all the Patreon
supporters down below here in the scrolling bar to say thank you to all the people who
are supporting the channel. And thank you to everyone who's super chatting. Guys,
check out the links links for everyone's stuff that we mentioned before is in the
description. And thank you so much for coming out. We're going to end on one last comment.
Caitlin said something amazing. Yeah, I learned that I would fantasize about things that I would
never want to do myself with something I had to talk about with a therapist. And then
the therapist told me, well, guys fantasize about being James Bond, but most of them don't
actually want to be shot by spies. And that made it click for me. And I was like, yeah, that works.
Right. Yeah, for sure. Awesome. Well, thank you so much. And I'll see all you guys later.
Thanks for the amazing panel. Peace. Thank you guys.
