close your eyes and try and imagine yourself as like the most
purity culture, purity person that you were back when maybe you
attended church or whatever become that person again for the
next five minutes. So these are all AI art generated imagery.
Let me zoom in. It took me ages and I actually got banned from
using the AI because I would type in like a bunch of shirtless
people hugging and I'd be like, you're banned and I got banned
of masturbation. And that's the image. It's a lady looking at
her hands. Yeah, so where are we going to put on our knees,
you know,
I was bad. Yeah, I think it's bad sin. Yeah, bad sin. I would
agree with that.
I think this this level depends on how if you're perceived as a
man or a woman in the church, I think it's different. Yeah. So
do you think it was worse for women?
Definitely women. Yeah.
I think I think most men were like, it's bad, but we're gonna
do it, you know, like they were all kind of doing it.
I was raised fundamentalist. So all these are gonna be hell
bound sins for me, you know, just
you thought about sex and you weren't married, you're going
to hell.
Okay, looking at some of us. So I got this person with
binoculars.
Meh.
Meh.
I think
yeah, it's meh.
Okay, cool.
I think so as well.
Pornography. Now, look at this image.
Oh, that's a very, very bad, very bad, very bad sin. Okay, I
love that.
You look so happy.
Did you see the prompts that I used?
Did any of your parents like, make you get a like a safety
browser so that you wouldn't be caught watching porn?
Covenant eyes, right?
Yeah, having a nice huge yep.
Fornication. So people meeting in a nightclub and that's the
only one I could think of to get very bad, very bad. I'd say
very bad, very bad. Okay, okay.
And that's, that's New Testament. It's outlawed right
there. Yeah, it's a fornicate.
Okay, so this is where it's a little, little bit fun, because
I think this actually goes into the realm of like marriage as
well. So you're in a healthy monogamous relationship. What
happens when your partner or someone or you want to try butt
stuff? Is butt stuff to a sin when you're in marriage?
Oh, I was taught that that it is death and I don't, I don't
want it to be bad though. Yeah, I think if it's still within
the confines of marriage, it's not as bad in at least my
church's eyes.
Yeah, I was told that like once you're married, kind of
anything is okay within the in the marriage bed, but I was
still not. Yeah, I was a little too uptight about anything
like that. So I still would have felt guilty.
We needed like a Mormon on the panel today. They had like all
the they have all the cool like loopholes like the poop hole
loophole is like you don't break your virginity.
Soaking. Yeah, soaking. Yeah, that's another one.
Let's put it in. Let's wait. Should we go met?
Or probably okay.
Probably okay.
Okay, homosexual attraction. So just being attracted to
someone.
Oh, hellbound.
It's like hellbound or hellbound.
Just being attracted.
Just being attracted, not having sex.
Yeah, I think just being attracted is very bad for not
no, but acting on it.
It's either it's that minimum very bad.
Yeah, yeah.
Okay, because what I've heard is attraction isn't a sin, but
acting on the exact same.
Yeah, yeah, attraction is the temptation.
And it's more about like it's also more about how it feels
like so like it's like how how wrong it kind of feels in that
purely culture kind of mindset as well. Because a lot of this
is very subjective, obviously. Homosexual sex. So hellbound,
well-bound. Oh, yes.
Yeah.
All right. Okay.
Oral sex. Now look at this.
Sorry, look at this.
Oh, my gosh.
What is that?
Wow.
It's somewhat of a papaya.
Papaya, yeah.
So so outside of marriage will say oral sex.
Oh, outside of marriage, that makes a huge difference.
That's very, very bad.
So bads and are very bad.
It's either bad or very bad.
Let's say bad.
I think bads and yeah.
Okay.
And just so you know, it was only ever about like with penises,
there was never a conversation about oral sex for a vaginas.
So like included in that.
I tried to be so I typed in man licking papaya because I tried
to make it inclusive.
I appreciate it. I saw that I'm pretty sure it wasn't inclusive growing up.
Kinky sex positions.
So we'll do this inside of marriage.
So I know some people like I would never do doggy style.
I think it's perverted or wrong or whatever.
I had I had those conversations with people growing up.
So where would we put this image here?
I think probably OK.
I'd say probably OK.
Probably OK.
In the confines of marriage, yes.
Yeah, it was in marriage.
I'd say OK.
OK, group sex.
So this is the image I used for group sex.
Oh, help out.
Oh, that's help out.
Help out for sure.
That's a nice little group hug.
Yeah, I know.
That's like sex thing.
So I've got someone under the sheets here.
Sex thing. I'm married.
Unmarried or even married or pictures involved.
Or is it bad?
No, no pictures.
Just just text.
Just like bad, pretty bad.
That's probably bad.
I'd say like that's to me.
I would have been told like that's kind of committing adultery.
But like that would be you're crossing a line.
You've already committed adultery.
That's what I would have been told.
Yeah, I would have been bad.
Where would you put it?
Very bad.
I would have thought they're very bad.
Interesting.
But I mean, you don't have to put it on mine,
but that's just what.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, interesting.
So you can put it at that, but.
Sending nudes and I couldn't get a nude photo.
I just have a dude looking in the mirror, taking a selfie.
Married or unmarried?
Very bad.
I'd say very bad.
We'll go unmarried.
Then very bad.
Very bad.
Very bad.
Very bad.
OK.
Heavy kissing.
In outside marriage.
Probably OK.
Yeah, I'd say OK.
Probably OK.
OK, OK.
Dry humping.
And I just got like a pile of sand here
because all I remember from dry humping is the rashes.
And there may be a little sin.
A little sin.
Yeah, a little baby's sin.
OK, a little baby's sin.
It's a baby's sin.
Soaking.
So this is what you mentioned before.
And I'm just fun-soaking.
No, no, no.
What is it?
Can someone explain what soaking is?
That's where a penis is in a vagina, but there's no thrusting.
And then I think what the cool kids are doing
is they have other people like stand on the bed
and like move the bed so that you're totally stationary.
The people have penis in vagina is not moving,
but there's then they're getting movement.
It's like group sex.
People are moving the bed.
I mean, that's what the cool kids are doing, I think.
I don't know.
It's like the idea is like it's the way you get around it.
So it's like you tripped and fell into your partner,
which is what's the right.
And then and then you're not moving.
So you're not having sex.
And then someone else jumps on the bed.
So it makes the movement of you guys moving.
So you're not in control.
Yeah, I guess at the end.
I have to know.
My upbringing would say that this would still be hellbound
because it's still genital sex.
Yeah.
So I think very bad, very bad.
I think that still would have been considered hellbound for me,
but outside of the range or inside of the range.
I think it has to be kind of be higher than just premarital sex,
surely.
Because you're still intercourse, but yeah.
But that is premarital sex, right?
Yeah.
I think on the same level.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's, yeah.
Contraception.
So this is something someone brought up who I think was a Catholic
or maybe is a Catholic, but taking the pill or using protection.
Let's pretend let me let's say like obviously before you're
maybe before you marry, just like, you know, you're preparing for sex, I guess.
So I know my wife, my wife got caught hooking up with someone
when she was 11 or 13 or something, really young.
And her mom's like, that's it, you're going on the pill.
And, you know, she went on the pill like straight away.
Just, you know, but there's some people who believe that
even preparing like that is a sin.
Yes.
I well, see, I was I was told that contraception
is the same thing as having an abortion and therefore the same thing as murder.
That's what I was going to say.
It's not just a sin when it's preparation, even if it is for purely
contraceptive purposes, some people still believe that it is a sin
because you're preventing that seed.
So where would we put just like someone using protection for protection's sake?
Is it like a meh or is it like a?
I'm going to be bad because you've thought it out that I think meh.
I think it depends on the the sex, too, because like Catholics are anti
like sex is just for procreation.
So then you're like going against God's will.
So that's I'd say pretty bad.
I've put it as bad.
OK, wet dreams.
So I know that you don't have any control over it,
but I know that some people would feel guilty about having a wet dream.
That guy looks like he is shitting his pants.
I typed in a man wakes up
in a man wakes up shocked and in a wet bed.
And it just is what it might look like.
So is that a meh or probably it's OK?
Or would you feel guilty if you had a wet stream?
It's one of my two.
I wouldn't put it any.
Yeah, I don't think you can control that.
And and not just probably OK.
If a girl has like a sexy dream or something.
Yeah, what qualifies the wet dream?
Like, is it just like if you have a I guess if you have like a sexy dream?
Yeah, I yeah, I still feel guilty.
Yeah, it feels guilty, but it's probably OK.
But be careful as in like the you can't control it,
but you'd still never feel good about it.
Yeah, I went to my church for prayer because of my sexy dreams.
Like, oh, really?
And asked like they like laid hands on me to like heal me.
Did you get rid of the did you believe it was like demonic?
Or like because I think I believed it.
I think I like, you know, I believed in this the psychology of it.
So for like two years, I used to them every single month.
And then for two years, I didn't have any sexy dreams.
And I was like, thank God, I'm like finally safe because I thought
my fear was they were so hot that I it made me want to do that.
So if I can feel myself from them and not think about it,
then I'm probably not going to. Oh, my God.
I think if I had told a small group leader
that I had had like a wet dream or like a sexy dream,
they would have said that it was a heart problem.
Like I'm not good with God in some way, like in a way.
Yeah. Mm hmm.
Giving a front hug.
So we used to have.
OK, this is this is a bit of a funny story.
But we used to have the Christian side hug.
You go up to the friends of the secretary
and you give them the Christian side hug.
And it's so funny.
One of my friends, he was a Christian, but he was just he was a bit edgy.
And he goes, you guys, I hate the Christian side hug.
And he's like, I like the satanic front hug.
He grabbed me and just put our groins together and just like.
And he's like, I like the satanic front hug.
And I was like, yeah, you can get.
You can get.
So, yeah.
So, so, so hugging.
How long is it lasting?
Yeah, these people look like they're embraced
for like a like they're enjoying it.
It's not like a good boy.
That's probably OK.
But you got to make sure that, like, you've established
that you're not going to go any farther than a kiss.
Like, you got to specify that upstairs and downstairs in contact.
Like, is it like this, like they're hugging like this?
Or are they like this?
They're OK.
We're talking high school dancing where we're arms length apart.
Not like, not like this, but more like this.
Yeah, OK, got it.
I'd say probably OK, but be careful.
Yeah, OK.
Yeah, it's something I don't think they would get mad at you
for actually as long as you were in a relationship.
Like, it's OK, but they'd be like, just be careful
that you don't go any farther than than a kiss.
Like, you'd get lectured about it,
but you wouldn't be told explicitly that it was a sin.
And last two, let's get through these, erotic fiction.
So women or men reading erotic fiction.
It's like bad center.
Yeah, that's bad.
Yeah, bad.
It depends, though, because for me in high school,
like, Fulton, our stars would have been erotic fiction
to like a ninth grader.
So I don't know because nobody's going to lecture me on that.
The other thing is like, I guess it matters, too,
on is it heterosexual or is it homosexual?
Because if it's homosexual fiction, go and help.
It's hellbound.
Yeah, 100%.
If it's heterosexual media, then, you know, just be careful.
Yeah, let's leave it.
Let's put it at the very best because it's the
yeah, because of the homosexual aspect as well.
And last one is manual sex.
So fingering and hand jobs and things like that.
And I've got an Asian lady, it looks like,
holding a bunch of eggplants and smiling.
OK, are they married or unmarried?
Unmarried, unmarried.
OK, OK.
I would say it's still very, very bad.
But we've had oral sex is bad.
OK, we can put it at bad then.
Yeah, I think man, because oral sex would be a step above that.
Should we bump up oral sex?
I think oral sex should be very bad and then hand jobs and all that bad.
Because OK.
So hellbound is group sex and homosexual sex.
OK.
But not premarital sex in there.
No, we should put premarital sex.
I think so.
I think that needs to escalate.
Yeah, those are like the top three for sure.
Yeah, yeah.
I feel like I definitely feel like
there needs to be like a tier above this, like hellbound but gay.
And then the gay stuff is definitely more definitely because like premarital
sex, you're committing the premarital sex part
if you have gay sex, but then you're bumping it up
and it's because it's gay as well and which is a no, no, right?
So like, yeah, yeah, it's a hard one.
As long as you're in a cis hetero relationship,
it's never going to be as bad as it could be.
Yeah, you could just you could just make a whole different chart.
That's like all of these but gay and just like put them all up.
And they all just go up one like.
Yeah, yeah.
