වවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවව
වවවවවවවවවවවවව
වවව඀වවවවවවවවවවවවවවවව඀වවවවවවවවවවව察 gonna play 😄
special podcast this week because we're not at the normal time slot because I'm interviewing someone finally from Australia so it's a it's a much more reasonable time to do a podcast especially one that you drink in however we're not drinking tonight and there's a good reason for that.
Before we get started I wanted to give content morning for themes of sexual abuse and institutional corruption, but feel free to ask any questions and we'll get Russell do his best to try and answer them at the end.
I just make sure you tag our deep drinks.
So without further ado I'll introduce Russell.
A guest today is Russell Manter.
Russell spent 23 years in prison after a series of bank robberies and miscellaneous criminal activities.
Russell was a victim of institutionalized sexual abuse being jailed with some of Australia's worst sex offenders despite only just turning 17.
The sexual trauma Russell experienced led him to cope with recreational drugs especially eventually leading to a $1500 a day heroin addiction.
Russell has since been rehabilitated and now runs a voice of a survivor which aims to help victims of institutional abuse, find justice through the legal system as well as advocating for social and political change.
The voice of the survivor has now helped over 16000 people tell their stories and begin the process for justice and healing.
Welcome Russell Manter.
Thank you so much.
Thank you for having me, I really appreciate it.
Your story is absolutely fascinating and I will promote it a little bit at the end but I did also want to mention that you have a book about your journey.
Unfortunately my copy didn't arrive in time so I didn't get a chance to read it all yet but it's a wild ride.
I've heard some of your stories on ABC and podcasts and things like that.
It's incredible what you've gone through.
It's been a tumultuous journey but in saying that someone said it to me tonight and I said it shaped me who I am today.
As much as there was a lot of bad things that happened to me, I like who I am today.
I no longer hate myself and I definitely have some self value and self worth and self belief.
I guess that part of where that comes from is healing from trauma and how you heal trauma.
You heal trauma with love.
In my healing journey I've received a lot of love that's brought me back to wellness and out of that I've got my self belief back.
I'm in a really really good spot.
I wish a lot of them things didn't happen to me but the fact of the matter is I've accepted that they do.
I'm not carrying around resentments and anger and everything about what happened to me.
I've made peace with it all.
It's a better place.
You've got a lovely partner as well.
I've been talking to her over email just organizing all of this.
I saw on one of your TikToks you said that you're punching way above and I'm the same.
My wife is stunning.
We have that in common.
Life's good, mate.
I pinch myself.
I've got a lot of gratitude.
I wake up and the gratitude lists five things.
I pinch myself at how good life is today.
It didn't always used to be this way.
I lived in a lot of pain for a long long long time.
I don't live like that these days and that's my choice.
That's the name of my business, the voice of a survivor.
It's not the voice of a victim.
It's not the voice of a victim.
It's the voice of a survivor because I'm a survivor.
I think there's that same, I love it.
They tried to bury me but I was a seed.
I grew out of it.
That's awesome.
We're drinking virgin mejitos tonight.
We were planned to.
We were planning to have a virgin diet coke.
I went to a ginger beer.
I'm really up to an organic ginger beer.
I'll tell you about it.
That's awesome.
You're sober.
How long have you been sober?
I had a couple of sleep apes.
If I had one beer, I'd call it a relapse.
I'll call it a relapse.
I think my biggest asset these days is how brutally,
brutally honest I am with myself.
I think I'm back to about two years or something like that.
I was twelve and a half years clean.
I was twelve and a half years clean as sober.
That's when the twoies dry first came out.
I thought I could have one of them.
That beer commercial stalked me and romanticised me.
I could have twoies extra dry.
I've never had one of them before.
The first time I drank one, I drank one.
Then I drank it again next week.
I went on this trajectory of...
I can't have one row of chocolate.
I smashed the whole block.
I know what you mean.
It is funny.
It is a Thursday night.
It's probably good that it's not a non-virgin mejito.
It's funny that the one night that Deep Drinks is that night time for me
where we're on sober drinks, which is great.
But it's awesome to hear that you've pulled yourself together through that.
Are you part of the NA or AA program or anything?
Yeah, I'm a big part of the NA.
I was very blessed to meet a guy who came in to do an NA meeting at Parramatta Jalen.
1987 in Parramatta Jalen.
He planted a few seeds in there.
He said, you don't have to suffer.
You can live a great life and have heaps of fun and a great life.
You don't have to drink a drug.
I didn't believe it, but he proved to me that you can.
That guy is still in my life today.
That guy is still in my life today.
He came into Parramatta Jalen.
He's still a part of my life.
He's someone that I bounce things off.
He's also an extremely successful businessman these days.
I've spent more time sober and clean than I have not.
I pick up a drug or a drink.
I get destroyed pretty quick.
I don't know how to stop.
How I stop is when I end up in jail.
I don't pick up because I don't want to.
I'm overrated.
It truly is.
I've got family members who have alcoholics and have issues with substance abuse.
I've seen how I can tear people and families apart.
Especially if you've got that personality where you can't...
You eat a bottle of chocolate or you drive down the street and get a second block.
That's what happens.
That's what I'd rather do.
I'd rather have a good life than a good night.
I'd rather create memories than a blackout.
Because if I drink, that's how it's going to happen.
I go out with any girl I've ever been with.
It's not an issue.
It's just not for me.
I accept that.
Don't get me wrong.
On a hot summer day, I'll see a freezing cold Peroni or something like that.
I'll get the same out of a little mineral water.
It's all good.
I don't ever feel out of place by not drinking or not drugging or anything like that.
I think it's...
For me, it's just about knowing my strengths and weaknesses and that brutal honesty with myself.
I'm never going to be able to have one of them.
People go, I tell you something about self-will.
Being an addict, take six box of laxities and get self-will to stop you from cheating yourself.
Exactly.
My addiction is way stronger than laxities.
Let me tell you.
I've heard someone in the NA program say something.
He said something really profound to me one time.
They said that they have an allergic reaction to alcohol and recreational drugs.
When they have one, they can't stop.
They just got to keep doing it.
I have an allergic reaction every time I'm taking my break out in handcuffs.
Yes.
That's so good.
That's so good.
I knew another guy in the program.
He said that his high power was a booze truck.
No, it was just normal trucks.
He drove past 20 bottles every day and went into one.
He said that he couldn't do that.
The truck was his high power.
That was hilarious.
It's funny how people in the program have their own analogies for themselves.
It's amazing that an addict or an alcoholic can be so creative.
I said in business.
My brother is a real big business network.
He took me to his business network one day.
He was really wealthy business people.
My brother said get up and tell your story.
I didn't think there was much of a story to tell.
I said I used to be a heroin addict and a bank robber.
My brother was going there.
I said I got the same traits as you guys.
I said I'm an obsessive compulsive.
You guys are obsessed about making your business a success.
If you were half obsessed, it wouldn't be a success story.
I said I used to be obsessed about getting on the drugs and drink.
They were looking at me and going it's the same trait.
It's the same trait, just a different movement.
I said when I'm clean and sober, I still have that trait.
I applied for business.
I can't go wrong.
It's like with the voice of a survivor, we started at humble beginnings.
That started on a barbeque table in Coffs Harbour on a one bedroom flat.
Now I employ 21 people.
I've got 16,000 clients.
I've worked with 39 different orphans in five years.
That had to be an obsessive trait to get to that.
Yeah, it's incredible how you've turned your life around.
I've been following a TikTok for many years.
Maybe for those who don't, a lot of the people who watch this channel are from America.
They probably don't know your story.
They haven't seen it on the news or anything like that.
Could you tell a bit of your story from how you first ended up in the boys' home when you were very young?
I grew up in a place called Mount Druitt.
It's not the end of the earth, but you can see it from there.
All my heroes were criminals like bank robbers.
The criminals in Mount Druitt were treated like return war heroes.
When they got out of jail, it was like the father was pushing his daughter out there.
Cheryl, don't you want to marry a boy like that?
Really?
Yeah, 100%.
He's the type of guy who will give you a good life for six months every five years.
At least you'll get some memories.
I grew up with my heroes in particularly bank robbers.
They had the best cars, the best clothes, and the best girls.
They looked like they were having fun and I wanted to be one.
Long story short, it wasn't long.
By the time I was 14 or 15 years old, I ended up in a boys' home.
The boys' home I had was a subject of a 60 minute story over here in Australia.
It had prolific sexual and physical abuse going on there and I didn't escape that.
So I went to that boys' home and I came home pretty well scarred and a massive void.
But I also came home more educated from crime.
I was like a college of crime.
About a year later, I got...
Is a boys' home, is that like a juvenile detention in America?
Is that the same thing?
Yeah, same thing.
And then a year later after getting out of the juvenile detention centre,
I stole a Porsche, a 930 twin turbo Porsche.
And I got on a police chase and I got arrested for that.
And then I went before a children's court judge
and the judge sentenced me to 12 months and stipulated to be served in an adult jail
to determine from future rear funding.
Well, let me tell you, Judge Nostradamus got that one wrong
because I ended up spending 23 years in prison.
When I went to prison that time, I was housed with some of the worst sexual degenerates in Australia at the time.
They put us in a protection wing for our own protection of the worst.
And once again, abuse took place.
And at this time, I was introduced to heroin and I got a taste for heroin
and heroin numbed all the shame and all the pain that I was going through.
And it just began a trajectory of more serious crime.
Yeah, so is protected custody in prison?
Is that where they put people who are likely to get killed
if they're out in the main area, the main wing?
Yeah, for sure, because they're really horrible crimes.
In the case of the bloke who sexually abused me,
he was a necrophiliac and a necrophilexer person who had sex with dead bodies.
And there was pedophiles that was just,
there would have been 100 blokes in that wing
and 70 of them would have been pedophiles.
And so it's not your fault.
You're there just turned 17.
Yeah, yeah, and it's just, it wasn't a place for a kid to be.
It wasn't a place to the faint hearted.
And I guess it was like filling a land to the lungs, you know.
You know, I don't ever think it should be the position of a sex offender
to deter children from future reoffending.
And that's what the basis of it really ended up being.
And I'm pretty sure that judge knew what would have happened
and why he was sending me to that in the particular, that place.
And he knew and I was really, really sad.
And you know, I ended up in jail as an 18 year old
and this time in a mainstream prison.
And I done my apprenticeship there as a bank robber.
I sought out the advice of a lot of bank robbers
and I sought out the advice of a lot of bank robbers
with intentions of getting out and being a bank robber.
Right.
So, initially, why do you initially get, go into a boy's home?
Like what was the initial crime?
I stole the car.
I was in a police chase.
Like, look, I was one of those kids that was car mad, you know,
from a very, very young age.
I wanted a hot it up car.
So I was car mad.
And all I wanted to do was drive a car
and I wanted to drive fast.
And, you know, like most young kids
and with no, you know, no respect for the law
or the rules, road rules or anything like that.
All I knew is I wanted to jump in cars, drive them fast,
do burnouts with the tyres and all that sort of stuff,
as young kids do, because it looks like fun.
And I wanted to have fun.
And that's what I did.
I got in a car chase and ended up as just a bum of the car.
I couldn't get away from any police chase.
And so I ended up in a boy's home,
which was called Derek Boy's home, West of Sydney.
And as I said, that's where the abuse really took place.
And it was just a horrible place.
It wasn't for, it wasn't like, it was just,
and I really think it was government sanctioned abuse
and it sort of came out in the wash that it was.
So, okay, so in the Derek Boy's home,
is that where you were first sexually abused by?
Yeah, yeah, by staff.
And it was by the staff members there?
Yeah, it was by the staff.
And it sort of came out in the wash.
They were running a pedophile ring out of there too.
So what was happening,
people were getting sexually abused at the night time.
And there was people in there that were sexual abused
and kids that you'd never seen before in your life.
And so they were obviously bringing them in
to sexually abuse the kids from the streets.
Some sort of pedophile ring was happening out of there.
So yeah, it wasn't good.
Whoa, so was this in the 80s on the 90s?
Early 80s, yeah.
Early 80s.
In 1982.
1982.
And so when you say sexually abused,
was it, I mean,
and feel free not to,
you don't have to go into any details or anything,
on the spectrum of being held down on rapes versus...
Yeah, right.
That was right, yeah.
It was right by two or three staff members at the time, yeah.
And that to me is just crazy
that staff could be in that position that would do that.
That was the amount.
It was the amount of them.
They were all in on it.
They were all in on it.
It was like crazy.
It was like pedophiles' paradise, you know.
That's so bizarre.
That's so bizarre that there wasn't one staff member that was like,
what the fuck is going on here.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, I think it was like, there was,
that's what I think it was government sanction.
I think, yeah.
And there was old women that worked there, right?
No, called matrons.
And you would think, you know,
some old woman, you'd tell them and they'd say,
I'll stop being a little liar, a little mongrel.
And then they'd make it worse
because they'd tell the perpetrator
that you're sort of telling on them.
Crazy.
I wonder if it was like so horrific
that they couldn't accept it.
So they...
Yeah, well, it's come out in the wash since.
In 2013,
I promised that Julie Gillard
introduced the Royal Commission of the Institution
in response to the Child Sexual Abuse.
It's all come out in the wash.
And it was the subject of a 60-minute story
a few years ago, what happened at Tharing.
How's the horrors of something they called it.
It's funny how a TV show gets involved
and people get charged.
That's the crazy bit about it, you know.
Yeah.
That's what it took for 60 minutes
to sort of expose it.
And then the sex crime squad
come along and start charging.
I think five or six officers got charged from it.
A lot of them had died.
There's one still going to trial as we speak.
But doing what all pedophiles do,
pulling the sick thing,
I'm too sick for this.
I'm too injured for it, you know.
Jeez.
So, and...
Okay, so then, you know, from there,
you rob another car when you get out of the boys' home
and you end up in, like, adult prison, jail.
Yeah.
And they put you in protection, I guess,
because you were so young.
Is that the reason they put you in protection?
Yeah, we're under age.
In Australia, you've got to be 18 years old
to be in a mainstream prison.
So, yeah, we're under age, and that's what they put us.
And we were told...
We were told...
We were told it was for our own protection.
And it was crazy.
It was so crazy.
We would have been better.
We would have been way safer
in a mainstream prison
without being surrounded by sex offenders.
Because back in them days,
all sex offenders were in protective custody.
Yeah.
Okay, and so,
was it like...
It wasn't the staff who were abusing you
in the second instance.
No, that was the pedophile.
It was like a convicted sex offender themselves.
Yeah, that's crazy.
It's just...
Is there any recourse?
If you're in that situation,
is there any recourse?
Is there anything you can do
if you're in prison or in jail
and you're getting abused like that?
Is there anything you can do?
One thing, kill them.
And you'd have to kill them really
because it's not going to stop.
The staff members...
Staff, back then,
the staff actually thought it was quite funny.
And if you said anything,
if anyone tried to report anything to the staff,
they would laugh off.
It's like a recourse, mate.
But they thought it was funny,
especially coming from a kid reporting it.
And their response would be,
oh, well, that'll teach it from stealing cars, won't it?
Yeah, and then,
obviously, if you're then snitching,
you'll get...
You've got that on your name as well.
I hope we see.
If people could...
Yeah.
There'll be another reason
for people wanting to perpetrate violence upon you.
Right, so can you...
So you get out of prison,
obviously at some stage,
and you're now addicted to heroin,
and that builds up to a pretty big habit.
Yeah, well, I sort of...
I had a taste for heroin,
and I had a taste for it.
So I got out,
and I knew the layout.
I knew where to score heroin,
because they'd tell you,
and my mother at this stage
had moved to a place called Liverpool,
which is back then,
Cabra Matter in the western side of the city
had a heroin epidemic.
So I was right on it.
I was right near it,
so I don't have to jump my back fence.
And I had a 20-minute walk,
and I'd be able to score heroin.
And that's what I did,
because at the end of the day,
I was emotionally suffering
from serious trauma.
I've been seriously traumatised
by sexual abuse,
and I had this massive void in me.
I had this whole heap of shame.
And the only time I had any remission from it
is when I was on heroin.
And that was the only time
I didn't feel all those horrible things.
And I was going to use as much heroin as I could
to escape them feelings.
Them feelings were...
That was a nightmare,
living in that nightmare.
So the only time I wasn't in that nightmare
was when I was under the influence of heroin.
And I wasn't stopping.
I wasn't stopping.
But before I went to the boys' homes,
I didn't have that.
I was a pretty happy sort of go lucky kid.
Hmm.
So did...
Does it take...
I don't know too much about heroin
or about jail or prison or anything.
I haven't been to jail myself.
Haven't even been arrested.
It's over, right?
It's over.
Yeah.
I imagined it.
It's not like in the brochures.
It's a holiday and all that.
Food.
Yeah, I was...
Actually, maybe we can circle back,
because I wanted to ask you about that,
is what some common misconceptions
people have about prison or jail?
Well, you know,
often in the media,
it's portrayed as, you know,
being a hotel or resort like things.
In the 23 years, I was...
I was in...
I never encountered any prison that resembled
a resort or a hotel.
And if you stay in a hotel or a resort,
you know, something that resembles,
you know, what the prison...
Mate, you're being robbed.
You want your money back.
I'll tell you, because...
No, you are.
And I'm telling you.
So...
I stay in a lot of hotels in the work I do,
and I haven't come across one yet
that resemble the prison.
So...
And that's that.
And another misconception is you go in there
and you get really dilatating,
because that's a lot of shit.
You don't go in there.
We live in punitive systems.
You go in there to get punished, you know.
And sometimes that punishment
supersedes the crime.
Like, at the end of the day,
the punishment would be this.
You've had your liberty taken off you.
You can't.
Look, you're confined to a certain space.
You can't vote.
You can't see your children.
You can't engage in family stuff.
And I think that's where the punishment should stop.
You know, it should really finish.
It doesn't need to be...
You know, you have violence perpetrated
on you by officers,
because they just want to be tough guys
and stuff like that.
So what do you think about...
Like, if you could design, you know,
the perfect jail,
like, how would you...
So if we assume that our goal is to rehabilitate criminals
and get them back for functional members of society,
how would you...
What would you...
How would you do it?
Well, first of all, I'll give you an analogy.
I'll give you one analogy.
Your car breaks down, right?
You don't kick all the panels in,
smash all the windows in,
push it in your garage
and pull it out in six months.
I don't think it's going to be fixed.
What you do is you lift the bonnet up
and you have a look what's under the bonnet
in regards to that.
And when I...
And you could use the reference,
you could use the lift the bonnet up analogy
is, you know,
lifting up and working on trauma.
That's amazing what happened to me,
for me personally,
is when they got it right with me,
they identified I was suffering from serious trauma.
They give me trauma counselling
and it's amazing what come of it.
They just...
It was so simple.
As soon as they got that right,
it was like,
look at me now,
like today I'm actually...
I pay a little bit too much tax.
Like their investment
in trauma counselling for me,
that was an investment
because look what I'd like.
You know, I employed 21 people.
I was an investment.
I look at sort of Norway
who would...
Norway's got the lowest recidivism rate in the world
where some of the American jails
are got the highest.
The American privatised system
looks at it as prisoners
as an investment for the industry, right?
And the Norwegians
look at their prisoners,
their prisoners' rehabilitation as an investment
for when they get out
and they be contributing members of society.
So there are ways to look at it, isn't it?
Like the private jail sort of stuff
or a private organisation
makes the money.
But the public make the money
when you send someone out to be
a law-abiding citizen
and they pay tax.
That is two different ways.
Yeah, you see,
you're hitting on all the questions
I was excited to ask
because for me the...
So for me the public system
makes more sense.
It feels funny.
But I've got a friend who thinks
that we should move to a private system.
And the reason he mentioned this
was because he studied
some sort of criminology
at university.
But he said that
the cost of imprisonment in Australia
is between $61,000 to $136,000 a year
and privatisation would cut that down.
But there's still something to me that feels...
He thinks there should be privatisation
with regulations
but that still feels a bit funny to me.
What are your thoughts about privatisation?
Look, I've been to private jails.
I've been to private jails.
One, the food's better.
Opportunities for education
are a lot better because the problem is
with the public system is
they get all this funding
and the prison officers think
all that money should go to them.
So instead of rehabilitation
like running courses or anything like that,
they start stamping their feet
and doing strikes and everything like that
until they get their own way.
So the budget gets consumed on their wages.
Like, mate, there's some
unemployable people in them sort of jobs
that should not be around human beings.
They're just...
They're not fit to be around other human beings.
And so that's another part of it.
Or you've got these people that are
so...
Like, just got no qualifications.
Got nothing.
They just get in their job
because it's an easy job to get into.
They get in there full of resentments.
Like, I'll give you an example.
I was down at
Goldman Prison years ago
and there was an officer there
that was notorious
for ripping up people's photos
of their children.
He just loved ripping up your photos
and trying to get a reaction out of you.
So I done a doctor fill on him
and I said, mate, you...
I'll just... I said, I know you.
I said, mate, rip up my kids and my photos.
It doesn't bother me, mate.
I just want you to know
you're not getting a reaction.
You want me to hit you
so you can get a compensation claim.
That ain't happening.
I said, but you know, you go home
and you go up your driveway
and your wife sees you coming
and she dreads you
and she can't copy you.
The only thing she reason why she does copy you
is you're a breadwinner.
Kids see you come
and they walk off on their own
and put their headphones on
and jump into a computer game
or whatever because they can't copy you.
The dog hates you.
He goes under the house.
You grab the remote control
and hog the TV.
Don't wash up out yourself
and get up and do it all again.
Like round hog day, you know?
And I said, but then one day, mate,
you turn up and they're gone.
Family, the car's gone.
They're packed.
They've gone to live with the sister
in fucking Queensland.
Because no one likes you, mate.
Because you can't differentiate.
You can't be a horrible person
here all day
and then go home and be a nice person.
Us humans ain't built that way.
Yeah, okay, Dr Phil.
About six weeks later,
he comes up and he's got tears in his eyes.
He goes, mate, everything you said was true.
And he says, mate, how do I change this?
I said, start here, mate.
Be decent.
See, then ones that ain't decent
are just traumatising already traumatised people.
And you know, what do you want to do that for?
Where's the victory in traumatising
with traumatised people?
I think the big thing
we've changed in rehabilitation
is identifying trauma.
Showing people what trauma is about.
Because how can someone be remorseful
to their victims
when they've, you know,
no empathy's ever been shown to them
because they don't know what empathy is.
Empathy's a lone thing.
You've done the wrong thing
and you should feel bad about it.
Why should I feel bad about it?
I've had bad things done to me
on a daily basis,
bad things out.
And I don't seem to feel bad about it.
It's interesting, too,
because from...
We act like
prison's supposed to be like rehabilitation.
But from...
But the public,
they say they want rehabilitation,
but a lot of the time they want retribution.
If someone hurts them or their family,
they just want retribution
which serves no purpose
other than to make them feel
a certain way for a certain amount of time.
But...
So...
But do you think...
I guess the second part is,
and the tricky part is,
how do you determine...
Do you think there are people
who cannot be rehabilitated,
who are like too...
Yeah, I'm sure there is.
I'm a broken...
Martin Bryant, maybe, or...
Yeah, he's...
Martin Bryant,
a lot of sex offenders,
like, how can you change someone's sexual preference?
Like my sexual...
I'm a heterosexual guy,
I like a certain type of woman, you know,
and a gay person is a heterosexual...
or a homosexual person,
and a lesbian is a lesbian,
and I like a certain type of woman.
How can you change someone's sexual preference?
Well, like, what do you do?
Like, you can't make them read a book.
And you can't make them read a book.
The thing is, their sexual preference is children.
And you can't change them.
And I mean,
let's give me the bullets
and I can frame the gun,
and I'll sort it.
I'm not a problem.
I've got men because they're people.
Because they create the next drug,
they create the next person,
the propensity for violence,
they create the next self-harm,
they create the next prostitute,
and they create the next dysfunctional.
So, but why and why?
The courts love them
because they keep and they keep
the wheels of justice turning, don't they?
They create all those people.
So why would the courts get tough
and give them these massive...
and take them out of the game?
The courts see the people as the people
who keep them in business.
It's not silly.
You can't tell me they're not getting...
You can't tell me that they're not getting,
like, advisers telling them that.
I'm just a boy from the left school in 14.
I can work it out.
Yeah, it's hard one too
because I think a lot of people don't like to see
attraction to children
as an orientation
I think it is.
I don't know.
I'm not an expert.
But there's a large group of people
who fucking hate the fact
that they are attracted to children.
They never will abuse a child
and they have this thing
that they want to remove,
or at least, I don't know.
There's like, I think you can go to the doctor
and get, you can take medication
that will remove your sexual desires
and things like that.
And they do things like that.
So at the moment it's like,
there's people who are attracted to children
and then there's like,
who are pedophiles, I guess,
and then there's child abusers
who are people who have acted...
I'm a big thing.
I just talked about this before.
I think that people who view child porn
are just as bad as the pedophiles themselves.
There shouldn't be a charge of possession
of child porn.
It should be accessible before and after the fact.
People wouldn't be making child porn
if it wasn't for people wanting to watch it.
Yeah, it's horrible.
And there's a victim in that always as well.
So when it comes to those child abusers,
there's a famous story about
I don't know how true it is,
but one of the people,
Mark Brandon Troporid killed in prison
was a pedophile
and the screws apparently let him in
because the pedophile was so vicious
that he cut a girl open with a jam tin
because he couldn't essentially fit.
And this little girl, he cut her open and killed her,
raped and killed her.
And the screws let him in
and he confessed to it at the end of his life
and everything.
But it's like,
can that person ever be rehabilitated?
Or if they can't be,
let's say they can be rehabilitated.
Let's say you can get them to be a functioning
member of society.
Is it worth the risk of ever letting them out into society?
So maybe they're rehabilitated
but they're still not allowed out.
I don't know.
I want my children being around them.
I mean, I wouldn't want my children.
I just wouldn't want anyone should, not just mine.
I just wouldn't want the suffering
that goes with that sort of stuff.
And a journey like,
I don't want to see someone hooked on drugs
as a coping mechanism.
And then they go through the court system
and then they get smashed up
because they're deemed to be this horrible person.
Things a bit unfair.
When you know what's happened here
and you're going before the courts
and you're telling you what a horrible
vicious person you are and you must be punished.
You go, well, what about the people
who created all this rubbish?
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
So in regards to rehabilitation,
like what can some like let's say
you had a magic ability
to introduce some things into the current system.
What would you suggest?
I've got it.
I'm trying to sell a program,
promote a program to them now, it's called Rewind.
So we go in and we ask some questions.
The question is, what's the underlying issue
of your offending behavior
and you say, well, I'm a drug addict.
Well, okay, what's the underlying issue
of your drug addiction?
Okay, it's trauma.
Well, that's where we start.
Well, this is where we lift the bonnet up
and find out about the trauma.
We work with trauma, we identify the trauma
and what we can do with the trauma
to address it.
So the trauma, the drug addiction
after the trauma has been identified
is a walk in the park.
Because when you know why you use drugs
and what the triggers are and you've got that,
the addiction itself is like, okay,
we've got this awareness.
This is the underlying issue of the drug addiction.
This is where, and that's the engine room of it.
I know every cog in the engine
and how it operates and how it operates.
So I have an awareness of the engine of the trauma
and the engine of the drug addiction.
Once we start and say, it'll become,
then we talk about the alternatives to drug addiction.
So we're identified our feelings
and our triggers and what's going on.
We have an awareness of why my thoughts are like this
and what's going on.
You're in it, you've got the front row seat.
It's like the dig screens in front of you
and you can see it all playing out.
So you address that, you do the drug addiction
and then you go, okay, what's lacking in your life?
Okay, you're mostly because
apart from a young age or whatever,
you've actually lacked qualifications.
So, yeah, so we address,
we give some qualifications.
In Australia, there's a massive shortage of tradespeople.
So we work on the trade.
So if someone's doing six years, we say,
look, if you do a completed trade,
you will let you out in four years as an incentive
and they address their trauma,
they address their drug addiction
and they get out with some qualifications
that allow them to be productive members of society.
It's not fucking, this shit ain't rocket science.
And we'll talk about it right now.
A few years ago,
there was a $474 million budget
to address the drug eyes
and it all went to policing.
Now I'm telling you, I'm here at Piermont, right in Sydney.
And within two kilometres of here,
I could score ice 10 times.
So the $474 million was a waste of money
because it went to policing, right?
But imagine if we use that $474 million
to get prisoners out of jails
that were heavily...
Looks like we may have just lost Russell.
Yeah, sorry, someone's trying to ruin me.
So imagine that we use that money
to get people out.
Now these guys turn up
from prison in a prison van in handcuffs
and they walk in the classrooms
and tell kids why they shouldn't use ice.
You know?
Yeah.
That is more effective.
I think way more effective
because the policing thing is a lot of shit.
The war on drugs.
Who on earth is stupid enough to believe
that they're ever gonna win that?
Yeah, well it can never be...
Yeah, yeah.
I think that's the whole point
of the war on terror, the war on drugs.
It's all the same.
It's like the things that can't be won
so you can just make...
In Australia we have the assistant commissioner
of the biggest crime commission.
Crime commission here is the biggest policing,
the most powerful policing.
The second in charge of the crime commission
got pinched for important precursors to make ice.
Jeez, I didn't know that.
That's crazy.
Where does it start?
I've got a question for you.
How do you feel about the decriminalization of drug use?
100%.
Really?
100%.
Look in Portugal where they decriminalize drugs completely.
The crime rate dropped by 60%.
Drug use dropped by about 30% in two years
so the drug use itself.
Like tell me this, right?
What's the difference between heroin and alcohol?
One's legal and one's not?
Yeah?
Yeah, I think even if you look at the index
on like how harmful they are for society,
they're actually pretty comparable for both.
100%.
But you've got this big nastiness hanging over heroin
because it doesn't fit the bill.
Like people, you say someone uses heroin
and it's like the bill.
But if someone drinks a few beers, he's all right.
I'll tell you something now.
Someone doesn't have a shot of heroin
when they go home and beat their wife up.
I'll tell you that.
You can have a beer.
That's true.
You might go home and not off and fall asleep
in front of the TV on heroin,
but you're not going to do that.
So look at the end of the day.
Look, if we, if we don't have a shot of heroin
and we don't have a shot of heroin,
we're not going to do that.
We're not going to do that.
Not if we legalized heroin,
not everyone's going to be.
It's not like not everyone drinks.
And I could tell you the thought of like heroin
doesn't sort of have that appeal.
Like imagine if we legalized the time,
I'm telling you, not everyone's going to use it.
Not everyone's going to try it because it looks scary.
At least it's, at least you know what you're getting as well.
Like even for people who do want to use it,
they can get safe needles.
They can get safe, you know,
not advocating for people to use it,
but at least in that way.
But I reckon less people would use it.
It was, it was, not everyone would.
It's just you're taking away that criminal thing.
So you don't have to engage in crime to get it.
They can get on the chemist and get it.
The tricky one would be ice.
The tricky one for me would be ice and amphetamine
because man, that stuff is an immediate dose of insanity.
Yeah. Have you ever, have you ever taken?
Yeah, I've used ice.
Yeah.
I've got a predisposition for mental health issues, right?
Yeah.
Some people can be on ice for three days and not sleep.
If I have ice any hour later,
I'm going to be in a mental institution.
I just, I'm just allergic to it.
Yeah.
I'm really badly allergic to it.
It just doesn't work for me.
I think I might be borderlines by polar or schizophrenic
or something like that.
And I just amplify as it brings it right out,
brings it right to the surface and all that.
Yeah.
These, I've got the, this,
the graph that I was talking about before up.
You might not be able to see it on your phone,
but I've got it here.
So for dependency potential heroin is on the very high line.
But alcohol is actually not much further down,
down from that.
And it's also towards the lethal dose.
So when it comes to like marijuana,
marijuana is like moderately low for dependency and,
you know, it's lethal dose.
But alcohol and heroin are back on your right hand side
of this graph here.
Yeah.
It's actually quite interesting.
Caffeine's in the middle, which is weird.
But I can't live without coffee.
Yeah.
Have you, have you become like a swapper for the bitch,
but with a coffee?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I've got to have two triple shots every day back to back.
Yeah.
I've got to have a hard starter and,
but you know what the sad part about it is,
you know, you know, like,
look, I went to a party once and,
and all the boys,
all the kids were smoking pot, right?
And this kid turned up and his mother dropped him off.
He was a child actor and he was one of his kids that was like,
he had real hands on parents, right?
So he was highly, he was a highly validated kid.
He knew he's part of the family unit.
He knew he's part of society from a young age.
He felt really good about himself.
And I remember one of the boys going to him,
my mate, you want to have a smoke pot?
He goes, what, what do you guys,
he goes, I'll make you feel good.
He goes, I'll make you feel good.
He goes, and he goes, oh, you'll be one of the boys.
He goes, oh, I've got to smoke pot to be one of the boys.
I want to be one of the boys if I've got to do that shit to myself.
And I thought, fuck it, just a really well-rounded kid
and it all stuck with me.
And I sort of looked at that kid's life
because he was a child actor.
He never went on to be fucking Mel Gibson.
But I daresay that kid had a really good understanding
of who he was.
And I think that was really, really good pairing on
whatever they've done to that kid.
Like they've raised that kid really well
to sort of understand man,
you don't have to be part of anything like to, you know,
you're fucking wonderful, you're beautiful.
He was a validated human being that kid.
Like he knew his place in society.
And I think, you know, a lot of that is lacking.
I think parents these days get too busy with work
and careers and everything like that.
And they take the hand off the wheel, you know.
And it's not their fault.
People are going to make it earned.
Oh, yeah, no, it's like victims create victims
and everyone's a victim to something I guess.
But yeah, yeah.
But there's, I remember specifically I had a friend
and he, you know, I wasn't drinking
or taking drugs or anything at the time.
I was like sober, I've been sober for like 12 months
because the way I grew up,
I thought you either did it all the time
or you didn't kind of, you know,
or you didn't do it at all.
And I always, you know, I'm someone now
who I can have in the occasional drink.
I know I'm not like some of my relatives
who have got that thing in their brain
where they can't stop.
But something that really hit me with this person,
this friend of mine is they would smoke weed a lot.
And then they're like, oh, got to study for an exam.
And then they would not smoke weed
or drink alcohol for two months
because they got to work at uni.
And I'm going, how do you just switch it?
Like to me, that would be like,
and he's like, yeah, well, he's like,
or, you know, he'd go to smoke weed
or drink or whatever.
And he's like, oh, he's like, don't really need it tonight.
I'm not really feeling it.
I'm just going to, you know,
I want to go for a surf tomorrow morning
or I'm going, I'm starting to train more about running.
So, and I'm just, he had this relationship
with the drug and alcohol
that was super balanced.
And I'd never seen that in my life.
Very rare.
And I think that it reminded me of that guy
you just mentioned that, you know, the, the actor,
the child actor, because it's like,
it's this, it's this relationship of like,
just because everyone else is doing,
you don't need to do it.
If you can get away with, you know, having a drink
and not being an alcoholic, fantastic, great.
You know, even have a couple of drinks, fine.
No, it's all good.
It's all good.
But there are some people who can't do that.
And then secondly, it's all about balance.
If you can do that, you still got to have balance.
You can get stuck where you're drinking too much
or it's robbing you.
And that's with anything.
Eating too much.
I eat too much.
I'm overweight.
I'm trying to lose weight.
I can see your, I imagine you're,
you're a gym junkie as well.
Yeah.
I'll try every day.
I'm trying every day.
But that's part of my mental health routine.
But there's a singer called Paul Kelly
and Australian singer called Paul Kelly.
He's a social heroine user.
But just socially, you know,
he was a social heroine user.
Like, and he talks about his creativity
when he was on it or coming off it or whatever.
Like, like he just said,
he just never let it get old of him.
You know, I know people.
I know, you know, I knew this really big drug importer
and I was in jail with him.
And one day I suspect, I said,
mate, have you had a shot?
And he starts laughing.
He's that off.
He goes, yeah, I have one now.
And he goes,
I've done it my whole life.
And he goes,
man, I might have won every six months
and he said, I like it.
Yeah.
That's the,
I know people who smoke cigarettes like that.
But I have a cigarette every,
I have one cigarette.
Yeah.
And I,
because I used to smoke,
but when I started smoking,
it was like, that's it.
I'm smoking like,
and I was on wider,
I was smoking white ox.
And like,
I just can't get the idea of that
smoking anyway.
Yeah.
I've never tried a cigarette in my life.
I,
my dad died of infesema
when I was a young age
and I just didn't appeal.
I mean,
I thought, fuck, I ain't going out that way.
Yeah.
It looks,
it looks horrible.
Yeah.
Infesema.
You know,
when I was funny with alcohol,
with my,
I remember when I was about 14,
I remember having a drink
and my,
and my parents said,
don't drink out in the street.
Just drink in the backyard
so we can keep an eye on you.
Don't hurt yourself.
Yeah.
I was like this,
it's hitched up
and I'm like,
fuck it.
And my dad waved
the bottle of scotch
and I had a couple of
and I vomited the next day
and the next day
he came in with a bottle of scotch
and said,
do you want to go again?
I was,
I've never drank scotch since
and I was never
a really big drinker.
You know.
Yeah, right.
I was never a real big drinker.
Unfortunately,
you can't do that
with heroin or
too much heroin.
Too much heroin.
A big shot of heroin
in the city
and man,
have another one the next day
and I wouldn't take it.
I mean,
it's,
yeah,
it's crazy.
I'd love to see the,
I,
I,
I,
I've done a bit of work.
I'm doing a bit of work
at the moment
with an ex,
a cop called Keith Banks
and Keith Banks
is one of metal,
like two bravery metals
as a cop
and he's a big supporter
of decriminalising.
He was an undercover cop
in the drug squad
and he's a big believer
in decriminalising drugs
and,
you know,
and he's a big believer
in that prisons don't work
and,
you know,
I don't,
I recently done a podcast
with him
I'm going to do something
with him
and I'm pretty sure
him and I'll get a few gigs together
where he supports
what I say,
you know,
decriminalise them.
You know,
there's a lot of people
sitting in jail
that fucking shouldn't be like,
but we're nearly at that stage
with pot with,
you know,
we're a pubic care away
from it being legalised
and
the greens,
the greens
that were pushing it through
or something,
they were like
putting a lot of pressure
look at Canberra
where all the politicians
as legal down there,
all the good stuff is legal
where the politicians live,
the brothels are legal,
the partners legal,
you know,
as long as they're all right,
you know,
I don't give a shit about anyone else.
They got their brothels,
they can go there
and smoke as much pot as they want
and there's not a fucking issue,
you know what I mean?
Yeah,
that's funny.
So,
I want to get into,
so,
there is a,
I hope it's a funny story,
I've heard you tell it in a funny way,
so,
so,
I'd love to kind of hear it again,
but,
but I'd love you to tell the audience
about like,
you went on a run from the
the cops on the stage.
Yeah, I escaped.
You escaped.
Yeah,
how'd that happen?
I went to court,
I went to court at camp
in Sydney
and
look,
we had some homemade handcuffs,
so we had our handcuffs
when we come off a prison van
and we done this little test
in jail and we threw
in people's eyes
and they just,
when you threw
a handful of salt in someone's eyes,
unexpectedly,
the first thing they do is cover up,
so we come off a van
and we threw the salt in the cop's eyes
and they cover it up
and they just give us that
two seconds to run around them
and we run around them
and we got,
and we got,
and we got away
and anyway,
I was up in the northern territory
which is the north of Australia,
desolate place
and I just robbed the bank
and my co-ocuse had been pinched
at the airport,
he'd been apprehended at the airport
jumping on the plane
and I decided to go on a bus
and so I was on this bus anyway,
I was pulling up at
a place called Alice Springs
in the middle of Australia
in the desert
and anyway,
through the night
I thought,
well, I better go incognito out here,
so I tried to dress up
like a backpacker,
I bought a cobra hat
with some corks,
very Australian
and I love Australia T-shirt
and I bought a pair of
second hand hiking boots
and
and I jumped off
trying to look like
the Swedish tourist
and anyway,
anyway,
so I jumped off the bus
and all these coppers
jumped all over me
and I was going,
what are you doing,
you're a bully?
They're going,
you're a russle man,
oh my name is Hans,
I'm from Sweden.
I'm looking at this girl
who was like,
Norwegian and so on,
I'm saying,
Helga, Helga,
call the embassy,
I'm being attacked,
I'm being bullied.
I'm saying,
get off me,
you bully.
And then
looking at each other,
these coppers,
we've got a diplomatic
incident going on
and we've got the wrong bloke
and
and then
this old cop walks up
and his name was Les Smith
and he had a rolly
cigarette and he out
and he goes,
get a answer in Sweden,
he goes,
if you've got a tattoo
on your back,
if you haven't got a tattoo
on your right shoulder,
bloke,
he said,
I'll let you go
and he lifted it up
and he goes,
all right,
Neliados
Neliabheek
Oh,
can you imagine,
those coppers
were so relate
that it was actually me,
they were so.
Oh, that's,
just to pull it off
to be so committed to that,
you put on the voice
and it's just.
Yeah,
it was giving it a go
and God loves the trial,
so they say
you know,
and I was sort of,
ក� conquest  AGKen- A Those were times when I moved away from travelling
structural rackets.
ឋ category 6 in dow 제 aṭe金
scenery 6 x 10
motor
ថb ʂak ʔ Si ʧab ʕai xaa
ʔ
ʔ
ʔ
ʔ
w親i —
ʔ
absolut not even a mattress. In jalan d0 nuances a lot of
like saunas so heavily. you got schai pan
yourself. so you can imagine. it's like bean in the
sauna and I went from ninety f0 keB as in that
period of the time. wrong although it did have good a
ab as a result of it. but
Wunifting will kYOhsi
ievers only qCp
Mistress
ව pour чтоch
ව ව sign
ව sign
ව sign
The screws had to turn the hot water on from outside of the yard where the shower was, and it was often boiling hot, so I was bird bathing in the shower, in the cell like out of a bubbler for nine months, because I just really didn't want to give them the power to do something bad to me.
So in your cell you didn't have a mattress?
No, I was on a concrete slab.
For nine months?
Nine months, yeah.
No pillow, no blanket?
No pillow, no blanket.
Up there, it was so hot, you basically made it at the time for nine months, had a pair of shorts that if an officer turned up you had to put a pair of shorts on.
But yeah, nine months, and I was subjected to a lot of violence.
They had like a riot squad who used to try to test how tough they were on them.
And I was there with bells, and they initially came in and said, you'd be willing to have a one-on-five on the opposite side, and they said, mate, with bells you're talking about language all day.
And then I was punching on with these screws on a daily basis for five days a week, they give me the weekends off to recover and heal.
And that went on for a few months, and then one day I just said, I'm not doing this anymore, because you used to get more joy out of it than me, and I hate it and get any joy out of anything.
And really, I don't know, just give me this real steel resolve.
I don't recommend it, because that sort of isolation is sort of no real good on your head.
Because I used to go for weeks on a time doing this thing where I didn't think I'd just go completely blank, and your mind's not built that way.
That is so unhealthy for your mind.
And yeah, I don't know.
Today I think I've got a lot of strength out of what I put myself through.
Because at the end of the day, I put myself through that, not them.
If I never committed those crimes, I wouldn't have been in a position for them to be able to do that to me.
I'm just going to have to move this for a sec, because my phone's going to go down, I've just got a good spot.
Yeah, no problem.
Well, I'm just getting that around.
Yeah, and that's the way it, you know, it's one of those things how I come to realisation,
I come to realisation whilst I was in that unit.
Like, I come to realisation and I was the one who created that hell.
And I had to sort of center myself, you know, how do I stop this?
And the first thing I had to do was sort of say, I can't use drugs anymore.
And I stopped, you know, when I came out of there into a normal unit, I was like nine months clean.
And that was a really good platform to get clean.
I've been going on for the 12 and a half years clean.
But it built something in me, it built something in me that I think I still have today.
You know, not much can rattle me.
Look, I look, I still suffer from depression.
And, you know, and I've really, the last week has been a real battle for me.
You know, I've got a few things that are going on in my personal life,
but it's been a real battle for me.
But I hang in there and I don't pick up drugs.
And I, because I know drugs is and drinking it.
Like I'm here now and there's little mini bars, got champagne and all different types of beer.
I won't, I won't even, a thought even won't even go into that.
Because I know it's not the answer for me.
I just know that healthy alternatives like training, reading a book, diverting my mind from those thoughts.
That depression and that sort of thing is the answer.
I just, I'm adamant these days about drugs and alcohol.
Hmm. How did, how did drugs get into prison?
I've always been perplexed by that.
No liquidity for prison officers.
Like, you know, you go to a car park of a prison and a prison mate.
You see the one who's smuggler.
The one who's got the best cars, the biggest smuggler in the jail.
If he's got a hundred thousand dollar car mate, you know he's having a smuggler.
That way he's got three investment properties.
He's a smuggler.
That's very lucrative for prison officers.
But in saying that, the most common use drug in prison these days is called bupomorphine.
It's an heroin substitute and it comes in a plastic, like a plastic dissolvable strip.
One of them at a chemist is worth $2.50.
In prison it's worth $800, you know, or up to $2,000.
So an officer gets a hundred of them, mate.
There's a hundred thousand dollars he can make of a hundred dollar investment or a $200 investment.
Interesting.
Now, he'd have no problem selling them.
He'd have someone who'd just buy the lot.
Because if you've got all the beaut, you control the jail, you know.
If you've got the drugs, you control the jail.
You control the soldiers.
Right.
Is there a lot of racism in Australian jails?
Very rampant, rampant.
And the biggest racist of all are the prison officers themselves, you know.
Really?
How we treat our indigenous in our prison system is just really rotten.
It's disgusting.
And if people in the public could see the lamps they go to and, you know, it's disgusting.
It's really disgusting.
It's something that, man, I grew up with indigenous brothers and sisters out at Mount Drill where I grew up.
Man, we never ever for one second ever had a racist thought in my body.
And just disgusting what I'd seen prison officers do like and how they, there's no doubt.
There's been cases, high profile cases here.
And I could think of the case of Dungay where they just murdered him.
They murdered him and got away with it.
You know, they murdered him and got away with it.
That's crazy.
I'm glad you said that.
There's a lot of something I've noticed about indigenous Australians.
I know hardly anything about indigenous Australia.
And, you know, this was their country before the English come until we come and took it over, you know.
And it's like, it blows my mind how much, you know, they were here for 40,000 years.
You know, and it's like, and it's just just the way that they're, I guess, perceived and like how little I know and how little like the average person knows about about their culture.
The, you know, just it makes me, it makes me kind of take a long, hard look at myself and then, you know.
It's a beautiful guy called Joey Williams.
And Joey Williams was an indigenous guy and he's got in that program called the enemy within.
And yeah, it's just, it's like, one of my favorite books is Raising Boys by Steve Buildup and Manhood by Steve Buildup.
It's all about like how boys grow up and how men are raised and all through it, he quotes the aboriginal culture.
It contains indigenous culture about the old elder system and how they raised boys like they didn't use psychologists.
They all were psychologists and their communities were all about accountability.
And, you know, they were just great.
It was never a mother and a father the whole, I was a village.
Yeah, raised by, yeah.
My wife and I recently gone through IVF or having our first baby and we're looking for stuff.
Thank you.
We're looking for stuff to decorate the room with and I found this which blew my mind.
I actually ordered it.
It's a map of the languages and people of the First Nations of Australia.
Beautiful.
I'm not sure if you can see that there, but there's so much that, like I'll zoom in where you're down near Sydney, this area.
So like there's so many like cultures and groups that, you know, I have no idea what history or culture these groups and these nations and these languages had.
Like it's just, it's amazing.
So going to stick it on the wall.
Yeah.
Raise the kids right, you know, show them kind of the history of our beautiful country.
And as a first step to learning more about that.
Oh man, I don't jail at the old springs and I had an incident there and there's a guy like they got the elders there, right?
And this bloke spilt some tea on an old elder and I was a white fellow and he didn't apologize.
It was only me and him there.
Me and him and the white fellow there.
And I'm pretty sure that guy was a sex offender.
It was white guy.
And I said, go and apologize to the old fellow.
And he said, no, no.
And he made some rations for that.
I said, go and apologize to him or there's going to be drama between me and you.
And he rolled the dice and said, well, it'll be drama between you.
Well, I told the old fellow.
I said, don't worry about him.
I said, I'll take care of that.
I said, I'll sort it out.
And I said, come around, go around to the laundry after lunch.
And I said, I'll sort it.
So it's cold with that bloke around.
And he's come around and I'll fucking give him a cup.
I'll punch him up a bit.
And they loved it.
They loved that I respected them enough to make that bloke accountable.
And they loved it.
It just really took me in and welcomed me into their community.
And I learned so much from them, beautiful people.
And I learned so much about life.
And I just admired their simplicity.
The most important thing to them people is community, you know, is community.
And that's the most important gift.
And they don't want Ferraris.
They don't want mansions or big fucking boats.
They just want each other, you know, what a better gift.
Like, why not be like that?
Why not instead of looking down from these people, let's learn from them.
They've got so much knowledge, man.
Like, there's so much and they just not listen to it sad.
It's really fucking sad because I'm telling you,
more white, more white dance than the white man will ever be.
Yeah.
It's a, I remember reading Captain Cook's book, which is a fantastic book.
And they mentioned, you know, they went to a bunch of islands and met locals and things like that.
But when they came to Australia, they gave, they tried to do the same things that they did to other nations.
They gave them like nails, hankies, like things like that, clothes.
And the Aboriginal people were kind of like, like, okay, they didn't care about it as much as like,
they have a very, very different perspective of the world.
It's a co-mingling, not a materialistic ownership idea.
And it's, yeah, you can learn a lot from that.
But, and from Alice Springs, I ended up back in New South Wales,
I went to court for the escape and a few arm robberies.
And I got sentenced to 15 years with an old problem period of eight years.
And so I ended up getting out after eight years and, you know,
with no intentions of ever getting in the trouble again.
And I met a girl and I had a couple of kids and we established a marketing and advertising business.
And life is good, you know.
I went, went overseas, I bought a house right at the beach at Karumba.
And I always wanted to have children, but I always wanted to look around the beach.
And because I thought, you know, where I grew up, there's no beaches.
And I thought, you know, it'd be an idealic life.
But I hadn't dealt with the underlying issue from my,
and that underlying issue was kept, I was like a band-aids on a fucking cancer.
So I, and the underlying issue was the abuse itself.
And I never dealt with it.
And I was always going to come back and haunt me sooner or later.
And that's when the drinking started and the drug use started.
And then I went back on a 10-year trajectory of crime and that.
And then the Royal Commission, the institution responses to child sexual abuse come about,
which Julia Gillard, the prime minister, Julia Gillard initiated.
And it changed my life.
I told my story to the Royal Commission and I got the trauma counseling that man,
that was so easy.
It was always, that's all you had to do 20 years ago.
And most of the things would have been different a lot earlier.
So I don't like four or five years of trauma counseling,
but there's a lot of things involved in that.
Like when you're in prison, you've got two telephones in the one yard
and there's 60 people in the yard.
So everyone knows what everyone's talking about.
They'll know David's kids kicked two goals at the football or whatever or whatever.
And anyway, so I was on the phone talking to the Royal Commission about Royal Commission.
Institutional responses and about what had happened to me.
And I know a couple of young blokes were suspect thinking I was up to no good.
They thought I was talking to the police or I was up to no good.
So I had to call a yard meeting and I had to get 60 blokes together
and I had to tell them what I was talking on the phone.
I said, look, I'm not talking to the police.
I'm talking about the abuse that happened to me as a child.
And I sort of forced to talk about that.
And you know what, I'm so glad it happened because it really strengthened me.
I just went after that talk.
It was like, I can tell this to the world.
I couldn't bother me because it didn't hurt me.
And a lot of blokes come forward and told me their stories.
And that's where the voice of the survivor was born from that incident alone.
And I thought, here we go.
I'll tell my story and everyone else is going to tell theirs as well.
So, you know, it was amazing.
It was amazing what happened.
It was just so amazing.
And then, you know, before I left prison, 65 people told me their story
and I referred them onto lawyers.
And that's where the voice of the survivor was born.
I just realized I had this gift that people felt comfortable
talking about their stories of abuse to me.
And you know, today I've got 16,000 clients.
I employ 21 people.
I work with 39 different authors nationally.
And I'm doing some amazing stuff.
And, you know, I love what I do.
I get to meet new and amazing people.
Every dumb mate's in French.
We're like some of the richest businessmen in Australia.
Some of the most famous sports people.
I've even made friends with homicide squad detectives.
And, you know, it just amazes me where this journey's taken me.
Like, I'd done a psych report once.
And a psych, he said, you've got a million-a-one shot of turning your life around.
And he said, you've got a million-a-one shot.
And I went, yeah.
But we'll see about that.
And I love proving people wrong.
And that's so exciting.
And I went, yeah.
He's a mate of mine.
That's awesome.
Yeah, he was on my strip.
Well, I was on ABC's just trying stories here.
And he said, mate, I didn't think he could do it.
And he did it, you know.
Imagine if he said, oh, you'll be all right, mate.
Everything's going to be all right.
And you're like, yeah.
And then, like, maybe it's like, did that start a fire under you?
Do you think maybe a little bit?
I like it when I get underestimated.
I'll do it.
Yeah.
Well, I like to be underestimated.
Any thing I've ever done, I like, you know, when I play sport,
I like to be, I jump on the team that's got the less chance of winning
because I like the challenge of fucking winning against the superstars.
I've always been that type of guy that just went,
I'm going to go with the biggest challenges.
I'm not going to go where it's going to be easy.
I like it when it's hard.
And that he waved that flag at me,
a band of million of ones, so I don't know if he'd done it.
Like, I just maybe subliminally, I took it on that way.
But it's really good to be where I am today.
Like, it's really good to be getting invited back to prisons
and ask for my point of view.
How did I do it?
What's the blueprint you have getting invited to boys' homes
to talk to gangs and stuff like that
because my opinion and my way of doing things is valued.
I feel like a lot of people in the prison system would be able to,
they can see that you're not like just a typical,
like they'll listen to you, you know what I mean?
Kind of a lived experience.
And big change going on in New South Wales
where Labour politician, Tanya Plibysik,
her husband has done jail, he's done three years for import.
And he's a big senior adviser to corrective services these days
and he wants people like me in prison in there talking about it.
And to be quite honest, they respond to me like,
you can walk in there with 155 degrees,
they're not going to listen to you.
But I walk in with my degrees, I've done 23 years in prison,
I'm one of you, I speak your language,
I know what you're going through.
But I'll tell you what, I've got the blueprint,
how not to do it anymore.
So if you want my blueprint, I'm going to give it to you for free,
but what you've got to do is listen and take it on board.
And I'll give it to you, I'll give it away for free.
Man, I talk about my story 20 times a day, you know.
And I talk about, at the moment,
I'm talking about my mental health journey.
If I'm feeling, I do it a mood check, you know,
I'm feeling too good today, I'm going to go to the gym,
I'm going to do this and this is going to be the attitude
I'm going to do to snap out of this bad mood
or this depression or whatever.
And I try to show people that the alternative
to picking up drugs, to self-medicate
or to get around that feeling.
Do you find it easiest to switch off?
I started work a couple of weeks ago,
I started work at 3 o'clock in the morning, right?
Because I had to go to the airport, I wanted to train.
So I trained before I go to the airport,
that takes an hour.
So at 4 o'clock, dressed, going to the airport,
flying to Sydney, jumping to podcasts,
we say Gary Jubeland.
And from another one I'll go over the other side of town
and do one on my own, then come back to the motel
and then do a, you know, like a live stream into America
where I'm talking of whatever, 8000 people or whatever.
And I finish work at 12.30 at night
and my girl, she's fast asleep
and I'm in bed trying to get to sleep
and I can't on that wound up, you know.
And I wear people out, I wear people out
because no one's got my energy.
And they just don't stay with me for too long.
And you know what, I've got a dream
and often people around you don't see your dream
and they don't see your vision
and they just wonder what,
are you chasing ghosts or what is it?
But then they start to come to fruition
and they go, ah, we get it now, you know.
Yeah, yeah, I think that's like a big problem
with anyone in like a creator space, you know,
whether you're writing a book or starting a business
or creating something in the world.
I think that's always, it's usually the case
because people with a distinct vision
of about something, they,
it's hard for other people to see it,
otherwise it'd be done already.
100% and that's what, that's me.
I get these like through my PTSD.
On average, I'll go to sleep at 10 or wake up at 2.
So I'm going to sleep for four hours.
I wake up from 2 to 4
and that's when I met my creative best
and that's where I want to, that's peaceful.
My head is clear.
I'm really at peace with my breath.
Everything is just perfect.
And it's really hard when you're alive
because your girl wants to roll over and cuddle you
and you're not there.
Or whatever.
And you know, if you're living in a small place,
there's not much room to go to other than a bedroom.
And often that's been a problem.
Like, I have partners that struggle
with how my nocturnal habits
and like forget it and get,
like you know, I've got another place
where I've got an office and she'll sit alight on there
and she'll just go, I can't even sleep.
I love it.
I love the peace and tranquility of this time of the morning.
There's no white noise, there's no nothing.
I just love it. I feel good and I like doing this.
I don't want to take medication to stop me from doing this
because this is when I'm at my best.
And I don't like anything,
like I'm not in any depressions.
And man, I understand people who are
because I've been on them and when I was on them
I really fucking needed them.
And I don't take that away.
If you need medication,
take as advised and as directed or whatever.
I've found different ways through
obviously really intense exercise.
I get that in depressions
because my body releases serotonin
and dopamine when I'm pushing myself
as are in any depressions.
So I know how to get that stuff naturally.
But I don't want to be,
I want to have a clear vision.
I don't want my creativity to be polluted
in any shape or form because I love it.
It's what makes me me.
People don't get that, people.
But relationship, I'd say,
I was in a relationship
four years with a girl who was a barrister
and with her it was like,
I'd come home and I was a cross-examination.
You took 41 minutes and 18 seconds.
That trip normally takes 37 minutes
where we were for the other four minutes.
It's like, please stop that accountability stuff.
Oh, right, yeah.
That's not good for me.
Yeah, that would have been,
I've had friends who've been in relationships like that
that are very jealous relationships.
And it's not good.
Possessive and that's another form of imprisonment for me.
My triggers are today how people treat me.
Like, I'm not in prison no more.
So you've got no right to talk to me
like I'll pull people up in the shop.
If someone's a bit abrupt with me,
I'll say, excuse me, can you do me a favour?
It's sort of a bit autistic in some ways
and I'll say, I don't really like being spoke
but I cannot do that.
I can just look at you.
But that's just how I live my life these days.
I'm not somebody who's breaking my wall
so you can take your shit out of me
and punish me and treat me like shit.
I have a stance in which I like to be treated
and I will not cop for anything less than that.
Relationships, you know,
you can be in a part and she can be a little bit abrupt
that time, hang on, rewind the time table.
You don't need to talk. You want to get the best out of me.
Talk to me in love.
The best way to get the best out of me
is you talk to me in love and man,
oh, if I can jump through the hoop, so yeah.
Yeah, it's communication is such a big thing.
Just to circle back on what you said about antidepressants,
I have a bit of a story about that myself
where I had really bad OCD,
like diagnosed OCD and anxiety and depression.
And I was scared to take antidepressants.
I was really scared.
I prescribed the same one three times
and I didn't take them three times.
The third time I eventually did.
But before I took them,
I read a bunch of studies on diet and exercise
and I followed that regime to a T.
My depression almost vanished.
I felt chemically in my brain.
I remember coming back from climbing Mount Coulom
because we lived at Mount Coulom.
I remember coming back and laughing for the first time
and feeling something in my brain I hadn't felt for months.
My depression was gone.
After a few weeks, my depression was on the mend,
which was awesome from the exercise.
But my OCD got worse.
Eventually, I took antidepressants
and I had a dry mouth for two weeks.
That was it.
I didn't have any other symptoms except for the fact
that my OCD went to manageable level.
I think it's always interesting
because you normally only hear the negative side effects
of antidepressants.
And there are a lot of negative side effects.
It's not right for a lot of people,
but there are some people where it's perfect for.
That's not one of them, at least.
Yeah, and it's been perfect for me at times too.
Don't worry about that.
I've got the right one.
I've got the right one that worked for me
for a period of time.
But I just don't want to be relying on anything.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
I know a lot of people who were...
I remember saying to my doctor that exact thing.
I said,
I just don't want to be taking medication for my anxiety in my OCD.
And he said, you already are.
He said, you're medicating yourself with valium.
You're taking valium every time you have a panic attack.
You're taking it way more than you should be taking it.
Hopefully, if we get you on...
Or you're coping with other things.
I've got friends who don't want to get on antidepressants,
but they have to smoke weed every day to calm their...
And it's just like, you are medicated.
You are relying on something.
It just depends on what's healthier for you in the long run.
Anyway, I did want to quickly just shout out your podcast.
So you have a podcast called This Tick Up with Russell Mann.
So it's on Apple Podcast.
Is it on Spotify and everything else as well?
Apple on Spotify, yeah.
Yeah, awesome.
iHeartRadio, I'm told.
I've just got told yesterday.
So look, we've interviewed an array of different people
from professional boxers to leading business people, politicians,
fellow criminal bank robbers.
Who else?
I've done brain surgeon Dr. Charlie Tio last week.
Man, I've interviewed some amazing people.
And a lot of amazing people have come.
So we've got Aaron Brockovich locked in for next year.
Awesome.
Hopefully Julia.
You know, former Prime Minister Julia, you know, I'd say, yeah.
No way.
That's so cool.
Yeah.
I'll have to check out that episode for sure.
I'll check out the others as well.
But yeah, people make sure you go subscribe to the stick up.
There's also a really good one in there.
Anyone wants to know about trauma?
I've done a really good podcast with an indigenous guy called Joey Williams.
He's got a program called The Enemy Within.
OK.
And I fully recommend following Joey Williams on Instagram.
Joey Williams, T-E-W.
An amazing man.
It's funny, Joey's a funny guy.
He was a former NRL footballer and box out.
And I said, Joey, what sort of mediatronic?
Because I really love how he talks and articulates.
And he goes, what do you mean?
I said, I just love the way you talk and how paused you are.
And he goes, man, I've got a fucking concussion from rugby league.
He goes, anyway, don't stop it.
And he said, anyways, I've got to pause.
I've got to think what I'm about to say next.
Just an amazing guy.
But when you hear the podcast, people get blown away.
Wow.
That guy just articulated trauma so well.
I'll have to.
I'll have to listen to this episode after this episode is finished.
There's also, that sounds really interesting.
There's also voice of a survivor for people who would reach out to you or for the...
Anyone that's, look, anyone who's been a victim or slash survivor of institutional abuse,
physical or sexual abuse.
What an institution can be.
It can be schools, private, Catholic, public, whatever.
Churches of all denominations, foster care, fat stocks, any sporting groups after school care.
Yeah, man, just a ray of things, boys' homes, girls' homes.
Anyone that's been affected by that, man, don't hesitate to contact us.
www.voiceofthesurvivor.com
Or even message me on Instagram at Russell Underscore Man.
Russell Underscore Man is from TikTok, man.
I found my calling in life.
I found it.
And my calling in life was to help survivors of abuse and apply some passion to it.
And miracles happened.
Yeah, awesome.
And your TikTok is really good as well.
Keeps asking me to do this, but stupid verification thing.
But your TikTok, you just have so many, like, so many interesting videos like, you know, Chopper Read.
You know, you're giving thoughts in Chopper Read or you even do like the last bank robbery you did.
You walk in that area and show everyone.
What about 835,000 views on that?
Yeah, it's crazy.
It's crazy.
Also, I would just want to, for our people who may not know, this is a podcast.
The Deep Drinks podcast is a podcast where we drink the drink of the guest choice.
And we have deep conversations.
And coming up, we have Eli Yoders who has escaped an Amish cult.
And it's got murder, incest, child abuse.
And he's now running an organization or helping an organization rescue children from these Amish cults.
And then we have purity culture horror stories with the federal pastor's wife, which will be really interesting.
She's a de-converted Christian talking about the kind of purity culture stuff that happened with her at church.
So if that sounds interesting, make sure you subscribe to this channel as well.
But yeah, I just thought I would, I thought we could do some fun things to ask you a couple of quick questions.
That's cool.
I wanted to ask you about some famous criminals in Australia and your thoughts on them.
Just quickly.
Let's chop a read.
Okay, yeah, let's start with chop a read.
Did you ever meet chop a read?
But what do I know about Chopper?
I know people who do know him.
He had a great imagination.
And I love a person with great imagination.
I think it's to be celebrated because it's definitely not everyone's got a great imagination, especially corrupt police.
But he had a creative imagination.
Look, I just, yeah, he really killed it in him well.
Do you think he was a lot of what you're saying was bullshit or?
Yeah, but they probably wore it like a bad suit and people bought it and people bought his books and in particular people bought his paintings.
And look, he made a note out of it. Good luck to him.
And in the end, he wasn't doing crime because he was making enough money to support himself through fucking telling porky pies.
Good on him, good on him, man.
So is his movie, you know, the movie that was kind of based on his life chopper great film.
I love that great film.
Great action, great direction.
Yeah, what do you think about that?
Like how is that?
Man, I was sold. I loved it.
Is it is a bullshit or is it or is it accurate?
Of course it is.
Man, I'll tell you something now.
If he killed as many people as he said he killed, I'm telling you that homicide would be, he would have had bugs in his head.
Like, you know, listening devices in his head.
Like, look, and I think the cop has seen it for what it was worth.
Like, man, I'm told that gang, he's had a gang in prison called the great gate, great gate gang or something like that.
There's no doubt that they were very hectic filing prison gang.
But being a hectic pilot, being a hectic violent prison gang doesn't sort of come out here and transmit into a fucking big earning sort of mastermind crime.
You know, the big mastermind criminals out here are people, like the biggest criminals we've got in this country.
The biggest criminal cult organisation today in Australia is Hillsong Church, Daylight Second.
Oh, I know a lot of people from that church.
I used to be a youth pastor. We used to be affiliated, not directly, but a new people from the band of the church.
Yeah.
Yeah, well, look, you know, you've got, I'll tell you in this instance, right?
Brian Houston got accused of covering up that child sex thing, right?
Yeah.
That bloke give evidence at the Royal Commission.
That bloke had cancer. They waited 12 years.
They hope that bloke, he had so much political influence on his favour.
They hope that bloke was going to die.
So we couldn't give evidence to him in a criminal trial.
The bloke had some miraculous cancer treatment and lived.
So in the end, they had to charge him.
Like they went on, they dragged it.
We'll give another you and he might die off.
But when you've got a police commissioner and all these politicians that are belonging in the church
and the church is getting a $43 million grant whilst he was under investigation for that child abuse,
come on, man, that's dodgy as shit.
You know, it's not good, but you know.
I remember when I was involved in the church, which was like 2009.
It was a long time ago.
But we would talk about Brian Houston firing his dad as like a good thing.
Like he did the right thing.
Imagine that firing your dad.
But when I look at it now, I'm like, hang on, why was he just fired?
Why weren't the police involved at that early stage?
And this happens all through religion.
I've noticed is when you believe that the world is corrupt and your religious institution or your group has the moral authority,
why on earth, if you correct someone, why on earth would you go to someone you consider lesser,
to get other correction?
Like it doesn't make sense.
Like you already see yourself as like a higher up moral thing.
You look at the Catholic church is down to religion.
It's just like people today go like it's a joke, isn't it?
Like you see a Catholic person just automatically think pedophile.
Yeah.
I mean, and that's that's that's that's sad like because like religions are good thing.
Like it can keep a lot of people grounded and save a lot of lives.
And I think it's a great thing.
But when you become the devil within your actions through, you know, obviously through bad actions like that,
who's going to be attracted to that?
Yeah, one of the funniest debate topics I've seen online at the moment,
because everyone's obviously getting upset at not everyone,
but like everyone's arguing at the moment about about drag shows and bringing kids to drag shows and things like that.
And and so on had the funniest debate topic I saw it on tiktok.
And that is kids are safer at a drag show than at any church.
And I was like, that's that's like factually true.
And I was like, but it sounds so like I can see why he would he would bring him just the right type of people to debate.
It'd be so funny.
It's so funny.
I've seen that.
I've seen something about that.
I've seen an argument about it.
But you know, the fact of the matter is true.
You'd leave your kid alone with a tranny because you wouldn't.
You're not guaranteed with a Catholic priest, are you?
Yeah.
Yeah, it's funny.
It is funny how like the Catholic Church is just seen.
So it's just you don't think like, holy, holy, holy.
When you think of the Catholic Church, you think of like corruption and or at least not.
I don't anyway.
Yeah, Carl Williams.
Obviously the the the one of the stars of the hit show under the belly.
Look, as it was, like I've written in the last 12 months, I've become friends with Miguel.
So you're either Carlton crew or you or your Miguel.
I'm on the Carlton crew side.
I just think Miguel and all of his team were all class.
And I think they were the old school creams that live by by the code and the code was you don't do anything to families and children.
And I think Carl proved his nastiness.
I think he really proved his ruthlessness when he had those two guys killed in front of all those kids playing football.
And I just think that was taking things too far.
Like I just no matter how much you hate him, you just don't traumatize children or women and you leave.
You have a Mick Gatto's crew and I guarantee they live by that thing.
You never do things in front of like families.
You don't do things in front of women or children.
And I think that's the step that went too far with all that.
And I'm a man, I'm a big fan of Mick Gatto.
I think he's one of the most decent human beings I've ever met in my life.
And there wouldn't be too many people that would be better than Mick Gatto as a human being with kindness and generosity.
And what I do for my work, he's just put his hand out and he's just been so kind to me.
Karl Wins was ruthless and he lived that life, didn't he?
He lived in a violent way and he died in a violent way.
You live by the side, you die by the side and he was proof that greed didn't serve him well.
His greed was a bad master and to the end he was trying to cut deals to make his life easier.
So his kids and everything, he was willing to inform on people and that's what got him killed.
He was taking the shortcut like he was doing deals with crime commissions about telling on coppers or something like corrupt coppers and that.
So in the end, it just didn't pan out too well for him.
But I done a post about it recently, Karl Wins was a tragedy.
He was a tragedy. He was just a walking, living tragedy at the time.
Like he killed off all these people over a Vandetta and then like he was hurt that he'd been shot and embarrassed.
So he started killing off all these people and he made a lot of fucking family sad.
And in the end his own family, like his daughter grows up in Orphan basically.
That's a tragedy.
And he's only 39, dead at 39. That's pretty young.
Yeah, it's horrible.
So for our non-Australian audience, we had the largest mass shooting I think ever in Australia.
And after that we banned guns and hey.
Yeah, in the world I think that's one of that.
Yeah, we was like 34 people dead, poor Arthur Massacre or something.
And after that we banned guns and we haven't had a mass shooting since.
Not to turn this into an anti-gun arc but the person who persecuted that was Martin Bryant and he's still alive, isn't he?
Yeah, yeah.
Look, it's funny because I've done a post about him a few months ago.
So I've got a few friends that have done jail with him down at Brisbane, the Pink Palace.
And I wanted to know what he was about and they said,
he lives in like a psychiatric unit where they're just full of medication.
And they call them window lickers because they're just fucking so medicated up.
And they're so medicated up and full of psych medication.
And they've got these things, they're called a depot shot and they inject them in the ass once a month
and it just fully contains and constrains them apparently he's on the depot shot.
So I put up that post and so many people said he didn't do it.
So many people say he didn't do it.
But you know, he's obviously a demented human being.
He's obviously, he's not a criminal mastermind, he's dead set a fucking psychopath with no empathy.
What do you do with someone? What's the purpose of it?
And just fucking knock him.
So I guess you're in favour of the death penalty then?
I'm with pedophiles and I am people like that.
Anyone that hurts women or children, I'm not a fan.
I'm just, it's a disease, I just, you know, I think that sort of thing.
That's just my and people go, who are you to be shame?
You're a bank robber, you're a criminal.
I just go, oh fucking so what?
I've got rights to thoughts and things and feeling.
No, I get what you're saying.
I think the issue is, I've heard that there are people who confess and are on death row who later find out they're innocent.
So they confess for like, because they were mentally ill.
But you look in America, the states that have the capital punishment have higher rates of murder than the states that don't.
It's just, yeah, well, that would make sense, right?
Because if you're going to pull off a crime in which you could, you know, there's harsher penalties.
It's safer to kill someone and make sure, yeah.
So, I mean, this whole podcast, we could talk about the justice system.
Last one, Ivan Malat.
Ivan Malat, I spent a bit of time with Ivan.
Really?
I was at mainland prison with Ivan for about three months and a little funny story.
I had this little part, this little, like, vegetable, where you could grow vegetables.
And Ivan was in there one day with a little hand shovel digging up this sort of garden bed because of, and I said to him, you're digging up an old friend, Ivan.
And he thought that was the funniest thing he'd ever heard.
And he'd retell me, see me digging up an old friend.
And I must say this, Ivan was one of the happiest people I've ever seen in my life, I've ever met my wife.
He always had a smile on his face.
He was always positive and, you know, like, yeah, good day, beautiful day outside.
Yes, bloody beautiful.
I think he was just your stereotypical pure-breeded psychopath.
But I know I've done a bit of research on Ivan and look, and look, unfortunately,
Ivan's a product of the system.
Ivan went through the Tamworth Boys' Home, which there's a ABC documentary.
It's called Home for Killers.
And it demonstrated that all these kids like Nettie Smith and all these really, really bad serial killers that the common denominator on a lot of these real bad murderers
was the Tamworth Boys' Home and Graffton Prison where these kids were brutalized as part of their punishment.
So when you brutalize a kid, what happens is they desensitize and when they're desensitized, they lack empathy and compassion,
which creates sociopathic traits.
And I think I'm a big believer that Ivan was created.
I really am.
And I don't think Ivan can talk me out of it.
The common denominator on a lot of these murders, that the really barbaric murders was a place where kids were brutalized.
So what do we learn from that?
And at the moment, we're talking about doing it again.
Yeah, so Ivan Malam, he was the backpack murderer?
Murderers?
Yeah, okay.
Bad man, Ivan.
That's funny because I used to see him in prison and he had this big smile on his face.
But when he was dying, that's the first time I've seen him in a wheelchair, a picture of him in a wheelchair.
And the smile was gone, his hair was really grey and I thought, fuck it.
He knows he's going to meet the devil that much.
He knows he's going to a very dark place.
Yeah.
I've got a fascination about this brutalization of people.
We don't learn much from our past in Australia.
We're pretty thick.
Slow learners, fast forgetters.
We don't realize, how do you get the expectation, we'll treat them like animals and they'll come out and act like humans.
That shit doesn't work man.
It doesn't make sense.
Theoretically, it doesn't make sense.
We're going to change that shit.
It doesn't make any sense to me.
How do you say to someone, I'm going to be violent to you to teach you to say the crime, don't do crime.
I'm going to punch your face and I'm going to perpetrate a shitload of violence on you to teach you you shouldn't do crime.
I'm going to commit a crime against you to show you that you shouldn't do crime.
Yeah, it's nuts.
It's very nuts.
Redneck and Brian loves it.
Jump on his head, kick him in the nuts.
Do all these rednecks here.
These rednecks here in Australia, they're embarrassing.
That's why, yeah, we're both from Queensland and the further you go off, the more...
Up in the hills there.
Up in the hills there, man.
What are your thoughts on Ned Kelly?
I don't know much about Ned Kelly myself.
Obviously, he's an Australian icon, but do you think he should be?
Why?
Ned Kelly was actually a professional boxer and petty thief, petty thief,
like just stealing shit from just a petty thief and where he was triggered was a copper tried raping sister
and he bashed the copper and it just escalated into Ned Kelly.
Right, I didn't know that.
The copper came in and thought he could take advantage of his sister.
Ned bashed him and gave him it.
Ned was pretty handy.
He had a boxing career back in the days of the bare knuckle, the old square up bare knuckle fight.
He was a boxer, Ned Kelly.
He's registered as a boxer.
So he beat the copper up and then just escalated from there.
He said he tried killing him or something like that and it just took off and escalated.
But yes, should by at least so.
But remember this.
What people here in Australia, we've got a short memory about.
This was a, I'm not disrespecting my indigenous brothers and sisters,
but it was a country built on second chances like from the convict days.
When did we become so high and fucking mighty?
We're looking down the nose at criminals and going,
and we come from convict stock.
But we didn't get, we had all of that brainwashed out of us,
like to believe you're a criminal, you're a piece of work, you're a rubbish.
And when that shit comes on, we, you know,
I love people that are open minded and going,
and might just give them a second chance.
Progressives.
Progressives that are looking at sort of that redneck mindset.
Yeah.
Okay. Well, that's fascinating.
So I've got a lot of people.
I've got to listen to your podcast.
When you look into Ned Kelly, that sounds interesting.
I didn't know any about that.
We spoke briefly before you jumped on now.
Primarily this podcast, we talked about religion, philosophy, science,
LGBT, she's things like that.
We talked about religiosity.
And so I was going,
so you're not religious yourself, you believe in the universe?
I'm a universal type of guy.
I'll tell you what, I've got too many good things happening to me.
There's a higher power if there's something I'm going to have to mean,
because all my mates say, Russell, you're the type of guy,
you can throw your hand up a tall and pull out a gold Rolex.
They say, you've just got something fucking hovering about here that, you know, like,
and that type of, I don't know.
There's something looking after me.
I know that, like, I've had some really funny things,
like when I've used drugs, I've overdosed in houses,
where there's no one around and there's no phone,
and all of a sudden I'm in a hospital.
Someone's rescued.
Like I'm not meant, I'm meant to be here.
I've got this purpose, and I think I'm living my purpose right now.
And God, higher power universe.
Whatever it is, it's got me doing exactly what it wants me to be doing.
And so, all I'm just going, man,
I'll frame your hands up and go,
let's do it your way, man, because my way don't work.
You know, and you still shit.
Awesome.
So this is, I've got two questions around that.
Now, this isn't in order to, this is just an order,
this is just something I ask everybody,
and it's just to analyze the underlying belief system.
So the first question is about the idea that the universe,
something's looking after you.
What, if anything, would change your mind?
Can your mind be changed from that?
Mate, if Jesus came running up the street,
and said it was me.
And said it was me.
Yeah, hey, mate, that, mate,
when you were 18 that time,
it was me on the phone with the ambulance.
You know, I mean, I like, look,
I don't have to see something to believe it, you know.
But I've read the Bible two or three times,
and look, I'm not taking away man,
I've got good luck to the people who believe in that,
but that's their gig, but it's not mine.
And out of anything,
I've seen a lot of my friends turn to Islam,
and I get amazed at how peaceful they become.
And I've thought over the years,
I've never read the Quran,
but it looks like, I don't know,
it looks pretty peaceful to me,
but I don't know.
Look, I've read both,
as well as a bunch of other religious texts.
The Bible has some beautiful bits in it,
it has some horrible bits in it,
the Quran has some beautiful bits.
Hey?
What about Job,
what about that God,
given Job,
and he tested all the boils,
and I was thinking,
I'm staying away from him,
and I'm not praying to that God.
Yeah, and there's like the Bible,
take the virgin girls for yourself,
kill all the boys,
but take the virgin girls for yourself,
is the commands by Moses,
or slavery is okay.
If that was in the Quran,
I'd be going,
all the fucking,
all the other fucking rednecks,
and be going,
I don't know that.
Yeah,
there's an interesting social experiment
where someone put the cover of a Quran
over the Bible,
and then went around and asked people in the streets,
what do you think of this Quran verse?
I'm like, that's disgusting.
And they reveal,
oh, it's the Bible,
and they go,
and they get like cool.
It's in America,
and they get all funny about it,
but the Quran,
I mean, the Quran has some,
when I first read it,
it was a beautiful book,
but there are something like,
it talks about beating your wife,
talks about like,
this is what you do,
beat your wife,
and the difference with the Quran
than the other religious texts,
is the Quran is,
it says explicitly,
these are the exact words from God,
like in the Arabic,
these are the exact words,
where the Bible just says that,
it's inspired by God.
So when it comes to things like,
if your wife does this,
beat her with a rod,
when it says in,
I think it's Quran 434,
I think it is,
it could be wrong about that.
There's not a lot of wiggle room.
You know what I mean?
There's not,
because these are like the exact words.
It's not like,
so I guess that's the difference,
but I think yeah,
there's beautiful stuff in that,
there's beautiful stuff
in the Bhagavad Gita as well,
but yeah.
I know the Buddhism course in prison now,
I got so much peace out of that,
I had a heart fire out.
The meditative part of the Buddhism course
was amazing.
Yeah, it really is, isn't it?
I'm the same in that,
I'm not a Buddhist or anything,
but the mindfulness,
the meditation is incredible.
That actually goes into my second question,
what is the most plausibly true religion
that you don't believe in?
And this is something I ask everyone.
P plausibly true religion
that we don't believe in,
that I don't believe in.
I think Mary was telling a few lies
about the benefit of it.
But is that the most plausibly true
one you don't believe in?
I don't,
I just think.
P plausibly true,
let me think about that.
P plausibly true,
oh God,
I don't really have an answer to that,
to be quite honest,
I really don't.
Yeah, that's all right.
I really don't,
I really don't have an answer to that,
I couldn't give you one straight,
I don't have to think for a bit.
Yeah, no, that's fine,
that's totally fine.
Okay, well I've got two last questions
that'll be definitely much easier for you to answer.
What advice would you give to someone
who may be stuck in a life of crime
and feel like it's hopeless
and they can't get out?
What advice would you give to that person?
Well, it wouldn't be,
rip up the bottom of your car
and find out what's wrong with your engine
and dig deep,
because to make any change,
you've got to dig deep,
you've got to,
there's got to be a brutality of your honesty,
there's got to be,
you've got to be brutally honest with yourself
and I think
that's where the change takes place, right?
Is with that,
just being brutal,
I'm like,
man, I have to say some things about myself today
that I don't like, you know?
When I don't like things,
I change them, you know?
That's what I do,
I don't like how someone's going,
whether it be in business and life or whatever,
I just change, I go,
well, how's that operating?
Let's try it a different way.
You've got to be really, really honest with yourself,
if you're in prison,
you're doing 20 or 30 years,
you're not there for being a good bloke.
So what do you do?
You change your things
that fucking to get you there, you know?
You change,
and a lot of people,
these people don't know any other way.
Like there's blokes in jail now,
I was thinking about today,
you know, you've got a 400-man jail
and they said,
we're going to open the gates
and everyone can go,
there'd be 50 or 60,
it wouldn't want to go.
They're just going,
no, I don't know it out there,
I just prefer the security
and the routine of this.
I think it starts off with a certain degree of honesty,
you know what I mean?
It's like, man, well,
I'm the fuck up here,
I'm the one who's going to make change
and the change is within you.
It's not within everyone else
and don't blame everything, girls,
and don't point the finger.
It's about that honesty,
that starts with that honesty
and that's what I had to do,
I had to get really deeply honest with myself to change
and I was like,
what are the things that are changing?
I was always guilt and shame
and anger and embarrassment
until I really embraced them
and the resentment,
because the resentments,
the resentments will rust the vessel I contained
until I let go of my resentments
because the resentments
will keep me away from healing
and resentments are the opposite of love.
Resentments are a form of hate.
So while I had resentments,
I had hate
and while I had hate,
I didn't have love
and I think allowing love into your life
to heal and allowing yourself to be vulnerable,
to be vulnerable,
you've got to trust someone.
So learning to trust someone
and then from the process of being vulnerable
and allowing love into your life
and you're well on your way to changing.
Awesome.
Well, that actually might answer the last question as well,
but maybe there's a different approach
but say someone who may be watching this who's young still,
they're like 15, 16
and they're getting involved in drugs,
drugs and alcohol
and they're worried that they might have that addictive personality.
What would you advise?
You're worried about it.
If you're worried about it,
you've mostly got it, right?
Because there's something telling you
that the handbrake's loose on the car, yeah?
And that's the handbrake that's going to stop you.
So if you're worried about it,
there's a possibility,
don't take that chance,
don't roll out those because, you know,
I can remember
when I started first years in heroin,
like on the outside of prison,
I remember sitting with this couple going to get on
to go on the score
and I knew if I stayed with this couple,
things were going to get really bad,
the heroin use was going to get really bad, I stayed.
And if you're thinking about it,
if you've got that mindset
and trust your gut instinct,
this ain't going to be good, it's going to be painful
because the drug addiction and the crime cycle
is extremely,
once it gets exposed into you,
and I'm telling you, it doesn't make go really easy,
it doesn't make go,
it's extremely hard to break that cycle.
So before the cycle begins,
step back, have a good look at it,
investigate it, like do some research,
go to one of the jails,
visit someone who's doing 50 to 30 or 40 years,
ask them, was it worth it?
I think, you know, I've talked about it before,
one of the most underutilised resources
we've got at prisons themselves, man,
I think there'd be so many guys,
I've talked to some pretty high profile criminals,
I had one of the most notorious criminals in Australia ring me
a couple of days ago,
and me and him talk about it,
and he goes, man, I'd love to be involved in educating kids,
you know, kids are going to listen,
once they've heard this bloke's name,
or they know, mate, the teachers,
and they'll explain who this guy is, man,
the kids are going to be all ears.
And to that kid who's contemplating that now,
if that bloke comes along and tells his story to them,
he's going, I ain't going that way.
Why aren't we using those resources?
Because they work.
And that's, that would be a classic example
of a kid considering going down that line,
I'll make walks in a classroom,
we set a handcuffs on, dressed in grains,
a couple of teeth missing,
some dodgy tattoos, scales all over his face and head,
and he goes, man, this is how it ends,
this is the look,
this is what you end up looking like,
25 years,
haven't kissed a girl in 20 years,
or whatever, or whatever,
you know, the only memories I've got are bad ones.
Man, I think that goes a long way to determine that kid.
And well, that's actually a,
that's why I brought you on, Russell,
is because I back you, back your story,
and I back what you're doing,
and that is you've gone through rehabilitation,
and you're now putting back into society,
and I think that we need to do that,
we need to, we need to, you know,
get that, get a big mirror and try on it back at society,
and going, this is what the,
what drugs and alcohol can do,
this is what crime can do,
this is what trauma can do,
we need to have open and honest conversations
with each other, with our families, with ourselves,
is a huge one.
Being honest is a huge one.
And so I really appreciate you coming on to Deep Drinks,
and I know I'm a small podcast,
I mean, you've been on some big shows,
and so I really appreciate you coming on,
and I'm taking the time.
I'll do it more, and I'll tell you, you know,
I love it because I just love spreading this message,
because it's got to be heard, and you know,
and it makes a difference,
if one person here gets something out of it,
and we've achieved greatness.
Well, I, well, I,
I want to say thanks for coming on,
and I hope that we haven't used too much Aussie slang,
so that the American,
and the other, the audience from around the world
can understand what we're talking about,
but I hope everyone's enjoyed this episode,
and make sure you go check out the Stick Up podcast,
and give me a follow on Instagram,
Russell underscore man,
so not any questions or anything like that.
Man, I'm going to,
what's been all about here,
Russell underscore man for on Instagram,
and I've got questions,
and I'll take them all day.
Well, I'll probably be there as well,
so thanks for coming on Russell,
and thanks everyone for coming out and saying hello.
I know it's not in the regular time slot,
but I'm sure we'll,
we'll get some more questions in the comments,
so thanks everyone,
and I'll talk to you guys later.
Bye.
