...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
.....
...
...
....
...
Hey everybody, welcome for coming out. Thanks for everyone who's come out at such a strange
time for us to be running deep drinks podcast. But thank you for turning up. So before we
jump into it, I want to mention that Ukraine's power grid is kind of a bit crazy at the moment.
So if this episode ends abruptly, we apologize, but there's nothing that we can do. Thanks
Russia. But feel free to ask any questions. Just make sure you tag deep drinks podcast
or Anna in the chat and we'll make sure to try and get to them. Before we introduce,
I want to introduce Anna by saying Anastasia Pareskeva is a Ukrainian citizen volunteering
on the front lines of the Russian invasion. This is the second time Anna has come on to
deep drinks. The first time was almost two months ago. Today is the 281st day of the
invasion and Anna will be giving us an update from the perspective of a volunteer with boots
on the ground in the wise words of Anna. Truth prevails. Fuck fascism all over the world.
Fuck Russia in particular. Slava, Ukraine. With that, welcome Anastasia.
I always get paranoid. I'm going to screw up your name, but I've refused it. It's so
good. Well, thanks so much for coming on the show again. Yeah. Hi, everyone was watching
listening, I guess. I don't know. Yeah, I you did in fact butcher my name, but I completely
forgive you because you're my friend though. Yeah, we've become friends since you came
on last and I've been trying to touch base every few days or so just to keep now to keep
in touch. But it's obviously a lot of time. It's just like more sirens, more. Yeah, that
should happening. But but there's some been some big advancements in the in the invasion
and I'd love to to ask you about that. But first, before we get involved, before we get
involved in all that, I want to play a bit of a drinking game with you. Now, I'm wondering,
what will be drinking day festival? I'm prepared. So I have this cider. I apologize to everyone
because it is French, but it is very good. I got a Swedish cider because I was the closest
country cider that I could get. So yeah, that's what I got. So European wives all over. Yeah,
so yeah, let's let's do that, I guess. So it's very it's day here. And I'm supposed
to be coherent, but cider would not would not do much to me. So I'm not particularly
worried about that. So it's actually funny. Yeah, it's actually funny. Because I mentioned
this the first time. But like, when I first reached out to you, I was like, obviously,
you're in a war zone, like, shits wild. And I was like, so it felt improper to ask you
to choose a drink, like, you know, your favorite drink to drink. And I was like, look, so we
normally, normally for the first, you don't know the gimmick of the show is the guest
chooses their drink, it can be an alcoholic or non alcoholic. And we drink it together
while we have a deep conversation, deep drinks. And and I said, no, we're Ukrainian, we drink.
And she's like, I've got alcohol, I'll find some. And we made it work. So I was like,
all right, I'm Australian, I drink as well. So yeah, I told you the same this time around.
David was like, this time of the day, would you be like, okay, with drinking or it's like
too early. And I was like, well, come on, man, it's like never too early to drink in
Ukraine. What what are you on about? So especially when you're being invaded.
Yeah, that's, that's, that's unfortunately, I must say, up to the drinking quite a bit. So not
in a good way for many people. Yeah, so we already have, we joke aside, like, joke a lot
about Slavic people drinking. But we are also in fact, have a pretty severe alcoholism problem.
So it's not as fun when you think about it like that. Because yes, we do drink a lot and we
can drink, we're not getting that very drunk very fast. But that's because we're like, veterans,
veterans of drinking back and start from early age. And we're like, have resistance against
it. And yeah, so many, many people quite a lot.
How old were you when you first got drunk?
12 13.
Maybe something like that. I don't remember. Yeah, around 13, maybe. Oh, I was 14. Yeah,
nothing. It's just the the message. Don't worry about it. It's apparently our anti anti
air just hit something. So we're good. When we started to talk, and it was like a siren. And I
have a report now that our anti air like hit it. And it's all good. It's crazy to me safe for now.
It's crazy to me that that you guys just get on with your day in such a crazy environment like
that. And it really speaks to, you know, Ukraine, people of Ukraine. So obviously, I guess. Yeah,
I was just gonna say like, obviously, like what we're talking about war and, you know, really
heavy things. And a lot of there's been a lot of like really horrible, nasty rumors that pop up.
And I know that they're all bullshit. So I wanted to play a drinking game where I want you to drink.
I'm going to say a rumor. Some of them are about Ukraine. Some of them are about you. And I want
you to take a sip. And the level of sip is how bullshit they are, right? So if it's a lot, if
it's very stupid, and I'll try and copy you so that and that'll get us into the interview really
quickly, really, really, yeah.
It's a very dirty move of yours. I mean, you want to get me drunk, I see.
Yeah, well, also my criteria, my criteria for crazy rumors is pretty, you know,
I heard some stuff. Yes, let's start with, yeah, let's start with that rumor that you told me
today. What was that rumor? And then drink to show me how bullshit it is.
This one I like probably the most. We have a lot of like Russian insane propaganda shit about us
all the time. But one of my faves was that they actually showed on their TV couple times that we
apparently in Ukraine were doing research and scientifically creating a virus, which attacks
Russian DNA specifically. So to find out like ethnic Russians in Ukraine, and to, you know,
kill them. So this was not just any virus. This was the virus that was getting cooked in
bilabs in Ukraine, infamous bilabs in Ukraine, that none other than NATO sponsored. So yeah,
that's my favorite about I think that's my fave because it just has such a Bond movie villain
vibe to it, you know, like secret virus in the lab and the lab, they're going to destroy the
population. It has this like, maybe James Bond, or maybe like Hydra from Avengers or some shit,
you know, this type of vibe. So it's very bullshit.
All right. Okay.
Three, three sips of bullshit.
Three sips. That's good. That's good to have a number. We, that's also funny because Putin's
big thing is we are one people and like, so it's like, if it was going to attack Russia, it would
be attacking Ukrainians as well, according to Putin. Okay, so the next claim, I'm going to throw
one at you and tell me how many sips this is. And we want you to take a little hang on. I'll let,
if you need to take a break, let me know. Ukraine is full of Nazis.
That's five. That would be the max. That would be the max.
Five's, five's, five's good. That's a good max. Okay.
I will not, I will not even comment. I think drinking is enough for them.
Oh, yeah, you don't need to comment because it's bullshit. These are all bullshit. I wouldn't bring
up anything that's like, well, actually, this one, I saw on your Twitter,
Eastern and Southern Ukrainians are pro-Russian. What's that?
Three. Three. Okay. Yeah. So on the, on the level of biolabs and viruses, basically.
So is that, is the Southern Eastern problem? Yeah, I can comment on that a little bit.
Yeah, comment on it. Yeah. So basically, there's this very widespread,
actually, notion. So it's not even a rumor. It's something that people,
quite a lot of people believe. That's why I'm going to talk about it a little bit.
So I believe that biolabs, like most people understand that this is,
that this is insanity straight up, but, but this is like something. So basically,
there's this like notion, Russian imperialist idea that everyone who speaks Russian is
essentially a Russian. So this does not apply only to Ukraine, to be fair. It applies to
like Armenians, Georgians, Belarus people, Kazahi, whatever they're like, the ethnicity is.
It is, if they speak Russian, they basically are in the Russian sphere and Russian part of the
Russian world, Russian. So a lot of most of the Eastern Ukraine and Southern Ukraine speaks Russian
because we were heavily Russified, both in Russian Empire, the Soviet Union as well.
So the language of Ukrainian language, among other languages as well, was eradicated by law.
It was not taught in schools at all. It was prohibited on every level, like publishing
books. Like I told you last time, we spoke publishing books, publishing any like poetry,
teaching in schools, pretty much a soft prohibition, like it was in Soviet Union,
like if you speak Ukrainian, you're like a dumbass, you're an unintelligent, rural,
you will not get a decent job, you will be treated poorly. So this was the ways they
Russified pretty much East and South. And since Western parts of Ukraine, Central and like
Northern Western parts were not in Russian Empire and not in Soviet Union for such a
long time as East was, they were not Russified at all. So some parts were another Empire,
such as Polish Empire, or maybe Austro-Hungary, Romania, whatever it is, but they did not
destroy the language of the people. They basically occupied and took as part of that.
Forcefully united with their like empires. But in our case, we forced pretty severe discrimination
and subjugation by Russians. And that's why we speak Russian. So this is what pretty much
Russians mean when they then they make this assumption or straight up propaganda that we
in the East, like me, I'm from the East, Kharkiv, and I speak Russian. So we are supposedly pro-Russian,
although every stat in the world shows differently. And the all regions in Eastern Ukraine
voted for independence more than 80% of people voted for independence in 1991,
when Soviet Union like collapsed. And also, most of the people here were
a very pro-Maidan revolution, not the like, not the significant majority, but still the majority,
like 55%, 60%. And it was in 2014. For now, like 95% of people see as stats show,
and this reality shows Russia as a mortal enemy. So, yeah. So any good will they had
from people in Ukraine in the East, they lost by this invasion, obviously, because it's us
that they killed. It's our cities they destroyed. Yes, they attacked Western Ukraine as well,
a little bit with missiles, Lviv, Chernobyl, they attacked Ivano-Frankivsk, if I'm not mistaken,
it's all like Western Ukraine. But this is like this compared to the destruction they did
to the East and to the South, which is Kharkiv, Mariupol, which is Mikolayev,
Herston, all South and East. Zaparyzhia, Dnipro, it's all Eastern cities that suffered the most
damage. So, yeah, it is bullshit in all ways, but they use this for quite some time. And many
people, unfortunately, believe that lie and believe that people in Donbass wanted to be
part of Russia in 2014, which is not true. 60% of them wanted to be Ukraine, and it's just
even more by some accounts. Only 30% said they wanted to be part of Russia in 2013,
which is a lot, 30% is a lot, but not the majority by any means. So, yeah.
And that was in 2013, and that was before all the, yeah.
Yeah. Okay, well, that explains that. Ukraine and Russia.
I just drank randomly, I'm sorry. Ukraine and Russia are one people
in the wilds of Putin. Yeah, let's drink to that. I think it will be three bullshit sips.
All right, everyone's going to be judging my sips because I'm a lightweight compared to you.
Turns out, Ukraine, do you want to say anything about that, or is that just like a?
No, I think it's self-explanatory that it's not true. They use it, just like I said, to erase
our identity, not only ours again, they use it against many people as well. But Ukraine was
like a bone in their throat for some time, because we are constantly going back to resistance,
to fight for our independence, and almost all trouble that was given to Russian Empire,
ambition was given, quite frankly, by us, by Ukraine. So, we are quite large as well. So,
we are not as large as Russia, of course, but comparatively to small countries like Georgia,
Moldova, Armenia, what kind of resistance can they really do to be fair to them? But in our case,
we are pretty decent in size and in will to not succumb. So, there's that. We've never been
one people. It's reflected in our history, in our heritage, in our culture, in our poetry, in our
writings, in everything we did, and everything we believed in. So, yeah, we're completely different
people. And for them, it is important to spread this narrative. And it's also very funny that they
do, because it's like, yes, those people are just like us, like a brotherly nation, but basically
one people, let's destroy their cities and kill their populations. Yay. So, if you want a brother
like that, go on, I guess. We don't. Yeah, we don't. So, yeah.
Yeah, it's kind of, it doesn't, it's pure propaganda, doesn't make sense at all. I guess the last one
I'll read out before, there's two fun rumors about you that I know of Bullshit, but I thought I'll
ask a minute, but before I ask those ones. Ask as many as you want. There's a big theme running
through what I was reading online, because I was trying to find Russian propaganda talking
points online. And a big one was that Ukrainians want to be saved by Russia from an oppressive
government, and they've always had the desire to be liberated. That's five. That's the maximum amount.
Five. Awesome. Sorry, sorry, it deserves five. Yeah, it's silly, because like what you said before,
if the, like, Ukrainians aren't running into the arms of the Russians, the Russians are bombing
this shit out of civilian, like, buildings and people. Yeah, like, it's just crazy.
It's, most importantly, it is that it goes back to the same narrative I just talked about. So,
basically, in Donbass, they wanted, they apparently wanted to be saved by some Nazis that came to
destroy them and kill them, which never happened. It was never confirmed by any organization,
human rights organization, with any reputation whatsoever, because there was, like, international
groups that came there to see if there was really any, like, discrimination or genocide or something
they found nothing. It's just, this is not an oppressive government in any way, shape or form.
It's a democratically elected government. Maybe for Russians, that's oppressive, I don't know.
But basically, we're voted, and we chose Zelensky. I personally did not vote for him,
but pretty much everyone I know did. So, he was, like, every person who voted for him that I know
who voted. Would you vote for him now? Maybe, yeah. It depends. He's quite good in terms of
wartime leader, so I way better than I expected, to be honest. And one of the main reasons I did
not vote for him in the first like run, his first run, if he will have a second, I don't know,
then because I thought he would be too soft on Russia. So, basically, I was afraid that he will
be right in the centrist wave. His campaign was pretty much built on this whole thing,
like, we will stop the war, we will stop the conflict in 2014, that started in 2014,
and we will, like, somehow make this whole thing, you know, wholesome again, basically. And I
severely did not like that. I did not vote for Donbass to be given back to Russia, and I wanted
it to return to Ukraine. And for the sake of people who were there, mostly, who were, like,
killed, tortured, imprisoned and terrorized for being Ukrainians. So, I have quite a lot of friends
from Donbass, most of them are, my best friend is from there, quite a lot of my, like, not as best,
but still friends from there as well. And I had a host of families who escaped from Donbass,
one lived in my apartment for a year, and they escaped, like, from Donetsk, pretty much, not
Donetsk, but they lived next to Donetsk in Donbass. So, yeah, I knew quite a lot of what they did
there to people, and, yeah, so for me, it was more personal than for many other people, I think.
Yeah, so, yeah, so basically, this notion of getting liberated, there was nothing to liberate us
from, we were, like, a pretty happy country, we were, yeah, there was a lot of tough stuff,
so, like, low pay, corruption still was a problem, thanks to, of course, Russia,
yeah, so basically, there was, like, a lot of stuff, and not ourselves as well, of course,
people were not very interested in politics, they did not participate that much, and they
allowed the government to get away with quite a lot, let's put it like that. But despite that,
it was getting better with each year, so we were striving to be accepted by European Union,
and by Europeans as a whole, as a, you know, civilized non-barbarians, we really wanted that,
and we tried to achieve that in the best way we could, and, yeah, and this entire thing was
completely ruined by this, again, and again, I say again, because this is far from the first
time that Russia destroys the Ukrainians in terms of getting true independence and sovereignty
from them, each time it ends up in blood, the only thing I hope is that this time,
it will end in more of their blood than ours, and we will win, so this is the time, I guess.
Hopefully this time, it is the end, like, hopefully this time, when it ends, it ends, yeah.
Yeah, I want to be, I don't want people from, in 100 years, for example, to read,
to have the same struggles as we are, so when we read, like, struggles of people for independence,
who fought against Russia for independence, like, 200 years ago, 100 years ago, 300 years ago,
and so on, and I read the same struggles, and I understand that, holy shit, I'm, like, literally
fighting the same fight that people fought centuries ago, so it's never ending, it's always, like,
recurs again, each time we stand on our feet, they, like, knock us down, and I do hope that,
that a person who will be, like, 100 years from now on, will read it as the victory,
as the end of this cycle, and will not live through what we lived through, and what others
lived through, so yeah, so it's bullshit, and of course, liberating people by mass murdering them,
in putting them in mass graves, raping, slaughtering, and destroying their cities is not a great
liberation in my opinion. No, definitely not, so one of, one of the things that I noticed,
so you've grown quite popular on Twitter, you've got, like, what, 10,000 followers or something on
Twitter now? Yep. And, you know, you got the DGG, the Della ban, right behind you, DG Army, and that's
how I first, first saw you, I was on Destiny's Stream, I watched Destiny, like, all the time,
and, you know, like, people love you, but there are some people who hate you, and they've made
up some funny arse of rumours, and the first one that I saw pop up, which, which made me, like,
super mad at the time, because the dude was like a piece of shit, but some creature who was, like,
streaming from literally a... Between two buildings. Yeah, it was between two buildings,
it was like literally, like, out of the street with his computer, and the stream had to end,
because someone yelled out of the window, like, hey, shut the fuck up, go inside, what are you
doing, as he's screaming to Dylan Burns on the screen, amazing, amazing content. That's,
that's the only dunk you need, actually, on him, you're like, won't even have to, like,
talk on him, it's like, that person already finished the job, he was like, you crazy fuck, go away.
But, um, oh geez, he was just, and he was like a real, he was far left, wasn't he, like, he was a
far left, a far lefty, which is sad, because I consider myself quite left, and it's like, ugh,
I hate when... Those are what you people, you guys call the West tankies, apparently. To me,
it's just your, your, your, your regular communists, but many Western leftists don't like that,
so they call them, like, a specific word, and I try to, you know, abide and call them that,
to not upset some feelings, I guess, but, um, to me, it's just, you know, our communists just
are regular kind, so authoritarian dipshit that pretends to care about people's rights,
and the liberation of lower countries that actually wants a Vanguard party to squish everyone he
sees as the enemy of the people, or simply just doesn't like, so yeah, that's about it, that's
basically it, and yeah, so he called me a Nazi whore. Yeah, yeah, he said you're a, quote,
whore who is sleeping with Russians, so what's that? It was said in a, uh, in drinks.
I did not hear about sleeping with Russians a bit. Now, this is offensive, this is offensive,
I will say. Nazi whore, okay, but sleeping with Russians, nah, nah, that's offensive.
Yeah, although, yeah, if they are like, you know, normal kind of Russians, then I'm joking,
of course, like, we have Russians here as well. I don't know why sleeping, yeah, anyway, but,
but yeah, it was funny. I like, I like transatlantic, uh, Nazi whore, it's cool. Transatlantic
Nazi whore. Yeah, it's because, like, I'm like, uh, collaborating with transatlantic Nazis,
which is like United States and transatlantic, you know, like, basically, um, NATO, you know,
stuff like that. So he was called my, my father who was killed, uh, a transatlantic, basically,
a spy Nazi, so I wish I could tell my father that he was, uh, somebody called him like a
transatlantic spy. He would like that. He would laugh at that, for sure. That's when I took,
I took back, I tried to, I tried not to bully people on Twitter, but that's when I stopped.
I decided to bully him for a little bit and I got him triggered, which was really fun in the
comments and got really mad at me. So, because I was like, that's like a low bar. Like your dad
was killed and then he's like talking, um, what a piece of shit. Anyway, um, so he, he, so how many
sips would that be? Oh, that would be, um, transatlantic Nazi whore. Oh, is that what you're
going to claim that? Are you going to claim that? Is that your new title? It sure sounds pretty dope,
I must say. Oh, elite, elite. I forgot the elite beat. I always forgot the elite beat. It's like,
it's like elite transatlantic Nazi whore because transatlantic elites are like capitalists, evil
capitalists. If you got to be a whore, be an elite whore. I think so. I love that. I do remember
when we were talking, um, prior to the last time stream, we were talking just briefly and you
mentioned, um, or maybe it was afterwards, but you mentioned that, uh, Russia always talks about
having their conservative values and you're like, no, ask Ukraine wants that, uh, that
Western debauchery. Give us some Western debauchery. Degeneracy. Degeneracy. Yes, that's right.
It's the term they use. An elite transatlantic. Yeah. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm not like exactly transatlantic
Nazi whore, but I just kind of like it. So let's give it one sip. Yeah. Okay. All right.
Enough. And, and the funniest one that I, that I saw, and this one like blew my mind is that
someone said they must have been trolling, but they said that you, that you've never, you haven't
been in Ukraine since the style and you're a quote safe in Germany. Yes. I love that one.
So, yeah. So in Harkiv, at my apartment right now, so it's very, very not true. Let's give it
three seats. All right. But, but I did a video actually. I went to like, um, I posted on Twitter,
I went to, uh, freedom square in Harkiv and show the administration building in the center of it,
which was bombed on like pretty much at the very beginning of, uh, um, this whole thing.
Like, I think February 27 or 28, maybe like first, second of March, like in the, like in the very
beginning. So the entire building was blown up pretty much in the city center. And right now,
it has like boards and like, like boarded windows, but overall it's very visible that it was,
you know, destroyed. There's also like bullet holes everywhere around, like from Schroppnell.
And I like basically like pointed my finger in that Schroppnell. And I like filmed myself on it,
like, uh, behind me was this building that is, uh, was all over like news, YouTube and everything,
you know, like this particular like explosion. And I was like, Hey, deep shits. Here it's me. I'm
in Harkiv. Come on. Like, so. That's where I filmed the moon landing. Yeah. But basically,
they still can say it's like a green screen or some shit. There's like, like no, no, no conversing
with these people. I have not left Ukraine since the February 24 and have no intention to until we
pretty much win basically. So yeah, not true. I was in Potava, Ylviv and like Kyiv for some time.
And I was going back and forth from Kyiv to Harkiv, but never left Ukraine. So yeah. And
Harkiv. Yeah. So you, uh, last time we spoke, you were in. Yep.
Uh-huh. Siren again. Another Siren again. Yeah. I just, I heard it. So I, you know, like decided
to listen. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. If you need to move or anything, you mentioned before we started that
you're not going to move even with the sirens this time. But if you move, please move. If you,
if you live in Harkiv, you kind of have to, you know, kind of have to not care that much because
it's very often in, if you will be like hiding in your basement every time it sounds, you will not
do like anything. So at this point, I'm going to continue, you know, talking. Let's hope I do not
blow up on your stream. That would, that would be unpleasant. Yeah. That would not be good.
Uh, Tyler said, uh, obviously filmed in J. Biden's basement. So talking about your, um,
yes, of course. Have you got Joe Biden's number? You can just give him a call and be like,
yo, I need some more green screen. Um, uh, and, uh, those, it would be like for really,
I think it was his son, like, right? Hunter, Hunter, Hunter Biden. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's
about him, like this rumor that he had some Ukrainian hookers or something. I'm not sure.
That'll be the next one. Like, yeah, Hunter Biden hooker. Yeah. Yeah. That's definitely an
elite transatlantic elite transatlantic Nazi or hooker to, uh, um, oh gosh, Biden son was Hunter
Biden. Yeah. This would definitely boost my elite status because you know, it's the president's son,
so it's pretty elite in my opinion. This about as elite as it gets. Yeah. The last time we spoke,
you were in Kiev and now you're in Harkiv. So what, what's gone on there? Why did you go back
to Harkiv? Well, pretty much I wanted to return home for some time already. And it just didn't
make the decision because mostly because of my mother, she was staying in Kiev for a while.
And I wanted to stay with her after what happened to my father and to her. She was like in the house
that exploded as well. So I wanted to, to give her like a little bit of a break, to take her
to another place because Harkiv was, she couldn't stay here. Like it was, it reminded her of,
you know, what happened. And there was like pretty severe explosions and artillery back in that time
because counter-offensives began after, I think a month or something, like a month and something,
maybe two months, like after my father was killed. So it was like artillery bombings,
like pretty much every day and seven, up to seven strikes per day, usually in Harkiv. So in that,
kind of like, you know, environment, it's pretty hard to, to heal, I guess, somewhat. And yeah,
so we decided to move away. We took her to Poltava for some time, but then we had like troubles
with the apartment there. And we decided to go to Kiev. My sister stayed in Poltava and we,
me and my mom, we went to live in Kiev for a while. And yeah, but then the attacks on Kiev
intensified as well. So we have like two attacks that killed a lot of people in like in the city
center. And yeah, and after that, after 10th of October and 15th of November, we realized that
there is not like a significant difference right now between Harkiv and Kiev in terms of danger.
But the only thing that Harkiv is gets more sirens, like I said, because it's way closer and
everything like something like flies there and Russia and everything is like, oh, boom,
sirens, because this reacts to, you know, like proximity of basically the enemy. And but since
artillery no longer gets to us, we are much safer than we used to be, thanks to our Ukrainian armed
forces who are also by enemy by every like word heroes, of course. So yeah, so we decided to come
back and mom wanted to start working again. She's a dentist. And yeah, so basically, there was the
decision to return and also the blackouts in Harkiv are less severe than in Kiev, which is also
pretty important to me. And yeah, because my work partially depends on, you know, on internet and
stuff like that. So it makes makes sense to me as also like by staff, I correspond with volunteers
and it's very hard to do without like cell phone connection without internet and having like 12,
16 hour blackouts per day, which is in Kiev, is most of the day without cell phone internet
and in the dark. So not good, not good. So yeah, that's why I'm like back home, I think, mostly
because of that. Yeah, with with with your with your Twitter, there's so many photos of you just
like in the dark with a candle and like no electricity again and red electricity back when
you're in Kiev, I think it was. It's good to see it's good to see that you're in Harkiv. And it's
also good to see that in my well, there's a few things. Sorry, I'm getting ahead of myself.
Before when you mentioned that there are people dying in Kiev, they're not correct me wrong. Some
of them are civilians, aren't they? They're just not some pretty much all of them were civilians.
Okay, so all of them are civilians. I just want to make this very clear because there are probably
some people still watching this who may not be up to date with this invasion is an invasion.
It's not a war. It's not. Well, it is a war, but it's an invasion.
Russians are coming in and bombing civilian buildings and civilians. There is no,
this isn't like, oh, we accidentally like this is all out war from the Russians.
Since we last spoke, this is according to the I think the United Nations numbers or
it might have been Ukraine's government numbers, but more than 8300 civilians have been killed
in Ukraine, including 437 children. This is up from 6114 civilians and 390 children when we
spoke on October 13th. So I'm sorry, this is very low estimation as well. So this is like, so
international organizations pretty much say that confirm that. So the ones they like 100%
sure. So this does not even cover Mariupol, honestly. Yeah, so I was just I was just gonna
because I thought that I wrote down the high number, but I wrote down I wrote down a lower
number and it had a little asterisk that said because it's something like 40,000 Ukrainian
that is estimated by the Ukrainian government. But the reason they chose this is because this is
like bona fide death certificate like that like where you know that these numbers will still come
out and they just haven't come out yet with them, you know, nations. And so these are civilians.
These are not people fighting, you know, in the army or anything. These are just civilians who are
killed. And you know, your father being one of those people, which is absolutely horrible.
And but and the members of the European Parliament voted to adopt a resolution calling
Russia a state sponsor of terrorism and a state which uses means of terrorism. So that's been
passed. The President and European Commissioner Ursula von D. Lehman, I hope I got that right,
proposed the establishment of a special court to investigate and prosecute Russia's crimes of
aggression. Western countries have agreed to establish a group to help repair Ukraine's
badly damaged electricity grid. And the US has pledged to spend $53 million on that effort.
But on the good side of things, Ukraine has reclaimed against Russia's mighty army. Ukraine
has reclaimed 54% of the land Russia has captured since the beginning of the war. So great news.
And that's like, it's it's it's awesome to just see Ukraine fighting back like they are and just
for being so courageous in the face of you guys aren't lying over, you guys aren't rolling over
to this, which is great to see. We do try. That's for sure. Yeah. I actually today is kind of an
important day, honestly, for Ukraine, because exactly 31 years ago, we voted for our independence
overwhelmingly. So in December 1, 1991, was the voting for Ukraine's independence from
Soviet Union and Russia, basically. And 90% of people voted that they want to be independent
and free. So this was the largest voting in the history, basically, of Ukraine, because
32 million people participated. This is an insane amount of voters, you know, never again in the
history, I think, like, ever, people will that much. So people who go vote is like, maybe 40%
if we're lucky, like, of the population goals, maybe 50, maybe, but mostly around 40. And I think
that's the number like all over the world. Like most people like don't go, unfortunately, vote,
like most of the population. This was a humongous amount of people who went to vote for our
independence. So yeah, so what was the percentage you say 90 90% 90 and 32% 90 like dot 32%. So
90%. Yeah, that's a lot. Yeah, that's a lot. I wonder how many people wanted to vote and just
couldn't because of wherever they lived or or access to pretty much all people who did in fact
vote like our parents generation, they all say that people like went out of their way to vote,
because it was that's incredible, because people were like, holy fuck, we're actually voting for
something democracy. Yeah, democracy moment after like years of totalitarian, you know,
dictatorship and being part of like Soviet Union that quite a lot of people never wanted to be
part of. And even at the beginning, pretty much nobody did it to be honest, but nobody but quite
quite a small amount of people wanted. But the years of being in part of it, of course, some
people were brainwashed to believe it was a great country, better, best place on earth,
which it definitely wasn't. But even so, they wanted to be independent in 1991, which is pretty
crazy considering how much propaganda there was throughout the decades. Most people were like
born already after World War Two, like 50s, 60s, like my parents like, and in 70s as well,
they were like drenched in this like propaganda and World War Two hype about victory against Nazis,
you know, all of that. So despite that, they still wanted to be independent overwhelmingly,
which is pretty, pretty great. And I would like to point out that all regions of Ukraine won't
voted overwhelmingly for independence. So in the West numbers were like 90s, 95, 96 end up.
But in the East, they were like 80 up. So still more than 80% wanted in the East as well to
be independent. The only region that won't voted significantly less was Crimea, but still 56,
I think, percent. So the majority, but not the larger majority. But that's because the, sorry,
because, because ethnicity, ethnically, there are like 60% Russians there. So that's why they
don't, did not want to, you know, be separate from Russia and Soviet Union because they're Russians,
you know. Yeah, but still even, even them apparently sort of wanted because 56% still
did vote, right? So I do think it was majority Ukrainians and Tatare, but still, I guess some
Russians did as well. Yeah, that makes sense. We talked about it last time because they like
genocide the Tatare people and then they like moved in basically Russians in their houses
and their homes like build their own shit there. And that's how they got Crimea to be their,
their influence sphere and their region of Ukraine that is basically their power was consolidated.
So, so from how is like, so since we last spoke, it's only been about, it's been about two months
since we last spoke, how things changed like on the ground, like how people's morals shifted with
the taking back of land, are people getting tired or people just keep fighting or like what's,
has anything changed or has anything changed with your volunteer work?
Well, pretty much after her son was sorry, uncomfortable. So after, after her son was
occupied, people's mood is pretty lifted. It was already high in terms of morale. But this is like
a huge win for us, of course, because this is pretty much the main, the main and only city they
took that was that they held. So not like a little village or something like whatever the place,
not like the villages don't matter, but you know, like a big city and we took it. So the other one
they have is Mariupol, but this is like a rubble of dust. This is they like entirely destroyed
the city to take it. And, but her son was not like that. So that was damage, but not as significant.
So for them, it's a huge loss. And for us, it's a huge win, both in terms like our military wins
and morale, of course, as well. So people are pretty chuffed about that. People went on the streets
to celebrate in Kiev and in all cities. And some people like dance dancing, like all the time,
despite the fact that they did not have like any electricity, any water at all, any heat,
nothing. And they were like, I have like this video, I saw this video of the guy who I really
love. He's like a philosophy student from Kerson. And he was like, given an interview to a journalist,
basically, in English. And he was like, we have no heat, no electricity, no water, no is no like
an internet connection, no cell phone connection. But the most important thing that we have,
no Russians. He was like, so happy about it. He has very strong accent as well. It was so funny
to see. And he was so happy with his like little flag and ribbons, and finally being able to wear
it without being shot in the head for wearing those ribbons and flags. And yeah, it was just,
yeah, it was very cool. And I think that's the sentiment like most people feel. So we can survive
all sorts of shit, as long as there are like no Russians, basically. And yeah, it is pretty hard,
not gonna lie, those like severe blackouts is makes your life pretty difficult for sure,
and pieces of people as well. Because it's very hard to work, especially considering the fact
that many people work from home, like with the internet, and they're like laptops and stuff,
it's pretty, pretty, pretty bad. And some people can't cook at all. So if they have like electric
stove or something, it doesn't work. So yeah, it's hard. But I like this gentleman from his own set.
It's the most important thing is no Russians. The rest, yeah, the rest is, you know, we can work out.
And in terms of my volunteer work, pretty much, it's just the same. But the things I get changed.
So I get mostly like, thermal wear right now, for people warm boots to, you know, to not wet their
feet, get their feet wet. Generators, flashlights, because there's like no light, and they need like
some kind of like light. Also, not flashlights, flashlights. Oh, I don't know if it was your
accent, but it sounded like flashlights, but I don't flash. Yes, you're not getting you're not
getting flashlights for people. They also I needed actually. But maybe I'm not sure I did not get
this request. Maybe I need it. But I think like, maybe not the best thing in like dirt and trenches
they believe in our soldiers. Who knows? Yeah, have not received any like requests for sex toys.
But other than that, other than that, yeah, so I will remember that one. I think somebody made fun
of me already. And I didn't understand why because I was talking about flashlights. Maybe someone said
flashlights because David, here's what he wants to hear. Maybe that was me. Maybe I'm the one that
should be embarrassed because maybe you said clearly flashlights and I had flashlights. So
someone delete that. That's not your fault because for me, I can barely hear any difference
between like, yeah, so it's very hard for me to, you know, I'm not an English speaker.
So it's really hard for me to see the difference. It sounds very similar to me.
Yeah, it's probably, it's probably, it's probably, you're probably right. It's probably more
to do with my perverted brain that's that just picked up that like word.
Let me know if your brain is also as perverted and heard that. But back to your volunteer work,
what's so, so you're now getting like things like thermal stuff and that brings me into
a question I had and I saw it on a news article and that is like, it seems like,
correct me if I'm wrong, but it seems like Putin's next like attack is on the electricity grid
because he knows that winter is going to make the Ukrainian people weak because they won't have
access to heating and electricity through winter. Do you think that's true? Do you think that his
Putin is or the Russian army is deliberately attacking the electricity grid because of that
reason? Or do you think it's just? Yeah, yeah. It's like a terror tactic, basically, is what it is.
So it's pretty hard to live without electricity in 21st century on a good day, but in winter times,
it's, the cold is like the biggest problem, of course. And also, many people have like houses
with like holes in them and like bullets and no glass and windows and it's pretty shitty already.
But without the heat, of course, it is pretty, pretty bad. And it's also kind of affects your mood,
I guess. So if you're like in the dark all the time, you just get like sort of depressed, I gotta say.
So we fight that as best as we can, but and they will not like make us, you know, go to the streets
and demand peaceful negotiations with Russia. Just just for the Russians. But you know,
basically, other than that, it is does make us our lives bad. So that's not not gonna like pretend
it doesn't. But fuck you anyway, of course, and we will still do everything we can. Just our lives
are harder, of course. And they fully intended to make a full blackout. So like for maybe weeks,
and that would be not good. But to survive one day or two days is just not that bad. But the
weeks, the weeks is pretty bad. And I just don't I just don't understand how like this is because
this is attacking the electricity grid. How could this not be like directed only at the civilians?
Do you know what I mean? Like like how is so I just wonder like at what stage does the rest of the
world acknowledge that what Russia is doing are war crimes that need to be dealt with like right
now? Like I know like, do you think do you think NATO will ever get involved? No, no. They do acknowledge
it as a war crimes, of course. So there's like investigations, they're just very slow. So like
I said, like people killed are like about 40,000 up to 50,000 by our estimation, and it is a
correct estimation, just that it's it's hard to confirm, for example, Mariupol, because they're
no jurors are allowed there, you know, basically. So how the fuck do you count? And the worst thing
about it is the Russians will hide all the like, shit they did, they like burn people's bodies up
in crematoriums in some victims will never be discovered quite a lot of them. So yeah, but
each city we liberate, we pretty much discover masquerades, torture chambers and, you know,
the biggest mass grave since World War Two, I think was in Izum, discovered in Izum. And yeah,
and so yeah, those are obvious to all like reasonable people. But despite the fact that they
like, like you said, said the Russia is a sponsor of terrorism and use means of terrorism, which is
different than saying that Russia is a terrorist state, by the way, as I was, as people pointed
out to me on Twitter, it's not the same. But yeah, I think to pretty much everyone, it's clear,
who is not insane and for a Russian supporter. And, but it doesn't mean that they will get
physically involved. And we don't expect that, to be honest. I, I, when you said Izum before,
I wrote down this, like for last stream, I'm pretty sure I read it out. But just so
for people who didn't catch last stream, Izum was several mass graves, including one site
containing at least 440 bodies were found in the woods near Ukrainian city of Izum,
after it was liberated by the Ukrainian forces. The 414 bodies included 215 civilian men, 194
civilian women, five children and 22 servicemen. Most of the dead showed signs of violent death
and 30 presented traces of torture and execution, including ropes around the neck,
bound hands, broken limbs, and genital amputation. Children, women, men, civilians,
like this is, this is big. And that's only one, one place, one place, the city of Izum,
when it was liberated. That's crazy. Yeah. Same shit in here song, by the way. So,
yeah, but we are getting reports. And I will only say those who were that were confirmed by our,
like police and detectives and investigators, but 25 torture chambers were found. And
people who were tortured there were even this time, even we have like testimonies about
teenagers and children as well. So, this we do not have before, like straight up like testimonies
of teenagers that were in torture chambers. So, yeah, yeah. And sexual violence is incredibly
prevalent. And it, it, it was already like pretty known in Bucha and in Hastomell,
which I was like this first place where this was that was liberated in north of Kiev. And
yeah, so the things that were discovered there were particularly terrifying and awful because
they had no time to like hide their tracks. So the bodies of people with just their hands with
ropes like that on their hands on the behind their backs or something, they were found like
just lying on the streets, basically. So that's why it was so like, I guess, I opening for like
many people, especially in the West, because it was just so it was cart to even, you know,
it's not just a picture of torture chambers, like literally people like lying on the ground.
Are they the, are they the photos that you sent me of a messenger and asked if they would be okay
on Twitter? Are they those ones you're talking about? Did you get banned, you got banned for
like a 24 hour ban or something, didn't you? Was that for that or was that for something else?
No, that was, that was because I was mean to Hassan Piker.
That's so good.
Yeah, that had nothing to do with it. You would expect it to be like full range
of like dead, dead and tortured people. But no, that's fine.
It was because you were mean to Hassan Piker.
Most privileged people in the world.
Yeah, I called him like a nepotist fuck boy who doesn't know like what the fuck he's talking
about that he's like a multimillionaire who lives in like a huge house with pools and bitches there
and a blackjack and horse and, you know, and basically spooks shade about my country and
promotes communism, uses Soviet like aesthetic like flex and, you know, like dances on the graves
of millions of Ukrainians basically is what he's doing.
Yeah, it's an aesthetic. It seems like an aesthetic for him, but he wouldn't be pro-Russia would he?
Or is he?
No, no, it's kind of like a card question to answer like on its face. No, see, he did say like
invasion bad. I don't like support invasion, but that's very like surface, you know, like level.
Yeah, like have fancy.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So basically, I believe that I believe that he doesn't like support invasion
and he thinks it's bad. Obviously, I don't think he's lying. But, but then he will after that,
he will use the straight up Russian propaganda to kind of like play apologist for Russia.
So he invasion bad, but they had reasons to do that because NATO because America bad because
Ukrainians like America. Maidan was a coup sponsored by like Western, whatever, Ukrainian Nazis.
So, you know, you're like regular talking points that Russia themselves uses to
to justify their invasion and their imperialist expansion and their genocide. So basically,
you say like, yeah, invasion bad, but kind of had, they kind of had a point.
So he even was like on camera saying that Crimea is annexation was totally justified.
And yeah, so, yeah, of course, he wouldn't like say straight up something go Russia like Putin.
Yeah. But, but at the same time, basically playing apology for it is not as bad, but quite bad in
my opinion. Yeah, especially do millions of millions of his audience. Yeah. Yeah.
I don't I don't watch love or I don't watch any of science stuff. But it's like it seems like
his whole vibe is like it's an aesthetic like it's like his brand almost to be a commie or something.
Yeah, he identifies as such. So yeah, what about some I know you recently had conversations
with Vosch. I know destiny and did you get much flak for from the Dullaban from
surprising they didn't. Oh, okay. Interesting. So everyone was like saying, oh, they're going
to like hate you for doing that. And like, destiny like, and Vosch like hate each other and their
communities like hate each other. And I was like, well, I do hope they will not like behave like
children and they will understand that I'm like my only team, to be honest, is Ukraine. So yeah,
so that's why and I'm interested in talking with Vosch because he covered Ukraine quite a bit. And
he was good at it too. There were some like major issues I took with his comments, which I hope to
talk about him with him next time. And he agreed to talk about it. I'm not sure when but when he
will be free to do that we will, I believe he will be receptive to like, I guess, criticism and my
concerns. At least that's what the impression I got from him. If not, at least I will express them to
his audience, I guess. So it's not like a debate or anything. But I just want to, you know, express
how much how offensive I found some of his comments. But to be completely fair with him, it was like
95% of his coverage was great. So like maybe like 5% was I took great issue with and I want to talk
about that for sure. But overall he was pretty good. And I also have like a bit of like admiration
for him because he's one of the leftists who were not pro-Russia and were not spewing Russian
propaganda really left being able not like social democrats or like liberals or something
straight up socialists who identify as socialists. So I think he did a pretty good job at that. He
also went against his own quite a lot for that. So I appreciate that. I think that's that speaks
of a higher character in my opinion. So I hope him and destiny can work out their beef and they can
like have some spiritual debates again in the future because I'm not sure if you've ever seen
the debate with destiny and Vosh and the two like right wing nationalist white nationalist dudes,
Eric Stryker and some other douchebag. Anyway, it was funny. Like you almost you see Vosh laughing
the entire time at just how stupid their arguments are and it's amazing. Like I watched it and me
like I put it on every now and again. Like I put on an episode of Seinfeld. It's like the funniest
thing to me. I need to watch that again.
Very good. Yeah, well, you know, some people like treat them like literal like children, but
I mean Vosh and destiny, but I think they are grown dudes. They can figure this stuff out if they
want. Yeah, if they not, if they not, it's not up to me. So that bridge is apparently burned,
I think. And as you as people in the on the internet say, and yeah, I don't think it's my
business, honestly. So people would like brought up this to me all the time. So this they did this,
they took this, they shared the child on each other this Vosh like there and destiny did this.
And guys, I don't give a shit. Like I literally don't care about years of drama. And I don't want
to I will deal with them like like separate individuals in the way they treat me and in the
way what they specifically say to me, like the rest I just have no like desire to,
to, you know, to dwell on like years long like drama that I have no business.
Yeah, it's not your business, but it's my business. Okay, I'm saying public service
announcement to Vosh and destiny. Get your fucking shit together and start arguing about cool
shit again online because it was fun to watch. All right, put aside your little temper tantrums and
just, you know, start entertaining the masses again. Please, please. It's very much like a
fucking divorce. It seems like it's like your kids, your kids, mom and dad stop fighting.
So they're literally like, there's like children who picked a side basically and grow to despise
the other parents, which happens. Yeah. And there are always those I just want mommy and daddy to
make up. I've been over destiny's house for a long time and I'm going, destiny, please,
daddy home, please bring Vosh home. Like that's what I'm doing. I want to see,
you know, because like, I don't, I don't want to go over to moms or dads or whatever. I don't
want to go to the other parents house just yet, but I want them to be together. It's like, come on,
guys, you can do it. So destiny's the mom. Yeah. And we need Dylan Burns. Destiny's,
they're both a bit of both. And destiny's, we need Dylan Burns to moderate their first little
connection. And then we've got, I think you can do that. But, you know, I don't think they want to.
That's the important bit, I guess. If it happens, you held here first. If they ever come together,
it was because of us. But oh, some people should wrote me like Vosh fans and mostly destiny fans
as well. They were like, Oh, you need to like build the big bridge between them. And I was like,
guys, I'm like, it's not like my business to grown ass dudes. Like, why the fuck should I like do
that? And also, it's kind of funny that people ask a Ukrainian to build a bridge. That was an awful
it was an awful creamy and bridge joke. Yeah. Yeah. So we're going to burn embrasures apparently,
not not building them. So yeah, so it's kind of funny. But to everyone's credit, there were some
people like in the my Twitter shit and like on destiny or on Vosh from different communities. And
I told them like, cut that crap up, go out if you don't want to behave like get the fuck out of my
Twitter. Because you know, just I don't want to like I consider destiny like a friend, basically.
And I am super grateful to him. I do care for him. And I don't want to hear like shit on him,
like without any evidence going him like a rapist or some shit, like go, go, go, go.
That whole arc is so cool. Yeah, girl is like actually insane.
Apparently. And also, same thing about wash. I like, I'm not like as friendly with him because
we talk like no basically one time. And it was like, and like crazy. And it was really hard to
call it a conversation in the best sense. But still, if someone like come up and calls him like
Peter or something, go the fuck away. So basically, it's like, like, do it if you've got evidence,
but don't if you don't have evidence, like, yeah, if you want to criticize like his ideas,
that's fine. I have like critiques of my own as well. But if you just want to like call him names
and shit on him, then, you know, get the fuck out. I don't care about that. Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, that's kind of like I do. But most people behave completely fine. And I wrote a message
you like that. And to be honest, like most of the wash pants were like, oh, destiny fans like
will shade on you for talking for what to wash and did not really happen. So they were like,
okay, with it, basically. And some people were making just like, oh, the betrayal, like, you
know, like, it was all like, just the like joking about like that. And yeah, so some people are
like asking me to ask what some Mimi questions about horses, which I didn't ask. So, you know, like,
you know, stuff like that. So I don't think it was that bad. I also asked people to behave,
maybe this. Yeah. Well, like, people love you, like I was saying, someone said,
Thorben, Thorgen, sorry, I've come to London. Sorry, I can't pronounce it said said,
why do it doesn't indicate referring to Russia as less. It's Thorbjorn. Thorbjorn.
Thorbjorn. Thorbjorn. Oh, fuck. I'm making work for my Scandinavian.
Sorry. We don't have like, we don't have many names like that in Australia, in Australia land,
in Kangaroo land. Why does it keep referring to Russia as left Putin has much more in common with
far right extremism, almost everything he, everything he Crimea says about Ukraine is or
feels like projection. Yeah, Russia's right. I never called them left. I don't know what you mean.
You might be confusing something. I talk about like Western leftist that support Russia. So like
but Russia itself is not left by any means. It's pretty fast. So yeah, yeah, I agree with you 100%.
Yeah. And when we speak the first time, you mentioned how like, it's the like, we all expect
the far right to be pro-Russia because no, they're morons. But why are we mentioning the far left
as well is because we're both we're both really surprised by that that they were far left people
who are supporting Russia that would to me, like blew my mind. So that's what that's kind of why
I guess we're referencing that. But yeah, it's like zero surprise to me that far right people
support Russia. Yeah, it's like, yeah, yeah, yeah, obviously, right. The Pope Catholic like,
yeah, yeah, yeah. So but so yeah, so you are completely correct. They're like no left in
any way shape or form. And I never, never stated that. I think never. They do larp on some like
communism, aesthetic, Soviet Union nostalgia, but this is just straight up like aesthetic to them
as well. It's no longer like Russia is not communist in any way shape or form right now.
And neither China, by the way, but that's another story. But yeah, but they have some like maybe
elements they talk about like past nostalgia using this like nostalgia fuel. But yeah, but calling
them left is incorrect. What I am pointing out, though, is that far left people turned out to be
just as shitty as far right people, which I talk about a lot. That's true. But it's not about Russia.
Yeah. So I do want to mention, I do want to mention that DGG has helped you a lot and I want to give
a shout out to your Twitter but also DGG for what they have done. So they raised they and I hope
some of my community gave you some money as well, raised but mainly 99.99% DGG. I don't want to
myself in there. I had some who signed themselves as David fans. So
Oh, really? Yes. Oh, wow. That's that's so nice to hear. I think maybe three or four people for
sure. Hey, well, no one bought the merch that I made. So it's not because I'm not holding the money
like no one can. I bought a sticker. I need to buy your merch. It's not very good merch.
But I just wanted to find ways to support you. So everyone go and check out Anna's Twitter.
It's it's keep you up to date with like what's going on with the war. She tweets a lot of cool
stuff and you can get in. Oh, can you return it up up up? I like up. Oh, yeah, that's I bought a
destiny sploosh as a present for myself. So yeah. And that's the thing I wanted to mention
as well is you said guys, I made an extremely important purchase. It's an essential item,
which is obviously anyone I believe. And it's a destiny plushie. So yeah, awesome. Yeah.
He was like holding it with his like robotic expression as usual.
But him, he's so cute, like he's so soft and squishy. And he was like holding it with near
his face. And he was like, like looking straight in everyone's eyes. And he was like, beautiful.
And I was like, oh, I got to have it. I got to have it. Yeah, yeah. So that's very good.
An early Christmas present. So make sure you go over to Anna's Twitter. Follow follow there.
And if you want to donate to Anna, her information of courses in the link in this video,
all the proceeds go 100% to help you in your volunteering efforts unless you specify otherwise
because you recently bought a, you didn't want to use any of the volunteer efforts to buy yourself
a generator, but you bet destiny's community DG jumped out again and gave you some money so
you could buy a generator so that you could live, which is yes, it's actually not exactly a generator
because it's really hard to put a generator in the apartment. It's loud. Like very, you know,
it's on there. It's hard to use. And it's also like smells and it's not for the small apartment
that I have here. So basically, basically, I bought a eco flow power station, which is like
essentially a huge battery that you can like charge stuff from. And it is pretty expensive.
And I wanted decided to, you know, to ask for help about that because I wanted to make clear
that this is for me and not for, you know, the army. And people donated way, way, way more
than I asked for, you know, the power station. And I was like, stop, I already got the money for
the power station. And they were like, we will not stop. DGG was like, this is like a protest
donation. And they would like legit sign them. Like a woman will not tell me what to do. Like
it was only hilarious, honestly. So yeah, so misogyny arc. So basically, yeah, so basically,
that was very fun and very nice of them. And I already bought this like power station, but I
will the rest of the money they sent, I will use for the army, despite them sending it to me,
I already made some purchases. We are about to buy a car. And this car is needed to,
I will post very soon, maybe like in a couple of days, I will post videos from near the front lines
where artillery guys are. And this is like they're like swimming in dirt, like swimming in dirt.
It's very, very hard conditions. And it's very hard for volunteers to get to them. So the cars
dial on like on the way there because of the incredibly bad roads. And it is very hard to
deliver stuff to them now, because they are further away from us. They're not close to
Harkiv anymore, they're like further away. So we decided Igor and Andriy and me,
who are all volunteers, like in one in one band of volunteers. So we decided that we really do
need this car because like a Jeep or something like that to, to get the stuff they need to them.
Because Andriy's car is dead. It's really dead. It's no longer, it's about to die like any day
now basically. So yeah, I will post so all of you can see those fucking roads and all the questions
will disappear. Actually, fun fact, which probably will be like interesting video, you need to like
ditch your car very close to the battalion where the battalion is. And then you literally go
right on Heimers to go there. On what? Heimers. Heimers, Heimers, how you call them. Those American
like, you know, weapons, heavy weapons, artillery, it's stuff like that. Have you seen them? Oh,
really? Yes. Oh, we got them. This is like Google them. How do I spell it? Heimers, H I M A R S.
Those are the ones we received that really helped us with the counteroffenses and that like
really boosted our capabilities. I'm trying to look it up. Yeah. Hang on a second. Sorry.
So you have to like you drive on them. Yes. It's actually kind of hilarious and epic. You just
remove like the like the shooting bits like, you know, like the rockets themselves. But
yeah, and you use this thing to cross that dirt. That dirt is that strong, actually.
Geez. Wow. Yeah. Well, even those things drown, even they drown. So it's very, yeah,
because we have very specific type of soil in Ukraine. I don't know if you know this.
It's called chernozium, which is could be translated as black earth. So it's incredibly
oily. It's very greasy. So it's like, yeah, so you can like pick it up with your hand,
basically, like straight up like that. And it's very, yeah, it's very, it's like a small
essentially. And in the November time, it's very hard to even like, in the city, it even is all
fucking greasy sometimes. But in the like roads that are destroyed, that there is no like
concrete, no like nothing. And it's all like forests and fields. And it's just, oh, it's so
bad. You like you step in, you just drown knee, knee is up to your knee, you're in the dirt.
So it's very hard. And this soil is very specific to Ukraine. This was one of the reasons like
in feudal times, why so many people wanted to take over our country, because it's exceptionally
fertile. It's one of the most fertile soils in the world, which in the time when the land was
the main like currency, it was quite quite a profitable land. Yeah. So if I'm not mistaken,
it might be even the most fertile soil in the world, but definitely one of the most
fertile ones. But the downside is that it is greasy as fuck.
I've never heard of greasy soil. Yeah, it is. Strain it and get out some like
oil. Yeah, it's very like wet and you know, like hard to describe. But when there's it's like
when it's like very dry seasons, like a lot of sun, not very much rain, it's dry, obviously.
But when it's rainy, it gets like wet as fuck. It's very, it's like, like that. So it's so it's
very slippery, you can like straight up slip on it. So it's pretty, pretty, pretty different from
all the rest of the world. It was actually kind of fun to me when I was a child. And first time
I remember going outside of Ukraine, we went to Greece, to my father's relatives in Greece.
And I remember seeing like the on the right, we were riding on my father's car, and it was a
long, long, long way. And we went there. And I remember seeing this like soil. And I was like,
what is that? I couldn't just understand why it's like the sandy brown reddish color.
And it's so like different. So to me, it felt like being on fucking Mars or something. You know,
so it's very, it's very different. And it is a strange experience because in the child's mind,
you have like those concepts, right? So you know what earth is, right? And it is like very,
very dark, like almost black to you, right? And then you go to like other parts and it's like
different, completely different, like a texture in color. And I was like, what is that? So, yeah.
So Ukraine is very, but apparently, like the most of the world looks like that. It's like the
Ukraine is different. Where I live, the ground's quite sandy is because I live quite near the
coast. I live on the Sunshine Coast in Australia. But most of Australia is red, like red soil.
Yeah, like a bar. Yeah, pretty much. Like,
if you can open up my Twitter, you can see that actually, that soil. I just posted a picture of
it with the guys, like we brought generator for them, maybe to show people or to see yourself
how actually incredibly dark and like greasy it is actually.
All right, I'll bring it up. Yeah. Oh, yeah, yeah, we'll see that. Yeah.
That's it. Yeah, that's how it is. So this picture with the generator on the right,
it's, yeah, you can see that, right? The next picture is, you can like see near his feet how
greasy and dark it is. Oh, wow. That's just your typical like soil. That's like your typical soil,
right? So we have the world's largest rock in Australia. It's like Uluru, which is...
Oh, it's so red. Yeah, it's so red. Yeah, pretty, very pretty. Yeah, that looks like Mars to me.
That looks like something you see on Mars, not on Earth. So, yeah.
I did also, I just also want to mention that if anyone
likes what we do here, Deep Drinks podcast, on Saturday, I'm interviewing Eli Yodas, who
survived an Amish cults where there was murder, child abuse and incest, and now he
tries to rescue children from them. And also, we have purity culture horror stories coming up,
which will be really fun with Feral Pass' wife. We talk about purity culture in the Christian
Church and talk about the horror stories of that. So that's going to be fun. But back to
what we're talking about. David talks are awesome. Support them. Thank you. It's very cool. Yeah,
it's really good, good, good conversations, in my opinion, way better than most stuff you hear
on the internet. So thank you. Do support him, please. I appreciate that. Some people are
writing in the comments. I don't think it's possible to not know about Himmars if you
keep up with the war in Ukraine. Obviously, I don't keep up enough then, because I didn't
know what they were. I knew what they were in the images and stuff, but I didn't know what they were
called. Come on, David just is not a fan of machine-tank murder. I keep up, yeah. I keep up
with, I don't really care about, like, I'm not a gun person. I hate guns, actually. I care more
about, like, the humanitarian stuff than I do about it. Well, if you want an expert on weaponry,
I don't look like one, but I am one. Because I am in Ukraine. And I know my javelines,
my stingers, my Heimers, you know, my Atoms, my all sorts of anti-airship, and you know.
It sounds like you're talking about, like, weapons and halo. I have no idea what any of those mean.
Like, in Australia, we don't have any guns at all. Well, we might have a couple in the
black market, but we had, like, the largest shooting, largest mass shooting in Australia
in 1989 or something. And there was, like, 40 people dead. I can't remember how many people
dead. I'm a little tipsy, but there was a lot of people dead. And we banned all guns after that.
I said, no, fuck off. And then the government said, fuck off. We're taking your guns. And
everyone went, yeah, right. Fucking give you guns. And then took all the guns away. And then since
then, we haven't had, we haven't even had a shooting with more than, like, two or three people,
like, ever. So then in Australia, like, culture of guns is completely, like, different from
United States, right? Yeah. Like, I saw, I think still farmers and stuff can get guns. And there
are some gun clubs and stuff, but it's very, it's much more protected. Like, I, where I live, I work
in a place called Maruchador. And I was driving past, there was a gun shop that opened up. And I
was, like, shocked. I was like, what the fuck is that doing here? Like, that's so fucking weird.
Everyone's like, this is bizarre. But there's still this black people who do hunting and stuff,
but you can't get, like, machine guns and, like, walk around schools with them and stuff, which is
um. So to be quite honest with you, like, up until this point, I was very, like, I guess, anti-guns
as a general. So I was, like, kind of confused with why in the United States, like, school
shootings and shit like that. I was, I understand that for you, American, it's quite important,
like, the guns are, like, part of their, like, vision of how the country should be. And I respect
that. But I thought that at least maybe some more proper gun control or something, or that people,
it's harder for people to get those guns, like, kill, like, a bunch of people in, like, three,
three motions of your hand. It's pretty bad. But, but then I, I did not want to, I was not, like,
pro-gun in Ukraine, although there was conversations about that, so people can have guns. And my
opinion somewhat changed, at least in terms of Ukraine, because sometimes I think about,
maybe if people in Buchia had guns, maybe they could have defended themselves, at least, and not
get, like, butchered, like, sheep with no means of protection. Possibly. Yes. I think about people
who were forced to watch their, like, loved ones getting raped and murdered in front of the
eyes. And I think that maybe they could have, maybe even, I know it sounds like awful, but at
least kill themselves, some women before this happened. And, you know, like, stuff like that.
So all men and women could have at least tried to had a better chance of, like, defending themselves
and not just being, like, lined up and shot in the head as they were. So, yeah. So this made me,
like, consider arguments that are more, like, pro-gun than before. At least when your neighbor
is Russia. I think Mexico will not attack, I think, you know, in the United States.
Yeah, I had friends who tried, like, I live in a very privileged society where there's not, like,
a large majority of guns in the streets that you'd have to get rid of if we tried to
tighten gun laws or anything. But, like, one of the things that one of my friends tried to say to
me about, like, you know, guns, is he's like, oh, I want to be able to protect myself if something
happens. Like, this is the start of COVID. And I need to, like, protect my family. And it's like,
but do you want to be protecting us, your family against people with guns or against people without
guns? Like, because, like, and he's like, well, I'd rather have a gun. It's like, yeah, but then
if you have a gun, the person likely has a gun. So it's just like a forced multiplier of, like,
whatever. You know, the same day that Sandy Hook happened, you know, which is the big, you know,
the school shooting in America where little, you know, five year olds were killed in the classroom.
The same day that happened, there was a school stabbing in China, and 22 students were stabbed.
Yeah, no, no. Zero died. Zero died. But it was really hard to kill people with a knife.
Yeah. If you're not in an Assassin's Creed game,
then it's easier to kill people with knives. But if you're not in an Assassin's Creed game,
then, well, it's hard, of course. You can kill quite a lot of people with your gun,
especially the gun that shoots, like, massive, you know, like, automated kind of, like, gun.
And yeah, yeah. So that's definitely something to be concerned about, I guess, in the United States,
because those school students are kind of insane, honestly. It's like their problems,
specifically their problem in, like, in this country that people, it's not like a third-world
country. It sounds rude, but it's how it is, you know. It's not like a third-world country when
you expect people to get shot on the streets. But something like that to happen in the United
States quite often is pretty, something needs to be done. But that's just up to them, of course.
It's not up to me or to you or to anyone else. So that's what they want to do with their guns.
And that's the thing. And like you said, if Russia, if Russia was my neighbor, I might have a different
opinion. But it's pretty good to have a gun. Guns can fuck right off, in my opinion, in Australia.
I don't see, like, us people in Australia need guns for what, exactly. I'm not sure. Yeah. But here,
yeah. We're subtle things by glancing someone in the face at the park. That's what we do.
There might be a conversation about legalization of weapons here, actually. Because I'm not,
like, exactly sure if it's good or bad thing right now. But a thing is, so many people have guns from,
like, they bought them, they got them, they stole them, whatever it is. And maybe it's a
better choice to legalize them and to officially register those owners of guns than to say people,
just give us the guns after war ends. I'm pretty sure people would not give them back, you know?
So it makes kind of a difficult situation. So what do you do with the huge amount of civilians
who now have guns and will not give them back most likely? So there's that. I actually used to have a
gun that I didn't never use. But my father gave it to me when the revolution was going on. And
I was like, dad, I don't know how to use it. I don't think I can shoot a person at all,
even if they're like, come from me, you know? And he was like, take it. What the fuck? Like,
take it. You need it because you're like, my daughter going on some revolution business. Like,
I will be like, I feel safer. And I was like, oh, all right, I just took it. But I never even took
it with me. Sorry, dad. Yeah, but I just pepper spray was the best I had on my down front. So
yeah, is, is, um, talking about your father, you got some pretty cool new tattoo, right?
Yeah, I did. I don't sure I can show you because this like, oh, it's not healed like properly yet.
But oh, yeah, that's awesome. Do you want to tell the story behind that? It's like an apricot,
basically, maybe not the best angle to show it. But yeah, that's awesome. And I don't know if you
can see it. It's not healed up like properly yet. And I need to really fade some parts to color to
make it like a little bit brighter. And yeah, so basically, my dad was a huge fan of apricots.
He used to grow them apricot trees in his garden. And we would pick up apricots all the time. So he
would like call us and tell us me and my sister, generally, and our friends sometimes as well,
would come to his place and pick up like apricots from the trees. And it was like a
basically a family activity or something like that. And do you can you get your father's house
tragically? Fuck, there's just so much happened like so much tragedy, but your father's house
burnt down recently, right? Can you get Oh, yeah, are there any of those trees still there? Or are
they not there anymore? No, trees were destroyed by artillery. So the fire that is doesn't matter,
it's just entire garden was destroyed by basically by artillery. So the burning down is
like a final shot in the head of this town of this house. So it's not that bad. But I will
after the conversation with you, I will actually go to to get a report from a local fireman who
who saw what happened and to maybe go to police as well to assess the damage. And I also need to find
the old lady that lived on the floor. My father's like in the house was like second floor was his.
And the first floor was the elderly lady lived there. She was she's like basically insane at this
point. She has like illegitimate like dementia, stuff like that. So she basically disappeared
like nobody can find her. And I am trying to find her and I'm not sure if I'll be able to. But
if I get this report that she was the one who responsible for the damage that was done by fire.
And then I could call the police basically on her to find her because her relatives do not
respond. And I don't know where like she's the ease or where she's staying and stuff. So we
didn't have like a good relationship but still like living here feels bad. So I probably should
try to find her, please. And maybe like find a place for her something because her apartment
like burned up entirely. Yeah, you're a good person. You're a good person. And I'm sure your dad
would love the fact that you got that awesome tattoo. Yeah, maybe that lady is a giant bitch,
I must say. She's still a human. She's still a human. Yeah. Yeah. But she's like,
again, she's not like well even so like she's like barely understands what is going on. And
you know, maybe at least they could find some like place to so someone someone who could like
care for her something because she's not capable of caring for herself and you know,
stuff like that. So I've been a huge advocate for you to create like a TikTok or something like
that to start vlogging your day to day stuff because you're you're getting like super popular
and you're getting interviewed and you're also ending up in university papers like you're getting
excited. What's that about? Tell us about that. So a person wrote me an email that they were
writing us a university paper about some stuff that is happening in Ukraine, which I guess many
people, especially those who like started like political sciences maybe or like, you know,
stuff like that they do write a history maybe or social studies something like that. So they do
talk I think about Ukraine obviously right now for because it is like a hot topic. But so they
basically cited me my interview with Dylan Burns as like a source in the university paper,
which I think not many people know about that, but it boosted my legitimacy in my eyes for sure.
Yeah, I did in the university, you know, so like that, British art actually.
That's so good. I think, I think, yeah, you need to start vlogging your content or like
creating TikToks or something. Imagine you're doing like a little dance in front of like a
destroyed building and go viral and then and you bring more attention to the
I just, I just, I really, really don't like social media that much and I know this is your
burden. This is the thorn in your side. This is what you need to do for humanity.
I already got Twitter. How more do you want me to talk about?
Oh, you got the most interest.
But that's people ask me to, you know, because they wanted to like, you know,
to know what how I'm doing to talk with me and stuff. And I only got had Facebook that I barely
used before war. So there's that. I just, I just really don't like it. I think it's a huge waste
of time. I have like my real life friends that I, you know, talk with and hang out with. I don't
know. I don't need to start avoiding real life, get into a dark room and just you need to play
video games and you need to like chat to people online. That's, that's, that's how to live a good
life. I think about it. Honestly, people say I should start like YouTube and shit. And I barely
have the time to sleep guys. I really like can't imagine filming shit and film yourself sleeping.
That would go viral in itself. Like people do it.
That's yuck. I'm sorry. Have you seen those people do that? They like film themselves asleep. And
if people don't know it, it sets an alarm off and then wakes them up. So like it's a live video.
Yeah. I know it's great, right? The internet is, the internet is such a wonderful place sometimes.
I love the creep. So if anyone, I am, I wanted to jump into some questions and answers because
you've, like you mentioned, you've got some stuff to do. And tonight you're going on not so erudite
stream. Is that right? Cool. So if people are still up in that side of the world, go check out
not so erudite and say hello from deep drinks. If you're a deep drink, sir. Good sir. I don't know
what deep drinks people are, but if you're from deep drinks, say hello. So but I, deep drinkers,
that's it. That's it. So I have a few questions. And if anyone got any questions, leave me in
the comments now. But I want to get to know you better as like a person. So I don't actually
know much about you besides the most tragic and impactful parts of your life. But so I'm just
going to ask you some really basic questions. What's your favorite music?
I listen to a lot of stuff. So not exactly like when I was a teen, I mostly listened to rock music
primarily. And it still kind of is my fave. But I do listen to electronic stuff as well. I listen
to a little bit of rap as well, but not much. And yeah, but quite a lot of like dark waves stuff I
like 80s music I really like. So synth and shit like that. And I do love a lot of stuff. So so
yeah, but but primarily like rock music. One of my favorite absolute favorite bands is Falls,
which is a British band. I even managed to get to their concert before like Corona shit.
And it was pretty based in Kiev. And yeah, that was I think the last concert actually went to,
which is okay, because I used to go all the time. And yeah, and it was like coronavirus who
destroyed that that activity for me. But also, you know, now it's not love the type of concerts
that's for sure. So yeah. Do you like do you like metal at all? Or is it just rock?
I don't really listen to metal that much. Some bands I did like when I was like younger. Yes.
But I metal not as much, but depends on the on the band some some what are some rock bands that
you like some big some ones that I might know. Falls is basically a rock band, but it's kind of
like an alternative type of vibe. But I am huge. I was a huge fan and still am a system of the down
if you know, love system. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I do love them. So it was my favorite like that when I
was a, you know, a teenager and still kind of kind of ease because I really like enjoyed
and you know, stuff like that. Cornell also love a lot. And it is kind of a new metal. So I guess
considered considered some hardcore stuff I do listen to but not as much. If you go as far as
like Slipknot or Marilyn Manson or anything like that. Yeah, I was huge fan of Marilyn
Manson when I was a teenager as well. I do listen to it sometimes now. I just that I don't listen
as heavy music as much now. And yeah, but Slipknot I used to I actually not as much, but my sister's
boyfriend, first boyfriend was huge fan of Slipknot and he was like, you know, playing their stuff
a lot. So I heard it, but it's like, although I do like it's one of their, of their, how should I
say it? Or less heavy song, but maybe you know, it's called Dead Memories. I really enjoy it.
Fucking epic video. I really like it. Is that the one? Is Dead Memories the
it's more like not as early music? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I don't I don't this it's from the
album. I can tell I can tell from the album from the mask. It was the album I missed out on.
So I was a big fan of like Subliminal Versus Three. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then and then later on,
but I missed this this album wasn't a big, big one for me. This this one I do enjoy a lot. And
also the video is just it's it's it's majestic. It's absolutely stunning in terms of like how it's
done and the message in it. I do recommend like chicken it out. Because it's brilliant and always.
And yeah, so yeah, I did listen like to some heavy stuff. I like Godsmackle. So I
one of my absolute favorite bands still it's not metal, but it's kind of on a heavier side is too.
I don't know. I've been I've been listening to so much too lately, like I've only just got into it.
Yeah, that's one of my favorite bands of all time. I've been I was I did listen to
I forgot what the album is called a email or something. Yeah. Yeah. And then I started listening
to later Alice recently. And then the two albums I've listened to, I like to listen to whole albums
rather than like bits and pieces. Yeah, I do that as well. Always. I have like albums with dates and
with like shit. Like, you know, like, I actually have like physical albums as well. It's crazy. Oh,
wow. Yeah, also, if you do love a tool to give a perfect circle a chance. It's okay. I've listened to
that's with them. It's actually it's actually Maynard, who is the vocalist of the tool. It's
like his project, basically. It's really in is to isn't to even mirrors. Who wasn't he like the
bass player of them to be Ramirez? Perfect circle is one of his of his projects as well as two. So I
hot steak, but I actually like perfect circle even more than two. Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah,
to me, it's even more interesting. But yeah, so let's stop like that. Honestly, I was a huge
like placebo fan girl. But this is like indie post punk, more like rock type of stuff. And I was
listening to it a lot. And I went to like maybe like 10 concerts of theirs when I was young. So
yeah, so it was pretty, pretty lit. Yeah, I was a little bit of all of the Ukrainian stuff. And we
have pretty great music, actually. But not many people know it. But rock, rock and electronic
music is probably in Ukraine and hip hop as well. You'll have to give us some some Ukrainian music
to listen to. And I'll give you some if you know my taste now. So give me some you'll have to give
like text me some artists and I'll listen to it. And the next time you're on, I'll do a review with
you. Yeah, but mostly Ukrainian stuff is rarely heavy. It's mostly like rock. Hey, I can get into
it. Yeah, I like Bob Dylan, Neil Young, I like rap, I like I like all sorts of music. Yeah.
Oh, rap is super popular in Ukraine. And also, we have like this electronic vibe. So our like pop
music is mostly electronic folk. So blend like of electronic music with folk ethnic music. It's
incredibly popular in Ukraine. It's like the most most popular music. So basically, since our
independence, there was this revival of everything ethnic people just like craved this like cultural
expression of that was suppressed for so many decades and even centuries. And music our music
generally have some kind of blend of you know, like of folk and ethnic sound to it. So yeah. So
it's funny to say because that's that's what System of a Down has. It has like these these
Armenian folk bands to metal. It's incredible. They added quite a lot in a lot of their music
as well. Yes. Favorite movie. Man, I have so many favorite movies. I have to name one. I do love
in bruise, I think it's called in English. Bruge is that it's laid down in bruise or something
like that. In Russian it's in English in bruise, I think. In bruise. Okay.
Oh my god, it's Iopic. I will try to find it. It's in bruise. I don't know. Okay. Yeah. Yeah,
in bruise. Yeah. This is one of my definitely one of my top favorite movies. It's absolute
masterpiece. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I really love it. It's pretty dark like in its films. It's
like a tragic comedy basically. And yeah, it is it is depressing in some parts, but it also
extremely beautiful and very funny. So yeah, I do recommend it highly and this and other works of
this filmmaker as well. Pretty based not only this one. So yeah, so this one I think is pretty good.
It's like a fucking fairy tale, Tyler said. Okay. In bruise. Yeah, in bruise. Yeah. It is. Oh,
it's a comment. Oh my god, it's like a reference. Oh, you're so cute. Oh, is it? Yeah, it's reference
to the movie. It's just that one of the basically the whole idea behind this movie was that the
filmmaker went to Belgium in in rouge and he was like, holy shit, this is so beautiful, but also
so fucking boring. So you know, because it's like very calm, very like a European middle age middle
age middle ages type of town. It's so it's very like pretty like a fairy tale, but also very boring
at the same time. So both characters kind of represent that are there. They're like killers
that are hiding in the hiding and they hide in in all of the places in in bruise in Belgium.
So they basically completely different characters that both represent the vision of this like
a filmmaker of his feelings about this, but in a very like tragic comedy way. And and they talk
about bruise all the time in a like very negative way in very positive way. There is a phrase there
that's it's a fucking fairy tale, man. So yeah, yeah, so this is like a yeah, it's a very great
film, obviously. But yeah, and the actors did a much better job. So yeah, other than that, I also
really love the such as the new best knocking on heaven's door, I think it's called in English.
It's a pretty old film. It's hard to me because I don't know how they called in English.
Yeah, but I think it's easy. It's 1979. That looks
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, right. It's old. That that one if you show me like the pic, I maybe
tell you that it's that or not. Yeah, that one. It's fucking awesome. I love this guy. Yeah,
also, I do love transporting a lot. Okay, I have only watched half of transporting.
Yeah, it is pretty like a intense film. Let's put it like that. But it is brilliant,
honestly, like the best Scottish thing ever. I love it. What a beautiful people Slava,
Ukraine. That's Michael Granada. You've been on his channel as well. Oh, hello, Michael. I remember
you. And someone's he's good dude. And someone said, Anna, you are very well spoken. You're
your great ambassador for Ukraine. I hope you can build a platform to get the world to listen.
It's important to continue to support the Ukraine. That's a sign. You should build a
Tik Tok or a YouTube or something. And it's torn beyond again. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah,
I thank you very much. I will try but it's just honestly really hard to do right now because
of the blackout and the just lack of time I have for, you know, everything, honestly. Yeah,
so yeah, really hard. I mean, so there's that. Yeah, I'm super busy with and my wife and I
about to have a baby. But if there's anything I can do to help at all times. Thank you. Where we
it was our first baby can see through IVF. So, so we're very stoked. But if you need help,
I'll try and help as much as I can if you decided to make a YouTube or something like that.
Thank you. Favorite book?
If you read? I do read. I actually like what what what would be your favorite book? Or
favorite author? Oh, I really love used to be a huge fan of Chuck Polanik,
which is Fight Club, by the way, one of my favorite movies. Yeah, right movie. Yeah. So
this one, I do love his older stuff, especially. I'm huge fan of Kerouac, Jack Kerouac. And
I'm on the road, one of his favorite, one of his like most popular books. I do love
Gilbert Adair. I don't know if you know him. And yeah, I also love
how do you how do you call that book in English? I think
I think it's whatever he's the author is Jeanette. It's a French author. I really love
his stuff as well. It's pretty gay. But but really, really amazing, interesting work. Yeah,
so that's what I like. Have you read any Haruki Murakami?
Yeah, I did actually do love him a lot. Yeah. What's have you read Kafka on the show?
Yes. Yeah. I recently, I actually love Kafka himself. I mean, he's he's booked. Oh,
France Cafe. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I went to a party recently and I suggested a bunch
of people read Kafka on the show. And I was like, it's the best. It's the best. It's amazing. Yeah.
And started like listening to an audio version. And I forgot how
like it's essentially a rhodosystem and something like it's talking. It's like,
yeah, it's pretty boring. Yeah. And I'm like, oh, God, what are these people going to think of me?
I was talking it up like it's the best book ever. And it's pretty much like there's a lot of
incest in there and sex and great book, great book. I really love Mishima as well from Japanese
Kyo Mishima works. It's just not a work friendly books and
Is that the guy who wrote No Longer Shuman?
No Longer Shuman. I don't know, honestly. I know like,
yeah, the confession of mask, I think it's called in English, Isperi mask in Russian and
you know, so many languages like that's crazy.
Yeah, but I do Mishima is pretty cool, but very like weird as Japanese stuff. So some like cannibalism
fantasies and you know, pretty gay as well again. So there's that. And yeah, so this I do like I do
that fantasies as well. So Tolkien I love and yeah, I also am pretty huge Dune fan. So I've got
that one bookshelf ready to read. I haven't. I am as well. You can see it like maybe on the top.
There's like books atop. There's like a lot of Dune stuff right there. Someone asked this. This
isn't my question. But someone asked favorite anime if you watch anime?
Monster is my favorite. Anywhere for sure. Okay, cool. Yeah, it is quite long like 70
something episodes and it is incredibly serious shit. So no like Kawai shit in there. It's a
detective tragedy, a very like deep story about humanity, I guess, and very accurate. So a lot
of like genocides, war, fascist Nazi shit. And it is incredibly accurate, accurate in terms of how
it represents stuff as well. So okay, I'm gonna have to put that on my list is it is awesome.
When you're considering on the road, is that do you think it's a book I would enjoy? Is it like a
novel? You mean anime or Monster? On the road, the book on the road by Jack on the road by Jack
on the road. Yeah, on the road. Yeah, on the road, I see. Yeah, yeah, it is pretty interesting
thing to read. It's about pretty much the period of in in how do you call them not Gen X, but
not Gen X, but I think you call them Gen, no, no, Gen X. Bitnik, they called bitniks, bitnik
generation. Yeah, so it's calls about the like this after war, after World War generation,
that was like this very, you know, friske sometimes they like would study to wear jeans and drink
shit and you know, like sexual revolution type of business was on the horizon. And this is like
there like he's they were there was like this breakage of I guess values of like family values
of traditions and he explored that with his friends. And yeah, that's pretty much what the book is
about. And his real his real life like adventures and friends who inspired the book. He was like
basically a bit of a like voyeurist, voyeurist, voyeurist. He was like, observing where there's
people and getting inspired by their lives is what he did basically. And yeah, yeah.
Look, and I'm, I'm nervous, but I might have to give monster ago. I'm nervous because I'm not a
huge anime fan. I only really like if you don't like, oh, that's great. But this is like a classic.
But if you don't like anime, you will actually like monster, because it's not your tip. It
does not your typical anime. It's like, it's, it's animated like movie more like, so it feels like
so there's no like, you know, like Kawaii shit, there's no like big, big eyed stuff. There's no
like exaggerated emotions like stuff would generally expect to see in anime. This is like very serious,
very the manga it was made of is incredibly like, it's like a novel basically with pictures. So
it's very pretty deep. And the story is quite gruesome, but very like touching also in a way.
So I love that. We've been talking about some like really serious stuff and like talking about like
world issues and the comments have been pretty chill. Soon as we start mentioning anime, everyone's
like, oh, monster is good. I think you like it, David. It's a classic American beat like everyone's
is commenting like, so all right, I might have to check it out. It is, it is very good. I also
actually one of the most gripping things I've probably seen in terms of values of people,
of how to stick to them, of goodness and, you know, of trying to live by your morals and how
hard it is sometimes. And yeah, it is pretty, pretty, pretty intense stuff. And I do recommend
it for sure. But I also love it is a bit of a more like a girly, I guess, anime you would say,
but it is called paradise case. I really love it as a as a as a teen, I used to watch it all
the time. And it is very beautiful, but it is like more like a romantic fashion, like self
discovery journey of a young like girl basically. But it is pretty pretty based in terms of like
aesthetics and fashion. But I do recommend monster more. Yeah, yeah, but it is it is pretty beautiful
as well, paradise case. I remember it's kind of like made an impact on me as a young person.
But it is maybe more of a young person, you know, like anime kind of vibe,
most definitely for adults for sure. Okay, it's funny how some books and like movies and stuff
like make a really impact on you. And then they've got like a special place. Like, I love how books
can change you like as a person, like, not to get all weird and deep, but there's some books like
for me, my favorite books are like, my favorite novels are like Norwegian Wood by Mirakami.
That book that book like broke me as a like, like you said, like, some some stuff like, oh,
that's like the American, some of the books you were saying were pretty gay before. I'm straight,
but like, if I turn me gay, Mirakami, I don't care, Norwegian Wood, like the writing was so I
remember actually getting off that stream and being like, that man could probably make me get
like, I talked to my friends on the game, I was like, that that book just like touched my soul
in some weird way that I've, it was just incredible. It broke me. And then I never, I never heard the
song Norwegian Wood. Well, never properly listen, I'm sure I heard it somewhere. I never heard the
Beatles song Norwegian Wood until I read the book. And then when I listened to it for the first time,
like it hit me like, I nearly cried, like I was just like, fuck, like it's just, it
bring the story into that. It was just yeah, yeah, it is. When you asked me what was my favorite book,
yes, I blamed you down some authors, but actually it was like very impacted. I think I really love
it still like Portrait of Dorian Gray, Oscar Wilde. Oscar Wilde is a classic British like writer.
And yeah, so this one was something that I really like, it was my favorite book for sure for many
years. So maybe like not now, but I do, I do love it. Yeah. So Portrait of Dorian Gray, okay. Yeah.
Don't watch the movies, they're awful. Every adaptation of this, of this book is horrendously
bad. But the book itself is pretty, pretty, pretty interesting. And the concept is just amazing and
always. And it was like copied by many media, different media, this idea of this person. And
it was very original, but also quite deep in terms of like, you know, like psychology of people, I
guess. Right. Okay, well, I'm going to have to read that one as well. Have you read Stoner by John
Williams? What can you say again? Stoner by John Williams? No, I didn't, didn't. It's not about a
Stoner, like someone who smokes weed. It's a guy in the book called William Stoner. And it's like,
it's a book where it feels like nothing happens in the book, it goes through someone's entire life
from like, when they're a kid all the way to the death. It feels like nothing happens, but like a
very average, boring life, like, he gets married, they're not happy, he becomes a teacher, he gets
but it somehow is just the perfect novel. I don't know how to describe it, but it's a really short
book. Yeah, sometimes about the writing is what grips you really, not like the plot plot. I love
some, some cool plots. But but sometimes it's like, yeah, so what Dorian, portrait of Dorian Gray is
the book that has like, very interesting concept for sure, like a very unique kind of plot. But
some books are like on the road, it describes just your basic like shit. But at the same time, it's,
you know, it's kind of feels like real life and but written in such a way that he grips you, I guess.
So yeah. Okay. There's some other book on my mind that I just can't remember right now, but it is,
it is the one like that I do love a lot. Fuck, maybe, maybe I remember it at some point and like
message you one of my favorite books. And it's weak as it hit me right in the fields as well. But
when I was like deconstructing my faith was God is not great by Christopher Hitchens.
I read it. I read it. Yeah. Yeah. And that maybe it was because the audio book, because I mainly
listen to audio books, mainly, I listen to heaps, but mainly, because the audio book had him
narrating it and had Mozart or some classical music in between. It just for some reason,
it just hit me really weird and made me feel a lot better about what I was going through. Because
I was like, I was like a Pentecostal youth pastor, Christian speaking in tongues, praying for people
like I was, you know, so to deconstruct from that faith was a huge journey for me. And that book
really, you know, the points near the second half of the book aren't great for me, but like
or anything, but it's not really the points. It's like somehow the poultry and the writing.
I don't know. They got to me. That's not a good book for me. I remember one of my absolute favorite
films that should be definitely top five is Viva Vendetta. I've wanted to watch that for years.
It is amazing. I really, I have the comic book, actually. It was like physical comic book. And
it is a little bit different from the movie. But this is like a rare instance when the movie changed
some stuff and then actually got not exactly better, but you know, like it didn't make it worse,
I guess. So yeah, the movie is pretty, pretty based, I'd say. Very, I think you would like it,
like it, considering like what I heard from you. I think it would be interesting to you because
it does talk about like, you know, like about the totalitarian regimes, about personal responsibility,
about thinking, like, thinking, thinking for yourself. It does talk about that every person
who tolerates basically fascism and intolerance towards others, how they create the society
themselves as well by tolerating this stuff and getting it take, letting it take hold. I very
like this twist of like personal responsibility there about how people are docile and how they
pretty much out of fear, they succumb their liberties, their freedoms to, for safety and
comfort. But then that creates those like very totalitarian regimes. And yeah, it also talks
about like a lot of like oppression of people of like religious thought and gay and, you know,
like all sorts of that. So it's pretty, pretty interesting. But most of all, I think it's
brilliant in terms of showing how resistance truly should be to such how important it is to
to resist such regimes from ever, ever gaining power, which is something I think very accurate.
And, you know, on the time, when we talk about Russia, for example, so yeah.
In preparation for our last interview, I started reading on you on tyranny.
And he released a second part with on tyranny, which is 21 lessons for the 21st century, but
on tyranny on Ukraine, because the first part of the book, or maybe 24 on Ukraine, the first
book is he talks about like the threat of Putin and the threat of like his perspective. And then
now he re-released the audio version talking about that. See, this is what's happening in Ukraine,
like Russia is fucking everyone. Like this is what I was talking about. And he talked so it's
really, it was really good. Listen, the audio audible version. But so we have, I do need to
be mindful of your time and my time. But someone said, Hitchens was an introduction for a whole
new way of thinking for me. Yeah, me too. Let us to a young contrarian. That is another great book
by Hitchens. And if you like Hitchens, mortality was amazing. He was writing that on his deathbed
as he was dying of cancer. And it's probably it's incredible the way he did the way his perspective
is about death as like the post boy for atheism. Someone asked, what did what did the average
Ukrainian think of Americans before the war compared to now?
Well, now the opinion about Americans and America as like United States is definitely up
uncomparatively to what it was before. So people are appreciative for the help in pretty grateful
and see the West in much more, you know, like more, more like a ally of sorts and more like
more pleasantly for sure. But it wasn't like in the in Russia. So since 90s, nobody pretty much
talked that much about the United States. So it wasn't like constant like propaganda or the evil
West, you know, Western degeneracy, gays are coming to, you know, the gays are coming. Yeah,
annular rape you. So this is like, basically, so this is like the the red slot Russia. So it's
Russian wipe, not ours. And after the development of Soviet Union, people did not like talk that
much about the West. So and also, we got started to like consume basically like pop pop culture,
like media from the West and specifically from United States as well. So it was like kind of
like a neutral to pleasant, basically. So it was not like bad, even before the war at all,
maybe even only only to like very elderly people who like lived their whole lives in
Soviet Union, maybe they would be like cautious, I guess, and maybe have like negative opinions
about United States. But most like younger people would pretty like from neutral to like pleasant
and, you know, good, basically. And, but now it's even elderly people are like very chuffed
about United States, which is pretty pretty surreal to see. So we me and Dylan went to this
residential area in hierarchy of cold Saltevka, permission Saltevka in Ukrainian and
Severnaya Salta of kind Russian, it was pretty destroyed, basically. So like a six, more than
half a million people lived there and they no longer live there. So, yeah. And there's like
Marine Point level of destruction there. So I took Dylan there, me and Igor and Dylan went to
film stuff there. And we met that elderly gentleman. I think he was like maybe 70 something maybe. And
he was still lives there, which is pretty rough. I don't know how he does it. But basically he was
like, do you think this will be rebuilt? Is there a chance that they will like help us restore this
whole thing? And it was like, well, we don't know for sure. But we hope so that after the war ends,
that people will restore, you know, the damage and some something cannot be restored to be quite
honest, you just need to be removed and rebuilt entirely. And but I didn't want to like, you know,
to tell that to this person. And I was like, Yeah, there is like hope, don't worry. And
when I like, you need to move away from here. It's impossible to live here in winter times.
There's like no water, no heat, no electricity. You just you just you need to find someplace else
for yourself. And he was like, Well, you see like this apartment, it's mine. It's the only one that
didn't burn up in this entire building. How can I leave it? You know, stuff like that, basically.
And really, pretty sad, pretty sad, honestly. But then I was like, do you want to like say something
to like my American friend, he's doing like a journalist project on to show what's happening
in Ukraine and in Harkiv specifically. And he was like, very shy, he didn't want to talk. But
then he was like, Yeah, yeah, we'll talk. And then he was part of his like, what he said to Dylan
on camera was basically thinking United States and he did even a little bow to Dylan, which is
pretty surreal, honestly. Yeah. Yeah, he like put his hand on his heart and he was like this. So
this is like, if you really like, think the person is is lit. I think you'll, I think you'll
thank you. Thank you. Yeah. So this is what you do, basically, like bow a little with your head
and you like put a hand on your heart. It expresses like the appreciation the most about as much as
you can possibly. So yeah, so this is pretty surreal to see because I'm pretty sure that before
this, he would never like do that to an American 20 something year old guy. And just because,
you know, he came to film stuff in the Harkiv. So yeah, this is so the change is pretty significant,
I'd say, especially to elderly people for sure. But we will not hate America great hate trend
before. So it was like neutral mostly. So two last questions. Do you have a message for
you? This is your asses to you last time. And I want to see it with you probably very similar.
But do you have a message for the Ukrainian army? I'm not sure they will listen to you to your
podcast. But if they did, I do say my messages to them all the time in person, you know,
because I did talk to them. Yeah, when I do my volunteer stuff. But the message is the same,
honestly. The message is just, you know, hold on guys. I know it's really, really hard, especially
at this time already. And winter is going to be here. And we will do everything we can to support
you, to keep you warm, to feed you, to assist you in any way we can. We love you all. And every
single one of you is a hero to me and to everyone. And we are only having our lives right now,
because you chosen to maybe sacrifice yours or put yourself in awful danger for all of us,
which is should be forever respected by everyone. And not only Ukrainians, I think,
but literally everyone. And yeah, so we do really care about all of you. And I finally got a message
from my best friend. He did not respond for me to me nearly four weeks. So I was on the front
lines. He was in the like the hardest like places. And I was starting to get worried that he died,
which is pretty possible. But at the same time, I was on his list. Me, my sister and his best friend,
another friend, were on his list to notify if he dies. So I did not receive such an notification.
So I thought that maybe he's fine. But still four weeks without like anything. And I got
several like reports. And people told me in other military people that in Bakhmut,
we lost a lot of people. And half the battalions were like gone. And he was there last time I
spoke with him. So yeah, but he just messaged me a couple days ago. And he said that he was injured
pretty bad. And he's in a hospital in Harkinsk Oblast. And but he's pretty okay and will be
returned to kick in Russian asses in two weeks or three. So he's fine. And yeah, he's alive. And
that's something. Yeah. And I would people like to people to know that this is every soldier,
basically. So he this is just my best friend, right? But there's like his someone there's people
are someone's sons, brothers, friends, fathers, you know, and husbands, boyfriends, whatever,
girlfriends, if it's women serving and daughters and mothers. So yeah, this is just people. This is
not like some aliens. And I feel like many people, many people treat in the West. Sometimes I feel
like in America, I also hear the sentiments a lot. They like to talk about their military,
like they're like aliens or something. You know, but this is just it's people like it's
people as everyone else. So yeah, so yeah, to me, it's very obvious because this is my best friend,
this is friends other friends who serve. This is like, I talk with them when I go to do volunteer
work. And this is just just your people just your regular people not different from anyone else,
only a bit braver than most, I guess. So you probably like already say this a million times,
but I wonder if you had a little message for DGG. Yeah, well, they know my message already. I think
they're cute replies. This is my main message. I was I really am grateful 100% for everything they
did and really, but they just not only like a form of like financial support, which is obviously
very important, I was able to do a lot in terms of volunteer help and seeing those smiley faces when
you get them like thermal wear and like generators and, you know, like medical supplies. I just
recently posted a picture of I got in contact with the local combat doctor like combat military
doctor. And he asked me if I can help with getting meds quite a lot of medical pills and stuff like
that for the army. We did bought quite a lot. So this is like, you know, just something you do.
And this is something you do when you help because it's your money like I use I do like
buy it and deliver and stuff like that. But it's just only possible because of your donations.
So I'm very grateful, of course. But just in general, they just treated me incredibly well.
And I enjoy talking with them when they can. And yeah, overall, I think I do love my cute advice.
So yeah, I love DGG. Well, I don't know, I guess I'm part of DGG. Like I've been watching
Justin for years on public. Yeah, so I wanted to share your stuff one more time. Make sure guys,
if you want to help with any of the volunteering work she does, please go donate to her PayPal.
That's her email just there. Go straight to PayPal.com, put in her email and you can send her
Be careful, guys. There are a lot of like people now that are pretending to be me.
Scumbags. Yeah, so I don't post anywhere other than Twitter pretty much. So not Reddit posts or
something like this court. It's not me. So if a person like says like they make my they took
my picture, my name and like the flag even behind like the field with the sky. So they like pretend
to be me. The most glorious one was what that was asking for money in Peso, which is I'm not sure
what I will do in Peso in Ukraine from Latin America. I think it is Mexican, Mexico, maybe I
don't know. So basically like, yeah, so this is not me. Basically, I don't ask for money at all.
I only like post on Twitter and talk about it on streams. So if you see like any messages
anywhere else, it's not me and be very careful with the email. They like change one letter
in my email to, you know, pretend it's me. So yeah, be careful, please, because there's nothing
I can do about it, honestly. Yeah. But so go here, press Ctrl C, copy this email,
go to PayPal and send her all of your money. No, no, send me all of your money.
It goes to a good cause helping get people to fight off the orcs, to fight off the Russian invasion
and to stop like directly stop terrorism or directly help those who are injured from this
terrorism. So yeah, guys. So it's been a pleasure once again. It's so easy to talk to you. We've
been talking for 2015 minutes. It's and there's more stuff to put a gun into but it's so easy
talking to you. You're always welcome back on deep drinks and we'll probably catch up again
another few months if you're keen just to get another update on the war. But it's been lovely
having you on. Is there anything else you want to say before we go? No, not really just follow
David. He's cool. And yeah, yeah, he's like we want some I would share some dirt on you.
You literally signed yourself as a very cool guy in my messenger.
Oh, because you call me you call me a very cool. You said you're my very cool guy. So I
changed my Facebook messenger to to be a very cool guy. I think I'm Stardust said when like I
interviewed Stardust. Do you know who Stardust is? Yeah, yeah, I know. Yeah, she called me home.
She said go everyone go follow. She was just saying something. She's like everyone go follow
Dave. He's super bass super chill. So I with my mates I changed my name in the group chapter
super bass super chill. It's your move, apparently, right? Yeah,
you heard a very cool guy. So let's subscribe if you like this content.
Yeah, do that. And yeah, I hope to like, you know, maybe like talk again soon at some point.
But there's a lot of stuff that's going on. And yeah, so I will like message you sometime.
Yeah, yeah, so we can like chill again, I guess, and it was very pleasant. And I'm not
bust whatsoever. So I'm really, you know, good to do my business, talking to firemen and policemen
without being looking really bust. So yeah, that's good. Yeah, despite our like drinking
for bullshit. Like it was a great game. I'll have to come up with another drinking game next time.
All right, guys, I'll see you later. Bye.
