everyone to the follow-up panel on purity culture.
This is Deep Drinks, the deepest podcast on the internet, and today we have an amazing panel.
In our previous discussion, we touched upon the fact that certain experiences within purity
culture could well be likened to horror stories. Our goal in this session is to carry forward
that dialogue. We wish to address the often difficult journey of surmounting sexual guilt,
overcoming shame, dismantling stigmatization, and dealing with the deficiencies of sexual education.
What does a healthy sex life look like for each of us? What are some of the tips that we wish we knew
when we were building a healthy relationship with sex? Is monogamy for everyone?
And are non-believers required to participate in monthly orgies?
Hopefully we'll answer all these questions. We're not experts, except Jeremy and Ben,
but we'll be going, but we will all be going, but we are all going to share the things that have
helped us as individuals. It's unlikely that all panellists will have the same sex life, goals,
desires, or advice. Everyone is unique. There is no right or wrong answers. Take everything
you hear with a grain of salt. If you get something out of it, great. If not, that's all good.
Please be respectful in the comments. No kink shaming. Super chat your questions,
and we'll answer them at the end of the live stream. Let's go.
Hey, welcome everyone to another Deep Drinks panel. It's super exciting. I did promise
I would move my wife away from the first position, and I came back. So welcome everyone to another
amazing panel. First of all, I'll ask everyone to introduce themselves, and Ben will start with you.
All right. Well, I'm Dr. Ben. I am a resident family medicine physician, and I have a show
called Medical Myths, which is on my channel. We're just family. Dr. Ben, I'm also a host on the
Transatlantic Collin Show and talk heathen. So a lot of places on the internet, but I mostly debunk
bad science. So I'm here today, I guess, to talk about more of the medical side of purity culture
and that kind of thing. Cool. Amy. I'm Amy. I am David's wife.
I'm just excited to have a chat with everyone today and see how this goes.
Cool. Jeremy. I am Jeremy Schumacher. I am a licensed marriage and family therapist.
I have a podcast called Your Therapist Needs Therapy, and I work with religious trauma,
and I work with couples. So kind of an overlap between doing couples counseling and how something
like purity culture can really stick with someone in the form of religious trauma.
Awesome. Nicole. I am Nicole Mitchell. I am known as the pastor turned stripper. I'm also a life
coach. I used to be the poster child for purity culture, and I have found a lot of healing
in my journey in becoming a slut and then becoming free and in becoming one of only
top creators, and I'm so happy to have this conversation today. Awesome. Stacey. Stacey's
mom podcast. I'm Stacey, and I also go by the username apostasy. I'm happy to be back again
on this awesome panel with all these wonderful people. My mom and I just started a podcast,
a deconstruction podcast together called the Stacey's Mom podcast, and I'm also a co-host on
the secular soap box every Wednesday night here on YouTube. So thank you so much for having me back,
and I am also a survivor of purity culture. Clearly, that's why I am here to discuss with
all of you. Also, I forgot to ask, what is everyone drinking? So I'm like, you know,
I wasn't going to drink alcohol, and then Amy is a little nervy. So Amy is like, I'm drinking
gin. I'm like, all right, cool. So then I'm like, you're drinking gin. We've got a family picnic
after this. So I'm like, we're just going to go for a walk, have a picnic. So if you're drinking
gin, I'm going to drink something. So I drink, I'm drinking spice rum and Coke. Amy's drinking gin.
What is everyone else drinking? I've got a marg with like 110 proof tequila. So I told everybody
that I'm moving in a few days. So we're getting crunk tonight because I got to empty some bottles,
so I don't have to take them with me.
Does everyone else go drink? So have we? Yes. Cool. I'm drinking spice rum as well.
And I mixed it with pineapple bubbly water.
Oh, interesting.
I went to make myself a latte and found out I was out of milk. So then I just
was stuck with my plattery. So that's it. I love that every time you've been on, Nicole,
you've had like some sort of a slight drink.
Trying to hydrate, not drinking water.
Yeah, that's awesome.
I have a double IPA. It's called Zombie Ice from Three Floyds. I thought we started at 8 p.m.
my time, not going to lie. And it was seven. So I had like plans for a big fancy drink.
And then I was like, oh, guess we're just having a beer.
Awesome. Awesome. Okay. Well, that's so good. Like, so Nicole, if we all start to sway a little
bit, you can like, you can run the show. But yeah, it's great. And everyone in the chat,
let's know what you're drinking. It doesn't have to be alcoholic or something,
anything, but grab a drink and chill out and let's have a great conversation.
So the first question I want to ask everyone is if you could go back in time
and give yourself one piece of advice regarding sex, purity, culture, what would that be?
Let's use this to kick off our conversation.
Okay, I know my answer. I'll go first because I always say it to my husband.
Um, we should have had sex right away. I say it to him all the time. I'm like,
I we just should have when I when I knew that I wanted to. So yeah.
Okay. So did you did you guys wait until you were married to have sex?
Yes, we waited for the act of intercourse.
Well, yeah.
And he says, it's okay. Don't worry. I didn't feel deprived. We had a lot of fun,
but I wish we could just done what we wanted to do because I still felt that.
Yeah.
How about, how about everyone? I don't know. I, I, I, Amy and I waited until we were married to
have intercourse. I will say, is that even the right? Is that even the right? Because we did
other stuff that was, no, we did other stuff. So it's like,
like, did we have sex before? Like what, what did you classify as sex? I guess, but like,
I don't know. We didn't have intercourse yet until we're married. Um, the same.
But, um, my, what I would tell myself if I could go back in time is to just,
just not take it so seriously. Like just enjoy, enjoy the pleasurable things in life and don't,
don't, uh, try and, um, take away, like, don't try and, uh, hold, hold back the giant. I guess
it just makes, like, it just makes things more complicated than worse.
Yeah. I think it made it a little bit more stressful and not as enjoyable because you're
constantly thinking about what you're, what you're doing or what you're not doing, what you're not
going to be doing. Um, yeah, I'd, I'd agree with that.
I think, I think for me, like, um,
a big thing has always been shame around things like kink or, uh, like anything outside of
like missionary position. Uh, and so like, uh, I would probably tell myself that, like, you're not
broken for having certain sexual fantasies and it's okay to explore those and figure out what
you like and what you don't like as long as you're being consensual with other people and you're
being safe, like it's okay to, to not all like the same things. And sometimes, sometimes kink can be fun.
Yeah, 100%. Um, just to, just to butt in there with the kink, kink thing, we played this game,
this drunken game. I was telling the, the guests, um, uh, the, the, the panelists, so before we went
live that we, we often in Australia, we drink, um, but a lot, but we usually, I, we, I didn't go out,
we drink at my house and we like have a fire and play Mario party and then go for a drunk
and walk to a playground or something. That's what like, well, that's a fun night for us.
But we have this game called the kink game and I ask everyone, like, someone throws out a kink,
it can be like anything, it can be like kissing, it can be like butt stuff, it can be like peeing
on each other, it can be whatever, it can be like any level of like, you know, um, I guess
conservative Christian approved to debauchery, um, debauchery, right? And people rate it. So like,
one person will bring it out like they'll rate it zero, meaning it's not a turn on, it's not a turn
off. Negative 10 is like huge turn off and 10 is a, is a, um, is a turn on. And it's really
interesting. We, um, we played it with some, uh, you know, some, well, actually I can't,
I can't tell anyone what we, what the answers were, but yeah, we got some very, very interesting
answers from people you wouldn't normally expect and it's a fun game to play. But, uh, yeah.
So yeah, it's so hard to know what, yeah, I love that story. And I, it's like when I was thinking
about what advice would I go back and give myself? And it's almost impossible with the
paradigm I was raised in. It wasn't, it's not as simple as like, go enjoy sex and have fun,
because I couldn't. Like there was so much body shame and sex shame. So I, I mean, if I had to
boil down, I think it would just be like, you can trust your desires. Your desires are not leading
us, you astray, they're a part of who you are. And there's something beautiful there to be found.
And I think if I could have known, I could have trusted myself and my desires and my
wantings at such a young age, it would have completely changed my life for the better.
Yeah. Yeah, I think it's hard for me to think of going back. Like I, I don't know how I would
have told myself something without deconstructing first, but like just to get educated, I didn't
know like what a vagina looks like or even like the mechanics of actual penis and vagina sex,
because like that I didn't have sex ads. So like the first time I watched porn, I was like,
I don't like, I don't know what's going on here. Like, because I had no formal education in it.
So I think just to be like, go get the education that I wasn't getting in my very conservative
private school. That, that, that actually does go into the first topic I want to discuss, which is
sexual education in purity culture. So I want to kind of touch on a little bit of purity culture
stuff in relevance to building up a case about what is a healthy sex life, but we'll first go
over some of the sexual education and psychological impacts of purity culture and then we'll move on
to how we kind of broke, broke tips and tricks on healthy, happy sex life. So how was everyone's
sex education? I went to a public school. I, it was fine for me. Like we, it wasn't, it wasn't that
bad. I also was a computer savvy kid. So I found pornography at a very young age. Probably wouldn't
recommend that. But I definitely knew what sex, I knew a lot about sex from a very young age. But
I guess I didn't know about, I guess I didn't know, I guess the, the most of my education probably,
I would say even came from porn, I guess, like, and so that's probably not a super healthy thing,
thing as well. I don't know. At least the type of porn that I was exposed to. But what's
everyone else's experience? It was minimal. I didn't go to like a specifically Christian school,
but it was, it was a charter school that like was as close to home school as you could get
without being homeschooled, basically. So it wasn't officially a Christian school, but everyone
basically was Christian and like all the teachers were Christian. And so it was definitely influenced
by that. And there, we'd never even had like an attempt at like sex ed at my school, like we
didn't have like as much of like a health class as we had, it was literally just a health class,
like it was just about like, here's how you eat food that's good for you. And like, it was nothing
about sex like ever. I think like the only thing even in school that was remotely related was when
I was on like debate team and we had a Congress debate where we debated comprehensive sex ed at a
Catholic church or a Catholic school that was hosting the the event. So it was weird, like
arguing in favor of sex ed while having like Jesus and Mary staring at you. But that's as
close as I got to even discussing sex like at my school. Yeah, I don't remember in discussing
sex at school really either. Like I remember learning about like, like the girls and guys would
get separated. And the girls would learn all about periods and everything. But I don't remember
at school ever being taught about sex.
Yeah, I had the I had a sex ed in the same way that I had Bible history, which was just like the
Christian version of thought control. And so like no proper education, like literally the drawings
that were put up were like anatomically incorrect. So not only did I not learn the right things,
I was learning the wrong things boys and girls were separated. So like, that they could learn
about periods and we didn't know anything about that as as the boys in the class, like just yeah.
And then when we got into high school, it was all fear based. So you're going to get pregnant or
you're going to get an STD or you know, like whatever weird metaphor they used for like
used shoes or like old roses or like whatever metaphors that we didn't we didn't know enough
about sex to understand the metaphor. So yeah, it was it was like a blank slate, bad information.
And then same kind of David, what you were talking about like then like finding porn and being like,
up. Well, I guess like this is how I'm learning about it because yeah.
Wow. Yeah, I my good friend in fourth grade came to my small private Christian school,
I went to many schools growing up, but I was at a Christian school for a couple of these years.
And she brought out pages for another uncle's porn magazine. And when it's the first time
I've seen like a hard penis and like just like kind of my mind was blown. And then the only
sex education I was given was when my family went to Disney World in Florida over spring break,
when I was in eighth grade, and we were forced to go into a movie theater there with the title
called Where Do I Come From? And we go in and it starts off with this mom and dad who are being
romantic, they walk into the bedroom, turn off the light, and then it becomes a cartoon of an egg
in a sperm finding each other making a baby. And then we finished the movie. I'm like horrified as
an eighth grader, because I already know what sex is, and I'm just so embarrassed that this is
how they're telling me. And we come out of the movie theater and my blessed parents turn to us say,
any questions?
Call me to have questions. I'm just mad the rest of the day, and that was my sex education.
Could please tell me that the movie was about C-U-M come.
Yeah, right. That would be more accurate.
Where you come from, you know.
Stacey, do you remember anything about your sexual education?
My sexual education, my mom and I had a really great open relationship, which is also why we're
doing the podcast together. So anything that I wanted to talk to her about, I could ask her
about anything. So the education I got from church was obviously abstinence only and wait
until your marriage. And so I followed that and did that other than finding loopholes. But when I
did tell my mom, I really want to have sex, she was kind of the one who was like, you know what,
there's other ways you can enjoy yourself. And so she kind of gave me the permission
because she knew my husband and I were a great match and she didn't want him to,
she wanted us to end up together. So yeah, so from a young age, if I, like I remember one time
when I was young, like she got her monthly cycle and she said, I have cramps. And I said, well,
what are cramps? And she'd stop what she was doing. And she just drew like, you know, like a
uterus and said, this is what cramps are. This is what happens. This is going to happen to you.
And anytime I had a question, she would just answer it right then and there and nothing was off
limits. So she was the person I would go to first for anything. And she wanted it to be that way.
So she wanted me to have a really healthy view of sex because she didn't want me to be afraid of it
in any way. But I still had that shame of just because of growing up in youth group, right? So
it was sort of like this, this wrestling of, I shouldn't be doing this, but I also know it's
okay once I'm married and there was this back and forth. So I think overall she did give me a very,
very healthy view of sex. So that is amazing. That gives me, even today, one of my kids said,
mom, what's an all? I was like, I don't know. And she's like, what's an all? And she's like,
A-N-A-L. And I was like, Oh, and I just straight up told her, like, I, and I was like, well,
there we go. But I just like, that's what I want. It's like, well, you're sharing Stacy's like,
I don't ask me anything and like, I'll always tell you the truth. Yeah, that's kind of how
my mom was with me. Like I heard about oral sex, not like my mom explained it to me, not because
she was like, Oh, let me tell you about this one day. But it just, it naturally came up and
and she's like, well, that's, you know, that's what some people do. And I was like, Oh, okay.
So I heard about it first from my mom. Just, yeah, it wasn't in a, in a weird
circumstance from school in a scary way. So we were very open, thankfully.
Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. Yeah, I was, I was just gonna say, my parents would turn off the TV or
change the channel if like a sexy and started to come on. If there was swear words or a song was
about sex, the radio station got changed, like it was just total ignore that it happened and no
conversation about it. Yeah, wow. I have a, I have a very different experience with my family.
You know, my mom was amazing. And she was very much like, I was like, you know, is, is sex before
marriage? Okay. And she was like, well, you can do like, you know, there's oral sex and stuff. And
I was like, this is when I was like 13 or 14. And then and, and I was like, isn't that still sex?
And like, it was like a, you know, my mom was always trying to, you know, I guess pat out the
Bible a little bit for me like that, which was cool. But the thing that the thing I remember
going to youth group one time, and it was, I was a new Christian, a new born again Christian. It was
like, you know, after my experience. And it was like, I was, I was, I had my notebook out because
we were going to learn from the pastor's wife, which was doing a sermon called dating what to do.
And I was like, yes, I can't wait. And the first thing she said, you're probably there.
Babe, Amy, I'll call you Amy, because no one knows who I'm talking about when I say babe.
Could be no, we know. You're all babes. No. And and I was like, I was there with my notebook
ready to ready to listen. And the first thing she says was dating what to do. And then she just
don't. And then the whole thing was about don't date. I think I do remember that actually. Yeah,
yeah, you got a court. And then what courting is is like, to me, I was like, this is just dating
with more stuff. I was taught that too. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it's not even, it's not even like dating
was wrong. It was like, no, it's not even, yeah, it's not even like sex with marriage was wrong.
It's like dating was wrong. So it's like, no, no, you, you find someone that God's told you that
he wants you to marry or that you feel like you need to, you're going to marry. And then you start
a kind of an agreement to like go out on it. You can go out and socialize with like other people,
like with like the parents or something. And like, it was very, it was very bizarre.
I remember like having my notebook and be like, okay, like, and I didn't write anything. Yeah, so
yeah. Oh my gosh, it's so true. So like when I was in college, I didn't date all four years of
college as like my recommitment to God, like I had sex in high school, I had major guilt about it,
I had a lot of shame about it. And like this was my act of repentance is like, I'm not going to date
until God brings the one, which is just so hilarious. Like there's like such for me in my
religion, there was such little logic, right? Like how are you going to meet someone and marry
someone if you won't go on a single date, you know, just stuff like that. It was like, I was so
extreme because I thought that's what was required to be holy. Yeah. And I wanted to point out Jeremy's
comment in the side chat because it, like it's something that bugs me just about pastors in
general, like the fact that they don't, they don't know what they're talking about. And yet they're
viewed as this authority on everything. And like you, it's so dangerous looking at something like
sex, not only from the psychological standpoint, which Jeremy of course is very familiar with,
also from the medical standpoint with people like, like how David was just saying that
you were basically taught that oral was fine, but like actual penis and vagina penetration
is not. But it's like, if you, if you don't teach a kid anything about it, like there,
it's going to be so much more dangerous for them having a sexual encounter. And the fact that like
you, you're trusting a person whose expertise is literally their book, not even religion in general,
not anything like, not anything else, it's just the text of their book and their interpretation
of the text in that book. And somehow that is enough expertise to make decisions about
anything. Like, and I honestly wish that these pastors had to take responsibility for that
damage that they do to people because like it's easy to say whatever you want. And it's easy to,
to fake it, fake it till you make it when you don't have to face the consequences and own up to
the people you hurt. Like if, I know if I mess up, if someone gets hurt because I told them the
wrong thing, like number one, I'd feel terrible about it. I'd also be sued. And like, same with
the same with Jeremy, like there's a certain standard that we have to meet pastors don't have
to meet that standard. Like, and they don't have to confront the people that they hurt. And it's so
disgusting to me that they, that they're allowed to have that authority without that responsibility.
Yes, well said. I remember Nicole, you mentioned on on deep drinks that for you, your first sexual
experience was really, was really like, I guess dangerous because you having premarital sex was
a sin. But preparing for it with consent and proper consent and protection was like, was like
the difference between murder and premeditated murder. Like one you're like premeditated. So like,
can you talk a little bit about that? Like how like, like the, the act of being prepared,
knowing about sex education, knowing about like it's actually kind of viewed as a sin.
Yeah, like I feel like, you know, in this culture, it's like, they think like being sheltered is
protection, but I teach my clients education is protection. Like I didn't know how to vouch myself.
I didn't know, I didn't know what consent was. I didn't know what contraception was available.
I put myself in really, really dangerous situations where I could have had horrific things happen to
me, because I was so horny, and so badly wanted this thing I was told to stay away from. So I
would put myself in compromising situations just to get it, but unplanned, no protection with no
safety with no one to call to bail me out if something went bad. And it's all because there
was just no open communication. There was so much sin around it and shame around it. And I just think,
and I look back and I'm just like, Oh my gosh, and I did I like, I never use protection through all
my like sexual encounters, because that was considered even worse. And there was no talk
about STIs. There's and like only the fear of pregnancy. And it's like, well, if I'm having sex,
I guess I deserve the punishment of pregnancy. If that happens, like really warped thinking,
because I just wasn't educated properly. I don't know if I'm heathen queen is still here. She was
in the chat earlier. She said something amazing when she was on deep rings. She said, not honoring
the needs of your body. And I was like that, like the whole process that it just resonated with me so
well. Yeah, we drink when we're thirsty, we eat when we're hungry, we rest we tired, like there's
a way to channel our sexual desires in a really healthy and safe way. But not if we're not talking
about it in an educational, safe, proper way. Like when we just we deny that huge part of ourselves,
it's going to come out in wonky ways. And a lot of people are going to get harmed and hurt in
the process. And it's so unnecessary. Diogenes, a philosopher from fourth century BC, was used
to masturbate in public. He lived with dogs inside a barrel. And he used to, he had a bowl and he
threw it away and just ate with his hand. And he had nothing and used to masturbate in public.
And people used to complain. And he used to say, if only I could rub my belly to get rid of hunger.
And I was like, hey, like, he said some really wise stuff, but he was, he was a little bit crazy.
So, so, so just moving on to the psychological impacts, like that must have been really hard.
Like, you know, having, for me, I definitely know it was hard having this like weight over your
shoulders and something that's meant to be very enjoyable. I remember the first time I kind of
did stuff, did stuff with my girlfriend when I was in high school. I felt really guilty,
like the next, the next day I felt different. I felt like I felt funny, like I just didn't feel
good. And none of my sec, like all my sector friends were like, yeah, it was like, like,
great time. Like, you know, it was just, and it was really weird to have that, that, that,
see that dichotomy of, of like experiences. How about it? Does anyone else have any,
anything to bring up around the psychological impacts of purity culture?
I would, I'm going to piggyback off of what Nicole said, like, just not taking like,
any precautions. Like I dated another conservative Christian when I was in college and like,
just breaking up, fighting about like, fooling around, and then like, promising we wouldn't do
it again, and then like, spending more time together. And like, we dated for a long time,
and we're just miserable. Like, I have no idea what our relationship could have been like,
if it wasn't for us both growing up in purity culture, because like, that was our number one
fight was just like, nope, we're not going to do it. And then we didn't talk about anything. There
was no like, talk about consent or any of that stuff. Like, but similar to her, like that idea
of like, if you went and bought condoms, like that was somehow worse, because that meant you were
like planning for it. So it was just like, it's, it's truly like a mind fuck to grow up in this
purity culture, because it's teaching you to like, ignore your bodily functions, and you're trying to
put like, God and the church before your body, and then trying to throw a partner in there,
like is nearly impossible when you have no education around how to how to do those things in
a healthy way. Yeah. Yeah. I'm just trying to think of something. I mean, I feel like I touched
on it. And on our last panel, the psychological effects, just mine, mine definitely lasted post
marriage. So yeah, just just the guilt after just trying to wrap my head up around that,
okay, now it's okay. So that's where it, it felt more, I felt the effects of it more,
because one day it's like, okay, you can't do this. And then like 12 hours later, we say this
little vow, and it's like, okay, now you can. So, and then just for the, you know, the first few
months of just being married, I felt guilty. So that's where I felt the psychological effects of
it, for sure. So yeah, for me, it comes from being queer, because like we, as we did last time, the
kind of tears of what is most sinful, like you'd have people that would have sex before marriage,
and it was like, okay, yeah, we did that, I feel bad, I'm going to apologize, and then everybody
moves on, as long as like, if they got pregnant, if they kept the baby, everything's all good,
like you've repented, and it's fine. But like, if you had any thoughts of being queer,
like you hid that shit, because like, I remember, like sermons constantly, every year there was that
like annual, don't have sex sermon. And of course, they throw something in there about, hey, don't be
gay. And if you are gay, you should confess that to us, and we'll essentially like pray the gay away.
And you're not going to tell somebody that, because you're like, if I if I out myself as being gay,
and now I'm broken, because I even had thoughts that I could maybe be gay, it's terrifying. And I
remember when I first like came out to myself, like, that's the hardest part is, is figuring out who
you are in that initial coming out to yourself, because you're terrified. And it was even worse
when I came out as trans myself, because the whole time it was, I can't I can't be that like no,
because people assault those people, people disown those people, like that can't that can't
possibly be me. And then the more you think about it, like, no, this is my experience, like this is
the way that I'm going to best live my life. But like, I can't I can't say that, because then
everyone will know that I'm broken, and we'll know that I'm not a good person anymore. And like,
my parents got me got me books about how they people stopped being gay, because they found Jesus.
And like, it's very damaging, like the thought that and I still have those thoughts, like,
now that I'm openly trans, like, what if I could just stop? Like, everything would be so much easier
if I could just stop being queer altogether. I can't do that, I would be miserable. But
like, it's that stays with you, the fact that like, who you are is is wrong. And you cannot
honestly be you, and be a good person. And that's just like, that that's what kills me. And I, I
feel for all the all the queer kids in church right now, especially like, I came out later on.
So I can't even imagine somebody that like, came out in like, elementary school, middle school.
Yeah. Yeah. And I think that's, that's intentional. I mean, I grew up evangelical, right, and
fundamentalist. So we were the crazy Christians, like the craziest of the crazy. Me too. But like,
it was, it was well established, you'd get kicked out. So like, I had a friend who was gay, and he
didn't come out until college, like, two or three years into college. But like, I thought he was
one of my best friends, I thought he was depressed, and I had a drinking problem. And I had no idea
he was gay, because he was so scared to even tell me one of his close friends, he knew he'd be kicked
out of school. And like, looking back on it, I'm one of the few people who he grew up with who
stayed friends with him. Like, Christians don't stay friends with people who aren't Christians
predominantly. And so it's like, the disowning is part of the control of that fear of losing your
friends, your family, your community, like, in high school, you would have been kicked out of
high school. So it's definitely like an abuse of power for sure. Yeah. Yeah. So I can't even,
I can't even imagine what it's like to, to go through that. Like, I, you know, as I would say,
I'm mostly straight cis, you know, so it's like, I don't even, I guess that's why I'm, I guess
what I try and make sure everything we do is like such a big ally for the like those groups,
because like, it is like, you see what's going on in like Florida and like stuff that's happening
around America right now and around the world is just crazy, I think. And it all starts, it starts
with this, it starts with like evangelical, I think a lot of it starts with evangelical
posturings about what normal sex, sexuality should be.
I have a, I don't know if this has any relationship to this, but I was just thinking like,
right before I like officially de-converted, I have, so one of my sons,
he, he went through a medical thing a few years ago and he was on like a medication and
it was a, what's the one where it makes you really puffy? Dr. Ben, you'd probably know it was a,
I can't think of it right now, but it makes you very puffy. They call it moon face and,
and he was on it for quite some time. And it brought out some tendencies like, and I,
I was really. Yeah, it's probably a steroid. Steroid. It was a steroid. Yeah. And I was just,
he just acted a lot more feminine. And I, this is when I was at a Calvinist church and I thought,
okay, there's a, there's a chance that maybe when he's older, he could like come out as gay and
it, it freaked me out because I was in this very strict religion where, and also this church
where every week from the pulpit, they were preaching like, you're going to go to hell,
right? And I remember going down to my husband and I was prepping his own, someone said in the
chat, yes, thank you. Yeah, that's, and it's one drug in that whole class. Yeah, okay, thank you.
Yeah. He was on it for, for about six months. And I don't know if it was just the drug that
made his 10, I don't know, he just looked very different and, and everything, but
so I went down to my husband and because it was just as an evangelical Christian, I'm sure you
can all understand it just freaked me out. And I said to my husband, do you think there's a chance
when my son, our son is older, like he could come out and, and my husband, I thought he would say,
Oh no, there's no way. And I thought he would put my mind at ease. And he said, Oh yeah,
yeah, I think there's a chance. And I, I almost fainted, like, because I just thought, Oh my
goodness, I'm going to have to, I, because at that time I thought that he, he's going to go to hell.
That's how strongly I believed it. Right. And I, and he goes, but don't worry. Like,
you don't need to be concerned about that at all, because he can still have kids. Like,
we can still have grandchildren. And I was like, I'm not worried about that. I'm worried that
he's going to go to hell. And he's like, What are you talking about? And I was just like,
What are you like, aren't you concerned at all about, about the fact that he could go to hell?
And he's like, No, that doesn't even exist. But I, and then my whole like, my brain was racing
because I thought, Okay, now I'm going to live the rest of my life. Of course, I'm going to love him.
And I'm not going to, you know, cast him out. But I was thinking now for the rest of my life,
I'm going to have to go to therapy, just trying to get my header on the fact that when my son dies,
I'm not going to be with him. It was just this torment. And I had, so I thought I'm going to
have to live tormented. And so I don't even know why I'm sharing this. It's just something that
I've never shared it because I don't know it. Yeah, it kind of led to my deconversion eventually
to because I was like, I can't live and because I adore, I don't care if he does, if he doesn't,
whatever. But even as a parent thinking anyways, I'm just rambling. It's important. It's important
because like this, this hurts everybody involved. Like it hurts the people who are queer. It hurts
the people that love them. It hurts everybody. Like nobody except for the, the church itself and
the patriarchy, like nobody else is benefiting from, from this. No. Yeah. And it was just, I'll never
forget that night. And my husband, I later on, we talked about that since because now I'm just like,
fuck all of that. I was like, that would have like ruined my life, right? Thinking that because I
just thought I'm going to literally spend the rest of my life in therapy. I will love him no
matter what. And my husband was like, there is no way I would have let you, no, I wouldn't have. But
he's like, I would have put my foot down and been like, we're getting the hell out of this because
right. And I said, so thank you. Thank you. Cause yeah, it was just, it was a scary thought at that
time. Now I'm just like, I'm so glad that yeah. It is, no, that's, I'm really glad you shared that
because that's, that's, that's typical of a purity culture. That's typical of like the, the
unspoken, because it's very easy. It's very, it's very easy for us to be like, oh, you know,
I felt guilty when I think it's someone or something like that, right? But that's, that's,
that, I know that can be harsh and that can be bad. But like the real, the big, the big consequences
that I felt everywhere that I don't really talked about things like that, where you're, you're nervous
or you're, you're worried about your children or maybe you're, or maybe you are someone is like,
like Ben, like, oh, I'm queer. Like I'm broken. Like that's the, the, the ramifications of purity
culture and what, what a kind of, it's, it's poison for the mind is, is how I say it. It's,
it's, it's horrible. I actually know someone who, as parents, they actually got the people
around them to start treating their son differently because they were scared that what the sisters
were doing was going to make, like turn them gay eventually. So the sisters weren't allowed to
like dress up with their brother anymore. They weren't allowed to paint nails or any of that stuff.
So it affected the siblings as well, which is, yeah.
And that's what happens when you have sex, you get screened.
Practice safe sex. That's a good, a good practice.
Sex, unless you want kids. So Atlas seems like Atlas wants these nails painted,
which we can, we can make out the screen.
Well, and like this, the thing about that story too, that I think like is very emotional and
Stacy, like that's awesome that you shared, but also how one medication that's not for that
can change like your outward gender, gender expression to the point that somebody worries
about that. And like it, I still have these conversations with people who I grew up with
or who went to church with me or like some people in my family still around like
sexuality. And it's like, well, when did like, there isn't this right or wrong,
there isn't a black and white thing, like it's a spectrum and this idea that like you can choose to
be straight or gay, or you can choose to be male or feel like, no, that's not how it works.
Like it's these tiny cellular things that are changed through other small ways. Like when I'm
working with clients who are trans and they start taking hormones, like their voice changes or that,
you know, it's, it's at two weeks, this happens. And at three months, this happens. And at six
months, this happens. And like, it's not this thing that's set in stone. And it's not this thing
that is like a, it's not a personality trait. It's not like this thing that is innate to you.
It's just cellular check boxes that got checked one way or another.
It's almost as if norms are made up.
That's all they are. They're just norms. They're just like a,
like what the society, what general society, well, even not even
what they present to the rest of the world, whatever that is, that's what a norm is, I guess,
you know, but it's like, no one really knows like what people thinking inside.
Yeah. My sexuality changed with testosterone. And I think maybe I, I share it all over the place.
I might have mentioned it during the last stream, but I, before testosterone, I was like
exclusively attracted to, to women and feminine presenting people. And then after testosterone,
I started being attracted to men. And it was very weird. And I know a lot of trans guys that
experience similar things. And it's still like, I still have different attraction to like either
side. Like I have a very like visceral attraction to feminine people. Whereas like with masculinity,
I have to like really get to know them in order to be like attracted to them. So like it takes
a longer for them. But yeah, it might, my whole sexuality changed after testosterone.
That is interesting. You also mentioned, and I'll, I'll tap dance around this because I don't
know how much alcohol you've had, but when we were on deep drinks, you talked about how
the testosterone increased your passion. Oh yeah. Oh, it changes. It changes your
orgasm for sure. Yes, you said it. Yes. And Katie Montgomery and I on, on Takas, we actually did
talk about this from, from both sides of it. So in my experience, like with estrogen and
progesterone only, so like having a purely female experience, it, it took a lot longer to like ramp
up. And then once you kind of hit the climax, it like persists for a little while longer.
Like your endurance is, is a lot more. But the intensity is less throughout. Whereas like after
testosterone, it's like, it's, it's very fast. Like it ramps up very quickly. And then once you,
once you climax, it's, it doesn't last very long. So it's very powerful, but it's very short-lived.
And so that's my experience. And Katie mentioned that her experience was the opposite, of course,
going from testosterone to estrogen. And it's very fascinating, like how your whole body,
just just with hormone activity, your, your body changes what, what it does and how you experience
sexual pleasure. It's fascinating.
I was just going to say, we should, Amy and I should get some tea, have some, do it for a
little while, get, have some explosive orgasms together. I mean, like Ben and I are a little
different because we work with, Ben works with the medical side, I work with the psychological side,
but like, I work with trans clients and like, I've learned so much about it because like coming
from a background, but I think it's, it's still such a small percentage of the population that a
lot of people don't have these conversations or they don't know someone who's trans identifying.
And so it's, they're missing out on like, yeah, this is how little it takes to change some of this
stuff. And I think like growing up in purity culture, like being gay or straight, we're such big
deals that it's, it's, we talked about it before, we're going to keep hitting this, this point tonight,
but like it's so harmful across the board to have these like unhealthy norms.
So I'm laughing at secular rarity right now. I don't know, I don't know the answer to that
question. I have to look it up. I'm going to say maybe without knowing.
Pardon?
That's a good experiment. Yeah.
I, possibly?
Speaking of vegetarian?
There's, so, so, so not to, not to cramp on the, on the sex. Let's get, let's just, let's talk
about sex, but first I just want to kind of mention, like for me with the impact on purity
culture for me was, was very much so like it came right into the marriage. But for years,
like your self-stacy, but mine lasted for years, like it was, we would have, I would have anxiety
before we had sex, or after we had sex, about the sex, about nine out of 10 times. So I just
remember there'd be like one time out of 10, I'd be like, oh, like, everything is good. Like
afterwards I'm feeling fine. Like it's like, it's all good. But like, before that, I would,
it was like, I, it's like, there's a few things probably going on in my head psychologically
and Jeremy, you can confirm or deny it. No, I'm kidding. But essentially, like, it was like,
I would be anxious about the expectations. I'll be anxious about what was or wasn't going to
happen. I'll be anxious about whether something was okay or not okay. Like, I think the, the,
I think it's very late for me because I definitely had a very love, you know, a strong passion for
adult cinema. And so for me, and I used to always hide that away because of purity culture, right?
And it was always the thing that I was struggling with. So sex and pornography was always,
it was, it was this, pornography was this like thing that I was fighting against all the time.
And then when I would look at pornography or masturbate, or even think of a woman would
lost or something, that became like a very self focused, very, like I go into my own little world
and it's like, I'm in this little safe space and I know that I'm going to have to leave it and then
repent and like, but I've just stuffed up this time. So like, while I'm here, I need to like,
I need to like, I've got all these like mental gymnastics I'm doing. And then when I start,
Amy and I first started having sex, it was like, now I'm inviting someone else into that world.
Well, actually at the start, it was like, there was like that world. And then there was like
our sex life. And so it was actually quite separate. And we'll get into this later. But like,
a part of the healing process for me was bringing those two together. Like, I'm not talking about
watching porn every time we have sex or something together. Not that there's anything wrong about,
but I'm talking about like, psychologically destigmatizing that, that space that I had in my
head. And, and letting lust kind of pour into my, like, my, my, my psychologist, my first
psychology is like an 80 year old man. And he said, not many people make love, most people
fuck. But it was great. But it was like, but it's like, yeah, it's like, it's like, it's like
having a sex life that incorporated in our life, both making love and fucking. And that was like,
and to me, they were a bit, they were a bit different. And now I feel like Amy and I, well,
I speak for myself. I mean, it's because of, but it feels like those two have meshed together a
little bit. And it's like now more, it's more natural and a few, it's more, it's more connected
for me anyway. It's like, it's, it's not, it's not this shame and guilt. It's not like this,
the kinky night and the, and the love making night. It's just like, they're kind of, I don't know,
it's just, it feels a lot healthier. It feels a lot less disjointed. So for me, yeah, the impacts
of purity culture came into my marriage for a long time. It was very difficult.
I could, I could never figure out how to make having sex in a kinky way be like praising Jesus
while I was still a Christian. I was like, I don't know, I don't feel great that he's watching this
right now. I was full on time. You should be able to stop in the middle of sex and praise Jesus.
Okay, that's just so weird. Like, where does this stuff come from? It's horrible.
Jesus is creepy. Like, you've got to do that. Like, you can, you can, I bet he could find somebody
that would let him watch, but like, you got to get consent first, dude. Like, you can't, you can't
just watch everybody all the time. So now that, now that everyone is kind of like,
probably different, different levels, the different levels of, you know, of how much
people have overcome purity culture, like, it still affects my life a little bit in different
areas. But, but how is, how did everyone start to deconstruct that? And how has everyone started to,
well, first of all, is everyone happy with their sex life? Is everyone like stoked with like, what
areas are you stoked with? What areas do you hope to work on? Like, tell us about it. What's your
favorite position? Go for it. I'm single. And I know how to use myself. And I have a great time
with myself. I'm not unhappy. Okay. So seeing as you said that, that is probably the one area
of purity culture I've not overcome. Oh, really? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That I've never, and I, so like,
preparing for the stream in April, and then for this one again, I said to my husband, I was like,
that's like the one thing. I just, I wish that I got to experience. And he's like, I don't care,
you can go and do that whenever you want. But I just still feel like, just, yeah, I, no, I can't,
or I haven't, I don't know. Yeah, that part was taken from me. And I'm still like, I feel like
I'm still a very conservative person when it comes to sex. I don't have no problem talking about,
about stuff on here. But like, just to give you an example, again, like, I'm not going to
overshare too, too much. But for an example, like, we've twice, we've been like, let's, let's
do something risque. Okay, our kids are awake. Let's, let's sneak off and have sex. That's
risky for us. Okay. How long? Right. Like, they were out on the trampoline. So we were like,
okay, let's go do that. And that was super fun. And we were so proud of ourselves.
And then another time. And that was so, that was fun. And then another time they were watching
a movie. But I, my brain, it's like, it's all in my brain, right? And so
I didn't get to climax, okay. Thanks, Tom. But I was like, it got, it got close. And so,
but we had to finish because I was like, our three year olds going to come banging on the door.
And that's why I couldn't get to that point, right? But I, so it was done. And then
he, he went to go like, see the kids and make sure that they were all taken care of because,
and so I was like, Oh, it was so close. So I, I completed the job. Okay.
But here's the thing. I felt guilty because I was like, oh, should I go tell them?
So I went out in the kitchen. I was like, okay, just so you know, like, I just,
and he's like, okay. But I felt really guilty. And I felt like I had to go and confess that to
him and just be like, just so you know, I, I did that. And he's like, that's fine. Like, I don't
care. So that's where I still have a hang up when it comes to that. So that's my story.
Thanks for sharing that. No problem. No problem. So that's, that's my hang up. Someone else go.
My hang up. I love this. So I, I masturbate all the time. Like, it's like my favorite hobby.
But the time I get sheepish about it is when my partner's in bed next to me. And it's like,
I like, because I, I can get off multiple times, even after a ravishing session of sacks. I'm like,
I can just keep going. And it's like, my partner needs to pass out and go to sleep. And I'm like,
don't mind if the bed wrinkles, okay. Like, and I like try to do it as still as hot to this day.
I still can't fully freely do it. So I'm like, I just don't want to wake up my partner. I don't
want them to see me. I don't want them to look like even like, we'll, we'll like, pleasure ourselves
in front of each other. Like, that's the, that's the mood. But when like, they're trying to fall
asleep and I'm trying to still get off that's where I get like a little sheepish and embarrassed.
I'm going to be quiet and as quick as possible. So working on that.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, for me, it's funny because like,
I think like most, most people, uh, learn about their own, their own bodies from a pretty early
age, like you discover that pretty early on. And so I, it was funny because with the whole
disconnect of what they teach you in purity culture, like, cause they don't teach you anything.
So it was like, I had no idea that like, apparently what I was doing was sinful. Uh,
and then finally eventually like words are put to it. I was like, oh, that's what that is. Okay.
Well, I'm not going to stop doing it, but it was like, it's like, it's funny because it kind of
backfires when like, they don't teach you the things, but then they just expect you to know
like what's, what's good and what isn't like, well, fuck off. Like you're not going to communicate
about what you're talking about. And then you're just going to expect people to follow. Like, no,
that's ridiculous. When, when, when we, when we first got, uh, when Amy and I first got married,
it was, there was a couple of nights where like, I, it'd be like, I'll be like, I'd say it up to
like one in the morning. I didn't want to like come and wake Amy up. So, but I was like, I'm,
I'm not going to be able to get to sleep. Like I'm just, I'm too horny right now. And then I
remember I'm going to the other room and Amy woke up. And so Amy, do you remember this baby?
You woke up and you heard me while I was like, I don't know why I was loud. Like, but like,
do you hear me come in like, uh, and go to the other room? And then the, and, um, Amy was like,
I, I was just like, why didn't you come wake me? I was like, well, I didn't just like, did you
not want to do it? I'm like, no, no, no, I just like, I just didn't want to wake you. Like that was
like, it's like, this has been a, this is what we first got married on. Like this is like a normal
part of my life. I just, I just didn't want to like come in and interrupt your sleep. Like, um,
but, uh, yeah, I got, I got just going back to what Nicole was saying. I got really good at being
really silent. And so I was going to see if you were going to bring it up. Like I can do it next,
next to Dave in the bed while he's watching a YouTube video or something. And he doesn't even
know. Oh, wow. I couldn't believe it. I was like, I was like, wait, I remember how I found out one
time I was like, wait, when did you, I was like, when did you last, and then you're like last night?
I was like, when? And I was like, we're in a bed of things. And you're like, when you're watching
stuff on your laptop, I was like, why didn't you, what? I was asleep. You were asleep when I went
and did it. Why were you, this is early in their marriage. Well, it's like, why didn't you wait?
It's like, well, I didn't think you're interested. I was like, what? I probably wouldn't have
asked you to do it by yourself. Yeah, yeah, it is. Oh, wow. So yeah, there's, masturbation is fun.
That's the headline. That's the takeaway. But that, that's actually like quite hard for a lot
of people. Like I do know, you know, Emily couldn't be here for this, this stream, but you know, she,
she mentioned, you know, that like, when she came on Deep Drinks, that it was, you know,
that was actually hard for her. She didn't understand, she didn't realize that like,
in relationships, like your, your, your partner, like some, some people, people can be in a
relationship and be okay with their partner, you know, masturbating, watching porn, even
non monogamous relationships. I know, and Nicole, you've mentioned that you're not in a,
you're in a non monogamous relationship. So like this, there's various, various levels of,
of like what people are okay with in a relationship. And that was hard for her to kind of realize. She
thought that once you got into a relationship, it wasn't necessarily, I don't want to speak on a
behalf, but it wasn't, you could, you know, there's things like masturbation and things like that,
that were, were normal in like everyday non Christian circles, I guess. Yeah.
It's funny, like speaking of how we're all at different levels and different hangups. So my
besides the, trying to be very quiet, but next to someone, my next like purity culture hangup
was like wanting to have sex with a woman, right? Cause I realized my queerness later in life. And
then I got divorced from my, my husband and tried for two years to find a woman to have sex with
and couldn't. And then I started dating someone and I was, we were exploring non monogamy.
And like my, even that I, I craved it made me feel like it was like a last, the last residue
of like homophobia in my body, like the indoctrination of like, this is wrong. This is
bad. I'm like, it can't be. It's like, how could this be wrong? And then after I started having
sex with women, I'm just like, it's the most beautiful, pure, life-giving, holy thing. Like
now that I've done it, and I've done it multiple times, it's like one of my favorite, like hobbies
now I'm like, which of all this like bring it on. I just this energy of like it's reclaimed that for
me having to do it. But until I did it, I had a lot of like fear around in my, in my crossing
a line that I will regret. Do you, do you remember when you first slept with a woman,
were you, did you find that there was any guilt attached or were you like, this is awesome?
Or do you like, was it, was it a process? No, so it was really interesting. It's the first
time I had sex with a woman happened to be with two women and it was filmed for a documentary.
Like that wasn't how I planned it. I was planning like trying to find a woman to like
I try to ease in like two years and I couldn't get anyone that like, I'm like, I think I'm cute.
I think I might catch, but I can't get anyone to like, I can hook up with like as a woman and
it's also part of my energy. I was like nervous, you know, like a middle schooler like,
like how do I act around women except only dated men. And then I went to a woman's house for a
documentary because like, oh, can you mentor her? She's trying to like make it in the adult
industry. And I'm like, of course, like, oh my God, I love mentoring and I love adult work,
just like a dream come true. And they're filming, they're like, okay, have sex. And I was like,
wait, wait, wait, not meant like this is what they meant by mentoring. And then they brought in a
porn star and there's three of us. And I'm like, Nicole, you've been wanting this, like, you're
doing this. And I was like, all in, I'm like, we're getting all the right angles, we're going to
get all the right like, we're going to miss this count. But it was not like, it wasn't like intimate,
you know what I mean? It wasn't like, it was, but it was special to me. But I walked away like,
that was amazing. That was fascinating. And that was not the experience I was expecting.
Now I realize there's all kinds of experiences of sex when it comes with a woman. Right? I just
had never had sex with a woman. So I hadn't even registered there's different kinds. So that was
more like, is more for work. It was surface is very easy. It's like camera on camera off.
We all laughed and hung out and had dinner afterwards. It was so natural. And like, oh my
god, I'm only going to film content with women who do this full time for work, because it's
so easy. There's no drama. There's no emotions. But I've not had any guilt. It's actually been
really freeing it freed me from any pre guilt. I was feeling before I did it.
Yeah. And I guess that like, I guess this kind of one of the topics we wrote down to talk about
was navigating sexuality within pure post purity culture. Like, so for you, you didn't have any
guilt. Has anyone else had experiences in navigating that? I'm out of pure to culture now.
I'm about deconstruct my faith maybe. Not that it's required. But you've kind of left that
purity culture. Like, how do you how does what advice would you give yourself for? How did you
best navigate your sexuality for everyone on the panel?
Don't everyone go at once. I mean, I talked a little bit about mine in the last stream,
because mine I didn't really fully understand my sexuality until I learned that a lot of it was
gender dysphoria. And once I figured out that I don't have the organs I want for the things that
I want to do, like, Oh, it makes sense. It makes sense, like who I am and what I want to do. So
really, I mean, for me, coming out as trans really awoke my my sexuality.
I don't think I ever question my sexuality. I don't know that. Yeah, I never.
What we're gonna say? I was gonna say, like, I'm the same. I would say I'm I was I say mostly
straight. I think like, I think there's been times in my life when I'm like, Oh, that that's
a good looking dude. But I wish I was like, bye, because you just get like the piece of the
you know, you know, you know, you know, exactly. Yeah. But Nicole, you mentioned in the in the
discussion that you don't use the word virginity anymore. Can you talk a little bit about that?
Of course. So when when people talk about losing your virginity, I just think it's
interesting. It's the only experience we have that sexually that we use that phrase for,
we don't talk about losing our virginity when it comes to having our first alcohol,
or losing our virginity when we eat our first food, or lose our virginity when we first
go for a drive or lose our virginity when we take our first shower, like, there's no it's
like, it's an experience, I had my first cake, I had my first shower, I had my first experience,
but it's never in the terms of loss, only with sexuality. And so that's where I'm like,
I refuse to use that phrase because there is no taking away of like, it's just an experience,
just like anything else, it could be good food, it could be bad food, it could be the most mind
blowing food, it could be the worst food, but it's like, it's an experience, it's not taken away.
And I feel like even using that language, and even though I'm like, non, I'm not religious anymore,
I'd still in my non religious circles, people will still say, when did you like lose your
virginity? And I'm like, that doesn't even register anymore. It's like, when did you have sex?
When did you first try alcohol? When did you first try this? Like, that's the phrase it should be in
because we're not losing anything. That's a good way of putting it. I like that. I like that as
well. I really like your like, I'm, I'm kind of watching tentatively from a distance, your philosophy
around sex, because I really like it, but I'm waiting for the whole to, the whole to form,
which is, I do push, I do that with all philosophies, but I'm looking at, I'm like,
that's really interesting. The way you look at it is very, seems very healthy. It's just like,
you know, it's very healthy, and I like it.
It's been healing for me, you know, everyone has their own opinion, but it's like, this is what
I've had it to, to like reclaim my wholeness that taught everything I did was taking from me.
And even like the thought of like having sex with multiple people or being polyamorous and
non-monogamous, same idea of like your, the old purity culture even leaks into there in non-religious,
non-monogamous spaces, that if you have sex relationships with multiple people, you're
diluting yourself, you're spreading yourself too thin. And the best analogy I heard was from one of
my friends who's poly, and he's like, he views that whenever he has sex with other people,
like the 12 baskets, you take the lobes and fish, the little bit that you have, and you get to
multiply it. And you each encounter, you walk away with more, more connection, more pleasure,
more love, more orgasms, more experience, even if it's not good, you're walking with more wisdom
and clarity about what you want, what you don't want, what who you're into, who you're not.
And that's happened to me every time I've had sex with a different person. I walk away just like
more aware of what I want, more connected to that person, more pleasure unlocked, like
so much good comes from it. It's the exact opposite of what I was taught.
It's very interesting when we even, you know, mentioning the losing your virginity
is such a funny point because like, babe, I'm Jeremy, I'm talking about, no, I'm Amy.
You know, we didn't, we didn't have sex until we were married. We don't have sexual intercourse,
right? But we did other stuff, which I would consider sex because like, like, like, I won't go
into explicit details about what we did, but like, we were doing stuff that some, I'll say
there's some porn stars don't do. It's like on their notice. So like, I, like, so, so, like,
the levels of like mental gymnastics, I don't know, like what we were doing at the time,
but like, for some reason, we still thought like, oh, yeah, we're like, we haven't had sex yet.
Here we go. I think because it's, I think because it's very much taught.
I know. Like, you get, you get taught about like, keeping your, and no, you don't like this word,
but like, virginity for, for when you get married and stuff. But they never really talk about all
the other stuff that you can do. And it's kind of like a loophole. Oh, totally. So I don't know,
it didn't feel like. We didn't do soaking. I will say that.
Yeah, I don't know. So I, I don't know. I viewed it kind of differently, which is odd.
Go, go, go. Oh, I was just going to say, I felt the same way, Amy, because it was last summer,
my husband, well, we were on a family camping trip and I kind of had this realization that,
so again, I'm going to use the word virginity in virgin, because that's the only word I have.
And that's the language we're used to just for this context. But I realized, oh, oh, I think,
I don't think I was a virgin when we got married, because I mean, other than just the actual act of
penis and vagina, it all felt the same. In the end, like, you know, there was nothing different.
We had a ton of fun. So yeah, he's like, yeah, I didn't really want to tell you that it's not
really that much different because I didn't want to spoil the fun. He's like, it was great. I wasn't
complaining. So I was like, oh my gosh, yeah, no, I was pretty experienced by the time we got married,
other than just that one little penis and vagina. Yeah, yeah. That was it. Other than that, like,
we were having a great time. But it feels no different, right? Like it feels like,
like, like emotionally or spiritually or whatever, like the gap between like oral sex or
hand sex or like, I don't know, what other things, like even even like dry humping, you know, like
even like something like that, like the gap between that and sex is like emotionally or whatever.
It just, it feels the same. It's like, it's not like, it's not like this is huge bridge that you
cross. Like now a penis has gone into a vagina or an orifice. Now it's like, that's it. Like,
yeah. Well, and like from a like theological perspective, this virginity being a big deal
goes back to like women as property. Like, that's what it's from. Because if you could verify that
someone was a virgin, they were worth more. And like, so the idea that that's still a thing and
still a big deal in our culture, like virginity is like this precious thing,
like that just goes back to owning other people. And so that's a pretty shitty stance to be trying
to defend. It's always what, you know, I'm not to rag on Islam or anything at the moment, but
you know, the certain sex of Islam, I believe you get virgins, if you die as a martyr in Islam,
a virgin, why would you want virgins? Wouldn't you want like 16 or what is it 40 porn stars,
like experienced people, people know what they're doing? Like, why do you want 40 virgins?
Or I've got the number, what it is, but it's like, you know, I don't know. It just seems strange to
me. Yeah, I'll take the porn stars. Give me those. I know what they're doing. I'm down.
Well, I'm like Islam, Islam, Judaism and Christianity are all Abrahamic and they're all
like highly patriarchal from coming from like a nomadic culture setup. So it's just one of those
like weird things. I talked about this as an example that we could use like the hymen and like
losing your virginity, like that's a bad understanding of biology, like breaking the hymen
has nothing to do with being a virgin or not, like different females hymens are shaped differently.
And so like it has nothing to do with whether you're a virgin or not. Oh, good, Ben's back
because I heard hymen. He has more medical background than I do.
But like that, the high, there are different ways the hymen can be shaped and that's where it can,
it doesn't break, it gets ripped and like there's other reasons that blood can happen the first
time you're having sex. So like it isn't this like the hymen doesn't exist to protect or like
declare virginity or not. Like that's just a bad understanding of biology. And actually it needs
it needs to break like it has to break because if it doesn't, you get like when you menstruate,
you get blood buildup and you can get sepsis and you can get like actual medical complications. So
you need the hymen to break. So the fact that they're taking this benign and not even just benign,
like this necessary essential phenomenon and and shaming people for that. Wait, it needs to break.
This is obviously. Yeah, so not a lot of people. It needs to break before that. Yeah. And normally
just everyday activity is enough to is enough like biting a biker. Yeah. But the reason why
some people might still have like even like if it's intact, like not everyone's is like completely
intact. Like it might be most of the way intact or whatever, but you still have some way of getting
blood out. So like everybody has to break their hymen before they menstruate or or you have to go
in and break it for them because it's like it is it is dangerous. Like this is something we
cover in med school. Like this is a medical emergency that you have to treat. So
yeah, yeah. So to Google now, David, like you have to Google hymens because like you'll see
the spectrum of hymens like where they're like completely intact all the way down to like
they're not. And it's just like stuff we never learned in our period. I probably can't show
it on stream. Can I find medical textbooks? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'll I'll I'll
err on the side of err on the side of caution and not show it. But that's that's interesting.
I didn't know that. I honestly didn't know that. So why can someone explain to me why is it such a
why is it so associated with virginity then? Because men don't understand
like women's biology. Like that's it. Like they don't care to educate themselves. And the way that
it's taught like is that the male's perspective is the only one that matters. And if you don't
understand how that anatomy works, of course, you're going to have misconceptions about and
especially if you believe that that anatomy is there for your pleasure, you're not going to be
educated in the actual purpose of those structures and the consequences of if if it becomes a problem.
So it's yeah, it's it's all problematic with how we teach these things. And I can go into like as
we get further into like sex ed and things like there's so many things that are taught or things
that are not taught that are so problematic that you see consequences of and people like dying or
having severe medical complications because they weren't taught something earlier on. And it's really
heartbreaking. Yeah. Let's let's dive into that. But first I want to quickly shout out everyone's
everyone's stuff. So I've got a got a list here in front of me. So Nicole, let's let's start with you.
We got your only fans, which I will say, let me just quickly take this off and just mention
something. I will say I have many people reach out and ask me if I've got your nudes. And I said,
no, I said, go check go, go subscribe to any fans you cheap bastard. I had a friend and he
and he said, I cracked and he's become a dear supporter of yours. So you have your
your only fans here, which people will get, you know, what they, you know, they can see your
fun stuff. Can you give us a little bit of a talk about this and your website if you can
give us a little bit? Yeah, so I love my only fans. I get a lot of people who join just out of
curiosity. I have people I'm always so honored when I'm like someone's first, speaking of being a
first. Like I get to be their first experience because they've never subscribed before. And
there can be a lot of like fear or doubt like if you get scammed or what if it's a ripoff doesn't
mean I'm gross or like a perv. And so it's like, it's none of that. Like I think it's a really sacred
space, very holy in all the terms are on the definitions of that. And so just come and check
it out. I post every single day. I'm in the DMs every day. It's very hot and sexy, obviously
for adults only. But every month I do a sex ed livestream on things like anal or deep
throating or threesome, things like we don't talk about, but we all have like curiosities about.
I do big monthly livestream where I perform and tell stories and connect and strip and like
it's a very integrated whole fully embodied space. And if you want to check it out, please do. It's
amazing. Well, if you're doing talks on deep throating, anal babe, we should join. Sorry,
that was. We should get this outfit, babe, or media outfit. It's very, it's very cool. And you
also have a website. Nicole. Yep, I have a website, Nicole Mitchell.com that shows like
everything. It has links to my Facebook, my Instagram, Twitter, YouTube, life coaching
information. I work one on one with clients. I teach digital courses. This is where my more
coach teacher side gets to come out. Awesome. It's cool stuff. And I think I have that necklace.
No, is it Stella and Dot? It's from Trades of Hope. But I don't think it became like, you know,
a trend or other people started making it. I love it. I like it. You posted on Twitter and I said,
oh, it's a new tattoo. And you said, no, it's an old tattoo, but I need to get more tattoos.
I don't know if you saw my reply. I was like, you get a deep drinks tattoo, I'll get an Nicole
Mitchell tattoo. The ball's in your court. Also, if people ask if you have my nudes,
be like, yes, they're $500 and like, we'll split it or something. Like just Malcolm, David. Awesome.
Oh, hang on. Just trying to think, can I tell this story online? Hang on. Give me a moment
for my brain to- Well, you think about that. I'll answer someone's question. Yes. Not everyone
on OnlyFans identifies as a sex worker, but I do. So for some people, they would consider
their work sex work from other people. They just consider it like a place to self-express.
And there's different levels of OnlyFans. OnlyFans isn't just for adult work. OnlyFans is like any
other social media platform. It can be used for selling coaching services. It can be used for
selling music lessons. You can use it for anything. It's just really associated or known for sex work,
but it's not the only thing it's used for. I'll give you a watered-down version of what we're
talking about, but me and the guys who were asking for- Some of the guys were asking for your nudes
and I said, go support Nicole on Patreon. We're talking about business ideas. I think I even-
I voice-memored you some business ideas about selling. And then I was just like-
And then the guys were like, you know what? We need to get Nicole into this in this business
venture. And we're like, Nicole, you're going to have to send us your stuff so we can get the
system working, make sure the back end is all down pat. Like, yeah, yeah, we got to get your-
Get us to send us your content and we'll make sure we get it all together. So it was a bit of a-
All in the name of business. Yeah, business. Research. I like- I'm an adult cinema perfectionist.
I love the camera angles, the lenses they use. Perfect. So Jeremy, we have- You've got an amazing
website, but you also have- Let me just first plug- You should plug, sorry, your podcast. Tell
us about it. Yeah, the podcast is pretty new. Only three episodes up right now. I have a really-
I have ADHD, so I have a really hard time talking about it because I've recorded like 10 or 12
episodes, but only three are out. So I'm always wanting to talk about the interview I just did
that's not published yet, but it's me talking with other mental health professionals about their own
mental health. I have some non-mental health professionals I'll say have some special guests
lined up called experts or people who are not therapists talking about mental health.
And it's been like really fun. I don't think we nerd out too much. You might learn something
about therapy or psychology, but it's also just I think very normalizing around the fact that
therapists and mental health professionals need mental health help as well. The first episode
is me interviewing my therapist for the podcast. So it's very like real and genuine around how
even the people who know all the background information still need help with their mental
wellness. Cool, cool. And you've got your website as well. People can go there and learn about-
Wellness with Jer, that's got my YouTube and my Instagram and blogs that I just like riff on
random stuff. So yeah. You did a purely cultural wrap-up panel, which is cool. I did, yeah.
Awesome. Thank you. Thank you, Jeremy. Sometimes I forget to actually share the screen and I'll
go on like a full monologue. So I'm a bad host. Dr. Ben, got your YouTube channel. Tell us about it.
Yeah. So I recently rebranded in case you all knew me when I was student Dr. Ben. I'm no longer
student Dr. Ben. I am now Dr. Ben. I'm a trans man. I'm a resident family physician starting
residency next week, which is terrifying to me. But I do a show called Medical Myths. I had
secular rarity on today talking about enemas, which was a fun time. Talk about coffee up your butt.
Don't put coffee up your butt. That's all you really need to know. But we cover lots of other
myths, like things going around the internet about, you know, what even are some of them?
Like the whole do-baby-start-office-female, I debunk that. That one happens all the time.
We talk about Reiki. Sugar addiction was a big one we talked about. So we just kind of break down
the data behind a lot of like medical related myths. But also there, you'll see some streams.
I have a Bible study I need to get back to doing where we went through a women's Bible study.
Actually, Stacey, it'd be really fun to have you on there. We're reading this book called
True Woman 101, which is a women's Bible study talking about what we're taught in behind closed
doors in a women's Bible study, which is terrifying. Just quickly, I will mention that
that we had Secretary Rarity on yesterday, and he said that he got a message from you that said,
hey, I'm doing an episode on enemas, and I can't think of anyone better to have on the show.
Well, today, he figured out why I had him on. Like, it was purely for the reactions because,
like, I got him very angry, and he didn't expect to be that angry walking away from that stream
today. But he was very angry. That's amazing. I have some lecture content as well, if you want
some like more in-depth sciencey things. But yeah, and then this is the Transatlantic Call-In
show, which I do on the line. So this is a show you can call in every Thursday and talk to real
life trans people about whatever questions you have about being trans, about being queer,
anything going on related to that. And even if you think your question is kind of offensive or you
don't want to ask one of your friends about it, we, as long as you're calling in good faith, like,
we'll have a good discussion with you, and we won't judge you for your questions. We do yell at
people sometimes, but those are people that call in to say very problematic things. Like, if you
come on the show and say how you don't think trans people should exist, we might yell at you.
But if you have a question about trans rights or something that you just don't understand,
feel free to call in and we'll be happy to engage with you on that topic. Or even if you have somebody
in your life that doesn't understand trans issues, they can watch the show or call in and you can
learn a lot from that show. I'm with Jimmy Snowman. I say it's not as popular on the channel,
but I think it should be. I think it's the best thing that the line does. So I'm with Jimmy on
that. Like, I really like the show. Thanks, Ben. And last but not least, the amazing
Stacey's Mom podcast. Tell us about this. Okay, it's brand new. Okay, go. What? What? What?
Guess who's going to be a guest soon? We're coming up with dates. Amy and myself. Oh, yeah.
Yay. Yeah, so this is brand new. We just started it last week. We've had two episodes
and that's me and my mom. She told her story the other day about because she stopped believing in
God before I did, but had to keep it a secret. And so we are just having people come on, hopefully,
to share their story about deconverting together or just deconstructing together people who are in
the same family. And then we're also just going to have other guests on just people that we know
and love in the community. We'll see where it goes. It's going to just, you know, just blossom from
there. So the line has helped with production. And Jimmy's been a great help. He's been helping
me come up with ideas. So stay tuned. Again, it's new. It's going to be an awesome channel. I can
already tell. It's going to be great. We can't wait to come on. Yeah, thank you. And Derek from
MythVision, he and his wife are going to come on and tell their story. And yeah, so I put you on.
Yeah. Cool. And you're also a co-host of Skeptic Haven. Oh, yes. I'm also a co-host on Skeptic Haven,
which as every Wednesday night, I'm on Secular Soapbox with Baffa Metal. We just, oh, if you
go up, you can see Ibleem Bill. We just had Rachel Keenan from TikTok. She's great. We had her on.
That's a perfect image. Sorry. No, it's not your fault. So yeah, we had Ibleem Bill on from
TikTok the other night. She was wonderful. And yeah, it's just super fun. Oh, and this,
this Wednesday night, I'm going to be on the line with Matt DeLahunty. So that's
super exciting. I don't want to worry about that. Yeah. Yeah, just lots of exciting stuff. So yeah.
That's great. And Amy doesn't have a link. So she just said Amy is wonderful and we love her. So
that's okay. Everyone just subscribe to Deep Drinks here. Dave loves doing his podcast and like
the community that is growing and all the guests that he gets to have on. He comes down and tells
me about it all the time. Yeah. So subscribe, guys. Yeah. Thank you. And if you want to, if you
want to get to know our journey a little bit, we have an episode talking about our IVF journey
when we first found out that we were having our little boy Atlas. Well, we didn't know he was a
boy until he got born. I did not know you had that on there. So I will go check it out. And then
Amy's actual, Amy's actual story here is, you know, is like the first time Amy said she wasn't
a Christian was. Oh my gosh. It was a surprise to me. So yeah, it's an episode. But this is before
we recorded, before we went live. This is before we recorded. Yeah. So thank you. Amazing. All right.
Let's jump into the sex education as we got half an hour left on the panel.
Let's jump into the sex education. Jump into it. What are we going to say? Ben,
do you want to take, do you want to take us off? What do people need to know?
Okay. So this is obviously as a physician, this means a lot to me because when you don't know
what you don't know, it's easy to make mistakes. And what people don't understand is like it's
easy to think of certain like STIs as like, okay, yeah, I'll get this for a little bit.
I'll feel bad. It'll go away. I'll move on with my life. But that's not reality a lot of the time.
There's some significant consequences that you can have from certain STIs and something that's
actually been kind of blowing up again on Twitter, especially with regard to
the whole anti-vax community and being especially anti-gardasil vaccine. We have people now that
like, I'm impressed that the public is actually going out there to try and learn about these
things. But it was a shock to me to like, because it's second nature to me, like what
all these vaccines do and all that. But like when we think of something like HPV, we don't talk a
lot about HPV and what it is. People don't know what HPV is. People don't know what the Gardasil
vaccine does. Like if we teach, like especially in a culture that views sex as being dirty and bad
and views STIs with a high amount of stigma, it's easy to say, well, I oppose this vaccine because
it's going to encourage our children to be promiscuous. And it's not a vaccine to
make you want to have sex. It's not a vaccine to encourage you to be unsafe. Like if I frame it
for what it actually is, this is a cancer prevention vaccine. Like if I frame it in that way,
like people are going to be more willing to use it because that's exactly what it is. Like
one of the most common causes of cervical cancer, in fact, like the predominant cause of cervical
cancer is HPV, which is a virus. And it's also one of the leading causes of like throat cancer as
well. So if you have oral and if you say like when we're talking earlier about if you have oral,
because you know you're not supposed to have penis and vagina sex, but you're gonna have oral sex,
but you were never taught about the risks of having intercourse at all, or you weren't vaccinated
against HPV. It's not that like if you don't get sick right away, you're fine. Like this is a
cancer that can develop like over decades. So you're seeing people older that are getting cancer.
We have a friend who literally like had a pap smear and we're like, oh, there's something growing
here like in, and it's because yeah, she wasn't vaccinated because she's older. It wasn't common
back then, but yeah, it's the same thing. Right. It'll get you like after decades and you won't
know you have it until it's like at least for cervical cancer, there's more we can do about it
now, which is why we have so many guidelines for pap smears at age 21, because that's what we're
trying to prevent. And it does get very aggressive. If you have any signs of HPV, like the biopsies that
we have to do are pretty extreme, but there's a reason because we can treat these cancers. Like we
can give you a normal life, but on the flip side with like head and neck cancers, that's
especially scary because a stat I saw recently that 60% of head and neck cancers are inoperable
when they're caught. So if we can prevent this through vaccination and if we teach kids like,
hey, it's great to have these experiences, but this is something that you need to know about.
You need to get vaccinated. You need to be safe. You need to make sure that you're getting tested
and your partners are getting tested. And then so that it's not a shock when these things happen
and that they can make an informed decision for themselves about, are they willing to take that
risk and what can they do to prepare themselves? And it's not necessarily to scare them. I don't
think we should be like, every time you have sex, you're going to get an STI, but you need to be
appropriately aware of your risks. And we do have ways to mitigate that. So that's just one thing.
Another thing like HIV is a huge one. Like HIV is absolutely devastating. And the good news is
that if you are educated and prepared, we have prophylaxis, pre-exposure and post-exposure.
And if you can get treated, like let's say you test positive and you get treated right away,
undetectable is undetectable. You're not going to have the same poor quality of life that you
would have if you didn't know that you had it and you got treated late. So it's very important
that we communicate this because it's devastating to be hit with a diagnosis, but at the same time,
it's better to have that early on and to be prepared so that if you do have it, you can be
treated. And with that, I guess going on my HIV rabbit hole, the stigma we still see around
HIV, even among healthcare providers, is pretty scary because people aren't educated in what HIV
is. And yes, it is absolutely scary. It is a scary, scary disease. But you have even people in clinics
that will refuse to hug a person who's HIV positive because they don't know how it's transmitted.
I can tell you, hugging a person with HIV is not going to get you HIV. You have to be in contact
in just the right way with just the right body fluids for it to infect you. So it is dehumanizing,
absolutely dehumanizing to have a person with HIV come into your clinic and you're wearing full
hazmat suits and refusing to touch them. No, stop it. This is why we need to learn about
all of this because you can seriously make a difference in somebody's life by being properly
educated. Yeah, exactly. No, that was great, Grant. And this is what's important, is there's the
medical side effects. Like safe sex is about knowing the risks and things associated, which
I'm sure you go over on your channel a lot, to do with safe sex. Nicole can teach about how to
have sex on her only fans of the deep-throating. So you can make sure you protect from deep-throating
with the vaccine. Go ahead and deep-throat. And if you're sad about it or need to talk about it,
Jeremy will have some thoughts. I guess real quick, just this final thing, because there's been
some changes, I guess, to the guidelines for the Gardasil vaccine. So generally, you're going to
get that vaccine. Males and females are going to get it in adolescence around like maybe 12,
13 years old. If you didn't get it yet, you can still get it. I think that technically,
you probably get it like anytime in your life. I think the current guidelines are saying you can
get it up to age 45. So if you have not gotten it yet, you can still get it as long as you're
within those age ranges. Okay, cool. I think I'm going to softball some of this up to Ben,
because he knows more about it than I do. But in my line of work, I work with couples,
is one of my specialties. So I do couples therapy. And what I always tell couples is like,
if sex hurts, there's something medically wrong. Like sex should be your body is designed to enjoy
sex. And there are a couple of different things that could lead to sex being painful when it
does not need to be. Sometimes it's a medical thing. Sometimes I will refer out to a doctor,
and that doctor will refer back to me and say it's mental, not physical. But we have to rule
out the physical first, because there are some things that sometimes people need to work through.
But sex is designed to be pleasurable. And so going back to our conversation around like
virginity, it's one of those things where this idea of like, you're going to bleed the first
time you have sex, and women aren't supposed to get enjoyment from sex and like all this patriarchal
bullshit that leads to people having bad sex or painful sex for years, thinking that it's normal
or expected when it's absolutely not supposed to be happening that way.
There's like, can we, I haven't planned for this, so I'm just going to throw it out there, but
can people just shout out some advice if I just like say certain, like, I don't know if this is
a good idea actually. Like Nicole, actually, maybe we'll start with you, Nicole, and then
people can piggyback off you. If people were to ask you, like, come on, go on the fence and ask you,
like, keep it, don't keep it, don't make it X rated, but keep it like,
so come to you and say, like, how do you know me, my partner want to engage in anal sex or oral
sex? Like, what would you say, like, what are the tips you would give them? I know like a typical
one, if someone wants to engage, like put stuff in your bum, a lot of lubricant is probably important.
But like, what would, can you give us some like, some, I guess, pragmatic tips on like, how to
enjoy those areas if someone is interested in. Yeah, when I did my sex act on like,
anal and deep throating, for example, because those are kind of more extreme, I would share,
like, the first line I said was like, it's not for everyone. Because I've had people feel like
because they're not interested in it, that there's something wrong with them. Right? Like, maybe I
still have purity culture, or maybe I'm like, I have shame is like, no, like, just like, we all
have different fleet flavors of food, we prefer different spice levels, we prefer same with things
coming to sex. Like, if you have a curiosity, that's what I'm more interested in. Then, are you
doing this? Are you not? So in my space, I try to have people get in tune with, what are you
curious about? What do you have an interest in? Maybe you've never even admitted to yourself.
And then if you have a curiosity about it, like, this is when you become educated. So
see if you can follow, like I took, there's a sex educator, I follow it, I took one of her
deep throating classes, I'm like, show me, you're an expert, how does this work? What are your tips,
what are your suggestions? So like, get yourself some education and get it from like, good sources.
Porn is great for like, entertainment, some education, but like, from people who are actually
professionals and experts in the field, you're interested looking in, like, give yourself permission
to research, because we can feel guilty about even typing that, like, deep throating advice. But like,
do it, if it's something you're curious about, like, this is the only way we're going to actually
become informed. And then you obviously want to like, feel safe. You have to do stuff like this
with someone you feel very safe with someone who's going to take care of you, and you're going to
take care of them, and you're very in tune and connected. So like, you're not, you're not under
the influence of any kind of drugs or alcohol, like, it's really good to be sober and coherent
and communicative through the whole process. And I always view it as like, savor the small things.
The point isn't to become educated and bam, do anal. The points become educated. And then maybe
we just like touch anus. We learn to like, just even feel comfortable that region of the body,
right? We kiss the butt cheeks, but like, we're just getting closer and closer. And then maybe we
get a super small toy that's always flared at the base, because you don't want somebody to get
stuck up your butt, because you have to have it flared. This like, people end up in the ER for
this all the time. They put it out there, and then it gets fucking stuck. Can confirm. Yes.
Can confirm. It's like, have it flared and do something very small, just like insert the tiniest
tip. Lots of lube, like David said. How does that feel? Do you like that? Pull out more, like,
just enjoy? I think that for me has been my favorite part of my journey on sexual exploration.
It's just, well, besides the threesome with the women, and that was my first girl sex,
outside of that, all the experiences I just like took a little bit at a time and found like,
where is my limit? What, where does it feel good? And was it not feel good? Where do I feel safe?
And where do I stop feeling safe? And that's going to be the beauty. It's not just checking it off
the list. It's like, can I go on this journey and find where I peek in my pleasure in regards to
this thing? You start small. You don't ram it down in the first slide here. I had to share that one.
He's the Pope of DC. Start with a skinny dildo, right? Don't start like, you know what I mean?
Start with something small, like learning, even like learning, where is your gag reflex? Everyone's
reflex is a little different. And like, how much can, how much gagging can you handle?
Is gagging fun for you? Is gagging make you feel scared? Like, you're not going to learn any of
this if you don't like, be curious and try things. But like, yeah, don't just ram your throat the first
time. Please, you're way into it. The point is, I guess, to always do something, always be like,
so this is something I learned in premarital counseling. And we threw a pastor, so it could
all be BS, but it was actually something that really, really stuck with me. And they'll go
over divorce statistics, which was like, fun way to start marriage counseling. But, and there's a
funny story about that, actually, just random aside, I would, I remember when we first sat down,
I was asking, I was asking the pastor, like, what reasons can I get divorced? And I was asking,
because I wanted to know, I was very legalistic in my world.
You gave me a lot of confidence going into the marriage. Yeah, I bet, Amy.
Amy is just like, horrified. And I'm like, wait, so if Amy cheats, can I get the force?
What about this? Like, what about, and I look at, and I look over and Amy says, like, horrified.
And I'm like, what? Well, it's just kind of, I thought we're just finding the rules out here.
Anyway, in premarital counseling, they said, there are two reasons, two big reasons people get
divorced. It's communication is like the big one, that then communication about sex was such a
big category on itself that it didn't, they separated from just communication in general.
And that they were like one of the top five reasons or something. So may or may not be true.
You know, who knows. But I did actually find that really relevant because it is so, Amy and I are
quite open with each other. Like we've seen parts of each other's bodies that no one, you know,
has ever seen. We're very, very in tune with each other, but it's still very hard to communicate
about, about sex sometimes. Like, like, hey, I really enjoyed this, or I didn't enjoy this so
much, or, or like, let's go slow with this, or let's go, you know, like, I want you to be more
aggressive here or whatever, whatever it is, it's actually hard to communicate. And I think
communication is such an important part of what you're talking about in the cold where
it's like, you know, if one partner is like, hey, I want to try this thing, I want to try a
deep thing, doesn't mean it's like, okay, like, like, you're going to have a bruised throat,
like, and like, and you just like, it's, it's, it's a process of like, okay, let's try it,
let's have some fun, like, you know, and like, let's just take it slow and enjoy it. And, and
if both parties enjoy it, and you might find something you like, you might find something
you don't like. You know, I think I don't know if I shared this last time, but like,
I for some reason had this like, funny idea when Amy and I were having sex, I don't know why I'm,
I might have ADD, Jeremy, you might, I needed to get a diagnosis as we talked about when he came on,
but, but, um, but, you know, we're having sex. And I said to Amy, I was like, um, you should
choke me, like, as like, it was kind of like, it was kind of like, just like, I just want to see if
do anything for me. And Amy's like, choked me with her hands. And I was like, and I'm kind of
looking at each other, I was like, this is nothing, this does nothing for me. Like, it doesn't bring
my, it doesn't bring my mood up or down. It's just like, it was like, it was like,
had given me like a high five, like a thumbs up, like, well, actually, that probably brings
things down before having sex. But the point was, it's like, that was like, just a fun experience
of like, let's choke me, like, that's like, I want to see if that does anything for me. And it didn't.
And it was like, but that's like the kind of, uh, like the communication that I guess
you should aim for, for things that you really want to try and or really want to like communicate
about in the bedroom. Um, and everyone has your interest. Yeah. I'm glad you brought that up.
Cause like, I think that's where it all begins. It's just communicating. It's not doing. It's
connecting to your partner or your partners and finding out what are they interested like,
and being a safe person where your partner can say their truth. Like I was listening to a recent
podcast where they say the longer you're in a partnership, the more hesitant people are to
speak their truth. Cause like, well, we've been doing it this way for so long. If I bring this up
now, they're going to feel like I'm lying to them or like, I've been hiding something from them and
like, or I'm going to be embarrassed. Like knowing that's like, how can I intentionally be the kind
of person in my partnership where I'm safe for my partner to always share the truth with me?
Cause right now, David, maybe choking doesn't turn you on. Maybe 10 years from now,
something different, something shifts in you. And you're like, fuck, sorry,
choking now or like, and then the other thing I would say is like, we communicate during
and then we communicate after, but here's a common mistake I see is like right for sex,
people will like, how was it? Oh, good. But, but a day, two, three week later, you have different
feelings about it. So don't assume that just because your conversation right after the event
ended that like we did it and it's fine, feelings can crop up later. And so given your each other
permission, like, Hey, babe, can I talk about like last week's or last month's sex? Cause I've,
I've had something new come up about it. And so it's an, again, just ongoing connection,
ongoing conversation. It's not a one-time act and it's not a one-time conversation.
Um, let's, let's call, let's, um, the, can we, can you describe deep thirding?
How's it different from oral sex? Can you describe deep thirding? How is it?
Well, yeah. I mean, deep thirding is like the intention is to like ram it as far and as deep
into your throat as you can go. Is that, Dr. Ben, what's the average, uh, length of someone's
mouth before we hit the throat? Let's get some medical statistics out. Uh, it's actually not a
ruler. Yeah. Well, it actually, it depends because there's, there's certain, like, because if you
go through the mouth, uh, there's the, the epiglottis, which is that little flap that covers
your, your trachea. And then you have like your, uh, vocal cords. And then like all behind that,
you have the esophagus. So it's funny. Cause like if you touch kind of anything around that,
most people like cough really bad. Uh, cause in fact, like when we're testing for brain death,
like literally, uh, how you do that, if someone's innovated, you literally shove the tube farther
than they usually cough. So that's how you tell somebody's alive or not. Um, but it's very irritating.
So it's, you can only probably get a, I think what's the, now I'm looking for the average length of
because I've never,
I was making a little bit of joke because I talk about it with couples like average penis size,
cause like it's a thing that guys get concerned about, but like average vagina length, like
oddly, they're about the same average size. So like it's just one of those things where I think
people have like these ideas. It was made by God. I hate that. I hate that gesture you're doing with
it so much. Um, so we will play cards against humanity once with some, some really strong
Christians. Um, and, uh, and we'll play, and I still remember the, the, the wife goes,
what's Bukkakakak? And I was like, Oh God, it's Bukkaki. And I was like, and I had to explain
this, what Bukkaki was to, and I'm not going to explain it for anyone. It doesn't know. I look
it up. Just talking Bukkaki, but um, I heard about that on cards against humanity. And then I had to
Google it. It looks like, it looks like you get about five inches is the average.
Okay. So what, what Nicole said, and like everything that Cole said was great. Um,
I think I, one of the things I saw online about ADHD that I like felt offended about was you think
in parentheses, like everything Nicole said, I was like, Oh, I want to say something about that
because she's absolutely correct. But like porn as entertainment, not education is a very good
point to make. Like these are professionals for the most part that you're watching and it's edited
and there's budgets for like the professional porn that's being made. Like that's not a good
way to learn how to have sex or what normal expectations around sex are going to be. So
if we're talking about something that's like kinky, like BDSM or like butt sex or like deep
throating, like porn isn't a good way to educate yourself on that. It is very much what Nicole said,
go find someone who's an expert in the area and learn from them because there's usually like
some runway or some ramping up or some skills to practice. Like if you're into deep throating,
but not into puke, like maybe not a good thing to just jump into if you don't know what you're doing.
If you're super turned off by poop, but really into anal sex, like again, you're going to have
to learn how to navigate some of those things properly and safely. So I think, I think like
porn is education, porn is entertainment, not education is a really good point to make. And
then communication, I tell this to couples constantly to like talk about sex when you're
not having sex. Have a brunch where you talk about sex, go over your turn ons and turn offs.
I have ADHD, somebody in the chat talked about having sex with someone who has ADHD, like
their turn ons and turn offs change. And for three months, they'll be super into one thing and then
never again. So like maybe don't open up your marriage when you're with somebody who has ADHD
because they are just super into like gang bangs for three months. And it's just an ADHD thing.
And then they're not into it anymore. It's like, these are things that you need to know not only
about your partner, but you also have to communicate about. And it's not just, Hey, how was it for you
after sex? It's also, what are your turn ons? What are your turn offs? What are your hopes?
What are your dreams? Like, what are we doing with sex? Are we trying to have a baby? Are we
trying to have fun? Like, what are we doing? And those are conversations that you have over
dinner or over brunch or after the kids are asleep. Like those are not conversations to have
during sex or right after sex. I love that. So I love that. And something that you said
there really resonated is porn is entertainment, not, not education. So last time we spoke,
I mentioned a previous partner of mine. I've now got permission in the private chat to talk about
it. So one time Amy, I smoked a little bit of weed and Amy was drinking and she said,
maybe she should be a little bit of porn. We're just sitting on the couch and I was like,
what? She'd never seen it before in your entire life. My voice is not like that.
And, and I was like, what? And anyway, so we ended up, I was like, okay, and I found porn and
she's like more extreme. And I was like, and I kept showing her to the point where we got up to some
like, it's crazy stuff. Some, you know, I was pulling out my like debauchery folders or whatever,
like links. And, and, and Amy was like, cool. But what I noticed very quickly when we decided to
watch it as for entertainment, just with us and in our marital bed, we, I noticed that the porn
that I liked was very much focused on the girl, like it was very much like, you didn't see much of
the guy, like, in the experience. And so then, then all of a sudden, it was again, bringing
someone into that world of mine, I was like, Oh, like, I need to like Google, like the first time
I went to porn hub and I was googling, like, girl porn, like, what is it? And it's like,
soft lighting, there's massages like going on and things like that. And, and it was, it was a new
world for me. But, but, but definitely like, if I was to just be educated with the type of porn
that I watched, I would have a very different understanding of what sex looked like. So yeah,
and not to say that all women like the same porn or, or, or, you know, everyone's different.
But again, yeah. And we change your times, like I saw someone's comment saying they find
deep-throating degrading and I think I find blowjobs degrading. And I refuse. I was like,
I'm not sucking the dick of the patriarchy. Get the fuck out of here. Like, oh, you shit. Right.
And I had to do a lot of healing around that for me. And never would have guessed 10 years ago
that I would be doing a sex ed panel or a sex ed livestream on how to deep throat. So just shows
like we are, we are always evolving and changing. And I loved Carrie's comment because I find this
comment about sex ed spaces, we talk in mostly like heterosexual terms, penis and vagina, right.
So it completely leaves out queer sex of all kinds. It leaves out vulva and vulva. It leaves out
trans and cis or trans and like it leaves out so much. And then like when, and this is why I also
don't like virginity, because then what does, how does that apply to lesbians, right? It's like,
we're so used to being associated sex with penis and vagina that we leave out entire people groups.
And that's also something we have to work on that our sex education has to be comprehensive.
It has to include different bodies and genders and types of relationships, not just P and B.
Right. And that's too like why you have certain like higher risks within those queer communities
because number one, you're not learning about sex at all. And then when you are, you're not
being taught how to be safe in same sex couples. You're not being taught how to be safe in
polyamorous relationships. You're not. And even if you're taught, you're not viewed in the medical
community as the same. And so the research behind risk factors in those populations, it's just
not as well known because people just don't think about it. Like, and, and it's just something with
everything that we talk about within the atheist community at all. Like the fact that the majority
of it is so cis heterocentric. And like, that's always where the conversation is. But like, hold
on, there's different conversations to be had from other perspectives. And we're missing out on
on these things. And it's like, it's very harmful to leave those people out.
I actually, so I was up till, till about no, 1am last night, these bags are Gucci, all right.
And I was up till 1am making this this slide. And only at the end, I realized like how hetero
normative it was, but there's some this thing. And I was like, oh, like, I'm not making it,
I'm not staying up till whatever, till like two in the morning trying to make it more inclusive.
But the reason just so everyone knows, like it comes across as hetero normative. But the reason
I chose it is these are these are the front covers of a Playgirl and a Playboy magazine
from like the 60s and the 70s. So that's why I chose it. But I was like, damn, even like without
even me trying, just just using like retro material, I was like, oh, yeah, I'll use retro
material. And then like, I finished it. And I'm like, it's too white, like it's too white people.
And like, these are different images, but it looks like they're a couple. And also his head,
I use some Photoshop's new AI to make his head. So it's not actually bold, but there was like text
covering that. But like, the new Photoshop AI, like, maybe his head looked like that. But I was
like, you know what, I'm leaving it, I don't care. It's 12, it's midnight. So yeah, but it's
interesting you say that. Ben, it's like, yeah, it's like, you don't realize, especially myself,
like, I don't realize like how my language is so hetero normative. Like, even, even, you know,
Nicole bring me up, Nicole said to me like last time after the stream, like, because I used,
I used pussy as a derogatory in, in last stream. And she's like, yeah, don't do that. And I was
like, that's a very good point. Thank you for like telling me that because like, like, I didn't even
that just came out. Like I was like, and I'm on a stream talking about like positive sex. And I'm
saying like, pussy is a derogatory. It's just, it was, it was silly. It just doesn't, just so much
learning to do. It's interesting too, because like, from, from the flip side, like I have a trans
and just like we're in general bias, like I view the world as like, I, it just doesn't occur to me
that not everybody's trans. I just assume everybody's trans. And I assume everybody is some flavor
of queer that like when people talk about like heterosexual relationships and like cishet relationships,
I'm like, it just doesn't click to me. Like why? Like how could somebody even be that? Because it
just doesn't make sense to me. So it's like, the bias is the same. Like I think everybody has their
own, like we, we approach everything in life from our own lens. And there's, there's no way, like
even if someone explains their perspective to you, there's no way that you could fully understand
somebody else's lens. And even when someone tells you about their experience, you're still approaching
it from your own lens. And it's, it's very interesting to think about. But like, it's easy to feel bad,
like that, that you see the world in a certain way. But like, I'm not immune to that because I'm a
minority or because I'm queer. Like I have the same issues with bias to where I just cannot
understand cishet people at all. And there are times when maybe I would come across as like,
okay, hold on, that's, I can't just assume that about somebody or I like, I think it goes multiple
directions. So the long story short, I think that like, you shouldn't feel bad that that's the lens
that you see life with. And I think like this communication is, is helping all of us kind of
at least try to see past that. So don't don't feel bad about it.
Yeah. So what were you saying? Can we can we talk consent quick? Because I know we're on a little bit
of a time crunch, but I think we are on a little bit of a time crunch. We all wanted to comment on.
Let's talk about consent. And then we'll talk about parenting after puberty culture. And please,
if there's anything I've missed, let me know. And we can talk about that as well. But yeah, let's go.
So one of the things that I talk about consent, and especially for people who are coming out of
who are deconstructing or grew up in puberty culture is like sex is a thing that consent is
ongoing. And so every aspect of foreplay of the sex that you're having, you can withdraw your consent
at any time. And consent is a two way street. So consent is about having sex, what the sex
feels like, how it's going. Consent is constantly ongoing and updating itself. It isn't like, oh,
I, you know, we started fooling around. And so I have to go all the way or like, I would feel bad,
I would give them blue balls if I stopped right now. Like, that's so shitty in patriarchal, like
consent is you can withdraw at any time. And so I don't think it needs to be something. This is
where I go back to the point I said earlier of talk about sex when you're not having sex,
but having something like a safe word, a lot of couples who are engaging in some sort of kink
have a like green light, yellow light, red light type verbiage around slowing down or stopping
something. If it doesn't feel good, like those those communication things are helpful, but
consent is like bare bones. The building block of healthy sexuality is that sex is between
consenting adults, like it's something that is consensual and feels good for both partners and
or multiple partners, everybody who's engaged. And it's something that can be withdrawn at any
time for any reason, like you don't have to say why you don't owe anyone an explanation. Like,
if you're not feeling it, you don't have to keep doing it. And it starts from when kids are young.
I'm kind of already jumping to parenting. I'm so I'm a parent of three kids. And we practice that
now we're like, if a couple of my kids are like tickling each other and one kid says stop, immediate
stop. It doesn't matter how much fun you're just having, it doesn't matter. Like, and so I'm teaching
my kids, I say, when someone's to stop, we stop, or I teach them more than that doesn't have to be
verbal. It can be a cue. Like, if you sense someone's body language to start, like they feel
uncomfortable with the way you're encroaching on their like their space or the like, you have got
to pay attention to people's body language and their words. And I'd rather you guys stop too
soon. So we practice that we honor that. So my kids know as soon as they say, stop whatever it is,
we will stop. And I'm excited to see how that will help translate in their relationship someday,
like that they practice it their whole life that they're allowed to say no, they're allowed to say
stop, they're allowed to change their mind at any moment. Because I was not taught that. And it took
me years to unlearn my programming of automatically saying yes, or saying something longer than I
should, because I'm afraid of hurting someone's feelings. Yeah, kids, you can hurt my feelings.
You could it's okay to hurt people's feelings if it's protecting you like not to harm anyone,
but you saying no, stop is your right. Yeah, yeah, they'll get over it. They'll get over it.
Yeah. But bodily Oh, sorry, go ahead, David. Go, go, go, go Jeremy. I was going to jump off of
that a little bit on parenting. But like bodily autonomy is something that you can start teaching
very young. So like if if I have two little boys, a five and a two year old, like if you don't want
to hug someone, you don't have to like there is no kissing family members on the cheeks if you
don't want to like if you want to fist bump or high five, like you do you. And that's really
helpful to them. My five year old is hilarious. And he'll be like, it's my body, my choice. I don't
want to go to bed. I'm staying up. You have to learn how to roll with some of it as a parent and
be like, well, your choice is to read a book or to go to bed without a book. That's your choice.
Right. And like you can reframe these things and still promote autonomy and still promote
healthy boundaries without letting your kids like run roughshod. But it's super helpful around like
you don't have to hug someone if they don't want like to teach a two year old that or to teach
a five year old that helps them as they get older. And it's actually mature to be able to say,
I don't like that or it doesn't feel good or I'm not comfortable with that. And so no, like I don't
want to do that. Yes. I just want to quickly mention too about consent. And this this is
quite dark. So I apologize for pivoting us to something dark right before we
talk a little bit more about parenting. But there's, there's a huge piece of horrible
cas history around homophobes. And that is like, well, if people, if we accept a gay marriage,
then eventually people will want to marry kids. And even see like there's the debate between
you know, Daniel, I forgot his name, he's a Muslim, and, and Michael Jones, who's a Christian,
where you know, Daniel was saying that, you know, we should be able to marry
six year olds and five year olds and four year olds and stuff. But you know, homosexuality is
definitely wrong. The reason why one is wrong, one, one is okay, and one is not okay is because
children cannot consent. They cannot give informed consent. They cannot give informed consent. And
that's a big, the big reason why you won't see the LGBT community advocating for child brides in
the future. That's this is not about like, but that's the narrative that's pushed by a lot of
churches, a lot of people, it's like the next step, it's like the slippery slope argument, right?
So I wanted to just kind of piggyback on what you're saying there about consent, because
that's the reason why we don't advocate for things like that.
And I will say, when I went to my very first drag show in 2016, I learned more about consent
in the first five minutes than mine in the Christian church. They make that very clear at the beginning
of drag shows. They're very clear. They lay the ground rules. And consent is huge at drag shows.
Oh, yeah, my, my, someone who is very close in our family, who's like a brother to me,
his, his partner is a drag queen. And we've gone to so many of, of her shows and consent is like
the number one thing at the beginning of the show. Yeah. And it's, oh my gosh, I love that.
If you break the terms of consent, they kick you out of the club. Oh, yeah. So it's just like,
and it goes both ways. Yeah. Yeah. I love drag. It's the best. I love drag. I'm going to, I'm going
his, her next show in two weeks from yesterday. It's a big competition and I'm so excited. So
I have to say, I know like we're running short on time, but for people who know that American
Atheist Convention was in my city this year. So, so it was here. So I had a fun time driving people
around and like taking people to do all the fun things in Phoenix. But I told people like,
because there was the evening with the whole like VIP dinner or whatever. I was like,
none of us are going to pay like $200 to talk to people that we already know. So I was like,
I reserved a table for a drag show, like one of the best drag shows in Phoenix.
And we had a few extra seats. And so I had met a few people at the conference and I was like,
offering people spots at the, at the table. You want to go watch them drag with us. And it was,
it was funny because I'm not going to name who they are because I don't want them to feel bad.
But I was like, one person had initially declined a more masculine cis man was like,
no, it's okay. I don't think I'll go. And I was like, okay, well, if you want to join us,
like just let me know and I'll give you the seat. And later on, he ended up deciding he wanted to
go. And he had such a blast. Like I think he had some of the most fun out of like everybody in the
group. And so it was a super cool experience, like getting cis het people who would never
would have thought that they could enjoy queer culture at a queer like drag is for everybody.
Like it's not queer culture is not limited to queer people. Like it's for everybody to enjoy.
Go watch a drag show. Oh, but everyone should go watch at least one drag show. It's a great
isn't that funny that I do remember the first time I went to the first time I went to a strip
club was at a box party. I went inside the strip club. And the first thing I thought was like,
wow, Amy would really like it in here. Like it was all like bellesque style. And I was like,
this is very quiet. Like this is no Amy would like the outfits and like
Amy, like it was my first thought. So I was just going to say are the the first
drag show that my mom and I went to she got a laugh dance. And she loved it. And she was
she turned to to my brother. And she's like, I'm really questioning my sexuality. Like,
wow, this was amazing. And yeah, so it was the best go everyone needs to go to drag shows.
I don't know much about drag shows at all. So go just go watch find one go look up
best drag shows in my area and then find ones that have good reviews and then go go bring
some singles because they like tips. When they're performing, you don't even give them the smallest
note we have in Australia is $5. That's what we have to. Yeah, they'll probably tip with that
then, whatever. Like dollar coins is like, yeah, well, like, well, like, and and people will
tip. So like, of course, like, it's the same as if you were at a strip club, like they're
performing and then you hold out like the money they'll come by and they'll like flirt with you
while they take it. And it's kind of like, of course, you're going to do it. But yeah,
don't feel weird about it. No, I don't feel weird about it. Okay. So I'm sorry. Sorry, my brain.
Parenting after period of culture. So we talked a little bit about that. Let's wrap up with this
and let's talk about like, you know, Stacey, Nicole, Jeremy, you guys all have children.
Can you tell us a little bit more about like, what do you do to teach your kids about, you know,
sex and stuff? Like for Amy and I, I remember we were only new parents, four months old,
atlases, and when because we did the extraction of faith, and we're like, all of a sudden, I
realized like, Oh, shit, like, what do we teach our kids about morality? Like, is stealing wrong?
Why is it wrong? How do we determine that? Like, so like, I ended up writing this document called,
you know, my, my, like my parental values that I found like important. And I thought about it for
months. And Amy thought about it, and we wrote down our parental values. And it was like, what do we
consider like good things for a virtuous life or a good life? And like, you know, how do we,
and part of that was, you know, around purity culture. But I'd like to know, like, what do you
guys do with like, further on down the, down that line of having children? What do you do?
Well, our kids, they just started going to public school a year ago, because they were in
Christian school prior to that. So their sex education only began just over a year ago, because
this time of the school year, so end of May, beginning of June, they bring in, it's called
SOGI, which is sexual orientation gender identity. They bring that in to teach the kids about sexual
orientation gender identity. And it's age appropriate for K to 12. And so the parents can
sit in on a Zoom meeting with just to know what each grade is going to be talked about. So you
kind of know ahead of time what they're going to be told in class. And so my husband and I, because
we had never been exposed to the public education, and we wanted to kind of know ahead of time, okay,
what are they going to be told so that we can tell them first, we didn't want them to hear it
from someone besides us. So they were going to be told basically pretty much everything. And so
last year around this time, we told them, we gave them the sex talk. And and that included
everything they found out about LGBTQ. And so it also was very natural because we have people
in our family who like, like my brother, I was just mentioning he and his partner, they see them
all the time. And they're affectionate in our home, there's no nothing is like off limits. So
they're exposed to that culture. So I shouldn't say culture, but you know what I mean, they're
exposed to that. And it's just normal. And we also have people in our family who are trans. And
that's just, we just mentioned, hey, like, this is just how it is. And so it's just kind of come up
naturally, and matter of factly. And if they have questions, we can tell them. But they've been told
kind of the same way my mom approached it with me, like nothing's off limits. And I'll tell you,
and yeah, it's not a big deal. Hey, you want to go get a slurpee? Yeah, sure. Okay. And that's
the end of that. And then if they have questions, we can tell them. So keeping it real, you can come
to us. But you know, if when the time comes, like our oldest is 11 right now. So I've asked him,
hey, do you have crushes on anyone? And he instantly kind of like burst into tears, because
he's just not into anyone. So he probably won't date till he's like, in college. So we're not really
at that stage of his life. But it's just very open and honest. And yeah, we have, but that's
how we've been dealing with it. And if obviously, I'm before I thought I would take the approach of
abstinence only. That's not how I will, we will be approaching it. It'll just obviously safe
and informative and that. So yeah. When we, when we did, when we had Amy on, when I had Amy on
deep drinks the first time, or maybe the second time, it was one of the episodes, you have to
watch both find out. But I gave her like Christian parents worst nightmares. So I said, you know,
our son comes home, this is before we had a son or a daughter or anything. A son comes home and they
bring the boyfriend home and they're like, Hey, this is my boyfriend, Jeremy. What do you say?
And I was like, I'll just give him like, like, like nightmares for the Christian conservative
parent, right? And what did you say, baby? You said, Hi, Jeremy, nice to meet you. Like it was like such a
you're muted. Oh, you're muted.
Sorry, I've just put him to bed in the prime. Yeah, I don't see it as a big deal at all. Like,
yeah, exactly what he said, nice to meet you, Jeremy. How are you going?
Yeah, but if the kids swore, they mean Amy is struggling with that, aren't you, babe?
I don't like, it doesn't like swear words.
Nicole, I think you have older kids than me. So you might have done more of the
parenting than I have. Yeah, how old are your kids, Jeremy?
Five and two. Oh, they're so cute. Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, I'd love to hear from you too, Jeremy. I mean, even the vice you gave earlier
about like, you don't have to hug or kiss, like you don't owe body, your body to anyone and
teaching them at such a young age is fucking huge. So yeah, if you have more, I'm so open.
And then I think one of the one of the big things that we do is, is we use
anatomy appropriate language. So like a penis is a penis, a vagina is a vagina or a vulva,
like we explain it to our boys so that they know what words to use so that they can describe it
appropriately. Like there's ingrained shame around calling it something different than what
it's anatomical, anatomical term is. And that's a weird way where like purity culture seeps in
and makes people embarrassed about things like everybody laughs about like wiener, booby or
whatever. Like those are ways that like you're, you're teaching, you're maybe not intending to,
but you're showing that like these are things that we're ashamed of and predators prey on
shame. And so it makes people more vulnerable to feel uncomfortable to say like somebody touched
my penis or somebody touched my breasts and I was uncomfortable with it. Like that's why we use
anatomical terms for those things and those are totally appropriate for any age. Like penis isn't
a bad word, vagina isn't a bad word, nipple isn't a bad word, like there aren't bad words. So teaching
kids those things are a way to educate them and help keep them safe and also gives them confidence
to speak about their own body and to know what's going on with their own body in a way that I think
using like pet names or whatever like weird sort of euphemism you have for it helps them to feel
a little bit more confident with it. But like I talked about like giving your kids choices is
really developmentally appropriate. So I have a two year old and a five year old. And so like
choices are very helpful for building autonomy. And so like our two year olds and diapers,
sometimes he gets a rash, you have to put buck cream on it. He hates it. It's uncomfortable. He
doesn't like it. You guys get it because you got one in diapers right now. But like at this age,
he can, he can talk and communicate. So it's who do you want to put the buck cream on? Like do you
want daddy or mommy or do you want to do it yourself? And so it's always building in those
choices of like the option isn't you get buck cream or not. That's not the control he has over
his body at his age, but he still gets to make a choice around how it's happening and what he's
agreeing to. And so that's a way to like set healthy boundaries and promote health and high
good hygiene while still promoting something like bodily autonomy. So it's really big. I talk with
parents often in the therapy role of use the proper terminology that helps protect your kid
and then like give them options, give them choices. There are ways to do choices at any age
that are developmentally appropriate and that helps promote autonomy. The goal of parenting is at
some point to successfully launch your children out into society, not that you do it for them
forever. So like it is really about getting them in a space where they can do it safely
themselves without needing another person. But like there are steps we have to take to get there.
That was gold. Nicole, Nicole's episode. There's, there's sometimes I have someone on
deep drinks and they're something they say like change like plants are seed and it changes my
perspective. And, and that's been happening since I had Nicole on where she's, you mentioned
nudely isn't shameful in your house. You know, and that was like, because I was like, when do,
because I was thinking like, when do I start coming up around Atlas? And then I realized
that what you mentioned is like that the act of covering up is, is, is explaining is like
saying to Atlas, like there's something shameful. I'm hiding something away. And maybe that's the
same with the words. So we know it's a willy. It's a, you know, whatever. It's a JJ. If you just use
anatomically correct words, there's no shame around that. There's not like a naughty word. It's
not like a, like a word that you can't use. They just removing the shame and guilt around
body, a body image, things like that. And that really stood out to me, Nicole, when you kind of
mentioned that. Can you talk a little bit about that? Yeah, I love that. And it's just like,
I was never into that. Like, it's been, you see, my kids have seen me more for real time.
They used to be super conservative and modest and very, have a lot of body shame. And then I've
morphed into like very sex positive, body positive. And just like, I moved from Minnesota to California,
where it was so drastically warmer here that I just happened to naturally start being naked more
often. Like it wasn't like I chose, it's like, I just noticed like, why wear clothes? It's like
warm and gorgeous. I'm in my house. And so my kids just started seeing me more and more naked.
And they were young enough to where it's like kind of normal. And sometimes a little give me,
they'll give me a hard time. Like they'll come into my room and see me naked. Like, ah, mom,
I'm like, it's my room. Like, don't want to see it lock on the door. Like, so it's like funny
facts, like run downstairs real quick. And I'm naked and they're like, mom, I'm like, sorry,
I'm hurry. So like, it's kind of become playful. But it's not because it's coming from me. It's
just like, I think age appropriate, like, I don't want to see you naked, mom. I'm like,
that's totally fair. I'm just grabbing this. I'll go right back up. But I think we just
normalize at a young enough age that like, bodies are amazing, bodies are normal,
like of all sizes of all types. And so I kind of like what Stacy was saying is like, I really
value exposure. I think exposure and education is really important. And so like, I would, I have,
you know, books about sex and LGBTQ all over my house. So when my kids are just sitting down
and they happen to see it, it's me kind of having a conversation with them through the book. And so
it's like, you know, book that says my volva. And I saw my daughter pick it up one day at dinner,
she's just reading it at dinner, never told her to, I just leave books around as options for them,
and they read everything. And so that's been a way where I inform them and educate them. And then
they have no shame, they just read it and they put it away because it's not, I've never told
them they have to read it. And then I don't, I don't quiz them after, I'm like, what'd you think
about that book? What'd you learn about your book? I just trust like they're getting information.
And if they have questions, they're going to bring it up to me. And then I do think it's
important like it's like, because I realized my queerness so late in life, I intentionally
like make sure my kids are exposed to queer communities, queer spaces, queer relationships,
queer culture. So they have it normalized in their psyche so that they end up being queer.
That's normal, natural. So I highly recommend like form friends with queer people. Go to
queer clubs, go to queer events, support local queer performers or theologians or whoever's like
make that part of your life so like it becomes part of your kids lives. We're like trying to
integrate society and like normalize groups of people and we have to do that with our own actions.
So forming those relationships, we've even taken our kids on like protest march marches,
like I just want them to be aware like we actively go for our rights and we speak up for those who
have been marginalized and oppressed throughout history and so like teaching my kids to use their
privilege to help other people. So it's like one thing I try to do as much as my home as possible
but then it's important that I try to get them out into the world and expose them to the different
people groups. And then I intentionally like well now and then try to find movies or shows that
highlight non-heteronormative relationships. So cartoons that have like, you know, girlfriends
or boyfriends or trans characters and just like trying to intentionally show that the whole
world is not white, straight and cis because in America that is predominantly the media especially
like we're white passing even though I'm biracial. It's like it's so easy for it to fill your home
and TikTok and YouTube and like we have to consciously kind of curate books and movies and
shows to help educate and expose our children to different people groups, different understandings,
different identities for their well-being and for the world's well-being.
That's um that that I love that. Just quickly too, someone mentioned I should just leave all
the literature on meta-ethics around the house so that I can work out the morality.
I did just before we end the show. Yeah, tell us what you want.
Yeah, so I'm not a parent but I do see adolescents and children and so you can
like for parents that are wanting to have these kind of conversations with your kids and all that
like be sure number one that you have a good doctor for your kids to talk to. We do a lot of
sex ed like in the clinic oftentimes like very individualized like and it's not like super
blatantly obvious a lot of times like sometimes like depending on their age group it's like oh
have you been interested in people romantically or have you thought about certain things and like
starting to get them to think about it so that hopefully they trust us enough to like where
they can tell us their concerns or any issues that arise and oftentimes I'm going to tell the
parents to get out of the room so that we can have that conversation like alone and it's not
because they distrust you necessarily but like if something they're embarrassed about needs to
to be talked about with me it's hopefully we have a good enough relationship where we can address
that so if if I ask you to get out of the room while I talk to your kid about their sexual
activity like it's not it's not us hiding anything from you and like no I probably won't tell you
what they said because that's a violation of privacy but like I mean if you're curious about
the things that I said like I'd be happy to tell you like certain things about like okay here's the
type of sex ed I usually give people like here's the recommendations I give but like I won't tell
you what specifically they told me but definitely have a good relationship with your pediatrician
or your family doc and and we can we can help out I think with some of that. I love that
another thing I want to say is that something started me is like don't assume your kids gender
or sexuality so like just don't assume that like some people are asexual and so it's like
you know when you were like do you have a girlfriend do you have a boyfriend who you question on now
and it's like maybe they don't and so like I have books about like being trans or asexual
like across the spectrum because like I don't know if my kids will ever date like I don't
know if that's something they're even interested in or like I know like our identity is always
shifting and it's like kind of giving them that space of like I've told my kids hey if you ever
want to go by a different name or if you have different pronouns or different gender at any
point you can tell me and I will support you and they're like yeah mom I know you've told us before
but like I I want to say it repeatedly because there's so much pressure that once you're you
you can't change but you're allowed to change or evolve or learn new things about yourself at any
point so I try to keep it so open like I will support you whoever however you are and I kind
of let them lead the way I don't assume they're straight I don't assume they're gay right now you
present as a female but that changes let me know I'm joking because I try to really like
create a space of safety to be like your true self so I'm like hey if you happen to come out queer
we're throwing you a freaking party and one of my kids said I'm gonna come out queer so I can have
the party and then I'll go being straight the next day and I'm like oh my god you're so freaking
genius right I'm just trying to communicate I will always hate you yeah I actually you know when I
hold out for something he loves to stand up and he stands up and he goes like I'll just hold his
way he can stand up and hold himself up already he can't even sit upright but he holds himself up
on the couch but um when he stands up he uh hold him by the waist and he goes uh on his hand he's
like face gets all red and he's like his core's tensing and he's shaking and he puts his arms out
and he looks like he wants to be like a bodybuilder I'm like oh he's such a strong little boy oh a
strong boy and I had to pull myself back and I was like I'm gonna remove the word boy there and I'm
just gonna be like yeah he's so strong so strong because he you can tell he wants to he's so stoked
that he can stand up so I'm I'm I realize I was encouraging I was tying it with masculine like
tying it with um with the gender rather than just saying like you're strong so it's sort of changing
my wording around it like oh how strong you are oh so strong and just removing the um the gender
and norms um around that there but I love that and one of the things that Nicole's getting at that I
I talk about with parents a lot too is like as a parent just letting your kids know that they can
come to you is huge like you don't have to get the words right all the time you don't have to be
perfect on every single aspect of their lives because you're not going to be like there's
too many years in between you and your kids like you don't have to be cool you don't have to be hip
you just have to let them know that like your door is open and depending on what their age range is
like if they're teenagers they're not gonna like signal to you that they need to talk like they're
gonna bring it up once and if you miss it like opportunities gone that windows closed so like
constantly saying like hey my door is open and when they finally like walk through that door
actually like drop whatever you're doing close your computer put your phone down like whatever
it is and like let them talk to you because that takes a lot of like courage for them to do that
and so it's as a parent just constantly being like hey like whatever you want to talk about I'm here
for you let me know like I got you whatever you need and like lots and lots of reassurance and
letting them know so like don't put pressure to get it right all the time but be very consistent
in that you're there to be a support whenever they're ready or whenever they need to talk
I still remember when my mom did this and she might be watching but it was amazing I was like
10 years old and I said mom I need to talk to you about something and then and it was around
sexuality and mom came in dropped everything and was just so open and honest and told me about her
own life so it was I still remember that moment it was so if if mom said I'm too busy at the time
that would have been that would have brought so much trauma or low tea trauma or whatever
but yeah I'm so glad that my mom did that she's an amazing woman so everyone here has had your
links in the description for everyone's stuff everyone here has been on deep drinks before
Nicole Jeremy's been on deep drinks Stacy you're going to be on again hopefully with your mother
hopefully yeah we're going to be on your channel Dr. Ben you've been on and Amy you've been on
twice and this is awesome thank everyone for coming out um so yeah I just think we'll end
there because it is we are half an hour over time thank you for saying a little bit and thank you
everyone who's chatting in the comments I did read a lot of them thank you uh and yeah see everyone
later thank you everyone
you
