You
You
Welcome to deep drinks podcast where the drinks are deep and the conversations are deeper
Welcome everyone to deep drinks podcast tonight. We have a very special episode
Well, it's actually today for most people watching but for me it's tonight and that's that's different because normally
I'm drinking alcohol like 10 in the morning on a Saturday, but tonight
We're drinking non-alcohol at night, which is good. So I have a few quick announcements before we get into it
So I just want everyone who's watching to click subscribe if you like content like this
So currently at the moment
We have 84 of you guys are not subscribed and we want to get to a thousand subscribers as soon as possible
We're still a long way off that but the reason is is because I
Got this thing inside me where I just want to do a really long
I want to do a six hour charity stream where we can pull some money together and give it to like a really good cause
I don't have anything in mind just yet, but I really want to do a charity stream where we can
Use the force of this channel to do something awesome and amazing and help the world in
In a good way
the second thing I want to mention is
If you are listening to this in the future
on a podcasting app
You can engage in these conversations if you want if you go to youtube.com slash deep drinks
So and also if you do like listening instead of watching you can listen on podcasting apps or on spotify apple
Podcast google podcast everything. It's all there. We go all the episodes and this episode will be uploaded later today
um
The last thing I want to mention is we are going to ask questions all throughout
It's always a good time to ask questions
But if you've got some seriously big juicy questions that you really want derrick or myself to answer
Save them for the end or at least repost them again at the end because you'll have a much better chance of us getting to them
So without further ado, I'd like to mention who we have on today's show
Which is derrick who's the host of derrick lambett who is the host of the wildly popular
myth vision podcast is
Over 50,000 subscribers and he has over a thousand videos. He infuses experts on religion mythology philosophy and everything in between
Derrick was a born again christian who lost his faith
Amid his rehabilitation from heroin addiction. So like
I really that that that sounds harrowing and I really want to learn about what that process was like
But not only that but derrick has also interviewed an incredibly large amount of people
Like I said, he has over a thousand videos many with different perspectives on core points of biblical scholarship
With so many perspectives, um, I'm interested to see
What derrick thinks about some of the big questions in current religious discourse?
So with that said, I'd like to welcome derrick from myth vision podcast. Welcome derrick
Thank you, man. Thank you so much for having me on. I appreciate it everybody in the chat is a god
Thanks for showing up seriously
Uh, well, this is um, this is going really well so far. We've got um
We've got 24 viewers, which is awesome and um
We've actually been trying to do this for a long while derrick. So derrick was actually supposed to be the first guest on
deep drinks podcast and then
You know, we just could never make it work, but we finally got you here and
It's so good to see you man. It's so good to finally get you here to talk about your journey
And so what we normally do when we start this is we normally talk about what we're drinking
So what are we drinking? Um derrick
Gotta have my starbucks
When you're a god, you got to drink your starbucks
Then you got to go sit on the throne like 15 minutes, you know, and then you're good to go
That's pretty much what happens with me
Yeah, so if we have to duck out, um for 15 minutes mid show
We apologize. We'll try and be in sync, but i'm it's for me. It's 1 a.m. And i'm drinking a large
Coffee here in australia, which you know what it's uh, it's different. It's different to being drunk at 5 a.m. On a Saturday, so
um
That's good
And it actually your drink of choice actually plays in a little bit into your story
Um, doesn't derrick where you know, obviously you're clean and sober. How many how long have you been cleaning sober for now?
October the 25th. Um, I will have seven years off of heroin
And I was I had a beer in the midst of my run with heroin, but as far as like blackout drunk
Active in addiction with alcohol
It's probably been eight or nine years since I've had a drink
and um
I'm a blackout drunk, you know type of person. So
It's always good news when i'm not drinking
well that that is
Fucking awesome, man. Like that's that's so good to hear. Um, I always tease people and tell them like when I go to a public place
They're like, hey, you want to drink and because it's odd to like say no, thanks or whatever and i'm actually allergic and they're like
You're allergic to alcohol. Absolutely every time I drink I break out in handcuffs
and then they're like
All right. Yeah, let's not give this guy any alcohol, you know
I
It's actually it's actually I've heard I've heard another one. Um, where it's like, um, I mean, I'm allergic to it
When I have one I can't stop and I can't stop having more than more than one or whatever. Um,
so I'd love to
Get into this a little bit like just get deep dive dive deep into it because
I'd love to dive deep into it because
Um, I know in rehab and a a meetings and na meetings they talk about the second step
I think it's the second step where it's, you know, submitting to a higher power
Right, and there are some blokes who you know, I've been to a meetings and a meetings before in my life
and my father was an alcoholic and things like that and I
Some blokes will say I remember one one guy. He had a um, he had a um
His his god was a as a was a truck
And and the reason it was a truck is because he could drive past
14 bottles every day and not go into one of them and he says that was his higher power
Um, but as you know, most people most people, uh, you know through through the a a program and a program don't end up making it
Um, and and the the thing that people used to always say when I was a believer is it's the people who really believe in the god
That helps them get through
That gets through the high power. So
I'd like to just like
I guess I guess let's first start quickly with what kind of a christian you were and then we can move into
You becoming addicted and how you got addicted to drugs and then eventually how you escape that
Oh
the kind of christian I was was
Like any average, I'd say southern type of christian. I mean instead of being a baptist
I was more into the gifts of the spirit because
um, my mom used to like bribe me to go to church
with uh, all you can eat buffet
I'm an eater and I'd go
Was it really into it?
But I picked up stories when I would be in like the children's area or whatever
But when I'd go with her in the main area sometimes because I didn't want to go
I just lay in her lap and go to sleep. It was so boring. Like it literally was that boring
I mean, it really really it was and I didn't care about it
But you know, mom was a christian
Dad was roman catholic. He wasn't really a practicing catholic. He was just kind of the guy who's like, you know
Whenever I see the priest, I'll say, you know, forgive me
um
but like
It was when I was
10 or 11
I was playing baseball and I never played catcher. I'm usually shortstop or pitcher or something like that
I was playing catcher and a ball bounced underneath uh, bounced underneath my gonads and uh, I was experiencing extreme pain
So a guy passing by
Uh, was like, hey, he ran to the local fire station got some ice brought it back helped me out. We became friends
I'm kind of
Blasting through this to give you what happened
No, I give us. Yeah, go as deep as you want. You can take as much time as you want as well
Like well, I have to because we do have 90 minutes and I musted it gets really complex
I'll probably need to write a book about this at some point, but please do
I ended up helping him clean his house because the guy's like doing chores at his house and we ended up, you know
Clicking and he's like, hey come to the church with me
Um, so I went to church with the guy. I had no problem with that
and that's when I
You know started to hear or get into
Um christianity somewhat
But I was at a private school when the pastor was teaching about lying and sin
And how have you ever told a lie?
Yeah, you remember that lie like really making you psychologically think about that bad thing that you did
Well, if you've told that lie, you've told another lie and what they really sold you on
Is that all those wrong things that you've done are still there?
Like they make you believe that those actions still
Are accountable on you because there are things you've done
before
But don't worry because this is kind of them. I mentioned this in a recent video
They're kind of selling you this disease
But like well, you didn't know you have this this disease. I'm pointing out like you were born
And you're in this corruptible flesh in your syndrome
And they gave me a guilt guilt trip as a kid in sixth grade
Great and sick come on out to be sound
Exactly and I ended up going down and I accepted jesus that day at the altar and I felt
Something like very powerful
Experience in my stomach. I had a warm sensation. I felt like I found it. I'm home
I can't tell you how many times I felt like I found it in my life, by the way
So yeah, it was that moment that I remember I'll never forget
And I started to really take jesus seriously
We relocated to Puerto Rico. We didn't go to church in Puerto Rico
We lived on a base in seba, which is near fajardo for those who don't know
It's about an hour from San Juan on the east coast on the east side of
Uh, Puerto Rico my dad was stationed there. He was special forces in the military
And so we're we're you know, just living life as kids
Playing truths or dare with the girls finding figure and things out about what it's like, you know
And I'm you know, I finally lose my virginity as a you know, teenager 13 14 years old
Was um hot and sick there you from euphemism or is it was like we actually like what shit we played with girls
Hide and go seek and what the point was like when you're hiding you find the girl and she finds you and you know
And like but you ought to be young
But we really were playing a game
But it was like a game included also figuring out
The birds and the bees and like we would do this stuff and truth or dare and all that
We really did those things and um, I got my heart broken because the girl cheated on me
With a guy who was like a bully in the high school and all that
So I was like, you know what screw that when I get back to north carolina because we were relocating back here
You know what? I'm gonna be this man whore. I'm gonna go around and I'm just gonna sleep with everybody
I'm gonna show her
And I came back and I got really really
devoted into the bible and christianity and like got serious about it and I didn't I said no girls
You know, I had drank alcohol a little when I was you know, kid
We get drunk occasionally. We'd sneak the alcohol from dad and
So so so I just need to get that so you went from I'm gonna sleep with everyone I can to
Actually, I'm going to be really devoted to the bible
Um, okay. All right. That's yeah, and I would go into
Extremes my whole life has been extremes
So I got really serious about it and committed and I was like no, you know what I found
I found satisfaction
in this religious worldview
and
I'm gonna paint this picture as we go on how this goes back and forth and what I think is going on now looking back
so
I'm serious and I'm going to church and this church is a king james version onlyist like that's the word of god
Um, if not, then why did god allow it to make it this far down here to give to us?
It's gotta be god
Exactly like who cares about the greek manuscripts god made sure he preserved his word and we got it
um, it was a woman pastor
We spoke in tongues
We believed in the spirit like gifts of the spirit and the holy spirit
We believe that you needed to be baptized in the holy spirit which meant
The evidence for being baptized in the holy spirit came with the gift of tongues and prophecy and other things
So if you weren't showing those gifts or you were acting like that was only for the first century
Well, then you're kind of saying the holy spirit was only meant for the first century
So we weren't accepting that we were we were definitely believing in miracles and demon possession
We would have days where we'd cast out demons on people like
It was kind of not because i'm nodding because this is all similar. I used to have really strong
Uh concerns that my wife had never spoken in tongues before and I was like
Well, you've got to be baptized of the water and the spirit and that's the sign and I used to like I didn't pressure her
But I felt I had this internal like oh
Oh, this isn't good like, you know
absolutely
I kind of feel bad. I just
I just relate to it so much and other people are saying the same thing in in the chat. Um
Thanks. Thanks so much. I've led to this recovery after each one thing. Yeah, so it's it's it's keep going
It gets juicier. Trust me. Don't go anywhere
And make sure you subscribe for real subscribe. Um
I there were times where I pressured my wife into making her feel like she's not saved
Without this, you know, there was times where I'd like push it on her and she'd go. This is so weird, honey. Like
No, this is not normal. This is weird
And I'd be like, it's not it's god. It's this bit, you know, and I was really convinced I believed it
well
I
Remembered girls and I remember bonfires with a few drinks and like enjoying life and not being such a religious dogmatic monk in high school
You know, like I legit was trying to be separated separated from the world
But I'm also in a high school with a bible at lunch
Reading my bible the only kid in high school who's legitimately reading a king james version only bible in high school
And I get a lot of compliments. You're a good-looking guy. Like what are you doing? You should be
Dating you should be like talking to girls and I'd be like, um, we don't have tomorrow
Yeah, you know, like I mean like legit sold that the end is near
Yeah, I I whipped out a magazine bible at school and said look at this Matthew 24
And I was like rumors of wars and rumors of like and I and I did the whole thing and I saw the looks of my friend's face
They were like, damn there are wars and there is feminine various places
And I got a few of them to come to youth group because of that. I was pretty yeah, but man
It's so similar. They call me captain christian. Oh, can you believe that man are prideful? Oh my gosh
That's evidence that we're in the last days, you know, um, yeah
So I believed it. I really did and I had dreams about the rapture and the end of the world
Fire come down from heaven like scary dreams where I woke up crying
and I was serious
And there was one dream when that fire happened and then like I closed my eyes at the last second because I knew I was
Going to die and I was like Jesus and then I opened my eyes
And I turned and there's this man with a feathered pin with his head turned away from me like I am you
writing and he's like
Derek
Everything's going to be okay
Oh, that's freaky. That's scary. And I was just like and I knew I'm okay. It's going to be okay
He's got me like, you know, like I really had vivid imagination about everything
and
There are christians I can guarantee you fundamentalists that would watch this right now and go
They really I'm not making this up. I'm absolutely telling you. This is what really happened
These are the dreams I really had
But the point is even after all of this experience
I could tell somebody this and you being someone who's probably not drinking the kool-aid. I'll call it
Someone who is just going to go Derek. I can interpret that dream and I can tell you the true meaning
Like there are people who do this to this day try to psychoanalyze or try to convince me
That that was real and it's really coming and you're you're someone special. You're chosen as an atheist
They do this still and they'll be like you're still a christian. You don't even know it
really like
anyway
so
I'm like all about this, but then I also feel like I'm missing out
I'm missing out on something that I feel completely drawn toward naturally
and
So I started to go to bonfires again and I didn't want to commit into too many serious like relationships
So I was just trying to have fun and enjoy it and I'm hooking up with I went through this phase where I'd call it
no strings attached phase
where it's just having fun meeting a few girls and
I met my wife
Which at that time I was just like, yeah, she's cute. Look at this. No strings attached. No strings attached
It's you know this I'm skipping quite a few relationships here
But I'm making a point and I'm skipping some years
But I'm making the point like I'd go back and forth back to Jesus
And then back to drinking and the bonfires and enjoying having fun and what comes normal and natural what feels right
And but then I have to come back
How old were you about this time when you met your wife?
Uh was 16
17 ish 16 17 ish
I think yeah 17 maybe I am um
a senior in my first
First half of senior year in high school
And I'm like, you know what I'm gonna try and get in her pants, you know, like whatever
Well, she wouldn't let me
And I was like hold on. I got to work harder. Like this isn't usually this difficult to try and have fun
Like what the heck I fell in love with her
Like I legit fell in love with her and she was authentic and it was like, okay
This is this is good. Like I'm I'm happy and I got her pregnant
And since I got her pregnant, I did the good Jesus thing, right?
It's a little backwards. I you know just fight it in my head like well, you know, like in my mind
I'm supposed to get married then have kids. Well, I got her pregnant and I'm a man of God
So I need to like marry her solidify it raise my kids have like seven or eight more like Abraham, you know and
Trying to repopulate the earth be fruitful multiply, right?
You need that white picket fence like you got to have it. Yeah, exactly and I was trying I was like, okay
We're gonna do this. We're gonna do this, right
But then I wanted to enjoy partying again and at this point I was smoking weed
Um, it wasn't just alcohol. I was popping ecstasy pills on occasional to to experience that and had a blast rolling
every once in a while and if you've never done it then you just can't
Relate I must admit but
There's not words you can really put together
to describe it, but anyway
I went through this phase and then I got so caught up doing this stuff
That I had to stop like I had to quit and in the back of my mind
I was always a Christian it was never like I was this and then I wasn't a Christian
I would get guilty and I knew from reading my bible and studying that like I was doing wrong
But I was still a Christian the worldview still had its grips on me
And I was pretty popular in high school
so this this little like going back and forth between
alcohol partying and
Jesus and the bible became a really difficult thing because when I'd go down that path of alcohol and partying and doing other things
I would get to a point where it would be harming. It would actually start to inflict harm on my body my health and things like that
So I'd realize I got to get right with Jesus again. I got to get right with God
and so
I'm felling my senior year in high school
And I go in there and I finally say I'm felling. I'm not doing good. I got to pull myself out
Can I come back and finish next semester and not let this not let this semester ding me?
Yes, you need to get your life together Derek and
You can come and finish. So I came back the next semester
absolute Jesus freak
I mean like I am
Reading my bible in every single class and I'm passing every single class. I'm in
I'm in algebra. I'm in I'm sorry pre-calculus
And and and I'm like flying through this class and reading my bible like somehow doing both
I mean, I'm on fire. But while I read the bible
I literally was there
I was there when he made Adam and Eve and saw like my imagination again
I saw how he did it
And then I was there when the flood came and I saw how that happened
And then I then I was on the mountain of God with Moses when he got the 10 commandments
And I was watching as he was passing by the cleft of the rocks between both of the rocks and saw God's back parts
I didn't know he saw his ass, but you know, like I didn't think that's what that meant
But now I'm like, okay. Well something's going on here
Um now looking back
But I really was there with the children of Israel as they went through these trials and and exile and coming back
And I was there when Elijah calls fire down from heaven at samson with the jawbone of an ass
The bible came to life for me
And I reread it and I'd cry reading it
I'd like get into the stories and then hear about the something that happened that was
Really deep and intense and I had this really sensitive
Feeling about something that was going on
When someone would repent and God would send blessings or something would happen
I for some reason I'd get so into it
And I I really remember my bible reading it from Genesis to revelation
Now when it got to the new testament the story
Just dropped to me
Christians are Christians because of the new testament in Jesus the story itself just was not impressive
It was confusing to me
That was the opposite. I can never get into the old testament to me. It was all just
Boring and I could never remember anyone's names or cared for the new testament and especially ax was just incredible
And the gospels and things
Wow, that's interesting. I I don't know what it was the the the Hebrew bible had a much more
vivid narrative to me and just kind of painted this
bigger broader picture
And the new testament repeated itself. Of course, you're reading multiple gospels
I'm reading each gospel because I'm doing what starting in matthew because they put that as the first
Then I get to mark and I'm like, hold on. We heard this already. It's what the heck is going on
Like it was very boring to me that it was continuously doing this and then the epistles. What am I reading?
Like a letter to somebody rebuking them because someone slept with their dad's wife and like
Like I
Didn't have any narrative
I never noticed this as a christian, but
It's a guess you've had on your we're talking about this before you we went live
But a guess you've had on uh francesca's david a capullo
She she mentioned that god isn't there in the new testament
Like he's not he's like he's kind of there, but he's like in the back room
but it's all about jesus and the
You know the disciples and stuff where god was
Up front and personal and there in the old testament
And it I never noticed until I left christianity and and look back. I was like, yeah, they're they're actually too very distinct
Like it's it's very different right the new testament. It's like you could see why marcion came up with what he did
I mean when you when you look into it, it's clear why he was able to do that and it was very convincing to so many people
um
I wanted to paint that picture just to say like I got really serious
really serious
And my life and I we had kids I passed I graduated high school
and i'm going to
Another church at this point. We stopped going into the completely crazy jibber jabberish
Rolling on the floor holy ghost k jv onus with the woman pastor who's like telling us that
jesus told her
That he will come back before she dies
Like legit and she's dead now by the way
Well, jesus went to come back and his disciples left time. So I mean exactly even thought that yeah
But we're but like i'm painting it like this picture as if where I was at at the time
And i'm trying not to like tell you what I think now of course as much as I can
Because i'm like jesus is going to come back and but I couldn't accept what she was saying anymore as it started studying the text
It just was really really weird some of the things she'd say
I'm going to calvary chapel
There's a pastor there and this pastor is preaching from john
And he says jesus said tear down this temple and I will rebuild it in three days
and um, then he says that uh, the jews said amongst themselves hold on this took us 40 years
To build
This is what the pastor said now I read my bible. I know my bible and I know it says 46
So like i'm such a like bible bible assist
That i'm like he he doesn't know how many years it said it took them to build the temple. It's 46 not 40
So
I'm like all right. Maybe I should become a pastor like I know my bible and I feel like this is my calling
I come up to him after church asking me says hey, there's a college down the road
Carolina bible college you should go get into it go to seminary become a pastor because I think you've got what it takes
It wasn't till a few months later. We found out that guy was cheating on his wife
with uh, many of the women in the congregation
because
this
Lady poor lady came up to me and my wife because my wife was wearing a very nice
Dress which had her skirt was a little short on it
But she said please start wearing the longer
skirt when you come in here
Now we thought what the hell's wrong with her at first, you know, and and then we come to find out. Well now we know why
because
She I'm pretty sure she had suspicions that her husband was checking out the congregation and was sleeping with many of the women
and he got caught
Cheating on his wife as the pastor of the congregation sleeping with all these girls
So I was like, okay now that makes sense
But I go to college and I'm one of those people that when I read something or I study I follow the evidence
It's always been my goal
As long as it's kosher as long as it keeps me
Still within that experience I had as a teenager
Which I knew was true
Jesus has to be yeah, it has to be true
There's no way that this isn't true. That's why I did my critique recently William Land Craig
William Land Craig's like
Clearly at the fundamental level there is an experience and an assurance of the Holy Spirit that he has
That's exactly what I had as a teenager
well
I'm going to college
I become a Calvinist because I start to hear about systematic theology and some of the arguments that paul makes in romans 9
And then I saw these passages. I just could not wrap my head around where god hates people
I have all i'm skipping a year or two here
But so calvinist just quickly for people who don't know what that is. What is a calvinist?
So john calvin was a reform a reformer someone who is a protestant reformer
A protestant is someone who's protesting against the catholic church practically
They're going against the catholic church in many ways. They think the catholics got it wrong
A lot of the the protestants believe that the catholics invented miracle stories about saints
They did all sorts of crazy stuff that was outside of what the bible is teaching
And so they want to get back to the text
They're big biblicists. They're about the text and john calvin just like augustine earlier is a predestinary
They believe that you know god predetermines things and the text and the scriptures
Talk about this as if god knows the future, but not only knows it
Is active in it god works everything for the good of those who love him to those who are called justified
glorified romans 8
My point is is
They believe that it's all part of god's plan
Yeah, but they don't believe in healing. Huh, they don't believe in healing. Do they
Most of them don't but there are charismatic calvinist out there. Okay, because i remember talking to
To some sort of a calvinist once over some beers and and i mentioned
I said, well, how do you get around the miracles that we have seen church that i see in my church and and he said
If your church is doing miracles i find them
Immoral for not being outside of a children's hospital every single day
Healing every single person who goes in there and that kind of shut me up
They got a point. I mean, let's be honest. They have a good point
I always thought that too. I'd struggled with is god still doing miracles or is is he done with miracles?
I struggled with that
Because as i became a calvinist, I thought maybe the gifts were have ceased
With the with the when we said when that which is perfect has come
Then these things will cease these gifts a prophecy and speaking in tongues, but love will never cease
We interpreted that which is perfect to be the canon
Yeah, because we're biblicists
Yeah, but it's like really is that what it meant now looking back or did this was this not talking with the parisia?
When jesus has come and put an end to all wickedness and brought in all good
Like there won't be a need to interpret everyone will know like it will be obvious
So there's a lot of things like that you won't need prophesying because it is here
The things we're waiting for is finally here and they call this term already but not yet
Okay, so they're like you're saved now
But he who endures to the end will be safe. Well, hold on. I thought you said I am safe
Yes, you are and you aren't
And and so like yeah, which is why they'll say you're you're one of those seeds that sprouted up quick derrick and did not take root
Oh, yeah
Scatter along the path or something. I
it's also I used to also struggle with um
With when there'd be people who were immoral who were clearly being led by god. So
Um, I don't know if you had this in australia, but but back in my space days. I had read on my myspace
I am so inspired by two people. One of them is marco googly moochie. Do you ever know about this guy?
Michael googly moochie
He was a pastor of um planet shakers church in melbourne
And then he became a youth pastor and then he became a band member whose song
Uh, you sung that song. Um, I believe you're my healer. Um healer song by hill song
And um, anyway, it turns out, you know, he was on stage with an oxygen mask and everything and turns out
He never had cancer. He told everyone he had cancer. He was dying of cancer. He shaved his head and everything
He didn't have cancer
He just turned out that he had he was addicted to porn and he stressed himself out so much
Trying to hide that that he would that he was losing his hair and stuff and then he started making up excuses about
dying of cancer
Um, and I remember being like so conflicted like how can god be moving through someone because he
God is clearly moving through someone when he's lying about he's like about being and then the answer to that was
I've got the answer for anyone who's interested. Um god used a donkey
So god can use anything right?
God uses pharaoh. I mean
Look at how he uses pharaoh, but he hardens his heart, you know, but he's still using him
So
I I see what you're trying to get at now. That's a whole another thing this whole time. I'm going to be very tmi here
this whole time with
addiction and jesus
and also
I have since puberty
Always watched porn like my whole life. I've always been someone who's watched porn
I struggled with this
Especially as I was religious because I would go down and get prayed for they'd lay on the hands
And I noticed like none of the leaders in these youth groups that were like they're laying on their hands
And I'd almost go down like every other day
Every other every third day sometimes I'd wait a day or two even though I should have gone down there
You know in my head and things like that because I was so embarrassed
because
naturally
totally naturally
I was
struggling with this flesh
And flesh is nature. You're just normal natural inclinations
And I go down there and none of these people ever needed to be prayed for and I thought to myself
Dang man, these guys are spiritual monsters like these guys. I'm spiritually amazing
I can't I don't know how do I get on their level like how do I get as spiritual as they are because they're obviously not suffering
Or struggling with the same thing that I am
Yeah
Do I have God's spirit? This really started to make me question. Am I really God's child?
Everyone around me all these people who are preaching and
Teaching introgens for Christ at pine forest high school where I graduated
We had a youth group thing and it was like a serious every morning we'd go in there
None of them needed the prayer for these things
They were the ones always laying their hands on people
And I always thought to myself wow
They don't struggle
I feel that so strongly as well like I
Watched born my entire life as well and I used to really struggle with shame and guilt around that to the point where
You know, like I would actually get physically I get I get physical symptoms
you know that I like it was I was in pain right like and uh, and
It was horrible
But what I what I've noticed is when I started talking really candidly to pastors about it and they would say, you know, you know
You know, I was set free from it or whatever. We're not awesome like oh, so you haven't looked at porn for like
Seven years or something they were going well, you know, it's on the cross and they would never answer the question
They said they started dancing around it every time I would ask them and I'm like and I'm thinking back to it now
I'm like these motherfuckers were probably just watching porn like not all the time
But they probably had slip-ups as we would call them and stuff
Or they did it and just somehow cognitive dissonance allowed them to just skip over it somehow
I tried to do that as well
I mean, I even was part of programs when I went to the Reformed Presbyterian church
I talked to the pastor about this they put me on like he paid for a program to where I could punch in my
IP
Address so that like if anything came up and I searched it
It would email one of my accountability partner guys in the church to see what I've been looking at
I mean there were articles I was trying to solve and I'm like I
Same I got around that but then my friend in the store something that took screenshots as well
So like it would take screenshots every 15 minutes and he could see a log and here's my accountability buddy like like is he sitting at home going
He said he actually said he actually said to me
It was quite shocking what I was seeing to be honest
but um, but to but to be to be honest, um and just a quick little plug
This isn't my main channel. This is a sufficient but on my main channel
We are doing a we recently did a hellcast a podcast with a bunch of panelists with we were talking about hell
Talk about getting over the fear of hell where hell's origins came from
But we are doing a new one in the future to talk about purity culture because one thing that I've noticed through doing deep drinks here
interviewing heathen queen interviewing
Hailey brook is that women had a very different
Type of purity culture that we did they were taught that they had to cover up
Or they were going to be they were going to make men stumble and men we were taught like
I'm almost certainly agree that we were almost predators that needed to like hold back our urges and we would have like
These accountability clubs to try and see how long we could go without like watching porn or masturbating
um, and then what happens is you get like a
16 year old boy who hasn't masturbated in two weeks and then he sees like one centimeter of cleavage on a lady at church
And he's like I'm gonna explode and then the lady's like
And then like it's like a self-perpetuating problem
and I love what uh heathen queen said which was
Not honoring the needs of your body and that really resonated with me
So in the future we're doing a panel on my channel david mcdonald
On purity culture, but keep going um derrick because this this is all just it's hit me exactly where
Very similar story. Yeah. Yeah. So cowboy 1000. Yes. It was covenant eyes
Yep, just to say in the chat and and we I did that for a while, but when I had the urge
I didn't use that computer. I just went on my phone and did the freaking incognito mode and I was good to go
Like nobody could see an email. So I didn't want to look at but I also didn't hide it
I mean that's the difference is I think I was really trying to be honest
um
it was
It was really tough dealing with that and then also dealing with how come I'm struggling with this addiction
my father I forgot to mention is an alcoholic
And uh, he's sober now
But the point is is like I saw him get sober and then he'd struggle and he'd get good
My mom and him would fight every time all the time when he was drunk
And it would get violent sometimes. Um, you know, he'd black out and not even know what he was doing
Years later, someone asked me how do you know you forgave your father for the things that he did?
And I told him well I became him
And that's how and I know that when I became him and I became what he was to us
And how I became like that to my family
I I know I didn't mean to do these things. I really did not
So there's this moment in paul where you hear him say like the things I
Don't want to do I do and the things I do I don't want to do that kind of idea
There's some truth to that in some respects to just human nature
But there's like where do you cut off? What is okay and what isn't okay?
That we should you know be able to do
And I think that this fight against the flesh that paul has is really self-destructive
Just pointing out as a conclusion
Okay, I'm a reformed calvinist
I have I think the second coming of jesus is any day now
I think the end is near
And my pastor at the church the one who got me on covenant eyes was like, hey
Have you ever heard of amillennialism?
You should you know read this book a case for amillennialism by a lady named kim something
I became an amillennialist because there were some good points that were brought up in the book that I had never heard
And it made me think primal dispensationalism is just not cutting it. It's got some weird tim le hay
You know
Left behind series type stuff that I believed for so long
And then I went from that and it wasn't long a couple months maybe before I got into partial
Preterism for those who don't know what this is everything. I'm telling you is part of the subject called eschatology
It's the in times the study of the last days. I believe we're living in the last days at the time
So I'm studying it and I'm I never took it serious
Why because well you study the last things
As your last thing you don't make that the first thing you study
That's the last thing you study is this study of last things people put that stuff on the shelf
And don't even realize how damaging
It is to the christian faith like it is one of the reasons that I was like
Yeah, this isn't true anymore like I realize it now
Oh, yeah, yeah, it took time it took time
I became a partial preterist for a year two years max rc. Sproul
Kenneth gentry gary namar all of these partial preterists which
Preterism teaches that there are things that are bible prophecies that are fulfilled
And partial means some bible prophecies already happened, but there's still some for the future
So we're waiting on the final resurrection. We're waiting on the final judgment in the second coming of jesus
That's all we're waiting for everything else is pretty much fulfilled
And I came across full preterism
I won't bore you to death and go deep into this, but it is a heresy that puts you outside of orthodoxy
It is the teaching that jesus second coming happened in the first century
Ah, yeah, I've heard that. Yeah, okay. People aren't waiting for jesus to come back. It already happened
Yeah, he's already come back. Okay, and the reason you come to this kind of position is because you're a biblisist
So like you can go to a pastor you can go to a church you can go to a priest you can go to any christian church
If you're a biblisist, whatever they say is
You know, you want to accept them you want to trust them, but really what does the bible teach?
This is being a biblisist and this is what I was
I wanted to understand christianity and the best way to do that isn't through church fathers
Who are kind of interpreting things in their own ways later on?
It was
What does the new testament teach?
And that's what I wanted to get at and when I found out jesus himself promised
That he was going to come back before some of his disciples would die
Some of them standing there would taste death
And that they would see the glory of the like of him coming with the angels and repaying each man according to their deeds
Etc the second coming would happen
Once I saw that that had to happen or jesus would fell because he said so
Well, I believe in jesus remember my teenage experience
So you're left with no choice
Jesus either lied
That can't be true
That cannot be true. He he lied or he was wrong and that's impossible because I know
Like William Lynn Craig talks about that assurance of the holy spirit. I know that this is true
That's the presupposition based on my experience as a teenager
So now I have to interpret the bible in a way that makes sure jesus doesn't fell
And what ends up happening jesus came back
So I was talking to to other christians in the presbyterian church about this
And I was telling them how do you answer this? Look at what jesus said here read the bible boom
How do you answer this and they'd like
I can't
I don't know what to say that that yeah, it says what you're saying. It's saying
And I got called into the church
Five elders sat me down
And they said don't speak
Listen to what we have to say and they warned me first of all about the dangers of heresy and about hellfire and things like that
Also the idea of making others stumble and that this is a heresy that you're teaching
And that pretty much you need to cut the crap because this is not okay
And this goes against the creeds this goes against orthodoxy
And that I wanted to defend myself. I felt like I was martin luther where he was like
Yeah, please tell me you nailed please tell me you nailed something to the front door of that chit presbyterian church
No, I felt like I wasn't perfect opportunity
Yeah, it would have been but I didn't feel like I was welcomed at that point
I felt very ostracized and I said, okay
I'm just I'm not coming back. I'm not yeah
And they they later on when I gave a testimony at a full preterist church in new york, I was still a believer
Um, the pastor saw it and wrote me this long letter about how I lied
and said you're a liar
Because we did not excommunicate you for full preterism
Saying the second coming of jesus already happened. We've excommunicated you for your absence
of attending
and it's like
That's like saying god created all humanity
And the calamities of the world and this garden and allows the snake in there to cause the man
He knows is going to fall
To fall in all the chaos hell rape disease and everything that happens on planet earth
But god's not uh
responsible for any of that
it's like
It's like secondary responsibility. It's clear one thing that
One thing that triggers me beyond like
Because I'm very much like you where if something doesn't work it doesn't work like it's like it's like you can't make
One plus one equal five like it equals two like you can't like so I would always it's always triggered me
I I never understood when when when christians would just
man
Like blase or just lie. Oh, oh the scripture says well whatever and like move on and go to their youth group
like it
When I was a christian it didn't make sense when because I was looking into those same
Arguments as you and I would talk to the pastor and he'd said to me
Oh, you won't need to worry about any of that stuff. You're doing ministry college next year
As if like these issues that I had was like, well, I've got a ministry college and I'll be in the ministry and all be good
like
It blows my mind and then also the dishonesty like I don't know how christians can lie like I have I
The people that lie the most to me in my life are christians
Like my christian friends and family a little white lies, but I'm still like how how how are you lying?
So like how do you just lie like that? It doesn't make sense to me. Like, you know, you're going to hell, right?
You know, it's like a it's like you're you're you're sinning, right? That's a sin, right?
Like you do you want to do understand that like it's so weird one breath
They tell you you need jesus to be saved and that sin will separate you from
God and you go to hell and then the other breath they tell you like a white lie like or or any type of lie
It's I it's perplexing like I don't understand it
And that's the rant
That's the yeah. No, no, no, it's a good. It's a good point. I think we we have a natural tendency to lie
We want to tell stories. It's built into our nature. It's built into our evolution
We're storytelling creatures. We're social creatures. We're meant to tell stories and
I didn't know all this. I mean at this point in my life
I didn't believe in evolution like I didn't think it was a scientific fact even though it's called a theory. Yes
I think it's a fact
Um, I did not believe the earth was you know older than 7 000 years
I'm not gonna say I was dogmatic on it
But I was like all I was kind of in this bubble of well the bible says, you know, therefore it's true
Um, I didn't try to find a way to see that genesis might not be ex nihilo
All of that stuff comes later
It was it was me getting ex communicated from there where I was able to kind of do my own study
Do my own research and investigate
And I relapsed throughout these years. I mean I've I've skipped so so much
In terms of the relapse that comes back and then get back on get clean gets over
Come back and I was going to AA and NA throughout these processes
And I was having a hard time because they would tell you at AA and NA that you have a disease that this is a disease
And while it it is considered medically a disease
It's not in the same exact sense
What we think of when we say disease like I mentioned earlier
I'm allergic to break out and handcuffs
An allergy we imagine is like a reaction where it's like, oh my gosh, I've got you know rash or my throat's closing or something
But there's allergies in which people react in funny ways like alcoholism where they can't put down the drink
They keep drinking more and I think it breaks down to how the alcohol
turns into
How your body's breaking down the alcohol versus someone who's not an alcoholic
And there's ways in which it breaks down differently
Which there's some science behind and I'm like, okay
I I think I need to go and study
Why I'm addicted?
Why do I keep drinking or why do I keep wanting to pop?
Opiates because I was doing opiates on and off eight to ten years at this point
It went from bichenin to percocets percocets to oxys when they were crushable
I started snorting the oxycodones the the oxycotin if you will
And they they made a new formula where you couldn't crush them anymore because you want the quickest fastest effects
you want to feel the best high
and uh
I'd swallow them and I'd try to find ones I could crush and I'm telling you like the whole thing
All still being a christian
But not feeling like I'm living my life right for god and that I needed to try and fight this thing and come back
And I'd have like a religious experience every time I came back
Like maybe I got saved for sure for sure this time because you know like
You're really battling this thing
And they would always tell me it was your spiritual. It was you being not spiritually fit
It was um, you're fighting against spiritual powers and principalities and things like that. It's not a disease
It's a moral issue
They always brought this thing like it's a moral issue
And that's where it can be get dangerous. That's what church can be really fucking dangerous. Yeah advice like that
It's a medical mental health issue 100 but I didn't know that
Till I started to go to AA and NA and this is why
While I don't agree with a lot of things that NA and AA do
um, it helped me
Out the gate it was a program that actually helped me because it allowed me to
Believe whatever I wanted about whatever it is. I called my higher power
And yet I could still try to just be myself. You can't walk into church
and um
Like I was watching this testimony recently and it kind of cracked me up. It's kind of sad but it's
To me it cracked me up because I heard these stories all the time
There's this woman who stands up. She's got the microphone. She's I was living in sin
I was sleeping with all these men every night
Now I had my tongue up on his balls. I mean in church
And she goes and she said balls not like balls. She was like balls
Like really long as she's doing it. She's and she looks over at the guy and he's like
grabs the microphone and starts to walk up there
And you can tell like everybody was like did she just say what I think she just said notice she shouldn't have been saying that there
But in AA or NA
You can go in there
And people will listen to you even if it is like come on you went
That's TMI like you didn't have to say all that but sometimes people do and you go. Yeah, okay. This is wrong
This is this is a church
I like to be a part of because you can go there and you'll hear people talk about how bad they were
Selling their bodies for drugs
Doing things that you won't hear them say in church
And I thought this is real
But there's still that higher power thing
So I still had the higher power
And it reminded me of a recent interview that uh, jordan peterson or debate he did with uh, some lady
I don't know her name on god and they asked the question out front. It was on that, uh
Christian radio show program
Unbelievable or whatever it is and he's like can we live life without god?
And she says absolutely without a doubt and then jordan peterson says
Absolutely not but then he redefines god. Oh, yeah, it's the same. Yeah, you can't give up cigarettes without
Without spiritual intervention. Yeah, what like yeah, it's yeah
Well, he literally says in it
He goes the thing that you acquire the most and put as the highest place in your thinking and what you aspire to
That's your god and we all have him like notice how he completely redefined what god even means
Yeah, and if that's your god, then technically I
Worship and believe in nature
Naturalism so like if you want to be technical my god is existence and what actually is
Not supernatural not metaphysical beings if you wanted to find it that way sure go ahead and I guarantee you jordan peterson would say
Yep, that is your god
Okay, fine, dude
Does that make you feel good that you have to put god into every category sure go for it if you really badly
He's a fun guy. He's a fun guy like he
It's like it's like when you are when someone goes like so do you believe jesus rose from the dead and he's like
Take me two days to answer that question. You like I thought it was a yes or no, but two days. Okay. All right
What about but he is interesting to listen to but you know keep going
So I I um, I realized that I didn't understand about my anatomy
I didn't understand what was going on with my brain
So I learned I listened and learned to scientists that we're talking about how our brain and the wiring in our brain
Our frontal lobe cortex in the midbrain. There's neurons that are misfiring
And we're constantly chasing a high which is making us make bad decisions. I caught some charges over the years from
The theft I stole to get my addiction to keep my addiction going things like that
So like it got really really bad and ugly for a long time with me
I mean I had a business that went under the ground. I sold all my equipment. I had to start another business
I did the same thing again like I have
Just not knowing how to live my life
I was losing control and I kept going. Am I god's child like never did I blame god?
I never had any animosity. I always thought it was me. I'm just this creature
that is just a wretch
and
I never thought anything negative. I was just responding to iron charity or just so that uh iron knows
Which irons in my chat all the time too, but like I wanted to make that clear because
Every time I got saved or I got clean. I would thank god. I'd like, you know what you were always there the whole time
I went astray. I did this I went off
and um
I might as well get to
to the climax of this whole thing
And I relapsed I was doing really well for a long time
I relapsed and I was doing the painkillers and sniffing those and then sniffing what's called oxymorphone's
Where they call them opanus
And then one day I couldn't afford one of the pills. They were $80 a piece
$80
I couldn't afford it. So I went in. How long was the hauling?
Um at this point my tolerance was so high that I probably get like six hours of like filling buzz
You know
But uh, I went in on a pill with somebody we split it and I was so used to a higher amount
It didn't do anything for me
so
The dope dealer who would sell it was like I've got
I've got what they call a boy or dog food if you will it's heroin
And I'm like, oh hell no, I'm not doing heroin. Like are you kidding me?
There's a stereotypical like we all know not to do that. It'll kill you kind of thing
But I could do all these other pharmaceuticals and whatnot, but not heroin
And I was just
anxious and withdrawing in the extreme pain enough
That I was willing to do a small bump just a just a teeny weeny little
And I felt euphoria and it was more powerful than what I had been doing with the painkillers and I was like
This is cheaper
This is getting me where I want to be and it's it's like easier to access
So I started sniffing it in a
The months of sniffing it and not being able to afford to get that next high
At some point I could only get like ten dollars worth which would have barely maybe made me unsick if that
And it's very complicated and difficult to tell someone who does not understand what addiction is and how difficult opiate addiction really is
To express everything that comes to this and I wish I could take a chip out of the back of my head plug it in
So that they could just live it in their mind just for ten seconds
And then they can pull it out because I don't wish it on anybody, but I do wish people really
understood how
Insane and how difficult this is and oh the idiot he should have just not been choosing to do it
He should have never started to begin with I I started from a prescription from getting teeth pulled out. I mean like
there's all it's not
Nefarious intentions every time people get into this stuff and they get trapped. It's not just this simple easy choice
Choices have very difficult
options, it's not easy to do
so
I am the
It's victor. It's like they're victor like you see like a criminal breaking into a car or stealing a car
Like they're like if they're doing that to get high they're actually like it's hard to look at them as a victim
But they are actually a victim like they're not they're not making choices
Yeah, yeah disconnect that I was telling you the wires in your decision-making process from the midbrain to the frontal lobe cortex
There it's not your decision. Okay. Let me put it another way
I want to paint it this way because this is better if you are starving. Would you still to eat?
100 would you go take an apple from the local grocery store walk through the store and eat what you're hungry and then
Okay, I'm a I'm a very vegetarian or vegan and when people ask me the pig question on the island
You know, would you kill a pig on the island? Yeah, yeah, I'd sort of throw it for sure
I'll also drink a big glass of hot piss, but I'd choose water every time
But but yeah, I just there's a lot of things I do this to survive if I need to yeah exactly
It gets into instinct
It literally
Addiction becomes an instinctual process. It literally taps into sex
food
water
Like all of the absolutes that you need to survive it becomes fused into that
So you feel like well, I know that's wrong, but I have to survive
It becomes instinctual
And it becomes a pattern that you don't know how to break
So now you're making decisions and doing things that you would do if you were starving or you needed to hydrate or
Or you were wanting you you were obsessively needing sex or whatever it might be
I don't it's like it's like one low layer below that that matters those hierarchy of needs
It's like it's below housing and and all that stuff
It's like you need like it feels like you need it more than anything
Right, that's why people I'm guessing why people end up in like crack houses and stuff
Because it's actually taking more of a priority than their living conditions 100% 100% and and I don't know how to convey that I just
Research it so yeah, so now I'm shooting up
Right to the point first time I did it
I was having like a panic attack because I was worried I was I was gonna die from this first time
And I did a small amount. I shot up heroin
And uh, it gave me a euphoria like I have never experienced a rush a warm
Warm sensation of euphoria throughout my whole body
Almost instantly once it takes about 10 seconds
It hits the vein the blood pumps to the heart. It gets to the brain. Boom. You're off to the races
And I was doing heroin for about a year year and a half
I was struggling so bad
I had dss called me the deep dps whatever the whatever the services are in your local area to try and have kids get taken from their parents
Because someone called them and said he is really bad off on drugs
And they have three kids and I'm living in this house. My wife's practically raising the kids
I'm trying to hide syringes
I'm completely trapped in a dark place and I'd be laying in bed next to her
Like nodding and she would nudge me because she'd think I'd stop breathing and I was out
Maybe I wasn't gonna wake up
And then I wake up and I'm like and she'd get angry at me and she'd go to sleep crying every night
like I was gonna die and um
I remember
accepting my fate
like thinking
This is it
I'm dead
You know what I mean? I'm not gonna make it out of this
And I just was like
I'm dead. I'm not I'm not this is it
Fucking dead
And I don't know how to get out of this shit
And it was the realest shit. I've ever gone through in my life because I just I realized I'm worthless
Like this is my mind at the time
I'm worthless. I'm a piece of shit
And nobody wants me
and
I wish I could break free, but I don't know how
And nobody understands where I'm at
Like it was so bad
I don't know how to put it, you know
and um
I remember I was feeling so bad that I made up a story about my about my dope dealer saying that they were gonna shoot up
My family because they loaned me 140 dollars in heroin
And uh, my mom was panicking because I literally called harassing for hours to try and convince her that this is true
So she could give me enough money
So I didn't feel sick anymore
And I wanted to get a high. I didn't just want a little amount. I was so depressed. I wasn't even living at my house anymore
My wife kicked me out. So I'm living on couch to couch going from house to house and I'm just trying to survive
and um
My mom finally said I'll give it to your brother because I don't trust you with it
Kurt also struggled with addiction too, but that's his story to tell not mine
And um, I get the high
And I said she said if you I'll do this for you
If you go to this lady who's in recovery's house to get clean off drugs
and I was like
Easy I'll do it
So I go there and I'm thinking to myself the whole time
I'm gonna come back to you. Don't worry heroin. I'm gonna come back to you
Like it was part of me
And and I couldn't imagine I was it's a weird like I want to quit. I'm worthless
I can't but then it was also like I it gave me it fulfilled me and gave me more
feeling and and and uh
The experience was stronger than the holy spirit
Experience I got from christianity
You see it was a god that I worshiped that was stronger than the god. I was worshiping before
That kind of experience because it was based on my experience
And um, I go to the lady's house my phone stops working
Like this is a long story, but I was trying to be able to access a dope dealer to maybe bring me a 20 bag
or something
And it didn't work
And I'm like starting to come out of the fog at this lady's house my mom and dad came over
And I'm I've mythologized if you go to my recovery channel
When I talk about this stuff. I mythologized it almost right out the gate
And made it about something in the universe looking out for me and stuff like that
Like I really told the story
And I conflated evidence to make it sound like the universe and god and all of this stuff is really
Something is actually, you know doing this for me
And it wasn't just me but the stars lined up, but
I'm over her house withdrawing and my mom comes over and she says to me
While we're sitting at the table and I'm very vulnerable
Derek
I love you
Son and I'm a mama's boy
I'm like, I know mom. I know, you know, but I'm also like cold
I have a hardened heart. I really feel like that like I legit felt
Tough and and just like there's no way these people can love me. They can't care about me. Look at what the hell have I done?
I've stole they even tell you I've stole over the years tens of thousands of dollars for my parents
I have done
Unbelievable things that you're just like there's no way
And then mom says
No, son, you don't understand like you really don't understand
I love you
I really really love you
And it and it started to choke me up like I realized that my mom really does love me
And then the lady irritated me and I went to the room and I started withdrawing some more watching
How people make bongs or something on like Netflix or whatever
I just did just a like time pass because you're insane
And I started going to AA again
My wife supported me the whole time
I'm trying to get back
Right on my feet with the best I understand of things and I'm like I don't want to use drugs
So I'm five days off heroin and I opened my phone and I'm watching youtube videos of this kid
Who was withdrawing as well on youtube he documented it and then he made it to 30 days
And I said if he can make it to 30 days
Then I can make it to 30 days
I can make it and if I can make it to 30 days, I might just have a chance at beating this thing
I had two years sober from alcohol on a previous run
And then I relapsed
Like I can do it. I went two years. I can do this
So I started the document and that's where you see my day five video
It's like almost got a million views day seven video has like a million three four hundred thousand views
I'm seven days off heroin. My teeth are butter color yellow
I look like a 60 year old Justin Bieber
I hear that a lot in the comment section
And I'm but I'm excited because I have hope that I can make it
Went to AA talked about a higher power didn't know what it was. I just I just thought maybe it's the universe
Maybe it's not jesus, but the universe. I know a lot about jesus, but
Maybe I got to try something different and maybe I've been wrong and it started to learn about things that were outside of just christianity
Were outside of just the bible
I heard a parable that I've used a lot
where it's not written in any holy book, but
God's going to make man and satan overhears it and he hears god say man is going to be ambitious brilliant driven goal orientated
It's going to be like me
And so satan says I got to hide I got to hide god from man
So he thinks about it long and hard. He says I'll hide god beneath the mountains under the rocks of the earth
He'll never find him there
Then he thinks man's ambitious goal orientated intelligent
They'll find a way to remove the rock
Unearth the dirt and find god
Oh, I know what I'll do. I'll hide god beneath the oceans under the sand of the sea
They'll never be able to find them there
Man's ambitious driven. He'll create an apparatus find a way to get beneath the water sweep away the sand and he'll find god
I can't hide god there
He thinks long and hard and says
I'll hide god. I got it. This is the one. I'm gonna hide god inside
Of every individual
And they'll always be searching the world
Always be seeking and looking for god and never take one moment and stop
And look inside and say
It is I
It's me
And that at that parable that little like story
I felt like I found god
Like what god really is and I realized that it was me
And I that was enough and it was like you have what it takes
You know the two footprints in the sand you go into a lot of these a a rooms and in a rooms
You see the it's there's religious contestation. They don't want it to be about jesus, but a lot of them are
Let's be honest in america a lot of it is
No, it definitely is. Yeah, you see the two footprints
And I carried you
when you couldn't
Bro, there's two footprints because they're your feet
Oh
They're your feet and I realized it was me
And I finally realized that it wasn't my spiritual malady. I wasn't an evil person
I
Wasn't this bad human
Yeah, we do bad things, but I knew that I was sick
And it had nothing to do with what I've been taught
What the bible is saying
about these issues
I knew there was some science behind this
And I knew hundreds of other people who got clean and they were the greatest people
Some of the greatest people I ever met they got their lives together. They empathize
They know what it's like to suffer and they're like, all right, I get it
So that that led me down this path of
I was willing to question all of these experiences
I had out the gate
And I know those experiences about jesus and that church were real were authentic experiences
But they wanted me to attribute that experience with divine with jesus with god with something more
And I found people like darin brown
Who's the mentalist he's he's
Yeah
Yeah, he's he's crazy
Did you ever see that clip that I played on the on william lane craig's?
respond video that I did
uh, I might have
but
I I think I did but the clip that got me was the miracle for sales one the miracles for sale clip where he go
Where he's healing people in the street, right?
Is that is that the one or is it a different one? It's it's a different one
I I literally feel if you wouldn't mind I really feel like I want to play this one part of it
You won't get any worry. You'll be able to monetize this if yeah, but it is absolutely gold and and if you go watch the full episode
It tells you so much. It really does. Let me share my screen here
Um, I'm gonna pull this down real fast bear with me. I know everybody in the chat
You're gonna want to see this if you haven't seen it already
I think it's relevant
And this would be actually a good time to mention to to make sure you go subscribe to myth vision
I mean the dude you got 50,000 52,000 subscribers for a reason you just pump out amazing content
um, and uh, you know, so make sure you check out the stuff and also everything that
Um, that derrick is mentioning is um his videos of your addiction and all that
I'll be putting in the description after the fact. So if you want to come back here if you come fun, they'll be there, but yeah
Do you remember me to share your screen? Yeah, if you can okay?
Okay, so this this video recently I did on william lynn craig
But this this made more sense to me. We can make anything make sense if we try hard enough
But this didn't take a lot of trying to realize what I think was going on
Has done this and he has made
scientist
Do you want to grow your youtube channel? You should consider getting you should subscribe to our channels
Okay, so real quick just to give the context
In this episode darren brown is converting an atheist who is a scientist
He's literally testing something to show you
How we are prone to believe in these type of things and it doesn't take much to assume agency beyond
What we already experience so it's very easy to assume agency or to go to believe in a god
And so here's darren brown and what he says
Become believers in a power greater than themselves
By tricking them into it
psychologically and emotionally
Here's a short little snippet of that scene from darren brown's clip
You should go watch the full video it is in the description
But he tells you from the outset that he is going to make these people believe
And he knows how to get them psychologically to do it
And even once she knows that he tricked her she still is
Kind of damaged by that and doesn't know what to do with the experience
Over us, but how do we make it a reality in our lives? We need to personify it
We hope that this force is strong and wise and loving and all the attributes found in a classic father figure
The first technique I'm going to use on natalie is to elicit feelings of this powerful father figure
Which later on I can get her to attach to the idea of god
So I'm going to use this innate tendency to see an agency at work to help give natalie her conversion experience
I'm going to do it by asking questions and then subtly suggesting the idea that a plan could be at work
I've it's actually really really interesting talking to you. I do think there are
so many beliefs and
I suppose new experiences things that are new and surprising that could literally be sort of right in front of us and we don't even quite
register that are there
Why is there another ad?
How annoying. I know I didn't even put it here
Oh
What do you think about that? Okay, I'm gonna stop it there and just just
I think it's necessary to point out that
This woman's experience
Was legit and if you go and see how he made it
Become an experience and all he literally taps into her experience with her father
Her her relationship with real people that she has real
actual world experience with and takes that experience and applies it
To a father figure agent
Some father figure overseeing her life as an agent and he's an atheist and she's an atheist
But she doesn't know that he's an atheist
So he tricks her then brings her on the show at the end and you're gonna want to watch that if you haven't
People laugh at me. Goal. You're taking a show and you think this is good evidence. It's a show. It's an entertainment
Yeah, it is entertaining
But this is a legit guy darren brown who's actually doing these things to show you how the mind works how the human
Works and it goes back to that example when I started studying the science behind my addiction
And then I started reading books like why we believe in gods
Just read the book. There's a book out there on amazon. Why we believe in gods a scientific approach
and all of the natural phenomena
that go into
Why we believe in gods?
That
started to make more sense religion Jesus
Drug addiction all of these things started to make more sense
Approaching it scientifically with natural explanations
Then it ever did in the magical thinking that I once was in
When you weigh out the two there's no comparison and the scientific approach actually had more accurate or better
Conclusions better
Results
Because I actually was able to see what was going on and it divorced it from some moral
You're a horrible or bad individual. You're a wicked person or get out of my face
No, that doesn't help. Hey like I I went to therapy after
Deconstructing and the big thing that my psychologist would point out was
I would say like I you know had a bad thought or I'd say this I did this it was bad or whatever and he said
He goes you don't use the word bad. He's like he's not helpful to your goals and I was like, okay
And and that was that was he's like think you can't frame it as bad
It's not helpful for your goals because but the whole process of shame and bad and thinking horrible
That doesn't it doesn't do anything to help the
The process, you know, I mean like doesn't help you get better
In anything that's true. It doesn't I I must just say one more thing on this topic is this
I felt like
My my relationship with Jesus my my religious experience my spiritual life
Was another addiction
It was another way of feeling and experiencing and fulfilling those those
Things that I got out of drug addiction as well
From this religion. I was constantly wetting my appetite with these with these things, but they were harmful
Mmm, they were not good. They were not healthy
It is not healthy to tell people something's wrong with you because you watch pornography
or you know or
Your there's you are having addiction so bad that you can't be god's child or you don't have the spirit of god
Why don't you just surrender? Don't you realize god's want god's the one who's working here?
Uh, you're fighting it with your cold heart
Like there's all sorts of problems that start to come up with people who are suffering with these things. So
I used to ask people because like, you know, I
I
I think I struggled well. I struggled a lot with pornography
Addiction or addiction. I watch porn right like we I called addiction at the time, but like
And I and I would I would go like what do I do like help me like help me like to to people and I said
You can't you can't use your own flesh. You've got to use the power of god. I'm like I'm trying like remember one time
I was coming back from preaching at a church a rural church and I came I was coming back
I was driving back and I spent and the pastor that told me I had to do it in god's strength said
Are you praying in tongues? And I said, oh and you go, I go. Yeah, I do and he goes. Well
How long and I said he goes because he goes he doesn't really I don't I find that it doesn't really get you in the
Middle until about 30 minutes
So I remember driving back and I was just in the car
Yeah, yeah speaking in tongues
And eventually you get the rhythm and it starts sounding more like tongues
But you know, I was doing that the whole way back and then after 30 minutes. It's like, yeah. Yeah
Fuck yeah, like
you know, I mean like and one thing that one thing that gets me and um is you know
Humans seem to and this is just a random mistake humans seem to
Accept that optical optical illusions are a thing or audible illusions are a thing, right?
And we accept hypnosis as a thing, right? Like people can be hypnotized and stuff
but
We never consider the idea that sometimes maybe the process of what's happening in some churches or some religious ceremonies
is a process of emotional emotional
Illusions or some form of hypnosis and stuff and that would make sense, right? Because sometimes you're in some religious ceremonies
And not everyone is experiencing the same thing and if people are telling you god's in the room
What kind of person?
Could have their have their walls up so much so that god couldn't get through them if he's literally in the room
Like or the spirit is moving or the shamans
Uh are getting the the spiritual goblins out to grab you like what who can?
Not experience it if it's actually happening like you I don't buy this
to me it makes a lot more sense that
It's some form of illusion hip hip not a we don't understand. I don't know. You know, it's it's something
visceral
non-visceral
you know
Anyway, I
One thing I wanted to say that you brought up about the speaking in tongues thing that really got me like what the heck
Is that seen from tropic thunder comes to mind like
You know never go full retard man
It literally makes you feel like I feel like Ben Stiller where he's like, you know
Yeah, like I was playing the act so much that I actually started feeling stupid
Like I started to actually feel like maybe I'm literally stupid
I'm trying to use the the nicer word than the one used in the video
Um, but like and he's like, oh, yeah fought in the bubble baths and stuff like that
I mean like you're in the car driving and you're like
You're not even thinking like it's just oh man
If anyone if anyone wants to see a good example of this in mainstream tv
Check out nathan fielder's new show the rehearsal
There is a lady in that in the second and third and fourth episode that is
Spot on with like an extreme version of many of the people in my church and you know, oh, we don't celebrate halloween
You know the mick google is run by satanists and like in all that kind of you know everything, you know
But anyway, um, let's be on the point
What I we were going to go into a bit of a deep dive into
Like everything that you know, but what I'm going to ask people to do is if you've got questions for derrick
I've got a couple questions first, but you've got a couple questions for derrick start asking them
Ask them ask away and then I'll
Um, I'll answer them
Uh, I'll answer him sterical answer him. It's 230 for me. All right. Give me a break. Uh, 230 a.m
so, uh first one though, and this is very serious questions. So you've
you've
I'm doing a hard right turn here, but you've interviewed many people
Mythosists people who critique mythosism people at resurrection barterm and milling people, but you've never really
I've never heard you make a hard stance on the real important issues of the bible
So I was just wondering if you could explain this to me. Um, so due to oronomy 23 one
If a man's testicles are crushed or his penis is cut off. He may not be admitted to the assembly of the lord
And another verse to just bring up
If two men are fighting and the wife of one man comes to rescue her husband from the assailant
And she reaches out and seizes him by his private parts. You should cut off her hand
My question is why is due to oronomy always talking about people's nuts
There well, obviously you go back far enough and sex is in every one of these ancient new eastern cultures
There's like a major thing even the gods have sex god himself has sex which francesca star brakapulu's book talks about
Yep, everyone go get this this is the this is the signed version
I spent two weeks pocket money to get it all the way over from uh from the uk
nice
Yeah
Yeah, I mean sex is huge
Uh, it goes into all the cultures. It's in the language and she points that out in the book
So I think being able to
Multiply and having your genitals be intact and everything worked fine. That's like the biggest thing
I mean, they even thought the man's the one who actually produces the child and women are just like the
I'm going to plant my seed. My seed will grow which is the human
So the seed is what the man has there's a lot of reasons why and it's an extremely outdated
Backwards misogynistic approach to the world around us. But um
That would be my answer
priest needed other balls intact
So I I just googled craziest bible verses and found two that I thought were funny and you actually gave a real answer to that
I wasn't expecting that. I thought we would just laugh about it, but but thank you
Um, I have a I I want I want to do this rapid fire
Being right. Okay. So you used to be a mythicist. You're not a mythicist anymore
No disrespect to any mythicists. God this engineer is a friend of mine. Love john, but
What do you think of mythicism?
Is it true? Was it not true? Like what where where do you lean at the moment? If it's a spectrum
Where are you on that spectrum? Yeah, I leaned there was a guy
Um, and it comes down to some fundamental issues that I personally think I get the mythicist position
And the problem is we have paul's letters and how do you interpret some of the data in paul's letters?
I think there was a man named jesus who was crucified who was then deified
It wasn't long just like I mythologized my own recovery story a few weeks after I actually got clean and sober
I can't imagine that they didn't do that with a guy like jesus
Um out the gate
They're already mythologizing this guy and they had experiences of him after he's dead and by the way the most common
Thing that happens in reality go and study the statistics on this
Is when you talk about people who have experiences of gods or religious experiences or Elvis appearances things like that those happen
Those happen. Oh, I saw tupac Shakur. I experienced him where he came and visited me
The most common experience that happens that is like that is a post-mortem experience with a loved one
Psychologists talk about this all the time
And they really think that they are seeing and hearing or feeling or being touched by a loved one who's deceased
So I I think there was a guy
And these are extremely superstitious jews who think the end is any moment now
jesus probably taught an apocalyptic end the kingdom of god was coming soon
And here they are in cognitive dissonance coupled with their experience
Now applying it to this jesus figure who they believe any noble righteous person in the greco- roman world
If you're holy or a good righteous man, or you've done great
You've become divinized or angel-fied if you will so I definitely think there was a guy
I put myself at like a 70 30 probably the reverse of what richard carrier says
I can't prove there was a guy
And I think that's what really gets some of the more dogmatic ones that are mythos system
I chat worked up if you can't prove there was a guy then why do you do it?
Well, I've heard all the the explanations for paul saying jesus was crucified
Right, and I've heard the mythos explanations
And I just go philo josephus paul the gospels they all talk about jews actually being crucified on an actual roman cross
It's so much simpler to me. And it's just like they mythologized this guy
That means he didn't walk on water. He didn't actually do any literal miracles. That doesn't mean he wasn't a miracle worker
like
You know benny hen or somebody but you know
Oh, benny hen is a miracle worker a miracle worker. There's um like peter popoff as a miracle worker. There's there's um
One thing that gets me is and this just sticks with me so much is I talk about it in my video links in the description
on the bible history, but
but emma's method reading the
Gospels
Horizontally or vertically or whatever he says like reading is marked never had the disciples
Encounter with the resurrected jesus and it's an earliest gospel to me that is like
Imagine if this was literally someone just hit his body or or they were mistaken with the tomb or the romans did take it or something like that
And then this all just came from that just all like the the stories and
Crazy to think one little event in history from all the apocalyptic preachers that were around at the time could have
I mean now we're getting to like conspiracy theories and i'm gonna start sending like a 9 11 truth or something
But like it sounds like it could work like that. You know what I mean?
Okay next one um and
Resurrection what do you think happened?
Oh god, you kind of answered it
Yeah, I play with um various ideas about the resurrection here
But I know that they already were hoping for one and if you had a loved one that you experienced after they die
And you thought that they were seen or you thought you experienced them and some way they spoke to you whatever
I imagine that you would then try to somehow rationalize your understanding of the general resurrection that all jews thought would happen
With this one individual's resurrection
Which is why I think the gospel of matthew fabricates the legend of the zombie apocalypse
They put this resurrection of well, it wasn't just jesus. There were other jews and and righteous men who came back to life
Which we know didn't happen even michael lakona was fired for something like that because he said he didn't think it literally happened historically
So the christian, you know college or wherever he was that fired him. Um
I think that uh
As it goes with this resurrection theme
You also have to look at all of the pictures not just jewish mil you to understand what might be happening heroes would disappear
Uh, they would be taken they would have transformations that would go off into heaven the celestial sphere things like that
so
um
If I were to try and play it back
I like to play different roles in my head. Are we counting an empty tomb?
Are we saying the empty tombs legendary? What are we going to explain about the criteria?
Either way
It does not equate this resurrection really is true
There were even scholars who said with the gospel tells you the answer
They stole the body
Now christians have a response to this but like literally there are accusations
All the disciples just stole the body and there are real scholars who take that conclusion and say no that they
Believe in jesus and they don't want this to be embarrassing
So they took the body or whatever excuse you can come up with anything's possible
But I definitely think the guy was a real person
Okay, um that is great. I've got some questions from the audience
um someone asked
Do you think religion is like a drug? Yes
Okay, I do um I don't want to get too lost into it, but I'm not saying it is a drug
I'm saying it's like one it's tapping into the same stuff in in the cortex like
Drugs do you're getting it's touching the same things and like I said
um drug addiction gets down into that whole
Like it literally fuses itself to your instincts
And what is religion other than it's it is finding its ways to kind of
Fuse itself to your senses and your experience in the world all your senses are getting tapped into
That's a why they you walk into the cathedral. You see the big images you hear the noises you smell the incense
Like they're trying to get all of those instinctual patterns
Satisfied in these religions. So yeah, I think that it's like a drug and it acts like a drug in many ways
Now I would talk to an expert
Or ask someone who knows the brain and these things better than I do, but I'm convinced that by my experience too
Awesome, um that actually answered one of the questions. I had
Also, we have uh shenan cute in the audience. Hey shenan
Shannon is was awesome because she was the first guest that I had on when we did the rebrand and relaunch
So go check out her episode because it was really interesting because we talked about consciousness in that one and it was really
She is she inspired me to want to interview a guy named mark mark solmes
On consciousness and like really dive into this, but I'm looking at it from a natural perspective
And she's been huge brilliant brilliant shenan's brilliant. Yeah. Yeah, great person
uh
Nidimus asked if you could redo any interview you've done on myth vision, which one would it be and why?
Any interview I've done on myth vision
That's a tough one. I've done over a thousand interviews
I don't know. I don't know. Nidimus. That's an interesting question. Um
Hmm
I I'd have to think about that one that one's tough because I don't know
You know, I just would do a new retake
I really don't know
um
Okay, um
You kind of touched this before but I'll ask my other question. Um, how do you account for religion? What is religion to you?
Well, uh, obviously we'd be talking about organized religion is is uh
these belief systems that all these people have organized together in which they're believing in
Usually a metaphysical belief system that is something beyond the natural world
Superstition I would call it where people are having hope. They're trying to explain why we're here
They're trying to explain what this is the meaning of life and where we're going
Typically, that's what I would see as religion and it's organized in different pockets and they're
Usually fighting each other. Uh, because we have the right version of it
Um, but buddhism is kind of a different type of thing that we still call a religion and it doesn't posit a god
So it it's one of those categories that
Looking at a generic definition
Would be one of the things I would do just try and explain religion
Sometimes I universalize the term and I'll just put oh christians. Well, what is a christian?
Well, not all christians think the same and then when I actually talk to some of them
I'm like, okay, hold on. Me and you've got a lot more in common. Maybe I shouldn't generically use the term christian
but
It's just how we are. I mean sometimes I just will just say oh christians or muslims will say or whatever and
I don't mean it like that
So I don't know as far as religion goes. I would just say an organized approach where and it's coupled with culture
On on these belief systems of where we come from. What are we doing? What's our purpose and where are we going?
Yeah, it's like trying. It's like our first humanity's first attempt or earliest attempt to explain the cosmos
Or even existence like what is this?
So yeah, I'm trying to explain like what is this and it's like, yeah, you know
Um, so we have 45,000 different denominations of christianity according to the center of christian studies and someone asked
How would you define a christian in your own words and they might be using this as bait to do a hit piece on you?
so
um
Well, there's 45,000 denominations, but I would say there's millions of different types of christians
and each person's different
Uh, this is the difficult problem is trying to define what a christian is
because
The earliest christians in our new testament cannot agree with each other on the meaning of the gospel
I follow paul. I follow paul's. Yeah
And paul says anyone who teaches you another gospel than the one that who what other god who's
Who are where are these other gospels at and what are they teaching and you talk about?
The the heresy of hymenas and philetus that said the resurrection already happened or the carinthians think that there is no body
To jesus that is resurrection first 20 and 15 like so what is a christian?
Broadly speaking someone who says they follow christ and when I say christ
specifically jesus
Now that can be any definition of like what you think about jesus your theology all of that but
That would be technically what I would say a christian is
Orthodoxy wants to capitalize and monopolize the term and say well a christian is truly someone who believes in this creed that we give you
And tells you what to believe and how to believe but yeah
So there's really a smart person in the chat who everyone should go subscribe to called
Deep drinks podcast just asked so is jordan peterson a christian?
Dude, he's so weird and different
He's just very I I don't know what to I think he's
He I think he definitely at the core is a christian in some sense. It's some sense no matter what
um, but he also wants to act like he is above
Christianity by writing you've seen the recent video did to the churches
And like like he is this authority figure two muslims, you know like bro. Who are you telling all these groups?
You know like what you know, it's just really
I don't that's that's a tough one. Um
Okay, so I want to uh, I want to end I normally end on two questions
So I want to throw a third one in there and the third one's a bit more serious
And then there's a serious one. There's a joking one. Okay first one if someone is struggling with addiction
heroin addiction or any type of addiction
What do you suggest is a good first general first step in in getting help?
medical
professional help
Okay, medical professional help before you go to anything
Yeah, go seek
Professionals experts scientists or doctors talk to them about a maintenance program
Because statistically speaking there's a higher you've got to look at statistics
Um, do not try it like I did it abstinent
Um, do not you know, it is so dangerous relapse is usually inevitable statistically speaking
There just go talk to medical professionals. Do not play around and think you know
I'm gonna sit on my couch
In my house and withdraw and make it my brother
Recently went to rehab again for relapsing
And uh, I'm so proud of him like he is getting help. He was kicking for like seven days
And uh and calling me and I just sit there and wait with him sometimes
He'd just call and I'd be on my computer editing a video. He'd just be sitting there laying there
And finally like I'm done. I'm going into a facility. I'm like good. Thank you go
So yes 100 they can they they see things we don't they know things we don't and they can help you
Thank you. That was I'm so glad you said that. That's fantastic advice
I I'm also a huge advocate for a psych psychologist
I think everyone should go to a psychologist
Once in their life or some sort of therapy
I think everyone's got shit to deal with and I think it's a lot easier than getting advice from your drunk friends
Although that's also important. Um, we're getting advice from friends. Um, but I but I'm a huge advocate for that kind of stuff
so
last serious question
What if anything would change your mind?
Of what on the god of god belief god
God would change your mind god would that's it
And I've said this to christians and I've said this all the time
The only way that you would convince me
Is if god
did something to do so
it would take
legit
Evidence from god like and you go well, what would that evidence be? Well, if he can make the universe
Based on this worldview and he does show up over and over in your text and he does things that are just unbelievable
I don't expect this to somehow convince other people
No, you asked what could convince me
Okay, what could convince me would be god somehow
showing up. Let's just play the story
here is um
Here is doubting thomas right thomas is in there and I just don't believe it. I don't believe he rose from the dead
I don't believe it. Okay. I'm a little beyond that in my skepticism
But okay, if he can convince thomas that he rose from the dead, why can't god convince me?
And I'm going to be honest with it
So if I end up having an experience because I have had past experiences with hallucinating on drugs
I might be like, whoa, hold on. Is this true?
Now if god shows up and was able to convince me break beyond my skepticism and show me you're not hallucinating
Like was able to do so because
Look god supposedly knows right so god wouldn't know how to convince me
And in like that's the bottom line
But if if with what I'm working with and everything that I've seen and experienced the way I am
I have no reason to think that the unicorn is going to come and prove its existence to me
Or the leprechaun is going to prove its existence to me
And I have no I just don't see it happening
My mom believes that god's going to reveal himself to me one day
And she thinks literally going to reveal himself like god's going to actually appear to you
And do all this stuff because she she knows I'm a skeptic and it's like
That's what it would take
I hope that you can read into that some and understand what I'm trying to say
But I would question your faculties. I hope I'd be skeptical and go. What was that?
But I wouldn't want to say it's not true because
experiencing
These things it's difficult to just say oh
That's nothing. No. Yeah. No, like the real experiences is just whether or not they could could like
Uh line up with the realities another thing
Um before I ask the last question and we wrap this interview
I wanted to tell everyone about something
I want you to tell everyone about something you're going to be doing soon that I'm going to be your first
motherfucking student to
MVP academic course. Can you please tell everyone about that?
So I'm starting a separate business that is you know, be advertised with myth vision
I got the inspiration because Bart Ehrman's been doing a lot of courses lately
And I've been helping him getting affiliates youtubers to kind of promote the courses and get people educated
But Bart Ehrman's one guy. He has one angle. He has one take and
I thought to myself
I could help a lot of academics
Who want to really educate the world
And they're hiding behind like princeton or they're hiding behind harvard or they're hiding behind yell
And they're all over the place dukey diversity chapel Hill. You name it
And they have all this knowledge, but you have to pay, you know
$60,000 a year to go to this college to finally get a couple courses with them at best
No, we can put these in courses organized edited formats to teach people deep college level information on the topics
Biblically related right now, but I'm also trying and I've already contacted like guts at gibbon erica
I actually want to get her professors and others who are like well known
Evolutionist to come on and teach courses with visuals and show why evolution is a fact
Like I want to do courses in science. I want to do courses in the bible. I want to do courses and you name it
Are you going to teach the controversy with ken ham?
No
There is no fucking controversy. Yeah, no, thanks. I do I do want to uh
I do want to you know start that up and I've already got three courses that we've already recorded
And I'm editing and trying to put those together right now and I'm trying to do more so
MVP courses, which is myth vision podcast courses. That's coming out
We're gonna have a website launch where there's going to be courses for that
And then also I'm going to plan on starting another short
myth vision clips youtube channel because we have three and four hour live streams or three and four hour recordings sometimes
And there's like 10 15 minute nuggets in these where I need to pull them out
Because people aren't going to watch all that and just let people watch the little powerful snippets
hmm
Nina mist did point out though that phd holder kent hoven would like to expose you on his for your scholarship. So
fortunately
your idea your idea is down in the water because
People should go down to down sort of wrench land and get all answers. So
Uh, unfortunately, we don't have not getting hoven here tonight. Unfortunately, but uh,
Is a is a guest of the show
Uh, last question, um before we end up
This is a fun one
If you could choose an afterlife and it would instantly become true as soon as you chose it what afterlife would you choose?
Oh
That's a good question because I have gone on record wishing that it didn't end when we die
Um, I mean, I'm one of those atheists who's like I would love for the party to not end
But I'm also not going to psych myself out or try to pretend
That something else is there and I don't have that evidence. So, um
Life's been tough
Life has been really tough. I'm kind of tired the journey so far, you know, I've kind of lived a long life in such a short period
all the struggling and stuff so
Whatever it is
I hope it would be peaceful and relaxing
That's it. And not a thrill ride. Just something that would just be
Very chill and relaxing
uh
Remove boredom because that would be a problem
I don't know. You can like this. I feel like we're creating a sim video game here right now about heaven
Like what do you want to create it?
Well, if you could if you could like choose a religion like a mainstream religions
Afterlife so like would you go with reincarnation or would you go with like the typical heaven from a christian perspective?
Or would you go with like the ideas of like a new world new jerusalem?
Or would you go with like bro? I could they're all so phony in my opinion that I just don't buy
I think at best people like with reincarnation will try to say look at life. Look at look at nature. It's cyclical
It has like repetition patterns and stuff. So like oh they try to obviously
Yeah, obviously there's as much evidence for all of them as they are for each other
But what i'm saying is if you could choose one and it would become true
Is there any that spark your because I kind of think reincarnation would be fun, right?
Like if you could just relive the journey, you know, I don't know. What's cool. What's cool about
There is there is buddhist there is buddhist hell, right?
But what's cool about their hell is it's only if you've
Fucked up in life and you've got to burn off your karma in the afterlife and you it's temporary
You burn it off so you can then continue again, which is nice. That's a nice. Hell. It's a nicer. Yeah, it's a nice
Yeah, when eternal that's
Yeah, I don't know man because there's different versions of all sorts of types of heaven
And in christians don't even know what it is like. What is heaven?
What does it mean? Are you gonna sit there like these figures we read in the book of revelation just bowing down?
Holy holy
Holy are the lord god almighty like forever and ever or we're gonna actually get to like chill and be like hey, man on wednesday
Come over here, bro. We're gonna have a blast. Oh, you're not gonna be sick. Don't worry
Nobody's sick no death no diseases and we can enjoy all the happy moments and our endorphins are always good and positive
And we have plenty of just everything just right that'd be awesome
Imagine all of the positive amazing experiences that you can possibly think of and absolutely no repercussions
Nothing negative no illnesses no sicknesses like everything is great. I think that's what they're trying to paint in revelation
But like they're a little bit like we're gonna bow down and be in front of jesus
like forever and ever like
I mean
I like the rick and morty like taking the goggles off and you're in like in an alien arcade and you're like
Wow, that was a fun game like that that would be cool too
But um, we'll end there. Thank you so much for coming on derrick everyone
Make sure you check out derrick's channel
Make sure you subscribe
We've got lots of amazing guests coming up and go check out channel's episodes
You're still in the chat and I did need to finish but I hope we could both hold up our glasses
I don't know if you've still got something in your glass and we can both say at the same time your cat phrase
Ready?
We
are
myth vision
Sweet thanks derrick. Thanks everyone. I'll see you next time. Thank you
