Welcome, everyone, to Deep Drinks Podcast, the deepest podcast on the internet.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to introduce today's distinguished guest, Jimmy
Snow, Jimmy fucking Snow, as people like to say.
Known best for his wildly popular call-in show, The Lion, Jimmy and another host navigate
complex, the complex waters of religion, atheism, human rights, and a plethora of other controversial
conflicts.
Coming from a deeply religious background, his personal journey from the LDS faith to
atheism has created a unique lens through which he approaches these discussions.
His show is a platform that fosters an open dialogue promoting understanding and challenging
perspectives.
So without further ado, let me endear our guest in the best way that I know how.
This was supposed to be saved for what I met you in person, but Jimmy, go fuck yourself.
With all the love in the world from Venus, go fuck yourself, Jimmy.
Go fuck yourself, Jimmy.
Go fuck yourself, Jimmy.
Hey, Jimmy.
Yeah, you.
Go fuck yourself, eh?
Hey, Jimmy, I know we don't know each other yet, but here's my introduction.
Go fuck yourself.
I'm Derek.
Go fuck yourself, Jimmy.
Go fuck yourself, Jimmy.
Hey, Jimmy, it's me.
You have no idea who I am, but I still think that you should go fuck yourself.
Go fuck yourself, Jimmy.
Jimmy, go fuck yourself.
Jimmy, sweetheart, darling, go fuck yourself.
Welcome.
That's the greatest intro I've ever gotten.
I definitely need a copy of that, please.
Definitely will send it.
That was phenomenal.
Here, I was going to focus you on you calling me a distinguished guest and just say, distinguished
from quality content is what I am.
But wow, no, no, that was incredible.
Yeah, that was great.
So I put in the distinguished there this morning because I wrote a bit of the introduction
yesterday, and I was like, I always like to do something special.
And I reached out to a few of your friends, I reached out to Ben, and I was like, get
his an inside joke, something I couldn't work with.
And he's like, well, you definitely have to tell him to go fuck himself.
And I was like, oh, is there like some drama going on or whatever?
And he's like, no, no, it's a thing.
And then I was like, I just thought of a sort of the idea.
I was like, Ben, should I just get a bunch of people to tell Jimmy to go fuck himself?
And then he's like, absolutely.
And then we just, we started putting the feelers out like yesterday afternoon.
I was at work in the conference room, like making videos to people like, come on,
send a video of you saying go fuck yourself.
So you're welcome.
Thank you.
Yeah, for real.
Yeah, that was awesome.
You know, it's funny.
So the reason why it exists is we did an episode a while back where there was just a lot of
very wholesome super chats coming in.
And so I was having to read compliments to myself.
And compliments are already so like unbearably uncomfortable to me.
And so I got to the point where I was like, everybody,
I'd way rather you tell me go fuck my like, I would feel more love reading,
go fuck yourself a bunch than having to keep reading like Jimmy like that stuff just makes me.
And so it became a running joke.
And now it even happens on like, you know, I'm sure without even watching last night's episode,
I'm sure that there were super chats on Matt's show online that ended that way with the go fuck yourself.
But I got to tell you, I like compliments are uncomfortable for me.
And what, and that intro is so sweet and such a kind thing that I'm beginning to hate it.
It's going the whole way around.
I'm like, it's gone the whole way around.
Like it's gone from 12 all the way back to 12.
That's amazing.
Well, you know, I'm glad that I could provide that for you because, you know, it's just, it's what we do here.
I try to make the guests uncomfortable sometimes.
It's what it's always fun.
So I've had so many requests for to have you on the channel.
And when I was doing my research, you know, I watched the line for years and but getting to you as a person.
You know, you're incredibly interesting.
And you've described your journey away from the Mormon faith by stating, and I quote, my dick works and I'm autistic.
Can you elaborate on that a little bit?
I don't know what the context was of when I said it.
So let me think of what I probably meant.
The reason why I left Mormonism is because my dick works and I'm autistic.
So I assume that that has to do with the one that my hyper, I mean, somewhat hyper sexual nature is starting at a very young age.
It's funny and somewhat surreal.
I kind of, I kind of set my appearances, my collab days usually are Thursdays.
And today there was two, but so earlier I was on a podcast that doesn't release today.
Oh, I'm like, am I about to tell the same story?
I don't want to make it boring, but the short version and then give other details that aren't born.
But I am very hyper sexual from like a very young like 10 or 11 years old is is when it like it turned on and like a light switch.
I was just horny all the time.
And that is entirely incompatible with Mormonism, especially as a young boy, because in Mormonism you aren't allowed to even masturbate.
Masturbation is a sin.
And so it was the incompatibility with my sexual identity to tell you the truth.
The queer part wasn't even a problem that I recognize or like it wasn't a pressing problem because my, you know, women are fucking great.
They're gorgeous.
And like I was fine.
I was fine just living in the in the in the women only part of my sexuality.
I didn't feel like I was missing out on my, I mean, I had crushes on guys where it was like, I didn't realize I was sad that I was never going to get to, you know, take them anywhere.
But I wasn't internalizing much.
It was really just the hyper sexuality that was incompatible, incompatible with my identity.
And then the autism, anybody who has autism or is read about it is aware of like, when we say we love rules,
we don't mean we love being controlled quite the opposite.
We like the predictability of this input equals that output and for there to be consistency because most things which are true have that consistency.
And so at some point, this sort of like asking questions and getting answers of like, you don't need to know the answer or something that's just so incompatible with anything that's logical or reasonable.
The, it wouldn't surprise me and I know that there are people who are religious who almost degrade us when they say it, but it wouldn't surprise me if autistic people are more likely to leave religious belief or maybe leave earlier than other people because the inconsistency and
The non urgency to actually find out if something is true or not.
Concepts like it doesn't matter if it's true, you should just believe my dad literally told me this whether you believe it's true or not act as though you do and then you'll you'll believe again one day and you should be better off doing that which is fucking like what a stupid thing to say.
And so I think I think that must have been the context of what I meant whenever I, whenever I said that which is, it was incompatible with my identity as a very sexual human.
And it was incompatible with my, the way in which I build truth in my head like the way in which I put truth together or, or, or contain it.
You know, you couldn't, you couldn't hold on to claims of Mormonism the same way you can hold on to claims of science even though Mormonism makes scientific claims that are obviously bogus so I gotta think that's probably what I meant in that specific situation.
But I also might have just been horny when somebody brought it up I don't know.
Well, um, yeah, I can totally relate to that before we go any further as a as always I've forgotten to ask you what we're drinking today.
That's, I'm actually a fantastic host I'm one of the best in the world.
I always, I was late for the for the free screening I've forgotten it.
So what are we drinking?
So I've ever had so you are one of the best posts in the world.
I'm drinking 1877 mineral water, which is a local brand that's only sold by a chain here called he be in Texas.
And it has zero.
It's just water and bubbles, but it doesn't have.
I remember growing up trying seltzer a couple of times and being like, I will never like this.
This tastes like ass.
I have not had that experience now as an adult is more people have gotten into mineral waters and stuff.
It doesn't have that seltzer taste.
I don't even know what seltzer is if that's different than mineral mineral water, but I don't know.
I remember being violently, violently opposed to soda water.
I remember first tasting soda water when I was a kid and being like, what is this?
Like who could ever like this and now I just love it.
Like I won't drink normal water.
Like it's boring.
It's pretty much all I drink.
It's this and then like, I'll usually have a cup of coffee about an hour after I wake up right now.
And I have to go through phases with it because I'm like hypersensitive to caffeine.
And at some point I drink it until I hit a day where I don't sleep for two or three days in a row.
And then I cut it out.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They actually asked a really great question.
So what scientific claims are in Mormonism?
So, uh, and this, this is kind of a good question to kind of start off because I wanted to kind of get your,
maybe you could tie it in with a bit of your journey.
Like how did you go from, uh, what kind of moment were you?
What are the moment just believe in?
How did he kind of, uh, get out of it?
Is what is kind of the, the, the bulk of what I want to ask you today.
Yeah.
Hey, can I make a request that's a little bit douchey?
Cause I'm asking you to asking if I can run your channel a little bit.
Do you have a month in the chat?
Uh, yes.
You don't have to ban him, but will you delete everything?
Otangelo says today.
Oh, fucking.
Yeah.
No, no, no.
I know, I know.
Yeah.
I know who, I know who he is.
Yeah.
Cool.
I hate him.
Uh, uh, he.
Super.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Well, and docs, docs, dead named and shared pictures of one of the hosts of the line pre-transition.
So, uh, so, so while I'm not going to tell you, you must ban them, but can you have one of your mods?
Just delete everything and don't.
No, no, no.
Yeah.
I've, uh, yeah.
Mutim or whatever.
Like, cause, um, yeah, he brings nothing, but, uh, oh, and he's so dishonest too.
So well, this could be a whole hour of just hate on, on pendulum.
Yeah, I just want him to know I chose to notice him and did this.
I like, I want him to feel hurt that I personally will go out of my way to harm his presence on YouTube.
Like I want him to look into my eyes and see I hate him.
Uh, or what a fucking bigoted, not just the bigotry, the bigotry's one thing.
Do you know what I hate the most about a tangelo is how boring he is.
Like, yeah.
And I know that's fucked up to say, like the bigotry's one thing, but bigotry's not boring,
at least it's what my whole career runs on.
I, of course, if I could snap my fingers and give it all the bigotry, I would.
Uh, he's such a bore.
His content is boring.
His scripts that he's reading are boring.
They're just put him into Google.
They're not difficult to engage with.
You are a difficult human to engage with, but not cause you're good at it because you're so fucking boring.
I just find I, I think I can see where you're coming from.
I haven't had too much engagement with him except for that.
Everything I've seen him produce is wildly dishonest.
Like Kent Hoven levels of dishonest.
I've never watched the whole thing, but I've seen where he's like, I talked to, I successfully talked to them for 90 seconds.
Here's my nine hour stream in response.
Yeah.
So, uh, yeah, so he's super annoying.
So yeah, 100% totally down with that.
But anyway, sorry for interrupting your flow.
Uh, that's okay.
Um, so what is, yeah, so, um, oh my gosh, we got super chat as well.
Let me just read the super chat.
Nitty, thank you so much for the dental super chat.
David and Jimmy need to drink, uh, to having to burn down.
Oh, Shroud.
Oh, Shroud.
That's a weird nickname for him.
Oh, like I'm trying to work it out.
I mean, granted, I love, I love play on words and puns.
I've been, I spent today trying to figure out the name, which I think I came up with it for our new town hall.
Actually, I think I came up with some good ones and then I sent it to Dilla hunting and Dilla hunting came back with one that was based on the ones I sent, but better.
Uh, but I think we've come up with the name of our new town hall debate show, which I think will launch later this month.
Uh, it's going to be called dual, dual log.
I have to get down pronouncing it right because it's based on the word dialogue, two people speaking, but it's a debate, dual log.
I need the two syllables of dual because it's easy to go dual log too easy.
Okay.
There you go.
The first place.
This is the first place.
That's public knowledge.
New show.
The line.
Well, yeah.
So let's, let's do some promotions.
So everyone here would know about the line.
If you're not subscribed, what are you doing?
First of all, can you give us a little bit of a rundown of what you're besides that?
What else have you got going on over in the line?
Uh, yeah, the line.
So, so the line is, uh, my channel that I sort of, uh, so years ago, my main passion was my, my personal channel was Jimmy snow.
But I, I didn't, this is going to sound so douchey.
I didn't like doing collabs on Jimmy snow or on back then it might have been called Mr. Atheist or Mr. Atheist.
I kind of wanted to just contain it to this thing.
Uh, and then I liked these other, this other organizations show, uh, that was a calling show, but I hated that I basically, I couldn't be on it because I wasn't in Austin.
Um, and I thought it was such a, such like a, a miss to not open it up to more people and have people from other than Austin.
And so I reached out to that organization and was basically like, Hey, I want to do, I want to be able to start doing more collabs, but I want to do it specifically.
Basically what y'all are doing with just some minor tweaks to it.
Uh, and they were, they were super gracious at that time.
Uh, and they were like, yeah, here's everything.
They basically gave me how all of their tech works, everything.
I ended up going a different direction there.
They are based on a program called, uh, it's not stream yard.
It's not, it's, it's, I can't remember what it's called, but I, I use V mix.
Uh, and so I went a slightly different direction, but they were still super helpful and super endorsed it.
And so basically launched this thing called the line, which at first was the name of the show, uh, what is now the Sunday show.
And basically every Sunday, uh, we would do a call in show that was very, very similar in format to that other program.
Uh, since then, uh, one, they, I, I, they, when COVID hit, they basically needed to switch to my model.
Uh, and because they were so gracious, I was gracious in return was like, here's how I do it.
Here's everything, uh, uh, so that they could have remote people and they, they've now opened that up to more remote stuff.
But now we're at a point where we've moved beyond just that.
Uh, we currently do five shows a week, uh, minimum, uh, on Sundays, we have the Sunday show, still that religious themed one, uh, on Mondays.
We have a show called Skeptok pretty similar to the Sunday show, except for that we make sure that it's hosted by someone with some level of expertise.
We also have science communicators, uh, like John Gleason, like Forrest Valkyrie.
You've got, uh, the psychology person, uh, in Shannon Q, uh, Aaron Raugh, who has a biology background, but also is an incredible debater.
Um, and then on Tuesdays, we are actually ending hostility.
It'll become a floating show starting this Tuesday.
We'll be dying out loud with Dave Warnock, who is an individual who's terminally ill.
It's the saddest of our shows because it's the one that unfortunately is only going to last for a couple of years, uh, cause Dave will pass away at some point.
But in the meantime, we're going to get to benefit from his wisdom as a, an ex pastor, uh, a non-believer who is facing his own mortality as well as have these conversations about life and purpose and all of that.
Um, then on Wednesdays, we have the hang up with Matt Dillahunty.
He gets to be a lot more political than he is on other shows, uh, gets to talk about whatever's on his mind as well as featured guests that he likes to have on with him.
And then on Thursdays, and I'm, I, nobody, I know that no one is offended when I say this, uh, cause we've talked about it.
On Thursdays, we do what I think is the best show on the line and it's called the transatlantic calling show.
Uh, and it is hosted by trans people and they will take calls from allies and they will take calls from adversaries and opponents.
There was one episode earlier today.
Uh, yeah, Arden student, no, no longer students.
Dr. Ben, uh, and Katie Montgomery are the three rotating hosts and then sometimes they bring a guest or they come on, they go together.
Uh, and that is what I think is just the best thing we do at the moment.
Uh, but we're going to be expanding a lot, new debate shows, new channels launching, and then come September, I will be relaunching my old project as a part of the line programming called the sometime show.
Where we'll be talking a lot about news and current events for the first hour and then doing a call in portion for the second hour.
So you asked for what is, it wasn't a short answer.
I'm sorry.
No, that's absolutely what I want.
Like it's just incredible.
And I would have to agree that the transatlantic calling show is just my favorite of the bunch.
Um, it's, it's really good.
It's, it's just, um, it's, so it's just, it's just such a great way to engage with it.
Cause you have like, essentially two sides of the screaming, right?
At each other.
And then your show just like cuts right through the middle.
It's like a, the transatlantic calling show is just like this, like, this like river of just like good conversations.
I guess you could say.
Thank you.
I also just think it's, it's crazy to me.
And I bet you it's going to change soon because of our, our, uh, spread the word techniques that we're about to employ.
But it's crazy to me that, did you know it's also our least watched show?
Wow.
If you go and you look, I don't know if you still have that window you just had up.
If you go and you look at, uh, uh, yeah.
So if you look at, uh, last week, you see like 20,000 views with Paul and Shannon there.
Uh, and yeah, they really break 10,000 views.
And this is the hottest topic in the world right now.
Uh, it's the topic that the right in both the UK and in America are trying to, uh, they always pick somebody to make you a friend.
Uh, and until these last couple of elections, it was always brown people are coming to take your jobs.
Uh, or, you know, the caravans, the caravans are coming.
We always talk about the caravan.
Now it's trans issues and it is their favorite boogie person to date because they can package everything into it.
Uh, uh, every, every thing they, they use as a fear mongering thing.
Isn't it funny how like in the seventies, like, I know, you know, I know like boomers who used to, you know, drive around, you know, parts of Australia and find people that look gay and then bash them.
Like it was like, there was a lot of homophobia.
Now most people I know are okay with gays, like homosexuals and lesbian stuff, but yeah, transgender folk.
They're the new boogie man.
They're the new like, they're the new ostracized person.
Oh, sorry.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Hey, I'm still, I'm still, uh, I'm still learning.
Like I, I grew up in the Texas of, uh, I'm in the Texas of, um, of Australia.
Um, so D is screaming in the chat, um, scientific Mormon claims.
So yeah, thank you for the super chat.
I did, I started your comment before we were going to get back to it, but I do appreciate the two dollar super chat and thank you again.
And also to River City Films who sent a two dollar super chat.
All, all the two dollars and go towards money.
I'm getting a new camera and I'm going to be start making some deep drinks documentaries very shortly.
Um, so yeah.
So some scientific Mormon claims.
Do you say you're getting a new camera?
This looks quite nice.
This is works camera.
I see what brand.
What is it?
It's a Sony a seven four, a seven three, uh, with a Sigma 35 mil, but I'm getting a Sony a seven four, um, with a,
uh, a, um, 24 to 70, um, G master 2.8.
Those are great.
I was a photographer before I was a YouTuber and here's if I can give you a piece of advice you didn't ask for.
Uh, those are great.
Get one and don't make it your computer.
Don't make it your streaming camera.
Use that to film bill.
It be rolling stuff.
I think every Elgato has made these cameras that are webcam style that are amazing and I've been switching everybody on our crew to them.
Uh, cause they're simple.
They're easy.
You don't have to worry about timeouts and all that stuff.
Anyway, do whatever you want to do, but I'll tell you, uh, and even if you want to splurge a little, the new face cam pro that you have to wait until you get the email that there's more in stock.
Um, they basically tore out everything and said, what's the maximum stuff we can get as far as lens quality and stuff for around $150, but we don't put anything else in it.
There's no microphone in it.
There's, it's just sensor, uh, sensor and lens and they actually were able to do some like pretty fucking amazing stuff.
And then the software tools they have that go with it, the AI tools and stuff, all super good.
I have thought about that because I saw you sent, um, Stacey some, some gear for her show, which is just, I mean, first of all, what a fucking legend.
Um, oh, Jimmy, let me, let's everyone compliment Jimmy in the chat.
Everyone give him some compliments.
You want me to, you want me to steal all of that goodwill right now?
I'll tell you why I wanted to invest in Stacey's channel.
It's going to make everybody invest in Stacey's channel, right?
Like, do you want to be like a producer or?
Oh, no, no, no.
I, the reason is the idea Stacey has for a podcast is the first new idea in the atheist sphere in forever.
Like it's, it's, it's new and it's, I'm not saying non new ideas aren't good too, but it's sort of like you have this sphere of people where it's like they're all competing for roughly the same few things.
They want to be counter apologetics or they want to be live debaters or whatever.
There's no such thing as a mother, daughter deconstruction podcast.
So the reason why I wanted to invest in them, but I don't necessarily invest, I actually, there's quite a few people who, uh, but I, you know, I'm not out there bragging about it.
I'm, I'm loud about wanting to invest in Stacey's stuff because I want that to take off a mother, daughter deconstruction podcast.
Yeah.
Like what the fuck?
Why is this hat not happened yet?
That's so fucking good as an idea.
And her name is Stacey and it's with her mom.
So it's the Stacey's mom podcast.
Every element of this is fucking awesome.
Yeah.
100%.
And apostasy is in the chat.
Go, go subscribe to her channel.
100% because it's going to, it's going to be wild.
And D is her, I think her mom's name is D. Is that right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And she, she, she gives a vibes of like, I don't know if this is, this is accurate.
Maybe you can tell me.
She's probably more of a wild, wild card than you are Stacey and like you go to your mom and she's like, yeah, that's cool.
Like, you know, so I don't know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
She's like chaotic good in D and D terms.
Yeah.
He sees more lawful good.
Tell you what, we need to, do you play D&D?
We should, there needs to be some sort of a D&D, like a skeptics D&D like show, I think, like critical role, but what?
This idea has been floated once a month by somebody the entire time I've been a YouTuber.
Everybody agrees we should do it.
It's just who's going to take on that project.
It's a lot.
And don't go wrong.
I probably will one day, if no one else has done it and we finally get to the point that I have a production center where I can build a set and it can be some kind of like actually crazy, well produced thing.
I'd for sure do it.
But the question is, is someone going to do it before then?
And who's going to take that on?
Because it's hard enough to get two atheists in a room together and match everybody's availability.
Eight?
Man, I do, I play, I play a D&D campaign with 10 people, including the DMs and nine people, nine players.
We use stream yards.
We use stream yards.
We just record it and we use stream yards for it.
It's actually, it's actually based because you can then use D&D beyond.
And anyway, this is getting, this is only entertaining for us.
I was going to ask you which AI tools you make to show off your, like create monsters and stuff, but
I was actually going to, should I do it?
Yeah, hang on a sec.
I'm going to do it.
Watch out guys.
I'm black and white.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Just wait.
Just wait.
I, you know what?
I think I've ruined it.
I think I've ruined it, but I was going to show you my D&D character with snap camera.
I got like a beard.
I'm a dwarf.
He's a dwarf who took a gap year from mining and put up with some pirates and went raping and pillaging
for like a year.
And he really enjoyed that.
And now he's debating whether or not he wants to go back to mining or he wants to continue
the lifestyle of raping and pillaging, less raping, just more pillaging.
And so that's his character and he's always drunk.
And I have to method act because I'm a perfectionist.
So every Wednesday night is a couple of whiskies for me.
The chaotic evil or unlawfully, what's the alignment there?
I think he's the raping and pillaging part.
It's more just he wants to have fun.
So it's just in the, I've got to say that works.
I'm going to get demonetised.
But he's probably, I think he's neutral.
He's chaotic, neutral.
Okay.
Okay.
Well, then I hope he puts the raping part behind him because that's, that's not exactly...
Well, hang on.
I think he's pillaging.
I'm a socialist, especially if he's pillaging like corporation.
Well, he, the, the rape only comes in for bad people.
Like he rapes the rapists.
Maybe that's, that's his thing.
I haven't gone too much into his backstory.
It's just that he joined the pirates who were raping and pillaging.
And he enjoys that.
He's a dexter rapist.
What an idea.
You're making, you're making me justify things.
I never thought I'd have to justify.
Well, you brought in the details of your campaign and now I've got a,
I've got a, yeah, look at a deck.
Boy, that's an interesting, an interesting premise.
A dwarf dexter.
Actually.
River city films.
So just super channel is actually one of the members of the,
of the crew between deep drinks and D&D faces, just as drunk.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's no drunkenness here tonight.
I'm afraid I am a sober human being.
I'm, I'm, I'm unfortunately extremely straight edge.
I like to say I'm so straight edge.
I don't even wear condoms.
That's amazing.
Okay.
Back to these questions because she's going to blow up.
And D is like, D is one of my favorites.
She's always super training and always supportive.
And she's always here.
She's so cool.
So scientific Mormon claims.
You mentioned that before.
Can we touch a little bit on that?
Yeah.
So, uh, we could make the full list of, well, no, we can't hear tonight.
The list, it depends on what you want.
Do you want the list of things that they still current stand behind,
currently stand behind,
or do you want the list of things that are like passed from the profits and stuff?
And both are really interesting because.
Mormonism technically isn't even really compatible with things they now say
they're fine with.
Like they pretend to be pro evolution, pretend to be pro and,
and individually you're going to have the members go like, yeah,
I took a biology course.
Evolution's often obvious now.
Um, the earth isn't 10,000 years old.
That's obvious now.
However, their temple ceremony is not compatible with that.
And these things which from the religious end are claimed to be fact.
Now they're having to do all these apologetics of like, well,
maybe these periods of time where they're referring to a day, you know,
those could be hundreds of thousands of years,
but even if you add up those hundreds of thousands of years,
you're talking about like a 2 million year old universe.
So that's not that impressive either.
Um, and, uh, but I mean,
the unscientific claims start all the way back with Joseph Smith,
who is claiming to be writing the book of Mormon,
which is supposed to be the story,
the history of the indigenous people of America who according to his
book are descendants of 600 BC Jews.
That's an unscientific claim, uh,
which we now know because we can DNA test and show you that indigenous
people, uh, they're not Jews.
They just aren't.
Uh, and then there's a ton of anti,
our modern understanding of anthropology,
which Mormons will just sit and go like, yeah,
but it's all just hiding like just wait, they're going to find it.
That, that small area where millions of people died in a war with steel
swords before steel had been learned to be refined in the greater world.
Uh, that's, you know, I'm sure that's just hard to find.
Sure.
In Egypt, we can find campsites from people who were there 10,000 years ago,
uh, or whatever it is, 10,000 is probably an exaggeration,
but let's say 5,000 years ago, we provide campsites, uh, of,
of three or four people that we knew were somewhere in the area.
Uh, but we can't find these millions of dead people.
Joseph Smith also made outrageous claims like, uh,
that there are Quakers living on the moon, uh,
only to be taught by Brigham Young,
who then later came and said, not just the moon,
they're living on the sun.
Wait, no.
Did he, is that, are you taking that out of con?
Is that, is that a literal like, are you saying in like,
what context do you think telling people there are Quakers on the moon?
Is it, is it, you know, is it like symbolic?
Is it like they, is it like they're out there?
Or are you saying like they got a house, they, you know,
they're cooking steaks.
Like what, like, what do you, like what, like, what do you, what does that mean?
What do they, what do they mean by that context living on the moon?
Do they actually think like they, they could, I'm so confused.
Please explain.
So, uh, let me see if I can find the, the actual quote.
Um,
and as you do that skeptic schedule said, tendle super chat,
have some money nerds.
Thank you.
Thank you.
There's a, uh, basically it was a, it was a conversation.
So in talking about this Mormonism is also like the first pro alien,
uh, religion, maybe not the first, but it's an, it's a pro alien religion
because they believe there are people on lots of planets throughout the
universe and they're all learning about our planet where Jesus Christ was
crucified.
Uh, and they're covered under the same thing.
Um, and so basically, uh, let's see.
It was a story recapped by Oliver Huntington.
Uh, and you're going to have, you know, when you look it up,
you're going to try it, you're going to find a lot of Mormon website
trying to say like, yeah, but like, how do we even know that guy was telling
the truth?
It was like close to Joseph.
And then again, it's picked up later by bring him young.
He was like, yeah, the moon is Joseph said that, but also let's not forget
the sun.
Um, he described the men is averaging nearly six feet in height,
dressing uniformly and somewhat near Quaker style that they live
generally to be a thousand years old, uh, inhabited by men and women
the same as this earth and they lived to greater age than we do.
Uh, generally a thousand years old.
Um, yeah.
Uh, uh, what's funny is when you go to fair Mormon, now it's fair
Latter-day Saints.
One of their defenses is that well, lots of people believe the moon
was inhabited back then.
Uh, and that it was considered a scientific fact by many, which is
one of those stupid things.
Like when people say everyone did slavery, the flat war or the,
the, the, the most obvious parallel I think is flat earth, you know,
people use, they used to be a scientific fact that the earth was flat,
which is not true.
Wasn't.
Yeah.
And to say that someone believed it was a scientific fact does not
make it a scientific fact.
You idiots.
Uh, yeah.
Uh, other claims.
Um, so, uh, black skin is the result of a curse, uh, on both
Africans and indigenous people.
Uh, they're completely thrown off of the, the concept of varying
melatonin relative to your proximity to the equator.
Uh, that, that escapes them.
Uh, it's, it's cursed.
So in the case of black people, it's because of the curse that was
put on Kane, uh, which they are all trying to back off of now,
but they're unable to back off of it completely.
Uh, they just want to, they just want to now back off of why black
people weren't allowed to have the priesthood.
Uh, and then the book of Mormon.
That's what I was going to ask about.
The dark skin on indigenous people.
And that's still a part of the story.
Um, yeah, I was going to, so the, uh, cause I've seen the book of
Mormon.
Um, and I've interviewed, uh, Dan, who is a Mormon, uh, and, uh,
X Mormons as well.
Um, who is a Mormon?
Uh, Dan McClellan.
Dr. Dan McClellan.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
For sure.
Okay.
Like, uh, super fan.
Um, but I am personally, but he's, um, he didn't, we didn't talk to a
huge amount about, um, any of this stuff.
Um, I'll be interested to get his take on all of this actually.
Cause, um, he'll probably have some interesting perspectives.
He's a really good person to have on, uh, on, on dual.
Uh, I already forgot the name of dual log.
Got the name.
100%.
Uh, but the, the, um, so was there a, like, cause in the,
in the book of Mormon musical, uh, Trey Parker, Matt Stone, they,
you know, they, it was like something about like black people weren't
allowed to be Mormons.
And then God changed his mind about like, like God changes mind about
black people.
Is the, is the like line.
It was mostly full participation.
So extensions of certain temple ceremonies and, uh, the ability
to participate in the priesthood and stuff.
I think they could always be baptized and member and some type of
member.
Uh, the temple ceremony histories include ceiling.
So in, in Mormonism, ceiling is usually where you're ceiling your
family to you, that your family is going to be yours for eternity,
not just for the earth life.
So you get married, get sealed to your wife as your wife for
eternity or wives, depending on who you are.
Uh, and, uh, uh, then you get sealed.
Your children are sealed as your children for eternity and all that
stuff.
Uh, however, uh, prior to the lift of the band, um, the most famous
record of, of a black person being sealed was a person being sealed,
a black, a black woman being sealed to Joseph Smith as his servant
for eternity, that that black person would be Joseph Smith's
eternal servant.
Um, so, you know, dope religion, uh, also, uh, also the, the flood,
Noah's flood is a literal thing in Mormonism.
There's no way for them to back off of that again, because of the
temple ceremony, uh, worldwide Noah's flood.
Uh, Adam and Eve is a, they have to literally exist, not just be
metaphor, like in Catholicism, uh, because of the temple ceremony.
In fact, Mormon's history with Adam, uh, is now it's just meant to
be that Adam was basically, so Adam is also not Gabriel, the
angel, Michael, they're the same person.
Um, Michael and Adam are the same person, but in the past, in
parts of Mormon doctrine, Adam was actually God and God came down
and did the Adam thing.
Um, that there's a very funny T-shirt by Zulfan.
I don't know Jimmy.
Make on.
Yeah, I know.
I know it sounds crazy.
Yeah, uh, Zulf on the shelf has some funny merch that some, uh,
make Adam God again, merch.
Uh, that's the magma merch.
Um, yeah, uh, they've been very anti evolution until recently.
In fact, you can find quotes from general authorities and
prophets of the, uh, church saying basically it's impossible
for evolution to be true and for Mormonism to be true at the same time.
Therefore evolution isn't true.
Uh, they have since tried to back off of that.
They're apologetics.
They're like, actually evolution makes the church more true.
You remember that, that, that goalpost we've, that line in the sand.
Let me just tell you how far we've moved the goalpost.
Now it's not if evolution is true.
The church isn't true.
Now it's if evolution is true, the church is more obviously true.
Just fucking, I don't know, like somebody was doing ether.
So someone, uh, uh, D mentioned, it's not too, I'm just reading out
all these comments.
It's just pumpkins of bangers out guys.
But, um, uh, no, no, no, no, no wrong one.
Um, in Islam, blacks become white in heaven.
I didn't know that.
Um, and I'd like to fact check that cause that sounds, sounds,
sounds wildly problematic.
Uh,
Mormonism also is that's true to Mormon doctrine, but again,
if you talk to a Mormon,
they're probably going to try to back off of that.
Yeah.
If you wouldn't have the curse, not just after you die
and become a ghost,
but also when you eventually are resurrected also.
Um,
is that a wider Christian belief that eventually you die
and then everyone is resurrected like Jesus was with a new body?
Uh,
like in the way it depends,
which depends with sex,
and Christianity in Pentecostal Christian,
I was a Pentecostal youth pastor.
So in that, in the,
that type of Christianity, I don't,
I'm not a hundred percent sure to be honest.
I know that the concept is like you die, you become a ghost,
then as soon as everybody dies and or everybody has been born,
that's when the millennium will begin.
Uh,
it will be like everyone will be resurrected.
You'll have a perfect body.
We'll do a thousand years of some type of work.
I don't know what it's supposed to be.
Uh,
and then at the end of the millennium,
that's when you'll have had your chance to conquer temptation and
become perfect because Satan will be locked away.
Then Satan is going to be released.
He'll be able to tempt people again.
Anybody who fails falls for temptation and sins again,
we'll lose their status of perfection and lose their chance
at exaltation where they become a God for eternity,
like our God.
Um, but yeah, there's a physical human body.
I mean, in Mormonism, God has a physical fleshy dick.
I don't know how big it is and no Mormon will answer questions
about the size of God's penis,
which I feel like is an pressing issue that we need to answer.
No, I think you're incorrect there, Jimmy.
Uh, when I had Dan on, we explicitly went over the size of,
uh, it was like, it was last week's episode.
We had explicitly went over the size of God's dick.
Like it fills the room in Isaiah.
We pulled up the scriptures.
He showed us scriptures that,
that explicitly talk about the size of God's physical dick.
His physical penis.
Yeah, I don't know who was that with Dan McClellan.
Dan is willing to talk about the side,
the physical size of God's penis.
Dude, he, like I said, he's the man.
He's the absolute man.
Wait.
So what is Dan's association with the church now?
He's still in, I thought.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He just, he just, um, I think he's just stopped.
He was the, the head scripture.
I mean, he didn't say God's dick.
He used like professional, like he said, like,
some people would reference it as a member and blah, blah, blah.
Like he talked more better than I am now.
He spoke in a very politically correct and precise.
Like, I know, I know there's some indication that the story of
Moroni visiting Joseph Smith was with his dick out, but I don't,
I don't recognize that word.
So, you know, do you know, uh, Dr.
Uh, uh, Professor Francesca staffed like a pooler in her book,
God and anatomy.
Uh, like she had like David Folt come after and say, um,
you know, you shouldn't measure scholarship by cup size and then
everyone, like it's canceled him and he lost his job.
It was so fun.
I now, I got blocked by him because I asked what his cup size was
and he blocked me, but, um, but, uh, but it was, uh, he,
so she wrote a book, uh, probably one of my favorite books,
God and anatomy and she talks about this, how the Hebrew Bible
and Hebrew God had a physical body and talks about his feet,
his arms, his legs and everything.
And it goes, and she was his, um, dissertation supervisor
when he was at the University of Exeter.
And so it goes right into the scholarship.
It's really, it's super interesting.
Um, but essentially there's a scripture in Isaiah that talks
about the chains of, of Yahweh's garment, but that translation,
the chains of his garment is, uh, it's like a wink, wink,
nudge, nudge.
It's like, uh, and it's filled the room and it's like,
it's, it's in Francesca and Dan make the case that it's possible
or even more likely that they're talking, it's a wink, wink,
nudge, nudge at the size of God had a huge member in other words.
And a physical member or like a physical present member,
like a ghost of Venus past or what are we talking about?
Like a physical, like God was a physical, uh, it's a physical,
uh, it's, it's, it's hard because I don't think God was in the
temple physically swinging his, uh, member around.
This is, this is what's interesting about deep drinks.
I sometimes have conversations like this, um, over water.
And other times I have Christian apologists on who, uh,
we drink straight scotch, um, and we talk about the problem of evil.
And then I have scholars on the talk about stuff that I still
struggle to follow after re-watching the episode.
So it's a wild ride here.
Subscribe and like the stream if you want to see this.
Oh, it's got the willy everybody.
Actually, you did mention our Aaron Ra, um, a second ago and
about Noah's like Aaron Ra was pivotable in my Dean's
deconstruction, um, experience.
I didn't like the creation evolution thing was important,
but the nail in the coffin for me, the thing that made me just
totally let go.
Okay.
This is obviously fake was, was watching Aaron Ra's series on how
X destroys Noah's flood.
And he's actually coming on tomorrow.
Uh, and I just want everyone to appreciate the beautiful cover
photo that I made, um, proclaiming the gospel of Jesus to Aaron Ra,
come back home.
And I just love Aaron's face and my expression there.
I just think, uh, I think it's, it's going to be fun.
I'm going to try and, I'm going to try and gaslight.
Uh, Aaron into becoming a Christian.
Um, again, so that's my guy.
Yeah.
I need, I need everyone's help come along and we'll, we'll try
and gaslight him into becoming a Christian who works.
That'll be amazing.
Right.
Um, so.
Yeah.
So, yeah, I guess, yeah, I guess it does.
Yeah.
There is, there are some organs, I guess, who do talk about the
size of God's dick, but you have to go deep into the scholarship.
Very deep, very deep for God's dick.
Um, so, yeah.
So, yeah.
So like, so we've talked about the scientific necracies.
How did you first, when did you first start questioning your
faith and like, uh, getting interested in even like examining
the evidence for, you know, all of this?
The, so the hard part is I don't, it's a complicated question.
Cause it's, I find the, I find the, uh, I don't know.
It's the questioning wasn't as important as the rebellion because
I, I rebelled before I became a hypocrite first before I was
actually questioning.
So it was like, it was like, I was having sex or doing sexual
things and doing stuff I wasn't supposed to from a young age.
Uh, and, uh, that rebellion eventually the having to live that
and basically just be a liar for an identity to say, like, to
tell other people don't have sex, don't masturbate.
That's a sin.
Be pure.
Maintain your purity.
And then I'm like headed off to my fucking girlfriend's car.
So we can do mouth stuff.
You know, it's like love mouth stuff.
All right.
The compatibility with the life I wanted to live and like that at
a certain point does wear you down.
You go, okay, I have to, I have to see if I'm a hypocrite and know
it, or if I am at the point that I want to acknowledge I'm wrong
and, uh, repent or figure out if I'm even wrong, like figure
out this incompatibility.
And so the rebellion preceded the, I mean, there are stories of
times in my teenage years when I went this specific thing that's
happening around me seems nuts, but the actual like the actual
questioning doesn't come until a period of time where I'm also
going through identity crisis.
I'm experimenting with drugs and alcohol and I'm, uh, living the
life that, you know, it's easy for Mormons to point to and go,
well, no wonder he left.
He just wanted to sin.
Though ironically, uh, I now break a lot of those rules less than
ever.
You know, again, I'm not drinking alcohol.
I'm not, I'm not, uh, doing most drugs.
I recently started relying on Delta eight cannabis products to,
uh, fall asleep, but that's literally all I use it for.
Um, having sex in like a year, like what the fuck?
Like whatever, whatever issues you all think I'm, uh, uh, the,
the leaving to sin is a weird thing because it's much easier to
be sinful within religion, which encourages hypocrisy.
Uh, it's easier to do whatever you want and then get forgiveness,
not from the victims of your quote unquote sins, but from a guy
who I've decided, I've decided the, I, the person you didn't
manipulate or abuse or do whatever to, I've decided I can forgive
you like that.
Uh, it's way easier to be a center in religion than it is to be
a shitty, unethical person out of it.
I think it, I think it, uh, you touched on something there.
That's, that's, um, that I know it's because it's, it's
interesting how a lot of these, you know, you know, pastors and
stuff who preach this condemnation of homosexuality or
masturbation or whatever, like who's that one, uh, Ted Haggert,
who's back in the day, you know, 10 years ago or something.
This is Ted Haggert.
He, he like debated rich, rich, yeah, debated Richard Dawkins
and he was like a big like, um, you know, preaching by a prostitute.
Yeah.
He's getting, you know, he's getting, he was getting, he was
preaching all the time against homosexuality and then he was
spending his, um, his, uh, what is it weekends or whatever,
just getting slammed with a prostitute and doing meth.
Like, and you just like, I wonder why that is.
And you know, you can put it down to, you can, the easy answer
is obviously like, oh, these people are just scumbags or whatever.
Um, I don't think that's, that tells the whole story.
I think what happens is I think people, and I'd love to get your
thoughts on this, but I think people, they go into the religion
and they, you know, they, they kind of led to these conclusions
because of, uh, the, the, the holy texts or whatever and they
get more and more pragmatic, but it doesn't actually work.
And it's like that, that old saying, like a hungry man dreams
of eating a horse and the rich man thinks of what dessert he'll
eat.
For me, I used to love pornography as a teenager, but I used to
try so hard not to watch it, not to masturbate, not to look at
someone with lust.
And at the end of the week, when you've like, this, you know,
you're like, not, you know, you're not having any, you don't
haven't done anything sexual.
Haven't you, you've, you've, you've very your eyes from every,
you've bounced your eyes from every single, um, attractive
person you've seen, you're like bursting at the seams and then
you spend seven hours downloading pornography on dial up
and that's the reality.
Like, do you know what I mean?
Like it's like,
Oh baby.
I'm, I'm, I'm Ash, but it's like, you know, so it's, it's,
it's, I wonder if it's the same thing.
It's like, it's like, um, that starvation of whatever desire
you have actually grows it to be bigger, to be, uh, and then
as, and then you take it out on the congregate, you take your
sexual and angry frustrations out of a congregation, like,
yeah, uh, in a way, you know,
Yeah.
No, I definitely think, I mean, I've made the observation
before that like, I almost wonder if I wish I could get rid
of everything, like take away all of the bad things that
Mormonism gave me because at the end of the day, the prohibition
on titties is probably why I'm obsessed with them.
Um, and what I want to lose my love and, you know, it's just
what I want that to be gone.
I enjoy my enjoyment of titties.
And, uh, I was talking to, uh, one of my gay friends, um,
back when he was the only gay friend I had, and we're talking
about titties.
And he's like, I just don't know.
He's like, I don't know how you can find them attractive.
He's like, like, what do I do?
Do I push him out of the way?
Like, wait, like, I'm like, no, dude, like you, you want a meal
all up in your face.
You don't want to push him away.
Like, I don't know what he was talking.
Every look, here's the thing.
Is there going to be somebody out there?
Sure.
And maybe he's the one, but most queer people, most queer
people, most gay men still love titties.
It's just a fact.
There's this thing about everyone to straight women love.
Like it's, it's just a universally loved thing.
The number of gay people who liked it, gay men who like titties
is, is higher than the number who don't.
It's, it's the outliers are the ones who don't.
It doesn't mean that they would then do things with titties
or that they would still have sex with a woman or anything.
I'm just saying let's not erase or unaffiliate, uh, uh,
a gayness with tittie love because you should be allowed to have both.
I think straight dudes like Dick, but I think that as well.
But I think that it's Dick in a certain con, like I think this is,
this is me being power.
This is me stepping way outside of the field of anything I know,
but me trying to psychoanalyze in the entire world.
But I think that the, the male, the male dick, I'm healthy.
I'll just say that a dick has become sexualized for those who watch a lot
of pornography because they associate an erect penis with pleasure.
I wonder if like there's a, there's a way that like, um, I wonder if
like something that's going, it's like, I reckon if you wind up as a straight
person that would never like, like, let's say in super straight, whatever,
they would not say that they are, you know, they are attracted to dicks or
anything like that.
But I reckon you could find some form of sexual arousal if you wind up
their brain and just show them erect penises after erect penises.
Even, you know what, I won't even say erect penises.
I'll say like Miami mansions.
I reckon there's some association because that's just all you see in like porn
these days.
Someone who watches a lot of porn is probably building these associations.
Again, this is totally outside of my realm of expertise,
but I wonder if it's the same thing with titties.
I wonder if it's like titties are like glorified in society.
So it's like they become attractive.
Not anymore.
Right now it's, it's been the last decade.
It's been the decade of ass and it hasn't rounded back around to we tittie
people.
We, we, we tittie prefer our titties over ass or a dying breed, I guess.
But no, I don't know.
There's, there's actually lots of really fascinating stuff that when it comes
to porn and sexuality and the difference between, because it's like on the one
hand, yes, I think you're right that it's almost, you're, you almost
depersonalized.
You almost just go, that's a dick.
It's a huge porn dick.
And so this is a tool of the pornography and that they're attached to it.
Isn't the thing that like gets you because if a second penis that enters
and all they do is rub those two sex tools against each other, those same
straight men suddenly aren't enjoying that.
Yeah.
Then brought to, to a woman.
They want to see fuck.
There is some interesting stuff they've done in the past too, where like it was
surprising how much when you watch, when straight men watched sex that they
would actually focus more on, on like the woman's face and expression.
They become more excited by her expressions of enjoying herself and
that they basically ignore many, many men.
I'm sure that there's, there's outliers and stuff, but they basically ignore
the experience of the man himself.
In fact, it's very common to not like to hear a man moan in porn.
Like the, the way, if they're doing their end shot and they're doing the
clip out, clip it, clip it.
I don't like that.
Oh, you see, I think my, my taste of develop over years, I would consider
myself straight.
But I don't know.
This is something I wanted to talk to you about actually is like labels and
sexuality.
Actually labels and everything.
I saw, I saw you talking to someone on Stacey's episode.
I watched that pretty much the whole way through where they called up and
they're like, I don't know if I'm an atheist.
I don't know.
And it was like, and they were, they were really conflicted with the label.
Like they didn't, they, they weren't sure if they wanted, like they wanted to
know the definition of what an atheist was because they wanted to know if
they fit that category.
And it seemed like quite distressing for them.
And I see the same thing with like, I'm straight.
I'm bi.
I'm, you know, pansexual.
I'm gay or whatever.
It's like, I'm straight, I would say, but it, it's kind of like putting
myself in that box in that, in that box of like, I'm straight in that kind
of limit.
Like what if a sexy dude comes up and I'm like, I'm attracted to this person.
Like, do I, like, like what's the purpose of putting myself in that box
when you could kind of just be.
I think you just, it's kind of like the word you feel like describes you
right now.
You just go with it.
The problem with the label is when you treat it like prescriptive.
So if you want to go as straight right now, it doesn't bother me, but if a,
if a gay guy approaches you and you're like, actually, I do want to make
out with him and he's down, then do it.
Don't, hey, don't worry about weight, but I'm straight.
I can't do it.
No, why the fuck can't you?
And by the way, it's something that's understood.
There's lots and lots and lots of straight women understand.
Well, I hope that your wife will let you bang a guy if you want to.
I don't want to bang it a bit.
I appreciate it.
It's okay.
Let's talk it.
Lots and lots of straight women already know the experience because it's not a
stigmatized in society of, yes, I'm straight, but, you know, I put that to the
test a little bit and still had a good time.
And yet at the end of the day, I'm still straight.
Like the, the trope almost of your, your straight, except in college, nobody
questions that or is bothered by it because it's what you feel like you are.
It's whatever, you know, you feel like, and so, yeah, I know there.
And I'm sure it blows a lot of people in mind when you meet a woman, you're like,
have you ever fucked another woman?
Yes.
Did you enjoy it?
Are you, so you're bi?
No, I'm straight.
You know, like, I know who you are.
I heard a podcast once where the person was claiming to be straight, but
exclusively watched lesbian porn.
And I know, I use sense of women like that.
That's like, that's not something common.
Yeah, it's like, but is that straight?
Like, like, it's a, it's a, it's, these labels are only there in my
opinion to serve like utility.
They're just like descriptions, I guess, of like how we try and organize
identity.
And, and that's why, like, I don't understand when we talk about the,
you know, transgender identity.
That's why I fully, I really don't understand people's like issue with
like trying to get down to like molecular biology, like scientific facts from
like, you know, they want to like, they want everyone to walk around with
like, they're like genome printed out and be like, let me check your genome
before we have a conversation.
Cause I don't know to address you as a hero, a him or a she or a her.
Like it's, to me, it's just, it's, it's, it's, it's, I don't understand
that because I just see words as like a tool for like communication
naming and how to engage, um, you know, uh, yeah.
Anyway, I mean, look, if you, if you decide to suck a dick and then tell me
you're straight, I'll still talk.
So call you straight.
If there's a yummy, but it's an isolation.
I'm not worried about it.
I don't want to, I don't want to suck a dick, Jimmy, but you can call me gay if
you like.
I make this joke all the time.
We have a newborn, um, at least nearly four months old.
Um, and, uh, I always make the joke that if he was, if he grew up to be straight,
I'd love him anyway.
Like I would totally be there.
You know, I wouldn't send him to straight conversion therapy.
I wouldn't, you know, try and pray the straight away.
You know, I would just, I would accept it.
I mean, I, I'm sort of one of those people who I, while I don't go with the
full, like everybody's bisexual, uh, thing that some people do, there's some,
there's something in that though that isn't wrong.
And I think that once there's a full de-stigmatization, de-stigmatizing
de-stigmatization, once it's completely de-stigmatized, uh, I think that there's
going to be, I think you're going to find that just fucking whoever you want to
fuck and not worrying about the label is going to become more the default.
And then there, but there will be some, I honestly think orientation will be
treated more like preferences in the future.
It's going to be like, you know, whatever, I don't care.
It doesn't, cause right now, right now you have the opposite that people do
understand that it doesn't make a gay person viscerally uncomfortable to
watch a straight couple make out, right?
It's nothing.
Like this is just a thing.
Uh, this is just a thing that happens all the time.
And yet so many straight people have a visceral negative reaction to gay people
making out.
Not so much girls.
Yeah, but not so much girls, but guys.
Right.
Unless you go shit, but like, but like two gay men, there's this visceral
reaction to that's a learned behavior.
I think that goes away in the future.
And you just have this sort of default of like, no, you know, if a dude, if
somehow it was, you know, I don't think I want a dude or I don't think I want
this specific set of genitalia as far as preferences go.
Yeah.
I think, I think orientation will in the long run be more like preference
whereas today orientation is focused a whole lot more on people's, uh,
restraints because of something that is holding them back.
I feel like we're defining ourselves more by our limitations instead of by
our, what we just by who we are.
I think, and this is me psychoanalyzing outside of my field again.
When I say field, I've got a marketing degree.
I've got no field, but I'm just trying to get across the point.
I don't know what I'm talking about, but I have a theory that like when you
see, when you see the reason why people get a negative reaction to seeing to
by a straight person might have a negative reaction to seeing two men kissing
or two women kissing is because I think watching someone kiss is an inherently
sexual thing.
You're seeing someone will see someone heavily kiss like make out.
It's like inherently like it's a sexual thing, which is subconsciously in some
party of brain arousing, but then you have that disconnect of like, oh, it's
arousing, but I don't like that.
It shouldn't be arousing.
So you have that like it's like internal homophobia almost.
It's like, it's like, you see, it's arousing to you, but it shouldn't be in
your mind and your in your schema and your in your brain, how you've like kind
of conceptualize the world because you're like, I am straight.
So I agree with you.
I think that what happens eventually is when we get rid of these.
I don't think that's always the case though.
Like I think I think that you can be a straight person.
In other words, like, oh, so like going back to the example of a gay person
watching a straight couple kiss, I think to them it's nothing.
Like even if it's making out, it's not arousing for them.
It's literally just like, this is the, you know, that's what they're doing.
And so if anything, I think it's more like when people are mad at watching two
men kiss and it's much more often men that are that way because there, there
are lots of women who are straight who find it hot watching men kiss and
or fuck each other, sort of in the reverse of men being attracted to
lesbians, just by the fact that they are straight.
It's almost like a, it's almost like a no.
The way the world is supposed to work is I'm a man and you're only going to
present me making out if it's something I want to be aroused by.
Otherwise, I'd be supposed to hide everything.
So it's almost the opposite of me.
It's almost like they're mad because making out is happening in a way that
isn't built to arouse them in the same way that I almost think you might have
people who would be mad at watching two people.
They're very unattracted to making out.
Like if you, if you find overweight people like myself unattractive.
If me and Jimmy were making out, you might be like double mommy.
You might be fine if it was just him and I just being gay.
But the fact that we're, we're fat and bearded or whatever.
Maybe people might like that too.
Are we like bears?
I don't know if it would be bears or not.
Like it's out of like.
Yeah.
I like to pretend I'm, I'm still on Otter, but I, I'd say at some point in
the last year of stress eating, I definitely, I went, I became a bear for sure.
I worked my way back down to twink one day, but you know,
I'm in a group chat.
I'm in a group chat called overgrown twinks.
So that's,
I was a twink for a long time.
I send you a photo over Twitter.
You can't show it.
Let me see if I can just show you me.
The reason why you can't show it is cause there's another person's photo.
There's another person in the photo.
Otherwise I wouldn't care.
It's not like a new or anything.
No.
I mean, I can take it.
Let me see if I can figure out how to quick cover.
I'll just crop, I'll just crop out and then you can do whatever you want.
Uh, how do I do that on this edit photo?
Anyway, yeah, it's, uh, uh, man, this guy.
Well, let, let me, let me read out the super chat from, um,
holy humanist Nuri Khan, one of my favorite, um, people mega late here,
but loving the chat.
Um, exactly.
Jimmy, some of us sin less after leaving.
We need to get the sitting up fellows and make it worth the while.
Actually, that's a question I want to ask our chat as Jimmy finds this amazing image.
Um, what's your face in, if you're, if you've left your,
if you've left your, if you're here, if you've left your religion,
what's your faves?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's me at like 22, 23, just an absolute coked out twink dancing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You can try if you like.
I don't care.
Uh, uh, look at that guy.
What a fucking what a twink.
You can't really see it because of the way the shirt has been.
I'm like, I'm like 30 pounds underweight.
I'm surprised there's not powder in my mustache in that photo.
Do you know what's the best part is you go to, I had,
I rocked a similar go to that.
Like a, not the mustache.
I couldn't grow the mustache or just had the bottom of it.
But I wanted, I want to facial hair my entire life.
The moment at like at 16, I could kind of grow my sideburns lower.
So I grew them as low as they would go.
And then I'd overgrow them so that that,
that I could like make them look, look longer.
And then, uh, there was some points in college where I had like the pencil
thin douchebag beard, you know, I'm talking about the, the like,
and even then there's like these little gaps that I still have in my beard
that these little bald spots.
Uh, so they weren't per, I, I, I, every time I have the maximum amount
of facial hair I've ever been able to have, I've had, uh,
I wanted it my whole life.
And now it's God like this beard.
I need to, I need to, um, I need to show a little quick snippet of me
because I went on a similar journey.
I was once thin.
Um, and, uh, I'll just show a quick little,
I just know that there's a preaching.
Yeah, here we go.
So this is back when I was a youth pastor.
This is one of my videos, not there.
So that's back when I was a youth pastor, quite thin,
but I was still a bit overweight there.
This is one of the first times I preach ready.
Look at that boy.
Look at that supple young, hairless boy.
I was just, I was riding my pushback everywhere.
I'd ride up to Woolworths to go shopping.
I went to, to work.
Um, yeah.
It's just, uh, I don't remember.
Let me see if I can find the tweet to send you the, uh, uh,
because I think I used the phrase booger sugar in it.
Uh, referring to cocaine.
Uh, man.
Fuck.
The man Twitter side.
Twitter dude.
Yeah.
I just, uh, every time I, um, I'm like connecting with someone
on Twitter, I'm like, can we just, and we're talking a little,
like, can we connect on Facebook or something?
Like I, I hate messaging on Twitter.
Like you can't send audio messages.
You can't like it's just, it's, it's so frustrating.
Um, so, um,
Oh, it's Instagram.
That's why.
No way.
But it was.
Oh, I called it nose clams.
That was a, uh, that's a reference always sunny in Philadelphia.
Some delicious nodes, clams.
All right.
Hang on.
Now I know I'll send the tweet.
I just got to show you this, uh, this one that shows really how
much coke I was doing.
Cause you can like, you can make out like the texture of my
non-existent muscles.
It's, it's even like, even, even your like face,
see how you got like these, these like, it's like, it's sucked in.
Like it's skin sucked right into the, um, on your temple, right?
Like, yeah.
Let's see.
Uh,
Fuck it.
Copy link.
I'm putting it in your, uh, your feed too.
Uh, it's like, there's like, you can see one of my main veins and
my L in the inside of my elbow.
Jimmy.
I know how much,
how much, how much drugs we doing?
Enough.
Oh geez.
Yeah.
Damn.
And it looks like too, like, where are you in these?
Like that looks like you're in a saloon.
Yeah.
So it was a bar called the Cadillac Ranch in Cheyenne,
Wyoming.
Uh, and you went there to swing.
It was like a swing dance night or something.
So I'm swing dancing with my best, my best friend from high
school, uh, is, is whose hand you can't.
You, you see and cut off, but.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That was, uh, that was, that was peak tweak, peak,
twink, Jimmy Snell.
That's, that's amazing.
I, um, so, um, just to keep this at an reasonable amount of
time, I want to, I want to ask the audience to throw some
questions at you.
Um, so, but I've got a bit of a surprise and, um, so you're a
fan of Elder Scrolls, right?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
So just, just to, and this is what I do for D and D.
You got time.
Fuck yourself.
Oh man, I should have, if I could, if I, if I had access,
I would have paid together to happen, but, um, but just,
just to kind of give us the ambience.
So just get us into the zone.
I've just got some beautiful background music that'll just
play throughout the Q and A section.
So let me know if you can hear it.
Um,
if you're worried about the copyright.
No, it's,
Oh,
if you played it, it drowns you out.
You can't.
Oh, wait.
Can you, it takes, it usually takes a couple of seconds to
kick to, to, to even out.
Is it better now?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It takes,
No, no, no.
Because this is something that, uh, not to conformant to
me is Elder Scrolls music, which music, all that stuff is
great for your videos because they don't select, do any
copyright stuff to it because they, because people play
games with it, right?
So that all that music from all that stuff is great for,
um, background.
Is that too loud for everyone?
Or is that, is that okay?
Perfect for me.
Ah, sweet.
Cool.
I'm just waiting for it to abruptly go, Hey there.
Yes.
Okay.
Um, so I have a question I ask all the guests, right?
And, um, this is, this is a question that I really want to
get your answer on.
I want you to really think about this.
Okay.
It's how the realm of oblivion.
So let's say a genie comes out of nowhere.
Well, let's say, well, just say, forget this part, but
essentially like, you know that there is a God.
Yeah.
You discovered that there is a God.
Maybe I'm going to turn this down a little bit.
It's probably fractured.
Yeah.
That's better.
Um, so you know that there is a God.
And you know this genie or whatever tells you that one of the
world religions that is a theistic religion is true.
Yeah.
What is the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe
in?
So you have to choose one that you think is most likely to be
true out of the ones that you obviously don't believe in.
It's like asking which one of these dog shits would you like to
eat?
And granted, like there's an answer, but on the surface, it's
hard to analyze.
Well, it's not even, it's not even, it's not the one you'd like
to eat.
It's the one that you think would have the nuts inside it.
Like it's like, which one is the poo with the nuts?
You know, inside or like, what's, what's the, you know, it's,
it's, it's, it's a, it's a claim about truth, not about.
Okay.
So I think what I would go with is, uh, I mean, there's the, I
feel like there's the cop out of universalist Unitarians because
they don't even make that many truth claims.
Like you don't even really have to believe to be one.
Uh, and, but it's sort of like Christian cosplay progress.
It's like, it's like a cosplay of progressive Christianity, but
they really don't give a fuck if you actually believe.
Um, the, the direction that I've seen certain elements of the
community of Christ, which is an offshoot of Mormonism go isn't
terrible.
Uh, Islam's garbage.
So I mean, there's no redeeming Islam.
Um, fucking, which, and I even somewhat feel that same way,
even about the community of Christ thing, because it's like,
at the end of the day, it still comes back to Joseph Smith,
but it would mean that it was correct that Joseph Smith needed
to fuck that 14 year old.
Uh, and for the same premise, I'm not going to try and redeem
it.
I'm fucking a nine year old.
Uh, so.
What about like East?
You got Buddhism, Hinduism, Jainism.
Buddhism doesn't have a theistic claim, does it?
Some do.
Some, some sects do.
I will.
I will.
Reincarnation, but not theism.
I think there's some sects that believe in that have theism,
I think, like a, like a God, a Buddhist God.
Uh, I mean, one could claim that the reincarnation of a Buddha
is somewhat theistic, but it's technically not.
Apparently no, it doesn't.
Yeah.
Buddhism's not theistic.
And I think in all of its forms.
There's a, it looks like there are gods, but none are like creator
gods.
Like there's not like a ultimate God.
That's what it ends.
I think the concept of reincarnated Buddhas are, is the closest
thing they have to God.
It's not even in that scenario.
It's like, it's not.
I'll let you cop out with the Buddha's argument, but I want a
second best as well.
And if you, if you.
What was some of the other options you gave me?
Jainism, Jainism, Hinduism, um, bunch of hippies.
Dude, I, on my other channel, I've read out the name of every
single God on this website and took four hours and I sat there
the whole time without moving and did it.
Um, I can't remember consistent with my, but like, uh, probably
just some sort of paganism, some sort of like, uh, yeah, some sort
of something that's cool and also is sort of exists in that
realm of your world and life doesn't actually have to be
any different.
Um,
But that seems more like a, you're answering it based on just
like how enjoyable it is versus like whether or not you think
it's true.
Like what if it was like a million dollars?
Like what if it was like a million dollars and you got like,
if you picked the right God, I think I'd lose.
I don't think there's a way to win.
That's the thing is it's like, they're all so equally
pleasant.
Like Christianity.
That isn't an option.
If the genie shows up and says, actually one of the religions
is right.
It ain't Christian.
It's no version of Christianity.
Like I'm a hard atheist when it comes to Christianity.
That is,
Well, what about
So like you go like Judaism, right?
And it's like Judaism is incorrect.
And then you're like, well, then Christianity just adds more
stuff.
So it's extra incorrect.
Mormonism adds even more stuff.
It's extra,
It's definitely incorrect.
Cause Moses definitely didn't exist.
Right.
And that's like the most important character in theistic.
Well,
I think there's like,
Dr. Josh Bowlin says there's like a 10% chance that he existed
and Abraham's like a 1% chance and he's a seriologist.
I didn't, yeah,
I didn't know he thought that there was a 10%.
My understanding is that it's impossible.
And if you had a character,
you could say this is who they mean,
sort of like the mythicist type of Moses,
like you have with Jesus where it's like,
Jesus didn't actually exist,
but maybe there's a person that they're mistaking him for,
the sort of mythicist position of Moses.
Like it's still,
the exodus is for sure not true,
which it's that actual story.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Was there a guy named Moses?
It's like,
Yeah, sure.
Just,
Yeah.
We haven't just,
just as we continue this question,
we just,
we have someone who maybe is presented a really good argument,
um,
repent and believe the gospel.
Yeah.
Deal.
Come to Jesus and be saved.
And it's all in all caps.
What do you think?
I didn't have to,
I don't have to come to Jesus because I've already come in Jesus.
Um,
Jesus is having my butt baby.
So,
James,
I don't know what you're saying.
Jesus came to me.
Jesus has left the chat.
Jesus left the chat.
Come into Jesus.
He'll surely,
I don't know.
Anyway.
Um, so.
Yeah.
So which religion?
Give us a, give us,
give us,
it's a hard one.
This is a hard one.
And this is the beautiful,
beautiful thing about this question is I asked the,
it's the same thing.
So I asked Dan,
I asked,
you know,
I mean,
the answer is the answer is some sort of deistic.
You want to even have a tradition,
but basically like if the genius,
like somebody's got it right,
I would say like,
okay,
pick your favorite deist who's actually a deist and doesn't
think,
because every time you investigate deism with a deist,
they suddenly start making claims and you're like,
so that.
Yeah.
Like you're,
you're,
you're still like wrong.
It's like, yeah, dog.
Like this isn't,
this isn't what you think it is.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like surely that's it.
And it's like,
not even to me,
it would be like fucking,
okay,
somebody's right.
It's like,
all right.
Like a simulation and the coders are God.
Like that would be the one that I would probably go with,
like some sort of simulation hypothesis thing.
Cause that I can at least wrap my mind around of like,
you,
that we one day will be that kind of God to some sort of
conscious computer seems likely.
So just to say like,
yeah,
switch it.
That's what we're doing.
Um,
that's the closest I can give,
like give.
Yeah.
Okay.
That's good.
That's good.
Like,
Yeah.
Most people just ask this question sometimes cause they want you to
say like, well, you know,
I could see why Catholicism seems reasonable,
but no, it's like,
they're all so,
they're all so wrong.
Catholicism is false.
Like it's untrue.
So clearly untrue that it's,
to say like somebody got it right means you have to go into
some of the more fringe beliefs that are more hypotheses that it's
like,
I don't know.
So Neil deGrasse Tyson made a joke about simulation theory.
That's my guess.
Okay.
Cool.
That's good.
Um,
so regarding your belief in God.
Um,
this is another,
another bang a question from the brilliant mind.
You see,
I do the opposite with compliments.
I like embrace them as like hard as I can and turn them into a joke,
but this comes from the brilliant mind of myself.
Actually,
no, it doesn't actually,
that's a lie.
It came from the Ken Ham and Bill Nye debate.
What,
if anything would change your mind?
Uh,
to,
to which proposition?
Just that a God exists?
Hmm.
Um,
but depending on which God exists.
So if it's a deistic God,
I don't know that you could ever present me evidence.
If,
if the God of deism exists,
it's actually still most reasonable to be an atheist.
Um,
because there,
there wouldn't be,
there still wouldn't be evidence of that God.
Until you like get a picture of it,
because you somehow get a big bang camera,
which is technically impossible because light doesn't escape,
uh,
the mass that,
you know,
things don't actually start expanding out in any way that we'd be able to get to
until a few hundred billion years after the big bang.
Um,
but,
uh,
so,
uh,
what was the original question again?
What if anything would change your mind?
Yeah,
it would,
it depends on the God.
Um,
because at this point,
if you tried to go give me proof that looks like pretty good proof of the,
of,
of a Catholic God or a Mormon God or any Christian God,
my initial response is going to be figure out what the scam is because there's so much evidence.
It's not true now.
Uh,
that it can't be true that I would now need to know how I was either being
fooled right now or how I was fooled with mountains of evidence
before that it couldn't be true.
Um,
so,
so,
yeah,
like a Christian.
Yeah.
To believe in the,
not just that,
that that God exists,
but the method by which I was deceived by DNA and anthropology and history and,
and,
uh,
biology and all of these,
like,
like how did the full,
it's kind of like proving flatter.
What if anything would prove to you that the earth is flat?
Because it wouldn't just be satisfying to say someone shows me a picture of the flat earth,
or somebody takes me out in a rocket and shows me the flat earth,
because immediately my brain would go to,
okay,
I'm looking down at the flat earth from this rocket.
How am I being deceived?
Because I know so many of the proofs of the round earth.
And I've done some of the experiments myself.
So my initial reaction is,
how is this rocket trip scamming me?
And then if you satisfied me to see the satisfaction that I wasn't being scammed would be showing me how all of those other proofs,
the times that the round earth was proven were a scam.
Um,
so it's hard to.
Hard to.
On a side note with flat earth,
because I'm a flat earth and the evidence for,
no, I'm not.
You're like,
dude, dude,
Jimmy has left the chat.
No,
so I,
I've worked for a surveying and town planning company.
I'm actually on my launch break at the moment.
And,
one,
and we actually have to put algorithms into our data recorders to project 3d,
2d plans onto a 3d earth.
So like the whole industry that I'm a part of would be have to be fake in order for,
you know, like,
it would have to be a big scam.
I'm getting paid.
And,
you know,
all the work that we're doing is all big fast because this,
you know,
it would be a big scam.
And when I bring this out,
it's like your mind to like,
if you found out that level of thing,
you,
it would probably drive you to a point of doubt and stuff that borderlines on crazy.
Imagine if you were in a Truman show, do you know the Truman show?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Imagine if it was then revealed to you that you were in a Truman show,
how would you ever spend the rest of your life being sure that you weren't still in a new season?
Right.
Part of the show wasn't showing you, you're in a Truman show.
Hmm.
Because in my mind,
that's like an amazing idea for season two season one is the first 35 years of his life.
And then he turns 35,
we reveal he's in a Truman show and he thinks he's discovered it himself.
But in reality,
we just increased the size of the set to what he associates with the size of planet Earth.
But in reality,
we're over on Jupiter,
which we've convinced him as a gas giant.
He called it a gas giant and he hasn't figured it out.
Like you would,
it would fuck up your head so much to find out you were in that you were deceived to that level,
to the point that you would never trust any truth again.
And you would assume or not assume,
but you would be in a state of like,
okay, but is this a Truman?
Is this,
is this season two?
Is this,
and that's like the level of,
of to convince me of the Christian God would mean you would have to show me a level of deception.
Yeah.
It's possible.
A falsehood and then show me the correction.
And then I would probably,
my mind would break in a similar way and go,
if I was deceived that much before,
how were,
how is this group deceiving me now?
It would just totally fuck your head.
My younger brother was lived in Japan for a few years and he was in this share house
and they had a bunch of people from all over the world kind of stay there.
And one of the other girls that came over was from China
and they eventually had to sit her down and be like,
look Tiananmen Square,
like all this other stuff.
And she had a meltdown,
realizing that like all the history that she had learned in her life and everything was like just wrong.
And well, not everything,
but like a good majority of it was just wrong.
The Western world was not falling apart.
Like the Communist Party says it is and,
you know,
and it was just for her,
broke her.
Like she was like,
what do I know?
How do I know what's true?
And it's like,
with people who leave fundamentalist religion and kind of stay shitty for a while.
Cause it's super common to like leave Mormonism and become libertarian
and become like all of these things of like,
of going,
well now I will only believe things that have this standard of proof.
And even though I don't realize it,
culturally I'm going to separate things that I,
so for example,
you got a lot of ex Muslims do this to ex Mormons and ex Muslims are oddly similar,
where being transphobic is super common,
just generally anti queer,
being libertarian and wanting just as little other stuff in your life to influence you.
I'm pretty patient with these people because I think this is what's happened when you're disillusioned with Mormonism,
you're like,
I never want to be deceived again,
but you over correct into self deception.
It's like a conspiracy theorist.
I never want to believe a lie again because I found out about this one conspiracy that was a lie.
So in the interest in never believing a lie again,
I will now believe the biggest lies in my over correct.
Yeah, it's a,
I call it conspiracy theory sickness.
It's like where you see like your uncle and you're like,
I don't have an uncle that does this,
but I'm just using it as an example.
You have an uncle who's like,
starts researching like 9 11 was an inside job and then like,
give him like a year and they're telling you like how,
you know,
that Trump is going to take back,
you know, the world with,
you know,
what is it,
QAnon and all that stuff.
Like any,
they're just off the whack.
That's still,
that's still like conspiracy theorists have gotten way worse than that.
Cause everything you just said could still happen in the natural world.
They,
it's not just that.
It's literally fucking,
and by the way,
demons,
you can smell the soul for coming off of Hillary.
I watched Alex Jones.
You know,
I heard when you,
and you meet a Hillary Clinton,
everyone says they just,
they smell like soul.
You can smell the demons coming off of them.
And then they're fucking,
he,
you see like little corners of scales cause they're actually lizard people.
Like it's the level of nuts it gets is fucking crazy.
Well,
that's,
so that's how I,
that's how I actually answered the question.
You know,
I was stopped by a street preacher and asked this question.
I didn't have a good answer.
And I went away and thought about it for a,
you know,
a few weeks and I need time to process things.
And I,
I,
the question he was asking was similar to what I asked you,
which was,
you know,
how,
what would you need to be convinced of the truth of Christianity?
And,
you know,
I went through a bunch of different answers and test them in my head.
And then I thought,
the actual answer is I would need to believe,
whatever it would take me to believe in a married bachelor or a squared circle,
I would need that amount of evidence.
Like it's,
it's contradictory.
It doesn't work.
Like it's,
it's contradicted stuff.
Now you could say the Christian God exists and that the Bible is just wrong.
Okay.
I could,
I could get on board with that.
But to say that the Bible is an errant and the Christian God exists.
And then try to like tap dance around.
Like,
well,
no as far as what did happen.
That's how we get fossils on top of mountains and like,
and just like science denial or maybe it was allegory and do what like,
you know,
you know,
there's a person in your chat right now and it's totally distracting me.
There's a person in chat telling people that Dunning Kruger isn't real.
And I know why they make this claim because there's a,
there was one popular article that called it in a question and then other people
have sort of repeated it.
And so now people on the basis of very little information,
arguments that sound good,
but aren't necessarily sound and no peer review will now say on that basis,
Dunning Kruger isn't real,
but that's not the most ironic,
hilarious fucking thing in the world.
You're literally Dunning Krugering,
the Dunning Kruger effect.
You double Dunning.
Well done.
You got a double Dunner there.
Double Dunner.
I love that.
Double Dunner.
Oh, Tim,
looks like you might have been joking around because he says I'm no fun.
But I don't know.
It's just,
I've seen people unironically say that when you bring it up.
And I'm just like, it's like that.
And the fallacy fallacy that people like to go like,
there's a fallacy and it's like not a fallacy at all.
No, it exists.
The fallacy fallacy exists,
but it's not,
it's not the way people use it.
So there was a YouTuber who used to be quite popular on a specific show.
I'm not going to say who it was,
but he was doing a show and he was arguing with somebody.
And the person was literally like,
you just said this and this and that's a fallacy.
And he goes, well, did you know that calling things a fallacy is a fallacy?
That's the fallacy fallacy to defend from the fact he wanted you to not pay
attention to the fact that he had just committed a fallacy.
The guy was dog shit at debate.
Basically it's an atheist.
The reason why I'm not saying who it was is because I don't like the person
and I'm glad they don't really make content anymore.
But anyway,
they were like, well,
calling something a fallacy is a fallacy.
It's called the fallacy values.
And no, the fallacy fallacy is the fallacy in which if somebody makes a fallacy,
you say they are wrong because they made a fallacy.
In other words, like if I say the earth is round and then I make,
let's say a red herring fallacy to go, nope,
you just made a red herring fallacy.
Therefore you're wrong and the earth is flat.
That's the fallacy fallacy.
It includes the conclusion you are wrong on the basis that you made a fallacy.
But I think you said the word fallacy about 30 times there
and my brain is like ringing.
That's a fallacy fallacy.
So it's a fallacy.
It's the fallacy fallacy and it's the fallacy of saying fallacy, right?
No, no, no, it's the fallacy of saying something is wrong
because that a position is wrong because a person used a fallacy.
So it's not the fallacy of saying a fallacy that something is a fallacy
or being wrong.
So it's not even a fallacy fallacy to say, hey, that's a red herring fallacy
and then somebody and then it isn't.
That's not even the fallacy fallacy.
The fallacy fallacy is you said a fallacy therefore your position is wrong.
Oh, okay, okay, okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
Can you share a moment from?
I think I could be wrong.
I don't know if I'm wrong.
Somebody tell me.
Do you have a moment from and thank you guys.
Like this, like slap that like button and subscribe.
Got more amazing content coming up.
We've got 91 viewers, which is incredible.
Jimmy, people love you.
They just love you so much.
So Jimmy, everyone give Jimmy a compliment in the chat.
Thank you.
Everyone give Jimmy a compliment.
So can you share a moment from the line that like has significantly like made it.
So.
Like as significantly like grounded what you do and why like obviously like
humanism,
secular humanism and
and like making the world,
I guess a better place to sound like every tech in the world bloggers in the
world,
but you is is part of like the drive what you do.
But like,
have you got a moment where like someone's like told you something or said
something or a conversation that is just totally like,
this is why I do what I do.
There's something funny about
whenever somebody,
whenever somebody's excited to have me on for an interview,
I want to always set their expectation that it's not going to go the way they
expect so that I don't.
So that I don't disappoint because I definitely am no good at answering the
questions that people actually ask me.
The way that I think a lot of people are hoping because I don't really have an
answer to that.
It's like,
it's so important if you're doing the amount of work that I'm doing and you're
working as often as I'm working to basically not remember all the show.
Like it's actually a part of mental health.
I think if I just dwelled on every show,
so like I can probably remember some recent calls,
but there's probably way better examples from before.
So like a pivot,
like a moment that's like,
honestly, it's not even that it's not the moments on the show.
Aren't the reason why I feel like doing the show.
It's usually like people telling me how the shows have helped them outside of
the context of the show or that it was a major part of their deconstruction or
you know,
even little things like, Hey, I didn't realize I was a non-believer.
You helped me.
There was this specific thing.
I knew what I believed.
I just wasn't good at articulating it to other people,
but a specific example of something.
I mean, there are fun things.
I like every time I get to do like,
a lot of experiments live on air, like one time a person called.
Yeah.
And this was a pretty old one.
Cause I was still in,
I was still in that Denver set where you could see the highway behind me.
There was a guy who called who said that like,
he believes in God because if he asks God a question,
God always answers.
And I was like, what do you mean always?
He's like, always.
He's like, so if I ask a yes or no question,
God will tell you yes or no.
And he's like, yeah.
And I was like, okay,
if I flip a coin,
will God tell me what to do?
And I was like,
I don't know.
And he's like, yeah.
And I was like, okay,
if I flip a coin,
will God tell you what it is before it lands?
He goes, yes.
And I said, all right, let's test it.
Let's see.
Let's, and let's do a few.
And I literally was like, okay,
ask God what this coin outcomes going to be.
And he said heads.
And I flipped it.
And the first one was tails.
And he was like,
I'm really glad I talked to you because I,
until now I really believed this was true.
And now I got here going on.
And yeah, he was like,
he basically went from believing that to not believing it.
And all I had to do was one coin flip.
It was fucking awesome.
Imagine,
imagine like how dangerous that could be
if he went through like a mental episode or whatever.
Like I know,
I know people who have done too much acid
and started thinking they could talk to animals
and, and,
and like they believe like in telepathy
and all this stuff, right?
Like they start believing in some stuff.
But imagine,
like if that person was left unchecked like that
and then continued to believe that for years
and then had some sort of a episode
where those beliefs were created,
that could be dangerous.
Like you've,
you've done some good for the world there.
That's crazy.
So there's an experiment.
Man, I hope that I'm not,
I'm trying to remember where this came from.
I feel like it was a conversation with Matt and I,
I hope I'm not ruining a part of his show by saying this,
but there's an experiment you can do
where you could have a crowd of people
and you basically like,
let's say you have a crowd of 500 people in front of you.
You have everybody stand up
and you say,
raise your hand if you think the next,
I'm going to flip a coin,
raise your hand if you think the next flip is going to be heads
and everybody raise your hand and you flip it
and then it's either heads or tails.
And if it's heads,
you say everybody with your hand up,
stay standing, everyone with your hand down, sit down.
And then you have everybody and then you reset
and you do it again.
And the first time it's not at all interesting,
but by the time you get to the 10th coin flip,
there's still some people stood up.
And eventually you get to the point where
like 10 or 15 coin flips in a row,
somebody technically guessed right that many times in a row.
Because you have 500 people in front of you
and somebody's going to guess to some number.
So we'll call it 12.
Imagine that that has happened in your life
in a way that you can't see the mechanism going on.
You're not talking to a magician,
but you have 12 exact coincidences like that in a row
where everybody here is seeing it with 500.
But that one person out on the street
is still one of many billions of people.
Somebody out there is having things happen in a row to them
that seems so impossible.
I mean, I can even imagine being that person
in that audience and going,
I just got my 12th in a row.
Am I sure that this is not like not magic?
I could see a person questioning whether or not
they during the experiment might be able to predict the future.
Suddenly.
And so it's that sort of shit that like that's what
something like that happens to all of us.
These very unlikely things, these incredible coincidences,
things that we would think would be impossible
like guessing 12 coin flips in a row.
And yet if you have 500 people and you have them sit down
every time they get it wrong,
somebody's going to make it to 12.
I think 500 is right, but maybe it takes a thousand.
Okay, so you got 500 there, right?
And you got 12 coin flips in a row.
I think Richard Dawkins did something similar to this
back in the day.
But imagine that now extrapolate that number out to 8 billion.
How many people in the world now, 8 billion?
Yeah.
And then think about the person who has 500 coincidences in one day
and they go, this can't be, this can't be chance.
It's not just a matter of out of 8 billion people,
you'd be able to go way past 12 coincidences.
12 coincidences seems very unlikely to an individual,
and yet that level, 8 billion is so many
that some sort of 12 coincidences in a row
is going to happen to every single one of these 8 billion people.
It's just going to be a different one.
The number of things which can happen at different enlightenment.
So it's your mind frame and your understanding
that even the most unlikely thing,
as for example, being told to guess 12 in a row,
will happen to someone,
and something like that will happen to you.
And having the mindset and the skepticism
to go just because it seems super unlikely
doesn't mean I should eliminate the fact that
the likelihood of it being a coincidence,
because super unlikely things are bound to happen to everybody.
Yeah, it's definitely.
Guys, I think we might do a quick giveaway,
because you guys, there's so many people here,
and I want to say thank you.
So what we're going to do,
I'm going to ask Jimmy a last important question.
And what's the hashtag you use, Jimmy?
Is it go fuck yourself, Jimmy?
It's a J-Y, G-F-Y.
I don't use a particular hashtag.
That's more for the Translator Console,
but people will just write G-F-Y-J or J-G-F-Y is the acronym.
Okay, so if you post this in chat,
I'll send, at the end of this,
I'll send you a gift certificate for Amazon,
post that in the chat, exactly like that,
and we'll do a giveaway as we answer this last question.
And I'll give you an Amazon gift card
so you can buy a book or something,
or we'll work something out,
but it'll be a giveaway for, I don't know,
$25 Amazon by book with that, right?
So let's do that.
Let's do a giveaway amongst, somebody will win
who writes hashtag G-F-Y-J.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So right at the end, we've got five entries so far,
so just keep getting them in,
and as I asked Jimmy this last question,
and then we'll draw it at the end of this episode.
This is my thanks back to you for making sure you,
make sure you like and subscribe as well.
If you don't subscribe, you're not getting the damn gift card.
Now, is it $25 million or will it be real money?
You know what?
Let's do, let's do fucking U.S.
I wasn't trying to put it.
As a joke on the channel,
we call Canadian dollars, alleged dollars,
and we call it $1 million, just fake ones.
Digery dues.
No, $5 dollars, that's what they call it.
$25 dollars.
So, yeah.
So, Jimmy, okay,
so this is a conversation we've been having a lot
on deep drinks at the moment.
So, I consider myself an ally for the trans community,
for the LGBT community.
I try and stand up against bigotry and things like that,
but I also try to have conversations with people
that I don't agree with.
I recently had Chrissy Hansen on,
and we talked about should we platform bad faith actors?
I've been talking to Arden actually about this in DMs,
Arden Hart.
And the question is,
so,
so,
initially,
I had a stance that I would talk to almost anyone.
I'll talk to,
you know, there's probably not another situation
where I'd want to talk to them,
but I wouldn't be morally opposed to having, say, like,
a Nazi or a very horrible person on
to discuss their beliefs
as long as I could do that responsibly,
as long as I could do that in a way that was, like,
challenging and making them, like,
giving some critiques of their ideas.
That sounds quite harsh.
I probably would never actually have done anything like that.
But the point was, like,
I think that you can responsibly have conversations
about really hard topics.
I recently was called out on this
because it's very easy for me to be in that position
because I'm in a place of privilege.
I'm not affected by it.
For me, it's a fun chess game, right?
But at the end of the day,
trans folks are having, like,
actual rights being stripped from them
and women are having actual rights stripped from them
in the U.S. at the moment.
So to have a fun conversation with, you know,
or a deep conversation with someone about this
is not...
It goes against my...
The other part of the podcast,
which is I try to be an advocate for people
who are in marginalized groups.
So we had this conversation
about the pros and cons of deep-platforming
bad-faith actors.
And one of the pros was,
if you do deep-platform a bad...
Not bad-faith actor, sorry,
just a bad person,
then we...
Um...
Then it creates a social...
an environment for social ostrichalization,
which in which case they're more likely
to change their belief system
because they're socially pushed out of the circles.
And it's also...
It kind of forced them to change,
like get them to reconsider.
I had an argument with this...
Not an argument, but my argument against this,
like I was playing devil's advocate, was
I don't know if that's actually a good thing.
I didn't know if we should want people
to change their attitudes
on things like homophobia, transphobia,
racism, bigotry,
because of social ostrichalization.
I think they should change for rationale
and logic. I think we should be able to point...
We should force them to be able to consider
their worldviews, but I think they should arrive
at the conclusion for what I called
good reasons. Yeah. Chrissy said,
I don't care.
I would rather someone
just change their views.
And I was like, damn,
that's actually interesting.
I messaged Arden about this and Arden said,
oh, I'm totally down
for Arden Hart.
She's changed as well.
And she's like, I'm totally down.
Who?
Oh, yeah.
Arden is not only
a host on Transatlantic, but she's
the only other producer on the channel
as well. She's like my second
in charge, if you will.
Oh, awesome. So I've seen
her post behind the scenes stuff and I'm like,
that looks cool.
But she said, I'm totally down
for
shaming
people out of their positions.
In other words, people changing
their mind about things for
what I would consider bad reasons for shame and stuff.
And I was like, damn, I actually
think I've been a little swayed on this
opinion because and it made me realize
that the goals of philosophy.
So this podcast, Deep Drinks, Religion,
Philosophy, Human Rights, the goals of
philosophy, that is epistemology,
what is a rationally true world
view, blah, blah, blah, is actually
has different goals to the human
rights parts of this podcast.
That is, human rights is like
I've already determined what is
a human right and what needs protecting
etc.
So
therefore I'm advocating on behalf of those
those
the morality that I have. The philosophy part
is actually
a priori in its execution,
but it's like, you need to
it's like, that's a different conversation.
Does that make sense? So
in other words, and this is getting to a question
I promise, in other words
it's
it's it would be against the
grain for me to have someone on who's maybe
like
if I was to interview JK Rowling, for example,
who's said a bunch of trans
shit, I would never get a chance
to interview her anyway, but let's let's say what I have her on
that would actually be counter to my advocacy
as a human rights advocate, right, because
then I'm engaging with her about
philosophy about these ideas
but she's causing so much harm to the
transgender community
that I'm there then
they're platforming someone who's
creating these
toxic environments. What do you think about that?
I
there are elements I agree with and elements I disagree with.
Shame is a fine enough
reason to get a person to reassess
to say a person should hold
the belief I'm I believe
you know gay people should have human rights
because I'm too afraid to not believe
that is a terrible idea
that's just religion that's literally
a fucking religious
deal. But to have a person go
I was shamed
for being a bigot
and this is a social consequence
of my bigotry therefore I need to reassess
and figure out what the facts are
by some means
by which if I'm correct it's easy for me to share that
that's the way to
de-bigotize somebody anyway
I would 100%
have been
Shapiro or JK Rowling or
you know
I'm trying to think of other
detestable people Jordan Peterson
Peterson for sure Steven Crowder
Matt Walsh
Matt Walsh is a harder one because Matt Walsh
is sort of very
Matt Walsh is closer to the
line of just straight up
calling for genocide
I would have him on personally
so I could spit on him
The reason why I think
we have this conversation is because we
now live in an environment of everybody
no matter how good they have actually
demonstrated they are able to
think is platformable
and that's a problem with our side
also it's not a problem with their side
too. I think if you have
adequate representatives and people that you
can trust to do
a good job
who if they fuck it up and do a bad job will also
take responsibility for that
and say like yo my bad I
really fucked up that debate or whatever
that would be great but this is why I don't like debate much
and why our debate shows that we're going to be launching
are
going to follow a different formula that I think
are more important than the current
like debate bro formula
you have people who are very impressive debaters
and then you have everybody else
and yet we're doing all of them
it's like some fucking ridiculous person
and then there's also
as far as fringe things and things that aren't a real threat
I'm not going to debate David Duke
this was Matt's example I think recently
because the KKK is dying
like they are
exposure is what they want more than anything
and to treat them
like an actual threat
to society that we need to be debating
because they may be successfully
radicalizing people
it's not about the KKK
QAnon 2 you should be doing that with
at the moment if anybody
so shame is an adequate reason to
if you want to try and inspire somebody to
to
change their beliefs
because they feel so
embarrassed at the reception
of their broadcast that
by that's fine
but the thing is is I don't believe
people are correct
when they anybody who thinks that
the reaction to being shamed out of a
shame for a belief is to then
change the belief
without without good incentive
is delusional
it is these
counter communities
are growing they're not getting smaller
the anti trans movement
right now is louder than it's ever been
it's larger than it's ever been
even though
there are more accepting
people because in the past it was
it was more neutral people or people
just didn't know or didn't care or whatever
you can definitely argue that
the past was worse for trans people because
trans people felt more like they had to be
in the closet in the past
whereas now the opposition
is worse than ever even as the acceptance
is louder than ever too
they especially
in a world where if you get embarrassed
somewhere you can instantly
with your phone travel to a community
to where people are going to affirm you
tell you why the other people were wrong
and you were right I just don't understand
why a bunch of people who don't
I think feel like they hold any beliefs
for bad reasons
like shame
think that that would be good enough for other
people but as far as like a quick
remedy to try and get
to silence bigotry sure
like it's going to make a person be quiet
and if there's an immediate danger I
could see using that tool and
obviously I shame people when they call my show
and I will tell them like
this is the stupidest argument
I have heard in a long time
you are failing to think
that shame is meant to
make them go back and reassess but
the idea of like
I don't know the platforming stuff is very murky
and I think that you have to have people
who are adequate
representative and not just any
fucker go do it dilla hunty fighting
Jordan Peterson was one of the most
significant
of Jordan Peterson's
career where people went oh
shit this guy who I was listening to
and going like he's got good points I
just watched him use the same reasoning
on atheism which I know
why it was stupid and I'm starting
to apply that to some of the other shit
he says fuck I was wrong
about this guy that was a huge moment for
taking him down
what is it what was it
oh you can't quit smoking without a mystical
experience like what
what dog like what are you talking about
like yeah I know it's wild
clean your room
lobsters
hang on I can get there
with the hierarchy of lobster
sublation into the
consciousness of
both
yeah it's
what's he always say it's um
you don't it's not a good thing
you don't want to do that
up yours your moralist
bum we'll see
who can you
can you invite me onto the line one
time to do the whole episode
in Jordan Peterson voices the whole
time we don't break
it if you if your impression becomes
good
hang on let me just let me
it's like it's like um
suggested
something I think it was earlier today and I had
to say like we don't do
bits like it's a
super chat sure but like the line
isn't a place for characters
of bits reading super cats and voices
is fun but the show itself is not
we should
so maybe you should do an 18th show
where it's just bits
I mean the
same show the return of the
show will have lots of bits but
um
well just to just in just because
I don't want to
paint Arden in a bad light she gave a
lot of context I gave a really bad
bad
art in position I wasn't bothered
with it yeah yeah yeah I'll just
assume one heard
in a community of people that are literally
being attacked literally like I don't care
why a person suddenly stops I just
don't actually believe it where it happens
well I don't think a person's mind
changes because of
shame I think the shame can
incentivize a person
to now explore
that belief but I don't think anybody
actually goes I'm so ashamed my
view just changed
well it's changed I think
that it gets there's
different scales right maybe
five years ago having a conversation
about the validity of
um a trans identity or something
would have been
better but now
when when they're getting their rights
taken away imagine going to Nazi Germany
and then like interviewing a bunch of Nazis
and being like so what do you think about
you know the Jews like that would be
responsible like at some point the Nazis
needed one thing which was a bullet they needed
they needed like they needed there
to be taken down
they needed the Nazi party to be disbanded
they needed to be destroyed you couldn't
just have a conversation with them and that's
essentially what's happening with a lot of
value of a conversation
on a on a network between
gerbils and somebody who actually
could knock gerbils down
do you know what I mean like
or even Hitler like imagine the value
of that back then of de-masculating
Hitler and I'm
and so again I'm not saying the best thing
that ever happened was Hitler killed Hitler
it's the best thing he ever did
uh was killing him like don't like
that's obviously I'm sorry for your monetization
uh aspirations but
uh an amazing
thing and everything uh but as far as like
the value of and I'm not a debate
bro again I I shit
on the concept that so many people are debating
I'm not even sure I belong in that
space and I'm definitely better
at it than most people
uh but it's like
I don't know the
it's when you say like imagine going
back to Nazi Germany if I imagine going
back to Nazi Germany and I can't do anything
except I can
publicly debate and emasculate
these men uh
from their positions as far as the what
that does to their
um
their supporters views and everything
else and it's I don't
say that I think that is without value
he here's my biggest objection
to to the idea
that um Chris he was putting forth which
which is essentially
hardline D radical um D
platforming position um
um but it's good conversation go go
watch it some people found it very frustrating
but you know there's some points in there
um to just to listen on both sides but
what you know I have a friend
uh you know have you seen that meme
of why are you gay um it's like
an African bloke and yeah I um
I interviewed him for deep drinks we have to do it in secret
because and it's recorded it's on the
patron or if you're a channel member you can
watch it but essentially
there was a new bill that was put into
Uganda that made it so if you're a serial
offender of homosexuality it was a death
sentence uh and it was
10 years in prison if you caught
um identifying as trans
now that is a direct
you can draw a direct line from it's like
one clear line between
the Christian evangelicalism
um evangelicals going over there
promoting this stuff to the laws
Uganda used to have a gay abye
king they used to have
tribes of people with
third genders Christianity comes along
with colonialism and you can draw a direct
line from that to the human
rights same with women in
Islam most the Quran
has some explicit instructions
that break the ribs of women in
China and give them black eyes in the Middle East
Quran 434 I
have Muslims on the show I have Christians on the
show if I'm not to platform
a Nazi like
Nazis doing they've got no power in the real
world Christians
and the ideology behind
Christianity and the ideology behind Islam
are causing incredible
harm to like a vast majority
of people all of Uganda
all women you know so it's like at what stage
do we it's like you know is it just because
they're so popular if christianity was like a fringe
group would it now no longer be appropriate to
platform them or is it because it's so popular that
I mean that's my question of where
clearly the line is somewhere
I'm not going to you know I've
talked about a certain debate channel every
time it comes up I talk about what dog
shit I think it is because they they just
chase dumpster fires that's
their philosophy get the dumpster fire get the
views and never get a better camera
for the moderator I don't know what the fuck
is going on over there but the place is a garbage
and I can actually
I know you're talking about yeah I'm sure you
do and if somebody said it out loud I would say
yes that one but I've you know unprovoked I'm not
going to shit time
but I think I could take 95%
of their shows that I think fall under that category
and change the shows
to at least be
fruitful and not just a dumpster fire
chase
but then there are those people like Richard
Spencer's not somebody anybody who's
literally a Nazi I'm definitely not going to
platform the line is somewhere
I think as a person who is
now going to have to engage with that line more
I'm going to make mistakes
yeah of course
the line on the line I'm probably going to make
mistakes and every now and then it's going to be like
oh that person I didn't yeah that was
that was but we're going to engage
the line and hopefully we're never that close
the line that we have to worry about it but with time
we get close to the line we're going to
mistakes get made and people are imperfect
and that's the you know the fucking expectation
of nonstop perfection
and then if you ever vary from it
your expectation that totally prostrate
yourself and apologize for
for the mercy of a bunch of fucking
internet sociopaths
I also am not a fan of but
yeah it's it's just
like I don't know I
the line somewhere but it isn't
it yeah it's definitely
not everywhere your heart
that I don't know who Chrissy is but there
so when you said they are a hard line
D platformer I take it that they're saying you
wouldn't even debate a Christian
or a more no no they
didn't take that stance with Christianity
they're a
so
then if they don't have a hard line D
platform everything in opposition and just
don't know why is their more line more
valid than anybody else's line so
they're the they're long when I say hard
line though we did a scale from zero to ten
there were an eight with some leeway
the the eight is
what they mean is the deep the deep platforming
if someone's a Nazi they should be deep
platform of everything no Facebook
no Twitter no Instagram no YouTube
nowhere on lunch that should be they should
be accepted and they should you should continually
harass and de-platform
the websites
and communities that have them online
also into no job
no like yeah I would imagine
so they can't they send a person like that
to jail would they maybe
you could ask them I definitely
believe in people's right to believe
in racist
ideology I just don't like or
or be to believe like
freedom of expression freedom of
of speech freedom of identity
is something I do believe
in and that person
I would happily in a
one-on-one try to disillusion
them of such misgivings
and I definitely wouldn't be
you know as far as a job goes
if somebody is publicly
a Nazi
and they're doing something public
facing
yeah that that makes sense to me but as far
as if somebody is
publicly a Nazi and they have
a I don't know
a job as a janitor
for a park
I'm not going
out of my way to make sure he stops picking up trash
of anything hey
yeah if anything he should be picking up trash
yeah you know
so
so this is
why I love you first of all
thank you ten jobs for becoming a member
that's the first time I've seen it happen
well we're live so thank you
super appreciate members
and people who want to support on Patreon
what I love about you Jimmy which is what I was saying is
that you love to discuss where the line
is and you do so on the line
shout out to your channel once again
for those who missed the start you have some amazing content
and what's an episode
what's your next episode like what's the next show
that's coming out
if I don't do it because I want it tomorrow
unlikely since or this weekend
there's probably no cause I want is because I'm so
right now
working on pre-production
of new shows that are launching that I don't have time
I'm also building a set
for the sometime show at the moment even though
it's still September but
it's the thing I love doing
so if there's not on Sunday we'll have
the Sunday show with myself and Matt
on Monday or in raw we'll be back
for Skeptok and I
think we've got to I've got to still
figure out his guest usually we have
all the stuff way scheduled out but there's been
some shifting around Tuesday
is the I guess if there's one I want to plug
the most would be the premiere of
Dying Out Loud with Dave Warnock next Tuesday
okay awesome
so next Tuesday
go to the line Dave Warnock
Dying Out Loud it's going to be
like I didn't actually know that he
had a turtle that sounds
horrific
yeah
oh okay yeah all right
well
it kind of reminds me of
it's so honorable that he would do that
because it reminds me a little bit of Matt
Book Mortality by Christopher Hitchens
where he kind of catalogued his
yeah I'll be there for that
so and also guys
we do have Armraa coming on tomorrow
which will be a really fun episode
we're drinking some
someone says I'm a janitor and something
well yeah just you know if you also
don't try to get rid of your can
sorry I didn't mean to grab on
journalists I just
somebody's got to do it I'm just saying
like you know I'm not bothered
by Nazis as janitors
yeah
so Armraa is
oh man imagine like imagine knowing
that there was a Nazi janitor somewhere
and just being like all right here's what we're going to do
just drop your rubbish
I'm scheduling a bar mitzvah
and I'm making them I'm telling everybody
miss the trash cans
miss them on the floor
on the ground
we're making this Nazi cleanup after these Jews
it's going to be amazing
don't use the toilet in a traditional manner
do a reverse kangaroo every time
so just and
and that episode that if anyone wants to go watch it
it's called with Dan McClellan
what are the roots of monotheism it's a really good episode
and we also have a couple of awesome episodes
coming up including war zone journalism
in Ukraine
Dylan is actually over there
demining at the moment which is pretty cool
and then we also
anyone who was about to do a show with John Dylan
and then he led a bunch of Mormons bullying
bully him out of doing it
that is Dan McClellan
yeah
maybe I don't actually know that
still a Mormon correct
I think so yeah well yeah yeah he's part of the
LDS church he won't talk
he won't talk specifically about his beliefs
he won't want to affect his scholarship
like for people to view him differently
he just talks about consensus scholarship
I think we almost had him on the line once
because of all of his other work
and then I was like nope
if you will not declare whether or not
you are a current
if you're an active member of the church
that means you're giving 10% of your income
to the church
and if you're broadcasting in any way
that it's okay to be a member of that church
fuck no because tithing goes directly to harm
and it pushes their political stuff
so yeah I think Dan was one of those
ones that I was disappointed wouldn't
take a stand
because I liked another work
yeah Dan is actually
we talked about his
because he was himself an LGBT ally
and you could confront him about that
and everything but
what about the Mormons that pay tithing and therefore they lose that badge
unless if he is a current
member and is in good standing with the church
it means he pays his 10% which to me means
it doesn't matter
it doesn't matter if you love gay people
you give money to hurt them
period
well I'll let you to
be fun twitter
oh and also
I do want to mention
we having a new friend of mine
she has a podcast called growingupfundy
and she was in the start video
Sydney Davis Junior Junior
she apparently has been like
in your DMs trying to get your attention
but I just want to mention that
she is super cool she is a comedian
she is a special
friend of mine
on that basis I like her
she is
she is so funny she's got a special
on Amazon Prime
she is a comedian
she is actually hilarious
despite what Christopher Hitchens says about women
comedians anyway
let's do this giveaway guys
so hit the
button
I'll give you another 10 seconds
type in that into the chat
and then we will do a
giveaway we've got 23 people
you've got 23 chance to get a $25
Amazon gift card
will you send me a link on twitter
oh wait maybe I found her
Sydney Davis Junior Junior
excellent
yeah
well I don't have a single DM from her
maybe it's Instagram DMs
but she is super cool
the small amount
the small amount that I know about her
but I'll make sure she DMs you
by the way
the other person who said I didn't know them
I swear I just did a show with them
the like
after show at Neil's party
I think they were at that
what the
Sydney
or Derek
in the intro that said I didn't know who they were
and
and I said no
we met
I think that's Sydney
she was just racing on Neil
second person a man who said it
just pull it up
I'll show you which one
all right
let's watch the intro again
the only problem is
it's going to
tell us
how
this was supposed to be saved
for what I met you in person
but Jimmy
go fuck yourself
with all the love in the world from Benus
go fuck yourself Jimmy
go fuck yourself Jimmy
go fuck yourself Jimmy
you go fuck yourself
hey Jimmy I know we don't know each other yet
but here's my introduction
go fuck yourself
I'm Derek
go fuck yourself
Derek from MythVision I swear
I met Derek at Neil's party
oh maybe
he was talking while I was going
I couldn't that's why I said
that's gonna be all right
hey Jimmy's been on this thing
for longer than I am
I don't know what he says
yeah yeah no it's all good
I'll tell you a little secret
but this is not
if you like it it's fine
I can't stand StreamYard
you seem to have the wrong opinion about everything
what's that
you seem to have the wrong opinion about everything
StreamYard has the pictures that are missing
that I couldn't adjust myself to
but more than that
they are getting them to work with anyone
who's using a black magic
StreamYard is terrible
oh right
interesting
okay all right
I'm gonna need to talk to you
I actually showed up like 30 minutes early
because I knew it would take me 20 minutes
to fix the camera issues
oh wow okay well
I'm gonna need to talk to you about all this tech stuff
after the stream but let's do the giveaway
thanks everyone for coming out
this is my thanks to you 25 dollar Amazon gift card
you can buy a book let's draw this out
this is a cool feature that I didn't know about
that's dope
funny if it was me
hey Jesse B
congratulations
shoot me a message on
Twitter
and I'll organize getting you a 25 dollar gift card
with
real money
US money thanks Jimmy
so congratulations
thank you so much for subscribing
and being a part of this community
I really appreciate it
and oh
when I could buy Dave's book
is it Dave Warner?
unless they think I have a book
but either way you can buy whatever book you want
or anything you want I guess
thank you so much ah you're here
glad I'm glad you're here awesome awesome
message me on Twitter or email
the emails and the thing
Jimmy it's been an absolute pleasure having you
come on
I just wanted to say thank you again
um
let's see if I got one last question one last quick question
for you
yes I got one last question for you
we can do whatever
let's have another one
yeah I'm gonna have Neil on by the way
I don't know why Neil hasn't been on this channel yet
I've been on his channel
oh yeah
he did um
yeah that's true
if money was no object what would you do all day
if money
was no object
no nothing different
I love
this but it would
unlock a lot more and a lot more
would happen a lot faster like we'd open the
instead of trying to
find a place to lease later this year
we'd buy land
and build our own community center
production thing I
it'd be
the if money was literally no object
I would probably
utilize
like a 50 million dollar a year
production budget
and things would just take the fuck
like money is
because we live in a capitalist
hellscape very empowering
and so yeah there's literally
money no object
the line would just become fucking incredible
and be crazy
it'd be very similar but I would buy
back some of my time and I would
hire people
who and pay them a very good wage
who I think are capable
at matching at least like
15% of my neurosis
and several of them
to make sure that there's overlap and cover
and I'd probably try and reduce it
to the point where because I really do mean it
when I say I work 70 to 90
hours a week most of my day is wake up
start working
on something today was mostly the
website
and then I had the podcast appearance
and then I have your appearance here
and then after we're done here I've got the website
and some scripting to do for these promotional
things that we've got to do
and then more stuff on the set
I'd buy back some of that time so I could
would work more and I'd build a fucking
amazing wood shop that would be
not in my house which currently
my wood shop is in my house
and I'd probably
I'd probably
I'd probably end up having sex again
being crushed
you get to use your and we didn't even get to talk
about your wooden butt plugs
let's save it
for another time because I don't know
if you're selling them or what's going on but I
obviously need to get one maybe for the Christmas tree
it's not the star at the top
maybe it's a giant wooden butt plug
yeah yeah
but if anybody's watching who's like I can give
Jimmy like two million dollars a year to
I accept
yeah yeah and
I think you could super chat two million dollars
I don't know if you could super chat two million dollars
have you ever had what's the biggest
what's the biggest super chat you've ever
received from the line
I think there's a cap and the cap might
be five hundred dollars but I know we've
had a couple five hundred dollar ones over the
years whoa that's crazy
we had a five hundred dollar one because
somebody said something
really shitty in their phone call and they
felt terrible that Arden was mad
at Adam and so he sent
five hundred dollar one as an apology
oh wow well that's that's kind of
sweet yeah I know I was like
literally after I was like could you start
mommy shaming more callers like
what fucking
do it
forgive me mommy
it's amazing
oh guys what the sorry
we were just going to end there there's so
many more members there's someone just gifted
I didn't even know you could do that
what someone gifted
gifting memberships oh wow
well welcome to all the new members
Pragmatic Crystal
Ember
Calacia I killed Earl
thank you
10 jobs you're the one who gifted thank you
hey
it's a party okay thank you everyone
I really appreciate it that's that's awesome
I'm going to have to start creating some more
you know what Jimmy's going to send some
private messages to everyone he actually
said he spent hours on the phone with
so I don't even do stuff for our channel
members channel my channel just gets you
past slow mode
you want to
personal time you at least
you got to be on patreon and then you can
zoom or if it's anyone
who wants to have sex with Jimmy
please reach out to him on twitter
so that's
that's a difficult
area to navigate because people are
parasocial fucking weirdos
actually yeah that's
a lot of conversation to have there as well
don't start anyway
don't introduce yourself with your genitals
let me begin there
no matter what gender you are
vaginas and dicks aren't all that good looking
and nowhere
that's not a way to say hello
yeah 100%
well thank you so much Jimmy for coming on
let's wrap up the episode
I'm going to stop that beautiful music
I want to go play oblivion now
and see you all guys see everyone tomorrow
Aaron's episode and Tuesday
over on The Lion
for Dave Warnock's show
see everyone there love you all
peace
you
