The show today is no exception to some of the great work that I've done in the past.
Previously on The Diablo Critics.
How did you get this number?
You guys are so fun to hang out with.
Oh, let me tell you something there, brother.
My motivation was just to have an opportunity to hang out with all you guys.
In all seriousness, this is why I think what we're doing here is so important.
Kip, this will be not unlike our excellent videos that we've done in the past.
You know who also saw Satan's Guide to the Bible?
Was Mike Wiener.
He generally seems surprised every time.
So it's really, I mean, he's like, he's just noticing.
Oh.
He's, he's, he's these, these, these Christians, but they're not real Christians because they're
not fundamentalists like I am.
Right.
John Barton, a history of the Bible.
This is phenomenal.
John Barton is not only one of the most influential Bible scholars at Oxford, also an Anglican priest.
I love it that somebody would call a seriology like a soft assault.
I know, right?
That's crazy.
He literally wrote that play a play.
I would have a heart attack.
The NLC up-scriptor.
Oh, it's like a gut punch.
It's like, no, if you've got a case to make, make your case.
And that door is shut for, for ETS Biblical scholars, if you've got the data, share the
data, make your argument.
If it's better, we will shift to that.
Yeah, shift the paradigm.
It's cause we don't have to come up with another way to, you know, like figure out
how Nab and I just can be never-can-es-or-sun.
We're gonna figure that out, right?
We're gonna figure it out, right?
Hey, there's this new information and a new paradigm for how we look at these things.
Let's let that affect our research.
And then even though it might like cost us a job, we're gonna do the research right.
Feminist scholars are considered peripheral and secondary and not central Biblical scholarship.
All of it would have to shift the center of Biblical scholarship, which is predominantly
white male, right?
And of course, that is shifting.
Is the authorship of the book of Daniel an open question among scholars?
No.
There's a reason why I tried really hard not to drop the F-bomb when I go live.
It's not like it's 50% and 50%, though.
It's like 98%.
And you, Mike, they just need that little tiny sliver of not impossible because they're
speaking to people who are already agree with them and just want to be made to feel like,
hold up Josh McDowell's evidence and demands a verdict and said, what are the critical
scholarly arguments against the day of death?
I seriously think that's all they did.
If people come in with a particular framework, then what you really need to do is to spend
time helping people understand this new one.
Ignores the history of scholarship as well.
Right, right.
Whether you're talking about the penitent, Deutero, Isaiah, Daniel, whatever, this all
was an outgrowth of faithful scholars saying, I don't feel comfortable with this.
This doesn't make any sense.
What's going on here?
And over literally centuries coming around to these conclusions.
They were trying to prove the validity of the mistake.
I call this a whole point.
God.
It's like they don't know anything.
I mean, if you know scholarship like Albright, this was a massive challenge to how he was
right and how he would keep contributing to scholarship because he wasn't finding what
he thought he'd be there.
Matt's got red wine.
Where's the communion mat?
We all just had terrible fathers.
It's like eight o'clock at night here.
Sorry guys.
Well, who killed the music?
That was fun.
You guys, you guys missed it.
Jen was rocking out backstage there.
There's a secret metalhead in there somewhere, Jen.
I'm convinced of that.
Well, welcome everyone.
It's Sunday, March the 17th.
It's 11.05 here on the West Coast.
And welcome to the second episode of the Diablo Critics.
My name is Kip Davis.
I am a Hebrew Bible scholar and a specialist in early Judaism and the Dead Sea Scrolls.
And I am joined by four of my very good friends.
And we're here to talk about bad biblical scholarship.
So maybe if we could just go around and everyone introduce yourselves and let us know what
you do.
I would say go clockwise or counterclockwise.
But I suspect that we're in different positions on everybody's computer screen.
So maybe start with Dan and Josh and Matt and Jen.
Well, hey everybody.
My name is Dan McClellan.
I am a public facing scholar of the Bible and religion.
You can find me all over social media.
I go by at McClellan, M-A-K-L-E-L-A-N, which is a phonetic spelling of my last name that
I used when I lived in South America.
And I specialize in cognitive science and religion, cognitive linguistics and a bunch
of critical methodologies within biblical scholarship proper.
And I enjoy giving people a hard time about things just, you know, because it makes me
feel big.
That's the impression I get from the comments section.
But yeah, I'm not an enemy.
I hate the Bible.
I hate God.
I hate Christians and, you know, all the rest.
We're fully with a large platform.
Everyone who hates the Bible spends their entire life studying it.
That's how it works.
That's how it works.
Yes.
Doctor, this isn't my field of expertise.
Welcome.
Hi.
Thank you.
I am Joshua Bowen.
It wasn't a mistake.
What Kip said, I am the fifth friend.
I'm the fifth person.
There's four other people that he really likes and then there's me.
Yeah.
I'm a, I'm a seriologist, but I also, you know, have some background in revival.
So I tend to talk about those things an awful lot.
And I feel like I work a little bit with, thank you, Dan.
It's a really good book.
I appreciate that.
I was going to say it was a lot of fun to write, but I mean, Mike, with a topic like
that, I don't think you can say something like that.
So there's never been a book that was fun to write.
Right.
Right.
I ended up doing a lot of anti-apologetic stuff online.
So yeah, good to be here.
Thanks, Matt.
Oh, sorry.
I'm just watching the end of the Man United Liverpool match.
Oh, that's how interesting my introduction was.
Get ahead in the game, Matt.
Literally, United won and they scored in the 120th minute and now has won.
So the match is over.
I apologize for my distraction.
We must have won because I was here with you guys.
Anyway, I am Dr. Matt Munger and I am an associate professor of Near Eastern
Languages and Literature at MF Norwegian School of Theology, Religion and
Society in Oslo, Norway.
I work with reception history.
I do reception of older Near Eastern traditions and texts and stuff in the
Bible and then reception of biblical themes and stuff in later literature.
So I like to point out how things get recycled, reused and show up in new
contexts and then talk about what it means when they do.
And my YouTube is, Bible was written backwards, but I guess I'm more of a
private-facing scholar where it ends like a big-facing.
But I do stuff from time to time.
Evidently, you should have included a spoiler alert on your comments about the
game, by the way.
Somebody in the comments was DVDing it?
The viewership just dropped.
I'm so sorry.
I'm so sorry, Brian.
Oh, my gosh.
I will...
I apologize.
It's...
Oh, yeah.
We all hate it when that happens, don't we?
Yeah.
My bad.
My bad.
So I'll just tell you what happens this week on...
No, I'm just kidding.
Awesome.
Jen.
Yeah.
Hi.
I am a New Testament biblical scholar.
I do feminist work and talk about the materiality of texts, what they look like,
the kinds of things that take place in our lives that we tend to think about and
perpetuate and endorse because of biblical texts often unconsciously.
So that's a big piece of what I do.
I do that.
Oh, thank you so much.
My latest book, yes, Marriage in the Bible, what do the texts say for those who...
Thanks, you guys.
My copy just came this last week.
Yeah.
I'm really touched, honestly.
Yeah.
So that's my latest...
That's the thing I'm talking about lately.
People want to talk about marriage and want to turn to the Bible first as their starting
point.
I'm really honest about what it actually is and is not saying on that topic and move
from there.
Also, recently I've been...
Because of an interview on MythVision, actually, was invited to collaborate on an open letter
to Congress around this IVF thing and Alabama ruling.
So that's consumed my last two weeks, and it's been quite a thrill to work on.
But yeah, I have YouTube channel.
I have a website, actually.
That's the easiest way to get to all my stuff, JenniferGraceBird.com.
Excellent.
Thanks for having me here.
Yeah.
This is great.
So here we are.
This is the thing.
We are usually with our good friend, David McDonald, over at Deep Drinks Podcast.
But he unfortunately could not be here today.
And because there are already, after 12 minutes, over 300 people watching, I just can't follow
the chat and what's going on.
And that's what David ordinarily does for us, keeps things on track.
I have enlisted the help of a good friend of mine who volunteered to do this on his day
off.
DapperDinosaur is with us today, people, to keep everything, to keep the clock running
on time and to look after the chat.
So DapperDinosaur, thanks so much for being here.
Yeah, I'm DapperDinosaur.
Hello.
Sorry.
Yeah, maybe just tell us a little bit about who you are, where we can find you, and then
what's going to happen today?
I am a professional linguist.
I am a professional linguist.
I have been accused of such, including by at least, I think, two panel members today.
But I am not in fact a linguist.
I have a YouTube channel.
I do about three videos a week over there.
There's two live streams, one on Tuesday, one on Saturday.
And I have a scripted video that goes up every Thursday if you look for DapperDinosaur.
I should pop up.
If you see a green TRX who's teaching you how to code and make video games, you are on
the wrong DapperDino.
I'm the brown one who does things like counter Young Earth creationist claims,
because that is the focus of my channel.
So it's not the exclusive focus.
I've also got other weird science conspiracy theories.
I've got a few things about Bible stuff like I've had Dr. Kip on to talk about.
Okay.
Well, so since Behemoth is probably not a sauropod, what can we actually say about it?
Because spoiler alerts, it's not a sauropod.
But yeah, that's my channel.
Feel free to stop by if you like.
And I'm not going to be involved in too much of the discussion.
I'm going to be mostly popping back in when there's Q&A.
But that being said, this is, of course, as Kip said, a monthly show reviewing
bad biblical scholarship on YouTube with scholarship very much in scare quotes, right?
There will be a Q&A after about an hour and a half.
I will be keeping track of things like super chatted questions or questions that I think are particularly pertinent.
If you have a question for a particular person, please make sure that you say, like,
question four and then the name.
So that way when I'm reading them, we're not confused who the question is for.
And basically, that's pretty much it.
This is a, yeah, that's how this is going to roll.
Awesome.
Well, thanks for, thanks for helping us out, Dapper.
I just asked the dinosaur question.
We just asked the dinosaur question that's very pertinent here before, before he cuts out.
Did you exist at the same time as humans?
Well, it does now.
I can answer that one.
Are you on the arc?
Why did you miss the arc?
And the soul surviving psoriasaurus from the Jurassic period, I can say for certain that there was never a global flood.
And that apart from me, no non-avian dinosaurs ever existed with humans.
However, humans have always existed with dinosaurs because birds are just as much a dinosaur as I am or as a triceratops is.
I think one of the funniest, funniest single panel cartoons I've seen that was not drawn by Gary Larson has a dinosaur on two dinosaurs on a little piece of land that's sticking out from the water.
Noah's arc off in the distance and the one says, Oh crap, was that today?
Awesome.
So we're doing something a little new today.
If, if everyone noticed, we are actually simulcasting this on multiple channels at the same time.
And this is, this is an experiment.
This is new for us.
The idea is to try and consolidate everything into one place.
When it comes to the Q&A, I encourage everyone to, to super chat your questions for priority.
If you have specific questions for specific scholars, please include their name in your question.
We'll be addressing those at the end of the, at the end of the stream after we've, we've gone through this, this, this, this video from, from Mike Winger.
So now we do have some questions about it.
There does seem to be, it does seem that maybe there's, there's something different on, on different screens, depending on where you're watching it.
So, so hopefully this works.
All right, guys, let's, let's hope.
But I think, I think we're, we're ready to get into the video here.
You guys, well, we, we had a refresher at the beginning of what happened last time.
You guys, you guys are ready for this?
It's better this time, right?
I can make better arguments in this one.
I assume so, I assume so.
I'm just gonna, oh, no, not that.
Sorry.
I, I need to get better at this.
I am going to pull the video up.
All right.
Everyone, can everyone see it?
Is it there yet?
Did I, I think I have to pull it up, don't I?
Yeah, no, it's there.
Okay.
Good.
All right.
I'm going to hit play.
I've got this divided into sections.
Jump in if you absolutely have to say something, but it's probably, it'll be quicker if we just, just wait till the section breaks to, to say things, but you know how this goes.
Let's see how this, this plays out.
Yeah.
So, I really thought we start with that.
in large part because this is one of these things, right? When it comes to apologists and
critiquing biblical scholarship in particular, there's one guy out there that they all want to
go after, and that's Dr. Bart Ehrman. In fact, my good friend Apologia has coined a fallacy
for just this moment. This is the argumentum ad bartum.
Certainly, that's not how you decline Bart in Latin.
That's a Canadian, Dan.
This is something that I certainly hear a lot, and I thought maybe it'd be worthwhile just
getting this out of the way right from the get-go. A complaint I hear a lot is, well, Bart will say
these super controversial crazy things when he writes books for Harper Collins, but then when
it comes to his actual academic scholarly work, he's way more reserved, and it's nothing at all
like what he's willing to say out in the open.
To still man the position, if we're being charitable,
I think it's good for all of us to recognize as we do, and I know this is a bit of a truism,
but we all have biases. When you combine that with speaking to what Bart is,
speaking to him that is like a lay audience of interested non-specialists,
he's going to make things simpler often for the sake of his audience, and when you do that,
you end up saying things. For example, I do this all the time, and people ask me,
did the Exodus happen? Well, that can be a very complicated question,
but I kind of get a feel for what the audience that is asking that question means,
so I'll say no, but I know what they mean by that is as presented in the Hebrew Bible,
if we were to go back with a camcorder, would we see three million people marching out of Egypt
during the late Bronze Age? No, but that could be a strong definitive position, so I get that.
So I think to be fair, we should say, yeah, we all should guard against that sort of thing.
Of course, the first thing I thought when Mike said that was, please provide an example,
senior winger. What exactly are you referring to? Can you give me an example of one of these
things where he says this over the top, being a really emphatic thing that's just totally wrong?
If you could put that on the screen for us, that would be great, and I suspect
we'll be waiting a while. Yeah. And I think the audience is such a big part of this,
because this is actually something that my agent and my publisher are both like, hey, hey, hey, Dan,
you are still writing to convince colleagues. Exactly. You're supposed to be sharing your
opinion with the public, and it's something that I struggle with. And as somebody who makes
content for the general public on social media, there's absolutely different ways to package
these things. And some of it has to do with the terminology and how accessible the language is.
Some of it has to do with understanding the perspective of your audience and knowing what
questions they have, what knowledge they do and do not have, and how to frame things. Some of it
has to do with making it strike certain notes and tones that you want to strike so that what's
you're presenting is not only accessible, but also of interest to the audience. We were talking
before the show started about how a lot of people don't like dealing with all the linguistic minutia
of some of the languages that we have to deal with. And I can't make a video about
critics and not just get a thousand comments that you can predict from people who really don't care
one way or another. So it's just different audiences. And I don't think there's anything
that Bart has said that I have heard, either in a debate or in some kind of presentation or in a
book, that if we said, hey, unpack that, he would not be able to go, okay, yeah, here are the data.
And yes, it's a little more complex than the way I stated it. But if I stated it any other way,
then I've got to spend another 10 minutes explaining what's going on. And it's just a lot
easier to say, no, the Exodus didn't happen. I think just Bart's woefully ignorant though.
Woefully ignorant. And the one other thing I wanted to say, oh, how fun is that, is that
when scholars are talking about ideas, we tend to have an assumption that the other scholars
understand the implications of what's being said that, that because we're familiar with it, that
a general audience needs to have brought to the fore for them. And it almost sounds like you're,
you know, so it means that you are maybe kind of repeating or making something sound, you know,
kind of kind of coming at it multiple times in order to drive that home, I guess. And that might
make it sound or seem like what Mike is saying, right, he's making it way more extreme or intense
or whatever that it actually is. Well, that's actually about making sure people understand
the importance and the main takeaway, I would say. But yeah, as well. And it's what these two said.
No, it's, it's, it's, it's something that keeps coming up over and over again. And I feel like
it's probably something that we just need to, we just, we just need to, we need to keep
Bart in our prayers.
Yeah. I think the opposite side of this is also very interesting because what, what they really
have, I've seen this a lot actually recently where people say, Oh, well, Bart Amman said it,
so then it must be wrong. And actually this kind of that kind of propaganda to use Mike Winger's
term has, has become very common among apologists because there's this idea that because he in
some places has been, has said things previously that now are no longer the consensus position or
things that aren't, aren't precise when he's in an interview or things like that, they'll say,
well, he's wrong about everything. And then we can make fun of him because he said something
that wasn't perfect once. And, and it's really interesting the way that has like kind of propagated
into this. Well, if Bart Amman says it, then it must be wrong. And, and it's just so,
yeah, it's just, it's just so interesting to see that because so many, so many people have
learned a lot from Bart and, and both the scholarly side and the popular side are, are
really full of knowledge that most people would benefit from learning. So, and I, and I think
it's an unfair criticism as well. I don't know any scholar who would love for their work to be as
publicly accessible as Bart Amman's is like everything you've said for decades. I, I don't
like people sharing videos of mine that I made last year. Like, ooh, that was a different time.
Um, so I, um, I think it is an unfair attempt to just kind of rack up rhetorical points.
Because there's not really any substance to this criticism. Like this has no relevance
to the rest of Mike's point. This is just, let's score a point. Let's bring Arman down a peg.
And it's, it's kind of the beginnings of a dish gallop. We're just going to throw all the spaghetti
against the wall and see what, uh, what sticks. That's it, right? It's interesting too. This also
works, this kind of actually works in the, in the opposite direction where when you do have,
like, like, uh, people who do Christian apologetic work, who also do work in scholarship,
you can see the same thing happening in reverse, right? Guys who present papers both at SBL
and at ETS, the Society of Biblical Literature and at the Evangelical Theological Society,
those papers are going to look a lot different from one another. Um, precisely on the same,
on the same spectrum that, uh, that we're talking about here.
And that's why I think, and we can move on, but like that's why I think it's, it's a fair critique,
right? Um, but the thing is you have to accompany it with an example.
And that's, for me, that's the key. So like, when I talk about somebody like James Hofmeyer,
I think James Hofmeyer does some brilliant work, right? Excavated what a teleborg and like,
he's a great Egyptologist. I'm with Kenneth Kitchen, did a lot of great, you know,
great work in the field, but it's just, it's just when their theological commitments sort of,
you know, cross paths with the thing that they're, that they're trying to argue for, that you,
you end up with specific things like, you know, the, the $600 theme. Does it mean $600,000? Does
it mean 600 military units? Well, for like two millennia, this hasn't been an issue. It's been
$600,000, right? But now that we know that New Kingdom Egypt didn't have 3 million, had only
3 million people estimated. You can't have the entire population of New Kingdom Egypt walking
out of Egypt from the exodus. So then, well, it must not mean that, right? Well, that sort of
betrays, I think that theological commitment, because well, we can't just say the text was wrong,
right? You can't say that. Um, so you have to come up with some other reason. Maybe LF means
something else here. So that those are the sorts of examples, I think you should point out. And
that's why I want one from, from Mike. Be nice. Be nice. Well, let's, uh, let's move on here, shall we?
Make sure we've got that up. Yeah, I do. Okay.
The evangelical scholars, the ones who would be defending against the claims of Satan's guide
to the Bible here, they are, their, their case is never presented. Sometimes claims from them are
presented where they just say something, but their evidence or case or their reasons for those
claims are not presented. So it looks as though they're making sort of faith proclamations instead of
actually providing their scholarship on an issue. But when you go to the skeptic, when the, when the
skeptics are quoted, the airmans and the avalos and these other guys, they, they get claims and
evidence. They're going to unpack their reasons and their evidence. And more often than not, in fact,
almost in almost every case, they don't give any scholarly response against those claims. There's
no pushback whatsoever. Even when those claims are in the minority of scholarship, even though the
pretend they're in the majority, compare this to say like my women in ministry series in that video
series, I quote extensively from egalitarians, the people I think are wrong. Extensively, I
refer to their artis for their cases. I hold strong cases and respond to your argument. I often
share the pushback they'd have to that as well. That is when you're trying to give somebody both
sides of the coin. Like I want to introduce you guys to the, to the world of scholarship on
the egalitarian, complementary and women in ministry debate.
Uh, I thought I got it again. I want that specific example, right? Mike, what are we talking about?
Um, what, what is the minority fringe position that the video presented that, uh,
you know, scholars, scholars, if you were to, you know, go to mainstream scholarship that
they would say, oh my gosh, that's, that's fringe, you know, where is that? Right. I don't see it.
See it. Satan's Guide to the Bible too. Like this was, uh, this was a very,
I, we, would you call it a, a, a populist, uh, kind of documentary. Like, like it's,
it's got this, we talked a little bit about this last time. It's got an intended audience.
In view here. So of course you're not going to jump into the weeds of, of all the arguments on,
on, on every nuance, right? Like it's a, it's a nitpick.
It is. And I think, I think we talked about this a little bit the first, last time, because,
you know, when the, the audience that you have in mind kind of already is familiar with the
conservative framework, then what you really do need to present is this alternative idea or form,
you know, concept that is, again, as Josh was saying, much more actually, uh, mainstream than
what any, what a conservative or fundamentals like Mike is going to be even looking at,
right? I mean, if you look at an ETS conference, of course, the idea is that, you know, typical
modern, uh, typical biblical scholarship are endorsing and are going to seem fringe or minority
or whatever. But that's, you know, it's all about your starting point, I guess, or what you consider
normative, which is, again, back to his other comments about, right, objectivity versus, you
know, what's faith. Sorry, I'm getting off to other things. Sorry. Stay with this. Stay with
this clip. Stay with the clip. Did any of you guys, did any of you guys watch, uh, uh, Mike
Winger's 12 hour, um, video about women, women in ministry? Uh, can I ask a question? I'm so sorry
because I see this in the side chat. I'm trying not to look at it, but there's a comment that says,
didn't Winger refer to Megan Lewis as a Jezebel? Is that true? I have no idea. I saw that too,
and I was like, I hope Josh doesn't see that. Yeah. Um, because I have, I have no, I have no
knowledge of that. I've been called Jezebel just this last week. I'm like, yes, I will, I will embrace
more. Well, I, you know, I, I would just say, if that is true, pull up Mike, uh, stop running,
right? If you get to talk shit about my wife, uh, you wouldn't step in the ring with her.
That's what I'd say. You wouldn't step in the ring with her, Mike. She dropped you.
I stand right by that. Awesome. That's awesome. Well, on that note,
yeah, I don't remember what we were talking about. So I think we could go to the next
We could just, we could just go to the next one here. Can't we? All right.
Let me share with you guys about the moral problems of the Bible that this video talks about.
They have a clip where they talk about Jephthah and they suggest that the Bible is totally cool
with sacrificing human beings, uh, for God's favor. Yeah. Those of you who read the Bible,
you don't need to be a scholar to know this is, this is weird. Bologna. My God is not cool with
killing innocent children for divine favors in battle. That may be, but the God of the Bible is
victory in battle is related. I'm so sorry, but that was such a beautiful distinction.
And I loved it when I heard it because she said, the kid said, my God would not be okay with that.
And say, that may be true, but the God of the Bible is, and this is something that I think
people just do not catch. Absolutely. Right. Interpretive models drive interpretations.
So that, that little girl, absolutely. It could be the case that the way that she filters the
biblical texts creates a God that she understands and good for her. Right. I wish that everybody
did that. Right. Or at least admitted that they did it. And, and, but, but that's something. No,
my interpretation is the right one. And there is no such thing. Like, what does that even mean?
So yeah, that was, that was actually pretty brilliant, I think. And I would add that even
the God of the Bible itself is a negotiation. Exactly. Absolutely. You say that the God of,
the God of whoever wrote judges 11, that's right, like 100% was like, Hey, Jeff was like,
I need help against the Ammonites. Tell you what, I'll sacrifice the first thing that comes out of
my door. And God's like, Well, I know what's going to happen, but sounds great and helps him win.
Exactly. And then it's his daughter. And he's like, God, damn it. All right, well, we're gonna,
let's do this thing. And then he continues to have military success. Like people are like,
God didn't accept it. According to the narrative, there doesn't seem to be any consequence of this.
And he continues to enjoy military success. So it would seem that either. And he assumed it was,
he assumed that it was effective, right? Yeah. And well, he was gonna, there would be consequences
if he did not follow through. Exactly. There's no consequences for sacrificing his daughter.
And so whoever wrote judges 11 may be using it as a, an example of how bad things got,
but they represent out on I 100% accepting that sacrifice. Yeah, they do. Yeah.
But at the end of this clip, we, he gets to this point that we need to talk about.
All right, let's do it. In the 11th chapter of the book of judges, Jephthah,
the leader of the Israelites who are at war with the Ammonites from Canaan wanting to secure
victory for the Israelites. Jephthah makes a promise to God. If you give the Ammonites into my hands,
whatever comes out of the door of my house to meet me when I return and try it from the Ammonites
will be the Lord's and I will sacrifice it as a burnt offering. The leader of the Israelites
promises God he will set fire to whoever greets him first when he returns home from battle.
He will devote to the Lord first thing he sees. But of course it turns out to be his,
his daughter, his only child. And I'm back and I won. Who's behind door number one?
Welcome home, daddy. Is that really what happened?
Now, somebody expect me here to offer, there's two theories on Jephthah. It's not,
it's not 100% clear in the text. I think everybody should read on this. It's not 100%
clear in the text, whether the daughter actually died or whether she just was celibate for the
rest of her life. She goes off in the mountains to mourn her not having children. And then it says
it's filled his mouth. Can we stop this for a second? So yeah, let's do it. It, it is 100%
clear in the text. It is. He says, Mike knows Hebrew. He says, not English either because
it's clear in English. Exactly. You just read it in English. He says, I'm going to offer as a burnt
offering as an Ola, whatever comes out the door. And then he's like, yeah. And it says he carried
through as he promised. And that's what it says. She said, my father, if you have opened your mouth
to the Lord, do to me according to what has gone out of your mouth, now that the Lord has given
you vengeance against your enemies. And it would be, right? Like, yeah. And if, and if he was like,
we'll tell you what, I don't want to do what I said. So why don't we just do this other thing
that is not what I said, and maybe that'll be good enough. Like, that's not how this works.
That's not how oaths work. It's like, I don't want to do the thing. So I'm going to just do this
other thing that that you didn't agree with. Well, and this is the important story we came about.
Exactly. Like, this is people fixate on, you know, the, this is about child sacrifice. I mean,
the child sacrifice is a vehicle driving the story. But this story is about something else,
right? This is about Jeff does vow, right? And how important it is to keep your vows,
even those ones that are, you don't want to. Yeah. Also, Mike, I can't help but
point this out. Mike says that they, she and her, her friends are be mourning that she won't have
children. And that's not what the text says either. It mourns, they mourn that she will not give a man
sex, that she will die a virgin. And a woman's virginity is about giving, right, this, this
vehicle for men. So I mean, I'm not surprised, but it doesn't, but it's a part of the text.
Did you talk about that in here at all? So I didn't, I haven't got that far.
I don't remember specifically from that angle. I think so. I think I did mention it though,
somewhere. Judges 1139. He did to her according to or his vow, which he vowed,
he vowed to offer as a burnt offering. Like, that's not, that's not an idiom for,
and I, this is something I have, this is something I have to push back against Joel
Bayden a little bit because he doesn't think Exodus 22, 29 is about child sacrifice. And he's like,
well, it's talking about giving it to the Lord, which just means you're crossing the threshold
of the temple. And it doesn't really matter what happens after it doesn't refer to what happens
after the entity has crossed the threshold of the temple. So it can refer to going into a priestly
service. And that, that is over interpreting something that, that's pretty clear. And so
the same thing is true here. You can't read this any other way, remotely plausibly, as he
burnt his daughter to death as a burnt offering to the God who gave him victory over the Ammonites.
Yeah. Let's finish this clip because he's got a, he's got a bunch of, a bunch of texts that he
wants to bring up. I think it's, it's useful if we just, just spend a few minutes talking about those
too. I think that he did actually go through with it. But that's not really the question, is it?
The question is, is this a moral flaw in the Bible? As in, is the Bible,
the way that these amazing, totally objective, totally objective scholars who totally represent
things your pastors all know? Sorry, it's just ridiculous. They presented as though God is
cool, quote, cool with killing innocent children for divine favors in battle. Is that true? The
God of the Bible is cool with that. No, I want you to think this through. Here's some evidence. Okay.
There shall not be found among you anyone who burns his son or daughter as an offering anyone
who practices divination or tells fortunes or interprets omens and then goes on and on and on.
That's Deuteronomy 8 10. Let's look at Ezekiel 13 3. Every first
born you shall redeem with a lamb or if you will not redeem it, you shall break its neck.
This is talking about offerings because the firstborn belongs to God. Every firstborn of man
among your sons, you shall redeem, meaning you cannot actually offer them. So God claims
rights to the firstborn just like with Abraham and Isaac, but he will not allow them to actually
sacrifice their kids just like Abraham and Isaac. It's interesting what people suggest that Abraham
and Isaac's story is proof that God likes human sacrifice when God refuses to let it go through
and says, no, no, here's a replacement instead. And then he tells all the Israelites,
instead of having your son or your firstborn, you're going to offer an animal. I don't want
human sacrifices. Then explicitly says in scripture, no, you're not allowed to do that.
I hate that sort of thing in Jeremiah 7 31. Did you get any of this from the Sagan's
guide to the Bible? No. Okay. Okay. We're going to bring it down. There are two things I want to
say here. The first one is that this is presupposing univocality to say we can govern how we interpret
text A by looking over at text M. And we see that that says, no, you're not going to do this.
And so that means that if it says you are going to do this over here, that it's wrong,
that we have to reinterpret that. Obviously, Dan, obviously, you know,
Israelites were not allowed to keep other Israelites as dead slaves for six years. I mean,
I mean, yeah, sure, it says it here in Exodus 21 of Deuteronomy 15, but look at Leviticus 25,
it says you can't. So that must mean that they weren't allowed to keep them as dead slaves. I
mean, come on. And so it's begging the question by saying, do these things conflict? No, because
these things can't conflict. It is presupposing the conclusion. And particularly with Exodus 13,
like that's overwhelmingly agreed to be a later text from Exodus 22. And here's the thing. And
the stories about, oh, there's a replacement provided. Why do we have rules about sacrificing
children and stories about sacrificing children where later layers say, oh, there was a replacement?
Why don't we just not have rules about sacrificing children? If you say God wants us to sacrifice
the children, but then at the last second, you're actually supposed to do something different,
how is that not evidence that there was an earlier thing where you did do it, and then somebody
came through later and just shellacked the, no, you don't, on top of it. Just don't have a rule
about sacrificing children, and that way you sidestep having to go through all these mental
gymnastics of, oh, but there's a replacement. You're supposed to actually redeem them. Oh,
this actually refers to giving them over to priestly service. So it means all these other things.
And if you acknowledge that there are literary layers and that there is diachronic change here,
that's by far and away the most likely explanation of what's going on here. But they're not looking
for the most likely explanation. They're trying to gin up the tiniest little sliver of, it's not
impossible that my reading works. Hey, you can't say, obviously, the serpent in Genesis three is
Satan. Well, how do you know? Well, let's look at the book of Revelation. It doesn't work that way.
If you open with, and if Mike, maybe if Mike says this, hey, I'm reading this through my
interpretive lens. That's right. Fine. Hey, it certainly helps, right? What is it? Live your
best life, right? But you can't then critique critical scholars who are coming to these passages
and saying, what did they mean? The passage itself, right? Not how later people interpret it.
Exactly. Yep. And this, and this is something that they don't even see. And like when I, because
I'll say, I'll make a video saying, oh, Genesis 19 is not warning you about the dangers of
homosexuality. And people would be like, Leviticus 18 and 20. I didn't say anything about the Bible
as a whole. I didn't say anything about your whole worldview. That's right. I didn't say anything
about anything other than the rhetorical purpose of Genesis 19. And it just, it can't, it doesn't
get into their heads that these are compartmentalized different texts by different authors. It is a
zero sum game. It is something that it is all unified and holistic. And this just baffling.
You know, he's drawing something out here that's, it's hard. It's hard enough for readers
of the Bible. It's hard for scholars even, right? Like the, one of the reasons why
this issue of child sacrifice is the issue it is, is because of the way the texts have been
constructed over time. Like he's going to read this one here in a minute from Jeremiah chapter
seven, right? Where God's like, no, no child sacrifice. I hate that stuff. I didn't want that.
Me, me want child sacrifice. Why are you looking at me? I didn't want child sacrifice. Don't look
at me. I never asked for that. Like, think, why is the text so determined to, to, to speak
against this? Why is Sargon's name, the king is legitimate?
Why would he call himself that? I mean, it must be that he's legitimate. Right? Come on, guys.
That's it. That's it, right?
So we finished the clip. Yeah. Let's finish the clip and then we can say a few more things about
this. He was interested in propaganda, not reality. And they have built the high places
which is in the Valley of the Son of Hinnom to burn their sons and their daughters in the fire.
How does God feel about that? Which I did not command, nor did it come into my mind. It's,
it's not something God desires or has told them to do. That's the point. Ezekiel chapter 16.
Are there other responses to this? Yeah. Oh, yeah. They'll build all these cases on why these
verses didn't apply or they weren't made written yet or they'll have like reconstructed history in a
way that says not. All these actual arguments. This was a scene. All these actual arguments.
Right. Well, is he not looking at Ezekiel 20 where, where God is like, oh, I gave them
commandments which were not good by which I devastated them and showed him who's boss,
causing them to pass their children through the fire. Like that, like Jeremiah is like, oh,
no, I didn't do that. And Ezekiel is like, hell, yeah, I did that. I was showing him who was boss.
And you again have disagreement here, but their response is going to be, wait a minute,
wait a minute. They all have to agree. And since I like Jeremiah, I'm going to reinterpret Ezekiel
20 and subordinate it to Jeremiah and make it agree with Jeremiah because that's the governing
verse because that's the one that agrees with my presupposition. It's like a script that they never
depart from in a single syllable. And what's painful for me in that particular last clip
about Ezekiel 16 is, is that the way Mike reads right past the reference to the whoring and, you
know, the, so you all know what I'm referring to, but, and I'm not sure if you played it, but just,
you know, the fact that Mike is very concerned about X, Y and Z and can read through this and not
be upset by it, not find that problematic because it's, I understand it's not his point, but that's,
I think a lot of what those of us here are interested in doing is look at what you're also
not paying attention to or, you know, like let's, this other part of the language here tells us a
lot about, yeah, where they're coming from, their framework, how it is something we want to acknowledge
and not continue to do. I don't know. That's not quite to the same point that we were talking about
in that, but I just, I needed to bring it in. It's a, it's a certainly is a worthwhile point
though because this, like that, that text is, yeah, it's, but the thing is, what's so disturbing
about it is when they do try to deal with it, right? Reading Daniel Blox comments on it about how,
well, you know, she who tramples underfoot, her Lord's grace should expect to receive his wrath.
Yeah. Yeah, so yeah.
Well, can I, I just, I saw a comment in the chat from supreme scientists who said,
and that's a good, that's a good name, but who said, but, but God, but they accept that God killed
his own son, or whatever, he killed his son, Jesus, and, and, and it's, but it's such a good
point because it's like, God does not accept child sacrifice, right? That's just one final
time. Listen, I made a whole, I made a whole video about this, like a month ago, because
another amazing thing that happens in this whole discussion is the ways in which Christian
apologists will often twist themselves into pretzels to avoid the obvious that Jesus is a
sacrifice. He's, he's a blood offering. Paul is very clear about this. You know, the book of Hebrews
is crystal clear about, about the implications of this, right? We're dealing with a system of blood
magic here. This is what it is. How comfortable are you with this? Really? Think about it.
Yeah, quite. Isaac was just, that was a dry run. We're just pre-gaming for foreshadowing.
Oh, come on. You know, it was foreshadowing. It was written with that specific purpose.
Yes. Yes. Yeah, it was. The ever-present. And that's why Mastema shows up in the Jubilee's version.
That's right. Yeah, sacrifice. And we'd have to walk through all that thoughtfully and carefully,
right? But I have to respond to the propaganda they put out and hear God rebuking them. You took
your sons and your daughters whom you had borne to me and these you sacrificed them to be devoured.
Is God okay with that? No, this is why he's judging them. He's not complimenting them. Hey,
good job. He hates this, right? This is a horrible thing. He says where you're whoring so small a
matter that you slaughtered my children and delivered them up as an offering by fire to them.
This is something God is hateful of and something that he judges other nations for doing.
So I think right away, I just want to point out, it's super ironic right at the outset how much
Mike considers the work of scholar's propaganda relative to what he's doing, right? It's hilarious.
But in that passage and in a lot of these passages with regards to not just child sacrifice,
but any sort of service at all, the issue even there for Yahweh is you're sacrificing them to
them. Like you're pulling in these other gods who I never knew and I don't want you to have
participating in the cults. This is the problem, right? Yeah, it's the wrong God. Yeah, it's the
wrong God. So yeah, I don't know. Do we have anything more to say about that?
There's just one more thing that pretty much every clip you've played grates my nerves.
And it's that everything equates whatever verse he's citing with God is God says God
thinks God wants. And it's just like there's no critical distance to say the author of this text
is proposing, right? And it's just like, and that's literally like the first step is to be able to say
the author of this text is doing something, right? That text or something, I mean, but every single
step he's saying God believes God says God is. And and it's just like, I mean, I guess that's the
difference in the methodologies between an academic methodology and a theological
apologies, apologies, methodology. But but when we work with text, we consider that there that texts
do not equate to reality. And then you have to look at these things. And like, even conservative
scholars that are that I know that are that are academics will do that, like can can do that,
at least that part and say, like, let's look at what this is what this is actually communicating.
And and there, then we can have interesting discussions because they might say, well,
obviously, this person has is trying to make a rhetorical point out of using this or whatever.
And then we can have a discussion about what they actually believed about God, or we can talk
about these kind of things from a good, you know, robust academic perspective. But you just can't
when the one option is God actually says it. And the other option is not. And so we're just like
it's really, it's really interesting in a lot of commentaries by conservative scholars and
particularly in in commentary series that have that like endorse in erency or something like that
or or require it for all the authors in their series. It's it's interesting to see them try to
strike that balance between legitimate scholarship that is trying to understand
the rhetorical goals of these authors within their situations and their circumstances
with the the requirement that they acknowledge that this is the inerrant word of God. And they
and they have a lot of different ways to try to make it sound scholarly that they're basically
punting to tradition every time. And they have a little bit of space within which they can work
to say, well, the authors seems to be doing this, that and the other. But ultimately,
you cannot violate that expectation that this be held up as the very word of God,
even if they've got to say like the author had no idea what their words were going to be intended
to mean. But they were, you know, they were just being controlled by by some sense of inspiration
and were totally oblivious to what we know God was really trying to say. It's, it's pretty silly.
It's pretty silly. It's pretty silly.
All right. So I think that the next clip, Mike talks a little bit about the, the,
I guess, the, the, what's the word on the fickleness, maybe that's the word
of scholarship that pesky scholarship just keeps changing.
Is this then the Bible being totally cool with killing innocent children for divine
favors in battle? No. And if scholars think it is scholars are wrong. It's okay to say that.
Am I, am I the propagandist now? Because scholars are like the, the holier than Val group of people.
And if they agree on something, no one's allowed to disagree because otherwise.
I mean, he should just wear a sign around his neck that says, I wish I had a formal education,
right? That's, that's what he should do. Just I wish I had a PhD, right?
But the guy who made a 12 hour video to tell women what they're not allowed to do in the church
says that scholars are the holier than Val people.
And, and notice, noticing he keeps, he keeps reducing this down to the Bible says what the
Bible thinks, what the Bible says. Because that is God, right? Not a single one of the
authors of any one of these texts ever lived to see anything that approximates what we call the
Bible, right? The Bible doesn't exist within centuries of the life of anyone who wrote any of
this. So they have no concept of that. And, and that's just, why, why is that they, they can't
even engage that. They can't even acknowledge that problem. Well, see, that, that's the real,
sorry, that's the real issue here, right? Is that he's, he's making what I guess amounts to a
category error, right? And now I feel like I'm getting into philosophy. So sorry, Kip's all.
Time to move on, guys.
But I mean, you know, because what the argument here is that he's, he's saying these scholars
are wrong about what the Bible says. But the problem is that scholars in, in this particular
context are doing an internal critique. But that's what they're doing. So they're coming to this
interpretive framework and saying, is there consistency here of like, Dan, I cannot imagine
that any time somebody yells out from your comment section, Leviticus 18, Leviticus 20,
that you're like taking a pen out and furiously writing those down, God, never told me this before.
Leviticus, what was it now? 18? My God, I've got to go read this. Like, what is it? So, like,
this idea that, that he's, he's going to read these passages out and it's going to be somehow
damning to the position of the critical scholar just reveals that he's not treating it fairly.
Because what, what Satan's guide to the Bible, what the video is doing is doing this internal
critique and saying, look, based on this interpretive model, how do you account for these things? And
you can't turn around to answer it and say, well, look at the whole thing. It's the whole
point of what he is doing. That's right. What the Bible is and is not is just basic stuff that you
learn in most seminaries that he has not learned. And he has, he's just got this great platform for
perpetuating this really awful cluelessness about what he's doing. But it's driven by his
faith convictions, right? His very important to him. And, you know, yeah. Dr. Jen thinks you
should go to seminary, Mike. It's a good place to start. Well, I think you should get a particular
version of seminary. I don't know that we want to harm him with first year Greek.
I actually think he knows some Greek. I actually think he does. Yeah. He's well, he
enough to be dangerous, though. I mean, it's not there. Yeah, it's not. Hey, but I mean,
I'm pretty sure that Satan knew Hebrew. He talked to Eve, you know, so in Hebrew,
the world's first language. I mean, like the Syriacs actually thought it was Syriac. I mean,
I have there's a lot of great Syriac texts that argue that the that the language of creation
was Syriac. I had a friend in seminary, and I'll shut up, but wrote his thesis on how like looking
at Genesis five to get at Proto Semitic. So, you know, just let him. Well, didn't you know that
if you if you line up all the names, it tells the story. Yeah, that's right in Genesis five,
isn't it? Do we have do we have time to answer one of these Super Chat questions?
We were going to save them to the end. So I figured that's that's that's the easiest way to do it.
All right, then let's keep rolling. Let's roll guys. Okay, you know, in the 1700s, there was all
kinds of skeptical, ungodly scholarship against the Bible that has just disappeared because of
the discovery of ancient manuscripts and archaeology that has proven so many things wrong that
scholarly ungodly not too long ago. And that does happen occasionally. And so we need to be aware
of this and look at the actual reasons for a claim, not just who's making the claim.
So, you know, I just I even need to warms the cockles of my heart to hear him talk about all
those manuscripts that that have have proven the Bible absolutely perfectly correct.
And what silly is I've seen a lot of these claims. Oh, scholars used to think this,
scholars used to think that and then we discovered this and that and I've tried to find the scholars
who have right and frequently they never said any such thing whatsoever. People are just making
these things up. Well, it's similar to the way we we keep hearing about how nobody adheres to the
documentary hypothesis anymore, right? I mean, I keep hearing this all the time. Well, that was
when when I was at Trinity Western, we had a we had a master's student who had just come from an
MDiv and we were in the Old Testament seminar class. And they were talking about source criticism.
And this student who's a good friend of mine and raised his hand kind of sheepishly and was like,
I just came from my MDiv and we were taught that that scholarship had rejected the documentary
hypothesis and that everybody agreed that it was mosaic authorship. And and the the professor there
was a lot a lot more understanding and gentle that than I would have been at the time. But
yeah, basically, it's like, oh, there's internal critique going on with the documentary hypothesis.
We have the rejection of E and J as full documentary sources that these are are probably
just fragments that are pretty much limited to Genesis and Exodus. And and that gets repackaged
as the entire foundation of source criticism has crumbled. Right. And so we must default back to
mosaic authorship. And they're like, no, no, this is advancing critical source criticism. Now it's D
and P and non P. And so we've actually kind of made it a little harder on ourselves. And it's
moving. It's going in the other direction to like, that's the amazing thing now is we've got we've
got increasing scholarly discussion about how much of this stuff just started in the Persian
period in the Hellenistic period, right? Like, it's not it's not getting closer to Moses, guys.
It's just not. And I think this is the other. You know, Matt, you said something that grates on you.
Listening to people talk about how early critical scholarship was there to disprove the Bible,
right? Or was ungodly, as as Mike just said, you know, or how all these archaeologists,
you know, throughout the 20th century, were just there to try to disprove. They didn't they
were just atheistic. Pick up a book, right? Like read anything about the history of scholarship
on Pentateuchal formation or on early, you know, like Palestinian archaeology, because,
you know, guess what? A lot of these guys were like, we got to figure out how Moses did write
this, right? Which are the mosaic parts, right? So it's it's only as time has gone by where it's
just become less and less tenable to hold to such a position of like even, you know, something even
close to the single mosaic authorship. So yeah, I mean, he just this just to me tips his hand if
he actually doesn't know this topic at all. No idea. And even I see apologists who will quote
Berman on the Pentateuch. Joshua Berman. Yeah, and be like, see, it's all it's all a sham. As like,
Berman's like, here are a couple of verses where a handful of scholars are going beyond the mark.
And that doesn't mean that the whole project is illegitimate. It just means there are a handful
of scholars who are going beyond the mark. And sometimes it's the majority of scholars. But
that's what the internal critique is. That is the back and forth that advances the whole project
that makes our our positions stronger and stronger. And it's none of this is corroding the foundation,
the observation that these texts are are consolidating numerous different fragments by
numerous different authors and editors. Yeah, we have we have another like side to it, too,
that within scholarship, there are people doing other things that are saying, I don't care about
the documentary hypothesis. But I want to know what the the final form is saying to the community
which had that final form. Yeah, they're looking at I mean, like, when you look at other ways of
reading texts, that are legitimate areas of research, scholars will say things like that,
like, there's no point in trying to figure it out, because we never will. So I'm going to read it in
its form. And then I'm happy to do that. And that's like, that is also something that is legitimate.
And we don't like in scholarship, we don't fight about whether or not you're allowed to say, I'm
just going to read the final form and use it for my research in postcolonial studies or in what,
you know, whatever. It's like, you're just like, whatever, okay, cool. Like, and we read that and
we learned something from that. But it's not learning anything about the documentary hypothesis,
because those people have said they're not interested in. And then so it's, it's just really
funny too, because those things get used, like, get picked up occasionally by, by people who aren't
in the field, and that want to say, Oh, well, look, these people have accepted the final form,
and that's the only thing they're reading. And you're like,
And no, the Bible has not reached its final form yet, it will continue to try. Josh, I wanted,
I wanted to hear what you were starting to say. Yeah. Oh, just when you, when you said, you know,
people, people have been saying, you know, you hear people say wasn't the documentary hype,
I thought the way that you were going to go is, yeah, you know, like the seminary student,
I heard that it's been sort of like debunked and everybody's going toward tradition historical.
Right. I didn't think part of that was so. Yeah, I didn't either.
That's why that's, that would be, that would be, that would be a quality MDiv.
Higher quality. Right. So he did, he did bring up maybe if, if someone can, can, can just
sort of flesh out what he is talking about there, because he does bring up like the 18th,
19th century rationalists, right. So someone maybe, maybe just give a, give a quick summary
about what happened in the 18th, 19th century critical scholarship and who the rationalists
were and what they were doing. Well, I think this is the, the perennial issue of no examples
being provided. That's fair. There are a few different things that could be in view here. It,
it could be the, the archaeologists who are, are skeptics. None of these places actually existed.
That, you know, isn't always true. They made these claims. But if somebody has any idea of a
specific that he's talking about, I'd like to hear about it because I don't know what he's talking about.
So I, I wondered if he had like Rhymeris in mind there who was trying to find all these
naturalistic explanations for like Jesus's miracles. Like they weren't actually, it wasn't
actually walking on the water. He was, he was on like a, like a sandbar in the middle. That's kind
of, that's kind of what I wondered if he was getting at that. Like all, we've, we have all these
silly explanations that nobody actually. Well, I think even apologists will appeal to those from
time to time. They'll be like, oh, there was a lot of, there was a lot of wind that blew back
the density and that's what allowed the, so yeah, I don't know. I just think, I just think it would
blow people's minds if they were to go to like, like, like read, you know, what things like,
what Albright said, you know, when he's, when he's doing his, you know, making explanations about
the archaeology or just reading back through these, you know, these reports and why it is
then what people went and dug at a rod and hashbone and debone and Jericho, like what,
what is it that they were concluding? What were they looking for? It's, archaeologists were not
during like the 19th to 20th centuries, were not these like godless, you know, awful atheists,
like, you know, some of us are that, you know, we're just out to disprove the fact that they're
out there digging with the Bible in one hand and the spade in the other. It's what they're doing,
right? So it's just, it just became untenable as city after city, for example, did not reflect
Joshua's conquest narrative that they went, maybe we gotta think about this differently.
Awkward. All right, I think we're actually finally getting to the New Testament here, which is pretty
great. Let's talk about where they say that Jesus is wrong, where they say that Jesus
is actually wrong. Jesus himself was actually wrong. Here you go.
Um, because I'm super excited in like, like two weeks, I'm going to be on a stream, uh,
over on myth vision with, with Dr. Dale Ellison. So I'm, I'm pretty excited about that. I know
this is old hat for you, Jen, you and, you and Dale Ellison probably like hang out all the time
and everything, but it's fun for me. Was I supposed to comment on that?
I don't, we've never actually met.
What's that?
We, we've never actually met. He and I and, um,
No, really?
No, really. Yeah.
Oh, wow.
And, um, it's funny because the only, and I haven't spent, I haven't read much of his scholarship
just because it hasn't been in the, my purview, but, um, what I was focusing on and,
and I just have one anecdote of, um, people's New New Testament scholars kind of arguing
about the Arsena Cortes, this, you know, how do we translate this, this, this term that ends up
being translated as, um, uh, homosexuals and, and that he and my, my buddy disagree. And so I
haven't looked into all of that and it's okay. And I'm like, yeah, this is, this is the thing.
We all, we all have different thoughts about these texts, what they meant at the time.
We have very little to compare it all with. And that's all I have on Dale Ellison.
So I'm like, I'm just open. I'm just open because, you know, I know he's doing important stuff and,
yeah, but it also makes me a little nervous that he's at Princeton and I'm like, wait,
is he still there? Yeah.
Anyway, I'm like, yeah, probably going to not agree with him on everything. So there you have it.
There you go.
Yeah.
There you go.
All right.
There you go.
Uncon with power.
Oh, and what happened next?
As would become something of a pattern for Christian people going forward,
nothing happened.
Nothing happened.
That's how it ends.
So this idea though, that Jesus, guess what? This is not new. This is again,
standard argument. They're right about that.
But standard argument doesn't mean
uncontroversial, totally agreed on by everybody.
And Christians who are even scholars have no pushback against it.
Let's look at the verse that they quoted, Mark nine one.
Truly, I say to you, there are some standing here, some cannot all some who will not taste death
until they see the kingdom of God after it has come with power.
Interestingly, the idea is they're still going to die.
Whereas in the final kingdom, nobody's dying.
So what is this talking about?
I don't know.
What happened next?
They said, they said nothing happened.
The scholar that they had says nothing happened.
Well, verse two, next thing that happened,
after six days, Jesus took with him Peter and James and John and led them.
So some of those standing there and led them up on a high mountain by themselves.
And he was transfigured before them and his clothes became radiant,
intensely white as no one on earth could have could bleach them.
So it was something supernatural about his appearance.
And there appeared to them Elijah with Moses and they were talking with Jesus.
What is this?
Is this like maybe I don't know the kingdom of God coming
with power with Elijah and Moses talking to Jesus in a glorified state?
Is it, Mike?
Is it?
That's what you were expecting, right?
There it is, kingdom, guys.
Everything's good now.
It's come with power.
Right.
Sorry.
I was just going to say, I don't have a whole lot of,
I don't have a whole lot to say back to all his New Testament things,
because I'm like, right, because you're starting with these premises
and these ways of reading that I just don't agree with.
And so you, and it's interesting too, because I found myself kind of getting
pulled back into that way of thinking a little bit.
I'm like, oh, yeah, this, I remember how powerful this can be, the Paul,
all the Paul and all the, I'm like, yeah.
So first, let's posit that a Jewish man named Jesus in the first century made
that comment about the coming of the kingdom of heaven or coming the king of God.
What did he mean by that?
Right.
And I think I understand that differently than Mike Winger does.
And so that is where I'm going to start.
And we're going to have a very different way of handling the fact that maybe
the synoptics pair these two stories together, right?
That writing of that gospel comes a couple of decades after,
of having this tradition that Paul has started.
You know, like I go back to Christian origins.
I go back to what is, what are these texts doing?
You know, they're coming out of these reaction to Paul's ideas.
The gospels are written after all these ideas come along.
And so they're reinterpreting these concepts,
such as the kingdom of heaven and king of God.
If a Jewish man named Jesus made that reference,
I don't think he had a spiritual thing in mind.
I think he had a very real, tangible kingdom overthrowing Rome,
having something to do with taking care of the people at that point in time.
And that would look like getting Rome off their backs, I think.
And it would look like getting the corrupt in their minds, right?
And I would probably, I mean, as far as I know, right?
Corrupt leadership who are in collusion with Rome out of,
out of leadership and replacing them with more righteous Jewish leadership.
Like, you know, and I think it's a kingdom, not spirit,
and the spiritual reinterpretation of the whole message.
Thank you, Paul, right?
So that's my response to that.
I said, happy for you, Mike.
And you can, you can look at the, like this is the first verse of chapter nine,
but you can look at the last verse of chapter eight, the verse right before.
And it talks about the son of man being ashamed of these people
when he comes in the glory of his father with the holy angels.
Like, it's clearly the same reference.
And you can go to the Olivet discourse in chapter 13,
where he again says,
this generation shall not pass away until all this come to pass.
And what are they talking about there?
That's like explicitly the second coming.
The stars fall from the sky.
The sun goes black.
The moon turns to blood.
God comes in the clouds of power and great glory with the son of man,
and everything is coming to an end.
It's very clearly referring to the second coming in Mark nine one.
This is, this is pretty pedestrian apologetics here,
trying to say, no, it's, it's the transfiguration.
That's what it really means.
And he pulls up second Peter.
Like, I think maybe we can just, we can just skip to the last one after this,
but like he pulls up that passage from second Peter, right?
Which is obviously, like, if you know anything about,
about the, the, the dating of the literature
and what's going on in the church leading up to this,
this is obviously exactly playing into what Jen was talking about, right?
It's, it's a re-spiritualization or a spiritualization of the message.
So of course, they're gonna, they're gonna start pushing different ideas
about what Jesus meant when he said that, uh,
you will see the kingdom of God coming in power because it didn't come in power.
They were like, starting to think Jesus is not coming right away.
We need to rethink, we should rethink some of these things.
This is standard for apocalyptic literature, right?
I mean, yes.
This is why second estros can look back and say, oh man,
the fourth kingdom was supposed to be Greece when, when Daniel went.
But you know what?
God didn't really reveal it completely today.
He thought it was Greece, but let me take, it's actually Rome.
Guys, this is, this is the nature of apocalyptic literature.
This is how it works, right?
So, uh, I don't think we should be surprised at this.
And honestly, I think it's, I think a better interpretive model would be to do something
like Stephen Cook, um, up at Virginia Theological Seminary
when he talks about apocalypticism as in, as a, uh, an Anglican, right?
Like he, he explained, he embraces the, the nature of the genre.
And just as this is, this is how God works through apocalypticism.
But there are other ways to do this besides fundamentalism, guys.
There are other ways.
Well, and I just think it's great that, that Mike here actually admits
that, that his theology is that the kingdom of God came not with Jesus's resurrection or,
or crucifixion, but with the transfiguration.
And I think that's just like, I don't know, I don't know off the top of my head
which heresy this is, but, but it's definitely a heresy because he is just completely removed
the, the resurrection from, from the equation there.
So I, I like it.
It's good.
All right.
Let's, uh, let's look at this, uh, this last bit here where he, uh, he talks about, uh, the empty tomb.
Oh boy.
Brace yourself.
Now let's talk about the empty.
Brace yourself.
This is, this is super interesting because this is where the video goes off the rails in a sense.
Satan's Guide to the Bible reports to be what all scholars know, pastors all know it.
And then they do this empty tomb nonsense.
The majority of scholars would disagree with the implication of this video that,
that the empty tomb is not historical.
Now Bart Ehrman thinks it's not historical.
A view he, he took on at some point in his career later on, not, not, not earlier on,
after he was doing debates.
And it seems to me that the empty tomb was a powerful debate point that his enemies would
bring again, his enemies in the debate, right?
His opponents in the debate would bring saying, Hey, evidence for the resurrection,
the empty tomb is an important one.
And then he later said, I don't believe that anymore.
Well, most scholars do believe it nowadays.
So, um, that's right.
Most scholars do.
You wouldn't know it from this video though.
Here you go.
As Jesus to him is empty, his body vanished.
The earliest discussion we have of the resurrection is provided by Paul in 1st Corinthians 15.
His argument is striking since he makes no mention of an empty tomb.
Paul never mentions not once the empty tomb.
Should I, should I expect Paul to mention it to think that he believed in it?
Next up, if Paul believed in the empty tomb or didn't believe in the empty tomb,
is that weighing into the historicity of the empty tomb?
Go back like 40 years.
The majority of scholars were totally against the empty tomb.
It was laughable if you try to make a case for the empty tomb.
Scholarship has moved in a very different direction nowadays where the majority of scholars,
even non-believers and skeptics and atheists and things like that,
do believe the empty tomb is a reality.
Jesus did rise and then the tomb was later found empty by women.
What was the did the tomb stuff?
She's over it.
That, that, that's it.
Right guys.
All, all those scholars now believe that Jesus, Jesus rose from the dead.
Well, in, in the 1980s scholars all said the empty tomb was not historical.
Right.
Again, could I see some examples?
Yeah.
I, and here I think there is, there is a bit of a point to be made.
I, I'm, I'm almost done getting a large-scale survey of biblical scholars ready to go.
That will ask.
Yeah, wait.
I've got dozens and dozens of questions about all kinds of different research.
Questions.
And I want to hear, you know, I want to be able to say, well,
we know exactly what percentage of scholars think this.
And I think that this is obviously based on the minimal facts theory that.
I think so.
Yeah.
That we just had the, the book on the resurrection come out, but by Habermas, right?
Yeah.
And so.
The first of five.
What?
Serious.
I'm not kidding.
It seems to me that the most of the scholars that I've talked to agree that they, they found
an empty tomb.
Now that, that does not mean they agree that Jesus resurrected, but they, they agree on that.
I have suspended judgment.
I don't know that we can say one way or another.
I'm interested in what scholars think about this.
So it's going to be on that survey.
But I think this is where Mike had the best point to make.
But just, just trampled all over the point to insist, uh, to, to come up with these
claims about, you know, back in the eighties, nobody thought this was true.
Now everybody thinks it's true.
And that means Jesus resurrected.
Yeah.
So I think, I think Josh, you need to run.
Don't you?
So, sadly.
Sorry.
I mean, just texted and said that she's, she's feeling sick.
And, uh, oh dear.
And apparently it's not because Mike rang the doorbell and wants to throw down.
I was, I was going to say, I hope, I hope she recovers in time for her, uh, for her
cage match with Mike.
Yeah.
I mean, like, I, I think we can all rest assured that, uh, you know, Mike, Mike wouldn't
dare step into the ring with her.
He's got way too much to lose.
So I would hope not.
But, uh, guys, thank you on her because of her association with Bart.
Is that why he's doing that?
You know, it's hard to know why Mike would say some of the things that he says.
That's a good point.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No problem.
All right.
All right.
Take care everybody.
Thanks guys.
See you around.
See you.
See you.
Okay.
Well, should we finish this and then, uh, get to some super chats?
Yeah.
All right.
Good.
So.
Don't, uh, oops, that tab.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I'm going to go to the same, same school.
They found tombs that match the description of the tombs from the Bible and they're just
in the Jerusalem area.
They're not farther away.
You don't have these tombs in say Rome where some people will suggest some of the
gospelers were written.
The Sanhedrin and their role in burying and taking care of, uh, those who had died in Jerusalem
around Passover time, the desire to get them buried and taking care of the, the, the function
of the tomb, um, Joseph, Bermuthia, uh, his role in the Sanhedrin.
There's a bunch of like interconnecting pieces that speak of the historicity of it.
First Corinthians 15.
I delivered to you as a first importance, what I also received.
The Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures that he was buried, that
he was raised on the third day in accordance with the scriptures, that he appeared to,
to Cephas, Peter, end of the 12 and appeared to more than 500 brothers at once.
It's silly to think that this is evidence.
Paul didn't know about the tomb.
He was, he died.
He was buried.
He rose.
Does burial require a tomb?
Nope.
Could require just a hole in the ground, but is it consistent with the tomb?
Yes.
Do we also have very early accounts of the tomb?
Yes.
Do we have any conflicting accounts?
No, it's normal.
His history, you would just assume Paul's talking about the empty tomb here, but skeptical,
you know, propaganda, you're going to be like, no,
no, I'm going to make it so hard for you to prove any element of your Christian faith
that I will fight you tooth and nail every step of the way.
That I think is what's happening.
That's key, right?
Proving elements of your Christian faith is, is, is what he's saying there and not,
not talking about what the texts are saying or not saying.
And yeah.
Yeah, I think the, the point that JJ was, was making there was that if the, the empty
tomb became a, a standard, a rally cry for early Christians, we would expect it to be
found there.
It's not, it's not like this is just some kind of historical incident.
Like the empty tomb is how the gospel of Mark ends.
The empty tomb becomes, I mean, that's one of Habermas's points.
The empty tomb, but either it had not taken on that social significance by the 50s
CE when Paul was writing, or it was generated after that time period.
And so in reconstructing how these things develop and are transmitted and are represented
in the literature and in the traditions, that's not an inappropriate question to ask.
That is not a problematic observation that the empty tomb becomes significant.
It is not significant in 1 Corinthians 15.
When Paul tries to say, here are other significant things.
Right.
So that is, I would suggest that is evidence that maybe this is something that was,
that was developed, that was innovated later.
And also on that and somewhat tangential, but it's, I think it's relevant to the
conversation, which is that passage in 1 Corinthians, when you keep saying,
according to the scriptures, those, those steps that Paul established,
drawing from the scriptures are, are not steps that any other Jewish writers were making.
They weren't connections people were writing prior to Paul.
He creates these bizarre, really interesting connections.
And so his use of according to the scriptures, okay, it's really creative and it's not a logical
thing.
But if you don't know that, if you don't know that Paul isn't following the way Jews have been
reading and expecting things to happen for centuries, then it sounds pretty impressive.
Like, wow, this is, yeah, this has been, this is, yeah, this is in there.
It's in there.
It's in there, but it's, it's not, it's not clear.
In fact, my, one of my seminary professors, you know, had to sit down with me and be like,
yeah, no, that's what I worked on with my doctorate is how did Paul make these connections?
Like, where did he get them to begin with?
Now we can see it, but how did they get there?
First of all, you know, nice.
I hope I'm making sense, but no, thank you.
Yeah, I wanted to point out too, like the, you know, what we understand about literature in
general, and this is my reception history, kind of thinking coming into play is that,
like when you, when you don't have a trope, and then suddenly a trope appears,
and then that trope becomes elaborated on and becomes almost fan fictioned
into more and more contexts, like that is, that is, okay, it's, it's negative evidence,
but it's also is a very strong evidence for when that trope becomes popular.
And, and so we're, you know, I don't think in terms of what's like historically
real or accurate or not with these things, but we can see in the literature that it is the
Gospel of Mar that is, that seems to be the beginning of the trope.
And, and it is a very interesting phenomenon that gets picked up on, that becomes elaborated on
in the other Gospels, and then in the early Christian literature.
And then it becomes an issue that has to be discussed of whether or not it could be historically true.
Right. And so you get these apologetics and the anti apologetics, and we get all that stuff
going on in the second century, because there's the question of, hey, is this significant for the
faith or not. And so, like, from my perspective, it's this, this shows up at Mark and becomes
interesting only then. Yeah. And exactly. Thank you. I'm going to butcher the pronunciation.
Is it Palogia or Apologia? Apologia. Apologia. Okay. Thank you for the correction. I, I was
totally wrong about Habermas, and I apologize for that. I pulled up an article. Oh, it's an easy
mistake to make, though, because he used to include it. Well, he says in this kind of his minimal
facts, I think he had like a broader and a narrower set of facts. But something like that.
He says in this 2012 article in Southeastern Theological Review, I've never counted the
empty tomb as a minimal fact. He does talk about how it's something he talks about, but his polling
says that between two thirds and three quarters of scholars accept the historicity of the empty
tomb. And for him, that was not enough to consider it, one of the minimal facts. So I was wrong
about that. And thank you for apologizing. It happens. Sometimes, sometimes Dan is wrong, guys.
And now we're going to start calling him Palogia. And nothing he says is right or true.
Everything is wrong. Nothing makes, makes, makes apology.
People mispronounce it, Palogia. I wanted to help Mike out a little bit here. He mentions
the fine work of Jody Magnus on Burial Customs. In fact, I, so, and she's published widely on this.
Like, I actually, this is a good book here that she has written, where she talks about this among
a number of other elements of Jewish daily life in the Second Temple period. And the way this
works, the way the argument goes here is that Jody argues quite strongly for the plausibility
of this idea that after Jesus was crucified, because of the High Holy Day, his body was removed
and put into a tomb temporarily, right? This is the argument. So she's basically saying,
yeah, the Gospels, like, this isn't a crazy idea that Jesus was actually put into a wealthy man's
tomb. And she stops there, right? Like, importantly, this is what she's a scholar. She's an archaeologist.
This is, this is what the, this is what we do. You follow the evidence and you make a point.
Importantly, Jody also, unfortunately, has to clarify in her book, you know, guys,
I'm not saying I think Jesus rose from the dead here.
So, yeah, just, do we have anything more? Should we get to questions?
Questions, questions. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So listen, we have, like, and I'm just,
I'm just going to turn this over to Dapper Dinosaur here. But I wanted to point out that we've got
like 700 people watching this stream. I've never had this many people watching my channel at the
same time. I don't know about you guys, but this is, this is pretty incredible. It's really fun.
Why are you laughing, Matt? I just, I would have never had anyone watch a live stream.
Oh, I'm very impressed. This is great. Yeah.
What do you got for us, Dinosaur?
All right. So we have a whole bunch of things. I have started a few things that I thought were
interesting that weren't super chatted. But first up, we have Heathen Queen for $4.99 US saying,
no question, I'm deep in the book stacks here in Chicago. Just wanted to say, Winger is the worst.
Keep up the good work, friends. You keep up, keep up the good work, Heathen Queen.
Good luck in your next semester. Yeah. Get that bread.
All right. Jay, Pasek, I'm going to go with, if that's not how you say your name, I'm very sorry.
How many times has this panel criticized Mike Winger? I'm thinking this isn't the first time.
It's the second time. It's part two. Yeah. Of two. Of two. Yeah. Of two. This is it.
Yes. Yeah. At least for that part of that. I mean, I guess until Mike says something else,
stupid, right? Okay. If there was part two of infinities is what you're telling me.
We can't cover them all.
Make a point for $10 says, just saying, hey, with a wave emoji and showing some love,
Dr. Kill, Matt, Dan would love to have you on for an interview.
Just to clarify, I just interviewed with him, so he wasn't waving me out.
I had a really lovely conversation with him. Yeah. Oh, excellent. Yeah, let's do it.
Let's see. Discovering an ancient history with Pat Lohinger for $2 says, one day I will
quote, fix Josh's use of layers with an eye roll emoji. Archaeologist in the house.
There you go. Let's see. Constellation Pegasus for $19.99 says, anyone here read the Rashi
commentary on Leviathan and Genesis, originally a male female pair, which God had to kill a female,
if not the earth couldn't exist. Never heard read anybody bring this up before.
Wow. That sounds, I haven't. I've read very, very little Rashi. I don't know about you guys,
but that sounds amazing. I have glanced off of this at one point or another. This
interpretation is interesting, but I think most scholars don't find that it will have much
value for reconstruction as it existed prior to the medieval period. In rabbinics,
you probably can find some people talking about this a little more, but not in my field.
I was going to say, so people are clear here. When it comes to doing a lot of the history of
the textual scholarship, the rabbinic literature, whilst intensely interesting, is usually just
way too late to provide much useful insight into how the text developed and the ideas behind them.
There are some exceptions though, but for the most part, people working in early
Israeli religion and Second Temple Judaism, even in early Christianity, the rabbinics are
going to be, and particularly medieval authors, are going to be of limited value.
All right. Ronan of Stagg for five Canadian dollars says, hello, everyone,
and slancha for anyone who celebrates because it is, in fact, St. Patrick's Day, if you are.
And again, I'm going with slancha and not at the actual Irish pronunciation because I don't
know how to pharyngealize all of those sounds effectively, so I'm not going to try.
Not even use? Oh my, wow. I mean, look, I could try, but there's also a lot of palatization,
and I'm just like, I don't want to have my first attempt at this be live on air in front of 700
people. Sorry. Let's see. Discovering ancient history with Pat LaWinter for two dollars says,
winner reminds me of Ned Flanders meets Dane Cook with a question mark, even though I think that's
just a statement. Hey, I'm going to, I'll go with it. I think it works.
Somebody's going to have to do like a mash-up cartoon. Yes. Yes.
All right, MythVision podcast for five dollars. Hey, Wes says, serious question,
how much of actual scholarship do you think Mike Winger actually knows? Do we think he's
even aware of the scholarship? Yeah, that is a good question. He has a master's degree, doesn't he?
No. He's got, as near as I can tell, he's got a, he went to like a cornerstone church
college? Okay. Like it's not, as far as I can tell, based on what I've read on his page about his
qualifications, he did like an undergrad, some years after, something like that. Yeah, but I don't
even think at like, like a properly accredited school. Yeah. So it's entirely possible that he
just has no idea. And also, even in accredited programs, frequently on the seminary side of
things or even conservative universities, you're going to be trained in your position on these
things. And so they're only going to let, selectively let critical scholarship in,
along with how to combat it, for the most part. And so there are folks who will talk a good game
as if they've, they've been fully exposed to all the critical scholarship, but it will be wildly
outdated stuff. It will be apologetic stuff. And they will only know the critical scholarship
through the lens of being basically spoon fed bits and pieces of it.
I'm looking at his, I mean, I know you all know this, but that he graduated from the School of
Ministry at Calvary Chapel Costa Mesa, Costa Mesa, and was ordained in 2006. And I haven't,
you know, looked up Calvary Chapel. But just the name itself is not giving me any kind of,
you know, not a lot of confidence. That was, that's the language I was looking for. Yeah.
Yeah. He's almost, you could almost call him an auto didact. Yeah.
Yep. Or inspired by the Holy Spirit. That's even better, right?
PI says, I mean, you guys just hide the truth, the other side of scholarship,
you just want to sin, but temperature in hell is rising. Yeah, because there's so many good people
down there. It's rising on earth too. So, hey, we're all out. I'm really,
I'm really hoping that's not a typo and he meant to type school or shit.
Yeah. There's a famous saying from Brigham Young, from my own tradition, one of the
least offensive things he said, where he said this, if the Mormons end up in hell,
we'll turn the devils out and make a heaven of it. Which is a sentiment that I kind of like.
Sounds like that country song that, if you're going through hell, keep on going.
You might get out before the devil even knows you're there.
That's right. Thank you, Dan. I have no idea.
Full disclosure, I was born into a family of bluegrass musicians and was raised on bluegrass
and old country. So, I know some rebel bluegrass songs by heart still.
I will accept no mockery of the country. No, me neither. I'm dead serious. I don't even pretend
to hide it. When I was on Deep Drinks, David asked me what my favorite death metal song was or
something. I was like, I don't know. I listened to country and he almost died.
Country has been problematic for a while now, but when I was younger, I really enjoyed it.
Ravilla178 for five Canadian dollars says, could you elaborate on, quote,
mourning her virginity, unquote? She didn't lose it. What, I think that does not die.
The Hebrew say exactly.
Well, I'm looking at, I have the Hebrew up, but I'm looking at the English translations.
So, it's a couple different places. So, in verse 37, judges 11, verse 37, she said to her father,
let this thing be done for me. Grant me two months so that I may go and wander on the mountains and
bewail my virginity, my companions and I. And then verse 38, go, he said, and he sent her away
for two months. So, she departed. She and her companions and bewailed her virginity on the
mountains. So. Well, and I think it's good to point out the preposition there is al. So,
I think, bewail or weep regarding or about my virginity is the way to go. Yeah. And I didn't
look at the Hebrews directly yet. Did you have comments about that, Dan, that I haven't? Yeah.
The verbal root there is b'cha, which just means to cry, to weep. And then you have al betulai.
So, and that's the abstract concept of virginity with the first common singular possessive.
So, to me, that just means she's going to die without having served her purpose in this way to
a man, right? She's dying as a virgin. And to me, that is so much more intense than just she's not
going to have children. And she's not, you know, but it's her purpose in life is to serve a man
in this way. And she's not going to get to do it. Yeah. So, she's mourning because she's a virgin
and going to say that way. She's going to die this way in this state. Yes. And the thing that's
being mourned is not, oh, I won't have children. As Mike says, the thing that's being mourned is
she's not going to serve her purpose in this way, which is one of the main messages we get in
the Hebrew Bible is women are here for men's purposes to give them to have sex, to give them
children. So, it's so much like we could say that the author was a man who is mourning that this
virgin is going to get sacrificed. Yeah. All right. Claude Simian for $5 says, thank you for
using begging the question correctly, even though as a philosopher slash scholar, it's kind of cheating.
I'm not touching that one.
Discovering ancient history with Pat Lowinger for $2 says, it was a cosmic do-over, Dan.
Oh, I remember when I saw that when it came up and it was, I'm trying to remember what the
were we talking about? Yeah, I remember, but I don't remember. Oh, that that maybe that's the
I do remember human sacrifice. Yeah, that was exactly what it was, because in some later
passages, it's like, no, no, no, no. Back to PI, like these people are like, these people are
clearly don't want to even hear about the religious scholar academia, the other side, they just want
to sit and read secular scholarship. Why do you guys at least don't answer this? So could you guys
at least don't not answer this? Well, I am I am a religious person myself. I was going to be
I'd let everybody know I was probably going to be late because I had some
some service things to take care of at my church. But but then I was I was told I wasn't needed
today. So I showed up on time and I read religious scholarship and I am friends with religious
scholars. And so yeah, this is there's there's nothing wrong with with critical scholarship.
And you'd be surprised how many critical scholars are believers themselves.
I mean, right, most. Yeah, yeah, it's almost like it's how we get into this, right? Yeah, I'm so
confused by this comment. Yeah, it's just it's not it that it's obviously has no understanding of
the field that that we're in. Just like people people like to just assume like
just make up what they think the field is like. And they're going to make it up in a way that
serves their presuppositions and their interests and protects their self image. And that means
suggesting that critical scholars are all ungodly sinners. And religious scholars are all saints.
That's what they're going to make up. And then they're going to just assert it as as if it were
perfect without bothering to go get any experience with it. Come to SBL. I was just going to say
that like, dude, just drop into one of these sessions. Register for his neighborhood.
He's in Southern California. He could just drop in San Diego. Just swing by. You don't even need
to register if you don't go onto the the vendor floor and just go see how many people in religious
garb you see walking around and see how many people go talk to people and ask how many of
them are religious. And this is the ungodly guild of biblical scholars that ETS glares down their
snout at. So yeah. If it makes y'all feel better, I also watch people do the same thing to all others
all sorts of other fields of academia. Like I see them routinely do it to biology, geology,
physics, astronomy. So it's not just this that we're we have someone show up and be like, well,
these are just the godless heathen atheist biologists all over the place.
It feels like this is just become a general feeling among some towards scholarship.
Yeah, regardless of what it is, right? Revolo 178 for five Canadian dollars says,
could you saw that? I went up instead of down. That was that was the problem. Milwaukee atheist
for five dollars. Also FYI kid has an unreleased fanfic about the steamy relationship between
David and Jonathan. Hot stuff. Do you really get that? That's no, I actually do not. So this is
this is my friend Lawrence trying very hard to get me into trouble and miss Jonathan in the process.
I don't know. It's a good idea. Maybe I should do that. This version of Jonathan is just a
neuter noun in Greek. That's what's happening. Oh, thank you. Okay, thank you.
Well, that's not good. Thank you. Good job. Thank you. This is a good point.
Dark circles 22 for $10 pointing out the inherent sexism in Isaac being rescued from sacrifice
while Jeff the daughter isn't to my fundamentalist dad. He verbally agreed, then just shrugged
it off as unimportant. Wow. Well, it's a it's a paradigm destroying thing to recognize. And so
if you're not going to try to work your way around it, you're just going to ignore it.
Yeah, Carrie Brompton for five dollars. How does the line to non parents go it's different when
it's your own kid? That's about child sacrifice as well. Specifically, pre gaming for God's own
sacrifice of his own child. There you go. Nice. Nitty for 999 US says what Sean McDowell told me
he was an adult. He was an adult, not a child. So this was this was apparently something I
tackled in the video that I made about it. These these these other apologists
made a big deal about the fact that Jesus wasn't a child. He was a full grown man.
The mix is okay. Or different. I don't know. So human sacrifice is okay if it's only left to
with adults. But this is this is a point that in some interpretations, Isaac is also seen as an
adult. Yeah, right. And so that's that's one of those important things here is I think that's what's
coming into play is that there's more parallels. It's not just baby Isaac being laid there helplessly,
but that Isaac is this, you know, pre figuration of Jesus because he's submissive. And he's he's
making the sacrifice as well. Like, so I think that's the that's where they they do it. And
that's the play in in Hebrews as well, isn't it? Yes, I think yeah. So I think it's worth
well pointing out. I think it's worth well pointing out here to speaking about the rabbis when they
approached this story about Isaac, there were a few of them who actually said, Yeah, this happened.
Isaac died. And he was resurrected. Yep. And that the Islamic tradition takes that up as Ishmael
was, but yes, he was actually killed and was resurrected. Yeah. Thank you, Nitty, for the
comment. Yeah. Yeah. All right, from Kath for 499 US says sorry, Mike, but a minister degree
from Calvary Chapel does not make you a biblical scholar. It is a YouTube channel.
Please say just like a history degree doesn't make me a linguist. Take that.
Dorothy say God didn't kill his own son. Can you guys grow the f up human beings killed the son of
God? Who was delivered up? Do any of you even read young, which is I not voluntarily
show of hands for young readers, everybody? No, I mean, I've done it. Okay. Yeah, not
recreationally. Not recreationally. No, but educationally. It's it was a hoop I jumped through.
It was a long time. But yeah. All right, Edward. He's a new I'm going to go with sorry about that
for 25 of a currency with which I am not familiar says is the seven headed dragon revelation
actually the python or maybe a symbol of Rome, which had seven hills. It is. I would argue that
the the imagery there is supposed to reflect both. Because what we have in Revelation 12,
nine, and there's going to be another question upcoming saying Revelation 12, 17, doesn't that
refer to the serpent in the Garden of Eden? Or could it refer to the serpent in the Garden of Eden?
And I would argue, no, Revelation 12, nine refers to a serpent and a dragon. And there's only one
place in all of the Greek Bible where you have these two things coming together. And that's in
Isaiah 27, one, where it refers to Leviathan as that twisting serpent, that wriggling serpent,
the dragon who lives in the sea, at least according to the the ancient Greek translation. And Isaiah
27, one is riffing on an earlier Eucharistic text that praises ball for this right for destroying
Lothon, that wriggling serpent, that twisting serpent, the dragon with seven heads. And so
the the idea of a seven headed headed dragon is actually found in a number of different
societies around the world. But I think that's being picked up in Revelation. So that ancient
serpent is not the serpent in the Garden of Eden. It's Leviathan. And but it conveniently can also
be used as as a symbol of the seven hills of Rome. Right. Thank you. All right. P.I. Sunday,
225 Euro Super Chat that was blank. So thank you very much. Thanks. Yeah.
M.J.R. Schneider for five Canadian dollars says is Revelation 12 17 a reference to Genesis
three 15. And if it is, isn't that a biblical connection between Satan and the serpent of even?
Yeah. So that's that's why you just so there is the connection that is made between Satan
and the serpent in Eden is actually made by Paul. Paul. Yeah. I believe right. Where he talks about
how I don't know the language that he specifically uses. But at one point he says you will the God
of the the God of peace will soon crush Satan underfoot. I've always taken as as an illusion
to Genesis three 14. It's three 14. So but I think I think Paul has that in in mind at least
while he's writing a lot of this. But Jen, you you may have it's bad. I'm not I'm not up on them.
I don't like Romans 16 20. That's what I was looking at. Oh, yeah. Okay. There's another
reference like when he talks about the woman being deceived. There's a reference. I think
I don't like his interpretation of Genesis three in general. You know, he's in a street. Yeah.
Yeah. Second Corinthians. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, just as we're all like staring at our screens,
and I'll just throw an anecdote out there from the from the the Syriac book of the cave of treasures
where where Satan comes to the garden and and the the the interpreter here that's retelling the
story of this snake at the Garden of Eden just is reflecting on how this could happen that the snake
could actually speak to Eve and says, you know, how would a snake even talk? And he says, and it's
just like when you have a bird and you teach it to speak Greek, you hold a mirror up in front of
the bird and you stand behind it, speaking to it in Greek. And the bird will look at you and see
his mate and think that his mate is speaking to him and will repeat the words and then he will
speak Greek. Amazing. About birds and anatomy and snakes. Birds have a syrinx, which is what
allows certain species of bird to pronounce things that sound like human speech. Snakes don't even
really have vocal cords. So even if that is how you got a bird to speak, it wouldn't work for a snake
because they literally can't make the kinds of sounds that humans would recognize the speech.
It cannot be produced by a snake. That's why some snakes have done things like evolved rattles
because they can't piss you or scream at you. So they have to use some other part of their anatomy
to make a noise to warn you, hey, you're getting close. I would rather not have to bite you in
waste-precious venom, but I totally will. Snake talks in the forest. Does anybody hear him?
I'm trying to see how Roman 1620 connects with Genesis 3, but the Greek there actually
didn't say crush your head. Doesn't it? It says to guard or watch or keep.
Oh, wow. I've got to go back and look at that. Thanks.
Well, maybe there's a variation on that sub-tuogen passage that Paul is talking about.
I don't know.
Wow.
Five pounds just sends a thumbs up, which reminds me, if you have not hit like on this live stream,
please do that. It does help get this into the algorithm.
Smash that like button.
Yes, please.
Yes, smash.
As the kids are saying.
Indeed.
That's how they say it.
The Rojo Show, Gen X, the BS for $5 says,
the Christian's God is the Bible, and apparently the all-knowing can't go outside its binder.
Well, not all of them, but I think there's certainly some for whom God is the Bible.
As much as people like Mike Winger would absolutely deny that, I think the label fits.
I certainly thought of it that way, without being conscious of it,
but just put those on the same. His language demonstrated that, and I used to think like
that, that reading the Bible is like reading the words of God, without realizing what that was
that premise was saying. I saw it on the same level as God, essentially. Treat it
interacted with it that way.
Yeah.
Supreme Scientist for $10 says, according to the Bible, God confused the languages after the tower
of, I think it means Babel incident, not Bible incident.
Why is it now our fault that we have to struggle to find the quote,
unoriginal meaning of its words?
It's just part of the curse, right?
God messed that one up too.
Bad decision.
Actually, we just talked about the Tower of Babel on our show, on my channel, didn't we?
I have a video about that as well.
There was a woman who was claiming that Hebrew was the original language,
and all the languages other than Hebrew were made at the Tower of Babel.
And the Egyptian hieroglyphs, yeah, and this was wild. The Egyptian hieroglyphs were all
developed from those 22 proto-alphabetic characters that became Hebrew. It was something.
It was very backwards.
Yes.
David Aquarius for $20 says,
I've been dying to ask this question. If you had to create a spiritual worldview
that's consistent with your scholarship, what would that look like?
Is there an existing religion that even comes close? Love you all. Heart emoji.
Well, I think, hmm, I'm a little, I'm not entirely sure what a spiritual,
like, does he mean like a religious worldview?
Yeah, accepting some sort of spiritual or religious experience, I guess.
Stets of ideas.
I mean, I did it. I did it for years.
And you made your own religion?
What? Sorry, what?
Did you make your own religion?
No, no, not that, but I, well, I mean, maybe I think on some level, we all sort of,
we all sort of conceptualize this to make it work for ourselves, right?
Like for years, while I was still a confessing Christian, I organized my own worldview in
such a way where I could accommodate my critical scholarship while I attended an evangelical
church. There's strategies to do it, right? Like it's...
I mean, I can say, for instance, I find some of the basic ideas within Buddhist
framework, I find really helpful because I think those, you know, acknowledging that,
that, acknowledging the way and why suffering happens and having a framework for how to process
that and manage it moving forward. I mean, that's, that's my language that isn't Buddhist
language, but that's what they're getting at often with this, the Four Noble Truths and then the,
the Eight Noble Eightfold Path, right? So, you know, I, there's some ideas about how the world
works there that I find really helpful. And then I move on to other things that I've learned along
the way. So it would, it would be very, you know, science and human studies friendly and,
you know, like how do, you know, things around morals and ethics and things like that that I've
picked up along the way from various perspectives. So I don't know, but that's, that's my two cents.
Okay. Okay. Well, I, I mean, I do have a religion that I would support. It would be
Apollo Dionysianism, which would be, it's called drinking wine in the sun.
And that definitely underscores your scholarship. Yeah. And I, my scholarship would consider that
a, a pure reception of the great myths. And this is really out of bounds for my social media
participation. But I'll just say that in the period of my most acute kind of spirituality,
to speak of spirituality apart from like religious participation, I would have said that
whoever was born of the union of Dave Matthews and Jewel would be my Messiah.
So you can probably, you can probably date that period in my life pretty accurately just based on that.
So, so good. Dr. Clark Van Gilbert says for $4.99 US, what's the pay-per-view fee for the
Winger v. Lewis fight tonight? Or sorry, fight night. There we go. Take my mind now. Yeah, mine too.
That's Megan Lewis, not Lennox Lewis.
A supreme scientist for $2 says, how confident can we be about what Jesus said?
Not incredibly. Yeah, not me. Yeah. This is something that I talked with Helen Bond about
on our date over dogma podcast. That was a great episode, by the way. I thought she did
wonderfully. And she commented, yeah, we can get kind of the gist of the worldview,
but in terms of actual words spoken, there's no way to be confident about anything in there.
All right. TX scientist for $9.99 US says, I was indoctrinated in Church of Christ as a kid,
and they said the kingdom coming was ax two and Pentecost, a reinterpretation there. Keep up the
great work. I think ax two would have said that they were fulfilling Joel. Yeah, they were,
and they're pretty explicit about that, right? Yeah. But I agree that Pentecostal churches
would be telling people, so like the Church of Christ, would be telling people that the kingdom
actually comes next to an ax two and not with the crucifixion or resurrection, because that is a
super normal Pentecostal way of interpreting things. So in those Pentecostal churches,
like the Church of Christ, they would, that I can see. So I think that's actually really cool to
see that way of interpreting it. That we're just like you kind of, you pick the spot where you like
like your theology the most to say, well, this is where it actually happens.
All right. Now, this is a bit of a two-parter. Lord dissident says Jesus didn't exist, he was a
myth, and then also follows it up with, neither did Moses or Muhammad, and I'm not used to having
Muhammad mythicism bandied about. That's a relatively new one for me. David Fitzgerald is
starting to flirt with that idea. I won't be surprised if none of you know who David Fitzgerald
is, but he is one. I actually do know who he is. He asked me to blur one of his books or something,
and I just didn't have time to, I like the guy, what I know, but I just can't muster enough
attention to feel comfortable. Anyway, sorry. Anyway, yes, back to what you're saying,
it's more important. Is David doing saying that about Muhammad, that there's no actual...
In some of his, he says he's writing a book about how virtually all the religious figures,
like all the religious founders from Buddha, to Moses, to Jesus, to Muhammad, they're all just
Dave Matthews and Jewel. They're all just them too. I'm unfortunately a well-known Bob
skeptic, and I know we have photographs of the Bob, but I don't care. In case anyone knows what
Bobism is, which no one does anymore. Oh, I thought you're, sorry, I thought you're referring to the
from Baha'u'llah. Well, so the Bob actually is the predecessor of Baha'u'llah. The Baha'u'llah
was a Bobist. I'm going one step back. I know, the Bob didn't exist. Baha'u'llah, no, he's great.
You see, mix Friday evening to Sunday morning is in no way three days. Charitably, it's two days,
but more accurately, a day and a half. Can someone explain this? It's just on the third day. So for
ideas day one, Saturday's day two, on the third day. There is the conflict with the sign of Jonah,
however, where it says, as Jonah was in the belly of the great fish for three days and three nights,
so the Son of Man will be in the heart of the earth for three days and three nights, and that is
totally inaccurate. But yeah, if I flew on a plane to California on a Friday and then came back on a
Sunday, and then my boss asked me why I was late to work, I'd be like, oh, I've been in California
for three days. You just speak in kind of generalities when you talk about that kind of thing.
It's not required to be 72 hours on the dot.
All right, Hang Fashi for $20 says, an omnibene being needing any being to be killed to propitiate,
it is really fracked up. So it always worked me how when I think that's Adam and Eve realized
they're nude, God gives them animal skin togas, those animals must have been like, whoa, WTF, bro.
Yeah, no, this issue of actually just sitting with processing what we're saying that God's
anger at us for being who he created us to be according to the narratives, right,
is so great that his anger can only be appeased by taking the life of someone innocent and full
without sin and all this stuff. It's really stunning that I didn't see that for so long,
but I see it differently now than I did when I was an evangelist.
And I think this is related to the same issue with the child sacrifice,
is you are receiving this tradition and then renegotiating it. And so the whole idea of animal
sacrifice is that somebody needs this to eat, probably originally deceased ancestors,
which then became deities. And so there's a perception that they need this. And then you
receive that tradition. And at some point, you're like, do they really need this?
But it's the received tradition. And so you rationalize it in whatever way you need to. And
this goes into ritual theory and ideas about how this is causally opaque, where we don't really
know what on earth is going on here or any relationship between what we're doing and
something we hope to get on the other end. But we do it because this is what we do.
You missed a step there, Dan, because it gets watered down and all that kind of stuff. And
then it turns into money. Because you get to a point where we're like, wait a minute,
why are we making them give food? Why are we birded? Wait, can't they just give us money?
And this is where Josiah's reform comes in. And he's like, I kind of like everybody having
to come here. Maybe we shouldn't rebuild all of the cult sites that Sennacherib destroyed. So
guess what I just found in the temple? Whoa, it turns out you're supposed to be
bringing all your money to me. So amazing. The original prosperity preacher.
There you go. Hey, all good for 10 Canadian dollars says this is for Dr. Bird. What are your
thoughts on Song of Songs 311 crowned him on the day of his wedding, the day his heart rejoiced.
And then also he went on to later say he messed up the Hebrew. And I'm not going to subject you
to my attempts to read the Hebrew. Okay, what? Sorry, Song of Songs 311.
I believe that is what SOS 311 is referring to. Yeah, yeah. He made its post of silver,
its back of gold seed of purple. Daughters of Jerusalem come out and look at King Solomon
at the crown with which his mother crowned him on the day of his wedding, on the day of the gladness
of his heart. I, to be honest, this is not a passage I've spent any time with prior to this.
So I mean, I've read through Song of Solomon many times, but I've not stopped to sit with this.
So I'm so sorry. I'm not sure what you are curious about in this in this verse.
Do you mean in the light of this, what I'm saying about marriage in the in the Hebrew
Bible that there's no verb to marry maybe? Is that what you're asking perhaps?
I'm guessing that's it on the day of his wedding. So I haven't looked at that. It's a great question
if that's what you're getting at. Is the Hebrew word there? Say that again.
Yeah, I don't. Which looks looks like it's a, that's a hop-hocs. That's the only place
that word occurs. Oh, interesting. So hey, hop-hocs ligamanan. Is that, yeah, just for people who
don't know what that means? It happens once. But obviously it's etymologically related to
the chatan. And I would, oh, oh, right. So one of the, so I would need to look at it. I'm so sorry.
I can't offer a more informed response to the question, but I appreciate you bringing it to my
attention. All right, Supreme Scientist for $2 says we're the God needs apologies to speak for him
with a cry laugh emoji. John Y. Spinoza for $9.99 US says Dr. D. I think that's probably Dan.
I've been trying to register for upcoming Ming next Sunday and can't,
your site keeps saying page not found tried multiple browsers need some help.
Yeah, this is something that's been happening with, with the, the platform Kajabi and they're not
being incredibly helpful. We have set up a Venmo at the desk alloy spelled exactly like the website.
We, you can also contribute directly through paypal.me forward slash M-A-K-L-E-L-A-N. Just let
us know which class you're registering for. Let us and give us an email address and we'll
manually register you. So sorry, I'm apologized for that. I keep contacting Kajabi and they're
not being incredibly helpful. So we are looking for alternatives, but in the meantime, that's our
workaround. All right, hard work for $4.99 says they've criticized him 666 times. So here we go.
It was only 616. I wish I had the Latin veritas, right?
That's right. Yeah, boring turtle for $20 says, Hey, Kip, I was recently watching a video where
you were talking remnants of polytheism in certain passages, i.e. Genesis 126. I was
wondering if we see a transition from less to more monotheism from older to newer manuscripts.
So I used to think this was probably the case and I am seriously reconsidering a lot of that.
Moving forward, and actually, Dan has done a fair bit more work on this kind of stuff
than I have. And I was excited about the virtual conference that you guys have
upcoming, but I'm now disappointed that I'm going to have to wait.
I can probably get you a Zoom link. Oh, that'd be great, if you could.
Do you want to say something about this? Do you want to say something about this?
Oh, about the conference? No, no, about the transition.
As I see it, the transition from less to more monotheism from older to newer manuscripts.
Well, I am an advocate for not imposing monotheism anywhere on the Bible,
that this is a post-biblical philosophical innovation and framework, and so it harms
our reading to read the Bible through the lens of monotheism.
Now, you do certainly have this elevation of Adonai and the denigration of the other
gods of the nations, and they get treated as they get dismissed using a variety of different
rhetorical terms, and they get demoted to angelic status or demonic status or things like that,
but you still have recognition of other gods from beginning to end. They're all over the
Dead Sea Scrolls, even within Christianity, even within rabbinic Judaism, there are references
to the gods. And so, no, you don't see a movement at all. And I think part of the reason is that
with a text like Genesis 1.26, that's so deeply embedded in the foundations of that,
that you're just going to get some kind of interpretation that becomes normative that
allows it to carry on without causing trouble. And so, Christians do that by saying, oh, it's
the Trinity, which is ridiculous, but that means, okay, we have a place for that on the
shelf, we'll put it up on the shelf, we don't have to worry about it anymore. So, it's not a problem.
And so, you don't have a reason to need to change it later on down the road, and Judaism
came up with its own ways to do that as well. I can offer a better answer to that other question
now, since I've had a minute. I'm not as quick on the Hebrew as my colleagues here, and I needed
some minutes. You were going to be like, I can offer a better answer than Dan.
That day will never come, Dan. Just let me just. I just needed a minute to take a look at that.
They knew what they were looking at better than I did. So, the form of the verb there,
the day of, in the day, so, biyom hatunato, right, is the form of this noun or verb,
depending on which way you look at it. So, the root there is about this, the hatan. This is
the reference to one person in this, this is being made legitimate, you know, comparing
through this, through the act of circumcision. So, the importance of circumcision in making this,
one member is not of the Israelites and the other is. And so, there's this covering of the other
to make it part of the Israelites through the, through the reference of circumcision. And it's,
so, that's, that verb is one of the verbs used to talk about marriage, which I use with air quotes.
And then, so, this, in the day of this happening for him, he's covering his non-Israelite partner.
But it's not, this is a wedding that's taking place. It's a, it's a reference to a status
that people do or do not have, one of them does not have in this pairing and is being covered by
the other to make this a legitimate Israelite kind of a thing. And so, that, again, is an example,
in my opinion, of that's a hard thing to represent briefly. Like, I'm having a hard time describing
it. And so, there's a shorthand being used to say, in the day of his wedding, but that's,
that's not what I read in the Hebrew language there. And that's a choice they've made. And I'm
probably most English translation committees, or, you know, translation committees that come up with
English are going to use that, because it's really hard to get at what they're, what the word is
saying versus what it's ultimately pointing to is what we call a wedding, right? So, I hope that's
helpful. Michael Apple for $10 US says, seriously, admitted, you just want to sin. Don't we all
category, I don't know if they're being serious. So, I just wanted to say that, like, I just have
let go of the category of sin. And I find it so harmful and harmful, unhelpful, all kinds of things.
And I, I'm assuming Michael's being playful, but, but it's come up a few times. I just want to be
clear. All right, archival blob, sorry, almost said Bob for 26 says, just wanted to say thank you
all for doing this. And yes, that is Swedish crown right now. Thank you, archival blob.
All right, food rocker for $5 says it seems to me the empty tomb relies heavily on Joseph
of Arimathea being a real figure. Do scholars agree on his existence?
I don't think so. But I'm, in fact, even in that, in that book that I showed you from Jodi Magnus,
she mentions just very briefly that, you know, this, this could be a real guy, but, but not
necessarily. And even in the absence of, you know, and historical Joseph of Arimathea, this doesn't
even really necessarily detract from the idea that, and historical Jesus might have been laid
in a new tomb. But it, yeah, I would say that the premise of the empty tomb does not actually
rely that heavily upon the idea of this guy being real. It's a tomb, right? The story has this idea
that's trope, right? As, as Matt was talking about before, right? It's empty, blah, blah, blah.
All right, Heng-Fa she for $10 US says, what do you guys think of all the Hebrew references
finding their way into our Thurian legends? Arim on the hilt of Excalibur and Galut exile,
sick name for a sword, being the name of Gawain sword? Well, I don't, I don't ever think about
those sorts of things. So somebody else is going to have to answer this question.
For me, it's like, why are there so many cities in this country named after biblical towns? I mean,
you know, like, because people find it, it's fond to them, right? It's important to them,
so they're going to play with it. If that is an illiterate, literal, recent like connection
that's been made for the writers. Yeah. Yeah. And I think it is. I mean, we know that in
already the the venerable bead knows about the Hebrew chronologies and is using,
you know, maybe not using Hebrew sources, per se, but actually, but knows about the Hebrew
Bible and the differences with this with the Septuagint and those kind of things. So
we know that these traditions have made their way all the way to England in the eighth century and
stuff. So we're, it's not, it's not surprising that we find, find early English legends making
use of Hebrew stuff. And one of the, one of the chapters in my book on the names of the wives,
the patriarchs, is about the names of the daughters of Adam and Eve that make their way into like
from Syriac. So they're given in Syriac in the, probably in the end of the sixth century,
these names are made up and they make their way all the way into the vernacular Bibles of the
Middle Ages in English, French, Dutch, German, Old Norse. So they're, and so these names show up
there. And so it's one of the things is just tracing that reception history of these names
of the daughters of Adam and Eve that, that to find their way into the place, the weirdest places
that you wouldn't expect. And so like the way these traditions dance around and especially names
or, or these kind of like Urim, that's, it's exactly the kind of thing that you would imagine
would show up in a popular religious expression somewhere. You reminded me of a short story,
which is when I was in college, I once used for a final paper as my primary source,
some Anglo-Saxon texts that went back to the Venerable Veed. And so my professor had to call me
in and kind of demonstrate that I was actually capable of using an Anglo-Saxon language source
for by final paper because he was a little skeptical about that. So that was fun.
It turns out history professors are actually really impressed when you can use a language
that they don't know. That's nice. Not a linguist. You don't have to be a linguist to have taken,
you know, old English earlier that semester. That's, which is exactly what happened.
A Grigory Gahan for $6 US said, started working through the SBL Bible or study Bible, sorry.
Where would you recommend late persons begin who are pursuing the interest, but not in a formal
setting? Like the interest of biblical studies. I actually have a recommendation that a standard
recommendation I make, which is John Barton's A History of the Bible, The Book and Its Faiths,
which I think is the best introduction to a critical scholarly approach to the Bible,
where it comes from, how it came together, how traditions historically have read it. Because
the third part is all about here's how the early Christians began to read it, began to make sense
of it as scripture. Here's how Jewish people began to read it, began to make use of it as scripture.
So I think that's and lots of wonderful references in there. And so with a good study
Bible and that history of the Bible, I think you'll be able to find and identify things you want to go
chase down. And that's a good foundation for pursuing whatever the precise route you want to pursue is.
All right. So next Satan's Guide sent in a three Superchasse for $9.99 that all had mostly the
same message. And I think what's actually happening is he was going through and fixing the typo.
Yeah, Satan's Guide for actually for $30, you know, minus three cents says,
unhumbled by these videos, videos, yeah, you need to do another correction there.
Well, what are the other ones had had videos so unhimbled.
Praise public facing value. So let's see, so valuable, so needed. There we go. Between them all,
we got a full Super Chat that was free. So and this is this is so amazing because text critically,
we could say that we can find the original text. We can figure out what's going on, right?
And and but then, you know, as manuscript scholars, we would all say that there's no one there's no
text here. There's no ur chat.
We get to the point of this. We know the meaning. We know what his point is, right?
That's what matters.
Phil Osteen for $15 says a little something to keep you all in unleavened bread with
we're either going with the blessing hand gesture or the live long and prosper hand gesture.
I feel like I feel like that's
a QQ for you. Would Jesus have believed in things like souls or even heaven and thanks to
all of you for the true and rising value of your scholarship and engagement?
Dan wrote the book on it. So I think
I wrote a book on this as it relates to the Hebrew Bible, but also there was a little bit about
the New Testament. Yeah, I think that early Judaism did believe in something that was
kind of parallel to what we think of as as the soul. They they thought of a locus of agency
of cognition of emotion and things like that that was separable from the corporeal body and that
constituted the person and, you know, it was situationally emergent and different.
And so yeah, Jesus probably would have thought of something like that. The Jesus we see represented
in the Gospels is sometimes a little more philosophically oriented, sometimes a little
more like aesthetically oriented. We get a few different representations of Jesus, but
a first entry CE Galilean apocalyptic itinerant preacher probably would have had a concept of
a soul. Heaven probably would have been a little more up in the air. You don't really get the
development of concepts of postmortem punishment and rewards until just a couple centuries earlier
in the Greco-Roman period. And so that's still developing. And I think a lot of people would
have thought that heaven was going to be just a paradise on earth kind of thing until you get
the more philosophically sophisticated developments going on after Jesus's life. That's just my
I think in Jesus time, one of the important things that we should be wary of is the fact that
for Jesus and for the earliest Christians, the kingdom of God was a real tangible thing that
they were expecting, you know, to take place on earth.
All right, the free thinker for 999 US says, what do you make of Hawkemeyer kitchen arguments for
early dating of exodus based on Egyptian etymology of names, polemics against Pharaoh, slave price
matching early and not late dates, etc. Well, the slave price that we find in the covenant code is
almost identical to Hammurabi and all the other things from over a thousand years before. So
that's not a huge get there to say the prices are the same. Yeah, the prices stayed the same
for a long, long time. And the etymology of names, I mean, this stuff is being written when
Egypt exercises quite a bit of hegemony in the region. And so that's not a huge surprise.
And has for a long time, right? Yeah. Hasakai is the seal and the impressions
belonging to the king from Hasakai have scarabs and ureuses on them. So
like this is an Egyptian territory. So it's not a surprise.
Are you saying that people can be familiar with more than one language that's around them
at the time of their life and cultures too, right? Like there's there's, there's, there's cultural
exchange going on. Okay. The people's weanest for 1999 US. It's a double you get your minds out of
the gutter. Come on, people. They wanted us to laugh. We're all old enough that we saw friends,
right? Because hello, it's lovely seeing all of you together. How do you as individuals and as
a collective guard against interpretive frameworks or scholarly consensus from being a dogmo within
the critical scholarly community? Yeah. So that's a good question. Yeah. And this is something I
worry about an awful lot. And particularly in the way that I engage with and then represent the
scholarly consensus. But I and this is one of the reasons that I think we need apologists and we
need more conservative scholars because we need people to push back against us and to that's
grist for the mill that compels us to strengthen our arguments to consider other possibilities.
And so I think that's all necessary friction. And without it, it does turn it it does become
more dogmatic. But I think the the main key is just constantly being self critical and constantly
the the academy has to keep reevaluating these things. And I think the academy does a really
good job of that. I mean, it's it's not flying off in the left field as much as some people try
to make it sound like it is. Well, it's the opposite, I would say, like that's so I think for me,
so he said personally and collectively. So personally, I think this is a really big deal
because it's really easy for the things you work with every day to not get stuck on the idea that
there's a consensus, because you realize that everything you read, everything you're doing,
you're seeing people are always challenging the consensus. And so that's what research is is
kind of taking the consensus and saying, Well, what about this little piece? Or what about
that little piece? And occasionally, someone comes and says, we have to throw out the whole
consensus, because now we have enough of these little bits and pieces. And we we that's what
that's what scholarship is. But the problem is when it's not your field. And so, like,
when you're when you're really into something, you're reading all the stuff you're in it,
you're you're aware of what's going on. But when it's not, you might think that the consensus
is where you were when you were in grad school. And and you just haven't read the read the more
advanced literature in the meantime. And that's where it can become dogmatic, because you don't
have the, you know, you don't have anything to to strengthen or to argue for. And you just say,
Well, the consensus is this or that or the other. And so I think it's that's like, for me, it's that
scholarship doesn't get stuck on consensus is because we that's that like every young scholar
out there is looking for an angle to be able to contribute something to write their PhD on to do
their postdoc on to advance scholarship. And that means challenging something.
But for me personally, it's about listening to other people trying to learn and trying to let
other people contribute to the fields where they are actually experts. Yeah. And I think that's
that's something that frustrates me to no end. When people say, Oh, the Academy is just writing
dissertations to prove the that everything everybody already agrees with is true. It's like,
you know, absolutely nothing about the Academy, because you can't you can't even propose a PhD
without saying you're going to change something. Yeah.
All right, I'm gonna have to just just just say here, we're probably going to have we can probably
only go for about another 15 minutes or so. There are a pile of super chat. So if we can just just
blitz through these quickly and please people stop sending sending them because we got to get
going. All right, from now on all responses, five second max. Here we go. Ready? And only super
chat. All of Blake 499. Do you think critical scholarship has a PR problem? Also, how long do
you think until the conclusions of scholarship are widely accepted in the United States?
I think we're working on that. I think there is a bit of a PR problem. And I think we're doing what
we can to try to make it more of these. Yeah, more of this kind of stuff. Sorry, guys. I agree.
All right, Kyle cracker 499 says my hand cannon is that Jeff's daughter and her companions had a
two month or or why do more in her virginity. Yeah. Yeah, that that was also it's a read that's
one thing that I've wondered about reading that text is what does it mean to go out into the woods
or into the wilderness to more near virginity or that means to live it up for that period of time.
I don't but I don't have any other reason than my head cannon like Kyle Pratt says I haven't
ever looked into it. But I've thought that same thing. And this is also probably just some dude
making up the story. And so yeah, Robin Webster for $2 says appreciate all the work. Thank you.
And PI returns with a 225 Euro Super Chat to say love your content. I follow all your channels,
even though apparently everyone here is going to hell.
Supreme scientist for $5 says the Bible says his servants will serve him Revelation 22 3.
Am I wrong to consider the slavery in heaven? Curious what scholarship says about it.
I agree. I mean, yeah, I think that the servants is usually a slave in the Greek.
Yeah, doulos doesn't have a whole lot of difference from slavery there.
Yeah, and that and that's a repeated ideology that you should be a slave to Christ.
Absolutely. Yeah, I really Christianity buys it. It's Paul calls himself a slave of Christ.
One interesting thing is for a while I was attending a church whose primary language is
actually Arabic. And a lot of the times doulos in Greek was translated as had,
which is cognate with evad and just been slave. So so that's at least how some of the
Arab Christians are thinking about it. And those translations go back quite a ways too.
So it's a it's a long standing thing Christianity in a lot of different cultures.
Well, that's what the name Abdullah means, right?
Yeah, that means slave. And then all the other things that you have, like Abdul Rahman,
that those are all the 99 names of God that are stereotypical names in Arabic.
Wayne Wright, Christian thinker and heretic for $20 says,
does the argument in Hebrews 10 one through 10 have real theological issues?
Psalm 40 in most Bibles doesn't read that way. His whole argument is based on the way
the Septuagint, I think renders it, which ones which ones occur in the Septuagint or Hebrew?
Boy, yeah, I'd have to I'd have to get into it.
I mean, even just the question about real theological issues.
Um, I would, without even seeing, I'm pulled it up really quickly. But since the law has only
a shadow of the good things, yeah, we're talking about laws and sacrifices.
I'm just going to go out on a limb. And I know that this, I shouldn't approach it.
There's a lot there. There are a lot of theological issues in the book of Hebrews, period.
It's highly anti-Judaic. It's highly X, Y and Z. I mean, it's just a very, in my opinion, very
biased and strong opinion. It is, it's a horrific book in general. So when you want to take the
theological claims and trust them, that concerns me without getting into the specifics of the
passage. But I do know the body you have prepared for me. I'm almost certain that that is,
that doesn't line up with the Hebrew, that that is a step to a gentle departure from the Hebrew.
All right. Kitsune, for five pounds says, do you think that Danil in the Eugirdic story of
Akkad is one of the righteous ones mentioned in Ezekiel, despite being a Bible worshiper?
It's a good question. It is a good question. And you have to wonder at this point how much,
you know, how far widespread this tradition is and what it looked like in for Ezekiel,
if he had it. There's no guarantee that it was static or the same as how it survived at Eugaret,
right? Because those texts are like 12th century.
All right. This is definitely from one of my subscribers. You can tell because of the very
strange name. Faith to Grace Brown from the Unicellular Wedding Chapel for $5 says,
y'all are awesome. Always happy to see a dinosaur linguist, which you're still not seeing.
What are your thoughts on apology as minimal witness theory?
Minimal witness theory.
I'm not familiar with apology as minimal witness theory.
Any of you guys familiar with apology as minimal witness theory?
I am a little bit, so maybe I'll tackle this. I think it's interesting.
Apology as theory is that only Peter, and I think maybe one other disciple had
post bereavement and hallucinations of Jesus and managed to convince everybody. And over time,
this became Christianity. I would agree with Dale Allison here that the one thing that
I think is challenging for apologia is the fact that in the earliest creed that we have,
there is specific mention of Jesus appearing to the 12, not just to Peter and to James.
But he's got some good ideas in there, definitely.
All right. A.L. Goose for two Canadian dollars says, thanks all. I'm going to read Dr. Bird's
book on my flight. Taylor for two dollars U.S. says, did Platonism, there we go,
affect Judaism or Christianity? Christianity is the reason that Platonism is still around,
that it is as well known as it is. Actually, I mean, one place you still see a lot of
platonic thinking is with Young Earth creationists when they talk about different kinds of animals,
as if animals actually participated in ideal kinds that pre-exist in the
realm of thoughts, which is how anything works. Like animal-ness or chair-ness.
Hayden Tank for 599 euros says, any book recommendations for ancestral slash animus
worship influences on ancient Near East Israelite cultic practices?
Well, I would say my book talks about Adonize Divine Images, a cognitive approach,
which is an open access volume. You can access the PDF freely online, which tries to build up
a theoretical framework for concepts of deity from how we perceive personhood, how we perceive the
self, how we perceive the world around us. I talk a little bit about ideas of spirits and
spirit possession and all that kind of stuff and how that contributes to ideas about
post-mortem existence in Egypt, in Mesopotamia, in Anatolia, in Ugar, in places like that,
and how that relates to the Bible. There's going to be some of that in here and more
discussion in the references. There's a really interesting suggestion in the chat,
caring for the ancient and dead, for the dead, and I'm tired, in ancient Israel.
I'm not familiar with, but I imagine that it's worth considering.
Yes, that's Kerry Sonia's book, Caring for the Dead in Ancient Israel,
which is talking an awful lot about ancestral worship and necromancy.
Constellation Pegasus for 1999 US says, what is the oldest rabbinic commentary that is
useful to understand the Old Testament?
Well, the oldest and some rabbinic commentary would be, the oldest material you probably find in
the Mishnah. Constellation Pegasus knows this. I think Constellation Pegasus knows
generally what they're talking about very well. And they're referencing the commentary about the
rabbinics. So what I think depends on, I mean, I don't think there's rabbinic commentary material
that helps us with a historical reading of the Old Testament. But I think that the rabbinic
commentaries are all very interesting as they help us understand how people were reading and
interpreting Scripture in different places at different times and the development of the idea
of what those Scriptures meant to them. And that's, I mean, I think that's
all valuable in every case. So it just depends on what you want. But yeah.
All right, Deep Drinks for $299 Australian Dollars says, favorite sin. We could just go
around like Kip, what's your favorite sin? Mine is mixing fabrics. I don't know about you guys.
Let's go counterclockwise.
Favorite sin? Yeah, I tend to ignite fires on the Sabbath.
I would say eating, including foods. But I've been told on recently good authority that the
Mitzvot don't apply to dinosaurs. So I guess I can't give one.
There's nothing, right? Freedom in the dinosaur.
Yeah, there you go. I mean, to be fair, the Bible doesn't say anything about non-humans
eating unclean food. It seems to just be okay with that. So, all right.
The Bible doesn't say anything about non-Jews eating unclean food either.
I mean, yeah, there is that too, right? But that's fair.
Jevon, I think it's Jevon, I'm not sure. Buford for $5 says, any thoughts or
knowledge on the subject of the Holy Spirit being known as the Divine Mother and the subject
on the cosmic Christ, anything at all?
My first thought was this, give me a second to come up with a name, the book, the title,
Holy Misogyny, Dekonic, April Dekonic, I think is her name, talks about, that was the
source for me, at least, learning about some of the baptismal fonts in Egypt and Alexandria that
are in the shape of a vulva and the references to, yeah, the Holy Spirit being the Mother,
so Mother, Father, Son in the Trinity. So that's the source I would send you to,
to get some primary sources on that, because I don't have them off the top of my head.
All right, Daniel Wesley for $5 says, is an interdictional approach to scripture of
viable means for scholars to demonstrate the history, sorry, the history of texts and the
evolution of ideas to lay readers? I mean, there are, there are words and concepts in there that
most scholars would, wouldn't use in talking about this, but recognizing how texts are making use
of other texts is absolutely a big part of trying to arrange them chronologically and
relatively, and then trying to understand how they're, how they're developing and making use of
each other. All right, and here's our last super chat, and it is from Lady Wasser for 999 US who
says, I'm at work at 35,000 feet. Actually, I guess it says 35.000 feet. It's a very, very
exact altitude right there. Very precise. Just talking about it, say hi to the dream team,
and since the video isn't loaded, I won't be able to hear Dr. Bird laughing. Unfortunately.
But Lady Wasser is going to watch later, because she always does. What a world, eh?
Watching, watching a live YouTube feed at 35. And I appreciate the positive vote on my laugh,
given some of the chatter. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Well, guys, it's been almost three hours. There
are still 580 people watching. Oh my gosh. Thank you so much to everyone for coming out. I, I mean,
ordinarily, we talk a little bit about, about what we're doing, what's up coming. Not today.
We're good. Not today. I think we're good. So we're gonna, we're gonna shut it down.
And we will see you in a month. Thanks again. Thanks for watching us. Thanks,
everybody. A great day. Later.
