වවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවව
වවවවවවවවවetu වවවවවවව prend
වවවවවවවවවවවළ
Councillors who are always Examples of what isրe cooking  Switzerland
ఇర్కిక఺ www.bestell.me
ఇక్దతాణరస glaze occasion.
కారసడి Wing of Shifi
ఆలానై పమమちゃん చాలాక ధసాన�уж excuses
ఈతిదాకా .
对 ఏరిమ్చమాలిపему
నా ఔంణివతానభౚ
These are some big questions that may not feel like they need to be questions, but they are important questions because the topic as my guest says is a little prickly.
My guest today is Michael Granado, who is currently completing his PhD in philosophy at Staffordshire University.
His research focuses on Gaston Bachelard.
Oh my gosh, I asked a million times how to pronounce it, I keep getting wrong.
On Gaston Bachelard's philosophy of time.
Bachelard presents a relational theory of time that attempts to reconcile the developments of relativity theory with our psychological experience of time using analogies drawn from quantum mechanics.
Oh my gosh, I apologize for that intro, but welcome guest Michael Granado.
Thank you for coming on Michael, my gosh.
No worries, no worries.
I have to preface this by saying I haven't had much sleep.
We've got a newborn and last night I only got a few hours sleep and sometimes my brain just reboots like that.
It's all good.
You have a built in fantastic excuse.
You have no one to apologize to.
Oh my gosh.
Anyway, thank you so much for coming on.
So this topic is an interesting one.
One because a lot of people don't realize that it is interesting because people just think time is time.
And then another thing is because it's it's it's one of those things that is incredibly complex and it's going to be a fun game to try and keep it as entertaining as possible.
I said to Michael we want to be somewhere between Joe Rogan experience and a scientific lecture so like somewhere in the middle of that.
Before we
Someone said Michael Granado is getting his PhD in
Sorry everyone.
I'm not very good at that.
I'll post the actual name in the chat so everyone can see.
So Michael, what are we drinking today?
First of all.
Yeah, so I figured we'd spice it up a little bit.
And this was when you were doing your sober January, I think it was.
Yeah, we're drinking a tea, Yoruba mate.
I came across this because I'm, I have a really nasty caffeine.
I mean, it's an addict. It's a full blown addiction, but I've been trying to to not drink five pots of coffee a day and so I switched to tea, especially not as tea.
I thought it was caffeinated and Yoruba mate is kind of the closest thing to it is like a green tea.
Okay, still got caffeine in it by the way.
It's just not, you know, it's not the special shots I'm doing so.
Oh, also. Okay, cool.
Well, I've never had it before and when you when you sent it to me, I thought you were joking because I thought you misspelt something because as an Australian, I read it as Yerba mate.
I thought you're saying like you want to do herbal tea mate like I thought you that's what you're saying.
So anyway, so first question, let's jump straight into it.
Does time exist?
Right.
Oh yeah, we'll just start off with that.
Okay, so as David and I were talking about this before, philosophy of time is one of those areas of philosophy that is.
Let me say some negative characteristics first overly pretentious comes to mind.
It can be very, very academic and dense oftentimes unnecessarily so.
And I say all that to say that there's this there's this phrase that the Buddha uses in one of the dialogues where he's talking about
trying to achieve enlightenment and he says that it's like trying to tie the air into knots.
It's like a useless exercise.
Yeah.
I feel like that's a lot of a lot of academic philosophy.
And I especially feel that that's the case with the philosophy of time.
So I'm going to throw around some philosophical jargon.
I'm going to try to keep it as as jargon free as possible.
But let me actually answer your question.
Another thing, another thing just to mention, you wanted to make me you wanted it.
You wanted me.
Why?
Am I a stroke?
Why you wanted me to make it known that you're definitely not a physicist.
However, you're this is your PhD thesis, right?
Well, the arguments around this is your PhD thesis.
So you may not.
You may not be behind a telescope or under a microscope like studying this stuff.
But I don't even know that you don't study that stuff like that.
But you are you are an expert in the arguments around this.
So yes.
Thank you for that.
So let me talk a little bit about what I study and then answer your question.
If that this might actually be somewhat helpful.
Because sometimes when people when I tell people what I study, they invite me on and then they ask me a bunch of questions about physics, which I'm I barely passed high school algebra.
Okay.
Maths is not my thing.
But I study philosophy.
A branch of philosophy called philosophy of so we're going to start big and then go narrow and narrow and narrow.
I study philosophy, but most of my background is actually in history, the history of science.
So I have two master's degrees.
One is in the history of early modern science, basically Isaac Newton, Samuel Clark, Leibniz, German philosopher and this debate that they had.
Then my second master's in history was in the reception of Darwinism in the United States.
So most of my academic backgrounds in history.
Well, what am I doing with a PhD in philosophy.
The history of science kind of combines merges with the philosophy of science, especially in the French tradition.
French have this long tradition of what they call historic epistemology, which is contextualizing knowledge.
And for early 20th century French philosophers contextualizing knowledge meant putting it within its proper historic context, even forms of knowledge like science.
And that's where that's kind of what I'm doing.
So I'm studying philosophy, but I'm looking at philosophical issues from the early 20th century.
So it has more of a historic bent to it.
So I'm going to be tossing a lot around a lot of philosophic and scientific jargon, but my academic background is not in science.
It's firmly in history, history of science and in the very small area of the philosophy of science, if that makes sense.
Awesome.
So I guess I can attempt to answer the first question.
Yeah, so does time exist.
Does time exist.
So there are two big two big schools of thought here with respect to time that relate to this question does time exist, which will I'll dig into a little bit more.
But let me just start off by saying time as defined by relativity theory and by some aspects of quantum mechanics.
Einstein famously said that time is just what clocks measure.
So does time exist.
Well, not to sound like a pedantic philosopher, but it depends on what you mean by exist.
So time would be in that respect, a kind of like a second order phenomenon in the same way that money exist.
Right, so money exist, but it's a social construct in the sense of the value that we as human beings place on money causes it to exist.
Socially, we all use it and agree that it has like a social function.
But if you were to take away humanity would money exist.
No, right because something that humans use early 20th century physics will say something very, very similar about time.
That time is what clocks measure to put it in Einstein's words is a very functional account of what time is.
And so if you take away clocks, ie if you take away humans is their time at first glance.
No, if we're just talking about the special theory of relativity and the general theory of relativity time is very functional in that regard.
Meaning there's a function of measurement.
Now that changes in later 20th century physics with the introduction of of in quantum mechanics of fields and of the space time manifold.
So I would say that it just depends on what you mean by exist.
We can start there.
Okay, I just want to say I do see everyone's comments.
I'm just going to we will get around answering them and engaging in a second.
It's just that we've got to we've got to kind of set the foundation in less time than an hour or so before before we can, you know, we've got to set the foundation first.
So, so I remember the reason the reason I kind of ask that question is because I was scratching my brain last night writing down some notes on on what I could ask you about this.
I remember having a conversation with a good friend of mine, Lauren.
And Lauren and I used to we actually deconstructed our faith together kind of like over Facebook Messenger just like talking a lot about it.
And, and she mentioned we took that science a lot and it's been a while since I've talked about science, but I actually just we would throw kind of stoner points out at each other every now and again like what if life is this and what if not that I'm a stoner.
And I remember just a paraphrase I found the comment a paraphrase what I essentially said which was time is a construct that we as a society have invented to account for the decay rate of atoms, the changing of seasons and the rotation of earth around the sun.
The concept of time is an arbitrary tool and only exists in our subconscious experience.
So, it's almost like time is like an inch right like you can determine what an inch is.
But you know, an inch or a foot or a mile only exists in so much as it's an arbitrary length that we have determined that is a tool but but like pointing somewhere in pointing somewhere into the in in in in the material universe to show us what we can describe an inch but we can't point to somewhere in the
universe and say, the universe says that this is an inch with we've arbitrarily chosen parts of the universe to say, this is what represents an inch, but yeah, but what's interesting about the concept around time is, and this might be the same case with an inch, to put it into perspective of an inch, an inch may be different, depending on how you're where you are in the universe so an inch might actually change, not really not inches but time will actually change right so like
we're going to go into a little bit of like the twin paradox and and relativity and things like that but but time can actually be different for two different people in very real and practical ways that have, I guess, I'll ask you about this later but have actually been shown to will not
shown but have actually happened. So, right. Yeah, that's where we started. No, that's good. I mean, it's good that you phrase it like that because asking that's a good friend of mine.
Oh, man, that's good. So someone for those listening someone said, there are only four important inches in my life. So, sorry, I could just see one of my high schoolers watching this video. Yeah.
So, I like how you, I like the nature of the question because it gets to one of the fundamental distinctions in the philosophy of time.
And this is what makes philosophy of time interesting intellectually and also what makes it practical for a lot of people.
Most people have a general idea of what time is like you could go to an elementary school or, you know, to a group of forget that you're not American, a group of like four to eight year olds and ask them, Hey, what do you think time is and they would be able to articulate and describe some aspects and features of what time is.
And this is what makes the problem of time in philosophy incredibly difficult is philosophers call this one of the phrases that they use is called manifest time and manifest time is how time appears to us.
So, strictly from a phenomenological or how we experience it.
Time has certain qualities to it so common phrases that people toss around is that time moves time flows.
Wow, that time time really went by or I can't believe it's February already seem like the year just started.
Like there are all of these basic everyday kind of phrases that we throw around these like what are they called idioms that we use on a regular basis that that have these common characteristics that time has a flow or movement or a pace to it.
And this also seems to be reflected just in basic observations about our life, right, we were born, we had a childhood, we went into young adult, and we make sense of our lives via some sort of temporal narrative, right, we tell stories about ourselves, and about who we are as people, and that narrative assumes that the sounds silly but we got to start silly when we're talking about
philosophy that the past was real, that the past existed, that I was there and that I have transitioned through that past to the present and so I'm telling this building the story right.
Because there's an argument like with hard solipsism that like essentially we don't know that we were just created at right this second and all our memories are part of we're implanted into us right at this second right yeah.
Yeah, yeah, so we got to kind of go like, let's pretend we didn't hear that and let's like so we can at least get the argument yeah yeah.
Global skepticism is an almost impossible philosophical position to, you know, it's fun to talk about but you know you got to get on with day to day life eventually.
But so that's that's what manifest time is now here's the kicker.
The description of manifest time that we have a past that I've been growing older that I have the story that I tell myself about myself and about my past.
That is, according to science, fundamentally wrong from the perspective of physics.
So this is why time is a issue, and why it's a philosophical problem because our perception of what time is is inherently at odds with the scientific descriptions that we have of time.
So what are we supposed to do about that, how are we supposed to make sense of that, and this creates a this creates a domino effect.
Right, because if I can be that wrong about time.
This is where the global skepticism comes in, right because it is one of the most certain things to me that I had a childhood that x, y and z event happen, and that I am here where I am today, like, if I have fundamental reason to doubt that.
That's a pretty confident core belief what else like what else goes out the window with it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, so this is why this question is epistemologically when it comes to knowledge, this is why it's so fundamental, why it's so important.
I have a random question.
I heard a theory that metabolic rate can change a perception of time. Is that true?
Yeah, well, okay.
So I'll talk about this a little later, but some more distinctions that we can draw is between physical time, experienced time or psychological time and biological time.
And what the field of psychology has showed us over like the past 50 years or so is that the your personal experience of time is highly subjective and malleable.
So I don't know if specifically your metabolic rate can change your perception of time, but there's a whole host of things that can change your perception of time.
Whether or not you're experiencing pleasure at that moment can change your perception of time.
Yeah, all sorts of stuff.
I don't know if this was just a meme or if it was actually something that Einstein said, but it was like Einstein was asked about the theory of relativity and he said like something like, you know, compare yourself talking to a beautiful lady versus putting your hand on a hot plate and that's relativity.
Like that Tom goes very moves very differently.
Is that actually something that he said or is that just a meme.
So I've heard that before not only have I heard it before I've read it in books before but I have not been able to track down that quote.
So yeah, I think it's I think it's about 5050 he said something similar.
But it wasn't quite phrase that way but how annoying is it when you can.
It's just random random aside again.
You know the phrase that everyone gets wrong.
The love of money is a readable evil that everyone thinks it's money is the readable evil but it's not.
And everyone attributes it to Jesus.
I was reading some like older older older philosophy way older than Jesus and I've got who it was but it's like they said the love of money is the readable evil before Jesus so I was like wow I was like so did Jesus know about this.
Is this like a fundamental truth that Jesus just got as well or did he know about these philosophers and I haven't been able to find an answer to that online anyway.
I digress continue.
It's okay.
History of science it's not nearly as bad as the history of religion.
There are well it's not bad in the sense that in the history of religion there are so many like misconceptions about it.
That's what I meant not to downplay the history of religion.
But there are so many mis like so many mis quotes to Einstein and Darwin and Newton.
They're just like all over the place.
Yeah.
Okay.
So why does this create a problem in philosophy.
Yes.
So there is a long tradition in philosophy dealing with questions of epistemology.
So in in philosophy epistemology is the study of knowledge.
How do we know what we know what what can we found the confidence of our beliefs and what makes a justified true belief to use good philosophical language right.
And there's a there's a long tradition in philosophy that the most one of the most secure foundational ways to establish true belief is what philosophers would call intuition or what most people would call like common sense right.
So think you know if if a if a you know an obtuse philosopher would were to ask you like prove to me I'm holding a pen right now.
How would you go about proving that.
Well most people would say well.
Here's your here's your pen here's my hand here's the pen I'm holding it there.
Yeah and that works like that's that's how we learn about the world like that's our most basic that's our like first form of knowledge we want to know something we want to figure something out so we use our sense perceptions to to deduce that
thing or to figure out that that things there an object permanence is one of the first types of knowledge that children have right how do I know that my mother's there because there there she is right.
I'm the baby there's there's my mom and I know that my mom feeds me so my mom walks over I know that I'm about to get food right that is like that is like one of the most foundational types of knowing ways of knowing.
And this goes back in the French tradition especially to philosophers like Renee Descartes in the 17th century who argued that true foundational knowledge is found in what he called clear distinct ideas ideas that appear clearly distinctly to our minds I
and was followed up in the 19th and 20th century by other French philosophers like Henry Bergson and when Bergson looked at a subject like time and said okay what do we know about time what Bergson appealed to was our intuition of time our common sense that manifest image of what time is and said okay.
We know that time has certain characteristics like it's extended in duration that we experience lapse of time how do we know that we experience lapse of time you literally experience lapse of time every day.
So that's why this this question is so important and why it's a philosophical problem because intuition in common sense has played such a foundational role in epistemology since the beginning of philosophy and even you know think about like talking to somebody on the street and asking them how they know something right that basic intuition or that basic sense of common sense is probably going to be the first thing they appeal to.
Yeah it's.
Yeah so it's almost something that I something that I pick up on in my journey of life is that often our subjective experiences.
Misleads us into the reality of things an example I've used recently is like let's say when you're a child you get bitten on the face by like a chihuahua and you are now scared of Chihuahuas right you scared of these like.
Well you might you know and as I asked you how many Chihuahua deaths are there per year you might estimate more than zero right.
Which would be an incorrect well actually I don't know they could be Chihuahua deaths but let's just say there isn't the point is is like your subjective experience can skew your results and it's the same that's where you know that's that's where things like racism come in that's where like the news organizations.
Like work of our subjective fears and irrationalities and I often find that my favorite quote to say and my wife has grown to love it as well is feelings aren't facts and and you know if I'm if I'm having an anxiety attack and I feel like the world's falling apart.
World isn't falling apart usually usually the anxiety attack is unjustified most fear is irrational you know so so sometimes I feel subjective subjectiveness actually skews us from deceiving the real world and so yeah I guess maybe so maybe we should go over the theories of time so this substantive versus relational yes.
So let me make a quick comment about what you just said.
And then I'll and I'll talk about this distinction because the the philosopher that I studied his name is Gaston Bachelard and by the way don't I mispronounce.
So I study French philosophy, which means that you say Bachelard or Bacaco crack.
I mispronounce it all the time and speaking about how pretentious philosophers are like when I present at a philosophy conference and I'm sitting in a room of French philosophers and I say Bachelard like I could just see the eyes rolling in the back of the head.
I'm American talking about our philosophy right so don't yeah I do it all the time.
You just look at the comments on my video people are correcting constantly.
So this is one of the fundamental distinctions fundamental philosophical distinctions between Bachelard and his main interlocutor the person that he's arguing with Henry Bergson.
So Bergson's argument is that knowledge is founded and comes from intuition that knowledge is founded and comes from common sense.
And so when Bergson talks about time he's talking he'll say that the fundamental characteristic of time is duration that time is is measuring a set length right and that's its most basic feature.
Bachelard disagrees with that, which sounds kind of like how could you disagree with that like that seems kind of like basic right because of intuition.
But Bachelard argues that in Bachelard is writes a lot about scientific epistemology how science comes to know and understand the truth in Bachelard says that science actually comes to truth via opposing intuition.
And via getting over and combating the certain biases that we have about the world and our most basic fundamental bias is that reality is as it appears to me that I want to know the truth.
I just look at it there it is and that's reality.
But Bachelard says well on a superficial level yes like observation is a critical component to science.
But oftentimes in science things aren't quite as they appear to be right just look at you know going Bachelard writes a lot about like early chemistry.
Just look at early chemistry and early biology one of the fundamental breakthroughs is the realization that the surface level appearance of the world is just that surface level that there's all these like micro organisms and stuff at the bottom of everything that we have no clue existed.
And that scientific epistemology that scientific knowledge builds itself up by combating those biases and by going against those biases.
So yeah I just wanted to reiterate what what you just said there.
Yeah well Baka Karat looks like this for anyone that Bachelard looks like this this is this is what he looks like and the man looks wise let me just say that someone someone has a question Aaron has a question great to see Aaron is the recognition of time or creation of time and evolutionary phenomenon example if someone else in the universe there are beings with equal or greater intelligence than us do they have time.
And that spin off question which is in the same vein which is from Lauren who I talked to last night compiling some notes for this is do other species have different biological systems of perceived time.
So I've always I've always wondered like this was strange but does a fly feel like it's been alive for two days or does it feel like it's been alive for much longer.
Yeah so this goes back.
Let me start off by saying that I have no idea that that's actually that would actually be like a testable psychological experiment.
Yeah like you could actually you could actually work that out.
I will say that I will say this so yeah please take what I say here with the with the hefty grain of salt because again not a scientist.
I will say that human beings depending upon geographical location have different experiences of time so in there's this phrase of island time.
Yeah I suspect to say that yeah I've experienced that when we're late for the airport at Vanuatu because a taxi driver just got there whenever he felt like it.
Yeah yeah so that is a real thing.
Yeah and what's happening there is that different people depending upon their social status where they're at what they're doing different people experience time in different ways.
Now do other species experience time again that's yeah I'm not I'm not touching that.
Well I think the problem that we don't have the answer is we've got a message from Digital Hammurabi who said look at these two jokers on screen who on earth would listen to anything these atheists have to say no spirit of God no truth.
Well thank you Digital Hammurabi he always comes in to tell us.
Yeah he's a good friend he's a good friend of mine wonderful person and speaking of a scholar yeah two scholars.
I think you can I think Josh can only be mean ironically because he's just so kindly the rest he is such a nice person yeah.
It's like have you seen that episode of Seinfeld where Elaine tries to get Jerry Seinfeld to be angry and he just can't be angry and then eventually he snaps it.
I feel like doing that with Dr. Josh I was like get him actually talk about slavery and say that tell me why slavery is wrong and then you get him.
Understandably so I mean if there's one thing you should be getting upset about yeah for sure argue with trying to convince people why slavery of all.
Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah okay yeah you want me to talk about the yeah distinction yeah let's do the distinction yes so.
So that there's been two major theories of time that have existed since philosophy has existed this goes in the Greek tradition this goes all the way back to Plato and Aristotle you even see debates about the nature of time in like ancient Indian philosophy of the goop to empire like the fourth and since.
5th century BCE Confucius famously didn't like metaphysical questions so it you know kind of skirted Confucius was funny because he said that he would ask his one of his followers asked him what happened after after we died and Confucius response was what you haven't figured out how to live so are you concerned with what happens after you die.
Anyway I say all that to say like most peoples around the world thought about this question of time.
You know the ancient Maya has developed this very elaborate and ornate cosmology that sent around this idea of cyclical time.
It's everywhere now you have two two different views that have emerged one is this idea of substantive time substantive time and relational time.
So let me explain what that means and I'm sorry as soon as I soon as some guy with the philosophy background starts throwing around definitions people just yeah yeah.
So substantive time substantive time is is actually pretty straightforward substantive time blah blah blah substantive time is the idea that time has substance to it has a substance to it and in philosophy the substance of a thing is that things primary characteristics.
Okay so Aristotle developed this idea of substance and said that different things have different substances so the substance of a human is to be like animated to be alive right we have this animating substance evident within all of us.
Substance with respect to time you we've already talked about some of these characteristics the substance of time might be that.
The most basic of which would be let time has a direction.
We're moving from the past to the future.
That's a that's an inherent quality or substance of time so substantive theories argue that time has certain basic fundamental features to it.
There are different types of substance theories the most popular of which is called a theory of time a the the letter a a theory of time and what a theory of time states is that the different tenses past present and future are fundamental qualities.
I keep doing this because for me when I think I think in pictures.
So when I think of time as a substance I think of the the time bar right the flow of time.
So a theory is a substantive view of time because according to a theory past present and future are real fundamental features of what time itself is.
In other words you take away humanity from the picture the past still exist.
The present moment would still exist and the future would come to exist.
Yep.
I'm following.
Does that make sense.
Yeah.
Yeah.
All right.
There's not like it's it's like it exists but like in so much so that it's not it's not based purely on.
Maybe I don't get it.
It's not based purely on human understanding the human like experience.
Right.
So it exists when I talk about existence in the ontological sense it exists independently of humans.
I say that to distinguish it from the relational theory of time which I'll get to here in a second and what does it mean for time to exist.
It exists in the sense that time tenses past present and future are real features of reality.
There really was a past.
There really is a present the moment that we're all currently experiencing right now is real is tangible and there well there are different views about this and there really is or at least there could be a future.
Mm hmm.
Now so a theory is the the two big theories substantive view of time relational view of time under the substantive view of time we have a theory under a theory you have about six different positions which I won't go into but.
Yeah.
A bunch of different offshoots.
The six layers of hell or whatever.
It goes all the way.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think it's like nine or I can't get it wrong anyway.
Keep going.
No.
So the easiest way to think of this would be that some a theorist believe that a form of what's called present present presentism which is that only the present moment is real.
Mm hmm.
That the past isn't real that the future isn't real that only now is real other.
Like just like the Deepak Chopra kind of philosophy.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yes.
Other a theorist would support a position called the the growing block theory.
The easiest way to imagine this.
Most of the a theorist who support this take a very particular view of Big Bang theory which says that the universe began at a particular point in time and has been has since been expanding outwards.
The growing block theory would say that in that universe the past is real and the present moment is real.
But the future doesn't exist yet.
Okay.
Because the past we can observe.
Right.
We can look it through a telescope and see the past.
It's there.
It happened.
That's it.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So and then you also have something called the moving spotlight theory which is a combination of A and B theory.
But I think we're good on anything.
Yeah.
And this is where it gets complicated and messy.
So I said at the beginning of this podcast episode podcast YouTube podcast.
Yeah.
I said at the beginning that most physicists most and I even got to be careful with this a large portion of 21st century physics lends itself best to be theory not to a theory.
But that is not to say that there you can't go look up a physicist right now who supports a version of a theory because they exist.
I just I just read a book Richard Mueller who argues for a version of a theory.
He's a physicist.
Okay.
So this isn't a this isn't a settled debate.
I just want to paraphrase that.
It's prickly.
Yes.
Okay.
So what is what is B theory then?
Absolutely.
So B theory.
So you have the substantive view of time and you have the relational view of time B theory is a relationist view of time.
It's relationist in the sense that tense past present and future only exist in relation to observers.
Okay.
Okay.
Right.
Not only that but you have extreme relationist position which says that my past is my past but not necessarily might not necessarily be your past David.
And so this is a completely relational relative you have the on the one end of the extreme the completely relativist view of time, which is that all a sense of time is not only relational to the
observer but that every observer has their own sense in relation of time.
So it's almost completely to use your language almost completely socially constructed.
And conventional.
Interesting.
And then somebody in the chat slam or in brought up eternalism.
So B theory of time holds that there is no privilege tense past present and future are all on the same level, so to speak, because in the fundamental equations of relativity and in the fundamental equations of quantum mechanics, there really is no time doesn't doesn't factor into it.
So there's no preference given and in some cases like in relativity that could actually be exchangeable.
That it doesn't matter.
And that when we talk in relativity when we talk about a time we're talking about a particular time this specific instance that happened at that specific point.
And that when we're talking about past we're talking about past in relation to that point.
Right.
Or future in relation to that point.
So that's why it's called relationalism, because those tenses past present and future are relation are relational to certain events to those particular events.
Okay.
Hopefully that made sense.
That makes sense.
So was Einstein a B theorist?
Here's where it gets even more complicated.
He was, believe it or not, it depends on what period of time with Einstein you're talking about, because he was actually both.
Okay.
He kind of fluctuated.
When he first developed his theory of relativity so Einstein writes his first paper on relativity the electrodynamics of moving bodies in 1905 and then starts to deliver a series of lectures at some German universities in 1915 1920 by the by the 1920s Einstein is a is firmly within the B theory camp.
Now this is completely anachronistic historically a theory B theory.
Einstein wasn't familiar with that.
But he would have been a B theorist.
He starts to go over a little bit into a theory and this is where it gets well outside of my comfort zone.
When he accepts the idea of the space time manifold so in in general relativity space and time become combined into one thing.
And once you start to talk about things in philosophy you start to talk about substance that thing has a substance to it.
And once you say that an aspect of space time has a has a thing this to it has a substance or like space time could be curved, for example, so it has attributes and has qualities that would exist if we didn't exist.
And so then you start to get into like this hybrid a slash B theory that Einstein kind of supported later in life.
So that's why I say it's it's prickly.
It's complicated because even with a single scientist you're going to get some some backs back and forth.
So before you mentioned that we can observe the past because we can see through telescope so yeah right now we're actually like if you were actually sitting in front of me.
Technically you I would be viewing the past because of how long it takes for the light to not like I wouldn't be able to perceive it but I could you know the time it takes the life to come from you to reach my eyes is there's a gap of time there so I'm technically viewing the past.
But a better example is you know we can see galaxies 13.8 billion light years away.
And that's like right at the start of the the start of the universe right.
So it's right like when we see them how they were back then it gets taken that long for the light to travel to us.
But someone asked the question Aaron asked the question if scientists one day build a telescope that can look into the future how would that affect B theory.
Oh man and great great question Aaron this is exactly what I wanted we needed we needed something this is this is a Joe Rogan s question not that's not insulting by the way to keep keep this the scientific academic stuff fun so great question.
No that's a that's an absolutely fantastic question.
I got to think of how to how I want to approach this.
So with Einstein in relativity.
A lot hinges in Einstein's description of relativity on the speed of light.
Einstein uses the speed of light to kind of found his physical definitions his operational definitions of time you can see this.
Actually I'm signed by the way just complete side note and please don't let me lose track of that question because it's a great question I'm signed by the way extremely readable.
I would highly recommend even his early scientific articles aren't aren't math heavy and Einstein had a really awesome knack for explaining things in deceptively simple ways.
Which made his appeal like why so there's a wonderful book that he wrote.
It's actually based off a series of lectures it's called the meaning of relativity.
These are a series of lectures that he actually gave at American University explaining some of the general principles of relativity.
Also by the way check out his on the electric dynamics and moving body is the first first paper that he wrote about relativity like actually pretty readable even for a lay person for a non scientist which is what I am.
It's digestible it's understandable.
Okay, so back to the question.
Just so just so everyone knows I've already got a link in the description if you purchase that you'll help the channel grow.
So there you go link in the description link in the comments keep going.
Okay, so it could build a telescope that can look into the quote future how that affect the theory.
Alright, so our ability to look into the past is directly correlated with and related to the speed of light and the speed of light actually plays a fundamental role in Einstein's theory of relativity, because the speed of light provides a constant reference point to develop measures of time.
If there wasn't a speed of light, Einstein's theory falls apart.
If there wasn't a constant speed to the speed of light I should say Einstein's theory would fall apart because it provides a physical basis for his understanding of time that was crucial to him, especially early on before other experimental empirical data started to come in, like in the 1920s in the 1930s.
So, what Einstein says is that very loosely speaking, time moves at the speed of light, so the further the distance, the further light has to travel the potentially the larger time dilation can take place.
Which is why when we look into a telescope at distant objects, why those objects appear to be in the past, it's not that they're in the past.
This is this is why language is super important.
Because in the past, it's not that they're in the past.
This is this is why language is super important.
Because in the past implies that you have this box that the past and that objects in that box.
What's happening there, the reason why it appears to us to be in the past is because that light coming back, and with that light is the information about that object.
So it's actually the light that is giving us the information about that object.
If you were to instantaneously snap yourself like the Goku instant transmission not to show my anime cards here, right, if you were to instantaneously transport yourself to that object, it wouldn't appear how it just appeared to you through the telescope.
So, I don't, and again, not, not, not a scientist.
I don't think that that theoretical there that was proposed could you look into the future build a telescope to look into the future.
I don't think that would happen.
Because, again, we're talking about light travel and we're talking about the information that's being quote unquote carried with the light.
And in terms of relativity, you can look into the past, right, but you the speed of light.
Since it's constant, it can't go faster than itself. You wouldn't be able to see light from the future.
Right. Okay. Okay. Okay.
Now, that's a very, that's a philosopher's answer to a very scientific question.
Okay, I'm going to throw some of the questions that we have here.
We can, we can go back to the historical developments, but I think I'm going to just throw some random, or maybe this, this lecture has more to do.
Maybe it's part of the historical developments, but when I was a kid, my dad told me, try to explain to me the concepts of relativity, I think it was relativity or time, time.
And so he was like, imagine you're on a train. And you're, this is different to the, your example, I think that imagine you're on a train and you're shooting backwards at the speed of light and you're looking at a clock face.
You know, that clock face is, is, you know, would stay still, right? Because the time from your perception at the time is staying still because the light can't reach your face.
The clock would still be moving, but the time would not the, the, the light from the clock would not reach your face in time. Right. Is that right?
In time. Oh my gosh. I sound so dumb. Baby brain is really like not having enough sleep is a real thing. My, oh crap. Do you get what I'm saying? So if you're, if you're in, yeah, yeah, no, I think, I think if I follow it correctly, I think that that would be correct.
So what causes, what causes time dilation, what causes fluctuations in time, or what a call, what causes objects really far out in space to appear in the past is the direct result of light.
So if you, if you take that analogy that you just gave, if I understand it correctly, so me, the observer, I'm looking at a clock out in the distance.
So now you're looking at the clock, I guess in the same cart as you.
Okay.
And you're shooting backwards at the speed of light.
But the, and looking at the clock. So if you're, if you're going back, you know, just at regular speed, you'll see the clock ticking at the same speed.
If you're going back at the speed of light, the clock should stay still because the light is traveling towards your face.
But here's the thing, and this is, you know, pretending that we could create such a device, which is impossible.
But, but if we were to, if we were to do that, what would happen if we went faster than the speed of light, would the clock start going backwards?
That's the question that, yes, it's a really good question.
And this is, it's thought experiments like this, that made people in the mid early 1915s and 1920s lose their frickin minds.
Like, they just could not.
And I don't know if I still can understand.
Because Einstein, an important thing to remember is that in these thought experiments, Einstein's talking theoretically.
And most of this is based off of mathematical calculations.
And so when he talks about clocks, he's talking about the theoretical clock.
Right, right.
He's not talking about an actual physical clock, and we're not, we're talking like theoretically what would happen if you would approach the speed of light.
Because as you said, that's physically impossible.
So like, as long as we keep it abstract, and as long as we stay theoretically, I don't have, I don't, I can't see a problem now.
Physicist might be able to see a problem with the thought experiment.
But like with the physical clock itself start moving backward, that's when we're out of my ability to answer questions.
Do you have Lauren, Lauren Klauss-Krauss's phone number? Just give him a buzz real quick.
Yeah, that'd be nice.
We have, we have, I think a special guest in the chat is this the Maya that you're going on the channel for this.
Yeah, yeah, hey Maya.
So Maya is here in the chat. Thank you for popping in.
So you're going on to her channel this week, is it?
Sunday, Sunday two o'clock.
Awesome.
Make sure you go over, subscribe to Maya's channel.
And also, may as well be a good time to make sure people go subscribe to your channel.
Your channel is fantastic.
It deep dives into some really, really interesting content.
And there was, you can see I watched a few of your videos on this channel.
But where is the one that I was watching last night?
It was a fantastic, these are your lives.
One of your, the most fantastic interviews you've done was that I really appreciate was Virtue Ethics and Christianity with Michael Jones.
Everyone gives Michael Jones, a lot of atheists give Michael Jones a bad rap.
Fuck that noise.
Michael Jones is a badass dude.
He's so kind and friendly if you treat him that way as well.
So I really like Michael, we're good friends.
And that's a really great episode.
So many good episodes on here.
I've been on the channel a few times.
So go subscribe to Michael as well and subscribe to Maya.
Yeah, yeah.
IP Rocks, I agree.
He's a cool guy as far as, what do I say?
I say he's the most intellectually honest as an apologist can be, I think.
So I really like Michael.
He's a wonderful person to talk to, very kind to me at least.
And I interviewed people from different faith backgrounds.
So I recently interviewed Carlson from the Midnight Mormons.
I've interviewed people from Hindu backgrounds.
I'm trying to find a Muslim scholar to interview, but religion in the history of religion is a kind of a pet side project of mine.
And it's super well balanced, interviews really respectful, nice.
It's cool, I like it.
I had it on last night, I had a baby atlas and I had it on last night watching it while feeding him a bottle.
Well you're actually a big inspiration for that David.
You are, let me do it on you for a little bit.
One of my favorite interviewers out there, easy.
Wow, thank you.
So the breadth of people that you interviewed, like from the different backgrounds and the different subject matters, I think speaks to your ability as an interviewer.
So yeah.
Thank you.
I'm trying very hard.
I'm even considering going to a speech person so I can stop mumbling so much and say bokakak krakk-okak.
Anyway, all right, thank you for the compliments.
Everyone make sure you go subscribe to Maya, go subscribe to Michael Granado.
So back to the development of time.
So where should we go from here, Michael?
Yeah, let's maybe do a little bit of history
since we've been doing all this philosophical jargon.
Let's start early 20th century.
So like I said before, discussions and talks
and debates about time go all the way back.
Some of the earliest philosophical schools that we have
is they were talking and debating about time
because it's such a basic feature of our reality.
Where this gets complicated is with science.
The first full scientific treatment of time
comes from Isaac Newton in Newton's principle of mathematics,
in which Newton argued that space and time
are absolutes that they are absolute fundamental features
of the universe.
And Newton would take that a step further
and say absolute fundamental features of God,
but different story for a different day.
We talked about this the last time I was on here.
So we can reference that.
Now, for most of the 17th and 18th century,
people accepted Newton's accounts of physics
because Newton was an absolute genius.
And the system of physics that he developed
is theory of gravity, especially dominated science
for 200 years easy.
It wasn't until the 19th century
that people started to cast some questions
and have some doubts about the Newtonian picture of the universe.
This came in a bunch of different forms.
One of the biggest ways that people started questioning Newton
was actually in the form of debates and discussions
about light itself.
So Newton was the first person to develop a theory of optics,
why things have colors.
They wrote an entire book on it called Optics.
Thomas Young, who was a British scientist
in the 19th century, don't quote me on that,
was the first person to start to provide experiments
with light that started to diverge from Newton's account.
And the biggest way that Young's description of light diverged
is that Young argued, Newton argued that light was a particle,
that the light we see are these little tiny particles
coming from the source that's hitting our eyes
and our brains are interpreting what they're saying.
He called them corpuscles.
It's just an ancient way of saying particles.
Thomas Young argued that light actually behaved
and moved in waveforms.
So Young was the first to develop this double slit experiment,
which creates patterns, wave-like patterns
that we can observe through light.
In addition to Young, you have the development
of non-Euclidean geometry in the 19th century.
So Euclidean geometry was pretty straightforward
in the sense that people believed that mathematics
corresponded to reality.
Yeah, this is the double slit experiment.
Can you explain what's going on here?
I can try.
So this is the basic one devised by Young.
Now Young didn't have an electric light, it was like a candle,
but same basic idea.
So you have the light source that's, of course,
emitting the light and then you have the first panel
which has these slits in it.
The light passes through those slits
and what you observe in that darker panel
is an interference pattern
and an interference pattern for physicists.
I won't be able to explain this part.
An interference pattern shows wave-like function
the light particles are dispersed
in wave-like patterns.
So the reason why this is important
is because if light was a particle
like Newton had suggested,
you shouldn't have all those different slits
that appear, slits of light.
You should just have one of those.
Because if light was one thing, particles move in one direction.
And you can predict the motion of that particle
in the same way,
let's expand it up for a second.
In the same way that you can track and predict the motion of a car
that's driving down a highway,
you ought to be able to do the same thing with the pattern.
There's one place that that car is going
and there's one expected outcome
or location that that car is going.
But with light, you observe something different.
So even, and what I know,
I think about this and correct me if I'm wrong,
is we can now measure it obviously with a single photon.
So one photon of light can come through
and it can land on this board.
And if you cover one of the slits,
it still acts as if there is that interference pattern
as if there was too, as if.
So yeah, you can fire one photon, one photon,
one photon, one photon, one photon,
and then you still get the same wave,
which means that this,
that light acts as a wave as well as a particle.
So it's like a bit of both.
Yeah, so that's what we come to understand
in the 20th century.
So that's my Big Bang Theory TV show analysis of it, yeah.
Yeah, so we started to get these questions
in the 19th century with discoveries about light
and new developments of new mathematical systems,
which leads us to the 20th century.
And in the 20th century is when Einstein's the one
that kicks all this off.
It's actually pretty rare in the history of science
for a single individual to make
like such a monument as breakthrough.
It's almost always done as a team
or by a group of people,
but Einstein and Newton respectively
developed the stereotypical soul geniuses, right?
And Einstein starts to develop this idea
based off of a couple of big things,
the new developments that had taken place about light,
but also a very, very important experiment
which was done in the late 19th century
was called the Mitchelson-Morley experiment.
And what the Mitchelson-Morley experiment
was probably one of the most famous scientific failures.
So the big question about light is how does light move?
So you have these conversations about lights of particle,
lights of wave, what is it, right?
The more fundamental question is
what does light move through?
So we have light waves,
and the idea was that we have sound waves.
Well, sound moves through the medium of air.
That's how like hearing works, right?
And again, not my area,
but the sound comes to us, hits our eardrums,
it vibrates, and then we hear what we hear, right?
And so the thought process was,
well, a similar mechanism ought to be happening with light.
And that mechanism, that medium that was proposed,
going back to Newton, was this thing called the ether.
Newton said that there is this substance called the ether
which pervaded all of space,
and that the ether was the mechanism through which light moved.
So if light is the car, the ether is the highway.
So use an analogy.
Well, the Mitchelson-Morley experiment was an attempt to detect,
it assumed that the ether existed,
and it was an attempt to detect whether or not the earth moving through space
would experience ether drag.
And this is just as bad as my description about philosophy, I'm sorry.
So you have space and you have the earth rotating around the sun, right?
Well, the thought process was if the ether exists,
then the ether would be causing some pushback on the motion of the earth,
in the same way that a car going down the highway
is going to get some resistance and some drag from the wind.
So the Mitchelson-Morley experiment was an attempt to measure the ether drag,
the effect that the ether was having on the earth to learn more about the ether.
The results of the Mitchelson-Morley experiment were no.
There were no observable effects.
And this caused people to fundamentally doubt whether or not the ether was a thing.
So Einstein comes along.
He reads this experiment and he's kind of taken aback by it
because everybody assumed that ether existed.
And everybody assumed that ether would have some sort of effect on light, especially.
I've had some flat earthers argue with me that the ether still does exist.
So I guess they don't even know what the ether is
because flat earthers told me that's actually happening.
That's funny.
For some reason doesn't surprise me that people still think that.
Because it was a big deal at the time.
It was over 100 years ago, but it's still dumbfounded people.
That's like us people doing test on gravity and realizing that gravity is not really a thing.
That was a big deal for people.
Well, that's what flat earthers also thinks.
Maybe the flat earthers are right after all.
I was about to say, I actually came on this podcast to say that the earth is in fact number three.
Imagine you just drop that like I am a flat earther, guys.
Oh my gosh.
So this created a sort of upheaval in turn of the century physics.
Turn of the 20th century physics.
Like everybody was talking about this.
Such a big problem.
Well, Einstein is thinking about the results of the Mitcherson-Morley experiment.
He's thinking about light and the experiments that were done with light.
And because Einstein was a gigantic nerd, he's also thinking about trains and clocks.
And so he's putting together these thoughts experiments about the train leaving one station.
And to be fair, like this was a super practical concern.
Time zones, as you all know, or you may know, didn't really come along till a little bit later.
I don't know exactly when, so I'll quote me on that.
But international travel started to become more and more popular and accessible come the 20th century.
So by the early 20th century, you know, people are flying, not flying yet, not yet.
People are taking boats and trains from one from France to Germany and from Germany to Italy.
And they're taking boats from the UK to America.
Well, now all of a sudden this question of time is not just a theoretical question.
What happens when I take my clock from the UK, hop on a boat and sail all the way to the Americas?
Why is my clock different from the clock at the time square now?
So Einstein's thinking about all of this and he takes those questions about trains and clocks and light and applies it to light and he finds some troubling results.
The troubling result is that some of the basic concepts that we had about time,
specifically concepts about simultaneity, events happening at the same time, that simultaneity was no longer an absolute.
I have an image to pop up.
Yes, that's it.
Good.
Yes.
So the both Einstein and Heisenberg will call into question certain basic assumptions that people had held to be true.
The question that Einstein is going to call into question is this idea of whether or not something can happen at the same time to two observers.
And Einstein is going to say depending upon the speed of one of the observers, simultaneous, there's no absolute simultaneity.
Because there's no absolute time.
And so we have a slow unraveling of the entire Newtonian worldview.
So this is the this is a picture of the train experiment.
So you have a stationary observer who's on the train platform watching the train go down the tracks, and you have another observer on the train.
And you have the events being a lightning strike that happen for the stationary person.
Why happen quote at the same time.
Now the question that Einstein raises is, will those lightning strikes appear to happen at the same time for both observers.
The guy on the train and why and Einstein's answer to that question is no.
It would be perceivably no or would just be no like it would be perceivably no really that the guy on the train would experience the lightning strike at a before he experienced the lightning strike at B.
Interesting because of his movement right because of the movement yes interesting interesting yeah.
That question that you just had is the question that literally every single philosopher and scientists to read Einstein's paper, they're going to say like, whoa whoa whoa whoa.
Hold up a second. Yeah, hold up a second.
So the first question they're going to raise is like well.
How was this possible.
But they're going to get more specific and say like, physically, how is this possible.
Like, let's assume that Einstein's right there's this, there's this debate that erupts in a conference that happened in Paris in 1911.
And there's this French philosopher named Lamingston, who stands up and says, like, who basically does like the stereotypical like argument and philosopher thing and says, Hey, listen, by the way, there's no absolute sense of time anymore.
There's no absolute sense of simultaneity.
We all have different times your times different from nine time and I can prove it using Einstein and people like, like verbal arguments like people were standing up like shouting at each other and arguing with each other was great.
Wow.
And the question is over, whether or not Einstein's whether or not this thought experiment applies to biological time.
So if we were to physically carry out this experiment, their question was the same as your question, would that person physically biologically experienced time differently and Einstein will double down and say yes, they would.
Wow, that's interesting.
And of course, that, like, what is that, how do we wrap our heads around that right that's the question.
I don't know if this is a good time to talk about the twin paradox and straight into another thought experiment.
It's my understanding that the twin paradox, like, is has actually happened with like astronauts to spend time in space.
Yeah, very slightly, not noticeably, but not perceivable, but it's accurately.
So can you explain the twin paradox for us.
So really simply, the twin paradox is you take two identical twins, you put one in a rocket ship.
Well, before you do that, you give them both clocks, you sync their clocks together start the clocks.
You put one in the rocket ship, send them out in the space, have the ship have the twin in the rocket ship approach the speed of light, come back to earth, there we go.
And when the twin comes back to earth, what will they see what will they encounter that the person who stayed on earth would have grown significantly older, while the twin in the rocket ship would have remained basically the same age.
So, if you could literally like shoot out of the speed of light for like, you know, six months you come back and, and, and that your twin would be 10 years older than you, or something like that, right.
Exactly.
And this raises further questions about the difference between physical time and biological time.
Okay.
And what Einstein will say, even though Einstein is not a biologist, and even though none of these experiments had been carried out wasn't until recently that we did, we actually did the twin paradox experiment.
What Einstein will say he'll be committed to this idea that biological time will have to resemble physical time because there's no different, they're the same thing.
But the difference would be that biological time is just a measure of time that's limited to my body, right, I have my own biological clock in the form of my physical body.
And so, the twin paradox will raise some, this raises the question of time travel, which is what I get asked about a lot.
And my answer to this question of time travel is that time travel in relativity theory, I can't speak for wormholes and quantum mechanic time travel like what we just saw with like ant man and stuff like that.
We're not talking about that.
Time travel and relativity theory is actually like, not very sexy, not as sexy as the movie time travel, because Einstein's theory of relativity assumes B theory of time.
Time is relational to the observer.
So if we have two observers, time is relational to the movement of each person.
So time travel is only possible for one of them.
And it's only possible in relation to that other observer.
You don't travel through time, in this sense, in the same way that the car travels down the road, you can go forward and backward.
That sort of travels not possible.
What is possible in the twin paradox, what the twin paradox shows us is that one twin will biologically age while the other does not in relation to each other.
So, okay, so a couple of things.
One, Anazia, I hope you heard how I say your name, said, but how, which is a great question.
Exactly.
And secondly, SlamRN keeps talking about the Kelly twins.
Now, when I said it's been tested, I literally thought it was like, hypothetically tested as in like, they've sent a twin to, okay, can you tell me a little bit about the Kelly twins then?
I don't really know anything about this.
What I can say is that this was, so the Kelly twins are astronauts, or at least one of them was an astronaut, identical twins.
And they physically tested this by literally carrying out the one twin, they both were giving clocks, those clocks were synced.
One of the twins spent time on the International Space Station, and when they came down, we're talking fractions of a second here.
The twin who was on the space, Jason's clock was a little slower than the other twins.
Yeah, there we go.
Yeah, because they spent, it was like, because in order for it to work, you have to be going at like incredibly fast speeds.
And so, you know, on the space station, you're going at fast speeds and no one near is fast enough, but he spent like six months or something up there, right?
Right.
Yeah.
And there was a slight time difference.
We can take that example and amplify the speed of the person in space and amplify the amount of time that they spend in space, the greater the time gap gets is what that means.
So yeah, we actually empirically verify this, which is mind blowing.
Absolutely mind blowing.
Yeah, yeah, that's, that's crazy.
That's so crazy.
Wow.
Yeah, so to Anna Zia's question, how
So this is the fun part where I get to say, I don't know.
It's mind blowing.
I mean, I'm right there with you.
I've been, I've been reading about Einstein and I've been reading about all the multifaceted philosophical implications of the twin paradox and the train experience.
I've been doing this for the past six years and I'm still trying to still trying to wrap my head around it.
That's a great question.
Slammar and also points out that it's, it changes depending on where, like how, how heavy the gravity, how heavy.
My gosh.
How intense the gravity is.
For example, if you could like somehow sit on the, on the cusp of a black hole time does some really weird things.
Can you explain a little bit about that?
No, I can't.
I was right at the edge of my raising.
I was like, I'll throw on the ball and you can catch it.
But none of us know you're right.
You're right.
Again, black holes.
I don't think then come around and weren't theorized until like the 60s and 70s.
I think is when Hawking first released his equations and my, my knowledge of the history of science stops at the 40s.
So that's where I cut it off.
The gravity is pretty heavy and I promise I'm not this dumb.
I just, I just really tired.
But I'm trying.
I'm trying.
So how does this.
So maybe we should maybe we could wrap up the historical developments by just talking about the Heisenberg uncertainty principle.
Yeah.
Well, let's just cover all the controversial stuff. No.
Um, this is this is probably this is without a doubt one of those areas that I think we might have Jesus and the the the history people.
History of religion people be here in terms of misquoting and misunderstanding.
There's so much so much.
Woohoo is the is the right word surrounding the Heisenberg uncertainty principle.
But so 20th century physics is defined by two two major developments first and foremost is relatively theory without a doubt, which is what I already talked about developed by Albert Einstein.
1905 is the first paper 1920 is the first lectures that's delivered.
By 1922 we have our first empirical evidence confirming relativity theory.
Also starting in the 1920s this goes back little prior to this in the 19th century with conversations about atoms and subatomic particles, especially with the invention and development of the microscopes.
20th century is along with the development of relativity you have the development of at the time it was called micro physics.
What today we call quantum mechanics, which is the physics of really really small stuff, which is what that translates to.
So Heisenberg publishes his paper in 1925.
What Einstein does to time and simultaneity Einstein fundamentally calls into question the understanding of our understanding of simultaneity with his paper.
Heisenberg will do the same thing with location and place.
So again, one of our most basic intuitions about reality is that the sound stupid to say things have locations.
Things are located in space, right?
Yeah, the pen is located right here.
Well, it's actually not so silly and stupid because as it turns out,
Heisenberg will take that definition and understanding location and we just throw it out the window.
So Heisenberg's uncertainty principle deals with the location of the electron around the nucleus of an atom.
And this gets complicated and this all of all of what I'm telling you now is is from a book that Bachelard wrote on Heisenberg uncertainty principle.
It's called the concept of space and physics currently untranslated.
I'm trying to get it published so any publishers out there.
So he takes this idea and he says that.
So Heisenberg takes this idea of the location of the electron at an everyday level.
This is pretty straightforward, right?
Think back to your high school physics class.
If you were tracking the movement of a car, let's say, and I gave you the speed of the car and the direction the car is going and I pinpointed where the car is currently located on the map.
You would be able to tell me where that car would be in an hour or two hours.
It's pretty straightforward, right?
Again, I failed high school.
I'd giggle it.
But this is what our current GPS satellite positions are based off of, right?
They could do it like in an instant.
You'll arrive at your destination an hour and 30 minutes, right?
That is fundamentally impossible to do at a quantum level.
So Heisenberg's uncertainty principle says that you can track the speed of an electron.
Or you could track the position of the electron.
But you can't track both.
Well, you can try to.
It's just your as many times as you do the experiment.
That's how many results you're going to get different results.
Whoa.
Yeah.
So.
Bachelard says that Heisenberg complexifies our understanding of location.
Yeah.
He makes complicated this very simple idea that object A is located here and says.
At a big level, yes, but at a quantum level.
We can't exactly say that.
You could say one, but not the other.
Right?
There's actually an equation for it that I won't attempt to recite.
Well, this has to do with a couple of reasons.
One of which is not super sexy.
The other ones are a little bit sexier.
The first reason it has to do with is limitations in our technology because quantum objects are so small.
Electrons can are going to be physically affected by photons.
So the microscope in the act of observing the location of the electron.
My left fist is the electron as the electrons moving that photons going to come in and disrupt it.
Knock it out of place.
And so this is where this idea of the act of observation affects the result.
Here's the misunderstanding.
It's not consciousness that's affecting the result of the experiment.
It's the physical photons from the light that's impacting the experiment.
So it's not this like our consciousness affects reality.
It's our site that's affected.
It's the photons from our site that's affecting the reality.
That makes sense.
I'll rewatch this stream when it's posted because I'm right on the cusp of following along.
But it goes even deeper than that.
So on the one hand, we have this measurement problem.
Okay, so the question is going to be, well, what if we improve our tools?
What if we get better microscopes?
We would be able to fix the measurement problem and Heisenberg still says no.
That even with the best microscopes that we're able to develop that there is a fundamental uncertainty at the quantum level.
In the results that we're going to get.
So here's the here's the here's Bosch lords interpretation of that.
Here's the kicker.
Here's the upshot of all of this.
And this is where we're going to get.
We're going to move away from the science and get a little bit more philosophical.
So the big problem that Bosch lard is trying to figure out is.
Why is our physical descriptions of time in physics?
Why are they so different from our everyday experience of time?
That's the original problem that we started with, right?
Bosch lard's answer to that question.
Is that they're actually not all that different.
And although our surface level appearance of time seems to us to conflict with physics.
The more we rational rationally understand and analyze it, the more we realize that that it's physics all the way down.
So high Bosch lard takes Heisenberg's uncertainty principle and says that the experience of time is the same as the experience of the electron.
And that when we understand quantum objects and quantum particles, we have to do so.
I'm going to introduce another mathematical term topologically.
So we can understand the probability distribution of the electron, but we can't isolate and study the electron in and of itself.
It's not going to give us much information if we do that, and it's not going to lead us to any much useful information if we do that.
So instead we have to to use Bosch lard's words, analyze it from the top down topologically.
Then once we do this, we can get an understanding of how quantum particles work in total as a whole, as opposed to individually.
Bosch lard says that time as we experience it works analogously to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle in that we experience time in these instantaneous moments.
We have these moments of consciousness in which we consciously act in time.
But Bosch lard says it doesn't do us any good and he's arguing against Bergson here, but he says it doesn't do us any good to isolate those moments to try to figure out, okay, well, what is the quality of time in that particular moment or what is the fundamental aspect of time that remains the same.
Instead what we have to do is interpret the flow or movement of our life as a whole in the same way that we interpret musically a song.
So songs can be broken down into individual notes.
The ABC, I don't know anything about music, but we don't hear when we listen to music, we don't hear like one note, another note, another note, another note.
We hear it as a as a whole.
That's a great analogy.
Yeah, that's a great analogy.
I can't take any credit for it, but it's all Bosch lard.
Yeah.
So we see it as a as a whole.
Right.
And so this is how we this is Bosch lard says how we have to approach the time of our lives and why this is important is because this is how to use a psychological term.
This is how narrative meaning works in our lives.
Narrative meaning is the story that we tell ourselves about ourselves.
So when we look at narrative meaning we're not approaching it from a particular moment.
We're approaching it topologically from a whole.
And this is important because individual moments think about, I was going to say think about the most traumatic thing that ever happened you don't think about that.
Right.
Individual moments for Bosch lard. The reason why this analogy is important is because they're they're flexible.
They're malleable.
What what what an event meant to us one day can mean something different to us the next day.
What happened that traumatic experience that I'm thinking of from my childhood that scarred me for life and put me in therapy all these years.
I can years later in my therapist office say well you know what I actually learned something from that.
So we have this time as experienced argues Bosch lard is not the time of our lives moving from past to the future, but is rather this malleable changeable thing analogous to the electron.
That's more similar to the descriptions that's offered by physics so Bosch lard says that we have to not trust our as difficult as it is we have to not trust our intuition or common sense understanding, but to accept this the system of rationality, given to us by theories like
Relativity or quantum mechanics and apply it to areas that we otherwise wouldn't such as the interpretation of our life events and that's the that's the sermon that I was going to give so.
Well, well done people if you have questions stop pouring me now I've got a lot to get a lot of things to get through our people said.
Welcome people they said that felt wrong if the server effects were the result of me photons it would occur when no observation takes place.
It's a measurement problem as a result of the photons that the I do want to emphasize that for Heisenberg though this is a method a lot that uncertainty is is there at a at the most bottom level that is fundamental to quantum mechanics, but that the observer effect that is sometimes related to.
Heisenberg's uncertainty principle is a direct result of the photon hitting the electron.
Okay, that's what's causing the problem.
Yeah, but again, not a scientist.
So people don't know I'm a former youth pastor.
Now I acknowledge the gate use the mix these views does these interviews on religion philosophy and science.
But my only credentials are really in marketing and that's a I worked in marketing for a while and now got a post degree.
Post grad degree I somehow got into that without having a bachelor, which was cool.
But the, but one of the other I have a couple of certificates certificate and Christian ministry, but one of the other stuff because I have is a certificate in geographic geographic information systems.
So I work for a surveying in town planning firm, and someone said.
When isn't the first set lights scientists told the engineers that they would have to allow for the slowing of time like the GPS.
The engineers did not believe this, but put on a system in case turns out the scientists were correct.
And that brings me to a funny anecdote that happened in the surveying community and two things.
One reason I know that the earth is not flat.
We have to put we have to put algorithms in our data recorders that project 2d plans onto a spherical earth right because when you when you're making plans and in the in the computer and you, you know, we're talking seconds of degrees and millimeters of height.
You have to project them onto a spherical earth and depending on if you're going over 200 meters or something for a set out, it makes a slight difference.
So, you know, that formula is there.
And yet I've explained this to my friends and family who have flat earth is and they just I don't know what they do.
But what was really interesting is in the surveying industry.
Our GPS systems in I think 2010 just went whack and like not to to to a consumer level but to a spatial scientist level like why the world was like why.
Our GPS systems going funny.
And the reason was is because China built a dam that was so big that it put a wobble in the earth's orbit.
What?
100%.
Yeah.
The three George's dam it put it slowed the orbit of the earth and put a wobbling out.
So much so that our GPS systems went out of whack and we had to put they had to work out the had to put compensation algorithms into the scientific into the instruments to account for this wobble
of this or the slowing is really, really interesting.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Thank you, people for showing up those really nice to see some new faces in the comments is great to see that we we also so question for Michael.
Why does time move faster on Sunday afternoon than on Wednesday morning.
It's a fantastic question.
Yeah.
So this ties into something that I forgot to say.
And so let me say it and then I'll, I'll answer this so
another thing that complicates this.
This question is discussion about time so I made this distinction between physical time time is described by physics biological time time is experienced by biological organisms.
An aspect of biological time is the our psychological experience of time.
And part of the reason why people objected so much to Einstein, there's a lot going on there but psychology hadn't really developed into its own science yet.
And so, for example, Einstein and Henry Bergson get into this big debate.
Bergson's objections are primarily psychological.
Because for Bergson time, you can't talk about time without talking about our psychological experience of time.
And Einstein outright dismisses that Einstein actually says there is no time of the philosophers and by philosophers he means psychologist so he was pretty much wrong about that.
Just want to throw that out there that there was actually like legitimate grounds for that discussion and the legitimate grounds was that psychology wasn't really a thing yet.
But the people who were like proto French psychologists were saying well, well, wait a second, we can actually like measure this stuff.
Like, we can actually like run these experiments.
And so, to get back to Titan's question, which was why does time feel like it flows faster on Sunday.
Go ahead.
No, I was just laughing.
The answer to that is that the the we have this like old adage that time flies when you're having fun.
Like, that's observable, like most people report that happening.
The same way that time goes by really slow when you're sitting at work and waiting for it to hit five o'clock and you're staying at the clock and it seems like it's moving like incredibly slow.
And again, I can't speak to this because not a psychologist, but there's a there's a ton of research out there there's a book, but there's a there's a psychologist I really like named David Engelman, I believe is his last name.
He has this paper called brain time and physics physical time.
I can't remember the exact description, but he talks a lot about this.
And this has been something that's been observed like across the board so there is something to that is, I said all that to say that yes, there is something in fact to that, but ask a psychologist about it.
So, Aaron said, I feel like I would both understand this subject better and worse if I would agree, except I'll be having a panic attack.
So, question for Michael after all your research and study what is time to you.
Yeah, yeah, give us the answer.
Yeah, right.
If only I lean towards it appears to me that be theory is I'm leaning more and more towards be theory.
Okay, now there are some complications to that the complication being the growing block theory which is kind of a hybrid of a theory and be theory of time that has gotten increasing support by some physicists.
But I'll tell you, the person that I default to is an Italian scientist named Carlo Revelli, who wrote a absolutely fantastic book called the, I think it's called the order of time or the nature of time.
He's one of the clearest writers, physicist out there that's writing about time.
Revelli is also unlike other physicists like Neil DeCrasse Tyson who hate philosophy unjustly so Revelli is philosophically literate.
I'm just going to take random shots at famous scientists.
Do it.
I'll cut into short some more.
Tyson attraction.
If you ever want to debate me about the philosophy, I'm more than happy to accept.
And I'll rest.
Neil DeCrasse Tyson is actually a big watcher of this podcast.
I'll just say he loves it.
He's always emailing me afterwards.
But Carlo Revelli and he's wonderful to listen to because he's got this beautiful Italian accent.
But yeah, he's also very philosophically literate.
And he's wrote a couple of papers on defending the relationist account of time.
And that's what I find most convincing now.
But this is also a reflection of my background, which is exploring the history of relativity and the history of relativity up until general relativity is more closely aligned with B theory.
And then there are other scientific theories, especially once we start getting into space time and time within quantum mechanics.
People have made the argument that maybe it's a growing block.
But I'm leaning more now towards B theory.
If I had to choose, if you put a gun in my head and made me choose like for death situation, I'd say B theory.
But I'm also I'm only like 60% sure about that.
Okay.
I know nothing and B theory feels more intuitive to me.
So I got one.
I got a couple of last questions, but I did want to quickly mention something.
And this is big while mentioning that we'll have some big news.
The biggest thing that deep drinks has ever done and will.
And I've ever done ever on the Internet will be announced sometime in the next week.
It's been in the works.
And for a little while and I I'm very excited to tell everyone about it.
It's I've only told some close personal friends that were finally locked it in.
But stay tuned in the next week.
Hopefully I'll have an official announcement.
And we also you can also connect on discord to get involved in the conversation.
I've been pushing really hard for deep drinks trying to get deep drinks across to over 1000 subscribers.
Because that's the magic number where I can start getting super chats and things like that, which will help me continue to do this and get some more interesting guests.
Some guests requiring require speaking fees.
I also want to travel around and do in person interviews.
I want to create more content.
I eventually want to do this full time.
Hopefully.
So I've been going nuts with baby Atlas by my side, making them shorts.
So if you like, click through some of these shorts I've been creating.
They take me like five hours to add it.
Actually, they're actually put a lot of work into making them snappy.
But they will show like episodes that you can watch and share it with all your friends.
But mainly stay tuned for this really cool big news.
I'm super excited.
I can't wait to tell everyone this exciting.
So I'll tell you after the after we get off.
Yeah, I was going to say.
So I got a question from Lauren.
I'll just post this and Lauren is the friend that I was talking to last night.
She hasn't been able to watch live.
Why do you think psychedelics and ketamine changes the perceivers perspective on time?
So a big thing that I hear amongst my friends who have engaged in such activities is that they're like, I lived a million lifetimes in two minutes.
Why do you think that is?
Oh man.
Yeah.
Good question.
Well, I think that this this does show us something about the nature of time, which is, I don't want to.
I want to discount the psychological experience of time.
And at the same time, I want to emphasize Bachelard's point, which is that the psychological experience of time might be closer than we initially thought to descriptions of physical time.
And the reason why I bring that up in this case is that for Einstein, especially time is intimately linked with the observer.
Time is relative and relational to the observer.
So one observer is going to experience time differently from another observer.
And with psychedelics and with other drugs that you start to introduce to your body that start to affect the chemical makeup of your brain, the fact that it affects time speaks to the relative nature of it.
That's what I thought.
So I think it's, it's like, you know, how you put people in an MRI or something when they're on top of shrooms or something.
Once again, also I'm not advocating for the use of psychedelics.
I know that they can be there's some research that they can be really beneficial under the right context, but I also have friends and family who have missed the use them to the point where they've ended up in mental institutions.
So I'm not advocating for anyone to take them unless under professional situations.
But people who with who take like large amounts of shrooms or something under an MRI, you can see that their brain like parts of their brain are active that aren't normally active.
And it's almost like, it's almost like, you know how like the, the, you know, when you're talk like the quote by Einstein that probably isn't by Einstein, but that's funny.
That quote by Einstein that, you know, if you're talking to a pretty lady that, you know, your time will go really slow.
Or if you're on a Sunday time, it's, or a pretty man, don't try to be biased here.
But the, the, the thing is, is, is like, you know, maybe parts of your brain are lighting up differently.
And that's why like you're more aware socially.
So maybe when you're doing psychedelics, those parts of your brains are just like firing.
And as a result, you perceive time differently.
I don't know.
That's my thoughts.
That makes sense to me.
I'm sure there's a psychologist out there who could speak to it and kind of break it down and explain it better.
But I think what this reveals philosophically is that there's an element to time that is one, highly subjective and to physically dependent upon our perception of it.
I think those would be the important takeaways there.
Cool.
So I have a question that I ask all guests.
So when you're on here the first time I asked you, I'm pretty sure I asked you what if anything would change your mind as a question I like to ask everyone.
I also ask you what's your favorite type of afterlife if you could choose one and you gave a really interesting one.
You gave the Egyptian afterlife, which was cool.
Right.
So I have a question now that it's not really related to time, but as we wrap up, I'd like to ask a deep question.
What is the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in?
Oh boy.
You just had to throw something like that in there.
Most plausibly true religion.
Well, let me relate it to time real quick.
So there's some religious traditions, not religions, because the religious traditions I'm thinking of are from Christianity, but Christians have vastly different views of God.
And there's an entire tradition within Christianity about Christian theologians and philosophers reflecting on the relationship between God and time.
So as I mentioned before, people like Newton believe that absolute time was a fundamental feature of God.
And some theologians and philosophers conception of God is directly tied into kind of strict a theorist accounts of God or of time.
So I am, I am more and I'm not going to tell religious people what to believe or how they should believe because that's stupid.
Oh, of course.
But this applies to philosophy as well, by the way.
I think your philosophical and or religious ideas should at least be scientifically coherent.
So, or at least scientifically plausible or at least not scientifically contradictory.
So there are certain types of arguments, for example, the column cosmological argument put forward by philosophers theologians like William Lane Craig that arguments actually predicated on a particular view of a theory of time.
Wow, really.
Yeah, interesting that the universe had the beginning and that everything begins to exist.
Yeah, I never, I never thought about that.
Wow.
Interesting. And if you listen to Craig, he actually has to commit himself to defensive a theory of time because of that.
Wow.
But, and to Craig's point, to Craig's credit, I should say, he'll offer mathematical proofs. The issue is, is that the empirical evidence seems to suggest otherwise.
And so for me, you're kind of fighting a losing battle there to have an entire to have an entire philosophical in this case, and also a religious idea hinge upon a theory of time that's not super commonly accepted.
Yeah, so Craig support, I believe it's been a while since I read any of his stuff, but he supports an a theory of time, the growing block theory of time, so he'll say that, you know, that the past was real and that the presence real.
But he does have to commit himself to a form of a theory and if you look at his actual book that he wrote about the column he actually goes into more detail about that.
But I think that's a, and I've had conversations with philosophers, these are people that aren't even religious.
I don't want to bust myself out here on the off chance that my thesis advisor listens to the he doesn't listen to anything.
I'm actually more afraid of my thesis advisor, but at least he understands philosophy unlike Tyson.
But I presented to a group of philosophers a couple of weeks ago, and they said, well, you know, I just really prefer what Berkson has to say about time and I think that Berkson's description of time is more like fundamental but when you take that position like there what they're
admitting is that Berkson's account of time is is at odds with our basic understanding of relativity.
So like why would you put yourself in that position.
It's like me saying like, you know, Darwin was cool but you know I'm not sure I'm super on board with the whole like evolution thing like you're putting yourself in a, that's an uphill battle man.
So I would say the same thing in terms of scientifically plausible.
So long as it doesn't conflict with basic established scientific theories it's cool.
It would be.
I'd be okay with that.
Yeah, cool.
Just just to shout out some upcoming streams as well talking about William Lane Craig.
We have two guests coming on I haven't created the promo for them I just got the email confirmations the last two days but we have the Majesty reason coming on who actually has conversations with William Lane Craig and he's a critic of the column cosmological argument.
Someone said, calm fails in P one logically anyway.
I'm tired and said that you say that but there are a lot of people who still find the column convincing so the conversation will be having with Majesty reason is why why that is.
Why do they find it convincing you know what can we give a best faith interpretation of the column and we also have.
We also have a James fodder coming on who is a university student from Melbourne.
He's a neuroscientist as well so he will be talking about will be talking about a lot of the same things philosophy and things like that so both really exciting guests to come on.
Michael, it's been fantastic having a conversation with you and great answers to so many questions.
Thank you so much.
Make sure everyone go check out his channel.
Make sure you subscribe to deep drinks has helps us get to 1000 subscribers and we'll see you all guys another time Michael is anything else you want to say before we leave.
I really appreciate it David it's always an absolute pleasure to to talk to you if you're interested in learning more about David.
I've interviewed David a few times on my channel if you want to go check out those videos highly recommend them.
I think that to be fair to most people don't come here for me but but there is a let me just quickly go to your channel.
This interview we did let me just see this interview we did here is staggering 89 views which I'll be seeing because I put a lot of work into flashing out my positions here and so I think this is a good interview to watch.
I think it's something relatively interesting if you want to know where I build my worldview from and that's great show thank you deep drinks podcast thank you so much really appreciate this comments and I'll see you guys all next week.
Which we're still up in the air with a guest but we do have someone tentatively plan so see you guys and look forward to seeing that big announcement coming up.
See you later.
.
