What is the significance of the Dead Sea Scrolls?
What do apologists not tell you?
Have there been forgeries?
And do their very existence prove that the universe had a creator?
Let's find out.
Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcast.
Thank you so much for coming out.
It's an honor to be able to put on these shows.
They're absolutely fantastic.
You got to have conversations with people like my guest today,
who is Kip Davis, Dr. Kip Davis, who is a philologist,
a Hebrew Bible scholar who specializes in the Dead Sea Scrolls
and Second Temple Judaism, focusing on ancient scribal practices.
Dr. Kip Davis received his PhD in religion and theology
from Manchester University in 2009.
And among many other things, you may recognize him
from the PBS NOVA documentary Dead Sea Scroll Detectives,
which documented his part in discovering the forgeries
in the Dead Sea Scrolls antiquity market.
With that said, I'd like to welcome for a very fun stream
with whiskey involved and metal bands.
Welcome Dr. Kip Davis.
Thanks for coming on, man.
Thanks for coming on.
No, I've been looking forward to this.
This is going to be fun.
So, you know, we're running this slavery panel, right?
And I'm trying to find an image of you to use.
And the image that just everyone is using
is just the one where you're, like, looking over something,
maybe a laptop or some artifacts or something,
and you're wearing an iron maiden t-shirt.
And I was like, yes, I like this guy.
So what I thought is we needed to start this conversation
but as we pour the drink of choice by talking about metal bands.
But first of all, what are we drinking?
What are we drinking?
We're drinking fine Canadian rye tonight, Crown Royal.
This is David's first drink of Crown Royal.
Look at the size of my bottle compared to yours.
Like that.
That's also the size of our knowledge.
No, not.
Well, I want to be ready for tonight, right?
So I figured I better have a big enough bottle.
So there are a variety of Canadian rye whiskies.
Canada Club, Gibson's, Alberta Premium Whiskey.
I particularly like Crown Royal.
It's easy enough to find, well, unless you're in Australia.
Yeah, and it's quite smooth.
This cost me like $50 for less than $55.
Holy cow.
Yeah, it's just sold out everywhere.
My bottle was not $50.
Well, I think also the conversion.
That's nice.
It's very smooth.
Very smooth, yeah.
It's a very smooth soul.
I'm a bit of a Scotch fan myself,
so I like a whiskey that puts up a bit more of a fight
that you feel like you've been smacked in the mouth a little bit.
I can see that this has a bit of that,
but it's also very smooth at the same time.
Yeah, it's a nice, easy drinking rye.
Yeah, I find.
Which is going to be a little bit dangerous, I can tell.
I told my family they're coming over for a dinner afterwards.
And yeah, and I said, look, I've got a Bible scholar coming on
and he wants to drink straight whiskey.
And so this is what we do.
This is what we'll do.
I might be drunk at the family event.
This is the occupation.
Yeah, exactly.
You didn't pick this up.
It picked you.
Yeah, exactly.
So the very first I want to start this conversation
because obviously maybe I should.
Sorry, you told your I was going to say when I when I told my wife
that that I was doing this podcast
and that we were drinking straight rye.
So she said to me, she said, if you get sick drunk,
she said, you're sleeping outside.
So you got a sleeping bag ready?
No, it's even worse because I'm going.
I'm going snowboarding with my kids tomorrow.
So great.
That's great.
We'll see this.
Maybe you might be coloring, coloring some of the snow
for making like a yellowy vomit color.
Responsible drinking about cold people.
It's for me, it's 11 a.m.
I just just had breakfast and coffee.
So it's but luckily it's socially acceptable to drink in Australia.
Here, here.
So so I wanted to drink in the day in Australia.
It's already affecting me.
So one of the things I wanted to do is is mention.
So so you're obviously a professor, a professor, a doctor of PhD in,
you know, the Hebrew Bible and philology, which is, I guess,
philology, is that like ancient writing?
Is that what?
So that is it's it's basically it's basically syntax,
diction, writing, grammar, texts.
It's it's like a comprehensive overview of a textual scholarship.
So you can be, you know, a Hebrew philologist
or you could be an English philologist or an Australian English philologist.
I don't know.
There is such a thing, but probably the text books
are probably pretty thin, eh? Yeah.
So so yeah, it's just it's just a fancy way
of of saying I specialize in texts of this language.
And, you know, with with with with the with the intention
of doing close deep readings from the language, right?
Of course, that involves all sorts of other things, too.
But but that's that's what philology is.
Well, like the love of.
Language or knowledge or, you know.
Well, with with someone like yourself on with such a such a vast know
like vast knowledge of the engineers,
I know everyone is wanting to know this question,
which is what are your top five favorite metal bands? Oh, man.
So so everyone knows.
Like I I grew up in Canada.
And I I got a postdoc.
I did I did my my my PhD in the UK.
I got a postdoc to go and work in Norway for three years.
And when I I left Canada to go to Norway,
I in many ways felt like I had had discovered
my long lost country and my people
because they play
like like serious face smashing death metal on the radio
in Norway and Sweden and Finland.
So I have I have lots and lots of friends,
biblical scholars, mostly in the the the Nordic countries.
And this is this is pretty normal stuff
to be a massive heavy metal listening biblical scholar.
So when you ask me about my five favorite metal bands,
I I like agonized over this all week
because I I I started with a list of like 20.
And you you you're forcing me to whittle it down to five.
So I mean, right away, I have to give I have to give a whole bunch
of honorable mentions to, yeah, like the the great
the great German super group Romstein or like the very, very angry.
When I kick your balls in Oteb, the Hungarian Thai catafalque,
I love death, wheel nine inch nails,
the French band Koshida, sepultra, I like ginger,
Marilyn Manson, mega death, corn, stone sour.
I mean, I listen to all this stuff. OK. Yeah.
But because you're you're making me pick five.
Yeah. Here we go. You're right.
You're ready. And we're going to go.
We're going to start at the top because everybody knows
right. Everybody knows is number one.
Well, I was thinking so I've written my top five as well.
So. Oh, I don't have one in any.
Are we going to are we going to go back and forth?
Yeah, let's go back and forth.
So give us give us number five.
Oh, we're going to start with number five. OK.
And go go and this.
So I'll have to I have to clarify to that.
Maybe tomorrow spots two through five have have have all switched.
Yeah, that's the same for me.
It's there's one and then there's like the next five or the next four.
So number five on my list is a is a band
that I encountered when I moved to Norway
from the the great city of Stavanger.
And they shriek in nothing but Norwegian.
And you should all check them out.
My number five band is Kavella talk.
Kavella talk. OK.
I've never heard of it.
Valor talk.
OK, how do I spell that number five man?
KV. KVL.
You are. Yeah.
T is it OK?
It's a K.
And it's a Norwegian word, which basically means like strangling you.
OK, so I've that's that's great.
So I'll so let me just I want to share
so people can get the vibe of some of these bands.
Oh, OK. Google images can see.
I I wondered about about putting this together.
There we go.
Now, I have to I have to make a qualification here. OK.
On their last album, Split, which was a year ago now,
they featured a new lead singer and I just I just don't like him as much.
He's just not as good.
So they're they're their their last album that they did just before Split,
not as third is phenomenal.
Everybody OK, not OK.
And then the Meir is very good.
And and the other one before that, I can't I can't remember it off hand.
I would have worn I used to have a Kavella talk concert T.
But I think I I think I left it in a hotel room somewhere.
So yeah, I OK.
You're number five, man, my number five.
So I I have to give a few honorable mentions as well.
Like to I mean, as cringy as it is,
like new metal kind of stuff as well.
I like corn, like honorable mention.
I like even I even like Limp Bizkit's Chocolate Starfish album.
That was a fun album.
I mean, I know that we get this.
I know we get this.
That's a controversy. Yeah, I can listen to it.
It's good. But my my number five.
And I have to I have to put this here because it played such an important part
of my my teenage years is Metallica.
Metallica is my number five.
And since going back and listening to the
Disography recently, I mean, really, when I say Metallica,
it's like the load and reload albums kind of were like that, like Black
was a great album, Masters of Puppets and Justice and Justice for All.
Ride Lightning, Kill em All.
That's my favorite.
Which one? The Lightning.
Ride the Lightning is my favorite Metallica album. Yeah.
So.
But you should know everybody should know this because, you know,
I I'm like one of these weirdos.
Metallica is not on my list.
Yeah. Yeah.
I saw that you posted that. You saw that.
Hmm. I have to.
I have to say that Iron Maiden is not on my list.
But it's an. Oh, OK.
All right. So we go on number four.
Are we ready for number four?
Number four. Yeah.
OK.
This is a local Canadian band.
They actually they're just from down the road in Vancouver.
Unleash the archers.
And I have to I have to actually give a shout out to a YouTube.
I see them all over there.
They are phenomenal.
They've got a they've got a female lead.
Yeah. Yeah, that's cool.
And she kills it.
So have you ever have you ever seen this?
Do you know this?
She's like a she's like a trained opera singer.
This is not a charismatic voice.
No. Oh, yeah.
I said we're on YouTube.
Amazing. She's amazing. Yeah.
So but she's she's she's listens to she's done a few reviews
of Unleash the archers albums.
And she's had the the female vocalist on once or twice in an interview.
Wow.
Wow. What is Metallica was the first band I slept outside for.
Oh, wow. That's so cool.
Yeah. Oh, can I tell you I have the closest I've ever gotten
to seeing Metallica live.
This is the lamest story you'll ever hear.
Yeah.
I was probably 17 years old.
And and it was the black album.
What it would be.
Yeah, I think it would have been the black album tour then.
I was I grew up in in Calgary, Alberta.
And I was hardcore for Jesus when I was 17.
And my my very good.
What were my very good friend of mine and I he was also hardcore for Jesus.
We were like we were we wanted to be evangelists.
And we were also on like headbangers.
So what we decided to do, we're like, you know, we're not going to be
like those lame evangelists who just preach at people.
We actually took like our hard earned money and went and bought
like cassette tapes because this is, you know, the 1980s.
Yeah, very late 1980s.
We bought cassette tapes of Christian heavy metal bands.
Oh, well, went.
We went to the Metallica concert and wandered around.
And it's it's so it's fucking February.
It's probably 18 degrees below zero Celsius.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, you know, in my home town.
And we're wandering around, you know, outside.
They wouldn't they'd let us into the concourse just to warm up a little bit.
But the security didn't want us inside the building.
So we wandered around outside a costing people trying to give them these cassette tapes
at the Metallica concert and it was hard.
And I might have broken to tears once or twice as I as I listened to
what's what's the drummer's name?
Now, Lars Ulrich.
Yes, Lars Ulrich, as we listen to him
doing his doing his drum solos, you know, in the inside the the arena.
So, well, closest I ever got to seeing Metallica.
Wow. So and the next time, more recently, they did a concert here in in B.C.
And and I thought about like taking one of my kids to go.
I have three, but I'm not rich.
So my poor kids have to take turns doing fun things with that.
Yeah.
And I thought, oh, it'd be fun to take one of my kids to go see Metallica.
And the reason I wanted to go was because there was another band
that's on my list that I wanted to go see.
But then when I checked Ticketmaster and found out that they started at like
one hundred and thirty dollars, I was like, no, it's yeah, yeah.
It's not that important.
Yeah. So sorry, man.
Unleash the archers, everyone, Unleash the Archers was number four.
And for me, my number four.
And this is like so we're getting my list now is like all over the place.
You see, I'd probably put this band is probably number two at the moment,
but I'm putting them on for because they're just very they're a very new
addition to my metal favorites.
And that is Tool.
Oh, yeah, they're good.
Hey, yeah, just like that.
Just I feel like I can put Tool on and like lay down and just kind of go on
a journey where like I can't do that with a lot of metal bands.
You know, like with the tool, it feels like their albums are so like
they take you on a journey.
I don't know. It's wild.
Like there's this one song.
There's one song we I'd recently had a
Atlas, we just had a baby Atlas and I had I had Atlas were in the hospital
and I had him on my chest, I think, or maybe Amy had him.
Anyway, I was lying there and I was like half asleep
because you can't release, you know, it's bad sleep in the hospital.
And I've got my headphones in and it's I think it's the song after
schism on there on one of their albums.
And it has this big like like drone noise that comes in in one of the songs.
And it just hit like I was in like this like half sleep state.
And it hit me in this weird way that it felt like something was in the room
and it felt like what my body I think I think I felt like I actually moved.
I was like, whoa, like it felt like my head was like spinning.
Like I was like, whoa.
And I was just like I woke up like I thought I was falling off the bed.
It was it was crazy.
It's crazy when music can do that to you.
That's awesome. Yes, it is.
Yeah, it is. OK, number three.
Number three is and now I I have to I have to say
I I had some reservation about whether or not this even counted.
OK. But.
Easily one of the bands that I listen to the most
like I rotate stuff quite a bit.
But these guys are always it seems like they're always in the rotation.
And that is Ghost.
Oh, yeah.
Who doesn't love Ghost?
Well, it's it's funny.
I know like that the I got.
Yes, it's Square Hammer.
If it wasn't Square Hammer, that song and that whole like
the video was a whole vibe.
The video was fucking amazing.
Yes, it's such a weird, weird band, the anti-pop kind of stuff.
And and oh, yeah.
And they go it goes into like this old Dracula style.
Like, yeah, come here, brother.
And like, it's just creepy.
I love Ghost. I love. Yes, that is.
And it's the it's the best.
I think my favorite thing in this video is is when they move,
they don't like they're they look like they're just kind of floating
across the street, right?
It's amazing. Oh, I love it.
My this the same buddy of mine who who, you know, went on the
evangelistic crusade to save all the poor people in the Metallica concert
told me recently he was at like he was he was at a party or something.
And and he he just or he had a party at his house and he just had like
like like a mix on in the background, which included some ghost.
And someone commented in the party about about, you know, what a great
what a great mix this was and who is this?
And he said, oh, this is ghost.
And the guy's like, oh, I don't know that.
I've never heard of that. He's like, what is that?
He says it's like hymns to Satan.
So but it's funny because they actually like they what I love about
ghosts is that they're really dedicated to the performance.
So if anyone doesn't know, they've got a very anti-poop thing.
So they have they they like to be poep.
But what was what's really cool about about how they do it is like this.
This is what I can't remember if I saw this clip or I just heard about it.
But like the lead singer comes out.
So all the other band members are anonymous.
They wear these like masks, but the lead singer,
he's like a different pope, a different anti-poop through different
albums and stuff, Maritas. Yeah, Maritas.
Yeah. And he comes he comes out to start the show.
And then the clergy, which are the other band members, grab him,
kicking and screaming and pull him into the back and like like as if he's being murdered.
And then a new pope comes out, new anti-poop.
And it's like the clergy has elected this new pope and and it's the same singer,
but he's like dressed differently.
And funny enough, that is sorry.
Let me just share my screen again.
But that's actually that was actually the inspiration for the patron tears on my patron.
So I won. Oh, yes.
Yes, yes. You've got like that's so good.
He's bishop, archbishop, pardon me.
And I used AI imagery to to get these different levels.
And like, of course, obviously, there's only a certain amount based, like there's only 18
archbishop because there's only 18 archbishops in the world and stuff like that.
So yeah, yeah.
And the first 12 people I should just mention, the first 12 people will be
canonized as the first like regard forever.
As canonized as the first 12 disciples.
Yeah. So you can sign up.
And if you have to pause or cancel the membership, they're totally cool.
You'll still be the first first 12 disciples of of of forever more.
You'll be a pillar, a pillar.
Yeah, deep, deep, deep.
Sorry, I said deep, deep, deep.
That's cool. That's cool.
Deep Dicks podcast.
So, so yeah.
OK, so ghost is your third.
That's great. That's that's interesting.
I like that. It's number three.
For me, number three. Go.
No, no, I was going to say, I mean, Square Hammer is amazing,
but they've got some they have, I mean, you seriously, anybody who doesn't know,
they have to listen to the whole catalog.
They've got some like it's amazing stuff.
Anyway, he he he is that song feels like a worship.
Oh, man.
Let's talk about Satan.
Have you heard Bible?
Do you know that song?
It's not much very much like that, too.
It's like, oh, yes, it's it's so weird.
Oh, and they did.
Have you have you heard their cover of Missionary Man?
No, I have to. Oh, my God.
That's so good.
So you're number three, my third favorite.
And I had to put this on system of a down right now in my circle,
they're over listened to, but I just love the Armenian metal folk mix
that they got going on. I love system of a down. Yeah.
What are they called? I don't know this system of a down system of a down.
Do you know the system of a down? No, no, you would know them.
You would know. I'm an old guy.
Are they how old are they?
Because I'm like I'm like almost 50.
Ion system of a down.
You'd know them like I think so.
There if I heard them, I'd know them.
They're this band.
They're really they're like, oh, man, if you haven't heard them,
they like blend like I mean, they blend Armenian folk with like metal
and they're really heavy and it looks amazing.
Rob Rubin produced them.
Yeah, they're great.
Yeah, I think you should check them out.
Oh, I'm glad I'm giving you something to pull that up on my Spotify now.
Listen to the album, Toxicity.
OK, it's why it's so it's really wild and weird.
That was number three, right?
Yeah, what's number two? So number two.
Number two is is another band that I didn't discover
until I went away to Norway.
And this is one that all my Finnish friends
caught me on and that is the Finnish band Amorphous.
Do you know them?
No, I don't. Oh, man.
So actually, I they're so good
that the the single from their last album, Moon,
is something that I don't remember if I if I shared it with Dr.
Josh or or mentioned it to him.
But but he liked it so much that
he apparently listens to it all the time now.
So these guys, I have to say this about these guys.
So they're from Finland.
They have produced what is, in my opinion,
one of the most fantastic metal epics of all time.
It is a three album set of songs
that is all based on the Calavella,
which is the the collection of of Norse
creation, epics and mythology.
Oh, wow. And they they they built three full albums
based on the Calavella.
And it is it's incredible.
So one of the songs, which is called Sky Forger,
is is about.
Oh, shoot, what's his name?
He's the the great hammerer who who built the sky, basically.
It's it's a it's a creation song.
It's the title track for their album, Sky Forger.
But this is a song that I actually use.
I introduce the the the
I guess it's the fifth lecture in my in my
course, an Israelite religion, I introduce it with this song.
As a way to talk about creation imagery.
So it's actually it's yeah, it's in there still,
because I haven't taken these down yet.
If you go down to Cosmos, yeah, 3.1.
Yeah, there it is 3.1.
It should just be called.
Yeah, this one.
So nice.
I remember hearing some metal bands at the start of some of your your stuff.
There's always metal at the start of my stuff.
Oh, nice.
So sorry, I just saw this.
I didn't know that you did a video on David A. Folk.
Oh, you did it. No, he has he has lovely breasts, that man.
So if anyone doesn't get that joke, I am glad.
So cool, cool.
All right. So your third is amorphous.
I'll have to check them out. I haven't. No, that was that was number two.
Oh, it's number two. Sorry, number two.
We're on number two. Yeah.
OK, my my number two.
And this is a toss up between.
If you see, I feel like they should be number one,
but then I also feel like the other band should be number one.
Number two for me is Slipknot, like Slipknot is number two.
And I think it's just because there was a there was a while where I really hated
my job, really, really hated my job.
I was driving to Brisbane every every day to do
drafting and I I'm just so bad at like finer detail kind of stuff.
And I was just so and my my boss was being like
at the time was being a real a real big he's left the company.
So if anyone from my works, yeah, we all we all think he's a dick now anyway.
And I remember just listening over and over again to people equal shit
by Slipknot and it made me feel OK.
And so that's then and and there, you know, I've got one of the I've got their whiskies.
The Cori Cori's sabers.
But I got one of their whiskies, the the Iowa whiskey.
And and I the rule is I have to listen to when I drink it.
And it's only for special occasions.
So I listen to Slipknot and I have some and yeah, it's good, good stuff.
So that's my number two.
Sorry, the dogs are barking.
That's OK. All right.
Number one. No one's surprised.
It's the granddaddies of them all.
It's Iron Maiden.
So and they will always be number one.
They will always be number one.
What's your favorite album?
Oh, God.
Ah, it.
It is probably Power Slave.
Power. OK. Yeah.
The two minutes to midnight on that one.
What's that?
Two minutes to midnight.
Yes, is that? Yeah, that's yeah, that's on that one.
I believe I believe Wicker Man is on that album.
Oh, you know what?
Actually, I think it's underappreciated.
But but another one that I love of their albums is is Brave New World.
Yes. Yeah.
This is like their big comeback album.
I thought it was phenomenal.
All right.
And they and they.
Sorry, what was that?
The first time I ever bought
were both waiting for each other.
The first time I ever bought was Fear of the Dark.
And oh, yeah.
And it was funny, actually, because as a Christian,
I believe the words had the power of life and death.
And so I didn't want to actually say I didn't actually want to sing along
to Fear of the Dark.
So I changed it to Fear of the Dark.
So I used to say, Fear of the Dark, Fear of the Dark.
Because I thought, well, if I if I actually do get Fear of the Dark,
it's not going to affect my life too much.
You know, it's Fear of the Dark.
Yeah, you're good.
So have you ever seen them?
No, no, I don't think I've seen any metal bands, to be honest.
I'm not a big person.
Well, I never used to be.
But I'm trying to become that kind of person.
Someone A train Super Chat of two dollars.
Thank you, A train so much.
I really appreciate any Super Chats.
Does keep David's listen to does Dr.
Kip listen to slipknot?
Occasionally, yes.
Yeah, OK, cool.
So it doesn't it doesn't make it into the another regular orientation
a lot, but yeah, I just love that.
I think I just appreciate the artistry in slipknot.
Like I appreciate bands that that have like a like a law.
And that really plays into my first band, which is you mentioned them before.
My first band and probably tied.
Well, it's very hard to put them as number one, but right now they're number one.
And if it wasn't for their song, Deutschland,
it wouldn't be no more. Oh, my God, Ramstein Ramstein is my favorite.
Yes. Yeah. Yes.
Just they're just that is a phenomenal song.
Yeah, it's just I think so much.
I mean, everybody is it just me?
I feel like everybody, the first Ramstein song
everybody ever heard was do host.
Yeah, was it?
But the one I know what I love.
Firefly. Yes.
I think that's my favorite.
And the and the video for that one is is is fucking amazing as well.
I feel like that's like I feel like that's a band that that's a live show
that could potentially kill you.
Ramstein, I feel like a live show like survival is optional.
Yeah, yeah.
That's so true.
Chat GTP said when I first heard Master of Puppets,
I couldn't understand the words.
I thought it was saying bastard, bastard, get off your arse and get plastered.
That's so good.
So that actually.
So no, what do you want to do next?
Because well, well, we're 30 minutes, 34 minutes in.
And we're definitely we I wanted I wanted to start with the metal bands
because, you know, to get us like in the zone and, you know, and talking,
you know, now we're going to move into some scholarship.
But OK, hopefully with a bit of, you know, we're drunk.
So well, I'm definitely feeling it.
But but yeah, let's we can go back to metal bands throughout
and can keep talking about them.
But yeah, I was going to ask you because I did I did promise on Twitter.
I promised people that that I would I would talk about the five
best Christian metal bands.
Yeah, no, let's do that.
Let's do that.
So these are not the cheesy ones, guys.
OK, I guarantee you that none of these bands suck.
There are a lot of Christian metal bands that suck.
But these ones don't.
Do you want to do that?
OK, yeah, let's let's do that.
Let's do that.
OK, now.
All right. So and I think and again, because I'm because I'm a weirdo.
Striper isn't on this list.
And I love striper.
I don't know. I love striper.
People are posting it.
Yes, I love striper.
I I have to keep saying that I do have to say.
So my brother and I.
When we were I would have been like 12, 13 years old when soldiers under command
came out, which was their second album after the yellow and black attack
came out and and we didn't buy our own albums.
My brother and I, we always we always bought albums together and we shared.
I had a really good brother.
He was like super nice to me.
So we shared.
But when this album came out, we were so excited about it and we were anxious to get it.
So we told my mom that she should go and pick it up for us because we really wanted it.
So we gave, you know, we said, you know, we've got money for this.
Can you please, please, please, please, please go by this because we can't get down to,
you know, the Christian bookstore until like Saturday and it's Tuesday.
And so she's like, OK, and and then we came home and we were super excited.
And she, you know, she was mad.
She bought the album and it was vinyl.
It was a it was a white vinyl striper limited edition, white vinyl striper soldiers under
command. I still have it.
It's in the basement.
I should have pulled those out.
I got so much great striper vinyl, but OK, I we had to sit down and listen to my mother
give us like a 40 minute lecture about these like super effeminate looking guys in their spandex.
And, you know, so I don't know what the hell I'm going to do.
You don't know striper.
Oh, man, you've got to.
So it's got to be it's got to be the 80 striper.
There you go.
The yellow and black, the yellow and black stuff.
Oh, yeah.
This is a this is a Christian metal band.
It is. Yes.
This is probably the most successful Christian heavy metal band of all time.
Oh, well, and they are they are amazing.
I mean, they are so, so good.
That's so good.
And they used to so they used to they at their at their concerts,
they actually they actually printed their own special
like little New Testaments that had like the band logo on the front.
And they would, you know, bring stacks of these out at the end of the concert.
They would like throw them into the audience.
New Testaments for everyone.
I love it's like a Trump sign Bible or a Benny Hinn sign Bible
that you can get like 500 bucks.
Yeah. Yeah. Wow.
No, the striper was so cool.
That's cool. That's cool.
OK, so yeah, give us your top.
Give us your top five or like my top five.
And I'm going to start at the I'm going to start at the bottom here.
OK, number five for me is
and people have to bear with me because I'm an old guy.
OK, so like lots of this stuff is pretty old.
Yeah.
Number five is a metal industrial band
called Circle of Dust.
Oh, I don't know them.
Do you know? Really?
They're phenomenal.
So just so everyone knows, there is a little there.
There is a track of Circle of Dust
in the in the intro and conclusion music
to my Dead Sea Scrolls on a Pulmogenically series.
So Circle of Dust. OK.
Number four is is actually a more recent band,
but I think they kick ass and that is the very terribly named Theocracy.
Theocracy. Do you know them?
No. Oh, yeah, they're good.
They're very, very good.
So. Wow, OK.
There they are.
Cool. So they they in their.
Yeah, it was, I think it was in their last.
No, not their last album in their the title track for
as no, as the album as the world bleeds,
the opening track of it is called Yahweh.
And it's a 12 minute song.
And it's it's beautiful.
It seriously, seriously beautiful.
So that's number four.
Number three.
Uh, they used to be called a mortification back in the 80s.
But then they made it big
in the 90s and went under the name Betrayal.
And they made. OK.
I think they made three albums with Roadrunner.
Phenomenal. Excellent band.
So and and some of some of Betrayal's guitar tracks
will show up here and there in in my videos as well.
My Tower of Babel video features.
Plead the Blood by Betrayal.
So number two. In my opinion.
Uh, the probably the most phenomenally talented
Christian band. Any Christian band.
Ever. OK, that is believer.
I don't even know.
No, so you need to listen to
everybody needs to listen to two albums by Believer.
And that is Sanity Obscure and Dimensions.
OK, Dimensions was was their big
breakout album, like in the mainstream, and it didn't take.
But they actually got a they got a review,
like a full proper review in Heavy Metal magazine.
And the reviewer, when when the album came out,
was like falling all over himself about how amazing this album was.
But then super pissed that nobody was going to notice
because because of this super obscure
little Christian band.
But I kid you not, you've got to go listen to those two albums,
Sanity Obscure and Dimensions.
And you can find it.
You can find them on Spotify.
You can find them on on YouTube, even if you if you need to.
So but the number one for me, the Big Daddies, is a band.
And I don't even know if they I mean, I always thought I always thought
they counted as a Christian band.
But then they, you know, released songs like The Bastards Will Pay.
So.
Yeah, yeah, I still I still think they qualify.
And that is one of the great pioneers of Doom Metal.
Uh, who were formed already way back in 1979 before the rubber was the striper.
And that is trouble.
Um, so they've they they have they have a discography
that basically spans the 1980s and most of the 1990s.
Uh, the the the early stuff is is pretty amazing.
The production values are very poor, though.
I can't.
But but the they they had two.
They did two albums on it was either Metal Blade or Road Runner.
And that was a self titled album just called Trouble.
And then another one called Manic Frustration,
which is which is still one of my favorite albums, I think, of all time.
So that's that's a good metal.
OK, well, I I have a list of Christian metal that I'll quickly flick through.
This is this is my top top.
So first up, we have these five.
Go, what are you saying?
No, no, OK.
Are these good bands or are these so I'll call qualify.
So this band, Disciple, they were good.
I thought they were good, but I didn't know if they'll.
No, they're not very good now.
But they were they were cool because they they literally just
they really like the god stuff was right in your face.
They had like altercalls at the end of the album.
Oh, yeah. Stuff like that.
Well, cool, cool.
As they dying, they're they're OK.
Oh, yeah.
Although the lead lead singer did as as he was a Christian band,
the lead singer did get in trouble for soliciting a hitman to kill his wife.
So he went to Jennifer that praise Christ.
And.
Demon Hunter, Demon Hunter is a really cool band.
Yeah. And just the album covers.
I remember I remember the the church, one of the church ladies
got in for our church bookstore and she's like, is this really Christian?
She's like trying to ask me.
She's like, I got it from Koo wrong, but it doesn't look very Christian.
I'm like, no, I'm like, see, it's a it's a demon with a bullet in its head.
See, it's been killed.
So that makes it good.
Right. Yeah, that's what Jesus would do.
Jesus would would shoot bullets right through the demons.
Yeah. So some of their songs are amazing.
And I see some people, you know, a train, Demon Hunter is a best.
Yeah, they're cool.
Of course, for me, under oath, can't talk about it.
Can't not talk about under oath.
I will go against the grain here and say that I liked their album.
Disambiguation more than any of their other albums, especially
in division and paper long.
I think they're still an amazing band.
In fact, I was listening to them as I was going out to get breakfast this morning.
And a little band that a lot of people don't know of,
but they're really they're actually really good is becoming the archetype.
This Christian. I've never heard of them.
They're just they're they're very they're cool.
They're cool. They're very they're dark.
They're they're they're like epic.
They're kind of like.
Oh, my gosh. Do you know what?
I just realized who I forgot to mention one of my
this would probably beat out one of the top five.
And I didn't even have them in my top five metal bands in flames,
in flames, especially the oldest stuff.
Oh, yeah, in flames.
They're like, um, yeah, the you feel you feel like you're on your own.
Like when you're listening to the music, it's kind of sounds like it's like
it's got the real like like it's not it's hard to like the death metal.
But you at the same time, you feel like you're on top of like a castle
fighting a dragon with your like a unicorn.
And, you know, like, it's just it's really like medieval epic kind of stuff.
I like it, especially the album, um, uh, uh, I forgot.
Forgot the album. That's not.
Anyway, anyway, I'll find it in a sec.
But anyway, that so that they're my five Christian albums.
And what does everyone think is, uh, is there anyone else?
Do we miss any? Do we miss any? Let us know if we missed any.
Yes, let us know.
I'm sure I must them all.
Oh, yeah. Remember, I really appreciate that.
Well, I guess that means that, oh, no, we've actually got only we only got
seven spots left because I saw that we had another digital Hammurabi sign up as well.
So seven spots left.
Thank you.
And you're actually going to get really appreciate it.
I mean, digital Hammurabi.
Yeah, of course. Yeah, it's funny because I'll probably ask him to do
some behind the scenes content and then for the patron.
And he's anyway, um, he's I love, I love, uh, we love you, Josh and Megan.
We love you. Oh, of course.
Aren't they just, yeah, I'm obsessed with those two.
So, um, so we've spent like, like almost an hour talking about heavy metal.
I have everyone's scrolls, people.
Yeah. So I, yeah, I wanted to do this part of me that really wanted to kind of
like get into the Dead Sea Scroll stuff, but I was having such great time
with the metal stuff.
Okay. So, so now we're going on from the dead metal to Dead Sea Scrolls.
Yes. What a transition.
What are the Dead Sea Scrolls?
Can you give us a short introduction about what they are?
Yeah, absolutely.
So the Dead Sea Scrolls are a very large collection of ancient Jewish manuscripts,
um, which belonged, which appear to have belonged to a group of, uh, elite ascetic
Jews who were living out in the wilderness, uh, just south of Jerusalem,
and were waiting for the end of the world.
While they were waiting, um, they read a lot and they probably also wrote a lot.
And as a result, uh, we have this collection of almost a thousand, uh,
identifier manuscripts, uh, so comprised of tens of thousands of fragments as you,
I don't know if you can see, um, on the screen behind me.
I'm actually at the moment, um, working on a, uh, I, I'm reviewing a,
a master's thesis, which is all about unidentified aramaic fragments from one of the caves.
So it's, it's literally, it's like that, uh, tiny little fragments, individual little pieces with,
with, uh, bits of writing on them.
Um, and scholars have been working for, uh, over 70 years now at,
at piecing this, this huge collection, uh, together.
So the, the scroll fragments were discovered in 11 caves in a one and a half kilometer radius
of, uh, one another.
And in very close proximity of this, of the ruins of a settlement, uh, that we call Qumran,
um, it's just, uh, southwest of Jericho, uh, maybe five or 10 kilometers.
I'm going to get that wrong, um, right on the, uh, uh, western shore of the Dead Sea.
And, uh, yeah, this, this site, this settlement was active for, uh, the first century BC.
And, uh, most of the first century CE before, uh, the Romans came and basically,
uh, demolished the place on their way from Jerusalem, uh, to Masada.
Uh, in 70.
So that's what the Dead Sea Scrolls are.
And they're really important.
Or was this going to be your next question?
No, no, no, yeah.
Okay.
Well, uh, pretty much is, yeah.
Um, so the, so.
Go ahead.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I was just going to ask, like, so what's the significance of them in regards to,
so I, I know that the, you know, what I learned in ministry college is they actually
prove the Bible's real, like, or, or factual.
Oh yeah.
So, yeah.
So what is that?
But, but for a more historical, and of course there, there are some arguments there that,
that, you know, these, these Old Testament scriptures haven't changed, um, you know,
that because, because as far as I remember is, is it the Dead Sea Scrolls, they were,
they were some of our, they, they are our earliest manuscripts of the, of the Hebrew Bible.
Is that right?
Uh, for most of the Hebrew Bible, yes.
So, okay.
Um, the reason, so these were,
the, the Dead Sea Scrolls were discovered, uh, mostly between 1947 and 1953.
And, um, one of the reasons that they are so significant is, uh, is because prior to the
discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls for the Old Testament, the Old Testament was written in Hebrew,
um, we had copies, quite a few copies of, uh, of the Old Testament that was transmitted
by Christians in Greek, uh, after like the third, fourth century, lots of codices and
fragments as well.
We had a handful of, of fragments of the Septuagint, the Greek translation of, uh,
the Old Testament that stretched all the way back to the first or the second century, uh, BC.
But we didn't have a lot.
Um, there were no, uh, Hebrew manuscripts almost of any of the Old Testament.
If you've watched, um, my, uh, new series, uh, the Dead Sea Scrolls, unapologetically,
you'll learn that prior to the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls, one of the most important
Hebrew manuscripts was a small, uh, piece of part, uh, papyrus, measuring about 10 centimeters
by 20 centimeters, called the Nash papyrus, and it dated back to about the first century BC,
and it contains texts of, uh, Exodus chapter 20 and Deuteronomy, uh, chapter five, uh, which is,
uh, the two versions of the Ten Commandments, or I should say two of the versions of the Ten
Commandments. So, but this is it, right? There was this, this huge gap from like the Nash papyrus,
and it's just this one fragment. It has just these, this handful of texts on it written in Hebrew.
Uh, there's this huge gap of about a thousand years before you get to, uh, things like the Aleppo
Codex or the Leningrad Codex, which were, you know, complete Hebrew manuscripts of the Old Testament.
Uh, the Dead Sea Scrolls, when the Dead Sea Scrolls were discovered, what was so remarkable
about them was that suddenly we have literally dozens and dozens of copies of just about every
single book that appears in the Hebrew Bible or the Old Testament. And this was, uh, this was very
exciting for, uh, many Christians, many evangelical Christians, in large part because the belief was
that these provide validation about the stability of the textual transmission, uh, from this, this
period prior to, uh, Jesus and contemporary with Jesus all the way up through the Middle Ages and
to what survives in the Aleppo Codex or the Leningrad Codex, which is the text that all, uh,
modern translations are based upon. So it was, it was an incredibly, uh, significant find,
um, in that we found, as I said, there's, there's literally dozens and dozens of copies
of texts from the Bible. There's, you know, copies of books of Isaiah, Ezekiel, Jeremiah, Genesis,
1st and 2nd Samuel, Exodus, um, you know, the 12 prophets, they're all in there. The only thing
that was not in the Dead Sea Scrolls from, uh, our collection of the Old Testament is the book of
Esther. And the reason Esther was not discovered was the, the, the people who collected this
literature. The reason they didn't care about Esther is because they were, they were super
fanatical about the calendar, uh, properly recognizing the, the calendar for, which for
them was a solar calendar as opposed to the more, uh, commonly recognized Jewish lunar calendar.
Um, but they were also really, they had a really big heart on for festivals. Um, but certain
festivals and they did not celebrate Chanukah and they did not celebrate Purim. Uh, and which,
which is why, uh, there was no Esther and there was no Maccabees in the, uh, in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
But what's really interesting is that on top of biblical texts or so-called biblical texts,
I mean, the biblical texts only comprise maybe at the most, uh, 15 to 20 percent of the whole
collection. Whoa. Really? Yeah. So what's, what are the- What else is in there? Yeah. What else is
in there? Oh, so what else could be? Uh, because remember, remember Jesus said, if everything,
if everyone wrote down everything that he did in his life, he would fill every book in the world.
So I imagine- That's right. Yeah. Um, wow. So, yeah. So two questions. There's nothing Christian
in there, is there? It's only the Hebrew Bible, right? Just the Hebrew Bible. There have been,
there have been suggestions. There was, uh, um, I'm going to get his first name wrong because,
you know, the rye is flowing. Uh, but there was a scholar by the name of Carmen Yacht who, um,
who suggested that there was, uh, there was some, some of the Greek fragments. Uh, there's a very
small, uh, um, number of fragments of Greek manuscripts. Um, I should say that too. Most
of the Dead Sea Scrolls are written in Hebrew, but there's a whole lot that are written in Aramaic
and there's a very, there's a handful that are written in Greek. Um, almost all the Greek manuscripts
came from one cave and that's cave seven. And, um, I think there is, there's still some questions
to be answered as to whether or not this is even part of the same collection or if this is just a
happenstance thing, right? Proximity of the rest of it. So it just sort of got lumped in together
with it. Um, so one of the fragments that came out of cave, uh, seven, a scholar by the name of
Carmen Yacht attempted to reconstruct it and, and suggested that this was a very, very early
copy of the Book of Mark. Um, this has been demonstrated to, uh, be false. It's, uh, Swiftsea
is correct. It is, uh, almost probably first Enoch. Um, so, but that's, that's it. I will say though
that one of the remarkable things about, uh, the Dead Sea Scrolls is the amount of, um, information
uh, that it provides with regards to the background of Christianity. One of the things that we see
in the collection are, um, you know, ideas about the, uh, apocalyptic ideas and messianic ideas in
particular that look very, very similar to the sorts of things that you read, uh, throughout the
New Testament. So, uh, the Dead Sea Scrolls have been incredibly helpful to New Testament scholars
for helping to, uh, ground, uh, the, uh, this idea of Jesus as an apocalyptic, as an apocalyptic
Jewish prophet, uh, because suddenly lots of these things that, that appear throughout the
New Testament, which at once were thought to be novel or actually, you know, reflected in the
writings of this, uh, this Jewish community that we identify as the Kumron Essenes. Um, there's been
questions as to whether or not Jesus or perhaps even John the Baptist were members of the Essenes
or of even, even knew this community at Kumron. I don't think we can go that far, but what I think,
uh, we can say is that lots of the, the, the so-called non-biblical, and we can get into that,
so-called non-biblical writings, uh, in the Dead Sea Scrolls, uh, certainly reflect a,
a zeitgeist, uh, with which a, sort of a, a, a milieu of, of thinking that, uh, that early
Christianity and, and in particular the movement of Jesus would have fit seamlessly into. So, um,
they have been called, uh, the most important discovery, the most important, uh, manuscript
discovery of the 20th century. And I, I think that is, that is, uh, not an exaggeration. Uh,
they, they shifted, uh, from a text critical perspective, they shifted our entire knowledge
base about the Hebrew text of the Old Pet Testament back a thousand years or more.
Whoa. Whoa. Right. And then they provided, uh, this window into first century Judaism.
Um, one of the, the, the really neat things about, about the Dead Sea Scrolls is that while this was
a collection of literature that belonged to a group of Jews we identify as the Essenes,
they also provide information about other Jewish groups as well. They were, they were in this,
this fierce, um, uh, they were fiercely critical of the Pharisees, for example.
And we see, we, we see this dialogue that they had, you know, with the Pharisees intact, preserved,
uh, within the Dead Sea Scrolls. We know that this group was disenfranchised from,
uh, the Jerusalem Temple establishment, which was controlled by the Satechites or the, the
Sadducees. So within the Dead Sea Scrolls manuscripts, we see reflections of the,
you know, snapshots really of, uh, Sadducee and thinking and theology, but, you know, from
the perspective of one of their opponents. So I mean, it's just, it's, it's a treasure trove
of information about the Bible, about the New Testament, about Christianity, about, about Jesus.
I, I have, I have a bunch of, um, questions about that. Um, but I first want to read out the,
these, um, comment. What does Dr. Kipp think of biblical archeology review? I've subscribed
for many years and find they are surprisingly unbiased and will point to archeological finds
that can test biblical record. Um, I think it's, I mean, it's a very, it's a very, very good
publication. I think, uh, in particular for lay people, it's easily the best publication of its
kind, popularizing, um, quote, biblical archeology. That's the one. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, it was founded
and for years it was edited by Herschel Shanks. Um, and, uh, he was an interesting guy. Uh,
I know that more recently it was, um, it was the editor in chief of the biblical archeology,
the biblical archeology review was, um, was Robert Cargo, who was excellent. I'm not sure if he's
still in that position anymore or not, but, uh, by and large, uh, there's a lot of good stuff
in, uh, biblical archeology review. Now, having said that, uh, there are times when you'll encounter
an article, um, or an editorial that, that tends towards, uh, something that is, this is a little
bit more confessional. Um, but a lot of that has to do with, uh, with the fact that a huge number
of the, uh, the subscriber base for bar, BAR is, uh, is this, uh, yeah. Like this group, right?
Christian event. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you so much, D, for the super chat. That's a, that's a
very generous chat. I really appreciate it. Um, uh, so, so, okay. So, um, you've got big brain,
like your big bottle of whiskey. I've got small brain, small bottle of whiskey. Um, when, uh, so
I'm just going to try and rephrase a lot of what you said. So are you saying that, that there were
groups, um, in, so, so you're saying that like the, the, the texts show that some of the things
that we thought about Jesus that were novel. So like, um, I don't know, his apocalyptic style of
preaching or whatever it is. Like, can you maybe go into detail about like, what do we think was
novel about Jesus until we found the Dead Sea Scrolls? And then what does that say about Jesus?
Once we know that what he was doing wasn't super novel. I mean, I imagine that there wasn't too
many people who were being resurrected. Um, or was there?
There were a lot, I would say there, that it wasn't all that uncommon. What Jesus was doing
was not all that uncommon. And what Jesus was preaching was not all, I'm talking about the
historical Jesus here. Yeah. Yeah. What he was preaching was, was, was right within the,
uh, within the, the Jewish milieu, uh, the Roman, Palestinian Jewish milieu. There were,
we know of, uh, a good number of failed Jewish messiahs who look, I would say, um,
very much like what the historical Jesus looked like. Now, getting to the historical Jesus is a
little bit more challenging because it's under layers of, you know, um, post-Pauline Christian
tradition. Uh, but that's another, that's another story. So I'll just give you, yeah, we won't talk
to them. Uh, so, um, so I'll give you an example. Um, so in, um, there's a story, uh, I believe it's
in the Gospel of Luke. It might be in, in all the synoptics, but I know for sure it's in Luke.
There's a story of, uh, John the Baptist. Uh, he goes to prison and when he's in prison,
uh, he dispatches some of his followers to go and ask Jesus, um, are you the one
that we've been waiting for? Or should we go, should we, you know, forget about you and go and
look for someone else? And Jesus says to John's followers, respond to John and tell him this,
uh, the blind are receiving sight, uh, the, uh, the deaf are hearing again, the lame are walking,
the, uh, the dead are rising and the, uh, the poor are having the good news preach to them.
What he's basically doing is he's, he's conflating, uh, a series of individual
prophecies out of different parts of the book of Isaiah together.
He's giving a momentum. He's giving a momentum. I mean, he's basically saying, he's saying yes,
right? Or the implication is yes, because the implication is all these things are happening,
right? Yeah. But he couches it as any good rabbi would, um, in first century Judaism within this
cryptic, um, set of scriptures, uh, something rabbi still do. Uh, and I have some stories about that,
but, um, so he, he couches it in this, in this, this cryptic collection of individual prophecies
from different parts of the book of Isaiah. And there was a time that New Testament scholars
looked at that and said, that's novel, right? That this, this weight of conflating these
materials out of the book of Isaiah, we don't see this in the Mishnah, which is the later, uh,
collection of, um, materials from the rabbis, which were put together sometime after the second
century. Uh, we don't see it there. Um, it's hard to, it's hard to fit all these individual
little bits of scripture together, um, you know, from the book of Isaiah itself. We don't see it
in other known texts of, you know, from Judaism that we have things like Ben-Sirah, or first
Enoch, or Jubilees. Um, so this looks novel. Uh, one of the remarkable finds in the Dead Sea Scrolls
was a manuscript, uh, labeled 4Q521. And what that means, the Q means kumron. Um, I'm making a Q
with my fingers very badly. That's not, that's not a Q. I don't know what this is. Um, so. Well,
that's also, isn't that the, isn't that the symbol for us? Okay. It's not like the white national
symbol as well. Like, okay, it's okay to be wired or something. I don't know, man. God, so be careful.
Careful. Yeah. Terrible things happen when you drink rye. Yeah. Um, okay. So it came from,
I'll just, I'll just, I'll just spell this out for you. So this manuscript is the 521st
Identifiable Manuscript from this one cave, cave four, which was the fourth cave discovered.
So it's 4Q521. Um, and in it is, in Hebrew, a collection of the exact same verses that,
oh no, we're going to get canceled, aren't we? Yeah. So it's a collection of the exact same verses
that Jesus, uh, uh, repeated to, uh, John the Baptist, John the Baptist disciple. So what this
shows to us is that he is speaking the language and he's right within the, uh, like the, the,
the parlance within the, within the religious, uh, milieu of his people, of his period. It's,
it's, I would say it's actually quite strong, uh, support for, you know,
historical roots to this movement, whatever they were. I think they were quite Jewish.
Um, yeah. So I mean, that's, that's one thing. There's a whole bunch of other stuff too, but
you know, that's just one example. I do remember that, um, that's like, I remember, I don't know,
I've been trying to find it. And if someone knows, I've mentioned this a couple of times now, but
that I remember reading somewhere, like some philosophy that was older than Jesus that
referenced the love of money is the readable evil. And I was like, what? And I was like, I
thought that was like a, like an original Jesus quote, right? But, um, apparently it's not. Um,
well, I'm still looking into that. If anyone has the answer to that, because like, yeah, that's,
it's, it's why there's a lot of, um, you know, this isn't super your realm of expertise, but there's
a lot of, um, like platonic ideas in the Christian literature. Is that, is that right? Or, um,
yeah, I don't know. Uh, probably I would assume so.
You know, when I was, when I was a, when I was a third year, when I was a third year PhD student,
I bought my copy of, uh, of Nestle Allen 27th edition, which is a great new testament. Um,
my, uh, my Dr. Father looked at me with, uh, with, with an expression of extreme disappointment
and said to me, what are you doing with that? So why are you reading? Okay. But so I don't,
yeah, I, uh, but, so I, uh, one, I wanted to say one more thing, maybe, maybe one of the most famous,
uh, things that, that is attributed to Jesus as the Sermon on the Mount, the Beatitudes,
they're in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Really? As reference to Jesus or? No. As a collection of, uh, of wisdom sayings.
Sorry. Wait. The most famous, hang on. Sorry. Hang on. I'm just trying to,
how much whiskey have I drunk? Did I just, so you're saying that one of the most famous
like preachers by Jesus, there's record of that before Jesus's time? Yes.
No. Yeah. Really? So yeah, but that's, I didn't learn that at ministry college.
What? No. Really? I'm shocked, I tell you.
Um, wow, that's, that's, that's crazy. Um, yeah, that's playing my mind.
But it's super exciting too. Um, I think it's super exciting.
Yeah, it is. It's, it's one of these things that me, you know, it helps, I think it helps us to
understand Jesus quite a bit, but it, it certainly helps us to understand that the people who wrote
and put together the New Testament, um, were drawing from like Jewish source material.
Like they were right there within the guts of, uh, of, uh, of early Judaism.
So, you know, it's a, you know, it's interesting. Albert Schweitzer, who, um, was a very famous
New Testament scholars in the, in the 1920s and the 1930s, uh, really pushed the idea.
He's sort of the, the father of the, um, excuse me, the historical Jesus movement.
And he's the one who really pushed this idea of Jesus as a, as an apocalyptic Jewish, uh,
prophet. Um, and he was writing in the 1930s. And then, um, after the Dead Sea Scrolls were
discovered, it was just like, yeah, like Schweitzer was right about all this stuff.
I, I, I feel, um, I'm with, um, Stacey here and I'll be on, uh, Stacey's podcast this week.
Um, so everyone look out for that. That'll be a good one. But, um, I, I'm with Stacey in that.
Like I, I feel like I need to go and sit down and like, and like re, reexamine my whole
perspective. Cause even like, I'm, you know, I, I don't, I'm a non-theist. I don't, I don't
subscribe to the idea of God anymore, but that's incredible that Jesus, the Beatitudes were in
the Dead Sea Scrolls, or at least I should probably, I need to qualify that a little bit
in that it's not a, like it's not a carbon copy. Yeah. Yeah. Of course. But it's, you know, when
you read, when you read the, uh, the, the Hebrew collection, which is in the, the manuscript is
called four Q, which means it came from K four, four Q Beatitudes. It's in the 400s there somewhere.
Um, and I think there's, there's six or seven of them. These are all very fragmentary, right?
So we don't have, we have almost no complete manuscripts. We have a few, um, but most of them
are just like fragments. Um, so there's, there's like six or seven of these. Uh, yeah, there you go.
Um, you see, I don't know if anyone on the website, I feel like it, I don't, I feel like most of us,
he wouldn't read Hebrew. So you could just be telling us like, Oh yeah, Star Wars is in there.
Every James Cameron. Yeah. Okay. Um, I did want to shout out to, as we continue this conversation,
we might go a little over time if that's okay. Um, Dr. Kill, um, because we spent so much time,
but you saw how big this bottle is, right? Yeah. We got a lot to go. Yeah. We can do like a little
time lapse of it, just like dwindling down. Um, so we have had three new patrons, um, which are
so surprised that Aaron, Aaron pledged $50. Thank you so much, Aaron. That's a lot. And thank you so
much D for subscribing and Nicholas and digital homerambia. Guys, we only have like for the, uh,
if you want to become a saint, we've only got five spots left. I think, um, I might be
cake loving that wrong. The whiskey's kidding me, but, um, but if you want to, if you want to get,
you want to become a canonized to deep drinks disciple and help this channel, um, I greatly
appreciate it. Uh, and of course this would be a great time to mention that you also, um, have a
patron, uh, if people want to go support your work. And I mean, come on, like you have, I think
someone was a Dr. Josh said, like we have like a, a bonafide Hebrew Bible scholar. Um, who's just
like, you're just putting out work at the moment. You're all, you're going on so many people's shows
and you know, if you want to come support, um, keep Davis and, uh, uh, Dr. Keep Davis and help him,
uh, you know, turn this, uh, into a, into a full-time job, um, go support, go to bottom
over here and patron and subscribe to, if I could, uh, if I could say something about this, um,
I'm, I'm, you know, I, I don't know if I'm, I'm, I'm the best, um, benefactor to my patrons,
because we do, we do, uh, I do, uh, like a monthly live hangout with, uh, with my top tier
and you get, uh, early access to my videos, but because they take a long time to make, I, I can
usually only make one a month. Um, so you're not getting a lot of that kind of stuff out of it,
but something that I am doing, um, and if people are interested in this sort of thing and, and,
and in supporting this kind of stuff is I am, I am an active scholar. Um, I am actively working on,
uh, editions of the Dead Sea Scrolls, uh, for publication, um, which is, is not something
anybody is paying me for, but, uh, I do because I love to do it. And if, um, you know, if you're
interested in supporting real scholarship, uh, this is a good way to do it. Um, I'm going to be
doing more of these sorts of projects. I'm working with some, some things with, uh, uh, a good friend
of mine, uh, and somebody who's going to be on the, uh, upcoming slavery panel, uh, Dr. Matthew
Monger, the famous Dr. Mote, uh, you know, we're doing some things together that's, that's going to
produce actual, uh, academic, uh, content. Uh, and then, you know, this, this, the, I should say too,
the, uh, the Dead Sea Scrolls Unapologetically series, which is what I'm working on now,
is a massive, massive project. It's going to take a very long time, uh, and a lot of work to finish.
Um, so if, if you're, you're interested in, in, in supporting something like that,
uh, that's what's going on. So yeah, I've, I've been devouring, as you can see, I've watched
these two videos. Um, I, I watch it, I watch it as I, so I watch it, I get excited because
before I go to bed each night, I'll, I'll throw an episode on or one of your episodes or interviews
with MythVision and I'll, I'll just, um, I'll watch it for about 20 minutes until I fall to sleep.
And then I'll just continue watching. I'm easy to fall asleep too.
No, it's, it's, uh, it's whenever I find something interesting,
I find something interesting. That's what I do. Uh, but yeah, go, go support, you know, we're,
we're, um, we're all trying to, um, to, I guess, get this kind of information out there. Um,
you know, you're, you're doing amazing, like, kind of stuff and you're an active scholar.
It's awesome. Myself, I'm, I'm trying to, I'm really kind of communicated this enough, I guess,
but I'm trying to, um, kind of have deep conversations and broaden people's perspectives
on not just biblical scholarship and, and atheism and things like that, but like
other perspective, other religious perspectives and other things as well. Um, and to, to kind of,
I guess, um, show that we can have conversations with people we disagree with and it can still be
okay. Um, so yeah, guys, go support, um, keep Davidson subscribed to his YouTube channel and
subscribe to this YouTube channel, um, as we continue to kick ass with, um, some really cool,
exciting things coming up. Um, so, uh, I did actually, I'm wondering where we should go in
this interview because there is something that has like popped into my mind that I, I really feel
I want to ask you about and it's kind of a pivot and maybe we can pivot to this and pivot back
to the DC scrolls, but what are your, what are your thoughts on, and I know you have thoughts
on this, but what are your thoughts on the documentary hypothesis? Oh, um, so the documentary
hypothesis is, uh, like it's sort of the standard model for, um, how to read and interact with,
uh, certainly the first five books of the Old Testament, that's Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus,
Numbers and Deuteronomy. Um, but it really does also, uh, provide a framework for reading, uh,
almost the whole, uh, Old Testament. Now, I have, I know that for probably 20 years now,
evangelicals have been proclaiming the death of the documentary hypothesis. Um,
um, you know, I, oh yeah, sorry, I got distracted by this. I saw the, I saw the, the name
Yeah. Digital Hammurabi. I just had to interrupt you there. He's, he's complaining that, um,
that we're ignoring his question. Um, I'm sorry. Um, and because you're a Patreon supporter,
I'm going to bring it up, but did everyone see how these two atheists dodge my, my comment about
keeps out of failure to debunk Joe, um, Dr. Joel Edmond Anderson. Brilliance. Um,
Dr. Joel handed me my ass today on Twitter. It just, yeah. Is he the one that called you a simp?
No. Somebody called you a simp. That was, somebody called me a simp and a retard. The same guy called
me a simp. Oh, well, that's not cool. And then he called me a retard. Is this that Christian? Is
this Christian dude who was, um, defending, um, David Folk? Yeah, probably. Uh, uh, yeah,
we don't need to talk about him. So, um, now what I, what I will say about the documentary
hypothesis for people who don't know, um, the documentary hypothesis was, was introduced by,
by Julius Wellhausen in German back in the, uh, in the 19th century. And, you know, when you get to
the, to the, the PhD level, uh, of doing any biblical scholarship, one of the things that
I believe almost everybody has to do is read, uh, Wellhausen in German. Uh, his, his, um, um,
Geschista, oh shoot, I've had too much, I've had too much right to remember the German title of the book.
Um, but, uh, but this was, this was really the book that, uh, the publication that, that
launched, uh, modern critical biblical scholarship. And Wellhausen's theory, his idea was that, you
know, there's all these, he started by looking at all these, uh, what we call doublets or in some
cases triplets. These are repeated stories, uh, throughout, or, or, or events, uh, throughout
the Pentateuch, you know, um, Abraham, uh, having to, uh, claim that, uh, Sarah is his sister when
he enters a foreign country is something that happens twice. And then it is repeated a third
time with, uh, with, um, um, Isaac and Rebecca. Um, the, uh, the story of Hagar and Ishmael is
something that's repeated twice. Uh, there's two creation accounts. Uh, there's two, there's three
versions of the Ten Commandments. There's, um, uh, I believe there's two versions of the, uh,
the theophany of, uh, Yahweh to Moses. There's, you know, there's, there's all these,
these repetitions of material throughout the Torah. So he, he noticed this. I mean, people have
noticed this for a long time and say, well, that's kind of weird. Um, and people have also noticed
for a long period of time that throughout, uh, the Hebrew Bible, there's, there's a number of
titles that are applied to God, but the two most consistent ones are Yahweh and Elohim.
And, uh, Wellhausen, um, and Graf, uh, another German scholar formulated this, really are the
ones who, who wrote this up and formulated this idea that, you know, there's actually, uh, the
Torah was not written by Moses. Um, but it was actually, you know, written much later. Um, and
it's actually, uh, compiled from four earlier documents. Uh, and he labeled these, uh, first
the Yahweh's document. And these are all, uh, texts where the name Yahweh is revealed right
away. And this is what people call God right from the time of Adam. They call them Yahweh.
The Elohim's document, uh, which is one where Yahweh's name is a secret until the time of Moses,
and it's revealed to Moses, um, in Exodus. So, and then there's, there's, uh, material that he
identified as P belonging to a priestly editor. And this is most of the book of Leviticus, but
huge sections throughout the Torah, which look like editorial, um, comments or attempts to
combine, uh, these earlier two sources belong to P. For example, the, the story of creation
in Genesis chapter one is generally regarded as a priestly, um, a priestly, a part of the priestly
document. Um, and then D or basically the book of Deuteronomy, which on its own is a very,
very interesting book and, um, is connected directly to the reforms of Josiah, the religious
reforms of Josiah in, uh, I believe it's, it's, uh, um, 620. I'm probably going to get this wrong,
but I think it's 623, uh, BCE. So Wellhausen basically said that these, all these sources,
you know, were written during the monarchy, the monarchy period, like the, the, the time from
David up to Josiah. And then after the Babylonian exile, they were all put together and combined
into the Torah that we know. So I quite, I quite like the idea because I like how, um,
I think it, it provides that now any theory has its issues, its problems, its, its, its drawbacks.
So I'm not married to the documentary hypothesis, but I particularly like it because I think it
makes the most pragmatic sense of the material that is in the Old Testament. Um, I like how,
how, um, I like how this, how you can tease out individual sources, uh,
and, and make sense of, of the connections between them using the documentary hypothesis. There are
other ideas too. There's, there's the, the supplementary hypothesis is very popular, uh,
predominantly in Europe, which is this idea that there was, there was an earlier core of material
that just generally expanded in group. Um, there's something called the two source theory,
which is this, uh, this idea that, uh, there were traditions that were collected by the Northern
Kingdom, uh, that we know is Israel. This is all, you know, during the, uh, like ninth, eight, seventh
centuries BCE and the Southern Kingdom Judah that were kind of thrown together, uh, during the
Babylonian exile. And I will say that I think that on various levels, all of these theories have it
right. I think that, that, you know, there were, there was an early core of material that was
expanded. I think there probably were individual documents, maybe four of them. And I think that
that some of this material you can, you can tease out and separate between stuff that belong to the
Northern Kingdom and the Southern Kingdom. So all of these ideas have lots going for them. They all
have merit. I don't think they, they all hold a monopoly on what actually happened, but I think
they all contribute to our understanding of what actually happened. So, sorry.
I have this book. No, that's great. I have this book. It's, uh,
Oh yeah, that's a great book. The Bible with the sources.
Reveal. It was one of, yeah, it was one of these books that I purchased with all my pocket money,
put on my shelf and never got around to reading yet. Oh, but, but it's, uh, I gotta turn this light
off. So the, um, Freedman does like a, like a 30, 40 page introduction there that you absolutely
must read in that book about the, uh, about the, the sources and the evidence for it.
But this is a fantastic book because basically what he's done is he's, he's pulled apart,
um, all the individual sources and he's color coded them.
Uh, so you can see them at the top, at the top here. It's got the, I don't know if that's like
focusing, but it's got the different sources. Yeah. And you, so you can, you can read,
you can read it in, in like, oh, this is from this scroll and this is from this scroll, but source.
Yeah. Oh, it's a great book. It's a great book. And I don't know. I mean, I tend to,
I tend to follow Freedman more often than not in terms of, of how I, I divide the material.
Um, but this is the thing too. And I think people, people get confused when it comes to
scholarship is we don't all agree about everything, right? Um, but the really important thing is to,
to contribute ideas that expand our understanding of the ancient world. And I mean, this is
basically what I, you know, this is what Freedman is doing. You know, he's thrown this out there
and he's got all up a shit ton of good ideas about how to think about the source material.
Um, and yeah, people are picking it apart. And the reason they're picking it apart is because
it's damn good. Right. I mean, you don't, you don't read stuff and you don't critique it unless you
find it interesting and compelling. Yeah. Good people asked a, um, good people asked a good
question. And everyone, if you super chat, of course, we'll answer, we'll read every super chat,
but how fluid is the Old Testament text? The fluidity consists of what? How do they change
and corrupt the texts? Are there any forgeries and historical errors?
So I have to say that I think that that I've, I've answered this question probably about five or
six times in different streams, uh, from the same guy in, uh, in Indonesia. And I don't mind
doing it. It's fine. Um, I'm just a little mystified that, uh, that I keep answering this
question over and over again. Um, how fluid was the Old Testament text? Uh, so right up until,
uh, probably the period of the Maserites, which is like fifth century CE, um, like the 500s,
I would say quite fluid. Um, prior to the destruction of the temple of Herod, I would say
very fluid. And by that, I mean that, uh, there were multiple versions of the Old Testament text,
and we know this from the Dead Sea Scrolls, because one of the remarkable things that we
discovered in the Dead Sea Scrolls are individual copies side by side of different versions of
the same book. Um, and then on top of that, there are manuscripts, there are texts that don't fit
our categories of what scholars identify as scripture. So scholars have thrown out, uh,
different names for them that like reworked Pentateuch or, excuse me, paraphrase of, uh,
paraphrase of Kings or Apocryphon of Jeremiah or Apocryphon of Joshua. I did my PhD dissertation
on the Apocryphon of Jeremiah. So all that to say that in this period, uh, prior to the destruction
of, uh, Herod's temple, the second temple, excuse me, I should have grabbed some water.
But, uh, prior to the destruction of Herod's temple, the text, there were all sorts of versions.
There doesn't seem to have been a standard version. Everybody kind of had their own favorites,
and there's so many of them that things that, uh, we don't recognize today as versions probably were,
uh, a form of scripture, sacred scripture for some people. Uh, the fluidity consists of what?
It consists of just about everything. Um, there are rewritings and there are alternative versions
of just about everything in the Old Testament that survive in the Dead Sea Scrolls,
as well as in other early Jewish literature. How did they change and corrupt the texts in various
ways? Um, scribes were, uh, and readers of the texts at the time of Jesus, uh, would, uh, leave out
things that they found inconvenient. They would clarify things that they found difficult, and, uh,
they would expand on things that they found to be incomplete. And we see examples of all of this
throughout the Dead Sea Scrolls. Uh, how did they change and corrupt the texts? I think corruption
is a battle. I, I don't like the word corrupt because what this fails to do is this fails to
appreciate really the whole program of, uh, early Jewish scripture, Exodus, Jesus. This is just what
you did with the text. If you took this text seriously as a Jew living in the first century BCE,
that meant that you were constantly renegotiating it. You weren't slavishly committed to every
individual letter. No, you were much more sensible than that. You took it upon yourself to use your
brain and to make the text meaningful for your circumstances. So it's, they're not corruptions.
They are, um, honest and sincere attempts to grapple with and understand and apply the text to
what's going on now. Uh, are there forgeries and historical error in antiquity? Um, forgery in
the terms of Suddepikrva, which means, um, false writing, we certainly have something that we see,
uh, taking place, uh, with regularity. And this stretches all the way back into biblical text.
I mean, we see this in the book of Deuteronomy. We see this in the book of, uh, Daniel. We see this
in things like the Psalms and in Lamentations and in, uh, Coelitor Ecclesiastes. There is this idea
of attribution taking place where texts are deemed important enough that you're going to assign
an author to them. So for example, the book of Lamentations was not written by Jeremiah,
but that did not stop the, uh, somebody, um, whether it was the, the Greek translator,
the Septuagint, or whether it was the copy of the text that he was reading. It didn't stop him
from saying, this was written by Jeremiah. And this is, this is stuff that's, that's the,
the Psalms that are attributed to David weren't written by David or sung by David. Somebody came
along later on and said, I think this is something that David could have said. And one of the reasons
we know that is because we have this remarkable document from Cave 11 at Cumeron called the,
the 11, uh, the 11 Q Psalms Scroll A, which is a collection of Davidic Psalms. Um, but,
and, and it's all the ones that, that you would imagine that, that, that you know from, uh, your,
your, uh, your copies, your translations of, uh, the book of Psalms in your Bible. But in addition
to that, there's stuff that we've never even seen before. Something called the apostrophe of Zion
appears in this manuscript, which is something we've never seen before. And yet this manuscript
says this was spoken by David. So, um, and in terms of historical error, yes, absolutely. And the
reason for that is because most of these texts were written by people hundreds of years after
the events or collected by people hundreds of years after, when, when the events took place.
I, uh, I wanted to ask you, um, so when you're talking about forgeries, would, so I just tweeted
out this, um, this is at Kip Davis and I love Nickelback. Is, would that be considered a forgery?
Oh my God. Or like, am I, because, you know, in, I don't know if that's like considered a forgery
or if that's like, oh my God. No. Yeah. So that, that's an obvious forgery. You know, Nickelback
came from Hannah Alberta. Did you know that they came from, they came from a small little town
in rural Alberta called Hannah, which is not that far away from where I grew up.
You know, but I hate Nickelback. Really? You see, I felt bad about putting Nickelback in it. I don't
think Nickelback, uh, like there's a whole meme about it where it's like they, they, they were,
I guess, Nickelback does not suck. Well, Nickelback, like there are a lot of bands that suck. I think
the problem was that radio stations and everyone were just shoving Nickelback and Nickelback clones
down everyone's throats for so long. Yes. They're probably going like, guys, we're just trying to
play music. Like what? Like it's, it's, it's frustrating. Yeah. So I felt bad about putting
Nickelback, but I couldn't think of another band that would get the meme across. So you brought
this up and it's your fault. Um, but I have to say now that you did that, so I live in a, uh,
I live in a small town just outside of Vancouver. Um, Chad Kruger, who is the lead singer of Nickelback,
uh, lives in the next town over from me in Abbotsford. Um, he, uh, he built a cottage,
uh, out by, uh, another small town close to me called Harrison Mills, which is close to where
I used to work. Um, he doesn't own it anymore, but my wife, um, she used to work at PetSmart.
You, do you guys have PetSmart in Australia? We have, is it like a pet store? We have like a pet.
Yeah. We have pet mart, I think, and pet stop. Okay. American said PetSmart and Canadians have
PetSmart. So my wife used to work at PetSmart and she worked at the, at the Abbotsford location
and, uh, she helped Chad Kruger, um, put together like what he, like a starter kit for his, uh,
his new puppy. Did he hold up a photo, hold up a photo and say, look at this photograph
for the puppy or is that, sorry. Oh God. And fully he had. Um, so, um, oh.
Forturies. Did you want to, did you want to, did you want to talk about fortress?
Yeah. Let's talk about, so you were on the team that actually discovered, or like,
according to the documentary, you look like the main guy. Were you the main guy that
discovered the forgeries that were in the antiquities market for the Dead Sea Scrolls,
or are you just part of the team or? I'm probably the, you know, unfortunately for everybody,
I'm probably the most public facing guy from the team. Um, and so, and it was a team effort.
So I will say, um, so I went to, I'll tell the, should I tell the story? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So, uh, I went to Norway in, uh, 2012. And one of the things that I was doing in Norway
was, uh, working on this. Whoops.
And that, and, and if anyone wants to purchase, purchase that book, they can, but it is a little
pricey and that's thick. Is it? I don't even know. It's big. Yeah. Yeah. It's like $250
for a, for a new strategy. Oh God. So everybody should know, I don't get a dime from this book.
Um, where did it go? Was it here? Along with where this, um, so I went to Norway. There I am.
Back when I had a haircut. Um, is that a fresh haircut? Cause you and Joel look both, both of
you guys look like, like you both look like, all right, we're, we're, we're going on TV. We want
to look our best. Like, look at that. Look, you look so, uh, I think it's, is it Joel or Joe?
I, there's another, I'm going to get the name. Oh, uh, Joe Baden. Yeah. He's in this documentary.
You know, it's funny. We're in this documentary together. I've never met him.
Oh, really? Yeah. The only, the only interaction I've ever had with him is I tweeted out to him
and I said, um, Joel Baden looks like every time he's interviewed, he looks like he's
sick of the interviewer's shit, sick of, um, everyone else's shit, sick of the questions.
Like, and he's got red shit resting sick of everyone's shit face. And he liked it and said,
yeah, I'll have, apparently I'll have a very good. So I was like, cool, cool, cool. He got the,
he got the joke. I wasn't being mean, hard on anything. He seems great, great guy. I'm,
I'm honestly a little annoyed at, uh, Joel Baden because he and Candida Moss wrote this
phenomenal book about, uh, about the Green family and Hobby Lobby and the Museum of the Bible.
Um, but somehow they forgot to interview me for this book. Oh, and I'm a little bitter about
that. But, um, what are you? Well, you know how, you know, how YouTubers are doing like boxing
matches now? Maybe we can set one up with you and Joel. Um, yeah, let's do that. Shall we?
Me and Joel? Whiskey involved. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. You heard it here first. So, okay. Um,
so I was in the middle of telling a story. Uh, so in 2012, I went to Norway and one of the,
to, to do this, uh, I was on a research fellowship at the University of Achter, which is in
the lovely little town of Christians on, on the southern tip of Norway. Um, and one of the projects
that I was working on was the publication of that volume, the, uh, Gleaming's from the Caves, which is
a, the, uh, the private collection of Martin Skuyan. Uh, he has, uh, 32 supposed Dead Sea Scrolls
fragments and some artifacts. He's got things like, um, uh, I should show you this. This is actually
really cool. He's got things like, um, ink wells, uh, bronze ink wells in, uh, that were, that were
found in, um, um, oh, here's, here we go. Yeah. He's got this cool thing. See that? Where is it?
Turn it that way. There we go. That's an ink well. It's a bronze ink well. Uh, I believe that one was
found in, um, Jordan. Uh, it's actually Nabataean. Um, but it's similar to, uh, what we assume, uh,
they were using in Qumran and he's got things like, uh, like this little guy here too. Um,
it's a, uh, it's like a little, a little bronze altar.
Oh. Uh, for offering incense or something from, uh, I think it was, I think it was for a century BCE,
but, um, so he's got a bunch of stuff, uh, as well as these 32 fragments supposedly from the Dead Sea
Scrolls. Um, and I was, I was a post-doc, uh, working in Norway at, and one of the things that,
that I was tasked with doing was helping to publish this collection. So what that meant was I got to
go over to, um, Martin Skoyans vault. It's literally a vault. It's like the walls are like a foot and
a half thicker, you know, uh, 80 centimeters thick or whatever it is. Uh, and it's filled
with like crazy amazing things. Like he's got, Martin Skoyans is an eclectic collector who has
like one of the finest collections of early Buddhist manuscripts. He's got like shelves full
of folios from the Vatican. Um, he's got like antique Russian Bibles from the 13th and 14th
centuries. Um, he's got, uh, like actual material culture from like Nebuchadnezzar's Babylon. Uh,
he has these, these amazing stone vessels like, like cups and plates that have, they're made of
stone and they're polished and then they have embossed on them in gold leaf, uh, like the name
of Cyrus, um, which supposedly came from like the royal holdings of Cyrus the Great. Like he's got
and in addition, he's got like, uh, actual letters written by, uh, Beatrix Potter, who, uh,
wrote the, uh, Peter Rabbit series and actual artwork from her. And he has the draft copy,
uh, the copy that J.K. Rowling actually sent to the publisher, uh, of the Philosopher's Stone.
Oh, wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Yeah. So this is all, this is all in this room, right? In this,
in this bowl. It's full of this shit. I love that the Philosopher's Stone is up there with like
all that. I know, right? Yeah. It's very fitting. Yeah. Um, so, and he has 32 of these fragments
that we're supposed to, um, analyze and edit and publish. Um, so I arrived in 2012. Uh, by 2013,
the guy who was doing the paleography of Aura started to raise some concerns about the way
that some of the fragments looked, uh, just on the basis of his analysis of the script. And from
that point, um, my close colleague and good friend, Orstine Eustnes, who teaches at the University
of Octor and myself, started to look much more critically at the fragments that's going ahead
and started to develop and, and collect, uh, like a catalog of individual scribble features that we,
we thought were unusual. Things like letters that seem to be unusually shaped
for the period in which they were written, letters that appear on edges of the fragments that appear
to have been like squeezed onto the fragment as opposed to have survived from a larger manuscript,
lines of texts that were out of alignment with one another and which actually aligned with, uh,
contours of the fragment and, uh, very convenient.
Yeah, I was going to ask about this. Yeah. It wasn't there. It wasn't there an amazing, like,
someone had somehow on one scroll, somehow justified putting two of the anti-elder, like,
homosexual, uh, scriptures in one spot because they just knew the, uh, that there was someone out
there that would want that in, you know, the original heaver. Oh, yeah. Amazing. So this was,
so this was, this was not part of the Schoian collection, but I mean, there's a few of these
Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary. This is a Pacific University,
or two institutions in particular, Museum of the Bible. These were, they were all buying
these fragments in addition to Schoian. Um, and I attended a, uh, uh, like a, like a, uh,
a session at the Society of Biblical Literature in San Francisco, um, in 2000, that would have
been 2011, uh, where Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary had, like, this whole
panel about their fragments that they had purchased. Um, and this was one of the fragments. It's,
it's four lines, and they're four lines from Leviticus, Chapter 18 and Chapter 22, these,
these passages about, you know, how terrible homosexuality is. But the remarkable thing is,
of it is that the first two lines on the fragment are Chapter 22, and the latter two lines are
Chapter 18. So they're like in a different order, right? And it's clearly like, if you think that
this is an ancient fragment, your, your interpretation at the outset is that this is a, this is a
collection of something like proof texts or something, right? Which right away, if you know
anything about early Judaism, you think, well, that's just utterly ridiculous because why on earth
would a, why on earth would a first century Jew put together like proof texts about homosexuality
in Judea? Like it just doesn't make any sense. Um, but the, uh, when Southwestern Baptist purchased
this particular fragment, which was back in, uh, 2010, um, they said, and this is, this is published
in an article by, um, um, uh, Estrin, uh, he said that, uh, he interviewed one of the, one of the
people from the team and the guy said that they paid a lot more for this fragment compared to the
other eight fragments that they purchased because quote, this fragment attests to an eternal truth
from God's word. Yeah. Right. Yeah. I, it's, it's, it's funny that you say the eternal, because
the, the, uh, when I promoted this stream, I said, um, does the Dead Sea Scrolls prove that the
universe had a creator and that was like from a, that was like a, yeah. So wasn't there like a,
there was some, someone shared a video on Twitter where it was like someone who was like,
this proves that God's real. And I was like, and I think you shared it just as like, does it? Like,
but something, something I found super cool about, um, the, the smoking gun in the, in this
documentary is you talk about, you find these things like, okay, this looks, this looks too
suspicious. And, and we're not talking, by the way, everyone, we're not talking about like,
you know, um, Dr. Kips in the cave and like pulls out the, the, the, the, um, scrolls out of the dirt
and goes, something's fishy here. We're talking about an antiquities market where they're selling
fragments, um, to people. And, uh, and, and whether or not these fragments are legitimate or not was
the questioning that we were concerned that, that, that they were concerned with. So, um,
you start noticing these things, but the, the smoking gun for me and the thing that was really
cool was the salts. So because of the area that, that they, you know, you guys found these, the,
these, they were not you guys, sorry. How long ago was it? Were you probably not even alive at
that time? I was like in fifties or something they were found or the, when the original scrolls
were found, the original scrolls were found between 1947 and 1953, maybe as late as 1960.
Okay. Yeah. So you weren't like there. No, I was not. So, so yeah, you, you, you analyze these,
these salt because the air had like a lot of salt in it being next to the dead sea.
And you know, some of these salt would crystallize on the surface of the scrolls
and you analyze it versus what you, what we now know, like forgeries and the, the, they put salts
on, they put like table salts on the, um, crazy, right? Can you tell us a little bit about that?
Yeah, absolutely. Oh, so these are what, what David is showing you now. Oh, look at that handsome guy.
Um, so, uh, that picture, oh God. So this, this fragment here that you see, this is what table
salt looks like at a molecular level. This is what it looks like, what salt looks like naturally
when it's, when it's on like a, when it, when it occurs in nature. And what we discovered,
um, so we had, we had huge suspicions about a number of these fragments and
my good friend, uh, an amazing colleague, Orson Usness at the University of Agder.
He's on Twitter. He runs a blog. Um, he's, he heads up this amazing project about, uh, forgeries
and digital imaging and manuscript provenance at the University of Agder. You guys really
need to give him some love. He put together a 22 page memo, um, that we all read through and signed
off on and we delivered it to Martin Skoyan, basically saying, Hey guy, we've put together a
list of, this is the, this is one of Skoyan's fragments here. This is a fragment of the book
of Enoch that is on Papyrus. It's from Enoch 106. Um, we said, Hey man, lots of these fragments
looked like they might not be authentic and here's why. So this is where it all started was with this
memo that Orson put together. Um, and what happened as a result of that is, uh, Mr. Skoyan
gave us permission to take, um, I think it was five of his fragments. We said that there was over 20
that we thought bore, uh, features of what we, we considered to be, uh, likely forgeries.
But he gave us five to take to, um, a special laboratory in Berlin
to have analyzed by an amazing physicist by the name of Ida Rabin. She developed a battery of tests
for the non-invasive tests for these fragments by which to determine whether or not these
are more likely to be authentic or more likely to be forgery. Something that people need to
be clear about is you cannot prove one way or the other that something is authentic or forgery
unless you have found it in situ, like you've actually dug it out of the ground yourself.
Yeah. Yeah. You know, an archeological, um, site, right? So, but none of these fragments,
all of these fragments, you know, that's not where they came from. They, they just, they come with
these wild apocryphal stories of having, you know, been stored in a vault in Switzerland for 30 years
and all of a sudden we took them out and sold them. Yeah. So it's crazy. Um, so, uh, I was actually
given these fragments, uh, to take to Berlin. Uh, so I flew to Berlin with these fragments to give to
uh, Professor Rabin and she worked with, uh, with another amazing, uh,
paparologist by the name of Miriam Crutch. Uh, and they worked through these fragments to, and they
ran them through this battery of tests to determine whether or not they were more likely to be
authentic or more likely to be forgeries. One of the things they discovered, uh, so we had big
great concerns about that, that papyrus fragment of Enoch that you showed, because
the letters on that fragment are like, like they're clearer, but then ink from the letters is like
drifting into the fibers of the papyrus, which is not something that you see
anywhere in any papyrus. And we're like, wow, that's weird. Um, so, uh, and the other thing
that's really interesting about this papyrus fragment as well as a number of other papyrus
fragments is that they are written transversa carta, which basically means when you're in
antiquity, when you're writing on papyrus, papyrus is formed by, by putting together leaves, uh,
like, like gluing them together, one on top of the other, but you cross hatch them
so that the grain of the leaf is always like you, you do one layer horizontally,
then you do another layer vertically, then you do another layer horizontally, and you glue them
together and you press them and you flatten them out. Um, Scribes always wrote on the horizontal
side because it provides like a natural guideline, right? Yeah. Yeah. All of these forgeries are written
transversa carta, which basically means that they're written on the vertical side of the papyrus.
And, and I figured out why I have to say this because this was this, I figured out why because
when you take infrared photographs of papyrus manuscripts, um, they all look like they're
written vertically when they're actually not, they're written horizontally, but because of the,
the light spectra, it does funny things. So in the editions of the just, you know, in the editions
of the Dead Sea Scrolls, which contain papyrus manuscripts, they all look like they were written
transversa carta, but they actually weren't. They were written properly. Whoever forged these
manuscripts was looking at the photographs published in the official editions of the Dead Sea Scrolls
and went, Oh, this is how you write on a papyrus and he got it fucking wrong. And that's how they
all appear. That's so good. I love it. Like just to go to the level of like, you're like,
hmm, I'm going to put salt on these to make sure. So crazy. Okay. Yeah. So, um,
fragments that were discovered from the Dead Sea region are loaded with salt particles at a
microscopic level. You see these great big deposits of naturally occurring, uh, salts.
Um, so somebody went to the trouble of recognizing this. And when he's making his forgery of
a manuscript, he just, he literally took a salt shaker and just sprinkled table salt
on it. And like table salt was, was it, it's refined, right? And it's something that was that,
that we only started refining in like the 1500s or I think it's the 1500s. So like it has a,
it has a very precise chemical composition. So when our physicists went and looked at this fragment
from of Enoch 106 under her microscope, she's like, Holy fuck. There's table salt all over
this thing. And it's not like, and it's not like it was all or was eating his lunch and,
you know, pouring table salt on it. There's actually ink on top of the table salt particles
on the fragment. It's absolutely a smoking gun. There's no question at all. Well, it's more,
hang on. It is possible that the papyrus were put in the caves, you know, for, you know,
1000 years prior and then they're, you're drunk. So guys, if you like Dr. Kim Davis,
you're going to love him in the upcoming panel that we have. I want to shout out a couple things.
So tomorrow we have Nicole Mitchell coming on who went from pasta to porn star.
She, you know, from Dr. Phil, you know, from Dr. Phil, you know her from Jimmy Kimmel.
So this is a, this is a live picture of you watching porn here, right? That's actually,
I forgot the camera was on when that was taken. It was the first time I'd ever seen it because
obviously I would never watch something like that myself. But we do have back to, tune in tomorrow
and it's funny because originally we were drinking coffee, but then she changed her answer because
she's going to be like 5 p.m. for her to an electrolyte drink, like hydrolyte. So
it's actually worked out perfectly because I'll probably need it.
Yeah. It's not whiskey. Yeah. So we have this amazing panel coming up. And guys, we have this
going to be the go to panel for slavery apologetics to, we, I want this, this, this panel to be like,
you know, someone online is telling you that slavery was actually just a big tickle fest and
everyone got to get tickled and their belly rub before they went to sleep and given a hot meal.
And I want you to be able to take a quick from this and just send it straight to them and be like,
shut the fuck up. Basically, we're going to go over the Hebrew Bible, the slavery in the Hebrew
Bible. We're going to go over the Christians, Christianity's reaction to this. We're also going
to be talking about the consequences of this and modern slavery. And we're going to be addressing
all the slavery apologetics and doing the Q&A. It is a huge panel. I spoke to Derek who has
biggest panel ever assembled on the planet Earth.
There's like, I had the people from the do the Nobel Laureate speeches and they called me up
and like, how did you get that panel? I'm like, look, man, I, I made some calls. Actually Dr.
Josh made the calls, but it's actually a bit like, I called up Derek from a vision and he's like,
whoa, he's like, I'm impressed. I'm like, it's all Dr. Josh. He really put it together.
But something I want to give everyone a sneak peek on beforehand is, and this is where I need
your help guys. We got 56 viewers. This is where it gets fun. So the skeptic, he does professional
voiceover work for a living and he was gracious enough to do voiceover work for us for some promotions
that I'm putting out. So I want to directly, let me just, let me just share with you guys
something. I want to directly respond to every single apologetics claim. So Jordan Peterson,
Ben Shapiro, Mark Winger, Frank Turek, just a lot, right? So I just want to show you,
show you guys something. So probably phrase I am that I am.
So we have the slavery. Yeah, just the ones that have a following that the ones that are
making a difference to people. So you can see here, we have categories, right? And look at this.
We have 28 pages of notes. This is just quotes from apologists about slavery. So someone from
my discord, Tib and I have been going through this. You can see we got a quote here from Doug
Wilson. And then you can click right to the video and it goes through. You can see like we've just
we're being very systematic about making sure we fit every category of argument into this.
Tib here has made every category into its own like section and then given examples of what
people say in those sections. So what we've done is I've taken these, these arguments and I've
been making little trailers. And this week, as deep drinks as a community, we're going to go on
Twitter or wherever else is just as toxic as Twitter. And we're going to tweak these videos
out to these apologists to make them make them know that the five horsemen of the five Bible
Bible scholar horsemen are coming for them. So this is this is a little clip. So what I've done
is I've taken taken a 15 seconds each. I might have some might have to be longer, but I've taken
a section of what someone has said about slavery, how they've tried to justify slavery in the Hebrew
and Bible and the New Testament. And I've then shown where they kind of might be misleading
someone. And then skeptic has done the voiceover. So here we go. Let's check this out.
A gory of servants or slaves. This is the category where we can just call them the bad guys for now.
Is John failing to mention that some of these bad guys were little girls? Find out March 11th.
So so I'll play that again because I just love the gory of servants or slaves. This is the category
where we can just call them the bad guys for now. Is John failing to mention that some of these
bad guys were little girls? Find out March 11th. So so I'll be making one of them for like Frank
Turrick. I mean, to me, he's the scummiest of all. Yeah. Some of the stuff he says is just
horrendous. It really is. And you know, when I was going through this apologetic stuff.
If there's a hell, I think Frank Turrick has to be first in line.
I don't know. What about Ken Hovind? Well, yeah. Okay. All right. Maybe he's
maybe he he's certainly he's certainly got a got a an early admission. Yeah.
He's got the fast pass, the fast pass, like you get a Disney. The fast
because this oh my god. Like he's been doing this for how long? Like he's been doing this for over
20 years, hasn't he? It's it's yeah. And it's not he knows this shit. He's being dishonest.
And and that's the part that bothers me about all this. Yes, it bothers me that like,
there's things like they'll say like, well, you know, in this verse, the slaves can go free.
And and they can even like Paul Copenh does this. And they can even, you know, when they get passed
on as inheritance to the to the sons, they can even extend this for life if they want little
does little. He doesn't mention the fact that it's like he can't bring his family with him if the
family was given to him by the slave master. And he has to have it all driven through his ear.
Like like cattle in a field. To mark him as property. And that his wife and children are
chattel slaves. They can't come along with him if he wants to leave. If he wants to stay with
his family, he has to be marked for life. And that's a Hebrew service. That's not the prisoners
of war servants. Right. It's it's disgusting. Like to be to be, I think I feel like so much of
the the ink spilled on the Bond slave idea is spent on how wonderful this relationship is. Look
how devoted. And of course, the reason for this is because this is the imagery that Paul and the
other New Testament writers used to describe the relationship of the believer to Jesus Christ.
So it looks like it's something noble and it's something very self-facing and self-sacrificing.
But think, think people. What does this mean? If you are permanently devoting yourself to the
service of one individual, what does this mean? Like I don't think people think through the the
practical application of this, of what it means in the like in the real world on the ground when
when you get right down to it. The thing that I like to do is I like to when someone tries to
defend slavery to me, I just stop using word slave. I just ask him, is owning another person as
property moral? Just I don't care about slavery. I don't care about servanthood. Is it okay to
own another person as property? And you should see how uncomfortable they get. But it's it's not that
it's not that I'm not okay. I need to say something. So a friend of mine who is not a Christian at all,
one of my best friends, he said to me, I was telling him about this stuff. And he said,
oh, don't do that. You know, we talk, give each other advice. He said, don't do that thing where
you kind of virtually signal and you say like, oh, slavery is disgusting. And I'm outrage and all
this stuff. And he's like, because everyone accepts that everyone knows that's the case. And I said,
hang on, man. No, they don't know they don't. It's like if it's like if I went to a clan rally and
was saying like, oh, we all think slavery is bad. Many of these apologists might watch this issue.
And it is an issue. And the John McArthur very recently said that this was a preferable economic
system in place in the Western world. Yeah, he said this. Yeah. And like, I'm, I mean, speaking
about this, because he's like, well, should we go into theology when we're creating this document?
And I said, no, I said, don't worry about theology, because I don't care about the argument, because
there are arguments that can be made. Like, is it a good thing to own other people as property?
I don't care about that argument. Go for it. Go have that argument. But I want to at least have
everyone on the same page. So it's like, no, no, the Bible is explicitly talking about that. The
Bible is explicitly talking about this type of slavery. It wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't different
to chattel slavery that we see in, you know, going over in the, the Interval in South is different
in some ways. Sure, of course, like there are, there are parts that are different. But there's
more similarities than there are differences in the, the, the chattel. So it's like, I just want
to stop the dishonesty. Yeah, I agree. And I would say when people, when people say that, that it's
different than what was in the Antebellum South, I'm like,
are we sure? Are we sure? Yeah. Because all we have to go on this is the reports of the slave
owners. I mean, the slave owners are telling us that this is great. The slaves are having a
wonderful time. They're okay in this, in this state in which they find themselves.
But what we don't have are any, and I mean, any sorts of testimony from slaves themselves
in antiquity. Certainly not Judean antiquity. Yeah, we, yeah, exactly. And we have that,
I bought a book that I'm probably never going to get around to reading, but it's about,
it's like the earliest account we have of like a slave writing his story in the Antebellum South.
But, but I remember showing this clip to, to my wife, Amy. And, you know, she, when she saw the
section of the little girl running and that she, she made one of those laughs that it's like,
because she knew how like, how heavy that is. But it's like, it's shining a line. It's like,
you know, I'm, I'm a, I would say myself an LGBT ally. I love my, my gay trans LGBT folks. Like,
to me, like, I think they get like, persecuted way too much in society. But one of the things,
and I would never, I would never or rarely use the word, the F slur, right. But there is one
occasion where, from my opinion, I think it was actually relevant to, and good to say. Well,
I don't know about good, but it makes me feel uncomfortable. But it's when Christopher Hitchens
was debating with Stephen Frye, he was debating two Catholics. And he, he said, he essentially
used the F slur. And he said, you know, you're, he said, in front of a whole audience of people,
you know, you're an image, you're a child made in the image of God. No, you're not. You're an
F slur. And you can't be, you can't go to heaven and you can't join our church. And it was like,
like that was like brutal for him to say, but it's like the brutality was actually like pointing
out the, it like, it like shook people to the core like, whoa, this is, this isn't something that like,
Christopher Hitchens isn't saying this. He's saying, it's fucked up that the church is saying
this. And he's like kind of bringing the brutality of that out to, out to the forefront.
I still have issues saying that, oh, I wouldn't say the word personally. Well, I, unless I found
reasonable, but, but in that way, it wasn't bigoted towards the LGBT community. It was bigoted to,
it was like pointing out like, Hey, the church is being bigoted. And I think that needs to happen.
And that's what I'm trying to do with these clips. So, yeah. So, so we're at the part of the
interview, Kip, where, where I'm, but I'm a little intoxicated. I've been rambling about
Christopher Hitchens for a little bit. And you're a little intoxicated. So I want to end there.
Okay, good. There's so much there is so much that we didn't get to touch on.
I'd have to have you on another time. I will actually, what I'm going to do is there's a
couple of starred comments that I put down. And I want to get your quick opinion on them
and keep it quick. And we can do this on the time. But so chat GDP said,
we don't even know if David existed at all. Francesca Stafford, like Apollo, who
huge fan of says he didn't. What are your thoughts?
So, I will say that the historical evidence that we have for a person, David is not strong.
It's the case is not good.
Deep in my heart, I want there to be an historical David. And so, and I'll be honest
with you, like I have one of the, one of the things that I, that I've done on YouTube
that I don't feel got nearly enough attention for how awesome it was, was I gave a lecture on
MythVision podcast all about like an historical David and how there might be propaganda against
the Davidic monarchy in Genesis chapter. It's 37. I think it's the story of the story of Onan
spilling a seed is actually, I think, all about the dumb fuckery of the House of David.
So there it is. Yeah, don't spill your seed. Yeah, that one. It's awesome. So,
of course, I look like, I look like a character from Minecraft. And I forgot to plug myself
into my router today. So I hope this looks okay today. But I will say, I just need to stop you
there. Like one thing, like, so I, you have a background in scholarship, obviously, my background
is in marketing. And like, I've offered to help you set up because like it, it, it, it tears me
apart that like, I couldn't find your credentials anymore online, I tried to find your Patreon,
like, and that's something I mentioned before, but I'll mention again. But like, we need like,
from a marketing perspective, you're like, you're, you're running at like 10% of your potential,
you need to tell people what like why you're like, it's so good guys, go check out his Patreon,
and we're going to like be adding the links to your, your YouTube and stuff. And like, because,
because people need to know, you're not, you're not just like some like metalhead who's like,
yeah, like, you know, it looks like a Minecraft. Metalhead drinks right all day. Yeah, yeah,
you know, your stuff, like you're, you're a Bible school and you're active Bible school,
which is so cool. Anyway, keep going. But David, I've, the, the case for an historical David is
not good, but I want to believe that there was an historical David. Is that okay? What, what we
can't say, I think what we can say is that there was, there was probably a Judean kingdom
that is a, a kingdom in and around Jerusalem in at least the eighth century, which seems to have
been connected to a figure identified as David. And we know that from the tel'dan inscription.
But like, that's the best we can do. We honestly, we have no fucking idea about this guy apart from
what we read in the biblical texts and the biblical texts are heavily, heavily edited. They're not
particularly reliable historical sources. You need to really be able to work through them
with like a fine tooth historical comb. But yeah, I've got a soft spot. I've got a soft spot for
thinking that there's an historical David. So, okay, well, just as we, and we got, we got, I got a
couple of questions I always ask everyone, but just before we do that, guys, make sure you subscribe
to Deep Drinks. It tells YouTube, it's, it tells YouTube that you like what you're seeing. So, I mean,
it doesn't, I mean, subscribers don't really work as much as it used to anyway. So you probably
see the video just as much as you would anyway. But if you subscribe, it tells YouTube that you
care enough about this podcast and what we're doing to follow. So we've got 1,277 subscribers as,
as like live right now. And so if you feel like subscribing, please hit the subscribe button.
And I'll greatly appreciate it. But one thing I want to
If you don't feel like subscribing, hit the subscribe button anyways.
Yeah, exactly. Right. It's, exactly. Or Dr. Kill will come, will come for you.
Yes. Yes, you'll have to listen to my inane ramblings for an eternity.
And that is the definition of hell.
So, um, so I often reference the, um, the part in the interview where I, you know,
I've had so much whiskey when you know, I've drunk in half this bottle.
So where I'm, where I'm trying to find the end and broadcast button. But, um,
so this is where I'm at now. So I appreciate that there are still 50,000 people watching.
And I hope that I'll see a lot of people are drinking along with us. So if you are great,
if you're sober, that's also great. But, um, I have a question for you, um,
that I ask all, um, all people that come on, well, most people that come on Dr. Kip Davis,
which is, I guess, so you started out as a fundamentalist and we can go into this
another time, but you know, a Christian, a progressive Christian, right? Yeah.
Yeah. Now you're, now you're not, you're not particularly convinced.
And we, we talked about that in private, um, that you, it wasn't necessarily your scholarship,
but it was other things going on. But in regards to your God belief, uh, what, if anything, would
change your mind? A bunch of whiskey is flowing through your veins.
What would change my mind?
Uh, I guess it would be what would unchange my mind. Um,
I think, and I mean, I, you know, I, I guess I'm pretty vocal on, um, I've become
fairly vocal on YouTube about my, um, disbelief or my unbelief.
But in order to reverse that, uh, honestly, it's, it's incredibly difficult. It would,
it would have to be something quite frankly spectacular just because I've spent enough
time, I spent most of my life in evangelical Christianity. And as a result of that,
I think I have become conditioned to recognize that my own perceptions of things are not to be
trusted. Um, I think that the, the brain is a remarkable pattern building machine
that, uh, will, uh, deceive us necessarily in order to help us to survive. And as a result of that,
um, it's just becoming incredibly difficult to,
I'm like really slurring my speech here, aren't I?
No, no, I don't think you are. Well, maybe that's, guys comment. Are we both slurring our
speech? I think we're both very coherent, but I'm not a very good judge at the moment.
I, I've been drunk enough to know that I'm like pretty drunk.
And, and when I get like this, I start to ramble. So I don't want to ramble away. This is deep
drinks. This isn't surface drinks. Wow. What a platform.
So like, I mean, I, I'm a guy who, when I was 16 years old, um, you know, I saw demons
in the campfire I had encounters with angels when I was 18 years old at the sea train station.
Anybody who's lived in Calgary knows what I'm talking about. Not about the angels,
but about the sea train. Um, I have come to recognize that my own perception of things
is so fragile and fallible that it can't even be trusted, which is why I need the constant
affirmation of the tools that I've been provided through scholarship to investigate these sorts of
phenomena. This is what I do when it comes to antiquity, when it comes to
uh, ancient texts. That's not a funny coming out of my mouth. Um, I, you know, I, I am, I am,
I am trained to look at the minutia in an effort to understand what's real
and to tease out what's fanciful. And I think because of that, I've come to a place where I
don't even know what would convince me because I'm now in a position where I'm always questioning
my own perceptions of the world around me. You know, I, I've, I've told people, I, I know people
who are absolutely, fundamentally 100% convinced that they know Jesus.
And because I was once there and I once validated that, I almost don't even feel like
my own opinion on this matter even counts. So if I say that I don't think anything could
convince me, this is why. It's because I've come to the point of recognizing that I am just as
fallible as every single one of you. But, but, but uh, Dr. Kil, do you realize that you've just
got to have faith? That's the, that's the, the kick in the T. I think that I like to ask people is
like, you know, I've got an optical illusion here and this is a still image. Oh yeah. It's
moving for me, but I'm struggling to work out if it is, is it the whiskey or is it the image,
but it's moving for me definitely. It's not moving for me. Okay, well, okay, well, okay. Maybe,
but either way, the point is that optical illusions, like, you know, we see for their eyes and we're,
we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we don't see the true representation of what's going on.
And you know, it's to me, that's something that like, what about, what if there are audible illusions?
You know, we know that there are audible illusions. What if there are emotional
like people who have emotional, emotional illusions, right? Yeah. Like, and, you know,
I've got a little bit of this whiskey left, Kip. And I think that what we should do is we
should do another episode where we just, you're a champ. We should talk about your,
your deconversion experience where you see demons and you see all those things because that's,
that's an interesting story. I think, and you know, it's amazing. We have, and we just have a
couple of quick comments. Sure. When did the discovering engine history with Pat Lowinger?
When did the Jews, Christians start using my guy? Yeah, cool dude.
When did the Jews, Christians start living, start using living God?
I don't know.
Okay. Sorry, Pat. I, I don't know when. Everyone, go check out Pat's channel. And I'm sure he's
going to do some research on that. And then he's going to make a video on it. So go,
go subscribe to Discovering Ancient History with Pat Lowinger. There you go. At least you,
you didn't get your question answered, but at least you got a shout out. Nitty said,
didn't the DSS have baptism such meal rituals predating Christianity? Oh yeah. So this is one of
the fairly exciting, interesting things about the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls and about the
discovery of the site of Qumran, the ruins in close proximity to the caves where the
manuscripts were discovered. This is a community that engaged in a regular program of ritual
purification by water. They would, they had a complicated system of McVote. These are,
I guess, for a lack of a better term, baptismal fonts, pools of water
through which you could ritually purify yourself. And the reason this was important was because
the people who wrote and collected the Dead Sea Scrolls were convinced that they were
participating in celestial worship in a celestial temple. So they actually believed
that they were communing with actual angels in a cosmic temple. And as a, and because of this,
the requirements were that you had to be just as, as clean and spotless as possible. So the,
you know, the remains are there in the, in the ground at Qumran. There's tons of McVote all
over the place. And I think this definitely corresponds to the prescriptions for ritual
purification and baptism that we read about in the New Testament and in the letters of Paul.
Interesting. It's, I won't lie. I'm struggling to follow, but I will watch this back.
So I'm worried about watching this back. I'll be honest.
Yeah. No, we're, I think we're okay. I think we're okay. And this is what Deep Drinks is all about,
right? So not necessarily getting drunk, but like, you know, everyone having a good time.
And I, I've noticed that not everybody has gotten drunk on this show before.
No, I'll tell you what, this might rival the Sharon Q episode where Sharon Q and I drunk
around three and a half hours. But so last question, unless we get any more super chats,
which is, what is the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in?
Oh, fuck.
What is the most plausibly true religion that I, well, I don't know. Most of the religions.
You have to choose one. Like, let's say, let's say like you died and you, you got brought to a room.
You know what?
There was a big, big sign that said, you didn't choose the right religion,
but there is one that's correct. If you choose the right one, you go to it's after life. Which
one do you think is the most important?
And this, so perhaps this is a testament to, I guess, my, my introspection and just how deeply
ingrained I am. But I think if I were to convert to another religion, it would probably be Judaism.
Interesting.
And one of the reasons for that is because within the Jewish heritage, there is a strong
tolerance for disagreement and for discussion and dialogue.
And what a terrific answer.
Oh, okay.
That's good.
Most people, most people say Buddhism, you know, and I think a lot of people say,
I get it, right? Like I have a, I have a friend, my, my friend Orsai Newsness who I've mentioned
before is a, like he's written a, he's written books about mindfulness.
They're all in Norwegian so nobody can read them.
I, I assume there's some people out there in Norway who can read them. But other than that,
nobody can read them. But he is, he is, yeah, he is a, he is a strong proponent of,
like, Buddhism and mindfulness. And I, and I get it. I get the appeal. But I don't know,
there's just, there's, there's something familiar about, I guess, believing in
the religious tradition that I've inherited as a, as a North American.
That's, that's amazing. I'm glad that you said that because it's, everyone chooses Buddhism.
And I think they, they choose it because it's like Buddhist statues are everywhere and, well,
at least they are in Australia. And you can be an atheist and be a Buddha.
Yeah. And I think that's, I think that's part of it. Yeah. Right. But Cheryl, Cheryl actually
came in with a super chat and Cheryl is the, the very first member VC here. She's the first,
first aside. And she's also super-shattered. She's one of my patrons, eh? She's, well,
I'm saying she, I hope it's a she, sorry. But you know, you're amazing. You're amazing. Yeah.
Thank you. You are doing any courses on DSS with Derek on myth vision. Thank you for,
because this was, we talked about this. I was, I was supposed to mention this, but thank you,
Cheryl. Oh, right. So I, I have a, I have a non-DSS course coming up on myth vision,
hopefully at the end of the month called real Israelite religion facts on the ground
and propaganda in the Bible, which basically tackles the question of what the people who lived
in the syrophoenician region that we now identify as, as Judah, Israel, within this
Palestine area, what they actually believed and how they actually worshiped and then how that,
those ideas ended up becoming co-opted and shaped within the canon with, within the text that became
the Hebrew Bible. So plug out of the way. Am I doing any courses? I have nothing planned yet.
Probably next, I will, I will probably do, Derek and I have been talking about doing a
course on the book of Jeremiah, which I think would be amazing.
Maybe in the future, I will do a course on the Dead Sea Scrolls. I'm pretty focused right now on
the materials that I'm putting together for the Dead Sea Scrolls unapologetically,
which is my series on YouTube. The plan is to compile that and put it together and
market that within a book. So I will probably do that first before tackling something on the
Dead Sea Scrolls in the form of a course. And if I ever do a course on the Dead Sea Scrolls,
it probably won't be just a standard introductory course, but would more likely be something like
the Dead Sea Scrolls in the Bible, or the Dead Sea Scrolls in Apocalypticism, or the Dead Sea Scrolls
and the priesthood in early Judaism, which I think is pretty fascinating. But maybe one day,
probably not in the short term though. Sorry, Cheryl.
Well, Cheryl, thank you so much, and you have informed us that you are a lady. You have to
be careful. I want to be, you know, you have a female name, but I want to make sure that's why I'm
inclusive of people who may have a, yeah, anyway. The point is, she is all female.
And she's not only all female, she's all awesome. She's been such a great supporter.
She is awesome. We've become friends on Facebook, which is amazing.
So there's so much more I want to go into with you, but I will say that this has been a fantastic
interview. Sorry, I just looked at the time. Yeah, we've gone for nearly three hours, and I do want
to say I'm going to do this. Is this a record? No, we did three and a half hours with Neil,
although we were drinking wine, so it was a little easier to keep under control.
But I'm going to keep this. I'm going to keep this for you, Dr. Kil. And we'll have to have you
on again another time, because it's just been fantastic. And I think you're going to have so
much fun. Well, you got a lot there, but I mean, I mean, if you have to tell your wife, yeah,
honey, I have to, you know, I have to get the, you know, Dave wants it for deep drinks. I have to
get it. Yeah. Yeah. So thank you so much, Kip, for coming on, guys. Thank you for subscribing
to Deep Drinks Podcast. We can see we've gone up a few. Oh, yeah. Thanks for checking out the
Patreon as well. Yeah, man. And Dr. Kip's Patreon. And I'm just trying to see for where the other
things are. Check out Mithvisions podcast with the episodes with Kip on it. And of course,
I had it, I had it here, but in the description, we have Dr. Kip's channel as well as his Patreon.
So go check out that as well. Thank you so much, Dr. Kip Davis, for coming on.
I really appreciate it. Thank you for coming on. And guys, we're forward to the slavery panel. And
stay tuned on Twitter if you follow me. What a drinker for that, are we?
You can if you want. There's no deep drinks panels. We're just going to let people do their own thing.
But I will say that, I will say that, guys, I'm thinking either tomorrow or the next day,
I'm going to start the very aggressive ad campaign to make sure these apologists know
that the five horsemen of biblical scholarship are coming to call out their bullshit on slavery
apologists and human rights violations. So with that said, thank you, Dr. Kip. Let's do this.
Amen. Praise Neil deGrasse Tyson.
you
