Drinks Podcast. Thank you everyone for coming out. Today is a very, it might be a very contentious
issue today. It may be a little spicy in the comments section. And I can already see some
of you lovely people commenting your thoughts and perspectives on Dr. Kip and his work.
So this will be good. Let's get into this.
We need, we need a petition to change the official deep drink song to that. That I've
really grown to love that song. And have you? I guess I just have to come back more often.
I'm, you know, you may, you may have noticed I'm, I used it for, for all the, the, the
videos that I, I read it. Yeah. And I think I'm, I think I'm sticking with it. So it just,
it's so good. It doesn't get flagged. Oh, am I allowed to drink? Yeah. Sorry. Oh, well,
no, you, you, well, that's a great question. What are we drinking today, Kip? And you always
choose amazing. Do I? Oh, yeah, you do. So actually, before we do this, if anyone doesn't
know who you are, Hebrew Bible scholar, expert on ancient scribal witnesses, ancient scribal
practices, sorry, PhD in religion and theology from Manchester University. You were, you're
part of a team that discovered forgeries in the Dead Sea Scrolls. And you're an expert
in sacred temple Judaism. Is there anything else that I've missed that's relevant to
this discussion?
Father of three father, taste in music, dog, taste in music. I have a cat. We don't seem
a lot anymore though, because one of the dogs likes to chase him. You know, that's, yeah.
So that's, I mean, that's mostly me. Yeah, I like, I like to snowboard in the winter
time and I mountain bike in the summertime, although I won my holiday at the beginning
of July. And on my very first run with my buddies, I had a still and I broke my finger.
So yeah, I saw that. And I said to you, I always, I always discourage anyone from exercising
because you can injure yourself. So it's never healthy to exercise. Just stay home and eat
cheese. That's that's it. That's the healthy one. Yes. But I took some Advil and I finished
the day, which I felt really good about. But the next day I like went and we were planning
to do like some writing the next day. And then I was just going to come home, right?
Oh, no. This is the incident. Oh, no. Oh, no, the incident problem. This is what we're
talking about before. And we haven't even gotten to the drink. Hang on. Are you back?
Hello. Oh, no. Yes, I can hear you. Hello.
Okay. Let me. I miss this. I miss this is deducting the dosing you're off.
I will let us know if.
Oh, no, I hope this is just do hold on. Am I back?
Yeah. Hello. Okay. Yep. So I actually I actually just turned my wifi off because I think it's
I think it's I think it's possibly yeah, it's it's jumping back and forth. So as I was saying,
you know, I went to bed, I woke up in the morning and I don't know like it's you could see the
bump there, right? You see the funny on my hand? Yeah. So I think that's permanent now. But I
woke up in the morning and my hand looked like Mickey Mouse's hand. And I was like, I could
maybe move it like that. But there's no way I could even grip my bar. So I was like,
I don't know if I should if I should ride today. And yeah, back on my bike at all for the whole
month of July, I was off my bike, which is weird for me. So I think I think I'm hoping I can I can
get back on it here on the next week or two. But yeah, well, hopefully, hopefully you can. And
hopefully what we're drinking today will ease some of the pain if you still have any what are we
drinking today? We are drinking Kentucky mules. And I have made my Kentucky mules with fine. Oh,
there we go. Wild Turkey Kentucky bourbon. And this this nice premium ginger ale that my my
brother bought for me this this fear. And it's interesting. This is new for me because my brother
got me this this case of premium ginger ale. And I was like, What the fuck am I supposed to do with
this? Well, I did what I've become accustomed to doing. And I asked Twitter. And I was cool. I
should make should make Kentucky meals out of it. So I started doing that. Yeah, they're great. So
that's that's that's awesome. Well, I've got cheers. I've got a Bundaberg ginger beer, which is
the focus, which is the town in Australia. And we got I got my special Iowa number nine. Come on,
focus. Just got a little bit left in there. Breaking my rules. I'm technically supposed
to only listen to slipknot while I'm while I'm drinking this. But this is a special occasion.
So I'm happy to. Oh, and yeah, I'm really excited to drink. Is this maybe the sound?
Maybe the sound of my voice is a little bit like slipknot. Yeah. Does that work? Well,
maybe maybe everyone in the the maggots in the crowd has what flipknot fans are called. Turn it on,
guys. Turn on slipknot while you while you watch. I have to ask. And you know, we hadn't
initially had a first question that we will get to. But I have to ask first, why,
why do you think that this is such a contentious issue? Why do people fight about this subject?
Like it's literally their right, their entire identity. I am flabbergasted by it. What are
your thoughts? So I mean, I think that I think that that people on both sides of this issue are
clearly entrenched. And I say that in a sense that so like, how do I put this? I think people who
so and we're we're talking about Jesus mythicism directly. Yeah, I mean, my whole thing. I don't
know if anybody knows, but I've made a couple of videos now. And there's the third one coming
about the Jewish source material behind or behind Richard Carrier's theory of minimal Jesus
mythicism. So I basically went into his book to look at the Jewish source material. And we'll talk
about, you know, what what I have discovered and what I think is going on. But with regards to this
question of Jesus's existence as an actual person, I think those who are strongly committed to denying
the existence of an historical Jesus by and large have arrived at that position
from a from a polemical starting point, I think is the way I'll put it. I think what happens and
I've talked to, you know, I've talked to, to, to people who jumped right into this idea.
Oftentimes what happens is people will
deconvert, they will deconstruct deconstruction is stressful. It's it induces all sorts of anxiety.
I think that a lot of people will latch on to this idea. And it sounds, let's be honest about it,
it sounds, it is, it's plausible, right? Given, you know, the source material that we have for the
existence of Jesus, it's certainly plausible that that he didn't exist. So right from the start,
and for people who don't know, I mean, the Gospels are hopelessly buried under layers of theology.
We have a smattering of references outside of the New Testament in Josephus and Antesitus and
Suetonius. It's not that the evidence itself on like a, how do I put this on, I guess,
all things being equal, the evidence itself doesn't seem compelling,
because this smattering of third party witnesses. Although scholars will tend to,
to argue that what we do have is actually fairly remarkable, given what scholars think
about who Jesus was and what he did, because he's certainly not the Jesus from the Gospel. He was a
an itinerant Jewish apocalyptic charismatic who got in trouble with the Romans and was executed.
And, you know, that would have been the end, if not for, you know, a small following that
started the church in Jerusalem and then ultimately Paul, who dramatically, dynamically
adapted the religion, the early Christian religion into something
that spread across the Roman Empire, basically developed it from a Jewish sectarian cult into a more
Greco-Roman friendly international type of worldview. So, no one was going with that.
So that's like the scholarly idea and that's what, and scholars tend to think,
for whom we expect Jesus to have been in real history, it's not surprising that the sources are
as bad as they are. But then on the other side of this coin, when it comes to explaining the
origins of Christianity, it still seems much more plausible that the model that's been constructed
of this Galilean apocalypticist who was executed and whose followers eventually deified,
you know, that makes quite a bit of credible sense.
Something that, like, I just to butt in there, something that I first got into a tip,
my first interactions with a godless engineer, John, were a tiff on Twitter where I said,
it's clear to me that mythicists are only mythicists for the fields and he didn't like that statement
and we got into a bit of a back and forth and then I said, let's jump on a live stream.
And I jumped on his live stream and he quickly pulled apart the fact that my understanding
of mythicism was, this is my understanding of mythicism at the time, Jesus didn't exist,
lol, I didn't know any of this, like, I didn't think there was anything more to that than mythicism
than that. But I quickly retracted my position correctly because I was trying to, however,
it seems to me, now I'm not saying this is the case for Richard Carrillo, for John, or for a
lot of people who actually researched this stuff, it's an easy excuse for people. Now I'm kind of
poising the well here, I know, but this is just kind of my, we're not doing like a deconstruction
of the minimal myth theory here, but I'm just kind of pointing my two cents. It seems to kind of,
it, to see Jesus as the minimal myth concept where he's this, you know, this
defied, you know, cosmic thing, it totally discredits Christianity. Like, if there was no,
I think the things that for me that make Christianity viable are things like if the
resurrection actually happened. Now, if that didn't even happen on earth, if it happened in the
cosmic realm, and it's like not, you know, it makes, it's a very, for someone who may still be
concerned about hell, or maybe still be concerned about what if they're wrong about their Christian
faith, or their lack of Christian faith, or they've still got the hangups about the church and the
Christianity, it's very nice, it's very convenient to be like, it was all bullshit. So I still think
that my statement stands true for a vast majority of people. And the reason I say that is because
they act, the mythos that I've encountered, not all of them, but a lot of them, act as if
they act like religious zealots, in that like, I've suggested books to my audience and I've said,
this is a really good book. It was a book on, by a Marxist talking about the,
the political and sociological environment of first century Palestine, where Jesus, and they
literally, and I quote, I won't read this because I'm a mythosist, as if they've driven
a nail in the ground, a stake in the ground and saying, this is like, that's like, I'm a Christian,
so I wouldn't read such a thing. And that has always like, irked me the wrong way. And then
you've had a few messages, a few lovely messages from people. Do you have any that you could share?
Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So my, the comments section on my most recent videos has turned into a
into a train wreck. But so yeah, I mean, I can, I can share a couple of these that I've,
I think these are the ones that I, oh, here, I have to select that. I think these are the ones
that I, that I sent you. Yeah. So I'll pull these up. Here's one from, from this, can you see that?
Can you zoom in? Like, how do I open it right up? Oh, yeah, there we go. Oh, yeah, let's do this,
guys. There we go. So here's the first one from this lovely guy, by the name of John McIntyre,
8468. And I think the, like, I think the icon is telling, you know, he's got a, he's got a picture
of, of the Kenneth Copeland there with the, with the tears coming out. And in all caps,
because every, every, you know, great point has, has always been made in all caps. He says,
you have been compromised by the cults of historicist academic elites who need to resort to attacks
and gaslighting to discredit Carrier, who is the only scholar telling the truth. You can't prove
that Jesus existed. Nope, you can't. And you are proving Christianity right, Lowell. Carrier is peer
reviewed from Columbia and you are just a YouTuber. And then he complains that I can't even debate Carrier
because I would get demolished. It's probably true. But, you know, oh, sorry, David, that's you.
So, but he did, he had a bunch more here. He, he said, he posted this on one of my videos then
a little later, he said, you can't change what is already peer reviewed, which is the smartest
statement I've ever heard, which is, that was kind of confusing to me because
I mean, you could see from my response here, I've like, you know, what exactly does this guy
think peer review is in the first place? And then there's, there's one more here, I think to, oh,
yeah, here he says, you're, you're the possessive genetic genetic form, you're just math, because
Carrier's book changed the world. I mean, everyone nervous that Christianity is wrong. So,
now, now I'm not, we all get crack heads in our, sorry, but we all get crackpots
in our comments from time to time. Sure. You know, but I, but John, like, honestly, like,
God, if you're watching Richard, if you're watching Carrier, if you're watching the amount
of people, I'm sorry, but the amount of people like that, that come to us, come to me at least
whenever I talk about this is on the on the mythic side, very angry and spewing these kind of,
like, points, you might even see some of the comments later on in this video. It's, it's
alarming. And I, and I'm wondering, this makes me think personally, that, that it's, it comes from
a more emotionally emotional spot than an academic spot, not saying, again, not saying there's no
way to academically rectify this. I'm not making that claim. You might, Kit, but not me at the
moment. We even have, we even have this cycle in the chat, Mythalision podcast. Who's paying for
the historical G3 Historicis, Kit? We know you know that Jesus didn't exist. We know that we know
Jesus didn't exist. The truth of the matter is, when, like, when you get your, when you get your
PhD card, you know, they also, they also, you have to sign off in blood that Neri
shall you ever dare suggest that, that Jesus might have been, you know, not an historical person,
because we just can't have that. So I, like, I don't know. And, you know what, I, I prefer not to,
like, I just, I just want to say, I, I would prefer not to speculate about why people think the way
they do. But I, what I, what I do want to do, and what I had hoped to do with the, with my,
with my video series, was that what I had hoped to do was, was to focus on what these texts actually
say. And to be clear, I think maybe going back a little bit, my series of three videos was never
intended to tackle the, the mythical Jesus. That's not the point, right? You know, I'm, I'm, I'm
probably not qualified to do that. I'm not a New Testament scholar. I'm, you know, I haven't spent
my life working through this literature at a level adequate enough to tackle that question.
And I should point out, I see, I see Richard's in the chat, but I should point out that I don't
think he does either. Well, let me just, let me just, let me just quickly just,
this is upon the break. So I got, I got a message from, as I said, I got a message from
God, this new John on Facebook messenger, he said that history, historicists also do the same
thing. And that might be the case. I'm not on the other side. I'm not on the side creating
mythos content. So I don't get like insane crackpot, his, his, his tourists. But I'm just saying,
this is, this may be the contention. John and Richard might get a lot of like angry
historicists like yelling at it. It might be, this might be the reason why, and then everyone's
yelling at pseudo versions of each other anyway. And Richard seems like Richard Kerry is in the
chat. Hello, Richard. But yes, keep going. Sorry, Kim. No, that's fine. I was going to say I don't,
so that was never the point to take on this question. But I, you know, I've been intrigued
by the question because it seems to come and I'll let, let's be honest about this as well.
This is a social media phenomenon. So this is, as, as I've spent most of my time in
social media, I've, I've become keenly aware of this question, which almost
it's, it's not something that that's readily discussed within, within academic circles,
which is where I'm coming from. So I mean, that was curious to me, this idea of, you know,
where does this come from? Why, why, why is this so popular in this space?
So after hearing a lot about it, I decided to go and, and look because one of, one of the things
that, and I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll go way back here long before I ever have my YouTube channel.
I actually think I was still maybe even a PhD student or had recently just graduated.
The other thing, maybe I should have mentioned that people,
I'm a, I'm a, I'm a Canadian. And as, as a Canadian, you are, you know, bound from birth
to be a hockey fan. So I am a big fan of the, the Calgary Flames, Go Flames.
And for many years, I participated on, on like a message board. And in the off topic forum,
I remember seeing, there was a post once in the off topic forum about the kind of the zeitgeist
version of Jesus' mythicism, which is, that was made popular from this, this, this crazy
crackpot conspiracy movie. Yeah, I know. That was, that was the idea of mythicism that I had
before I spoke to John. Yeah. So, and then, and there were like a bunch of memes being posted in this,
in this, on this message board. And I'm like, well, this is silly. And so I just responded. I said,
this is silly. And, and somebody challenged me and said, well, well, you know, you have no evidence.
What do you think you know about this? So I said, look, and I, and I laid out the case
as I saw it for an historical Jesus, which is quite heavily grounded within what I know about
early Judaism. So I put that out there. And one of the guys on this message board was also
an administrator at free, free thought blogs at the time, where, where I know Richard was,
was used to host this blog. And so he actually took it upon himself to send this stuff to,
to Richard, and Richard responded. And then he said, Hey, here is, you know, Richard Carrier's
response to all this. And I was, and I looked it over. And, you know, it was very, it was, it was
very thorough and, and wordy. And so I, I actually responded back to it, but my, my impression was
at the outset. And I think I mentioned this in my response to that the kind of argument that
Richard was attempting to make was akin to, you know, the argument for a teapot in space,
where so long as there's a plausibility and so long as you can't disprove this idea,
there's a chance, right? And yeah, I just, I don't think it's very strong. I, I just don't,
I just don't see it. And so that's kind of where that that's my background to this.
I only actually got around to, to reading Richard's book in the last few months. And I haven't read
the whole thing. And again, my interest is, is squarely on what, how he's handling the Jewish
literature, because this is something I saw early on too, that I found fairly alarming was how,
how he was reading these texts, how he was in many instances over reading these texts, or just
flat out misreading early Jewish texts. So I approach, you know, this is how I approach the
book was to look and see how is he handling the Jewish literature? Is he representing it
accurately? And, you know, ultimately, is this a good source for learning or, or knowing about
early Judaism? And I was honestly actually quite surprised at a number of the ways that
these texts are presented in the book, which, and it was honestly, it was,
I had a, I had kind of a, a break in, I'm, you know, in the middle of, I'm in the middle of my
Dead Sea Scrolls series. And it feels like it's taking forever to get the fourth video scripted.
So I'm, you know, I, I felt like I'm kind of in a, in a, in a block, and I need to get myself out of
this, this writer's block. I'm like, well, why don't I just do something quick on, you know,
I said, don't, I said, don't do it, kid. Don't. You don't want to get it. And you're like, no,
no, no, I'm just gonna do it. I'm like, oh, I really need to get that back in the bank.
So, so that's, that's kind of where it started. And I, I thought I would do, I would knock this
out in 30 minutes, right? So I, yeah, I, I started and I'm like, Oh my God, like,
I'm going to need a lot more videos to finish this. Oh, by the way, I want to mention
those three videos that I, that I, I did those, those most recent ones
are the first three videos that I have made with Da Vinci Resolve. And I'm so happy that my good friend
Lachlan Davis over at Bible Unbox introduced me to Da Vinci Resolve because, oh my God,
does it ever make, no, I was using, I have used iMovie for every video that I've ever made
up until two months ago. I was surprised because I asked you about, I was like, I was like,
how do you get those animations? And you're like, oh, I, you screen record from like a
PowerPoint presentation. Yeah, I screen, I screen record, I screen record keynote presentations
because I like a lot of their animations. So all of this here is like a screen record from the,
yeah, yeah, that's keynote, right? Yeah. So, which is actually a brilliant idea. I, like,
it'd be hard to actually pull that off in the, in that proper editor.
Hang for Shea, hang for, she says, I love iMovie and I'll be honest, I, for a long time,
I really loved iMovie too, but I have to say that in the last year or so, I feel like I've been kind
of pushing the, the boundaries of iMovie and I needed something like the last, I think the last
video I made on iMovie was my Dead Sea Scrolls number three video and my God, the render on that
took hours. Yeah, it was crazy. So it's not much better. When I was also, I do a bit of
editing for Mythfish and sometimes when you're super busy and I edited your video and I had to
render your, your Testament, I had to render it out using like software only version of like
Mercury, which is the renderer for Premiere, 16 hours. And then there was a mistake. So I had
to do it again. It's another 16 hours. Yeah, it took ages and I've got like a beast. Is that because
it's all like 4k or? That's part of it, but it's because I had to use the, because it kept
failing on like a hardware enabled renderer. So it had to like, I get essentially paint each frame
one at a time. It's a little, it's a little technical, but it's, yeah, it's really just,
just took a long time. But um, but so when it comes to on the historicity, one of the things that
I kind of came away from the, came away from it when I read, or listened to it, I had the
audible version. I need to get a physical version, but in Australia land, it's so expensive and I'm
poor person right now. But we, we wanted to, when I, it's one of those, to me as a lay person,
it felt very much like reading, um, um, a brief history of time by Stephen Hawking,
where I go, okay, if you say so, like, it's like, I go, like, I, this is really interesting.
I have no way to evaluate what, if any of these formulas or whatever you're saying is accurate
or, or works or anything. So for me, it became, for me as a late lay person, I tended to find it
interesting. Um, and, and to be, to be clear, I didn't do a thorough study of it. I listened through
for the conversation with, um, GE, uh, but you know, and I might go back to it, but for me,
like it feels safe to stick with consensus scholarship personally, uh, just because that's
just, but what I find interesting is you are equipped, and I, unless you listen to some of the
commenters in this, um, in the comments, you're equipped at least to, in fact, you're probably,
uh, uh, an expert, well, you are an expert, but you're probably the guy to talk to about
certain, certain aspects of this book. So, um, first of all, what are those, what are those parts?
So, um, I think chapter four within the book is, um, is committed to chapter four and chapter five,
actually, are committed to background knowledge, um, information, and, and factors, uh, which,
which underlie, uh, the larger theory of, uh, of minimal mythicism, things that, that
are in place, which make the theory possible. Um, and of course, you know, it's in order to,
in order to get this, uh, to work, as I understand it, you need, you need to make certain, uh,
assumptions or you need to, to establish certain things about early Judaism out of which,
you know, Christianity, um, emerged. So, and that's what I, that, that's what, that's where my,
uh, expertise is useful, is in evaluating what this literature says and how to read it.
And I think most importantly, how Jews, like how the early Jews read these texts and understood
these scriptures. Now, one of the things, and I, I, I have to say, like, and in, in the first video,
I mentioned that by and large, a lot of these things that are put out there, these, these elements
of background knowledge are, you know, yeah, they're true. They're accurate. Um, you know,
that at one point, uh, Richard makes a, a, a, a point of saying that, uh, you know, there's no
established set of scriptures at this time, and that's true. Um, and we, we actually have, I would
say, um, we probably know less about the shape of scripture in the first century BCE than we think
we do. Um, and I think a lot of, uh, presuppositions have affected the ways in which we even, even
scholars for many years have evaluated the shape of scripture within, uh, the first century BCE.
Um, and this is the kind of stuff that I get into quite a bit in my series. Uh, the Dead Sea Scrolls
unapologetically, I think everyone should watch it. Um, because, you know, uh, so actually in the
last one, the last video in that series, it's about 40 or 50 minutes, and the title of the
video is, what is a biblical text anyways? Um, because it is still a very, uh, current ongoing
question within, uh, scholarship of early Judaism of the Dead Sea Scrolls. Um, and, you know, I think
that's quite interesting. So yes, good. Richard noticed this, he did on this, but I think, uh,
you know, so yes, like, and, and this is something that, that ultimately he's, he's right about.
Um, one of the other things that, that he points out is that there's this wide,
this vast array of expressions of early Judaism, which is true. Um, and we know of a few of them.
I don't think we know nearly as much about more than a few of them than we think we do. Um,
but he, uh, I would say in my reading of the background knowledge that, uh, he puts an awful
lot of, um, emphasis, uh, faith in the fact that there are so many Jewish sects about which we
know nothing as a way to promote the possibility of the existence of a sex that possibly might have
believed this thing, right? So, and that's, and that's kind of where things start to, to, to fall
apart. Um, you know, and, and, and this is, this is where I think the biggest problem I have with
the book was, was with element five and with element six. Uh, element five states, and I've got it right
here, uh, or do I? Maybe I don't. Oh, there it is. Okay. Even before Christianity rose,
some Jews expected one of their missiles harrowing the end of time, the end times would actually
be killed rather than be immediately victorious. And this would mark the key point of a timetable
guaranteeing the end of the world soon thereafter. Such a concept was therefore not a Christian
novelty wholly against the grain of Jewish thinking, but already exactly what some Jews were thinking
or could easily have thought. This is the most controversial element. I credit to, to, to Richard
for recognizing this is the most controversial element in our background knowledge. Many scholars
being so intent on denying it. So, uh, this idea that, that there was already this idea that a,
a Messiah, um, there was, there was a Jewish expectation for a Messiah who would be killed
and then be immediately victorious. This is not clear. And it's, it's not clear. And I think Richard
takes advantage of the fact that there's a great deal of ambiguity behind this idea, um, to promote
something that is probably not there. In his discussion of element five, he spends a lot of
time talking about the Talmud, um, which is very late. Uh, if you don't know, I've actually got a
one minute video, um, where I just briefly, uh, give a crash course on what the, the Talmud is. I see
godless engineer mentioning over 21st scholars agree it was part of early Judaism. I'm skeptical
about that number. I think the way they've arrived at that number is by counting stuff that's been
published, but then also peer reviewers who have, have signed off on publication. Um,
but that's not entirely how this works. Um, this is very much a debated issues. It is certainly not
and importantly, I'll, I'll just say this this quickly. Um, the idea that this is current within
pre-Christian Judaism depends substantially on reading key texts from the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Okay. And men and virtually all of these texts from the Dead Sea Scrolls are up for dispute.
There is nothing, uh, clear about, about what many of these texts have to say.
Well, yeah, and I'll just, I'll say one more, sorry, I keep, I keep an eye on you and I'll stop. Um,
and I'll say this. Listen, I interrupt you too, so it's your show, man. Uh, so you're the guest.
We can all be experts in everything, right? Which is why I think it's, it's pretty important when
we're forming our ideas about a given topic to, to pay close attention to what the actual experts
are saying. So when it comes to, you know, the gospel of Matthew, you know, don't listen to me,
uh, go in and look up somebody who's, you know, or a bunch of people who spent their life working
in the gospel of Matthew. By the same token, when it comes to ideas being forwarded about the Dead
Sea Scrolls, don't consult, uh, people who've spent their entire lives looking through the, uh, the
Talmud. Consult the experts in the Dead Sea Scrolls and see what they're saying and why they say it.
And I think if you do that, then your perspective probably shifts quite a bit on, uh, on this question.
And we can get into some of that because I, I'd like to, one of the things that I've done,
you do whatever you need. Oh, dear, Atlas sounds upset.
He's, uh, yeah, he's, he's okay.
Okay. All right. Uh, so, um, yeah, say what, say what, uh, sorry, I'll stop now.
Well, so, so what I was going to say was, um, this is, this is, I think this is,
this is probably the most, this is the thing that's going to piss off. I think
uh, GE, the most, what I say here. Well, then you say it.
But yeah, I will say it, but so over 24 souls agree, it was part of early Judaism, which is,
which is what we just talked about and talk about here with you. You can't have this statement
as a like slam dunk. And then in the next breath, argue that there's conspiracy
amongst all Bible scholars to hide the fact that mythicism, that they have biases, a Christian
biases, and the most like by no man, not a Christian is written extensively on the fact that,
you know, um, Jesus was a historical person. Uh, I just feel like you're engaging in conspiracy
at the level where, you know, would someone mentioned vaccines before I've done a lot of
research into vaccines and the MMR vaccine, um, in 1998, there was a paper published,
looking at 12 children, um, who, whose parents thought that they'd started developing, um,
autism spectrum disorder, uh, shortly after getting the MMR vaccine, 12 testimonies from parents.
This paper was, I think, um, peer reviewed or 11 other people signed their names to it.
Uh, 11 people signed the names of this paper and that was what was brought
cause the huge wave of fear amongst parents and people and all across the world about the MMR
vaccine and autism. And since then countless studies have been done from competing organizations
from all around the world with millions and millions of kids, uh, with different types of
studies to try and find the link between the supposed link between the MMR vaccine and autism.
That there's having a, having a small group of people, this is my thoughts, having a small
group of scholars say one thing, if it goes against consensus, it should, as late people,
all you can kind of do is go, okay, well, like this is, this is a fringe theory at this day.
It's just a fringe theory. You can't, in one breath, say 24 scholars agree. And then the next
breath say, um, but there's a conspiracy that everyone will, you know, everyone who looks at
this stuff is Christian and that's why they don't take, uh, carries work seriously and etc, etc.
Like to me, it's like, and I know that's, that's not going to be taken lightly by
mythicists. Um, but I, I honestly think it is, it is crying conspiracy and that doesn't mean it's
not true. I want to get that across. It doesn't mean it's not true. It just, it just seems this, uh,
um, I don't know where it is. Maybe, maybe I need to say something here about peer review and I'm
speaking as somebody who has had dozens of articles and books, uh, passed their peer review.
Um, it's nothing special. Uh, and I'm also speaking as someone who has served as a peer reviewer
for articles and for books and for series. So when something passes peer review, that doesn't mean
that the review, so if I, I'm given an article, no, let's see, I, I was given an article
two months ago, three months ago. I don't, I had to hand it in. Yeah, I had to hand it in at the, uh,
at the end of April. So it was a while ago. I was given this article, uh, to review for a journal
publication. Um, and when I read it, um, in the first place, people need to understand that,
that, um, publishers are going to do their best to try and find reviewers who are competent enough
in, you know, the, the areas of specialization necessary for reading this stuff. And they can
be more successful than not sometimes. So I was in, I was asked to review an article recently
on the basis of my work as a paleographer. And this was an article dealing with, uh,
medieval manuscripts, which is not something I know extremely well. Um, but, you know, I'm kind
of like, it was kind of like, you know, trying to find, it's not easy to find people who are,
are, you know, experts in, in everything, or even sometimes experts in the specific minutia
that you need them to be. So that's at the outset. As a peer reviewer, when I'm reading an article,
um, if I disagree with what the article says, that doesn't mean I reject it.
Okay. So if, if something is passed through peer review, that doesn't mean that the peer
reviewers agree that this, uh, that the ideas forwarded are now gospel. So counting peer reviewers
as proponents of an idea is wrong. You can't do that. I know for a fact that I have had stuff,
uh, reviewed, and I've discovered after the fact who my peer reviewers were,
who disagree with my arguments. But, you know, it passed through peer review anyways.
So this is all peer review does. It says, uh, this is cogent. Um, it's not, uh,
it's not ridiculous. It's well sourced. It's well argued. And, um,
it, it has at least, uh, taken into consideration the important detractors to the idea.
And I will say also that I don't think it always works. So there's plenty of ridiculous stuff
that gets passed peer review. Plenty of it. I mean, let's talk about all the, you know,
let's talk about all the evangelical Christian nonsense that gets through peer review.
Um, I mean, isn't the, the, the, right? The Trout of Turin. I mean,
there's lots of like, I talked to inspiring philosophy about that. And he's like,
I have no idea. Cause there's so much like on both sides is so much. Yeah.
Peer reviews are a good step, right? Like, and, and I think I will say too, like, I, I, I, I,
I guess I believe in peer review in large part because I have to, and also because I like to
think that that it's better than nothing. Okay. Um, but by the same token, like I, there's plenty
of stuff that gets to peer review that I honestly think should not. And I just like, you can't
continue to, to say peer review, peer review, as if that ends the argument. You just can't continue
to do that. You can still step one is getting through peer review. Step two is convincing
your peers who've now read your stuff that it's useful and meaningful enough to start
citing and to affect the way that they think and they now write about, uh, about new ideas.
And that's super hard. Like I have, I have, I've, I mean, my, my own bibliography on my,
on my CV is like 15 pages, right? Yeah. I don't even understand the titles of the stuff that you,
like, I don't, I actually don't like, I don't even know this stuff. I've seen, I've seen,
I've seen bits and pieces, I think, when I was doing research on you for, um, the slavery panel.
But yeah, like, I, I didn't even understand what you were writing about. Like, I, like,
I saw the word density in there somewhere, but like most of the, most of the time I don't know what,
like the, like your, your, your stuff is so academic. This is what I mean. I, I'm a lay person. I
don't have the ability to even critique, uh, a lot of, um, the, the work. And honestly, a lot of my
stuff just never gets cited because it's super arcane. Like, you know, I, you know, I wrote an,
I wrote an article about, I, I wrote an article about one fragment from kumran, uh, that, that
had literally like four words on it. And I was making an argument for why it should belong to
this manuscript. And it's like, it's like, it's a review article, right? And like, nobody has,
nobody has ever cited that one. Uh, so all that to say, this is, this is the super hard part,
is getting your ideas out there and getting people to take them seriously. So like from the pages
and pages of stuff that I published and had peer reviewed, there's like a handful that,
you know, scholars regularly cite. Um, you know, just because, just because most of the stuff that
most of us, maybe that's, that's the lesson here. Most of the stuff that most of us published,
unless we're like Emanuel Toe or Dale Allison or Bart Ehrman, most of the stuff that we published
is shit. So, well, um, so I, okay, I've got a good, good test for us. Okay. So I'll, I'll give
her a quick account of who I think the historical Jesus is. And then I want you to be able to,
um, steal man, the best version of the middleman's position that you can do that.
Man, I doubt it, but well, at least, at least explain what carrier is proposing, um,
in contrast to, you know, I don't know, man, I, I'm probably going to get this wrong.
Um, and again, I'm not like, I'm, this is not my, this is not my thing. My thing is,
is the early Jewish texts. It's not, you know, whether or not Jesus even existed. I think he did,
but, um, I don't know. I guess. So that, yeah, actually, that's a great point. I gotta hold my
nose. The point is, the point is we are not, we are not. Okay. We're not critiquing.
At least know what you think me seriously about this. Okay. Okay. This is going to be clipped.
Hey, G's fans for, um, for watching this clip video. But anyway, um, so, okay. So the understanding
I have of Jesus, uh, is that he was a first century apocalyptic preacher of sorts, similar
to John the Baptist. Uh, it is said that he performed miracle signs and wonders. Um, uh,
at least people believe this. Um, many moons later, people wrote this down and he eventually
became defied. Um, it says that he was crucified and that his, there was their accounts of his
disciples seeing him after he was crucified. Uh, and then this, this is turned to a religion that,
that, that was quite diverse at the start. And then when Constantine converted, um,
to Christianity, it became less, um, less diverse as, uh, Rome had the, the, the, the, um,
the big daddy, um, the perspective of like a reach of Christianity, um, to spread Christianity
and their version of Christianity. So that's my understanding of, of, of Christianity from
like a very lay person's, um, understanding. Um, and I'm supposed to critique that from, uh,
well, not, don't critique it, but like, so, so how does, I guess, how does, how does Richard
carry his understanding from that? I think, I think the starting point for, for people who
hold onto this idea is that the third starting point, third party, uh, source material for Jesus
is far too non-existent. Um, and we should expect somebody to have noticed, uh, Jesus in
early Palestine, um, and have written something about him. Uh, the, uh, the earliest sources that
we have for Jesus are the apostle Paul. Um, and Paul says that at one point in one of his letters
that he learned everything that he knew about Jesus from visions and from revelation. So it's
clear that he doesn't actually believe in an earthly Jesus so much as he believes in this
cosmic, uh, celestial Jesus. The gospels were then, you know, written later to historicize
this figure and to set him within, um, I, uh, yeah, I, you're right, Richard. I'm totally wrong
about this because this isn't my thing, right? So like I said, my, my stuff is really, I'm gonna
totally mess this up and there you go guys. You got a clip show. Way to go. No, no, no, no, it's not,
it's not necessarily about that because like we said at the start, you're critiquing the, um,
one part of a very large broad work, but the broad work is essentially that, that, that there's this,
that the stories written about Jesus were like, um, I don't know the word that was correctly used,
but like allegorical or like they're like, uh, they're like, um, they're like, they represent
what's happening in, I guess, like the cosmic spiritual realm, but their stories about they're
like, they're like deified mythology, mythologies about Jesus as if he existed on earth, but it's
about the, but, but in reality, Jesus was crucified in heaven and in the cosmic realm and, and except
like this, it's, it's, uh, it's something like it's not, it's less, less about Jesus didn't exist,
lol. It's actually about like a deified, um, Jesus was like a, like a pre-existing deified, like,
uh, god that was like crucified, I guess, in space, um, or in the cosmic realm or something.
I'm, I'm butchering just as well as, as, as you, but, um, but the, the concept that, but
that's the general concept, right? That the Jesus didn't exist and there was, that these things
happened in like the spirit realm, in the cosmic realm. So, right. I, sorry, I'm just looking at the
comments. Um, and I, maybe I should say a couple things here. Uh, so I don't care if people clip
me. That's fine. I mean, this isn't serious. It's YouTube, right? You know, this is not something
that, all of this stuff is not something that I'm, I'm working on as a scholar. So whatever.
Um, this isn't, and, and, and then I'll say, oh, could I say, so Richard also says to be fair
Kip, that you said that in advance. So I'm not criticizing that at all. Uh, you honestly
haven't gotten to my argument in OHJ yet. And honestly, I'm not, like I said, I'm, I'm mostly
interested in the, in the representation of Jewish literature. That's my, that's my bag, right?
And, and then I guess my, I think people were upset with, uh, how emotive I guess I can get
when speaking about Jewish literature. But, but when you commit your life to reading stuff and to
studying stuff, it's easy to get, it's easy to get emotional about it. I mean, anybody, I have a course,
by the way, on like, Israelite religion. And I think anybody who actually has bought the course
and watched it will see that I get kind of, I get kind of worked up about this stuff. Um,
yeah. So you're, you're very passionate, but, but I, I, I have to just say that this is, I think
this is, this is where I think I kind of warned you against this whole subject at the start,
not saying, but because people take this so personally, but again, and you're like, look,
I'm just critiquing the, the one section we are not even critiquing it as a whole. You made this
very clear. Uh, but of course, even myself, I'm like, let's bring this, like, how does this affect
the greater theory? I don't know that it does. Like I, so I personally think that, that it makes it
more difficult for the case to be made. If you can't ground it more certainly within early Jewish
expectation, that's my personal feeling. Um, but I, I mean, that's up to, that's up to people to
the side. All I'm interested in is whether or not, uh, the Jewish literature is given, it's
given, it's, uh, that's the word I'm looking for.
Like Dane Court, it's correct. It's correct. Yeah. Given its day, given, like, like has the
literature spoken for itself? And this is something that I found very frustrating through the,
the section of the book that I have read, which is on Jewish literature. Um, is that
there's plenty of suggestions about what the texts say. There's a handful of summaries of what the
texts say, but there's never any actual direct citations or quotations of what the texts actually
say. And I think if, like, I, I was, uh, I've approached the videos in the way that I would
have as a peer reviewer. And if I was peer reviewing this book, this is what my recommendation
would have been. I would have said, uh, cite the, cite the texts, show us what the texts say,
then talk to us about what needs to happen in the text in order to get them to the point,
in order to arrive at the point of having them say what you want them to say.
And I guess maybe, like, maybe now is a good time to talk about, I'd hope to talk about, um,
something that I know a little bit about. Um, I don't know much about much, but I know a little bit
about, uh, the Dead Sea Scrolls. And, uh, in particular, uh, one of the texts that, that, uh,
Richard Marshalls, in his, uh, um, in his hope to establish, uh, the presence of a suffering,
dying messianic figure in early Judaism is 11 Q 13. So, um, yes, godless engineer,
I've read all the footnotes and I have to say I'm not altogether that impressed with a lot of them.
But that's, um, that's the one, I know that you haven't seen, I know that you haven't seen any of,
the live streams, Jane, Richard, or any of the videos J is put out, but the biggest,
the biggest point that they seem to make is that you haven't read the footnotes, but you're saying
you have read the footnotes. I, I have, and I'm not, and it is kind of a confusing, uh, it's kind
of a confusing critique on my part or sort of a confusing critique from, from my perspective.
Um, I think, uh, one of the,
uh, and I, a lot of this conversation too, I think has to do with, and another one of my
critiques of the work itself is that my sense of the way that Richard is approaching early
Judaism is, um, it feels like he's approaching it like an evangelical Christian actually.
Um, it's kind of a, I mean, I hate to say that. No, I don't want to say that.
Um, that's, that's a low blow dude. That's a, I'm sorry, man.
No, no, no.
Like how do I, well, I mean, for example, and I get into this in the third video, you know,
it feels like, um, one of the things it feels like is happening within the book is,
he's making this big deal, this, this, this sharp distinction between, you know, the cosmic realm
and the mortal realm. Um, and crazy, like there's people, you know, in the cosmic realm. What's
that about? That has to be celestial beings because why would you have celestial beings in
the cosmic realm? And I mean, the fact of the matter is that like within early Judaism, this
was not all that odd or weird. This is something that normal people, it happened to normal people.
It's something that, that they did and, and wrote about apparently like within the Dead Sea Scrolls
community, within the Kumran community, they were convinced that they were regularly within the
presence of angels. These are ordinary people. Um, community angels.
So like one of the, one of the, um, uh, sorry, uh, the Kentucky Mule's getting to me.
So what, like, like one of the, um, one of the reasons for the, the extremely stringent, um,
um, purification rituals within the Kumran sect is because they are convinced that they're surrounded
by angels all the time. Within the war scroll, there's like a whole section of like purity
regulations that you have to observe because you just don't know if in the last days, when you've
pitched your tent in the camp of the sons of light, whether your camp's going to be next to your buddy
Harold or next to the Archangel Gabriel, you, you don't know that. So you got to make sure
that you are ritually pure in order to, you know, even be able to be in the presence of these
divine beings. And I, I get the sense when I read the book that that, that's not understood and it's
not clearly, uh, presented. But, um, I think maybe, maybe now is a good time to talk a little bit,
and this is something I do in my second video. Now is a good time to talk a little bit about
11 Q 13, the so-called Mochizidek scroll and some of my problems with Richard's representation
of 11 Q 13. So maybe I'll share my screen. Should I?
Great. Yeah, that'd be awesome. How, how does, how, first of all, how does Richard, um, Dr.
Carrier, how does he, um, how does he represent the scroll versus like first?
Okay. Should we read it? Yeah, let's look at it. Okay. So
here's the, here's the section, if I can ever find it, there we go. Okay. So here I have, um,
he's got a paragraph, uh, a couple paragraphs about 11 Q 13. And this is what he says,
but of the more specific notion of a dying messiah, we also have other pre-christian evidence in the
form of the Dead Sea Scrolls designated 11 Q 13 and Mochizidek scroll. Uh, he's got a footnote
there. Guys, I want you to make sure you see me checking this footnote, note 36. He mentions 11
Q 13, uh, call them to 18 to 20. It's actually fragment one, call them to 18 to 20. Uh, for the
scroll's text translation and notes, see Alex Jason, uh, who wrote an excellent book on, uh, on, uh,
prophecy within Second Temple Judaism. Um, and he, uh, is at New York University.
He's got John Seitz Bergma, who also wrote a very good book about, uh, the concept of jubilee
within early Judaism. Um, he's got, uh, I didn't actually get a chance to look at this one. Uh,
Christian, um, Mentzenthin, uh, is written the, uh, this, this, uh, this German book on, um, on, uh,
sorry, my German sucks. Um, Isaiah, it looks like Isaiah interpretations in the usage of
Isaiah and Corum. Also, uh, this text, uh, by my friend, uh, Martin Abeg, Messianic Hope and 4Q
285, a reassessment which was published in the Journal of Biblical Literature in 1994. Uh, and
then a, uh, an article published by, uh, Laura, uh, Gugli Ammo, 11 Q 13, Melchizedek, co-reference
and restoration of, uh, column two, line 18 in Hennok 33 and the response by, uh, Daryl Bach.
In the same, uh, issue Hennok, uh, by the way, is the publication of the Enoch Seminar, um,
which is, uh, a group of scholars and PhD students who get together like every year in, uh, it's
usually in Italy. Um, and they have a conference discussing aspects of Second Temple Judaism as
they pertain to, uh, Enochic Judaism. So that's the footnote. He's basically cited all these,
these different sources, um, for the text, uh, the translation and the notes
on this particular scroll. Uh, what was frustrating to me is that he doesn't mention
any of the textual, um, controversies with regards to this text. He assumes a lot. So he
continues, this is in Apocalyptic Peshir, a document attempting to discover hidden messages
in the scriptures by finding secret links among disparate and previously unrelated verses,
C elements eight and 16, for the coming Messiah to defeat evil and the end of the world. There
are many such Peshirim at Qumrat. This one tells about a messenger of Isaiah 52 to 53.
Importantly, as I point out in my video, when it comes to evaluating Second Temple Jewish literature,
in particular, with regards to their handling of texts, we can't assume just because a specific
verse from a larger section of text has been quoted that the writer intends to, or has a
developed theology above the entire section. So within the Melchizedek scroll, the only part of
Isaiah, um, the servant songs in Isaiah 52 to 53 that's cited is Isaiah 52 verse 7, I believe.
So, and all that tells us is that the author of this text was interested in what this particular,
literally this sentence had to say, regard, you know, with no consideration for the rest
of Isaiah 52 and 53. This is pretty common rudimentary stuff within early Judaism.
So right away, I would say it's a mistake to, um, pause it that this text is about the messenger of
Isaiah 52 to 53. No, this is about what Isaiah says about, or Second Isaiah says about the
messenger in Isaiah 52 verse 7. And that's it. Who is linked in Isaiah with a servant who will
die in a tone for everyone's sins. And I think that's extremely speculative, um, messaging God's
final victory, which as we have already seen later Jews definitely regarded as the Messiah.
Um, sure. But we're talking about the Jews at this period. At Krumer on 11 Q 13 appears to say
that this messenger is the same man as the Messiah of Daniel nine who dies around the same time at
the end, um, time and end to sin is said to be accomplished again, presaging God's final victory.
And that the day in which this happens will be a great and final day of atonement,
resolving the sins of all the elect after which 11 Q 13 goes on to say God and his Savior will
overthrow all demonic forces and all this will proceed according to the timetable in Daniel
nine. Thus 11 Q 13 appears to predict that a Messiah will die and that this will mark the
final days before which God's agents will defeat Belayal Satan, which I don't think is
an equivalent, um, representation and it's home for the sins of the elect. So, um, what Richard
doesn't tell you is that this particular reading of this particular text is highly controversial
and that the vast majority of scholars do not adopt this particular reading of this particular text.
So, um,
okay, I should probably just stop paying attention to the chat, but I want to show you,
I want to show you how this works. Okay. If I can,
um, that'd be great. I probably should have opened this up earlier.
Am I still sharing my screen?
Uh, no, but I'll bring it up when I can. Okay. Uh, when I, when I open it, I will let you know.
Okay. So, and I, I like to do this. So right away, I want to say, um, when it comes to fragmentary
manuscripts, like two things, fragmentary manuscripts are super fun because they're fragmentary
and you can kind of do what you want with them, right? Yeah. But then fragmentary texts
are super frustrating because, because you can never know what's actually going on in this text.
But as someone who has worked most of his life with fragmentary manuscripts, I will say that,
and I will say with regards to this particular manuscript, which I think Richard just gets
dead wrong, um, we can know for certain a couple of things, I think, or, or maybe not certain,
but I would say with, with a, uh, a substantial amount of confidence, we can know a couple of things.
Um, so I'm just going to, uh, bring this up here. Are we sharing my screen yet?
Yeah, I can share my screen. There we go. Okay. There we go. So, so here is, uh, the fragments in
question. Um, and I'm going to point out when it comes to reading texts like this, unfortunately,
the stuff that I have put the arrows in the question marks, like, we don't know what's there.
We can make educated guesses about what's there. And sometimes, um, the writers of these texts have
done us the favor of identifying, like in this particular text, there's a number of places
where the author has identified, uh, citations of previously known texts. So, oh, whoops.
I didn't realize my, uh, my computer is not plugged in. Sorry. Let me fix that.
Things have been really great, guys.
Technical difficulties has been the, the overjack. Yeah.
We're all good now though, because my computer is plugged in. So all this stuff is missing.
We have a good idea of what's there some of the time, because, you know, the authors
quoted or cited a text that we know. So, and we can, you know, fill the, uh, the blank space with
what's, what we think is there and it works. Yay. That's good. So, importantly, the, the, uh, the
author of this text has cited Isaiah chapter 61, uh, and then Isaiah chapter 52 verse seven,
which makes reference, which makes reference to, uh, Amesh Yakhaduah, the, uh, the anointed one
of the spirit. Um, and then he says, this is the same figure. Um, and I know, I know the
translation here gets, um, you know, it, it gets conjectural. Uh, this is the same figure, uh,
according to what Daniel the prophet says. And unfortunately we have, we have the beginning
of the name Daniel, but then virtually the entire quotation from Daniel
is very frustratingly missing. I've highlighted that. I'm red. Um, when it comes to reconstructing
this text, it's important. So here I've marked up the lines for us. Can you, can you see that
clearly enough? Okay. Yeah. So, and I've marked out importantly where we think the margins are.
You can see, remember you're reading Hebrew from right to left. So you can see on the right side,
a nice clean. It's supposed to be clean and straight, but it's an old manuscript. So it's
a little off. You can see the right margin where, where the scribe has begun his line. So notice
I've put in a second and third vertical line, yellow lines on the left hand side
to indicate the end of what I've identified as column two in the beginning of column three.
Can you see that? Okay. So this is what your column looks like. And this is everything that
you can fit into that column. You'll notice also when it comes to the left edge of the column
that it's not justified because of course it's not. The scribe is doing his best to
write between the margins, but sometimes he's going to go over. Sometimes it's going to be a
little bit under, but he's got a sense of where that margin is and he's trying to stick with it.
So based on these features, we can make educated guesses about what's in the available space.
So, and let's be honest.
The scribe could have written anything he wanted there. For all we know, why does it say, oh,
there we go. Sorry. I just plugged in again. That should be good. For all we know,
the scribe could have written this. Can you read that, David?
David will have a YouTube channel and what does that say? Never mind. That says that actually is
Danielle in Hebrew. Oh, okay. And he will cut anyone off who drinks too much. Yeah. So, I mean,
that could have been there. True. Right. I mean, there's the teapot orbiting Saturn. Yeah, there
you go. It could be one. It might be problem. And this, I'll make a point of this too. This is
at least, you know, is also taking into consideration the meaning of the verse in Daniel 926, where
it says the Messiah will be cut off. Right? And you're a messenger. You're a messenger delivering
information to the people all over the world. I don't know. So, that's, I guess, possible on some
levels. It would be very surprising to me. It'd be very surprising. Not only is it unplausible,
because it's talking about me in English, but it also goes across the modernness.
Yeah, right. So, the scribe probably didn't write that. Okay. Most scholars think that the scribe
wrote this. And what this is, is a reference to Daniel 9 verse 25, which says that it says until
Messiah, the prince, it is
seven weeks. And then it goes on to talk about the bearer of good news.
Okay. So, that's what most scholars think is there. Now, you'll notice with this citation
of the text, there is no dying Messiah. Can't be there. It's not there. Okay.
It has been suggested by some scholars that it's actually with reference to verse 26,
which says after, sorry, too drunk for this.
After 62 weeks, the Messiah will be cut off. Do you see a problem with this reconstruction?
Yeah, it's red, where the rest is black. No, no, it goes right across the margin.
It's just too big. So, it doesn't work. It doesn't fit. I've seen a number, a handful
of arguments from scholars for positing something like this, but I don't find any of them
convincing just because the space, it's not a lot of space. You've got at best five words to work with
to talk about what's going on here.
Let me just, for people in the chat, let me just reiterate this, that probably you should have
read it already even stronger before. Rishikari, as he said, note, by the way,
all he's talking about is just a single paragraph on the history of Jesus,
which I don't use as evidence against the historicity of Jesus.
I don't care.
This doesn't matter. We're not critiquing the book.
My complaint is that you've misrepresented the text, Richard. That's my complaint.
And it's not the only one. You've misrepresented plenty of these Jewish texts.
That's the problem.
So, this is the, Kip is just focusing on one thing, which is his area of expertise.
So, that's, I just want to make that clear for everyone, which is what Rich is pointing out,
which is what I should have put in that clearer before, but yes.
Okay. And maybe this doesn't matter to many people, but this matters to some people.
This matters to me as a specialist in early Judaism. This matters to my colleagues
who are specialists in early Judaism. We would prefer if the texts are properly represented
when people write about them. So, I've actually suggested, because this is a bit of a,
this is a bit of a quandary, and it's, and it's gotten me interested in this text
again. And one of the guys, another Second Temple Judaism scholar who's actually
doing some work on this, and I just, right now, he and I have been chatting back and forth
about this text. I actually suggested my own possible reconstruction for this text,
which is always dangerous, just because, like I said, it could be, could be almost anything.
And I've discovered this too, as somebody who works on fragmentary manuscripts all the time.
Something I have discovered is when you actually do find out what the missing text means,
I'm not kidding. 99% of the time, it's different than what you guessed it was.
It's crazy. Like, yeah, I'm not kidding. This happens constantly. Actually, when it came to,
when it came to the forgeries, the Dead Sea Scrolls forgeries and private collections,
one of the things, I mean, there was a, there was a, you know, if people are interested,
there was a, there was a documentary on Nova about this. There've been a number of articles written
about this. So, but there's, I mean, there's a pile of evidence for why
the fragments in Skoyans and the Museum of the Bible and this is specific in Southwestern
are modern forgeries. But one of the things that was tipping us off was the fact that
many of the places where these fragments filled in missing gaps of, you know, text for which we
didn't have ancient witnesses, like they, they magically aligned with suggestions that were
made by modern scholars for what was missing in the text. I remember clearly, one of my colleagues,
his name is Orstan Usnes, was working on the, the books of Enoch and the fragments of Enoch from
Kumran. And he kept on telling me, as he was working on these, he said, so the guy who, who
did all the definitive work on this up to like the 1980s or the 90s was a brilliant, brilliant
Skoroskuller by the name of JT Milik, a Polish scholar, a legitimate polymath, like just a
super brilliant guy. And Orstan kept on telling me in our, you know, just daily conversation,
as he's working through these fragments, he's like, I can't believe what a genius JT Milik was,
because he's got all these places in his reconstructions of Dead Sea Scrolls fragmentary text,
where he's made, he's made suggestions of what he thinks is there, right, in the fragment.
And he's like, right, 100% of the time, because we've got these fragments now,
which contain this text. And oh, look, it aligns perfectly with what Milik suggested. Yeah, you
know, this is a, this is kind of an on the nose indication that this is, there's something fishing
about this fragment. So all that to say, it's always dangerous when it comes to making your own
suggestions about what might be there in the text. So I have actually suggested that I think this
aligns somewhat closely, it's a little bit awkward in the Hebrew with what the text, I think this,
this, this aligns with the spirit of what the whole text is about, which I think is important.
This text is about calculating the end of the age, and things that are going to happen leading up to
the arrival of this, this figure, Melchizedek, who will in some way, make atonement for the sins
of the elect, at least possibly the whole world. So with that in view, I think
this is a better representation of what was probably in this fragment.
And the reason I like this is because it focuses the attention on what the rest of the text is
about. It's about the calendar. So what I've suggested is, this is the messenger, the anointed of the
spirit, according to what Daniel the prophet said, after seven and 62 weeks, and there will be
an announcement of good news, because it sets the focus on the key thing for the author,
which is the time period, right? So as one of, as, as my, my friend and mentor,
Marty A. Begg said, with regards to this text, which is an article that Richard supposedly read,
because he cites it, Marty says, because he, you know, he adopts the majority reading, as
most scroll scholars do, they adopt a reading which aligns with Daniel 925, as opposed to Daniel
926. And Marty says in his article that he wrote in 1994, with regards to this particular manuscript,
we should not be making definitive statements about what this text says based on what's not there.
I think that's super key. So, and that's basically what, what Richard is doing in his invocation
of this text by calling it one in which, where does he say this again? So,
which presents the specific notion of a dying Messiah. Yes, he hedges this, he says it may be
there, it may not be there, but I don't think, I think a better approach would be to present the
text, to discuss the issues and let people decide for themselves about what's there in the text.
So, and honestly, that's, that's my biggest problem with a lot of this is just the misrepresentation
of what's actually in the text, or what they actually do say. I think it's important.
With all due respect, maybe, like a lot of, to Richard, is a lot of people, I hear a lot of
complaints that people don't understand your work, or they're, or they're misunderstanding it, or they're,
you've said in the comments about 10 times, not about 10 times, it's popular, but you said a
bunch of times that people are misquoting your work, misusing it, not understanding it, don't,
don't read the footnotes. I don't know if on the history needs a rewrite, so that people can
understand it, but like, it's either that people are being bad faith in reading it, or that the
message wasn't portrayed clearly, because this, this seems to be an ongoing criticism of anyone
that critiques any one part of your work is that they don't understand it as a whole criticism.
Yeah, so just, just, just cite the text, show us what they say, and then work us through how you
arrive at your, at your readings, because I, I don't know, I feel like, Richard is complaining
that I, I, I missed something, and I wish he could show me what I missed here. I mean, he says that
this is, you don't cite the text, Richard, you should probably cite the text.
Because as my understanding, Richard does cite the text in other places, just not in the places
that you've been pointing out are contentious, right? Yeah, I certainly not, I mean, I, I, I'm
frustrated that, that he didn't actually cite the Talmudim texts, which he depends on, I'm
frustrated that he didn't actually cite Wisdom of Solomon, which he depends on, I'm frustrated
that he didn't cite 11 q 13, which, you know, he depends on to make his case. And I don't,
like I said, I don't care about whether this is anything, you know, any bearing
on the validity of minimum Methodism, that's another issue all together. I'm just interested
in the representation of the Jewish literature, and I think it's poor.
Well, one thing that I spoke about, I've totally forgotten everything we talked about.
So here, okay, so, listen, yeah, I mean, he has, he has mentioned this here, not all
scholars have recognized this in 11 q 13 or conceded it. Yeah, but what's there and what's
not there, Richard, like, have you discussed the reasons why people haven't conceded this,
which I think are important. And when you get to the reasons, and I think it's important to know
that the vast, vast majority of scholars who actually work with these manuscripts, these
fragmentary Aramaic Hebrew manuscripts in the Dead Sea Scrolls are in large agreement
about what this text does and does not say. And that's, that's the discussion that I think is
missing. So one of the things that we spoke about, I spoke about with,
with Norse conformant was Isaiah 53 in the, because, because it was like the, it was,
it was a little bit of a slam dunk to the, to kind of find out that Isaiah 53 isn't talking
about a Messiah that Isaiah 53 isn't talking about. But the suffering servant isn't the Messiah,
it's actually Israel. That was kind of like one of the first things I learned when deconstructing
my faith. But mythists say, no, no, no, Isaiah 53 is talking about a Messiah figure that's coming.
It's very interesting to me. You know, that's the other thing that I find quite interesting is
many mythists, like many of the same arguments I see coming from mythists are those that are
echoed by evangelical Christians with regards to, in particular with regards to Isaiah 52 and 53.
So, and sorry, I interrupted you. No, no, I was just going, no, no, you're fine. I was just going
to just ask about Isaiah 53 and, and the, the text Sanhedrin B, which, which is part of the
Talmud, which you discuss in video one, I think it is, which by the way, guys, check out, like,
if you haven't, I'm sure most of you have, and you hear, but if you want to deeper dive into
this kind of stuff, his videos on this are great and you're about to release number, you've just
released two and you're about to release number three. So, yeah, number two just been released,
number three is coming out soon, hopefully. If you don't get bullied off the, of the incident.
I might.
But I said, like, it is so much, this, this, this, this, this, this subject just invites
so much drama and, and if anyone needs evidence for that, look at the comment section. But,
but yeah, so with Isaiah 53, like, is in your, in your perspective as a scholar,
is the suffering servant in Isaiah 53, the Messiah?
So one of the things that I think is important to point out is when you say Messiah,
people have like a preformed idea of what that means. And I made this point in a number of my
videos in a number of my live appearances that for a text to be, you know, to be considered
messianic, there's nothing particularly, you know, it's, it's not a, a magical thing. Like, it's not
virtually any text that any Jewish person found useful with regards to their expectation of the
Messiah was then considered messianic. So that's the first thing. Now, the way
in which early Jews read many of these texts in terms of their messianic import is also really
important. One of the, so we, I would say that in the pre-christian era, we just don't know.
Based on what we have from the texts and how we're dating a lot of these sources,
it's really conjectural. So a lot of people will point to echoes of Isaiah 52 and 53 in some of
the Kumeran texts, which appear to be messianic. And again, it's really conjectural. It's not clear.
There's ongoing debates among scholars within the guild about, about this. I personally tend to
think that, and what, so I'll say one other thing about, about Isaiah and the Dead Sea Scrolls. So
this was a, this was an apocalyptic Jewish movement. This was a group of apocalyptic
Jews who were actively convinced that they were living in the last days and were mining
the texts of their scriptures to, you know, tell them about what that meant.
One of the interesting things that we discover when we look within the Kumeran literature
and how they are handling, in particular Isaiah 52 and 53, is that there's almost no reflection
on it. So, and I've always said, like, I mean, of course it's possible. And, you know, I have no
doubt that some of these connections were, were being made loosely by, I mean, we can't
account for everyone, right? So maybe there were these sorts of connections that were being made.
And I tend to think probably just on the basis of the fact that early Christians really latched on
to Isaiah 52 and 53 of the servant songs and applied them to the Messiah. But importantly,
like, the textual data is very, very fuzzy. Like, it's not, it's not clear. It's really not.
And, you know, one of the problems here, too, I think has to do with the dating of a lot of this
stuff. Richard leads into the Tel Medin, which are quite late. And as much as certain scholars
are keen to push many of these Talmudic traditions back farther than the pre-Christian period,
we just don't have the evidence for that. So it's an open question. I think maybe that's a good way
to underscore one of the things that I hope people come away from this with is recognizing that this
is a really, really complicated stuff. Like, it's not a hard and fast. It's not easy to do this work,
working in these, these early texts and with this early literature, right?
And frustratingly, we don't have simple, straightforward answers.
Oh, there's Rabbi Yonatan Ben-Uzio. I'm wondering when Godless Engineer thinks that
that dates to because, like, so something that that that Godless Engineer has brought up here
in the chat is the Targum Jonathan of the prophets, which is an Aramaic translation
slash paraphrase of the Hebrew Bible. The Targum Jonathan is dated to, I mean, Bruce Chilton has
done a ton of work on this. And he at first proposed layers within the Targum Jonathan
and suggested that the earliest of these layers exist somewhere between 70 and 132 CE. So this
is still post-Christian. Those are the earliest layers. I just, I, if that's like, it's still super
late. And moreover, I encourage people to go and look and see what the writer is done with
the servant songs in Isaiah 52 and 53 in Targum Jonathan, because he sure is not a
suffering servant. Yes, it's messianic in that somebody has adapted this text to speak about
the last days, which is not unusual. This is something that Jews did with all sorts of texts.
But he's now suddenly turned the suffering servant into this triumphant,
this triumphant royal figure who's kicking everyone's ass. Well, this, this, this is,
yeah, this is something that I found confusing, because if this is supposed to be
pre-Christian ideas, and we don't have anything for pre, so, okay, let me just share my screen.
So I know that you don't watch, you don't watch any of these videos, but GE did a video on you.
Oh, about this, okay. And I responded because I watched it last night to try and get some notes to
brings questions. And I said, Hey, John, I have no dog in this back and forth.
And it's so no dog in the fire, I guess. But as long, but as you might know, I'm interviewing Dr.
Kip shortly. I was watching this video to prepare some tough questions for him. And I liked what
you said about Sanhedrin 98B. I looked up the dating of the Google and Google seems to suggest
it's 300 to 600 AD. That is, well into Christianity's history where the ideas wise are 53 being about
the Messiah were commonplace. My question, is it accurate or do we have nonverbal sources
prior to Jesus? The Talmud dates late, but records early traditions of the Jewish rabbis.
You can even ask Kip this, but the Talmud records rabbinic discussions on Scripture,
going back to 20 BCE time period. Those texts or old teachings aren't available to us in
now except through the Talmud. So while it does not date, it records earlier teachings.
But my problem with this, and maybe you can talk a little bit about this and I'll shut up, but
this is a very specific like piece of Scripture that's used to talk about Isaiah 53,
and the Messiah figure, sorry. You can't then say there's one Scripture written,
again, between 300 to 600 AD, which is what, I don't know, this could be wrong,
but this is what Google seemed to suggest to me, and I've got to listen to you and correct it,
that this oral tradition that has to be interpreted stuck around for that 300 years
wasn't influenced by Christianity, wasn't influenced by anything, and then we don't see it all through
the rest of the literature. If Isaiah 53, is this the only thing mentioned Isaiah 53,
or are there other sources that talk about this that don't have anything to do with Isaiah 53?
So listen, the Talmud are vast. It's not something I work with. I was actually really nervous
about publishing that first video just because I have friends who are Talmud scholars who I
thought might see it, and I was really concerned about how they were going to respond to,
did I get it right? They seemed to think it was okay. But I don't know about the extent of use
of Isaiah 53 throughout the Talmud, Dean. But one of the things I want to point out
is that while there may be some, some traditions recorded within the Talmud that you can date back
to the Teneidic period, which is, so I'm using a technical term here, this is the period of the
Mishnah, this is the period of the earliest rabbis, there may be some traditions that you
can date back that far. You certainly can't date all of them back that far. And I think importantly,
one of the things with it, and I mentioned this within my video, the first video that I did,
Sanhedrin 98b actually provides us with a sense on when we can set this particular
tradition with regards to Isaiah 53, because it mentions Judah Hanasi, Judah the Prince,
who was a rabbi and his student, the leper. So Judah the Prince lived between, I think it's like
one, is it 130 to 200? Let me just check my, I have no idea. I have no idea. So, but he's a second
he's a second century figure. So this particular tradition, I don't think, I think, I think if
you're going to attempt to push that back farther, I'd like to see some evidence for that.
And I don't. So, and I know, like Richard has cited scholars to suggest that, yes,
you can push this tradition back earlier. And I would say, of the scholars that I've read,
on this point, I would like to see some better evidence for that.
Hmm. And again, this is a criticism unfounded in any type of expertise. But this, you know how,
like you see those movies, and someone's trying to work out who the murderer is, and they got like
lines and, you know, corkboard with all these different, that's the sense that that's what
this feels like a little bit. And something that GE said at the start of one of the videos is,
to him, it makes perfect logical sense. And he doesn't see why how anyone can't
essentially be a mythicist, because the message was kind of getting across. But for me, I go,
okay, well, if that's the case, there's a few options, either you don't understand it,
whether the historicity of Jesus fully enough in that you've been convinced of this, or
there is another motivation for why thousands of Bible scholars around the world don't even pay
attention to this kind of idea. And to me, that level of conspiracy is like moon landing levels
of like, you know, thousands of people working together in conjunction. You know, it just,
it just, it just seems, it seems a hard, very hard pill to swallow for me.
So, um, sorry, I was half listening, David. I wanted to, so Richard, Richard mentioned
a couple of sources, Martin Hangle and Daniel Boyer. And so I thought one of the things I think
is important to point out is when, because this is some of the pushback that I have gotten,
is that people seem to think I'm suggesting that Isaiah 53 isn't Messianic. And that's not the
point. I, I, if I made this point poorly, I'm, I apologize for that, but that's not the point
that I was trying to make. And the, one of the problems here is this term Messianic. What do
we mean by that? What did it mean to the people who read these texts in the first century BC,
in the first century CE? Because I think that's really where some of the disconnect is.
Like this notion that, um, yes, I will, I will concede that there's a possibility. And well,
I mean, we have the New Testament, which seems to make use of Isaiah 53 as a Messianic text
in the first century CE, right? So clearly somebody was making this connection. But what
did they mean by that? And just because they saw it connected to Jesus, does this mean that every
single Jewish person understood these texts or even the majority of Jewish people understood
these texts in similar ways. So one of the things within the, I mentioned earlier this,
this book by Alex Jason called Mediating the Divine, where he, he does like a deep dive
on the idea of prophecy within the Dead Sea Scrolls in particular. And I think one of the very
important discoveries that he makes, and I particularly like this idea from within his book
is that this term, Mashiach, which means anointed one, which comes to mean Messiah, within the
Dead Sea Scrolls, far and away, most of the time, this is with reference to prophets. This is just
a way you talk about prophets. So it's interesting when you read the scrolls, because you start seeing
Mashiach, Mashiachim, the plural form, you start seeing Messiahs popping up all over the place.
It's, it's a fairly well used term. And based on Jason's research, by and large, this is meant to
indicate prophets of Yahweh as anointed figures. The, the word itself just means anointed one,
right? So when it comes to reading a lot of this literature, it's an understanding what's going on
in it. Like when we talk about Isaiah 52 and 53 as messianic texts, sure, in that people read these
texts and saw elements within them, which spoke to their present day, or to what they understood to
take place in the last days. That's what messianic means. It doesn't mean that they always, or even
mostly, or ever understood the suffering servant to be, you know, the, the king that Yahweh was going
to promote to usher in the new age. There's all sorts of ways people,
boy, yeah, they work with these texts. And, you know, it's really, really complicated.
And it's not clear. What do you think about? Before we continue, should I,
I'm just wondering, should I get another Kentucky rule? Or should I?
Yeah, well, let's go. How about, yeah, get, get, get it, but how about we, and we can kind of,
I guess, finish off or like, kind of round out the interview talking about like dichotomy of
like what's happening on earth versus what's happening in, in the celestial realm?
Okay, sure.
No, no, we, we, if you talk a little bit about that, I guess, yeah.
Or do you have something you think I should get another drink?
Yeah, if you want to, yeah, we can do that. And I'll, I'll shout your stuff. So grab another
drink, I'll, I'll shout out your stuff. Guys, if you, obviously, check out, let me just
share the tab. Kip series is amazing, but he's also has this amazing series
on the Dead Sea Scrolls, which is really, really good. It's the kind of thing you just sit down.
Hang on, where was it? There was, yeah, there's someone who doesn't video edit and video,
it's on, on, on iMovie. Like this stuff is like really good. Look at that stuff. That's so cool.
So really great stuff over, over there. And Dr. Kip also has a chat, a course on MVP courses,
and there's a link in the description. And if you sign up through that link, it actually helps
deep drinks as well, because I'm an affiliate of the program now, which is really cool. Like
Derek's really helps out there. And of course, if you want to support this channel, let me
just show you, let me just show you guys the secret source. Okay. If you want to help support
this channel, deep drinks has a patron and the patron, I'm just dropping interview after interview
after interview. These are exclusive interviews that are only will only be shown here because
they're part of a raw, they're raw, they're unfiltered, they're, they're, they're nothing,
they're nothing polished. Okay. But they're interviews that we're doing for a little
Judy, Judy's in documentary. And this is the rough cut.
Can you give us like a, a, I guess an overview of who Abraham was and the Abrahamic covenant
in relation like something that you might say the quality is not the best right here, but
and then contrast that with history. So, so we got a, in other words, that's a sneak peek.
If you want to watch the full rough cut of the opening, you'll have to go check out the patron,
but a deep drinks documentary is coming out on the history of Judaism, which we really
cool, which has got all the, all got the kill in it. So go check that out. But with that said,
I think Dr. Kip is back with his, I am back with my, my second.
You got cool glasses. These, yeah, these are nice. Unfortunately, they went through the
dishwasher. So they're, it probably, they don't look as the, the voting on them or whatever rubbed
off and they get their metals. So like they're freezing cold when you're hot. But I wanted to
point out, so Richard in the chat mentioned Jason Staples, who talks about this. And I, I think
about the pre-christian ideas about the suffering servant. And I think, again, it's
pointing to, it's important to point out a lot of these non-scroll scholars who promote this idea
are depending on the way certain scholars are reading the scrolls. So, and again, like I'm
going to tell you, among scroll scholars, this is, this is pretty, this is pretty conjectural.
It's not, it's far from settled. There are plenty of scroll scholars who deny, deny, deny that there
is any suffering servant in, you know, pre-christian Judaism. But I also wanted to point out that he,
he mentions that Staples cites William Brownlee, the servant of the Lord in the kumrun scrolls,
who, and William Brownlee was my Dr. Potter, George J. Brooks, Dr. Potter. So he's like my,
my Dr. Gross Potter. He's sorry. What does that mean? Oh, so my, my, George Brooke was my PhD
supervisor at the University of Manchester. And William Brownlee was George Brooks,
PhD supervisor back at Claremont grad school in the 1980s. So, sorry, I just had to, I just
say that. So, yeah. Okay. What are we doing now? Well, I thought you could, so you mentioned at
the start actually that you gave a, you built a, when you're a PhD student possibly, you wrote
about the historicity of Jesus. Now, I know this isn't... Well, no, on the internet. Okay. Well,
well, like, what, how would you build the case for, I mean, and this is kind of separate to what
the main, main part of the stream is about, which is about Jewish texts, reading these early Jewish
texts. But how would you, how would you kind of talk about that historical Jesus in context of
what we're talking about? So, I think, I guess I would say that, sorry, with, I guess my, my,
my view, my vision of, of an historical Jesus is, as I mentioned before,
apocalyptic Jewish charismatic who came probably from Galilee, somewhere in the north,
who caused a stir in Jerusalem at festival time, got himself killed.
Um, I think we can know almost, or I think we can be, I mean, even saying we can know is,
is problematic, but I, I would say that's the best we can do from an historical perspective
of who this person was. But I think positing the existence of this person makes
certainly good sense of all the information that we have of the early Jewish background
and the bits and pieces that we know of early Christianity, in particular with regards to Paul.
Um, and I think that all of the third, third party external source material is easily explained
on the basis of their being an actual, an actual guy. So, now, having said that, I will also say
that like the, the gospels themselves are hugely, hugely problematic because they're
theological documents, they're not, they're not histories, right? And I don't, I don't think
there's anything within them that is particularly credible. Um, I'm undecided about a lot of it,
but bear in mind, I don't spend tons of time in gospel literature either, right?
Um, but I will say that when I read the gospels, there are some, you know, there's,
there's pockets of information within there. When I read it, I think, yeah, that makes,
that makes good sense within the Judaism that I know of the first century.
Hmm. And you mentioned this a little bit in the interviews that we did on Patreon and,
and, and you will be talking about it hopefully in the, um, it will make the cut on the cutting
room floor for the documentary, but that Jesus was, was, there was, um, you know, there were
different sects of Judaism, uh, at the time. And you kind of relate Jesus to one of the sects more
than the other. So there's, we talk a little bit about, um, about the Pharisees, who the Pharisees
were, the Sadducees, the zealots, the scenes. Uh, actually, do you want to give a quick overview
of those, of those different groups as a taster? And then we can talk.
Yeah. Okay. So, uh, within, I mean, so within, how do I start this? Starting from, well, I'm one of
the problems with the New Testament, with the gospels is that when you start there, uh, as,
you know, source information for early Judaism, you're getting, you're already getting a,
a problematic perspective. So people will notice that when they read the gospels, the,
there's, there's these, these Jewish groups, we have this, we have a fair, I, I mean,
I even hesitate to say that, but we certainly have a more monolithic version of Judaism in our
modern world. Um, and this is what was inherited from rabbinic Judaism. Uh, but,
but this is all stuff that happened after the destruction of the temple and the city of Jerusalem
in 70 CE. Uh, at that point, the, you know, there were, there were many,
many Jewish groups, Jewish sex, Jewish expressions, ways of expressing your, your
Jewishness. Um, I'll recommend, uh, at this point, I, you know, and one of my favorite books
currently on early Judaism is Yonatan's, Yonatan Adler's book in, um, I think it's in the
Anchor Yale, uh, resource series, series, um, where he tracks, you know, how far back we can trace
Judaism. Um, so, well, one of the things that we see is that prior to the destruction of the
temple, there were a variety of expressions of this worldview, this religion, whatever you want to
call it, this culture. Um, they go by various, uh, distinctions. We know, and, and we see some of
this within the Gospels. We know of the Pharisees. We know of the Sadducees, certainly. Uh, or I got
that backwards, didn't I? We know of the Sadducees and we know of the Pharisees, certainly. Uh,
the Gospels hate them both, uh, but they really, really, really hate the Pharisees. Um, so many
people, I, I think for a long time, uh, many people's perspectives of who the Pharisees were
were deeply colored by what the Gospels had to say about them. Um, but, I have, I have a family
member who likens them to the religious police of the, of Saudi Arabia. Yeah, you know, I,
I, that's such a, that's such a wrong perspective of who these people were. Like,
so this is, you know, this is the way the Gospels portray them, but, but the Pharisees were an
enormously popular, and they were a populist group. So prior to the destruction of Jerusalem,
the Jewish religion was centered on the temple, the sacrifices, the rituals. These
usually were controlled by a group known as the Satakites, the sons of Zedok, the sons of Aaron,
or as the Gospels and as Josephus identifies them, the Sadducees. Um,
so these were, this was a group of aristocratic, uh, Jewish elites. These were like the super
rich people, um, who, you know, were the power brokers in the region. Um, there were also the
ones who were the accommodationists with Rome, right? These were the guys who were, who were
making nice with the Roman emperor in order to, uh, in order to maintain some sort of, uh, some
semblance of Jewish sovereignty. Um, and they were fixed, you know, they were focused on the
temple, what's happening in the temple and, you know, uh, the, the, the ritualistic expression of
Judaism in the temple. Um, in very, very simple perspectives, we would identify these people as
conservatives, uh, which is a little weird too, because the, this is also where a lot of the
Hellenization that entered Judaism, this is kind of where I, where it came in. Um, so,
Phariseeism, um, as a movement is something that, and I'm gonna, I'm probably gonna get this wrong
in terms of the timing, but I, I, I think this is something that, that started to emerge in the
third, maybe the second century BCE. Um, and, and it was, it was a populist movement because,
and it was a way of addressing, uh, the question of how can we be Jews without being, you know,
temple worshiping Jews, because this was a huge problem. There's only one temple,
it's in Jerusalem. There's Jews now spread all over the, prior to the Roman empire, this,
there's Jews spread all over the Mediterranean world. Um, and even within Jerusalem and,
you know, the Yehud proper, um, your participation in the Jewish cult was extremely limited
when it comes to the temple. Not everybody can just go into the temple.
Not everybody can, you know, enter into the court of Jewish man, which is, you know,
as close as you can get to the temple, unless you're one of the members of this elite establishment
of, um, aristocratic Jews. So, uh, Phariseeism really started as a way of, um, answering the
question of how can we be, uh, observant Jews without being Sadducees. And through the Pharisees,
there came a, a concerted focus on what they, they identified as halakha, which is, and that's,
that's just the, the literal translation of that is something like walking. It's based on the,
the, the verb meaning to walk. Uh, this is how you enter into the way of performing, uh, Judaism.
And the way to do so, according to the Pharisees, was through strict observance of the Torah,
the, the, the, the, the, the first five books which were thought to have been written by Moses.
Um, and so what the Pharisees did was they developed a system of religious observance
based on the Torah, but adapted to, you know, current contemporary concerns.
Um, that's where it came from. So really, I want to stress this, this was a populist movement.
This was a movement of the people, which is why it was extremely popular. The synagogues,
uh, which were houses of prayer and study emerged from this movement of Phariseeism,
because you can't just go to the temple all the time. And this is sort of their, their, their
point and their focus is instead of offering sacrifices all the time in the temple, let's
focus on the Torah and let's focus on being observant in terms of our, um, our, uh, subscription to
the law, to the word of God for my future. So I would say, like right at the outset, the Gospels
get this totally wrong because they, they portray the Pharisees. And this is, I think one of the
reasons for this is because this is written, you know, after the fact in the post-temple period,
when interestingly, so one of the things that happens with the destruction of Jerusalem is
we've got all these Jewish sects. We've got the elites, the Sadducees. We've got the Pharisees,
this very, very popular widespread, uh, sect of, of, uh, uh, uh, Jews who are operating in accordance
with Chalacha. You've got the Essenes, who we know through the Dead Sea Scrolls. They're also mentioned
by Philo and by Josephus. Um, and they're, they're probably more similar to the Sadducees of the
Sadducees than they are to, um, the Pharisees in terms of their thoughts on, uh, ritual purity and
the, the crucial significance of the temple. Very interestingly, one of the texts that we have
within the, uh, the Dead Sea Scrolls is, there's several copies of something called the Chalachic
letter. The, the Hebrew, uh, title for it is Ma'aseim Ma'tsehathorah, which is some of the works of the law.
Um, and this is, it's, it sounds like a letter that was written to justify the, the, the, the
thought of this particular moment, these, the Essenes, um, in response to their opponents,
uh, who we tend to think are the Pharisees on the basis of how, uh, many of, you know, how,
how this letter is responding. So, uh, and basically what the Chalachic letter from
Kumeron is saying is you Pharisees are just way too soft and fuzzy in terms of your observance
of the law and, you know, the, the sacrifices and, you know, you're not nearly hardcore enough
for us. So you're probably on the outs. I don't, you know, I'm okay with God, but I don't know what
you're always going to do with you. Uh, so, you know, it's like, um, so this is the Essenes,
as far as we know from what Josephus tells us, what Philo tells us, what we read
within the Dead Sea Scrolls. And I need to point out that there is still also conjecture within
scholarly discussions about how, I mean, scholars think this, this is representative of the
Essenes, but also, you know, there were, there were, there were sects within the Essenes. So this was,
scholars tend to talk about the literature of the Dead Sea Scrolls as belonging to the Yachad
Essenes or the Kumeron Essenes, because this appears to be their particular expression of
Essenes Judaism, as if it didn't get complicated enough. And yeah, you know, there's, there's
other groups we have, we tend to think that there was a, go ahead. I was going to ask,
where was John the Baptist? What would he, what, where would he have fit in all of this?
He kind of sounds like in a scene, but I mean, we don't, it's not certain. He seems to have
a general, so one of the, what, what, it's been suggested that, because John the Baptist was,
preaching a message of repentance through ritual purification. And several of the things he said
echoes some of the, the main talking points within the, the, what we call the sectarian Kumeron
literature. Importantly, not all the Dead Sea Scrolls are representative of Essenism. Some of it
seems to be more broadly Jewish, and this is one of the, the very complicated questions
applied when it comes to assessing the literature and the scrolls. So, but it seems like John the
Baptist aligns most closely with the Essenes. And I think it's important to point out one of the,
so one of the reasons why within the New Testament, Jesus' opponents appear
to be the Pharisees most often. I think this is reflective of the fact that for whatever reasons,
the Pharisees are the only ones to have survived out of all these Jewish sects. The Pharisees are
the only ones to have survived the destruction of Jerusalem and the destruction of the temple.
Don't know why. Do you think that was, well, do you speculate that that was maybe because of the
blood of the sect? Could be. I think it probably has more to do with the fact that they were more
widespread across, you know, the Roman Empire, because there were Jews living, you know, all
over the place, not just Jerusalem and Judea. So that, I'm sure that had something to do with it.
But honestly, we just don't know. We don't know, we don't necessarily know why the Essenes didn't
survive. Yes, it appears that the Romans came in and sacked Qumran on their way to Mazzadah.
But there were other, you know, that wasn't the only place where there were Essenes, right? So,
I don't know what happened to the rest of them. But for whatever reason, the Pharisees are the
only ones to have survived the destruction of the Jerusalem temple. So for good reason, these are
the ones that the Gospels are addressing, or I should say, they're the right straw man
opponent for Jesus as depicted by the Gospel writers. But I also think there's probably some,
there's probably some historical currency here within Jesus' own social circle as an itinerant
Jewish charismatic. I hesitate to even use the word rabbi, just because I'm not entirely sure
that's appropriately, I think it might be a little anachronistic. But don't the Gospels
call them rabbi? They call them rabbi. But again, remember, these are really during the rabbinic,
you know, after the emergence of, or in the nascent emergence of rabbinic Judaism, right?
So all that to say, the reason why Jesus' opponents are always, or most frequently the
Pharisees, I think, has a ring of historical truth to it, because these are the same people that he
would have been encountering within his ongoing ministry. Because the Pharisees were widely
popular in all, they seem to have had a substantial impact on every social,
what do you call that, every class of Jewish society, they affected, you know, there were
high priests from time to time who were Pharisees, not always, but it happened, right? So,
yeah. There we go, early Judaism. We have a few super chats, most of them are toxic, so let's get
to those. Yeah, let's do all the toxicity, let's get it out of here. Okay, so I just want to,
this is the probably the, it's in the top three of the most toxic streams we've ever done.
The second most toxic was the debate between Eliot and Godless Engineer.
And the third most toxic. This is more toxic than that. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's in the top
three. And the other one that was just as toxic was when Godless Engineer and Casey, his partner,
came in to bully him when Eliot was on his own channel. So every time there's been drama,
it's been the mythicists, especially Godless Engineer, especially Casey,
coming in to call the person stupid or uninformed or doesn't know what they're talking about. So,
I don't know if I'll continue on this mythic stuff, although people seem to like the drama.
I haven't been paying attention to the chat, but have I been called stupid and uninformed?
No, people have alluded to that. They called Eliot stupid, but the people have been
alluding so that you don't understand. Oh, I don't understand. Okay.
There's a lot of people who say that you don't read the footnotes or what.
Look, honestly, if you want to insult. If you look closely at all the sources that were within,
I don't know. Let's, if you want to, if you want to us to engage with the insults,
Super Chat Amara, Vashanti, and then everyone clapped. Thank you for the two-door Super Chat.
Richard Carrier, hello, David and Kip. Love the show. Sending you some support.
Calm talk over drinks. Yay, I'm on some Balveenie at the moment. Thank you for the support, Richard.
Oh, Richard, you're not drinking Kentucky mules.
David, thank you for the five-minute Super Chat. What does Dr. Kip think of
Eli Bernbaum at the Bern, Bern, Bern, Bern? Bernbaum.
Currently reading his history of Jewish people. That's a good question.
Yeah, I, I haven't read his history of the Jewish people, but Bernbaum does a lot of good work.
So, I mean, yeah, I think he's good.
Awesome. And I've reached out to, you know, who, so, you know, I'm hoping to hear back soon.
Thank you for the final Super Chat, D. Richard. Again, thank you so much for the final Super Chat.
Kip, may I include you, my list of scholars who agree, peer reviewed, not crank.
Mythicism is at least plausible and should be taken seriously.
I think the plausible and seriously part are two separate things.
So, I hope you can appreciate my hesitancy to say yes.
Because I have, I have noticed how these things kind of go. I've seen this list of scholars who
at least admit, mythicism should be taken seriously, used as a bludgeon to promote the idea that,
that the case, as it's presented within OHJ on the history of Jesus, is one that
has traction within scholarship. So,
like, I'm going to say this. So, and I mean, I really, I really hope I know this is going to get
taken away out of context, because this is the kind of, this, it's YouTube guys, this is what happens.
So, let me say this. Of course, it's plausible that there was no historical
thesis. People are going to clip that. Of course, it's plausible.
It's like a young creationist clip the quote by Darwin, like,
I can't understand how I have the eye work. So, yes, of course, I mean,
because I'm somebody who's very, very serious about history, and I'm very interested in history,
and I want people to take history seriously, we have to be open to all of these questions.
And I've seen this recommended to me, and I'm going to look at it. I haven't. But somebody has
suggested that Thomas Brody's, his view of a mythic Jesus is actually fairly compelling and
interesting. So, I haven't looked at that. And I feel like I probably should. So, I will say,
of course, mythicism is at least plausible. And yes, it should be taken seriously.
Insofar as we're continuing to ask this question, and we're continuing to check up on our usage of
the sources and our evaluation of the literature. Unfortunately, I'm also going to have to say
that I don't think Richard Carrier's theory of Christian origins is particularly convincing.
And I think it's got substantial problems that are, for lack of a better word, fatal
beyond what I've talked about here. So, I will say yes, this is something we need to
continue asking questions about. But importantly, people also need to recognize that I tend to
think that there was a guy at the start of Christianity.
Because when I look at the evidence, that's what strikes me as most convincing.
I can make good sense of what's there, certainly relative to what I'm most interested in,
which is early Judaism and how the early Jewish texts in the Dead Sea Scrolls fit into this
amazingly complex web of religious expression in the first century. Am I starting to slur?
No, I think you're okay. I will say that someone needs to write a blog post on some forum.
Kip Davis now in Memphis's question mark as the title of the...
Yeah, man. It's coming. With everything that I've seen this week, the past two weeks,
I have no doubt this is coming.
Also, yeah, the best way to make someone do something is to fully them into the...
Richard.
Yeah, that's good. And Vesper, thanks for not wandering on Super Chat, is minimal historicity
to mythicism a giant leap? I like to answer this as well, because I think what they're saying is
that is the story of Jesus being someone, and then most of the stuff that he did is recorded,
is kind of theological, is not real. The idea that we have of Jesus in our heads
is so different to the actual historical Jesus. Is there much of a leap between that?
And I think there is a huge leap between that and the minimal mythic position.
Huge leap.
I have to think that through a little bit, because on the one hand, it feels like yes,
but on the other hand, it also seems like maybe not.
But, importantly, I think one of the things that undergirds early Christianity, and is maybe not
something that, I think one of the things that undergirds Christianity that contributes to
its momentum, I guess over time, is the development of martyrdom, which I think is rooted in tragedy.
And I'm getting super drunk philosophical.
People should just go eat dinner now.
And I guess this is one of the questions that I have when it comes to positing
even the idea of this cosmic, I guess this cosmic Christ figure as it's portrayed in
Richard's theory. One of the things that I have questions about is why on earth
this would have been objectionable to anyone within early Judaism.
Like the way I see it, I think the first Christians were a Jewish sect of some sort,
and most likely had much more in common with other sects of early Judaism than they did
with Paul's version of Christianity. But I think as Paul's version of Christianity began to spread,
this idea of martyrdom kind of came with it. And I think that is in, well, he tells us,
this is inextricably connected to the idea that Jesus was crucified. But I'm not an expert.
Don't listen to me. Go listen to people actually know what they're talking about.
Mm-hmm. Like Deep Drinks. Subscribe, everyone. I know everything. David's got the answers guys.
It said so. I showed you. It said so in 11 q-milk isn't it? Yeah, that's true. That's true.
The other suggestion here, Kip Geodinic carry is grounding his background knowledge
in existing scholarship. So this is for another clip, I'm assuming.
It's got shorts in there.
So I guess, this feels like a gotcha, right? But I don't know. I don't like whatever.
Uh, so, I mean, kind of. But by the same time, by the same token, I also feel like
where Richard has cited secondary literature, there are many times that I don't feel
like, and I'm sorry about this, but my sense is that the citations don't accurately represent what's
actually going on in the sources themselves. So I, yes. And I guess, I mean, I guess you could say,
hold on, David, like, I guess you can say, you can, I mean, there's all sorts of crap
that's grounded in existing scholarship. Oh, geez, I just did that. And now somebody's going to go,
oh my God, Kip, did the existing scholarship with regards to, like, Boy Aaron and Shilton and all
these guys shoot. This is so hard. It's hard to make a big drink, so it gets hard, yeah.
Right? Like, sometimes I feel, so I'll say this, sometimes I feel like Richard doesn't have a strong
grasp of what's going on in the conversations as they're taking place within the Guild. And
it's understandable given that he doesn't have, like, he doesn't have training in
the scholarship of the Guild. So of course, you wouldn't totally get exactly what's going on
there all the time. Like, it's, you know, I mean, nobody can do that, right? Nobody can be an expert
in everything as much as they, you know, might think they can be. So, I mean, honestly, John,
this is a difficult question to answer, because you can, you can, you can spin this like a million
different ways. So I'll say, I guess I'll just say kind of. Kind of, yeah. Kind of, right? Like,
it's there. And he's citing his sources. There are lots of times I don't think he's citing them
correctly. And I feel like they're not always being accurately represented. So, yeah.
Look, I have a, I don't know if this is the same, but I have a marketing degree. And in my marketing
degree, we, we had a lot of assignments. And what I would do if I was stuck with sources,
is I would use sources that are used in previous assignments that talked about like grand identity
or advanced consumer behavior or something. And I would incorporate that into what I'm saying.
And it speaks, I'm speaking about a specific, but what I'm referencing is much more broad. And
that's, is that similar to what you think is happening here? That you're getting these like,
you're getting- Oh, god damn, David. Sorry. I stopped listening to you halfway through.
So in, when I was doing my marketing degree, I would really, I would, I would cite a source.
And I would talk about a specific, but I would cite a source that was much broader in context. So
I would like, let's say I was talking about like, you know, brand identity or, or, or brand equity
or something. And then I would cite a paper that talks about branding as a whole. And I would use
it to cite, like I would cite that paper. And then I would use it to kind of form my argument.
But if someone really was like being critical, like you say, well, well, this isn't saying what
you, this isn't saying exactly what you're saying. You're kind of interpreting it to say, like,
you're making a point. And then you're going and finding something that mostly agrees or looks like
it agrees that when you, when you look at it more clearly, more precisely, it doesn't say what,
what you think it's saying. Is that, do you think that's what's happening a little bit?
Sometimes, yes. I think sometimes, yes. So can you pull this one up? Because Richard's upset
that he says, this is, this is false. And it's annoying that I have to quote Boyer and
prove he said what he did. Look, yeah, you're right. I mean, Boyer and did say what he did.
But I have to point out that Boyer and the rabbinic scholar, who is beholden in many
respects to what scholars of early Judaism, which is a different thing are saying,
he's got a, so a lot, I mentioned this before and I'll say it again, like, when it comes to
many of these citations, and this is what I'm talking about when it comes, when I'm saying that
I don't necessarily think that, that Richard is the right person to be making this case because he
doesn't, for through no fault of his own, does not have adequate grounding in the field, because
he did something different for his PhD, right? But because, what was, what was his PhD in? Sorry,
just, it was in, it was, it was a history PhD. And he worked on, what was, what was his, I'm
probably going to get this wrong, but it says, did he publish his, his, his, what's it called?
Is, what was his, his dissertation on? Can we read it?
Something about the scientist, scientist in Greco-Roman, the scientist in Greco-Roman.
But it's not relevant to this. So it's not, it's not about Jewish literature.
And it's not about the New Testament. And so, I'll say Boyarin is beholden to what scholars
of the Dead Sea Scrolls and scholars, and what scholars of early Jewish literature are saying.
And I think, in many respects, he's wrong about, for example, I think Boyarin, I'll say this
outright, I think Boyarin is wrong about how early we can date some of these Talmudic traditions.
And the reason he's wrong about that is because he's reading scholarship on, you know,
what Dead Sea Scrolls scholars are saying about some of these very, very earlier texts. These are
our best texts when it comes to examining the shape of early Judaism.
And he's, he's fallen into a specific idea of what's going on there
without having a, at least this is how I'm reading Boyarin. I don't think he has a full appreciation
also of the, you know, the broader discussion. And maybe he should. And I also think,
even though he says, yes, this, this is a tradition, he's specifically talking about
Sanhedrin 98, but he says, this is a tradition that you can date very early.
I just don't see the evidence for it. I just don't. Like, and he doesn't ever provide any,
he just says it is.
Interesting. There's, okay. I'm sorry. We're going to finish up. We're going to finish what you're
saying. Yeah. Yeah, I'm, I'm good. Okay. Yeah. Okay.
A captain Deadpool said this, that's the problem with Kerry's argument. They're so
fluid that no matter what critique you offer, you can always say that's not my argument.
I would say that it appears that way.
Carrie, like I said, if, like, if you, if there was a way that you could
instill what you're actually saying in a, in a way that can't be
so ambiguous, I guess, that would be super helpful because the literally, and that was the go-to
when G was debating Elliot was, he was saying, you don't even understand the theory. You
don't even understand the theory. You don't understand. And then he asked Elliot,
a G asked Elliot to still man the position. And you can go watch the video. I then ask
G to still man his historicity of Jesus. And you can see that he did just as poorly, I would say,
as Elliot in still manning the position. The debate's still there. But I think it,
the, the, it swings both ways. And I think that if there was a,
if you could nail down exactly what you're saying in firm terminology,
even an A4 size, size of paper, you know, I'm making this argument based on this,
I'm making this like, like a syllogism that I don't know if that's how it works, but like,
that would be incredibly helpful to this discourse, I would say.
And I'll, and I'll, I'll say something on top of that.
I think, I think what are my biggest problems is that it feels like, and maybe I am missing
something, but this is certainly the impression I get from reading the book is like the entire
argument is based on this idea that there are lots of Jewish sex in the second temple period.
We know almost nothing about most of them. So it's possible. It's possible. Some of them could
have read wisdom of Solomon this way. And some of them could have harbored these sorts of ideas
that are reflected in the much, much, much later Talmud in the Targaming. And it's possible that
somebody read, you know, Isaiah, along with Daniel, as is presented in this reconstruction
of 11 Q 13, doesn't actually work because of the space issues and the, and, and, and the,
the issues of reconstruction. And I got to say, I just don't, I don't find that compelling.
Yeah. I mean, I have no, I have no expertise, but I don't find it compelling either. But I mean,
there are people who also have no expertise who find it compelling. So yeah, I mean, like I said,
G E said, that's very thing at the start of the other episode. We got a really good super chat
from hang fashy. Now, now last time you commented super chat and hang fashy, it became a viral clip
on this channel, because I was so, so drunk, I couldn't work out what, what you were saying.
So thank you for making this one more. Oh, look, I just agreed with Richard Carrier.
Okay. I didn't even say that. I don't know how. I honestly have no idea how I did.
I'm so confused.
But yeah. So hang fashy. Okay. I was blown away, I was blown away to learn that Satan was not the
name, but a title of an office in Yahweh's Divine Council. Is Messiah kind of also like that? Are
there any other office holders that we know of? So this is not super on, on topic, but it's very,
very interesting question.
So, yeah. Messiah, Mashiach, is the, is the proper Hebrew term and all it means is anointed one.
And it's really, really tricky because it follows an evolution that's not always consistent.
So it honestly depends on when you're talking about these things. I would say that, like,
it's used most, so in terms of just an historical sketch here, this is a term that is used with
reference exclusively to kings and priests within the, quote unquote, biblical period. And when I
say that, I'm talking about the, like, the pre-Israelite period. And all it means is anointed.
And it's with reference to this literal idea that, that kings and priests were, were annoying,
like, like they had oil poured over them as part of their commissioning ceremony or what have you.
So that's where it starts. Over time, after the Babylonian exile, sometime during the
Persian or the Hellenistic period, this term itself starts to develop
a new meaning with regards to someone's status relative to the representation of Yahweh.
As I mentioned, Alex Jason, I would recommend it, I mean, it's tough because it's a,
it's a scholarly book, but Alex Jason has done a lot of really good work on exploring the usage
of this term and in, like, in the Second Temple period. And I think he's right in falling on this
idea that during, you know, during the Hellenistic period into the Tasmanian period. So what we're
talking about is, like, Third Century BC through to, for a century BCE, it really seems like this
term starts to become used with reference to prophets as a way of describing their connection
to Yahweh as specially commissioned to deliver special messages from Yahweh to the people.
It's all very fuzzy, but at some point, you know, between there and the destruction of the temple,
this idea of, like, an anointed one as somebody who is a king, and actually, like, or there's,
there's this notion that there's, you know, prior to the destruction of the temple, well,
even after it, within a rabbinic Judaism, there's this idea that there's going to be multiple
masyachim or anointed ones. There's an anointed king, and there's an anointed priest, and there's
an eschatological prophet, somebody who's going to proclaim the end of the age who could be
considered, even though he's not always identified as such, I think relative to Jason's definition
could be considered an anointed figure. It certainly becomes a title, but it's, it's way too simple
to just say that's what it is. This is all very developmental, and it's all very complicated,
and like I said, it really depends on the time period that you have in mind here, and even then,
because lots of these ideas are fluid and developing, you're going to get conflicting
ideas about what a term means, even within an isolated time period from one sect of Judaism
to another. That's probably very unsatisfying as an answer. Hank Fashi, by the way, Hank Fashi
is one of my patrons, so... Thanks so much for supporting the channel. They've just become
a patron of mine as well. They're really engaging on Patreon and giving a lot of
pointers, and they're an artist, so they've been talking to me about that, which is really cool.
Hank Fashi must be very, very smart, and is making extremely good, well thought out
out of this. Yes, yes, yes, everyone should, everyone should follow Hank Shafi, Hank Fashi.
Go to the line on the chat. He should start a patron. Yeah, 100%. What do you think of
of the Osorys? Of the Osuaries. Osuaries. Okay. I suspect this has to do with the,
is it the Talpyot 2? So, for people who don't know, an Osuary is a box that measures,
I don't know, about like 70, 80 centimeters by 30 centimeters by, what is that? That's
like 40, 50 centimeters. If you're in America, if you're in America to you, if you don't know
what I'm talking about, then like, I don't know what to, I don't know what to tell you, but
so, these are. Can we place this, use Cubits. Cubits is the, what we use on DeepPix.
Okay. So, sorry, I lost my train of thought. An Osuary is a box that's made of plaster.
They were all the rage for probably a 200 or 300 year period between like the Hellenistic
period up until the destruction of the temple. I'm not sure if they, they continue to be used with
much consistency beyond then, but what happened was, wealthy Jewish elites would bury their dad
in a tomb and, you know, they would leave them there for like a year or two years. Yes, Rachel,
I am drunk. They'd leave them there for a couple years and after all the flesh and everything
decayed, they would, they would then go back and take the bones and deposit them in these smaller
boxes and then they'd store the boxes in the tomb. So, like a Jewish family tomb would simultaneously
have bodies within it as next to these boxes and the idea was based on, so the practice was
based on this idea that in the last days, your remains, your body would be resurrected and you
would be given a new life as like a person on earth. So, they held onto the bones so that
there was something there to, you know, to resurrect. Now, I suspect this has to do, there,
there have been a couple of sensational finds. So, first of all, I need to say there's Osuaries
all over the place within, within Israel. Like, I have stayed in the, in the King David Hotel
and I'm not kidding you, there's planters with like, like plants in them, like littered throughout
the hotel lobby and in the conference areas that are Osuaries. Like, I'm not kidding, they pulled
these out of, they're plentiful, they're all over the place. So, and yeah, go check out, go check
out the plants at the Jerusalem Hotel, at the King David Hotel in Jerusalem. It's crazy. So,
where is they going with this? So, most famously, there's a couple of Osuaries.
There was one that was promoted, this was, I think, around the year 2002-2003
and Antiquities dealer by the name of Odegolon sold this, this Osuary to the Royal Ontario Museum
in my home in native land of Canada and they featured it within their museum for like a year.
There was an, like a Society of Biblical Literature Conference that was actually
constructed around this exhibit at the Royal Ontario Museum because the Osuary itself had
an inscription on it. These boxes were oftentimes, you know, engraved with the names of the,
what do you call it, the person who's in the box?
The occupier of the Osuary, oftentimes that is name engraved. One of these Osuaries was engraved
with Yaakov Bar Yashua Barios, sorry, Yaakov Ahi Yashua Barios, Yosef, which translated means
James, brother of Jesus, son of Joseph. Whoa. Okay. Yeah. Right? So, and it was being promoted as
the, as the bone box of the, the Osuary belonging to James, the actual brother of Jesus.
It's a forgery. How are you going to say that? I am, sorry man. So, it, the inscription probably
originally read something about Yeshua Bar Yosef, Joshua, son of Yosef, which,
both of which are very common names from first century Palestine. And somebody then later on
inscribed, engraved this Yaakov Ahi, the James the brother of, right? You know, before it.
There was a huge, there's a great book actually, all about this. Sorry, it's behind my chair.
Nina Burley, she's a journalist. She wrote an excellent book called Holy Relics, I think,
which is all about the, the James Osuary and the forgery and the trial and all this stuff.
So, Oded Ghulam will tell you that he was acquitted. So, it must be real. Importantly,
he was acquitted on two counts of like 37. So, I'm probably going to get those wrong,
numbers wrong. But anyways, yeah, it's, it's this, this bone box is a forgery. James Tabor
and Sasha Yakubovich, who, I know some think that I'm a really big fan of Sasha Yakubovich,
because when I was a PhD student, I appeared in the background of a show
that Sasha Yakubovich did back in 2005 or 2006, when I was working in Israel.
So, no, I have no connection to Sasha Yakubovich, but Sasha Yakubovich, James Tabor and James Cameron
have popularized this idea that there was a tomb that contained osuaries. I'm not sure what the
plural of that is. I'll accept that it's osuaries. And these were all identified as belonging to
members of Jesus' family. You know, Joseph and Mary and Jude, I guess, I don't know.
It's, there's major problems with, with this identification. The vast majority of scholars
do not accept this identification. I won't take the time to go into the reasons why,
but I will simply say that we have no remains of anyone from Jesus' actual family, as far as we
know. And most likely, because Jesus is, Jesus and all the members of his family were actually
almost certainly not buried in tombs. Sorry, that was a super long answer, but
no, they ascended to heaven. That's what happened. So, guys, before we've got one last
super chat, or two last super chats, we'll get through them quickly, but before we do that,
subscribe to Deep Drinks. We have some awesome guests coming up, including Dr. Kip again,
to talk about creation myths with Paula Gea and Dr. Josh. Someone said,
you beautiful bastard, you've done it again. And I was like, I agree. It's great to have you guys
on the panel. Dr. Robin Walsh, which is going to be awesome about her book.
I'm so, hold on. Sorry. No, okay. Promote, Robin.
And, and of course, Dr, not Dr. Matthew, Matt Dillahunty, which will be awesome. Guys,
we also have, we also have an Instagram, if you're not following, which is something like, what,
all right, 72, 72 people follow it. You need to get on to Instagram and follow this account.
It is a goldmine of hilarious and amazing content from Deep Drinks. I am hilarious
and insightful and amazing. You need to subscribe. We also have a Deep Drinks Facebook page where
people can post whatever they want in regards to religion, philosophy, and human rights.
One might put a ban on mythicism because I'm so sick of the toxicity there, but
if you want to post some stuff here, this is a community where we can talk about,
talk about all things religion, philosophy, and human rights. But
yes, make sure you subscribe. So first of all, I'm 50 years old and I don't even know what Instagram is.
Secondly, I want to say I'm very, very excited. I don't even think you knew this.
I'm very excited for our stream next week because I mean, I've done a bunch of stuff with Josh
before live. I have never been on a live stream with apologia before.
Yeah. But I'm super excited about being on a live stream with both of them together.
Look at it. Like, so I literally be into the stream and I said with apology and I said,
you know, like people love the stream. And I was like, I was like, apology. I was like, look,
man, if ever you want on this channel again, like, let me know. And he goes,
I mean, he's deep, raspy voice. Well, you know, I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't have anything
since he deepens his voice artificially, which is so funny. And he goes, well, I always like doing
stuff with, I always like to be on a stream with Kip and Jordan and Josh. And I was just like,
I can make that happen. Yeah. So he said that. So I said, I said, yeah, I said, well, I said,
I'll make it happen. So I emailed him and I said, well, I messaged you, I messaged Josh,
that you both said, yes, and then I messaged him and said, look, I told you,
Oh my God, David, you're my new best friend. It's gonna be great. It's gonna be fun.
I made it. No, bring it up again, because I made a comment about this, but it probably,
like, you know, how, how the, they disappear, but like, look at that. Don't we look like a rock band?
Maybe not you, but like,
no. Yeah. Come on, guys. We're a rock band. Creation. I like about it. It's a new band.
I like that. With these panels, these are all the panels we do here. I put like, because I'm
on the panel, I'm a panel sometimes with my host, but it gives me a lot of credibility. Like, look
at this. I didn't put myself in the slavery one. But look at this. Like, I just like, I'm up here.
Hey, guys, look, I made it, mom. I made it, mom. So anyway. Okay, let's get this.
We should, we should. Lastly, super chats. And then we've got to
end up the stream. I've got to do a full day of work after this.
So no, the Edox seminar seminar recently held a peer review session on a book called
Messianic High Crystology, CNET. Thank you Qsauce for the awesome. Thank you Qsauce.
I have not seen it. And it feels like something that I should probably check out.
I am very interested in, in, in almost everything that you know, because I'm an R does. So
another, another thing I will mention is that weirdly, I have never presented at the Enoch
seminar. For people who don't know, I think I mentioned this earlier, the Enoch seminar is,
is a group of scholars who are really interested in Second Temple Judaism. And in particular,
in what's called anarchic Judaism, it's, it's organized, or at least it used to be organized
by Gabrielle Bocciccini, who was a phenomenal Jewish scholar from Italy. I think he's retired now.
I'm pretty sure he's retired now, but he started this. I've, I've never presented a paper at the
Enoch seminar, but I will say, so almost all of my friends have presented papers at the Enoch
seminar. And as a result, every year at SBL, I crash the Enoch seminar reception. I'm not sure
if I should, but I'm there like every year, mostly because my buddies are always there.
But, you know, maybe someday I'll get to the Enoch seminar.
Cool.
Thanks. I will, I will try and check that out.
Hey, there, another two to nine, nine, nine to be chat. Looks like you're in Australia.
What do you think of Secret Mark, also forgery?
So, yeah, this is probably not a fair question for me, because my predisposition is that everything
is a forgery. Yeah, well, you're the forgery guy, right?
Yeah, right. So, and I've been accused of this. This is something that I regularly have been
chided for. I'm not, I'm too skeptical. So, I tend to think, I haven't spent a lot of time with Secret
Mark, but based on the bits of pieces that I know about Secret Mark for people who are unaware,
I'm probably going to get this wrong, but I think it was Morton Smith,
was the discoverer of Secret Mark, which was supposedly a, you know, maybe it was a palimpsest
or a manuscript that he transcribed and then translated and then was suddenly lost,
as these things happen. Yes, thank you, Richard. It was Morton Smith. So, I, you know, I,
my tendency is to think that probably a forgery, because, but again, I don't think it's fair,
because this is my starting point. I mean, I, like I said, I think everything is a forgery,
and I try very hard to be sufficiently convinced about manuscripts before I accept them as authentic.
So, I have a question. And this is the last question. Okay. Is on the historicity of Jesus
a forgery or did Richard Carrier really write it? And is the Richard Carrier that's in the
YouTube chat, is that the real Richard Carrier or is that a forgery? Is that someone pretending?
I'm just kidding. I hope that, look, I noticed there was a, there was like a, I hope everyone's
cool. I have to say something though. I pretty sure it was Tim McGrew. You guys know Tim McGrew,
right? He's like this terrible, terrible Christian apologist. He wrote like a super,
he wrote like a super long article about whether or not Richard Carrier actually existed.
Well, really? Yeah, yeah, he did. That's funny. He really did. That's right, Richard, isn't it?
Yes, from McGrew. So yeah, I got to say, I will, I will, I will remain agnostic on that point.
I believe you. I believe Richard. No, it's not a forgery. No. So, you know, guys, it did get
spicy in the chat. I hope, I hope, like, honestly, I hate the drama, although it's brought in a lot
of viewers. So I hope you enjoy that. I find it interesting. I'm not personally convinced of
my thesis on myself. I don't know why everyone gets so up in arms about it. I can understand why
it's, why it's very frustrating that people don't, don't seem to understand the theory.
I also understand it's frustrating that people don't take it seriously where you feel like they
should, but yeah. But, but, you know, here we have deep conversations over deep drinks and
soon, very soon, I'm going away actually for a few days. And I'm going to be working on some
cool ideas and then we'll be coming back in six days for the creation myths episode. So everyone's
stick around for that. And of course, your course, which everyone should go subscribe to,
link to the description as well as the YouTube channel. If you want to hear more about this stuff,
YouTube channel as well. But thank you everyone for coming out. Yeah, absolutely. Oh, well,
what were we going to say? What were we going to say? Sorry. No, no, what were we going to say?
I'm sorry, I'm just way too drunk for this, but uh, um, no, I, I think the course is pretty good.
Okay, cool. All right. See you guys. Please check out the course. It's good. Awesome. All right, bye.
