Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcast, the deepest podcast on the internet.
The typical perspective of religion focuses on the beliefs and meanings derived from the
revealed scriptures, ideas and doctrines.
But is it the best way to look at religion as a whole?
My guest today is Professor David Morgan who led the way in radically broadening that framework
to encompass the understanding that religions are fundamentally embodied in the material
world.
Spiritual religion includes the things that people wear, eat, sing, touch, look at, create
and avoid.
It also encompasses the places where religion and the societal realities of everyday life
including gender, class and race intersect in physical ways.
Guys, I'm very excited about my guest today who is Professor David Morgan who is the Professor
of Religious Studies with a secondary appointment in the Department of Art, Art History and
Visual Studies at Duke University.
He chaired the Department of Religious Studies from 2013 to 2019.
David received his PhD at the University of Chicago in 1990.
He's currently Director of Graduate Studies in Duke's PhD program in religion.
He has published several books and dozens of essays on the history of religion, visual
history of religious, visual culture, oh my gosh, Fine Art and Art Theory.
His book, The Thing About Religion is a absolute must read for anyone interested in the study
of religion and I really mean that.
If you saw my book, Shelf Tour, he was a book that I recommended.
His book was the book I recommended.
Today we'll be discussing religion as a material process, the complex relationship between
the cognitive and material that is the human behaviors that comprise a religion.
Welcome Professor David Morgan to Deep Drinks Podcast.
Hey, it's great to be here.
It's fantastic to be here and you, you know, I have to say you chose a fantastic drink.
You're drinking whiskey sours, right?
Yeah.
I love the premise of your, great.
Yeah, so I've never had this before and it's delicious.
I must say I'm just a huge fan already.
Thank you everyone for coming out.
This is going to be an amazing episode.
So I actually wanted to start this conversation with a bit of a preface about how I found
your book.
So I was in Byron Bay with my family, Byron Bay in Australia and I went past this little
bookstore and we're in the bookstore and I was looking at all these like philosophical
books and they have a lot of arty books there and your book caught my attention because
for some reason, and it's not this expensive online.
So don't, don't ever on freak out, never want you to go buy it.
But it was like $75 Australian for this book and it's quite a thin book.
Let me tell you it's dense though.
And I was like, why is this book so expensive?
And I started reading the back of it and I was like, this, this looks like a book that
might be right for me.
And then I looked up some online reviews and I was like, this book really looks like it's
going to be right for me.
And then I bought the book and I would have paid double, triple the amount.
It is, it was paramount to my understanding religion better for myself.
It really shifted the, how I perceive religion.
Not in a negative way, but in a, in a way that made it more real, more tangible, more,
more human.
And I really appreciated that.
So and I think it's, I think it's an absolute shame that not everyone has read this book
that it is interested in the study of religion.
So let's, let's talk about your book and let's talk about material, the material study of
religion because to a lot of people that might be an oxymoron.
Yeah, it's true.
It's true.
I guess the first question is, what is your book about?
Well, it's about, it's very much motivated by what you were just saying, the, the fact
that this sort of default, not terribly thoughtful definition of religion is that it's a system
of beliefs.
It's an intellectual thing.
It happens between your ears.
It's the realm of just private opinion and, or even in your heart, it happens in your
heart.
Yeah.
And it's, I mean, I think if it's in your heart, it's even a little bit better than
if it's just in your head, you know, and, and that it's essentially a kind of discursive
linguistic phenomenon.
And that if you want to understand religion, you just have to read the scriptures or read
what people say they believe and then you've got it.
And I think this misses lived religion entirely and misses what people do with their bodies,
how they dress, how they eat, when they eat, where they worship, the way they pray.
I mean, physically, gesturally, how they do things.
It misses all of that.
And, you know, that, that is what I think the material study of religion wants to recover
for the academic study of religion.
It's not a form of doing religion.
I'm interested in the academic study of it and, and really understanding what it is
people do to keep their lives in working order, you know, materially.
So that's what it's about.
And that's also in some sense what it's, it's motivated by because I mean, if you teach
in a university system pretty much anywhere in the world, you get a lot of students who
are coming with a deep default definition of religion, what they were told by mom and
dad basically.
And the real pedagogical task is to engage that rather than treat it sort of like hands
off.
Well, I can't talk about that because that's personal.
And the best way I find to do that is talk about what they do, you know, tell me about
what you do as a religious person.
And then you can talk about space and time and practice and social relationships and
the things they adore, the things they hate, the things they're afraid of.
And it just starts unfolding and you get this much richer sense of religion as a lived reality.
It's, it, it feels like when you, when you kind of couple religion or someone's beliefs
with materiality, like a lot of religious, a lot of people who are religious would take
issue with the concept that there is materiality.
In fact, I grew up in a Pentecostal, like an evangelical style kind of church in Australia.
We didn't like the Catholics very much because the Catholics did a lot of what we called
material things.
They did, you know, they had relics and things like that.
We considered that no, God lived inside of us and that was, and we would, I would have,
I would have very much said no, there is no materiality now in our religion.
But something about your, something in your book kind of pointed out that's not really
the case.
You mentioned, was it, was it, I'm not sure if it was an interview or, or, or a somewhere
in your book.
I was trying to find it last night.
I couldn't find it, but you mentioned somewhere about people drawing like images of Noah's
Ark.
Is that right?
Like little kids drawing the images of Noah's Ark and putting them on the wall?
Or is that, am I, am I forgetting, am I getting?
I don't remember that.
I mean, I mean, this is a, but the practice you're referring to is, is absolutely common.
And what, what's happening when kids make drawings is there's a lot of important work
getting done psychologically as they talk, you know, and it's wonderful to talk to kids
as they do this.
And you see that this, this, these, for instance, the image making practices you're talking
about are richly engaged in imagination and thinking about safety, thinking about, you
know, protection and the order of the universe.
And it's there, often their way of thinking about nature, also thinking about the nasty
things that God's do, you know, they're not always nice.
And so these image making practices, among many, many others are, are critical, not,
not just to children, but to lots of folks as they negotiate the, the insanity of life,
the unfairness of life, the randomness of life, you know, you need ways of stabilizing
it.
And, and I think that's what things help people do.
So could you define what you mean by things and materiality?
Can you define that for us in a way that I guess people would like understand who maybe
pretend you are talking to old me who was in that church, he thought, no, but we don't
have material religion.
We have a relationship with Jesus.
What would you say?
How would you describe it?
Well, I mean, first of all, if, if that, I've been in that, that situation and yeah, you
know, some wall stories, I've asked people, you know, just to talk about their relationship
to Jesus and, and, and the more they talk, the more embodied it gets, the more deeply
felt it gets their language becomes very emotional.
And sometimes their language stops because they're in, they're in touch with feelings
they can't fully articulate.
And so that's, that's an embodied moment.
That's when you have to feel it.
As you say, the heart has to take over.
And you know, those are moments of deep emotional and embodied experience.
So that's a, that's a place to start with people.
But then if you talk more with people, they'll, they'll talk about the things they do.
I asked, I love to ask people, how do you pray?
And then the, and then, and immediately the head will go down, the eyes will close, hands
will come together.
Sometimes they'll talk about filing a place to kneel or at bedside, wherever.
And then they can talk about place.
Why is it important to pray at this place?
Sometimes the place can be, it doesn't have to be, but it can be, it can be important
or time, you know, there's a certain time when prayer is more compelling or, or is more
present to one's mind.
And as you talk with folks, you realize, they realize, and you learn how deeply embodied
their religions are.
There is a discourse in place that tells them, talking about Protestants in particular, but
not just Protestants, that true religion is about words.
It's about ideas.
It's about scripture.
But you know, they, they say that, but it's a kind of cognitive dissonance.
They're saying one thing.
But if you look at what they do, that has to be factored in, into the conversation.
And then they see things and start to realize, you know, this is very important.
I love it when I have Protestant kids in the classroom and they, we talked for instance
about things, you're asking me about things and I'll circle back to that.
And we talk about, I like to talk to them about icons, these, these special objects
that are somehow transparent to divine power or whatever.
And they say, oh yeah, but I, I don't have icons.
I'm, I'm Protestant.
We just don't do that.
And, and I said, oh, but you have icons.
They said, no, I have no icons.
None.
I'm, it's not part of my, so I give them this great thought experiment.
I said, imagine that you and your friends are going to go for a camp out and you were
tasked with bringing toilet paper.
And you get out there and the, at the campsite and one of your friends has to use the toilet
paper, ask you where it was, and you realize, I forgot, but you do happen to have your little
Gideon's Bible full of very tissue paper.
I asked them, would you give him your Gideon's Bible to wipe your back, his backside with?
And they say, absolutely not.
I say, why not?
Because that is God's word.
And I said, there's your icon.
There's your, that's your special thing that cannot be violated or profaned.
I said, it's just pages and ink, but you've turned it into something more.
And that's fascinating.
That's a religious move.
And that's how deeply material your religion is, even though you don't want to admit it.
Wow.
It's fascinating.
That's actually, that's a great, that's a great thought experiment.
We had, there was this Aaron Ra, who's a, I'm not sure if you know him, he was, he's
a famous, he was the head of the, the Atheist community of Ulster, well, no, Atheist, I
don't know, big Atheist dude, looks like a viking tall, like long hair.
And he really goes up against the creationists and he has conversations around creationism
because he's very science focused and, and tries to teach evolution.
And one of the things that he brought up that I thought was super interesting was that a
lot of the people where he grew up, I think in, I think he might be in Texas.
He says that a lot of people put doctrine above deity.
So they, they'll put, they'll put their doctrine about the, so he'll say like, we have fossils
in the ground that, that lay out a clear record of like how life developed.
And if that, you know, if you believe in God, great, he's like, if you think that God put
that, that, that was all there, then great, that that's what God did, but you're saying
that your doctrine says, no, that God didn't do that.
Or you're saying that you're putting doctrine above deity.
So all the evidence we have to throw out because of the doctrine, not because of, not because
of the actual evidence.
And I just thought it was super interesting to, to, to look at that because a lot of people,
yeah, they, they, they put doctrine above deity.
I know for my own life, I would, I would always, you know, I'd have certain feelings or emotions
to do with my religion and you'd always check them with your scripture because you put your
scripture first, but I would never say that I'm putting doctrine above deity or doctrine
above my own, you know, I would, I would always, I would always view it as like a good thing,
a holy thing.
And something you said, interesting about like the people praying, you know, they bow their
head and they, they, you know, they hold their hands and they, they close their eyes.
I noticed that even interestingly at, at my church, you know, when I was going to church
is we had this, this, this movement that I don't know how much, how much do you know
about Pentecostalism?
And do you go to a Pentecostal church regularly or anything?
Do you know much about?
Oh, yeah.
So they'll do, you know, they'll do the praise and worship and maybe started with a Hillsong
where it's the, it's a raising of the arms, it's the, it's the, it's the holding your
arm out, raising it to God, you know, as I'm desperate for you, that's the, the, the, I
need you.
I'm like a baby holding my arms.
What's interesting is that became so mainstream in the Pentecostal movement that I started
seeing things changing.
So there was a movement that kind of came through our church, which I called the Bethelers
and those people who are obsessed with Bethel church, which is a church over in the States
who, you know, have Jesus culture and stuff.
And what they would sort of do is on stage, instead of facing the crowd and raising their
hands as a way of worship, they would turn to the side.
So they would turn like this and they would, or they would turn their foot backs to the
audience.
And it was almost like, and it could be, and it might be, it might be a way of, it probably
is legitimate.
I'm not, I'm not in regards to like an actual expression of their themselves, but it was,
it became, it became a meme of itself in that it, in that people started to mimic it as
if, as, as like a, it's almost like a virtue signal, like I'm having my special moment
with God.
I don't care about the crowd.
I'm here worshiping God.
And that became its own form of, of ritual, I guess, and it's interesting how like these,
these ideas developed.
You first got the praying quietly in the room, as God says, and you've got the raising up
your arms.
And then that became too mainstream.
So it moved again.
And it's just constantly this evolving.
I haven't been in church in many years, but I'm sure there's a new style of worship that's
kind of on the fringes of, of how people perform their, their belief.
And I never thought of that as material, but you're saying, yeah, that's, that's, that
is the material aspect of religion.
Oh yeah, definitely.
And you find in a lot, a lot, a lot of Protestant traditions don't use imagery in the liturgical
setting or in the, near the altar or pulpit, but they do engage in a kind of architecture
of bodies of holding hands and the praise style worship that you mentioned and, you
know, touching and moving, laying out of hands, laying out of hands and the variety of bodily
practices that, you know, are, are critical to constructing and maintaining their sense
of community and a very embodied sense of worship, you know, worship is not some abstraction
for them.
It's very much a part of participating in what I would call the social body.
You know, they, you have to know how to do it.
I remember going to a Pentecostal service in, in Kenya once and man, but I felt like, of
course, I was this dumb white, you know, American guy, but I really felt out of place
because I didn't know, you know, you should say the body English.
I didn't know how to move and be part of this as a somatic embodied practice.
And it just really made it clear to me how important embodied experience is in, in these
collective is, you know, Durkheimian sense of generating this excitement, this collective
effervescent that pulls the people together and gives them a sense of corporate, you know,
togetherness, presence, yeah.
In your book, I was, because, guys, look how much notes I put in this, it's gonna focus.
Come on.
Focus.
But you can see they've got little, yeah, I've got little notes all through it.
So, and, and, and one, so I went through it and I'm glad I put the notes in because
I went through it.
And there's so many great stories in there.
And one of the stories that you kind of open the book with is about this Tahitian Protestant
missionary, Papaya, is that Papaya, is that what it is, right?
Yeah.
So, so could you explain the story of Papaya and, and how it relates to, like how it relates
to the, like how it opens the material study religion?
Well, I was really interested in, in this is the, you're referring to the one in the
Cook Islands, Rorotonga, Rorotonga, yeah.
I'm trying to remember where that is.
It's page 36.
Okay.
You can even read a little part of it if you want, because it's, it's a fascinating, it's
a fascinating, it's fascinating, I guess, visualise, it's like a, it's a good visualisation
of like how, of what we're talking about.
Yeah.
It's, it's a story about, written by a British missionary and his, his memoirs about being
there and about this sort of encounter when, when the Polynesian meets the, who did not
read and meets the European missionaries and one of them wants to communicate with the
other who's distant writes something on wood, a wood chip, I think, and it gives it to him,
say, or take it to him and he'll know exactly what I want or what, yeah, I think it was
to his wife.
And for him, this is just, you know, it's, it's, it's magic because, you know, this
action at a distance and the markings on the wood chip really meant nothing other than
they were part of the magic.
And I think from, you know, he told this story as a missionary in a very condescending way
to, you know, indicate that these poor people really, really need us.
They can't understand writing and for them, it's, you know, it's magic.
But I was thinking at the same time, there are so many examples in, on the western side
of magic boards.
And I was thinking of the fascination people have with like Ouija boards, for instance,
you know, that a lot are a spiritual form of communication for people.
It's a parlor game for lots, but, you know,
Well, I was, I was just thinking too, we could, I said this on Facebook and I got a lot of
people telling me that it was wrong and evil and stuff.
But I said, couldn't we, if Ouija boards are real, couldn't we solve the energy crisis?
We could build a huge one and we could, we could, we could connect it to, you know,
something that changes kinetic energy into electricity and then we could just ask
questions all day and then we got like infinite energy.
And I had a lot of people reaching out to me saying, no, they're real and don't want to
mess with them.
And I had this and I'm like, oh, well, I was just joking.
I don't offend anyone.
Yeah.
Oh, that's fascinating, though.
I think there are interesting objects because of, they do capture a sense of the, you know,
the, the way that any kind of spiritual experience is mediated by stuff, by things, you know,
things aren't just by material objects are not just, they're not indifferent.
They actually construct the experience.
They enter into it and they, they change what happens to people are part of the process.
So understanding that as this allows me to get back to your important question about
thing, what is the thing and what's the thing about religion?
I mean, I mean that in several different senses.
First of all, I think the material stuff of religion and how people, I mean, the argument
here is ultimately that human beings are, we're sort of the, you know, the expression,
the homophobic, we're the, we're the being that builds tools and uses tools.
That's what our nature is, you might say.
And what that implies, of course, is that in some sense we're incomplete without tools.
We have to have stuff.
We have to have clothing.
We have to have tools to build.
And, you know, these tools transform our bodies.
The hammer I have allows me to do things that I cannot do with my bare hands.
And the hammer becomes part of me in, in the sense that of what I'm building and it enables
me and changes me in a sense.
I adapt to the world through the tools I have.
So we're in constant interface with the world because we're not finished.
We're not complete things.
We need stuff to complete ourselves in any task.
So that's, first of all, the things are essential to the human experience.
We are dependent on them in the most fundamental way.
And secondly, the way our brains work, we, things come at us that we can identify and
our first preference is, is to specify them, to, in effect, to turn things which are kind
of mysterious into objects that we know, that we can classify.
We have taxonomies as this is that, that is this, it belongs here, and that gives us a
sense of control.
Of course, these taxonomies are arbitrary often, and they fall apart and, and things
themselves don't always fit in the categories we place them.
And that's the thing that interests me the most.
There's a lot of religious experience that people report in which they seem enshrouded,
whatever they see or feel or hear is enshrouded in mystery and it, and it refuses to resolve
itself into a symbol or an identifiable finite object that we can have control over.
You know, I'm thinking about visions and elocution and dreams and things that are really important
and have been important for human religions for the past probably 75,000 or 100,000 years.
Or 6,000, depending on your perspective.
But yeah, that's even, even if you take that view, dreams, for instance, are the
Bibles full of, of dreams and their interpretation.
So that's the interesting thing about those things is they resist resolution.
Dreams are, even if you think you've got it interpreted right, it pushes back and doesn't
fit.
And then you're second guessing and, and visions that people see that who is this?
What does this mean?
What am I supposed to do about this?
Who is this?
I mean, that was what Moses said when he saw this weird burning bush and it spoke and
he said, well, who are you?
And then this, this deity says, well, I'm the one that is, yeah, herbs in effect to preserve
the mystery and not fit into some human conception of things.
So it's fascinating, this thinness, this mysterious otherness about reality.
And if we start thinking even totally outside of a religious context, you know, our, our
neurology is designed to, to, to try to specify what's happening around us to control it.
But it doesn't work often.
And then we need stories, we need symbols, we need allegories to try to tackle the strangeness
of life.
And I think that's part, a really interesting part of the creativity of religions, because
they're always trying, they want, of course, to control everything, particularly when they,
it's religion that gets in the hands of the state.
Then, then control is really the premium.
If you look at the dreamers and the visionaries and the prophets and the mystics, you know,
those interesting characters sort of on the edge, they're expanding the conversation by,
by dealing with ambivalence, you know, diving into it and, and experimenting with it.
I remember, because the type of Christianity I was a part of had a lot of like visions and
prophecies and healings and all that kind of stuff.
That was like the bread and butter of what we did.
And I remember hearing a testimony from a Mormon who says that they're really struggling
with their faith, but they can't deny it because they had a vision.
And it was as clear as day and they went to the throne room of God and they saw God,
Jesus, and Joseph Smith sitting next to Jesus.
And I'm thinking, if this person had a vision like this, like, like, and they're very convinced
that this happened.
And I was like, but I don't accept that Joseph Smith would be chilling next to Jesus.
They are not a Mormon.
We're a member of the LDS church.
So, so yeah, I, I, I was, um, I'll be taken aback by that.
And then I learned this really interesting thing about aliens.
So, um, and, and I promise this isn't an alien podcast.
You're not going to start.
I'm not going to start, but what was really interesting is we've had, we have accounts
of people being abducted, right for, and I'm not going to even deny that have this experience.
People have these experiences for ages, but then, and now all the accounts were wide ranging
and different, like what the aliens or things looked like, how they acted, everything.
And then closing counts of third kind came out, or maybe it was, or whatever the first
movie to have the correct, the typical gray aliens with the big black eyes and the gray
skin.
And then after that, every single alien claim, alien abduction story described the aliens
exactly like that.
And it's like, what, what, what's the coincidence that it'd be in a wild coincidence that if
we were being visited by some sort of alien and they were abducting people that every
other race of aliens went away and only the gray ones came was, you know, to me, it points
to the psychological phenomenon of like how we try and piece together these, uh, subjective
experiences that we have with imagery allegory, allegory symbol, um, perspective.
And you have this.
Oh, sorry.
I think you're right there.
I think we, this is why we can't just, we can't solve these problems just through psychology.
We have to look at the, the visual cultures that people live in and the narrative cultures,
the mythologies that shape their everyday life that they hear again and again and again.
I mean, it's just no, it's not a surprise to me when people describe Jesus that they
saw in either a dream or in a vision and he looks just like 9,000 paintings up because
they are immersed in that.
And I don't, this isn't a way of making fun of religious.
It's, I think it's the way the human brain works.
You know, we constantly are recycling and relying on archives of images, uh, and other
kinds of experiences, smells and sounds, et cetera, you know, that we, we gather up and
we use as tools to make sense of, uh, of our experience and, um, dreams are, uh, not in
my opinion, just a sort of happenstance and neurological happenstance.
I think they're a really fascinating experience, a cognitive, a form of, uh, a cognitive resource
that our brains use to recycle, replenish, interpret, uh, things we've seen and things
that have experienced.
Um, and, uh, you know, dreams have always been a powerful engine in, in most religions,
besides, because they, they come with a certain force, you know, and they're a part of, they're
a kind of a, kind of a faculty, I think, whether they're meant to be that biologically, that's
how they're appropriated and used, I think in religious systems.
You have this quote in the book that I just love this.
So normally I write, I write some notes for the interviews that I do.
Yours has gone to, to two pages, which is not, not common.
And I, and I've, no, three pages, sorry, and I've condensed it because it got so many quotes
that I've written down that are just fantastic if they pop up, but, um, you wrote some things
or situations to enchant us, others co-ess us subtle or grossly, a parent, uh, parents
reproving tone, a teacher's threat, a passerby's frown, a bully's punch, a police officer's
stern look, a turnstile stiff revolution, a locked door, a traffic barrier, an empty
stair of, of room full of board students, all of these things compel or forbid us to
behaving in a particular way.
They work on our bodies in unspoken material ways.
And I was like, yes, that's exactly what it is.
Yeah.
And I mean, I was going to give another example about church, but I feel like we'll just keep
talking about my old church experiences.
But yeah, it's, it really is, it's, it's, uh, it's, it's fascinating the way to look
at religion like that, to look at like, not just, sorry, not just religion, but everything
like that.
Like there are, there's symbolism, there's imagery, there's, uh, there's the way that
we interact physically, like how our brain chemistry works when someone gives us a hug,
you know, versus someone pushing us away.
Like there's the stuff that's going on there.
And I feel like, um, and I'd love to get your thoughts, but I feel like that's, I guess
the essence of these, the, how we build society, culture and religion is like we, we, we build
these stories, these, uh, these memes, these concepts, these ideas, and like we, we structure
society around these interactions that we have with the world and with people.
And like that's how it's, it's like, to me, this, to me, it explains so much.
Like it's sort of, everything made much more sense to me in, in life when I read this.
I like to use the word, uh, the word meme, um, you know, means, means to rely on massive
circulation.
There, there are forms of iteration or repetition and the power of a meme is that it gets circulated
and repeated so much that we take it for granted.
We take it for second nature, you know, well, the word meme actually comes from the, uh,
Richard Dawkins book, the 1974 rich Dawkins book, uh, the selfish gene.
And I think I haven't read it.
I've got it there.
It's on my shelf ready to read, but I just haven't had the time, but, um, but it's, it
talks about, you know, it's the concept of a meme is like, and correct me if I'm wrong
because you probably have read it and you probably know, but it's like, it, it adapts
and evolves like a gene.
So you, you have like memes and now we think of memes as like internet images that have
changed.
That's one form of meme, but it's, yeah, yeah, no, I think that, yeah.
It's this, uh, I mean, I, I, I'm, of course, I mean, I'm trained as an art historian originally,
so I'm really interested in the visual dimension.
So I, I default to, to visual memes, for instance, but you think about so much of what we see
in a religious imagery or any kind of imagery.
It comes to us often in very formulaic fashion, uh, you know, it comes to us in this repeated
structure that, that, uh, is familiar and therefore taken for granted or accepted or,
or, or normalized.
It represents something that becomes not only normal, but normative, you know, and, uh,
you know, so much in what we do is this kind of mimetic, repetitive behavior, uh, because,
uh, uh, you know, we're, uh, we're creatures driven by a kind of, um, a homeostatic drive.
And we want things to be stable, to be manageable because, you know, we're, we're very, very
finite creatures.
We have to eat several times a day.
We have to drink.
We have to do a lot of repetitive things to stay healthy, uh, and, uh, consistency is
a way of, uh, you know, feeling safe and, and, uh, avoiding, you know, extremes.
Um, so for a lot of our information, we turn to these kinds of deeply familiar patterns
of information.
It's the repetition of the thing and, and memes are just a great, they, they do indeed
evolve.
They're not static, but they evolve in such a way that they get imbricated on, uh, new
memes are typically structured on material that's already familiar, you know, so it changes
but it also stays the same.
Uh, and, uh, this, this is actually a great, uh, great way to introduce one of the parts
I wanted to talk about, which is Plato's Cave.
So you bring up this amazing artwork in, uh, in your book, uh, and I'll just show it on
the screen now where it's a, it's an image, but was this made in, uh, 1600s?
Was it?
Yeah.
I think it's a 16th, I can't remember fifties, uh, where it's in here somewhere, uh, I don't
even know where it's at now.
Well, that's when the, uh, chapter, uh, yeah, right there.
1604.
Yeah.
So, so the idea, maybe you could explain the idea of Plato's Cave and then explain
how this image here has kind of added to that allegory a little bit.
Yeah.
It's fascinating image.
It's, well, of course it comes from Plato's Republic where he's, uh, he's floating different
concepts of mimesis and, and, uh, uh, theories of knowledge.
And this is perhaps the most well remembered, uh, myth or allegory that he, he shares this
idea that, uh, hum, most of humanity spends his time in the depths, the gloomy depth of
a cave looking at shadows of sort of images on the wall and their sense of what's real
never moves beyond that, uh, but he's saying the philosopher is the one who will not be
satisfied with these shadows, uh, but turn, uh, and try to retrace, um, the sort of reverse
the descent to ignorance toward, toward knowledge.
And when he does, he or she will see that, uh, those, those shapes are, are not real
either.
It's just the projection that they're the object that's whose, uh, contours are being
projected and then eventually he will turn, uh, and find his way out of the cave and look
at the sun as the true source of light and, uh, realize, uh, pretty much by himself because
most people stay in the cave, uh, you know, what's real.
So it's a, it's a very elitist model of enlightenment.
And of course, Plato is an unrepentant elitist and he's very much describing the elite and
how they're supposed to be trained and privileged, um, in society because for him, uh, the secret
to justice, and that's the driving question of the book, of the book is, uh, keeping things
the same.
So if everybody knows their place in this three tiered city that he's describing, things
will be nice.
Uh, so it's a very problematic myth because it suggests that everybody down at the bottom
of the cave is probably designed to stay there.
Otherwise they're going to, the only the elite philosophers get to leave and get to see truth.
So his story has all kinds of problems from a modern perspective, but I found this a really
interesting, uh, print because it's by a Protestant thinking about this story and basically baptizing
it in a sort of Christian critique of Catholicism.
Because if you look closely at those figures, uh, those sculptures on top of the wall there
that, uh, are the, are being silhouetted against the wall that we can't see, but all these
people on the right side are looking at those a number of them are, uh, probably Christian
saints in the Catholic tradition.
So it's his, it's his critique of Catholicism as, uh, projecting illusion, the worship of
images.
Uh, and he's laying that over the Greek, uh, platonic model of the quest for true knowledge.
So it's a, it's a fascinating piece of, uh, sort of the alignment of Calvinism and Platonism,
uh, as a piece of potential propaganda.
So this would be, this would be the meme evolving to add, you know, Catholic saints and, uh,
Christian symbolism.
Um, the reason, the reason I use it is, is, uh, I think it's very much part of a, of
a dualist mentality that's been in place for a very long time in the West that separates
spirit and matter, uh, as, uh, matters not real.
Bodies aren't real.
They're changeable.
They're played out, or as a Socrates says in one of the dialogues, they're perishable
rubbish.
What's real is the divine idea that the logos that's in the mind, in the soul, because that's
a, the human part that is like the divine.
And I think if you take that attitude toward religions, you end up dematerializing them
and disembodying them and arguing that what's really real is spirit and matter is just irrelevant
or, or worse.
And, uh, I just don't, I understand that that's what happens at certain levels of theological
discourse and philosophical discourse.
But if you look at the way people live their religions, it's quite different.
Hmm.
Yeah.
It's, uh, it's a fascinating pace.
I, I, I really, I really enjoy it.
Um, I think you've, I think you've, uh, you've, you've, um, you've started being on a path
of really appreciating artwork as well.
That's some, something that, uh, that you've also done.
Um, so, um, so, um, um, I'm just trying to look at, like, what's, uh, the next thing
that I had written downwards.
Um, so you mentioned, uh, oh yeah, so sorry, sorry, sorry.
So you mentioned that there are seven forms of material practice.
Uh, could you go over them, uh, with us?
Several forms of material practice.
Yeah.
I didn't hear.
Okay.
Yeah.
Well, gosh, there's probably innumerable, uh, material practices, but I, I like the idea
of material practice because I, I've actually wanted to argue that belief should be rested
from the hands of the Christian Gnostics who want to argue that true belief is, is,
is, is this internal volition and, uh, doctrinally grounded recitation or catechetical recitation
of belief of dogmas and say that actually if you look at lived religion, if you look
at the way people actually behave, belief is something much more interesting than that.
It's something that they learned with their bodies if, if, if we're talking about children,
for instance, and even if they're converts, adult converts, one of the things you have
to learn is the body language, the body discourse of material practice.
How, what do you do with your body?
I mean, you, it's like me and that Pentecostal church in Africa, I just did not know what
to do with my body.
Therefore I couldn't participate.
I couldn't not, I wasn't of their faith anyway.
But I mean, I, I couldn't, uh, you know, have tried to seek some interesting points
of sympathy and connection.
Um, so teaching the techniques of the body, uh, is one of the most critical cultural learnings
that happens in a human life.
Uh, and I think most people learn their religion as body practice.
Uh, parents teach their children how to pray, not by giving them an intellectual lecture
on the history of prayer, but by holding them, putting their hands together, uh, kissing
them and, you know, maybe the words they say are just really problem, but that's okay because
that's not what prayer is for that child prayer is a bodily attitude.
It's a sharing, it's an intimate connection to the adult and to the broader body of believers.
And, uh, and that's why adults kind of practice, when you talk to them about prayer, they actually
seem to regress often to, well, this is, you know, they're going back in time.
In effect, they're praying with earlier versions of themselves.
Uh, you know, that's the kind of organic reality of, of religious practice, I think.
Could you, could you expand on that a little bit?
What do you mean by they go back to like a version of themselves?
What do you mean by that?
Well, I think, uh, uh, what's, uh, you know, it goes back to this point I was making earlier
about religion as, um, as culture is, uh, is not entirely, but is largely a homeostatic drive.
It wants things, it places a great premium on stability, continuity.
And, um, I don't mean to character by, by regression.
I'm not talking about a kind of, I'm not trying to infantilize religion.
I'm saying that I love Freud's, uh, he was quoting Wordsworth actually.
He said, the child is the father of the man.
And Wordsworth said that when he returned to the river Dutton one day as an old, as a middle
age man, and it was the place where he stood as a teenager, uh, and he remembered that.
And he realized that kid who stood here is actually older than I am.
He was alive then. I wasn't.
So this, you know, it's not that Russian doll concept of the self.
We're just, we're a human self is a series of concentric shells
that are integrated more or less integrated.
Some people don't really make it to adulthood, but most of us do.
We can bear our own scars, but we are that child.
Still, we remember that person.
I, I, you know, we have dialogue.
We dream about those people.
We talk to that younger person in our dreams all the time.
And I think prayer, table manners, uh, lots of human behaviors are simultaneously
structuring the present, but also remembering the deep past and get alive.
And that's why, uh, I think, uh, the prayer experience for people is, uh,
is all, is a, is a shared experience because they
learn to pray with their parents.
They learn to pray in churches or mosques, uh, synagogues, whatever their background.
And, uh, that resonates.
It reverberates, uh, through life.
And that I think is, is what belief is.
Belief is a, uh, is a disposition inherited from practice practices primary.
It shapes the body and the body resonates with that.
And those behaviors like prayer, people, uh, dealing with horrible circumstances,
you know, uh, we'll go to prayer.
Why did they do that?
Uh, they're not running from reality.
They're making, they're using a deep resource to deal with trauma, to deal with shock,
to deal with intense pain or deep grievance, bereavement.
Uh, I think it's, uh, um, something that medical schools are understanding more and
more now that religion shouldn't be separated from the training of physicians,
but seen as a resource, seen as something that needs to be considered, whatever the religion,
they need to learn about it because it's part of the person they're healing.
There's, uh, we have a, we have an interesting comment from someone who said,
uh, actually music said, I'm looking forward to seeing the brain damage cases
from this new slap fighting thing.
Have you seen that with people slapping themselves across the face?
So that's definitely one, one thing, uh, you mentioned that, that I found super interesting
is the, that we, we kind of are taught how to go about the world, um, from our culture,
our parents and all that stuff, but we often don't think about people, uh,
like people that we kind of look up to doing this, especially religious leaders.
So I was very blown away to find out that, um, 300 years before Jesus existed.
Um, and I don't know, I don't know who quoted it, but it was, it was a Greek philosopher said,
um, the, the love of money is the mega mega city of all evils is the metropolis of all evils.
And it's like, that's quite similar to the root of money's love, uh, the love of money
is the root of all evil. You know, love of money is the mega city of all evil.
And I was like, wow, that's 300 years before Jesus, you know, was he, was that an original
Jesus quote or was that a, you know, Jesus quotes.
I mean, he's whoever wrote those things, Jesus probably said some of it.
But, uh, you know, it's, it's scriptures are edited.
They're, you know, they're pulling from all kinds of sources.
And, uh, how dare you?
It's the perfect word of God.
Um, but yes, I, I academically, uh, 100%, there's, uh, I had, uh, Dr.
Kip Davis on, uh, who's a Dead Sea, Dead Sea Scrolls scholar and he pointed out to me,
um, and I'll just shoot this little clip here and we can, you won't hear the audio, but
he works, uh, he, he's one of the people who, who, uh, found the forgeries in the Dead Sea
Scrolls antiquity market and, um, that the, the Beatitudes, and this is what I'm, uh,
there's the Beatitudes were, we've got record of them before Jesus's time.
Now they're not a one-for-one copy, but they're eight, um, eight blessed statements
followed by a ninth longer one.
Now blessed be, you know, blessed are the poor in spirit or blessed are the merciful
for they shall receive mercy.
And then in Quran, Beatitudes, uh, scroll Q, uh, for Q525 says, blessed are he who speaks
truth with a pure heart and who does not stand it with his tongue.
So even Jesus is like, it is rooted in the Jewish tradition of the time.
Of course.
Yeah.
And it's, that was amazing to me.
Uh, this, uh, this is, this is actually, I think part and particle of, of, of religion.
Religions, uh, are largely, uh, I mean, they're patterns built on older patterns
because as I keep saying the function of religion is to stabilize, you know, to, to
build, help people build worlds that they can live in and thrive in.
And, you know, if you've got people out there constantly innovating at the cutting
edge, pushing, pushing, pushing for novelties all the time, there's no continuity.
There's, you know, you need a few people doing that.
You need a few profits, you need a few people ruffling feathers, but you need,
you need more continuity to give, uh, most, because most people, uh, live, uh, lives that
are, as Bacon said, nasty, brutish and short, you know, uh, so, uh, continuity and stability
are really, uh, important.
And, and, uh, as radical in some respects as Jesus was, uh, he was also extremely
consistent with, uh, major aspects of the Jewish tradition.
So as I say, you know, he's a good, he's a good Jew.
And, uh, I, I'm not, uh, well versed to talk much more about him, but I mean, you know,
you've, you've had guests who are going to that far greater, uh, authority than I
can. So I, I wanted to touch on, um, imagery and the ideology behind imagery and, um, and,
you know, and, and, and, but before we do that, I want to quickly just tell everyone,
because if you're interested in anything that we're talking about, you can go get
the thing about religion and introduction to, introduction to material study of religions.
And I recommended it so much.
It's such a fantastic book and it's, uh, it's just, just, you have to go check it out.
It's, it's amazing.
I have a paper bag.
Yeah.
By the way, it's expensive, hardcover, but, um, you know, I'm tempted to get the hardcover
because it's quickly becoming one of my favorite, uh, one of my favorite books.
Um, and that, that kind of, uh, that kind of, well, actually, before we, before we jump into
that, um, I will actually quickly shout out to thank you for anyone who's new to this channel.
I have conversations with people over a drink of the guest choice, uh, and, um,
and the drink sets the tone and we have deep conversations over deep drinks about religion
and philosophy and human rights.
And coming up, we have some really awesome, um, panels, including the second slavery panel,
which will just be about, um, the aftermath and about responding to some of the apologetics that
have come out.
And if you feel like supporting this channel, you can click the join button, uh, really appreciate
it and you become a member.
And I've seen a few of you become members, which has been really awesome.
We're creating some member content soon, or you can check out the patreon.
But with that said, get the book, but I want to ask you, Dr. David Morgan, Professor David
Morgan, I should say, uh, what are your favorite books?
Oh, wow.
You give me your top three, your top three favorite books of all time or most influential
that have impacted you.
I think Marcus Ceruleus's meditations is one of my, uh, top favorites.
I really like that very much.
Um, uh, I love, uh, I love Herman Hesse's novels.
Yeah.
It's sort of Neil Romney, Shep Wolf, and, um, Narcissus and Goldman.
Uh, he was a Swiss writer around the turn of the 20th century, really interesting guy
and very interested in, in religion.
I think he was the son of a, uh, Protestant, Protestant missionary.
What's his name?
Sorry.
Hesse, H-E-S-S-E, it's the German.
I mean, he's referred to as Hesse in, in English, but Hesse, Hermann Hesse, Herman Hesse.
Really wonderful.
Just beautiful.
And if you read German, his, his German is so lyrical and beautiful.
And, uh, but there are great English translations.
I think, uh, coming back to the more intellectual side, stuff that's just really
interesting to read.
Uh, I love, uh, I love reading Sigmund Freud's stuff.
I think he's such a wonderful writer.
He's crazy ideas, but just really fascinating.
What, what do you think about Jung?
Well, he's a little wacky, uh, you know, I've got it.
So I got given a like one-to-one replica of the red book, which he obviously was.
Yeah.
I have no idea.
Like, I don't know.
I've never read it.
You know, I'm not going to read the big copy because it's like,
it's got the German or the whatever language it was in and, and all the imagery and stuff.
It's a beautiful book.
But every time I go to try and even begin to understand what I'm about to read,
I have no idea where to start.
Like, was this an episode of psychosis?
Is this profound, you know, teach, like, what is this that I'm reading?
And it's, um, but I will get to it one day, but I, he's fascinating.
I mean, he's, he reminds me of, uh, Perichelsus and, uh, you know, Swedenborg and all these
interesting hermetic, alchemical, mystical thinkers, Jacob Burma, um, uh, you know,
but it's all the night in which all cows are black.
I, I just just, yeah.
Okay.
So he's a little too wacky, but because he, because he had issues with Freud, right?
Is it Freud that he had issues?
Well, he broke with Freud.
Yeah.
Over.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Beef.
Beef.
Beef.
Yeah.
But he started as a psychoadalyst.
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
So you got Freud, you got, uh, Hessen, uh, Hermann, uh, Marcus Aurelius, uh, Marcus Aurelius, uh,
gosh, uh, who else?
I, uh, what's your favorite novel?
Well, you know, I find it very hard to read novels now.
I used to read them all the time when I was a graduate student.
I loved it.
Isn't that interesting?
I, I just find it very hard to sit down and read novels now.
I think probably the most beautiful riveting novel I ever read was, uh, Grapes of Wrath.
Uh, I bought a copy of it a couple of years ago because I wanted to go back and read Steinbeck again.
He's just a fantastic writer.
I really love that novel.
Um, and, uh,
Oh gosh, I'm going to think of them as soon as we go on to the next.
That's okay.
And we can go back, you know, and we are drinking whiskey.
So it is, uh, it's totally okay to go off the topic.
We've had some episodes that, in fact, that episode with Dr.
Kip Davis, by the end of it, it was like, I think it was like three hours long.
And by the end we were just having, we spent 45 minutes talking about metal bands.
So like by the end of it, we were just both like, oh, we're drinking, we're drinking straight rye.
So it was, um, you know, it was very, you should try a whiskey sour with rye.
That's, uh, I mean, I usually bourbon, but a good rye.
This is, this is rye.
I think you're right.
Well, that's great.
And did you use lemon?
Or like, yeah, yeah.
I like lemons better.
I used to drink just lime, but I, and then, uh, a really good, uh,
I like demirara sugar.
I, I, I make a syrup from granular demirara.
It's excellent.
Yeah.
Really good sugar.
Well, I'm, I'm definitely always out there with a chemistry set.
I'm like, I'm like mixing things together.
I didn't, I'm like, I'm like, I'm trying to work it all out and the kitchen's a mess,
but I need to get the proper, proper, uh, like shake.
But, um, we have a question for the audience.
Uh, has Professor David Morgan read born believers, the science of children's religious
beliefs by Justin L. Barrett?
I know Justin Barrett's work, uh, the neuroscience stuff.
I've not seen this one, uh, I haven't read it.
Um, uh, but you know, he's, he's got some really interesting ideas.
I, uh, we had him at Duke speak several years ago and, uh, I, I just found it, you know,
his, his work, uh, helpful, particularly, um, you know, in terms of thinking about, uh, the human
capacity to overinterpret, to over determine, you know, this notion of a hyper,
hyper detective agent, uh, uh, device, you know, this way that we, uh,
we, uh, I mean, our neurology seems inclined to do this, to nominate something as being
powerfully important.
And in, in another book I recently wrote, I talked about images in this way as kind of,
as focal objects.
We, what they are is, uh, like the human face there, the inter, the means of connecting with
an unseen network and that's a power.
They're a node in that network, a particularly important node.
They're the access to it, like the human face is the access to all the networks that comprise
our body, uh, our being, you might say.
Um, and, uh, images are like faces in that sense, you know, we, we really gravitate toward them.
Uh, doesn't have to be that though.
I mean, I think certain kinds of sound, uh, do that too.
They connect us.
Sound is particularly important in connecting us to old memories.
And this is very powerful at that.
So is, I think taste, uh, sense of taste.
And, and it's just amazing sometimes when you, uh, eat something, uh, brings you back.
What comes with it?
Well, just, it's like this, it's like pulling up a, a plant with just this, this intense
network of roots.
You realize that what you see is just the tip.
And that's the way it is with the human face, or that is the way it is with an image.
We interface with images because there's so much history, so much presence there, uh, that, uh,
is, uh, figured by that image and, uh, statues, whatever, you know, you're talking about.
The, there's that scripture, the eyes of the window to the soul.
And, um, you can tell the whiskey's taking effect because I typed in,
the soul is in the eyes on Google to try and find the reference.
Um, but so the soul is in the eyes.
I think it's more port to say the, the, um, the eyes are a window to the soul.
So yeah, but even then, you know, like that, the, even the, you know, the ancients, that,
that's, that's how they kind of, uh, saw things.
And, um, yeah, the, it's, uh, it's funny that you talk about the, and, and you talk about
the, the smell and the touch and taste of things because, uh, you know, I'm a big, uh, connoisseur
of Scotch.
I love Scotch.
I, I will drink it all the time.
Um, drink it too much.
Sometimes I have to give myself breaks.
Um, we do sober weeks sometimes or sober month on deep drinks, uh, sometimes.
But, um, but one of the things that I, I do with, with whiskey and what I find so
interesting is you kind of, I've heard someone say you're kind of drinking artwork
with whiskey or with any like alcohol.
Someone, you know, it's like 19 years for some of these, these drinks to get the
characteristics from the wood and the location.
And I had, uh, my, my, uh, my wife's boss come, come around and he's like, uh,
him and his wife came around and I said, look, I'm going to do a whiskey tasting.
And I had all these whiskies out and none of them, but no one liked whiskey.
My wife likes it now because I've talked to her and I said, we're going to, we're
going to do it.
I'm going to, I'm going to get you on the path to at least appreciating it.
And I had like diagrams.
I spent all day like doing, like making maps and like we were, we were drinking from
this region in Scotland and, um, and what was super interesting is,
uh, the, the father, um, the, um, the, um, the Amy's boss, the man, he found the whiskey
he liked by the end of it.
He's like, I like this whiskey.
I took a photo of it.
He's going home with it.
Yeah.
Uh, the lady didn't like, the wife didn't like any whiskies, but she found which
direction she would go if she did kind of like what palette she would have kind of
liked, but something really interesting happened in that she took a sip of, uh,
lageville and 16, which is a, is a smoky whiskey.
Oh, it's a love it.
And, um, and you can sit with that.
And immediately she was brought back to living in South Africa as a little girl and
going into her father's cigar room where all the men would sit around and smoke, uh,
cigars and it brought her back to that moment.
And although she didn't necessarily like the taste is quite harsh, it brought her
back to that moment that, uh, you know, that, that they had.
And you know, you've heard other people say when they, uh, when they've drink, drink
a bit of whiskey, they all of a sudden they can taste, uh, sunscreen.
And the reason is because it's got, you know, beach has got notes of coconut,
which then sparks their memory.
So there's a chemical reaction happening in your mouth when it hits the saliva and
then that's changing.
And, and it's, it's interesting how, um, uh, that kind of happens.
Well, that's, uh, that's part of, uh, I think it's the third chapter.
I look at, um, you know, foods and psychoactive substances and things that we,
that humans ingest that alters consciousness.
I mean, they, these are external agents that we take into our bodies to modify how we
think, how we feel, how we perceive.
And, you know, that may not be so much a part of Christianity, but it's a part of a
lot of religions and has been, uh, I mean, people working on the Upper Paleolithic
Ari, like Davis Lewis Williams argue that, uh, you know, trance induced by, uh, a variety
of means, uh, fasting and, and, but also psychoactive substances.
This is critical to the emergence of the modern mind.
You know, uh, so, you know, that was religion.
That was a highly shamanistic, uh, religion of, uh, modifying consciousness artificially
in order to enhance perceptions and undertake vision, uh, quests and that sort of thing.
Hmm.
We have a couple of super chats.
Thank you, Nuriakan for sending a super sticker.
You are the best.
Um, she's, she's fantastic.
She, she's, uh, starting to be, uh, you know, a lawyer at the moment, but she was,
is, um, um, a Muslim who, who left her religion after, you know, investigating and stuff.
But, um, and now she does a lot of human rights and women advocacy for, you know,
the ladies in Iran and things like that.
And, um, the amount of, the amount of stuff that the amount of attacks that she gets,
she gets online is, um, uh, is incredible.
I put one video of her up on my channel and every, there's one stage where every two
hours I was getting a new abusive message from someone because they didn't like her concept.
But thank you so much, uh, holy humanist Nuri, uh, I really appreciated that.
Dr. Sherrill asked a really good, thank you so much for the super chat, uh, Dr. Sherrill.
You said, with over 4,000 religions in the world, what do you think are some psychological
characteristics that lead someone to want to be a part of a particular religion?
Hmm.
Gosh, I mean, I think most people seem to get their religions, uh, early in life.
And it's very much about being part of a clan or a unit, a family unit or an extended family.
Um, this is changing in our own time, of course, with mobility and, and, um, education and, um,
brand loyalty to whatever mom and dad's religion is, is just really nose diving.
And most religions, most established religions like Christianity, uh, are either just holding
their own or declining. Um, and, and, and this demographic reason why moving away the, the, the
erosion of traditional relationships, uh, arrangements like nuclear family, et cetera,
all of that, you know, has, uh, an impact on religions.
And that suggests to us that, you know, one of the things traditionally
religions have done is to reaffirm existing structures of authority and power and,
and relationships. And, uh, you know, the, the psychological characteristics
can push one out or push one back, you know, uh, some people get a more conservative religion
because they feel like they're not in control of their lives. And it's this fear, you know,
this desire to have more control, more structure, uh, the, and the security and
sense of comfort that that provides other people and lots of them. Uh, and this is certainly on the
rise, uh, in the U S, um, already just to jettison affiliations in the interest of discovery and
exploration, entering, entering social relationships and social casts that their parents
weren't part of. They go to get educated. They move away. They create new networks of friends
and associates and they need a religion that can help them in that new deployment of self.
Uh, so, uh, so it's a different kind of, I mean, in both cases though, it's, it's this human quest
for some sense of structure, you know, we, we, being a radical free agent works for a while
as your, as rebellious late adolescent, but in the longer run, we want something, you know,
we want to be around the people we feel are, are like us and, and we, and, and sharing some
spiritual or religious dimensions with them is one way of, you know, maintaining a connection.
Hmm. You mentioned that it's, you know, that the society kind of like they, they, they,
that religiosity kinds of kind of pulled forward the, the culture, uh, and the traditions.
Do you think that's needed? Because there's, I'm, I'm quite progressive myself in my,
my thinking. And, uh, and I often wonder if, if it's part of that, if part of what keeps
society together is the fact that there are progressive and there are conservatives
constantly fighting the extreme left of pulling one way, the extreme right of pulling one way,
and then hopefully things get better and better as we kind of move, like in Russia.
Yeah. Do you think, what kind of a person do you think that these are good things to,
to bring forward some of these traditions? Or do you think they should be brought forward,
but just not dogmatically? Do you think they should be appreciated in a new light? Like,
what are your thoughts around that? Well, I,
I just, I, I want to probably sound naive. I just think, uh, a degree of honesty, uh,
is more important than anything. And when people, people ought to feel a little uneasy
when their God fits squarely in their back pocket, you know, um, and he ends up agreeing
with everything they think. And this is a real problem, uh, because that suggests that that God
is, is just, uh, it's just bullshit. You know, it's, it's a way of normalizing what you, you know,
your biases. And, and I think that the left or the right, you know, Jesus ends up looking like
some right-wing nut or some left-wing kook. I mean, I don't think you're one of them. I don't know
who Jesus was and what he, you know, was all about, but I mean, uh, I, seeing Buddha or Jesus or
Moses or whoever appropriated for one's, uh, uh, political, uh, program is, I don't know. It always,
I just really, uh, I'm deeply skeptical. Yeah. So you've got, you've got blue-haired Jesus,
blue-haired feminist Jesus, and then you've got like Tattoos, trucker, uh, trucking clothes. Yeah.
Yeah. Uh, got a gun. He's got his, you know, his, uh, his assault rifle on his back. There's, um,
so, uh, you mentioned in your book too, about, um, symbols and things, and, and I do want to circle
back to the imagery as well, but, and maybe we can tie them together. Um, I find it interesting that
side down, I find it interesting that Jesus actually spoke a lot in imagery. He used parables.
He said the, the, the sore of the field, the, you know, the thief in the night, like he uses
imagery to kind of get his message across. And in ministry college, when I, when I completed
ministry college, they, they would say that the reason Jesus did that was because parables work so
well in, in, in people's minds to remember the, the overall message and it can be adapted to many
things. But you say in your book, uh, we do not see things regarding the material, um, materiality
mattering. You say we do not see things in, uh, themselves as if some pure or universal state.
We see them as they matter to us, um, as our ideas and preferences, cultural dispositions,
tastes and interests, interests condition them. And we commonly ignore what we have no interest
in seeing. And yet, uh, things are, um, are also there separate from us. Not to be sure,
not to be sure, identical to what we think or imagine them to be, but we do not, uh,
but we do not in most cases simply invent them, uh, with our words or ideas. Things have properties
that imprint and impinge on us that resist us, pushback, even threaten or harm us. This is
another way of saying that their materiality matters. And we should have got you to read that
because my dyslexia was playing a lot for the fit there. But, but yeah, materiality matters
are these symbols and things and, and this, I think it actually that passage would be my answer
a better answer that I gave, I think to your previous question. I think, uh, in the sense that
when you read, uh, people like Buddha or Jesus or whomever, their otherness needs to be preserved.
They're not your pal. They're not, he's not one of us. He's weird and other and that needs to be,
uh, part of your engagement with him. It's, it's, it's, it, because I think that's more profoundly
ethical. You know, when we meet people, we, we don't have the right to sort of offload our
expectations on them and say, Oh yeah, here's what you are. Uh, we need to open up and let
that other person be who that person is and not try to tell them. And I think the same thing with,
uh, studying religious figures, you know, they, they come from radically different times than we do
with comp, with speaking languages that are dead, maybe gone and, uh, with histories that we'll never
even learn. Most of, I mean, it's a lot of people don't even know that Jesus ever existed. It's just,
it's just, it's, it's shrouded in mystery that we cannot dispel. And that means we should just
practice extreme caution in saying what he means. And I know that, you know, uh, liberal progressives
will take, uh, issue with that because they want the Jesus to, to champion their politics. But
wow, I think that's why I think honesty is, is, is a better way of, and, and just a sort of sober
assessment of them and, uh, take what you need. Um, but don't try to stick them in your back pocket.
Yeah, it's, um, yeah, yeah, I totally agree with you there. And I don't know if that comes through
in your book at all, but I definitely felt like that I, that's how I kind of felt when I left
your book. I don't know if you're, you blatantly say it out right there though. Um, but yeah, it's,
um, it's definitely. And it's, it, it, it, uh, we're talking about, I think, uh, is what is
powerful for people about things, you know, um, because they, uh, they have a certain recalcitrance,
they, uh, a certain resistance, you know, they push back, they're made of, uh, they have their own
fabrication, their own histories, and we just have to encounter them with a certain degree of
respect and try to understand what's going on here. And, uh, and I think that's how we keep
religion out of our heads and in the real world, you know what I'm saying? Uh, because it's not
just my, my, my imagination of what it is. It's, it has a reality that we need to, uh, really
honestly engage and, uh, with a certain degree of, I guess, uh, humbleness.
Well, if you could, uh, we're gonna, we'll move on to the question and answers section of the
interview, but I do want to, um, ask you, for those who are interested in buying your book,
if you could summarize it, I mean, it's summarized here, but if you could summarize it in, in, um,
some words that, uh, from the author, who has had a little bit of whiskey cell, what would you say
about, uh, this book? What is it, who is this book for? Well, uh, the book came to my mind as a
prospect when I, I was thinking about the challenge of teaching religious studies, uh, from a material
perspective. And students love the idea, undergrads and, and graduate students, uh,
uh, but, uh, it seemed like every time I was teaching, I had, it was a kind of go back to
square one and because writing about things is, they're interested, but they hadn't no
preparation. So I wanted to write a book for undergraduates, for doctoral students and for
my colleagues and for anybody who's really interested in the conversation about things,
uh, as a kind of starting place. Um, you know, I, I don't know that it's, you tell me, uh,
what level of reading it is, but I, I, I've had, uh, luck with it, a good fortune in, in the classroom.
People find it engaging and, um, it leads to a lot of interesting conversations and I really
want to, to help people think, um, away from this intellectualized religion as a system of beliefs
thing to things people do to make sense of life, uh, with images, with objects, with spaces, food,
et cetera. And, uh, you know, that was my, that's kind of what the book is about. And then it's,
it's structured in two parts. The first part is, uh, a kind of, uh, looking at major theories and
ideas. Um, it opens with this reflection on the agency of things, you know, the fact that
foods do work. They affect us and we've been talking about that. Um, and then I looked at
theories of religion that dematerialize it. And then the third chapter, I can't remember,
second chapter, whatever looks at, uh, uh, you know, the materiality of religion. The next chapter
looks at particular focuses on particular aspects, food and drugs and, uh, religion and politics,
religion and the state, you know, in terms of spaces and things and, um, religion.
You have a whole, you have a whole history on wands on, on.
Yeah. That's the next chapter then. Yeah. I'm really interested in wands because they,
there's their power objects. And I want to know, well, how, how does that happen? And it's a
fascinating history because it goes way back before Christianity, uh, in, in the history of
Judaism and also in Europe, the history of Celtic religion, the Druids and, and I just
track it clear up to the present, particularly the last 150 years with the rise of Neopaganism and
Wicca and very fascinating, um, you know, evocations and inventions of, of pagan religions in the
modern era. And, uh, wands have sort of achieved a new presence and a new life and there's just
a ton of literature on wands. So I was really intrigued by them and what they do and how,
you know, this fits in with material understanding. We'll have to make a video together of
explaining what you've discovered about wands because I think, I think it's fascinating. Um,
there's, uh, uh, yeah. And I think that you ask the question, you know, is this book easy to read?
So I'm, I'm dyslexic. I really struggle to read books. In fact, what I do, um, I love reading
so much, but I, um, struggle with it. So I usually listen to audio versions of a book. In fact, I
use, sometimes use text-to-speech software. So I'll get a PDF and I'll throw it in text-to-speech
and I'll listen to that. And then I'll, I'll, I'll bookmark parts that were interesting to me and
then I'll get the physical version and I'll put the stickers in there. But with this one, I actually
read this from, from South of Finnish. So that's a testament to how much it grabbed me, but also
how easy it was to read. For me, it was right on the fringes of, and I'm not super intelligent,
but it was right on the fringes of like, it was, it was, uh, it wasn't boring. Like in that,
it was challenging me a lot in my intellect, but it was kind of doing it in a way that was,
you have to think when you're reading it. You can't just, it's not like just reading Lord of
the Rings or something where you just kind of go with the story. You think that it's not too hard
that you're pulling out references and looking at, you know, it's, I think it's really well balanced.
It's not too easy, not too hard. I think you should do, if you've got an audio version ever
coming out, I would, I would love that as well. Do you have, especially, especially because your
voice is, I think you've got a good voice for reading. I think you'd be good for it. Do you
have any new books coming out that you're working on? I'm working on a book now called,
uh, the working title is the art of seeing things. And the subtitle is the visual culture of
revelation. I'm really interested in the role that imaging plays in revelation. I'm not talking
just about the book and the Bible, but I mean revelation in a broad sense. I even look at,
in part of it, I look at scientific discoveries and how they are often expressed and described
by scientists in, in sort of mysterious, erratic language of revelation, especially with the web
telescope. It's really fascinating to hear scientists talk about what they're learning
and about the science. I mean, it's sublime, you know, that we live in this universe,
known universe is 93 billion light years across, which is just, that is just, you know,
pockling. But it's, it's really incredible. I mean, for me, it's, it's probably religion,
you know, I just, it's just phenomenal. I've got the, I've got the, you talk about the Hubble
Deep Field image. Is that the, yeah. That's the older one. Yeah. But that, I love that deep field
image. Yeah, it's astonishing. Yeah, that's the, that was, that was quite old. So just to, just to
give everyone, I'm just going to show it because I think it's, I've got, I've got a picture of it
on my wall, but um, my gosh, let me just get one there with the density of galaxies. That's the
deal. Yeah. Let me just quickly just bring it up. So, so this is a, this is the Hubble Deep Field.
And so what they did with this is they pointed their telescopes to a part of the night sky that
was, that was dark. Usually back then they always pointed to, you know, celestial objects that they
knew, but this one they pointed to a specific spot in the sky that was probably the most dark,
but also as the satellite went around Earth, it needed to be able to do like a long exposure. So
just keep the shutter open essentially as it went around. And I don't know if it was, it was days or
weeks that it was just capturing this image, getting, getting light that was so old. What you're
seeing here, besides a few of these, um, so this, uh, this, this shiny one here, like this one with
two lines, that's a star. So that's a very dim, close star, but everything else you see here
is a galaxy, uh, not a galaxy, uh, yeah, galaxy. Um, and some of these like, um, these lines are at
the edge of the known universe at the time. So 13.8 billion light years away. That light's been
traveling for 13.8 billion years. And what's wild about this is each one of these galaxies
has hundreds of billions of stars. And each one of those stars, I mean, I think if you, if you, uh,
if you look at our solar system, I think the average amount of planets, uh, around the solar
system or celestial bodies, like 19 or something include cause, cause like you got like Jupiter
and it's got so many moons and things like that. But you've got each one of these stars,
hundreds of billions of stars, and each one of these all specks of light, even the tiny little ones,
uh, is, um, you know, got planets around it. And then you think, wow, that's like incredible. You
got literally like, in our farce of spaceships, we couldn't cross one of these galaxies in many,
I'm not gonna, I'm gonna start making up numbers, but a long time. This is, this is far. But when
you, when you consider all this, you're like, wow, there's hundreds and hundreds of billions of
planets and stars in these, in each one of these little dots. And you think that must be like
the whole night sky. That is the size of a pinprick. If you hold it at arm's length, that's,
that's the part of the sky that you're seeing there. And I know what you mean when you say
that if there was a religion, this, this would be part of my religion. I'm so filled with awe
and amazement and wonder at the size of this universe. It's just, it boggles the mind. It's,
it's just, it's incredible. Um, so now I'm off my soapbox, uh, preaching my religion. I'll ask
you a few questions. So guys, if you've got any questions, um, you can feel free to ask them.
If you definitely want your question answered, you can super chat them. But I have a few
questions that I always ask to, always, uh, tend to ask people. Um, so the first, the first question
I like to ask people is, uh, so do, would you mind talking about your belief system at the
moment? Like, have you, have you, has your, the belief system developed throughout the years?
Are you religious? Are you not religious? Are you happy to kind of mention that? Or
I'm not religious. Uh, I, uh, grew up in a religious home, like a lot of people, but it, uh,
didn't stick. Yeah. But I, I mean, I find religion so, uh, fascinating, uh, because,
yeah, it's, uh, you know, it's, I mean, it's, it's, it's culture, you know, for me. And that means
it's history. And that means that it's, uh, how people, a lot of people, not everyone, of course,
um, you know, make sense of things. And, uh, um, there's just, and, and, and, of course, I'm,
as an art historian, uh, I'm, I'm deeply interested in the role that imaging plays in, uh, religions.
So, uh, I have, you know, spent a good deal of my time writing about that.
Yeah. Well, so my question is, um, regarding your belief, and I ask most people this, but
what, if anything, would change your mind? So could you, could you, could you find something
that would convince you that there is something more to it than psychological or material, physical
or cultural? I don't think so. I, uh, I, last year I was, uh, or earlier this year I was
in the hospital, uh, with a intestinal thing. And it was really serious. I spent six days there.
And it wasn't until after I realized, you know, I was really sick and, uh, I, it came to, it never
even occurred to me to pray or, religion just doesn't, it just doesn't play a light, a role in my,
experience, uh, not afraid of death. I think, you know, it's, it's so basic. It's so authentic to a
human existence that, uh, we need to live toward it deliberately. And, um, it's the last thing we do,
you know, in that sense. Uh, and, uh, so, uh, I don't, I, I mean, if aliens landed on the
planet tomorrow, it wouldn't be a religious event for me. It would be really bizarre,
natural event. I mean, okay, there's these things. What now, now what do we do? You know, I mean, it's, uh,
yeah, yeah. So if like, if like the rapture came, like the, um, the, what's that movie that was really
popular, uh, left behind, the left behind rapture happened. Would you be like, oh, maybe there is
something to, to this or would you be like, what's going on? Like, I mean, it's a wild hypothetical.
I just, uh, I think, you know, the natural world is so phenomenally interesting and full of
wonder. I mean, for me, like these, I love, you know, astrophysics and stuff like that. I just
think that's so phenomenal. The world is, the universe is weird. I mean, it's just so radically
weird and all this, uh, quantum mechanics stuff and subatomic things. I mean, I know,
it's, uh, it's enough, you know, I don't want, I read this tiny book. It was a tiny, tiny, tiny book.
It was like, it was like a, on a very popular level in quantum mechanics and about halfway
through, I just stopped giving, I stopped trying to understand it and just took everything that
I was saying is like, okay, like, if you say so, like, and just, just treating it like almost
like a fantasy novel where it's like, this is the way it works. And like, I just had to try,
because I had no ability to kind of comprehend the quantum mechanics. I was like, all right, all right,
okay. Well, some of it seems crazy. But that's fascinating. And, uh, I don't know the weirds
and human beings are, are strange things. They're really, I just never get tired of
studying and writing about people. And it's, it's just utterly fascinating. So I, I, I love what I do
and very, very privileged to have the opportunity to do it.
If you could share a meal with any individual living or dead, who would that be?
And let's pretend you can speak the language if you choose like some Latin philosopher or something.
I don't know. Yeah, I don't really know. I don't, not into biography and all that.
Yeah, I don't know. You wouldn't, you wouldn't talk to Plato and tell him that he's being an
egomaniac with these. I just, I can't even imagine what that would be like, because everything we know
is, I, I, I don't think in those terms because, uh, yeah, yeah, not, I'm not really, uh, I don't
think there's anybody I'd like to talk to, you know, any, I don't have a hero, you know, I don't
have, I just don't know those terms, uh, impressed by smart people and creative people, uh, love art
and, and, uh, but, uh, honestly, I don't like, who's your favorite, who's your favorite artist?
That's good. Probably Czanne, uh, I really like his work a lot, uh, but I like a lot of people.
Czanne, uh, Paul Czanne, uh, French artist, um, uh, part of the Impressionist group and then later
beyond that, um, uh, did a landscape, mostly he spent most of his time in the south of France.
Yeah, there you go, Czanne. Oh, yeah. Really interesting painter. Um, in terms of the 20th
century, I mean, I have a lot of painters I like. I think the California painter Richard
Diebenkorn is one of my, my favorites, uh, really like abstract or figurative art like that. And,
uh, there's so much, I love to go to museums and galleries and I'm, I'm, I must tell you, I'm,
with respect to the previous question, I'm far more interested in the art than I am the artist. I,
I just, I'm just not interested. I don't know, I don't really, uh, I just don't care, frankly.
The artist is so, so impressed with me. I, I love the work, uh, yeah, toward stuff is just fantastic.
I mean, he looks like he'd be a fairly boring guy to talk to, but I think his work is what is
magnificent, you know? Wow. Yeah, interesting. Yeah, that's great. That's wonderful. Yeah.
Susan Rothenberg is another painter I really like, uh, American painter, uh, really phenomenal.
One of my favorites, uh, is Giorgio Morandi, an Italian, uh, 20th century painter, did still
lifes. Uh, he's really great. Yeah. Rothenberg is fantastic. She's, he's really a wonderful painter.
Fantastic. Oh, wow. It's very, um, I'm starting to get an idea of your, of the style you like.
What's, what's the last one you mentioned? Sorry. Giorgio Morandi, M-O-R-I-N-D, but whatever.
Just the way I'm spelling some of these and Google is helping me.
Not good. Giorgio, G-O-M-O-R-A-N-D-I, I think.
Hmm. I'm not, I'm not, uh, I'm not doing well at finding, oh yeah, found it.
Yeah. Yeah. He's released simple, uh, still lifes. He just did dozens and I saw a great
retrospective at the Tate Modern, uh, a few years ago. It was just amazing stuff.
Well, I'm definitely going to, um, read Grapes of Wrath. That's definitely on my list because, um,
you say it's an interesting novel. You'd, uh, fantastic piece of work. Yeah. Well, my, uh,
one of my favorite novels is, uh, Kafka on, uh, not Kafka, I'm not sure. Sorry. Same author,
though, Norwegian Wood, um, by, um, uh, Hiroki Murakami. He's a, he's a Japanese author. He's
his first kind of novel. It's like about teen angst and, and goes into depression and suicide and
sex and all that stuff. But it's, um, the way he writes is like, normally I wouldn't be interested
in all that stuff or whatever, but the way he writes is so profound. He's like, he's like 80 years
old. He gets up at four in the morning, he writes for four hours, then he goes for a 12k run, then
he comes back and writes for another four hours. And that's what he does every single day. He is
just obsessed with writing. Um, it's, uh, and, and he's just, he's wacky. He's perverted. He's
like, it's, it's, it's really interesting. It's really interesting stuff. Okay. So to end, um,
end on the last question, and this might, this might be, uh, and then we've got a quote, but
end on the last question and this might not, not land with you because, uh, you don't seem to work
very well in the realm of weird, wacky, deep drinks hypotheticals, but I'll ask this, what is the
most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in? Oh, Buddhism. A question. Oh, okay.
Many people say Buddhism. Why Buddhism? Well, I have a, what's called a sort of Western Dharma
model, which is that Buddha was not a God. He was a psychologist or philosopher, whatever.
And, you know, he's just spent a lot of time suffering through, uh, wrong-headed quests.
And, uh, over time, but not by virtue of cerebral power, but by meditation and experience, uh,
I think saw through, uh, you know, the emptiness of human vanity and, and craving and foolishness.
And, uh, in my Buddha death is not, he, Nibbana extinction means death. It means you leave this
shit behind, you know? And, uh, to me, uh, he achieved that. That is, uh, a good death. That
is the meaning, uh, for me, for life, you know, working carefully, assiduously over the course
of one's life to, to create, uh, something, and then to realize that it's perfectly natural at the end
to die. Uh, let's do so honestly. And do so, do so in this kind of position, lying on your side.
He got turned into something else, like a lot of other founders do, but, uh, that is a story.
Yeah. Isn't there a story about him, like leaving his mother's side when he was born,
standing up as a baby and saying, I like, and confessing he is the Buddha. There's like,
that's, you know, and it's like, obviously that's a later adaptation, but no, it's not the Buddha I
find most interesting. Again, I'm not a Buddhist. I just find, you know, some of the ideas and
practices, uh, sitting meditation, for instance, just, you know, compelling.
Yeah. So, so do I actually. I, um, I really, uh, I read the Dhammapada. Um, and it was a very,
yeah, it was a very kind of, um, it was a Westernized version. Like it was in, in
English and it was like really easy to digest. But yeah, some of the great stuff in there. Yeah.
As well. I really love the Bhagavad Gita. If you've ever read that, um, that was, that was
in a way as well. Yeah. Not Buddhism, but it's, it's good. Yeah, Hindu. Yeah. Um,
so we'll just end with a quote from your book. Uh, and it's, indeed, religions are embodied
material processes that shape societies, prompt behavior, affect interaction with the physical
world and organize relations among human beings. Doing all of this in the way that people interact
with bodies, images, objects, places, clothing, food, and pharmacology. I think that's just a
perfect way to kind of wrap up this interview. Guys, go check out the book. If links in the
description as always, um, Dr. David, my professor, David Morgan, you can stick around. I'm just going
to play some trailers and the interview, but you can stick around in the back room and we can chat
after this. Great. Thanks everyone for coming out. It's been fantastic. Um, uh, I love you guys.
We're going to end with two trailers, uh, trailer for the slavery panel coming up and then one on
purity coach. Uh, so see you guys. Bye. Thank you.
