Welcome, everyone, to Deep Drinks Podcast. Did the Bible descend from the heavens?
God's flawless blueprint for mankind? Or were its authors shaped by the historical context
and writings echoing their epoch? Let's dive deep as we explore this mystery.
Deep Drinkers, I'd like to formally introduce a friend of the show, a friend of mine, just an
all-around great guy, Dr. Matthew Munger, who is an Associate Professor of Near Eastern Languages
and Literature at the MF Norwegian School of Theology. His main research interests lie in
the languages and texts of the Ancient Near East, including Akkadian, Hebrew, Syriac,
Slash Aramaic, Ethiopic, and Arabic. He delves into the intersections and connections between
texts written in these languages. In addition to his teaching role, Matthew is also the Program
Director for the Bachelor's degree in Theology of Religion and Society at the MF Norwegian School
of Theology. It's my honor to welcome for the second time on Deep Drinks Dr. Matthew Munger.
Welcome. Thanks, man. Good to be here. I just realized it's not the second time,
but it's the second time you've been on Deep Drinks Podcast, but you've been on panels and stuff,
but yeah, yeah, yeah, second time. Yeah, whatever. It's sending my resume next time. No,
I'm good. Yeah, it's really weird. I've been traveling a lot. I've been in the US and then
in Italy this summer, and it was like hot, hot, hot. And I came back to Norway this week,
and it's like 12 degrees Celsius and raining. It's so cold and so wet, and so it's a funny thing.
Do you prefer the cold or do you prefer the heat?
I prefer the heat, but I like the change. I like mixing things up, because it does get
tiring with those 40-degree days, day after day. I can't do heat. I run hot. I sweat in the middle
of winter, inside of an air-conditioned grocery store. My wife and I did a big world trip,
and on that world trip, we only did Karyon, and we did Japan in the winter, Europe in the winter,
and then Thailand, which a bit of a summer back in Thailand. It was a wild trip, but I remember
when we got to Thailand, I was like, okay, all our clothes were useless, and we just like, let's go.
We went walking around the shops at night and picked up some singlets and thongs and stuff,
and it was awesome. But yeah, it was just a weird shift to being freezing and then hot,
so I know what you're like. So Matthew, what are we drinking?
Oh, yeah. So today, we are on Jameson Irish whiskey.
And I got myself, we got two liters. I was going to put that in the promotion that we've got two
liters of whiskey, but I thought I didn't know. And this is, I mean, this is kind of a go-to
drink anyway, but my dad's name is James, and so I consider myself literally Jameson, James's son,
and so that's like, there's a special thing we call ourselves the clan of Jim, like we call him
Jim. So it's like, we have our own little thing, but yeah, so Jameson is special to me.
Nice. There's an old family rumor, I guess, or we're still trying to work out how true it is,
but in Amy's side of the family, it goes right back to Hague Distillery in Scotland,
and the grandfather, great, great, great, great grandfather was like,
he was arrested for making whiskey on the Sabbath, and then his son went on to make Hague Distillery,
and then the daughter of like, Hague, that son ended up marrying James, Jameson,
and moving over to Ireland or something. So I don't know how true any of this is. This feels
very much like one of those, like, you know, yeah, so, but you know, it'd be cool if that happened,
so, but I like to say that whiskey flows throughout blood. So with that saying,
I got my whiskey glass, and I was just wondering, is this the right size? Sure, I've got a tumbler.
Oh, okay, I better, I better, if I didn't realize, you know, I didn't realize I was with an amateur,
I'll have to get my other whiskey glass. Okay, and do you have it on the rocks?
I am today, I'm doing that because I don't know how long this is going to go,
and I figure if I'm just drinking straight whiskey, on a Friday evening in Norway, you know,
all right, so yeah, let's crack them.
I got, I'll pour myself a generous helping because for me, it's, it's 1 40am. So hopefully,
with enough of it, I'll go straight to sleep afterwards.
I hope you go straight to sleep anyway, but cheers. Cheers, man. Oh, it's been a while since I've had
Jameson, that's delicious. Okay, so let's get into it. So I want you to think back. So you've
told a part of your story when you came on Deep Drinks last time, and you talked about, you know,
like, getting interested in scholarship and, and, but there must have been a time when you didn't know
the stuff that we're going to talk about today. So I want you to first bring us back to that time.
When you first started noticing or seeing these similarities between, you know, ancient Mesopotamian
texts and, say, Genesis or other areas, what did you think of that? And were you a Christian at the
time? And how did you approach it? And what did you first think? Yeah, well, I, you know, it's,
it's kind of hard to remember exactly like the order of things. I mean, even though it's my life,
I think I have my own mythology of how things happened. But like, so I was, I mean, I did,
I was studying theology. So this would have been in 2002, 2003, 2004,
something like that. And we, we had done kind of an intro to the Bible and stuff and move on to
like the more intermediate stuff. And that was when I got like introduced to, I think I talked
about this as the concept of the, you know, the lack of the undying soul in the Hebrew Bible,
and the problems of thinking that the way one conceives of humans and souls and all that kind
of stuff is the same in ancient Hebrew literature as it is in Greek or in modern thinking or whatever.
And so that was like, that was kind of my first like awakening of that things are different.
And then after that, we started on Hebrew and Greek. And so it was like a year of pounding
away at Hebrew and Greek. And, and when we got through that, I, I was frustrated because I kept
asking questions like, why is it like this? And they kept saying, well, it just, it just is.
It's just the way it is. And I'm like, surely there's an explanation. So I started studying
linguistics to try and find explanations for things. And, and I had to pick a minor in that
linguistics degree. And, and I picked Semitic languages. And that was like literally, that
is what like changed the course of my life, I would say, because when I, when I picked this,
the professor, I went and had a chat with this professor, Lutz Ebbzard, this German professor
who was in Oslo at the time, who, you know, says like, yeah, come take Acadian, it's going to be
amazing. It'll, it'll change your life. And I'm like, okay, sure. I went and took Acadian. And,
and like, I can remember, like, I remember we lived in this little town, it's, it's an hour
and a half from where we live now. And, and that summer, I ordered John Unigard's Grammar of Acadian,
which is this like giant book that, you know, he says is, is, should be able to be done in the
better part of an academic year. You know, it's kind of like, it's a textbook for a year of Acadian.
And, and I remember getting that and just like opening it and seeing the cuneiform and like
feeling the chills feeling like, like, I'm entering a new dimension, you know, it was just like, it was
like, it was like, it was crazy. It was such a big thing. And, and then, you know, it turns out
that we're reading things like Gilgamesh and Hammurabi. So the epic of Gilgamesh and the laws
of Hammurabi in this book and in this course. And, and, and even though I had kind of done the intro
to the Bible and all these kind of started getting into that on the theology side, like we've never
really read the texts, like you read about that. There's some connections with ancient Mesopotamia
and you read about that there are things in the Bible which, which have connections and stuff
like that. But we had never actually read the texts. And, and so it was kind of like the thing
with deciding to do linguistics that because the Hebrew and Greek people were like, I just,
just accept it. I was kind of like, well, I want to know why. And, and it was that moment when I
realized I can read these texts that they say there might be connection or they're similar things.
And so during that first year of, of Akkadian, we read all of Gilgamesh and, and started reading,
or read all of Hammurabi and started reading Gilgamesh. And, and I, so I joined this,
this reading group. They called it the Oslo Sumerian Akkadian Seminar or something. And
basically it was, it was three older gentlemen, one, one professor and then two,
yeah, older gentlemen, we'll call them that. And we read, we read together like every Friday
afternoon. And, and it was, it was just mind boggling. So we read through like, through the
cuneiform sign by sign word by word through Hammurabi, Gilgamesh, we read this story, the
Babylonian Theodicy, I'll talk, I'll tell you about that later. And we read in a Middle East,
we read all these kinds of stories. And, and reading them slowly, like sitting together
with other people, where you read every line and discuss what it means. It really changes the way
you see things, like doing, like reading slowly, like, I just can't emphasize enough how important
it is when you're engaging with stuff that it's, I mean, it's sure it's fun to be able to get in
loads and loads of information at once, but sometimes just reading so slowly that you just,
you feel it in a different way. And, and so that process of studying the Semitic languages,
and I went on to do my MA in Semitic languages as well. Just because it got me so excited,
I mean, it was just like, that was such a huge thing to start reading these things. And yeah,
I mean, I was, I was still studying theology, I was still, because the same professor,
Lucenza, told me like, don't stop studying theology, you need to get a master's in theology,
because you'll get a job. If you do Semitic and theology, you'll get a job. If you just do Semitic,
there's not much in it. Wow. And so it's clear that you have such a passion for languages. So
okay, can you, first of all, is, is, what's our first language that we have,
like in the world? Oldest attested language, is that what you mean?
Well, first describe what a tested means, and then. Okay, so yeah, so like, I mean, I don't think we
could ever, I don't think we can talk about the oldest language in existence, because, because
languages are, are, well, with, with some very few exceptions, languages are products of
developments from other languages. And so we really can't, we can't place the times of all
the branchings of all the languages specifically. So it, it's, it would be silly to talk about,
like any, any modern language as being older, and even the ancient ones are so young compared to
the depth of human history, and language history that, that's just that within the past,
6,000 years, we started writing. And that's what makes the difference. And so the first written
languages are, are Sumerian and Egyptian. So we have Sumerian a little bit earlier,
and then, and then Egyptian is there. And then it shows on, it shows up on the scene very quickly.
Is a Kate and Akkadian is like, is it Babylon? Right. So Akkadian is, is the, like the, the
term we use for the oldest layer of what later becomes Babylonian and Assyrian. So the, the Akkadian
empire, the Akkadian kingdom is, is right there in Iraq in Mesopotamia. And is basically what grows
as Sumer is fading in a way. So Akkad is growing. And then Babylon and Assyria are both using the
Akkadian language, but they develop slightly differently so that we get very distinct dialects,
so that you can, you can, when you read, you see very specific features that, that make you know
that you're dealing within Assyrian text or Babylonian text, but the basics are, are the same.
So once you, I mean, once you've learned either Assyrian or Babylonian, then, then you can easily
adapt to the other dialects. Okay. Interesting. So when you first, like, when you first started
to notice these things, was it like a, was it, did it affect your faith at all? Was it just
interesting? Was it something that you were just like, I want to dive into this?
So I honestly don't know. I think so consciously it didn't affect my faith. It didn't hurt my
faith at all. So in my, in my way of dealing, I mean, I'm, I guess I'm someone who accepts those
things that are placed before me. So it's, it was very difficult. There was no reason for me to fight
it that these things were there. And so for me, it was just interesting that, that this was the,
the, the fact. And so then when you start reading and you can see that, well, since the, you know,
since the 18 or early 1900s, when these texts are being deciphered and being, being written about,
there's been these kinds of fluctuations of ways of dealing with it that, that first people are
saying, Oh my God, we've proved the Bible is just a bunch of crap and it's all made up. And then you
get people that say, well, no, you're wrong. It's still perfectly, you know, inspired. And then
you get that middle ground that starts to develop where people say, Oh, well, here's a, here is a,
another expression of an ancient Near Eastern text, which is clearly related to the other
Near Eastern contexts, which is kind of then where, where scholarship goes that we, we understand
that Israel is not a something that's, that's in a vacuum, Judah is not in a vacuum free from
exposure to the, the, the cultures and the lands around it. And so it makes perfect sense that
when you see similar styles of writing in Babylon, in Assyria, in Canaan, that you would also then
find it among the, the, the Judaites and the Israelites, that it just, it's just a natural
understandable thing. And, and so for me, that then wasn't, wasn't a faith issue. It was just more of a
practical issue. And then, I mean, I guess you deal with it in different ways in, with your faith
and say, Oh, well, then God inspired the biblical authors to rewrite it in a different way. And
that was where inspiration comes in. And so I guess it's always modifying
your views, your faith, your thinking in different ways. But I wasn't conscious of that
because I, I still felt very committed to, to the faith. And so I, it didn't feel like I was
negotiating away my faith at that point. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But, but looking back,
I see where there's getting like chinks in the wall. Yeah. Yeah. Like if your faith would eventually
develop, it seems that I've, I've had a friend come over recently and they, and they were very,
they were very big on, they didn't understand, we'll get into this, we will get into this later,
but they didn't understand. And I don't fully understand like history, how do we know the
difference between like this happen between this time and this time? Like how do you, you know,
to a lot of people, these are just scribbles on, you know, tablets or things that we pull out of
the dust and go, ah, must be like, it's like, it's to a lot of people, it feels like guesswork.
And I do want to get into the history of that. But later, but one of the things I brought up
with my friend is, is the, you know, the, the epic of Gilgamesh and it's, it's, and it's like the,
and it's linking with the story of Noah and like the story of the Bible and how it's so,
it seems so clear. And the question that kind of like the, the things that were brought against
back to me were, well, you know, that most, almost every culture in the world has a flood narrative.
As if, as if there was actually a global flood or there was some sort of a flood
and they all recorded it. And so, of course, the Akkadians were going to record the flood
because it happened. And so, and, you know, and so whereabouts they kind of land? Like,
how do we know that the Bible didn't write it first or the, or, or the Akkadians were using
some lost form of the Bible? And so, so it was, I didn't have an answer, except for the fact that
like, all I can do is point to scholarship and say, well, you know, scholars and the historians
don't, like no one's saying, no one's saying that the Bible came first and then, and then,
you know, the Epic of Gilgamesh was written. So could you maybe walk us along that road
towards explaining how the similarities between the Epic of Gilgamesh and the story of Genesis?
Yeah. So I think, yeah, let's, if we just kind of, let's, let's stick to the flood narrative
within it, just, just not so we don't confuse people. But I mean, the Epic of Gilgamesh is a
much larger epic. And, and it's attested quite early. And so it's attested before any,
it's attested before any biblical text is attested. So let's just start with that. Like,
that's, that's one way of looking at it historically is that we can, we can come up with theories
about thing about texts being older than their attestations. So attestations, I mean, like,
when we find them, where do we find witnesses or like, like tablets or, or copies of manuscripts
or anything. And, and there is no biblical text that is attested earlier than Gilgamesh.
And, and Gilgamesh, if we look at the flood narrative, just quite this that part,
what's really interesting about the, the flood narrative in Gilgamesh is that it is building on
an earlier version of the flood narrative. Okay, so the, the, the flood narrative is,
has, has a precursors also, which are even older, which helps us to see that this has been a,
a narrative which has been passed down in a number of different forms. So the, the, in the one
version, the, the pretty much pure flood narrative is in the tale of Atrahasis, where, where that's
the name of the, of the hero. But in, in Gilgamesh, his name is not Pashtim. So it's, it's a different
name. But, but so what happens in Gilgamesh is basically, I mean, the epic, it's amazing,
it's an amazing story. And I would just anybody who hasn't, hasn't read it should just get out.
There's, there's plenty online. And, and so Gilgamesh is, is the king of, of his land. And he
is, I don't know, obviously a troublemaker. And, and so the, the gods send him a companion.
They, they send him someone to, to, to be with. And they, so this, this creature, you know, falls
out of the sky and lands in the woods and, and has sex with a, with a harlot or something for,
for seven days and seven nights and becomes, becomes a man through that. And then, and then
Gilgamesh and, and this guy go off, you know, gallivanting around and having a good time.
And, and then they love gallivanting. Yeah, everybody loves gallivanting.
It's one of my favorite things to do. Yeah. And scoffing. I love scoffing. Like a little
people say that I scoff at the, in the end days, the people will scoff. I'll just love a scoff.
Anyway, I scoff, I scoff. It's my little choice. Yeah, sorry. Yeah. But, but so they, what happens
is they, so I mean, make a long story short, they, they end up killing the, the bull of the gods and,
and the, that's not ever a good thing to kill something belonging to the gods. And so they're,
they were punished. And basically, the, so Anki do who is, who's Gilgamesh's friend dies.
And that is the punishment. And Gilgamesh can't accept that he has to, has to solve this somehow.
And so he goes on a quest to find the tree of life, the plant that gives eternal life.
And so he travels, you know, over the river and through the woods. And he gets to the garden,
the, the garden of the gods, where he then goes in and inside the garden of the gods,
he finds the hero from the flood story. And that's where we kind of get the flood narrative
into Gilgamesh. We, we hear about it because it's woven into like a cameo, like a cameo appearance.
And in, in, inside the Gilgamesh thing. So it's like, it's something that the readers would have
gotten to make, oh, there we are. Nice, nice one. And, and so the, and because the flood hero has
knows where the, the tree of life is this plant that that gives life. And it's down in the bottom
of this pool in the center of the garden. And so Gilgamesh ties stones to his feet and, and
dives down and grabs this thing and pulls it out and, and is going to take it back to his city.
And on the way he takes a nap by, by a pool of water and a snake comes out, grabs the, the plant
and, and escapes and, and then, in the end, then Gilgamesh has to accept that, that he will never
have immortality and he can't bring his friend back and all the sad things. And so it's, it's kind
of a, it's a story about friendship and, and, and you know, the, and the epic quest and also the
problem of death, the problem of mortality. And, and so, but we get this, this flood story baked
into it. And so the, the flood story as we have it is then an iteration of this, this older,
older flood story where there is, I mean, the basically what happens is that the,
you know, the gods create mankind to do their, their tilling and their working in the garden
on earth. Because the gods obviously don't want to have to spend all their time working their
gardens that they made. And the humans make too much noise and bother the gods. And so
the gods say, let's get rid of these creatures. And there's that one god, the one who was
responsible for making the humans that says, no, please, let's not do this. And so he warns
the one guy who is told to build a boat because this is all going to happen and bring along the
animals so that they can repopulate the earth. And they float around in the Akkadian story,
they float around for seven days. And everything is flooded. And then they hop off the, the boat
and repopulate the earth and everybody's happy, happy, happy. So it's the narrative of it is,
is just so strikingly similar to what we have in Noah, the Noah. And there's
even like the, isn't there like a bird that he sends out? It's been a while since I've read it.
And I'm sorry, I did not read it slowly. I know that what you said that really like,
I need to read things slowly because I am, I've got a bit of dyslexia. So I'll like listen to
things. And I'll listen to them on like two times speed sometimes. But when it comes to like,
I've realized when it comes to like philosophy or religious texts, it's very hard to
you get like the very broad strokes, but you don't, you don't actually understand
the core tenants unless you like sit down with like a ruler and like go line by line and just
like, you know, make sure you understand things. So I've really appreciated what you said there.
But, but yeah, so didn't they have a similar situation with, as sort of know where they sent
off where he sent off a dove or some a bird, it was a different bird that he sent off to
get within, they came back with an olive branch or something. Yep. Yep. It's the exact same.
I mean, the same, the entire scheme of how things take place does it overlaps completely.
And so we, what we see in it is, is the, and then, and then of course, then there's the offering at
the end. I think that's kind of what seals the deal for a lot of people when you, when you get to
the point where they get off and then they build an altar and sacrifice something and then the
God smell it, smell the sacrifice. Now, like, dude, that's what we want. Like, give us, give us a
barbecue. Like, burn, burn us some meat and we'll be happy. And that's, and that's kind of what's,
what then becomes okay, well, as long as you then sacrifice to us in the future, then we won't kill
you. It's, you know, and, and this, so I think the, just the fact that it exists, right, the story
exists is, is interesting in its own right. And that kind of goes into the methodology question of
like, well, what do you do with it then? Like, so you read something, you say, well, this, this flood
narrative also exists. And, and we can say, okay, well, how would we, how would we go about asking
the questions of what, what, whether something is older? If, if we assume that texts are true,
okay, then, then you basically just pick whatever text you like the best and then just claim that,
that, that that's the one, right? So that's, that's an, that's a way of thinking about, about the value
or the truth of something that, that says that certain texts contain truth, whereas others ones
don't. And that is a, it's very, very difficult as a historian to find good legitimate reasons
for accepting things that we find archaeologically. So find, you dig up clay tablets, or you dig up
scrolls, or you dig up whatever. It's very, very difficult to establish which text you would assume
to be truthful about past events and which ones you would assume to not be, right? So that's,
that's an immediate problem, is that, is that by singling out a certain group of texts and saying
that they have something based on other methodologies, which would be like saying, well, we have theology
that shows us that these are the true ones. Well, that's a different methodology than the, than the
historical one. So, so if we can't do that, if we can't say, well, we're going to trust the Bible
before anything else or over anything else, then like the next thing we would want to do is, is
look at, well, what, what are these things? Right? What, what is this? And, and for me as a, as a
historian, as, especially as a historian of literature, a text historian, what I'm, what I'm
interested in is, is knowing, first of all, when, when do we find these things? So, so do, I mean,
and in this case, you know, the oldest version of the flood story would be the Dead Sea Scrolls.
So, so probably second century BC, and the oldest attested versions of the flood story in Acadian
are 18th, 19th century BC. So already they're like in the, in the physicalness, like they're,
there is a massive difference. Now, it's possible that we, it's certain that we don't have everything
from antiquity. So there could have been previous texts. And there of course could be oral traditions
and all these kinds of things. So, so it doesn't help us that much to talk about when we find the
things, but I think it's more tangible to talk about it than to talk about some things being better
than others, just because. And then if we take a step beyond that, then we can look at these,
we can look at the way things are integrated into their current contexts. And so when we,
when we look at the way the flood story is integrated into its, its current context,
it is, it is part of a very small collection of texts, which all have a very interesting
connection to Mesopotamia and other Mesopotamian texts. So the first 11 chapters of, of Genesis,
they are actually quite, you know, they're, they're quite short and they, it's the creation stories,
the two different creation stories, we get the, the Canaan Abel thing, we have some genealogies,
and then we have the flood story, and then we have the spreading of the people's populations
of the world, and, and the Tower of Babel. And it's this, this kind of like prehistory, and, and
these things, many of these texts are very closely related to other Mesopotamia, they're little
speaking. The whiskey's taking effect. Yeah, the whiskey's taking effect. It's the Holy Spirit.
So, but it's, I mean, and it relates to other Mesopotamian texts. And then we move on
from after that to, to the Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph stories, where, where the Mesopotamian
analogies are very, very different. So the first 11 chapters of the Bible have this thing where,
where we see many different kinds of Mesopotamian sources that, that are reflected in the source
material. And we find the flood story that integrated into this kind of source building
thing. And so when you, when you read the story of Atrahasis, so the, the earlier flood story
in, in Akkadian, it is, it is definitely, it's definitely its own text. Okay, so it's not integrated
into something new. And so it's part of a literary world where, where it's being written and, and
transmitted independently. And then we see it shows up in Gilgamesh as a part of a larger
epic narrative. And in that way, it's similar to what happens in the Bible that, that this, this,
this epic of the kind of the movement from the creation up until Abraham's birth, which is the
first 11 chapters of Genesis is, it takes this flood narrative in as one of its building blocks,
just like, just like Gilgamesh. So, okay, that's interesting. So I've heard Dr. Josh talk about
this idea. And Dr. Kip Davis talk about this idea that the, the goal of the, the, the, the
primeval history in the, in Genesis was a polemic against Mesopotamian society. So it was like a
big like, our God's better, we're better, like what you guys like, isn't, isn't it? We have what's,
we have the right philosophy, the right ideas, the right perspective. What do you think about that
idea? Yeah. So, I mean, that's, that's the classic. That's the classic.
Oh, hang on a sec. You're, you're breaking up. I can't see you and I can't hear you.
Hello. I don't know.
It looks to me now. Okay. Cause I, I see everything looks fine on my, on my screen.
Okay. You're good.
I think so. You're very, you're very pixelated. But I can see you and hear you.
Okay. Yeah. Weird. Cause you blinked out for a minute on my screen, but I stayed fresh.
And yeah, it'll always be fresh on your end. And then you'll look at the video later and you'll
be like, and then there's so many times I look at myself and I'm like, I don't like saying something.
I'm like, oh, it's frozen. Sorry. Yeah. Okay. So yeah, like I said earlier, like thunderstorms
rolled through at like right when we were going to start earlier. And so the power link off at
some point. So if you lose me, then I will, I will do my best to get on with my phone or something
and, and jump in. Okay. Well, we can all hang out and wait for you if that happens,
but it should be fine. It looks fine now. Okay. So what were you saying? Yeah. So
basically the, the idea of the, of the, of the, the primeval history as a polemic against the
Babylonian, whatever, hegemony or something that would be a good term is, is consensus
in biblical scholarship. I think it's pretty, it's pretty standard. I think I definitely agree
that that's there. I wonder from my perspective whether it's not as much a stick it to the man
polemic as a creating our own version of the things we've been exposed to.
Polemic. So, so from my perspective, I think if we're thinking the time
after the Babylonian captivity, so we're, we're in the, when the, you know, 500 late 500s early,
in the 400, 300s BC. And, and these, this, I mean, we, we do have very good historical evidence
that the Israelites or the Judahites were in, in Babylon and would have been exposed to Babylonian
things and culture. And, and so I don't know if everything has to be like, is battle this epic,
like Yahweh is the one kind of thing, but it's like, Hey, so we know the, that the world was made
kind of like this, but what's our story? And, and we're saying in a way that it's just, it's
either develops or, or at least it's written in a way that is making sense for the people that
are hearing it, who have still have a, a Judahite is, is relied identity, but, and have then an idea
of who their God is in all this, but who then can still relate to the Babylonian culture,
which they've been exposed to. I often wonder if the Guatemala Buddha, the Buddha, if he,
if he came, if he grew up in the Middle East or somewhere else, if he would
have the concept of reincarnation, if that would be part of his, his philosophy, because,
of course, he grows up in, in Nepal, India kind of area, and he's right in the thick of Hinduism
and these ideas about reincarnation. And of course he goes and becomes enlightened. So the story goes,
and then, and then, you know, in his philosophy, there's reincarnation. And it's like, well,
of course, but I, I often wonder if like, if he grew up, you know, in Egypt or something,
if they would have the same, or in, you know, anywhere else, if they would have the same
like philosophies or if it's just like, if everything's just a product of, like,
if we think of it supernaturally, you could posit anything. But if you think about like,
naturally, it just, it just seems to make sense. Like if it's a natural phenomenon of like a
profound teacher of some sort. And someone did ask a question a second ago, a while ago, saying,
um, is, are there, are there, um, written languages earlier, um, in East Asia or in other parts of
the world? Or is it just like, is that the earliest language full stop? So as written,
as far as I know, the, um, that there is not an attested written language earlier than
um, than the, um, than, than what we have in, in the Acadian, I mean, Sumerian stuff.
So there are some, um, there's some, so I, I, I want to be precise. Like, so there are some
pictographs, like some pictures that, that, that are, have been found in cave drawings and stuff
like that, like in, in China and, and in, in East Asia, but, but they don't, they, they're not a
script at that point. And so we're, we're talking about like writing language as a, as a script,
which can be productive in that way. And so, but Chinese, I mean, we assume that Chinese was written
as early or earlier, we assume that there were other pictographic languages that were written
down at different points, but we have no attestations of it. And this is one of the reasons why we have
these things is because just happens to be that the Egyptians like to carve things in stone
and the, and the, the Sumerians like to push things into clay, like, like etch things into clay.
And these are materials that end up surviving. So it's not a, there's nothing ideological in, in
having Mesopotamia in Egypt be the, be the oldest ones from my perspective. It will be lovely to
find some, some real, some real evidence of other stuff, but we just don't have it. But, but Chinese,
I mean, Chinese is attested pretty early, but I think it's, I think it's a millennium later when we
have the first actual texts, but everyone assumes that they were being, that there were things being
done that's kind of proto Chinese script already at an earlier date. So what you're saying is right
in that, what you're saying is that Joe Rogan is right and there are ancient civilizations with
alien technology. So just want to get that clear. That's what you're saying, right? Yeah,
I, isn't it obvious that we've, there's just all lost to time. It's just all lost to time.
I don't know why we would argue with Joe Rogan. Yeah, exactly. Atlantis and everything. I don't
know if he believes in Atlantis. He does have some interesting, some conspiratorial clips about
ancient civilizations. Yeah, no, but I mean, it's, that's pretty popular these days. You know, I've
seen, I've watched some of the stuff and it's, it's fun. It's fun because there's, again, there's
this kind of idea that you, you can find a code and, and then there's always like some kind of,
oh, all these pyramids are aligned across the world and the certain latitude. And so,
yeah, we must all have aliens came down at the same spot.
One of the things that used to drive me nuts was I used to work for a surveying town planning
company. I actually just quit a month ago after 11 years of working there. But we used to,
I now do video editing full time, but we used to use surveying instruments and the surveying
instruments were like, you know, would measure pretty accurately. Sometimes we would have things
that would measure, you know, a digital level would measure between one tenth of a millimeter
in height, different, different, you know, very accurate. And, and we have to set out shopping
centers. So like just like just a basic one story or two-story shopping term, usually one story,
within like one or two mills. And we, you know, and over the course of like a laser
with your Pythagoras' triangle of like the backside and the long side, you're getting like,
I think if you're out on your backside by like one or two seconds, you're like, you're like
out by like, I think it's like, it's been a while and I'm a bit drunk now, but about two millimeters
or something. I was like one millimeter over 200 meters or something. And I just remember hearing
my friends say like, we have no instruments in the world that can, that could make now, that
could make a pyramid as accurate as the pyramid and like lay out the foundations. And I was like,
and I looked it up and I was like, dude, it's two feet out. It's like, it's like something like
two feet, like I'm like, that would be, that would be torn down. Like you couldn't even have that in
like, it's so, that's so inaccurate for like a shopping center, not even talking about like,
you know, a big building, like, or it's just, it's just misinformation just gets out there,
like really easily. Yeah. And, and I think like the, this is, this is something that like, I guess
it's part of what we call, what we basically call Oriental, Orientalism in scholarship.
So it's this kind of, it's, it's, it's a result of this Western idea that anybody else that ever
did anything well, must have had help from the outside. So like, I mean, it's like, it's, it's
like, there's, there's just no way that the Egyptians could have built these pyramids.
And so we say like, it's just impossible. And instead of saying it's amazing, they say
possible, you know, it's like stupid, like, they must be aliens because it would have been so hard.
And, and I mean, but I think, I just think we don't give ancient peoples enough credit. And we
don't, I mean, we, we generally don't give non industrialized peoples credit for much.
Right. And, and so the, I mean, just forgetting that, that the world was not industrialized until
a couple of centuries ago. But we, we just have this idea that these, these great wonders
are, are impossible, but they're not impossible. They're just amazing. And, and so it's something
about like the, being able to look at those things, look at the pyramids and say like, wow, like,
like there, there are things that are possible with ingenuity and lots of manpower and, and
commitment, right? And, and those things, I mean, surely we wouldn't build those with manual labor
today, but obviously they did. And I'm, I'm the kind of person who's much more interested in
talking about things as that, that are, right? I mean, they are built, the pyramids are there,
like that it's, it's cool. Like, yeah. And, and like you say, it's, then when we don't give in to
this idea that, that they're perfect to the, to the 10th of a millimeter, like, you know,
Oh, I'm not judging them for, but, but, but back then I'm just saying like people say, you know,
because people will say that, like, they're perfectly in line, you know, and, and then
they'll, they'll leave out the fact that they're not. Yeah. Exactly. Or like the, even the thing
with like lining up with like, lining up with a true north or something, or, or, or along one of the
lateral lines, whatever, it's like, yeah, but within a meter, like, it's like, or within
these things, and these went, when they plot these pyramids across the whole earth,
like it's within like 700 kilometers. Like it's not, it's not like they're all like dead on a line.
They're like, and then, and then you remember, where did people survive in ancient times? Like,
where, where could you live? You could live where it didn't get cold. I mean, it was just like, it
took a long time to be able to navigate, like building big society outside that pretty, pretty
narrow belt where things stay warm. It's just like, there's a, something about the tropics that,
that you, you survive better when you have access to a lot of water, and who have basically,
not freezing temperatures, so not Norway, like the reason why I would, I mean, like the Stone Age
in Norway goes like, you know, several thousand years later than the Stone Age in the Middle East,
because like, people just didn't, like, you didn't build civilization up here. Like,
every winter, everyone would have just died. Like, it took a long time to develop the technologies
and the willpower to, to survive it. It actually, what you said there is, is quite interesting,
quite interesting, like in, there's that bias that happens with like, they must have had outside
help. And, and Megan Lewis actually researched this. Dr. Josh's wife, a serologist, she said that
it actually, there's a lot of racism that goes on in this initially. But to think back, like,
think back when the pyramids were built, or when Mesopotamia was in its prime, I will say, or like,
you know, when this, what we're talking about was happening, the people who were writing these
stories, for one, they're not going, this is the holy, like, like, they're not going like thinking,
they're not thinking 2000 years in the future, 3000 years in the future, they're thinking they're like,
the main character of a story, like they, they're their own main character, like they've got their
whole lives ahead of them, or maybe they're at the end of their lives, but they're like, they,
they don't see themselves as we see them, which is like, the term NPC, like non playable character,
or like a side, you know, and like, I had my, I was talking to my little brother the other day,
and he was saying that he has a friend who he met in Japan when he was living there,
who has just since then, has been traveling the world and just living their best life.
And every time he sees their stories or talks to them, he sees, he says he feels like a side
character in their story, like he just realizes how little, like, how little he's accomplished.
And it was a joke, but it was, it was interesting how it's like, everyone does see themselves as
like the main character and like taking on the world. And like, you forget that the people,
like we see the Bible and these literature, this literature as like, how it affects us
and why it's important to us. And we, we, we blasted with all of this like, context for what
it means to us, where the person writing it may have, may have been a, an interesting tradition,
it may have been a religious text that, but it was important to them and they were the main
character of that, that kind of dead and gone. Like it's, it's, it's just interesting to kind of
get yourself at your own head and kind of see that, like to even try to comprehend that other
people exist and other, you know, and they can think and do things, you know, it's, um, yeah.
Yeah, no, I, I, yeah, I totally agree. And I think that's, um, it's, they're
like the way it's just funny because it's the way we conceptualize religious texts or truthful texts
as opposed to fiction or something else. Right. So we have this idea that, that there's that,
that the literature that was produced was there to be holy or something like that. And, and like,
so one of the, one of the positive things that came out of my, my past, my, my former self was,
was that after we came back from, from living in Mali and, and having learned this, the Fulani
language, I, I discovered, oh, I discovered that I had been incredibly racist in being there,
like that, that institutionalized racism was so much a part of the fact that I was there
to translate the Bible for these people. Right. And it was a horrible realization for me
to kind of wake up and just say like, wait a minute, why, what, what give me the, the authority
to go to a people and say, forget everything you know and, and listen to my story about what's real.
And, and so it was, it was horrible for me when, like that was one of the, I think that was one of
the biggest things I had to deal with that started my kind of process of deconstructing or, or, or
athe, atheism and ismening, as it were. But it was, but I was, I was really lucky. So actually,
it's, it ties back into something I was talking about earlier, this Sumerian, Akkadian seminar
that I went to in Oslo. So after I came back, when I came back from, from Mali, I went back
to that group, because these were, I mean, these were really nice people and they were still alive.
So, so we, we got the, we got to hang out and we're reading Akkadian texts. And one of the
professors, Jens Brovik, who's a Norwegian history of religions professor, who is, is like,
I mean, it's one of the people that I just don't, I cannot fathom how he can remember so many
symbols. Like, I mean, he does, he does like, you know, Chinese and he does, Tibetan does,
you know, all these Indian languages and Sanskrit and Akkadian and Sumerian and,
but anyway, so he was, he was part of this. And, and he said to me when I came back, he said,
oh, what did you, did the Philonies, do they have any, you know, good religious texts? Because we
have this, this series, book series, the sacred scriptures of the world, that, that if you've
got something, we could, we could publish it. And I was like, I don't even know. Like, and that blew
me away, like that ruined me. I was dead inside. Because like, in that setting, I thought I was
an academic, you know, yeah, operated as an academic. And, and in my other part of my life,
I was this religious fanatic. And, and then like, it hit me like, dang, I don't know what I'm doing.
Like, I have no, like, and, and so I started reading and like, I found this massive rich
literature of, of religious and, and both religious and mythological and, and just,
just a literature that, that I had never known about. And so I translated one of the texts
into Norwegian with some, some creation stories, and then one of the, one of the epics into
Norwegian for the series. And so it was like, that for me was so cathartic. It was like so
important from like, real life, like transitioning out of being like, Oh my God, I'm a horrible
person to be like, Well, I was a pretty horrible person, but at least now I can turn it around a
little. And there is this, sorry, keep going. Oh, no, no, go on. I was going to say, there is
like this, like this smugness of like, you know, walking around telling people like, we've got
the answer to, to this, like we've got the answer to your religious, you know, but one of the things
that, one of the things that really hit home for me was I was watching a vice documentary back in
the day when vice was cool. It was, it was, I think it was Hamilton's Pharmacopia. It was like about,
about like psychedelics and things like that. And it was talking about how there was interviewing
this anthropologist or someone who was interested in like African religion and African peoples.
And he kind of mentioned just like, just, just, just like flippantly that like voodoo wasn't,
is just part of African, it was just part of African religion, some, some, some African religions.
It's not, it's got this negative connotation and everything, almost everything that I, you know,
you watch Big Bang Theory in this day, you know, Penny says, oh, you don't want to mess with voodoo.
And, you know, voodoo is like, but, but really, like voodoo was like religious, religious practice.
It wasn't about like, you know, the stabbing, the needles and the dull, that's not all it is.
There's more to it. But that was like religious expression for some communities in, on the continent
of Africa, probably in only one or two countries, or I don't know enough about it.
But that, that understanding that like, damn, I've viewed this like one thing as like black,
like literally black magic, like it's like this evil horrible thing. When I didn't even consider,
like imagine if there were like voodoo missionaries, like walking around like suburbia and like
Seattle, like telling you like, hey, by the way, like we've got like, you know, there'd be like,
you know, in some places in the US, it would be like, it'd be like a war zone or someplace
anywhere in the world. It'd be like, it would be a horrible thing. It'd be like a bad, you know,
but yeah, that's such a good point. Like for so many reasons, but like, I mean, the last thing
you said, like, I mean, can you, like, I mean, America prides itself on, on having freedom of
religion. But like, can you imagine if every religion came and missionized, like evangelized
for their religion, openly, publicly all over the place, like made it a real marketplace of
religions, like, I mean, very quickly, there would no longer be freedom of religion.
Yeah, in all we trust on the on the dollar bill or whatever. Exactly. But, but like,
but it's really funny because one of the things that this is, it just really brought up a memory of
like one of the things we were told when we moved to Mali was that we shouldn't cut our hair when
we're there, because people would collect it and use it. And, and that's such a weird thing, because
like, on the one hand, it's, it's affirming the, the power of voodoo, like that. And
I mean, it's, yeah, it's, it's like accepting that there's something in your hair that would be,
have some kind of power. So you need to be careful. But at the same time, like, obviously,
we're going there to say your stuff has no power. And so it's like a weird thing. But, but like,
but that means it just kind of shows that what we think of a voodoo, like you would say like,
Oh, it's magic or whatever. But like, basically, what it's saying is that your essence is in your
body. And all the parts of your body that fall off, your nails, you're in your, you know, your,
your hair and whatever, like, then there's some essence of you in that. And by getting
part of that, then you have some power over the whole. And that's actually really interesting.
It's, it is. And it's, it's interesting. Now I'm getting, I don't know if it's the whiskey or
whatever's happening, but I'm getting like memories. Like I remember when I, when I, when I lost the
job as a youth pastor, I got really depressed. And it's part of my spiral downhill. I'm actually
going to tell my story on Derek's channel soon, but go into more depth. But, but I started smoking
weed for the first time in my life when I was like 20 and my roommate introduced it to me.
And, you know, I was smoking all the time. And this girl that I was kind of flirting with at the
time was like, let's go watch Hostel. It's like a horror movie. And I was like, no, no. And I remember
thinking to myself, I remember saying like, I don't know if I said that, but I was like, I don't
watch horror movies, but I remember thinking to myself like, no, I don't want to let the, I don't
want to let the evil spirits in. I'm happy. Like, let's just chill here in the garage and smoke weed.
I don't want any of that. You know, like it was, it was such this like self-righteous, like the,
the, the, um, or even Pokemon. Like I used to, I used to always tell Pokemon was evil, right?
And I remember like when I, when I started walking away, like, like trying to like
refigure at my Christianity after everything happened, I was like, I'm going to watch Pokemon
and I'm going to look for this evil that's in Pokemon. And funny enough, this all ties into
what we're talking about. I remember like, I think it was like seven or eight episodes in, I'm 25
years old, rewatching a show from my childhood, like Pokemon and I'm watching it and I was 22 or
something. And, um, and it's so funny. I'm looking for the evil. I'm like, I'm waiting for the evil
and like, maybe it's the psychic Pokemon. Maybe that's the evil. Maybe it's the, I'm watching it
because everyone in church told me it's evil. And then, um, they're stuck out on this, this raft
and they're like, Oh, what are we going to do? How are we going to find land? And then Brock says to
Ash, one of the characters and says, Hey, what about the story of Noah? Noah actually sent out a,
you know, and then Ash goes, yeah, let's be like Noah. And he throws his like bird Pokemon out
and his bird Pokemon goes and finds land. And I was like, damn, like this is teaching kids
Bible stories and this is evil. Like it was just, uh, yeah, it was, um, you know, and people would
say, Oh, the devil works in mysterious ways or whatever. But it is interesting how you have
those presubsitions about different beliefs and ideas. And, and, and that kind of brings us to
like my, like what, what literally is like what's really on my mind these days. And, and what I'm
trying to express is that those things don't show up randomly. Like the fact that you thought that
Pokemon was evil is not because you read Pokemon or watched Pokemon or looked at the cards and
thought, look at that evil Pokemon. Like it's, it's because somebody told you that or because
that was said in your presence and because it was an assumption within the community of your
values. And, and this is like, this is something that's super important when we're talking about
like the idea of religious texts is that things become important. They become religious,
they become authoritative through communities that define them as such.
And so like saying that Pokemon is evil is a way of like, is a way of defining something,
but that only happens when people actually exert authority on others. Right. And, and I mean,
we absorb so much of what goes on around us. And I think like sometimes we forget that
like how susceptible we are of, of picking up the, the things that are said or talked about
or that we read or we watch on TV or even things that are part of the Big Bang theory or part of
whatever, you know, we do, we process so much. And so, and that is what the idea of, I guess,
I guess we call it like the sociology of religion, where, where we are not alone.
Like it's not me and a text making a decision, but it's me and everything I've ever experienced
with anyone ever. Right. And so it's, it's not just you saying, oh, Pokemon, but it's like you
saying my upbringing. Right. Yeah. And it's Harry Potter, and it's Lord of the Rings, and it's horror
films, and it's all kinds of stuff that we were told both explicitly and implicitly that we would
go to hell if we are involved with, right. Because that was the implication in basically
everything. It was like, oh no, you don't want to learn to dance. You want to be awkward until
you're 90 years old because that is bad and the devil will get you. Right. I mean, there's just
so many things that, that are so ridiculous. But when the communities around you agree that those
are things that we're going to shy away from, or we're going to say bad, or that we're going to
say are great and amazing and the best things ever, that's what we really feel. And like real
feelings because that's what our body reacts to is saying like you walk into a room and you see
a bunch of Pokemon cards. If you're indoctrinated into that, you're going to be like, evil is in
the room. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. It's like, well, they're like Tower of Cards. They're talking about
evolution, you know, in Pokemon. They have ghost Pokemon and psychic Pokemon. And it's also funny
enough, it actually draws on a lot of Shinto. There's a bit of Shinto in there as well.
So just, I have another random aside on this talking about random things in the past. But
when I was a really strong Christian, I bought, you don't, do you play, you don't play video games
to you, I imagine. So I've, I have played video games in my life. Yes. Yeah. Okay. Do you play,
I imagine like, yeah, you probably live a more active lifestyle based on the stories I hear
about you running through the desert and stuff. But basically, I stopped at World of Warcraft.
Like that's the, that's why I changed. Yeah. Okay. So Elder Scrolls, do you know Elder Scrolls?
Like oblivion. So I bought the expansion to oblivion, Shivering Isles. And it's very like,
you know, ominous and this was, but in the game, it had like magic. Obviously, you could play magic
character as an RPG and you could play YouTube magic and two things. One of my friends said,
oh, you stay away from doing anything with magic, right? And I'm like, oh, well, you know,
I was like, well, I got to kind of revive my health by using magic. So
so I was like, kind of like, I only use, you know, and I was like, I don't really, you know,
but and then another thing, another friend from work who was this like Christian lady,
who I would spend days packing shelves with at a supermarket. And we're talking about the Bible
whole time. I told her about this. And she said, do you know friendship with the world
means your enemies to God? Yeah. And I was like, oh, and she goes, and she goes, you know, you
need to destroy it. So I went home and I snapped that disc that cost me $50 of my pocket money and
snapped it through the bin. And I heard God say to me, you just did something out of religion.
And I was like, oh, you know, so it was like, I didn't even get like the satisfaction of it
because I was I did something out of religious, you know, but anyway, later on, I found out this
this, this lady, Paul, you know, she fell for a, for a scam, like husband in Africa.
And she like literally spent sent him hundreds of the thousands of dollars and moved there.
But it was a second, it was a second husband. And I said to her, I said to her, I was like,
hey, doesn't because we'll, you know, we'll vary, we'll talk about these things all day at work.
And it doesn't the Bible say that like, you know, you want to get divorced, like, you know,
and I was trying to understand, I was a new Christian 16 years old. And she said,
no, and she turns to me, she says, no, she says, no, because on the cross, Jesus said,
it is finished. And I went, and I was like, what about my weight? What? So you can do
whatever you want. But like, I can't play video games because like Jesus didn't finish it for me.
Like, what do you mean? Like, I just remember like, she kind of rebuked me in that moment.
Like, and I was like, okay, like, and I just kind of like, went back to packing my shelves and
stuff. But it's just interesting how it was fine for her to remarry, get divorced and remarry.
But for me, I wasn't able to play video games. Anyway, but again, like, I mean, so
just just kind of thinking about that is brings me like makes me think about the way we think about
rules and regulations and laws, because it's just so random, right? What is actually in the Bible?
And not or it seems, it seems to me, like, there are so many things that are mentioned
in, in ancient literature. And then there's like a selection of those things end up in the Bible.
Like, there's so much. Yeah, go on. Well, I was going to ask, can we so we've kind of gone on
like a random drunken, you know, rant, rant, but I'm okay with that. But I do want to talk a
little bit about like, so there are like things like the law codes, the code of Hammurabi. And,
you know, can you talk more about like the Mesopotamian influence on the Bible? Yeah. So,
I mean, and honestly, this, this is probably like one of this was one of the most formative things
that I that I dealt with through my studies was was the the law codes, because I actually I wrote
my my thesis, my master's thesis in in Old Testament studies in on the comparison of the
laws of Hammurabi and the the the laws in Exodus 21 to 24. And I picked out a couple of examples
that that like are so obvious, like that you that there's no question that the law codes
and Genesis know about the ancient Near Eastern law codes. Well, well, do you have those references
handy? I'm looking up the code of Hammurabi and Genesis. And the first result is answers in Genesis.
And the title is Hammurabi or Moses, who is the authority?
So, let me let that is so funny. Okay, sorry. I'm gonna
so I'm gonna find something here and I'm gonna share it with you.
Oh, well, just give me a second, because things operate slower after a few drinks.
So, I did, I did, I threw together a few slides to there we go. And so now,
if you let me show this, I'll just jump to it. I will. But I just want to say that
when I was on with KIPP ones, we had like a three hour podcast drinking straight whiskey,
go to the start and go to the end and you just said the difference.
Yeah, the whole thing.
Yeah, I had to keep putting up the speed of which I was
one 1.25 1.5.
At some point, like KIPP just stopped talking in coherent sentences and would just be like,
you know,
I think, and it was slow. It was great.
Oh, that's the magic. Hey, only on deep drinks. That's the magic.
And it's funny because each video I have to like go back through and ask someone to manually
review it. So I think they like pick up that we're drunk or something and mainly review it for like,
at sense revenue. Yeah, cool.
So this is the one that is like the that. So I mean, any lecture,
any lecture that I had that I've had on the ancient Near Eastern law codes and stuff,
I always use this. So this is like this. This I would do it at university.
But so this is the laws of Ash Nuna, which is older than the
than the laws of Hammurabi. So when we so I just yeah, so I mean, I keep this this in here to
show that we have three basically three good witnesses for it. But anyway, I'm I'm confusing
myself because of the James. Anyway, so read the text. So it says that if an ox goers another ox
and causes its death, both ox on owners shall divide among themselves the price of the live ox,
and also the meat of the dead ox. So this is a law that's saying, if you have a bull,
let's call it a bull, because it's easier to understand a bull goes and kills another bull.
What you do is you sell the meat from the dead bull, and you take the value of the live bull,
and then that you have to split that value between the two. So the owner of the live bull
is going to have more money, because a live bull is more than a dead bull. And he has to pay kind
of the difference to the dead guy's bull, right? Okay, and the next law 54 in the laws of Ushnana
is if an ox is known to goer habitually, and the authorities have brought the fact to the
knowledge of its owner, but he hasn't done anything with it. So he hasn't dehorned his ox,
and it goes a man and causes his death, the owner shall pay two thirds of a Mina of silver.
Okay, so what we need to know about the language here is that when it says a man,
what it means is a tax paying local man. It's like you're part of society. You're not a slave,
you're not a woman, you're not excluded from fellowship. So if an ox kills an important person,
a landowner, we could call it in Greek society would be, then you have to pay two thirds of Mina
of silver. But if it's a slave, then it's only 15 shekels of silver. It's like a 10th or a 40th
or something like that. Like, sorry, I'm losing my ability to think through exactly the numbers.
But so what we have is three laws here. One, ox causes a death of another ox. They divide it up
to if you kill a person who is an esteemed member of society, they get a large amount of money
that they pay. And then if it's a slave, it's less. Humorabi has a very similar thing.
It starts with if an ox gore is a man to death while it's passing through the streets, no big deal.
So if you kill somebody randomly, if an ox just randomly kills somebody, no big deal. But if he's
a known gore, that's such a weird word, isn't it? He's a known gore. And the authorities of his city
city quarter. So his local authorities notify him that it is a known gore, but he doesn't
blunt the horns. So cut off the tips or whatever, put up, put some cotton swabs on the end.
There's a construction site like red. Yeah, yellow flags or whatever. Yeah.
Ox gores to death, a member of the Awilo class. And this is where, so the translation, this is
basically trying to make you understand that if you are high society, if a high society person is
killed, it's 30 shekels of silver. But if it's somebody's slave, then it's 20 shekels of silver.
Mm hmm. So let's look at the Bible. When an ox gores a man or a woman to death,
and the ox, the ox shall be stoned and his flesh shall not be eaten, but the owner of the ox shall
not be liable. That's exactly like we saw in in Hammurabi. And just to be clear, this is,
this is the later. This is the Bible. Yeah, but like, but like later, right?
So like Bible, right, right. It's the southern, the southern monger is coming out.
But, but so what, what, yeah. And so, I mean, that, that would be the interpret, I mean,
the way I would read it is that this is a development of the same law into a new context as a later
understanding of it, within this real light context.
Mm hmm. Right. And so you have the same thing that if it's somebody, if, if it kills a man or
woman, the ox has to be killed and the owner is not liable. But what we have is a development in
the Israelite understanding is that the flesh shall not be eaten. So finding it as impure
because it killed somebody. So we have development here. And that's why I would think it would be
later. Okay, okay. So it's changing what we think of it. But the basic structure of it is the same,
that we have kill somebody randomly. If it's an ox, it's not that big a deal. But let's go ahead and
just say that don't eat it, kill the ox, but you don't have to pay a fine. But if the ox has been
accustomed to gore, if it's usually goreing people, and its owner has been warned by the city council,
but hasn't restrained it, and it kills a man or woman, the ox shall be stoned and his owner
shall be put to death. What? Yeah, that's crazy. That's Exodus 21 in the Bible.
Man, Exodus 21 does so many much heavy lifting for like atheist commentators on the Bible. Like,
it's got the slavery passages, it's got the putting to death. I never knew of Exodus 21.
Like, I never, like, sunk it in until I watched the atheistic experience with Matilda Huntie,
quoted, quoted. But yeah, it's, yeah, it's wild, wild chapter. So, and this is, for me, one of the,
also one of the cornerstones of how obvious it is that the Bible was written in stages.
Mm-hmm. Because when you look at Exodus 21 to 24, and then you look at, at the, like the,
at the, you look at Leviticus, and you look at Deuteronomy, you see that there are definite
changes in these laws, developments in these laws over time. Like, there's, there's no question.
But anyway, let's stick to the point. So,
and then we have this kind of aside that if a ransom person is imposed on the owner and their
owner should be blah, blah, blah, it's just kind of this random Israelite law. But then we go to
verse 31, it says, if it gores a boy or a girl, the owner shall be dealt with according to this
same rule. So what it's saying is, is that when we talk about a man or a woman, we don't mean
just any man or a woman. And so what's really interesting with this passage is it's telling
us about the hierarchical structures. So it's saying that there is, if you're a son of a wealthy
landowner person, or a daughter of a health, a wealthy landowner person, landowner person,
then you're worth more than the slave that we're going to get to in the next verse.
Yeah, it's, it's, it's interesting because this goes back to what you're saying about,
like, reading the text slowly. Like, reading it slowly, reading it fast, you just blaze right
over that. Yeah, I am mixing, you know, but, but like, why was this mentioned? So are you saying
that I missed your, I don't, I looked at my notes for it, but there was that class of people it said
before. Is that kind of what this is doing? It's saying like, hey, this is kind of like
nudge, nudge, wink, wink, the class of the people we're talking about. But then it's like, oh,
better mention both boys and girls. Is that what it's saying? Yeah. And so, I mean, my, my,
my way of understanding this text is that it's just specifying that there are not only the land
owners as a class, but there are also their wives, which then shows up in the, in verse 29,
a man or a woman. And it also shows up then in, in, in 31, where it says a boy or girl,
which means that the son or a daughter of a landowner, so of an Israelite in this context.
So it's like, if you're a real Israelite, man or woman, or boy or girl, then the owner of the
bull will be put to death if they get killed. But then we look at verse 22 and at 32, sorry,
this is if the ox scores a male or female slave, the owner shall pay to the slave owner 30 shekels
of silver and the oxen, the ox shall be stoned. So if it's slave, it's not worth the same as a free
person. Right. Because, and I mean, so we can give a shout out to, to Josh and digital, digital
Hammurabi's new publication, which is the second edition of the slavery in the, I don't remember
the name of the volume, sorry, the slavery in the Bible. It's, it's, it's called, it's called,
that's the Bible and all slavery. But let me just, let me just show my screen quickly. Yep.
Coming up, we actually have him coming on to talk about it. But I just really want everyone to
appreciate the clickbait that I used here. Like tell me this is amazing. So is he drinking? Is he
drinking? What's he drinking? It's coffee. It's just coffee. Ice coffee. Well, I chose ice coffee,
because that's what I'm drinking, but it looked better than just like a cup of coffee. But he's
just said coffee. I just want everyone to see book of slavery and genocide. And it's got someone
holding the Bible so happily, just like, ah, my favorite book. But it's clever because we're
talking about his book on slavery and genocide, but also the book, but also his book is commentary
on the Bible, which has slavery and genocide. So I just needed to, like, I don't feel, I feel like,
you know, I've got, I've got a marketing degree. I feel like sometimes my, my skills don't get
through to everyone. And I just, I just needed to promote them when I can. But yes, he's got a
second book coming. Well done. Well done. But yeah, so, but like, but, but that's the,
so, so that's, I mean, that's like implicitly in what we're talking about now is that the, so that
the Israelites have their own law code in the Bible, which is modifying and adapting,
but also quoting verbatim, the laws of ancient Sumeria and, and, and Babylonia.
So, and so what happens here, what we see here is that, yes, it's, it's, it's changed,
but it's, there's, I mean, there's, it's so hard for me to imagine a context where we have this
development and this transmission of laws, which are basically identical with local variations.
That don't know about each other. It's a miracle. Right, right. And, and sure, divine inspiration.
Well, but, but what we see is that, yes, they are products of, of real good Israelite thinkers
who adapted and developed the law to fit their context, the way they thought about justice,
the way they thought about righteousness, the way they thought about things,
but doesn't mean that they didn't pick it up from other sources.
Well, well, that, that's a fantastic explanation for why we see this and it makes total sense to me.
How do you think, like, do you know of, of how people who maybe have this, like a fundamentalist,
like Ken Ham perspective, that the Bible is the imperfect, inherent Word of God, it came,
you know, it's, it's, it came from, like these, this drop from heaven in English, perhaps,
but it dropped from heaven in this perfect form. Like, how do you think people can rectify this?
Do they cry conspiracy, like they do with evolution, or do they, what do they do? Like,
how do, how does someone, or do they say, like, God, maybe God inspired these older texts, or
maybe the devil plant? I've heard that the devil plants fossils to confuse scientists so that we
reject the salvation of Jesus, but like, it happens all the time. Yeah. So like, how, how do
they get, how would, like, if you had to put your mind into a fundamentalist, how would you get
around this, like, knowing what you know? Oh, no, well, no, it's really easy, because you say that
this happened, and then everyone else has copied it. Oh, okay. So like, just reversing all evidence
that we have in the physical world, because all you have to do is say that it, it might not be
there, but we know that it's true. Right. And so, and this is, this is the way you deal with that
kind of evidence when you're in that. I mean, I would call it more apologetic than the fundamentalist,
because I know so many fundamentalists that don't think about these things at all.
That are just a part of the, the context that they're in, and that's what it is.
But it's the, it's the apologists that really get into the dirty details of it.
And, and I think there's something to be said for, for that understanding,
or that, that, I guess, that dichotomy, that, that difference between what, what I'm trying to say
and what they would say is that what I see is that when we have these things in existence,
a thousand, 1500 years before all the others, and long traditions of, of transmitting it,
long before Hebrew was even a language, like it's, it's, it's shocking that in through we have a,
a, a law or a series of laws that fit so well with what, what was there thousands of years before.
Unless we assume the opposite situation that these laws were important for the whole region,
for a long period of time. Oh, it, it makes perfect sense. So I actually, I, I'm not,
I don't have a ton of books. I'm like, I like to sit in front of blank walls and stuff. But
one book I bought that, that has like, literally been so important for me is this one. So I might
be mirror, I'm gonna be upside down, but it's called. Inventing God's law. Inventing God's law.
So it's a, it's a guy named David Wright, who has studied the, the laws in Exodus,
21 to 24, and seen that basically what we have is a very clear structure that follows
the laws of Hammurabi. Does he like to go to on this like? Yeah. Yeah. This is, this is such a good
book. Okay. I'll put it in the, in the chat there. People can, there's links. Yeah. Yeah. And he does,
he, he cites all the relevant literature and all the laws and what, what's really,
and I mean, what's great is that already in his introduction, he shows you that basically the
structure is like, if the Exodus follows Hammurabi, like here, here, here, here, and then there's
something that, that out of order, but then here, here, here, here, and then something out of order
and then here, here, here, here, here. And like, it's, it's not only that we have the laws are
similar, like if an ox kills somebody, it's okay. But if he kills a slave, you got to pay for it.
It's like, it's that the ordering of the laws from the, the code of Hammurabi, the laws of
Hammurabi also are this basically the same as this part of Exodus. So yeah, it'd be, it'd be a wild
miracle from baby Jesus if that, if that actually happened. Right. And, and so, and, and when these
things as, as literature that appears in the context of the real world, it's not difficult to talk about
because things exist and people are exposed to those things and that affects them and they make
new things based on that knowledge. It's, it's not difficult in a real world assessment of, of
literature. It's like Shakespeare. I mean, like Shakespeare obviously had read things. And there's
like, there's hundreds, there's thousands of books written on what made Shakespeare do what he did.
Right. But when you apply the same standards to the biblical literature,
what happens is that people say, surely they didn't use those sources.
And yeah, because ours is the perfect word of God, right? Right. And that's the difference,
is that you're applying a different standard to it.
Hmm. Well, something, I sent you a private chat message, if you could just have a look at that
while I shout out your channel. So your channel, you haven't done a huge amount on it recently,
because you've just been incredibly busy. But as you can see, this isn't, this is, by the way,
this isn't me watching, only getting like a little bit in and then stopping. This is, I think a lot
of this is me watching a second time. But the Bible was written backwards is an amazing,
this is an amazing channel. And if you're interested in anything that we talk about here,
go over and subscribe. Pragmatic Crystal put the link in the, in the chat just before.
So you can go check that out. As well, you have a website and you're doing some really cool stuff.
There's some awesome stuff that's coming out. You're super busy at the moment. Can you talk,
talk a little bit about what you're, what you're, what you're doing and what your plans are? Actually,
I was, I was saving the super chats for the end, but there's someone who,
Joshua Clark, elephant in the room, when are we getting more Bible monger bids?
Yeah. So, thank you. Good, good question. Good super chat.
Thank you. The million dollar question, I would say not the $10 question, but
no, it'll, it'll be along. So, I mean, I apologize to everyone out there who,
who would love to see more stuff, but I, I've been swamped. So I'm, it's just, so this week,
I'll talk about this week, I'm working on revising a chapter for a book.
That I should have submitted in May. And so I'm, I'm just, I'm that, I feel like I'm that far
behind. I'm working overtime to get, get stuff done. And so basically what, what's been going on
after Easter, I've been, I've been working on, I've been going to conferences. So I did two
big conferences this year. I was in the U S at Yale University for the, the North American Syriac
Society. So that is probably one of the most like niche places you can show up in scholarship. But
so Syriac is the, the language of the, the dialect of Aramaic that develops in Odessa in,
in Syria in the period of, yeah, so after Jesus, it's kind of like a development of Aramaic after,
after the time of Jesus. And it's a more or less a Christian dialect. But so one of the things that
I do is the reception history of biblical ideas and concepts that pass through Syriac texts.
And so one of the things then that I, that I, that I'm really interested in is names that are
given to women in, in literature, like that are in biblical literature. So there's so many women
in the Bible that aren't given names, right? And, and, and some of them are these in the first
chapters of Genesis where the names of the daughters of Adam and Eve and the wives of
like Seth and Enosh and Methuselah and Enoch and Noah and all of these guys, the wives are never
named. And the Bible just says, and, and like, and this is where this is like, I would say if there's
one reason why you should learn Hebrew, it's so that you can understand how random it is
the way these wives are not mentioned in the Bible. Because there's like in Hebrew,
you can, you can like make these weird constructions where you can make something happen without
being part of it. And, and that's like basically what happens in, in the birthing of, of these,
of these children, like, you know, that Adam makes Seth get born and Seth makes Enosh get born.
And, and like there, there is a way of, of removing the woman from the context. So anyway,
so I did this, I did a paper in at Yale on, on the names of the wives, I'm sorry, the names of
the daughters of Adam and Eve that are given in a Syriac text from, from the, like the end of the
fifth early sixth century. And then the way those get picked up in all these crazy weird contexts
in Bibles that are composed in, in, in, in French, English, Dutch, German, and even like,
like Old Norse and Icelandic and stuff like that. So I traced those. And that's one of the
things I really think is interesting, like the way people just continue developing stories.
And so that, and that's like part of what makes me so interested in the oldest stuff,
like all this Akkadian Sumerian and all that kind of stuff, is that it makes so much sense
to just continue the line of thinking. Yeah. Yeah. It's like, it's like people are rooted
in their culture and the ideas that surround them, which actually I've got a, I've got a
provocative question for you. That's very off topic, but it's not very off topic. It's a little
off topic, but I want to get your thoughts on it at this level of, of intoxication.
Thank you again for the stupid chat, Joshua. But before I do that, I just want to quickly,
before I forget, because I'm going to forget, I guarantee, I mentioned the upcoming guests
we have on Deep Drinks, which is really cool, Nuri Khan, Neela 604 Atheist. But
a lot of people were confused. So I've been, I've been releasing some videos behind a
patron and membership that are just that our interviews that are not available to everyone.
So I just wanted to explain them quickly. So I've got these two little clips, the origins of
Judaism and Jesus within Judaism. They're like 30 minutes song and 18 minutes song. They're part
of a long interview I recorded with Dr. Kip Davis. They're just raw behind the scenes interviews
that if you want to see, you can join the patron or become a channel member. It's also on, let me
share this, having said, it's also channel videos down here. If you want to, any tier will get you
access. I'm releasing them now, but they will eventually be a full part of a full documentary
that I will be will be available to everyone. So I just wanted to make that known that like Deep
Drinks isn't going like paid a paid service or anything like that. It's just behind the scenes
interviews. But if you want to check them out during the patron and or become a channel member.
So the provocative question. What do you think of Greek mimesis in the Gospels?
Oh, so I'm, that's a really good question. And it's, I would say it's a natural continuation
of what I do. Okay. In my, I mean, the problem is when I'm a, I don't know, a quarter of a
way into a leader of Jameson, as it looks like. Yeah, like, sorry, but like to show you like that,
that's like, that's your slacking. Look at mine. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. Okay.
Oh, come on, Deep Drinks. Wait, hang on. How full is your glass?
Okay. All right. Well, I've got, I've got like a little,
yeah, you're slacking. Come on now. Okay. I'll get some. All right. I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll do this
a lot, man. I am from the South. I mean, I've been working, I seriously like five or six weeks.
I've been thinking about this day. I've been building up to it. Well, I hope I don't disappoint.
That's like, that's, that's, come on. I still feel like I've got you. Yeah, you've got me. Yeah,
okay. All right. Anyway, but so, so in like, within, within the next year or two, I'm, I'm,
I'm, I hope to finish a book that I'm working on, which, which is also the name of my channel,
which is the Bible is written backwards. So that's, that's what I'm working on as, or one of the
things I'm working on. And, and the natural continuation of the, of what I've been doing
is that the second half of that book is the mimesis or is the New Testament
that's also receiving the earlier traditions. So we start with, we start with the stuff where the,
the Old Testament is clearly reinventing, rewriting, re receiving older ideas and making them their own.
And, and for me, that is just obvious, right. And I think that's pretty much the consensus
in scholarship, except in the evangelical fundamentalist communities.
Yeah, but they also believe you have success in the assault. So what are you gonna do?
So what are you gonna do? But so, and, and when you then keep working your way forward, what you see
is that there is no question that the New Testament is receiving the Old Testament
and rewriting and redefining it. But then when you, when you weave in the Greek material,
then that's when it all makes sense. Yeah, and it gets, yeah, you know, we had Dr. Dennis
McDonald on the channel, and he said, you know, what did he say? Brain work. It's, he said,
the elite in the Odyssey, play to know who Homer is, Homer was home. There's a quote. It's like,
Homer is, is the air the Greeks breathed. It was like, it was like so part of their culture.
Yeah. I think that, I think that if you were to look at Dennis McDonald's work,
especially like, if you're to look at some of like, the analogies that he draws in his book,
The Snopsist of Epic, and you look at like, you know, the story of like the fishermen,
or the Sea of Galilee, like all that stuff, you can very, there's a very good case to be made.
I think he makes a good case for that. They're, they're literally just like, they're not real
stories. They're kind of, or they're, they're, they're maybe, you know, parts of the Gospels
were complete adaptations from these Greek epics. However, I think that even if that doesn't get
across the board, I think that's what's undeniable is this kind of idea that, well, it just, it just
seems to make sense that if the, oh, Kip, Kip's in the chat. We're very drunk. Show him the bottle.
You got to show him the bottle of how much you've had. But the, the idea is that we,
you know, they were so rooted in Greek thought. Oh no. No, no, no, no. I hope you're not sick,
man. I hope you're okay. But the, the, you're rooted in Greek thought and Greek ideas that,
like, parts just get pushed into it, which, you know, for me, I honestly, and I don't know how
you feel about this, but when I deconstructed my faith and I started looking at these religious
texts as like, you know, humanity's earliest attempts to try and understand the cosmos,
to try and piece together society, to try and tell stories that, that, that brought people together,
that, that, you know, it became incredibly beautiful and it made so much more sense. Like,
when you look at, when you look at Genesis, like you're saying as, you know, it's either a polemic
or, or not just a polemic, but like a, like a retelling of the story of like a, of being rooted
in that civilization, it makes sense. And it makes sense why, you know, like we're saying the Buddha,
you know, has reincarnation. It makes sense. Like, it all just makes sense, but it's also kind of this,
like, it is, it, it is, uh, I guess it is, like, I'm being honest, like, it's a, there's a hint of,
is it not, it's not patronizing, but it's like, it's like looking, not looking down on, but like,
I guess what we're talking about before, about like looking at old cultures, like, oh, how cute and how
how small their world was, they thought, you know, stars were certain things. And now we can see,
you know, billions of years away. But there's, there's a bit of that where it's like, it's,
it's kind of beautiful. It's like, it's like humanity's first steps at trying to like,
organize civilization to try and build, you know, build this, this cause, this cosmology to,
to understand their place and purpose in the universe. And when you look at it like that,
and you talked about this before, and maybe we could, we could touch it again, but like, looking at
the difference between literature and like, holy texts, like, spawned down from above, you know,
like, it's just, it's just that difference. Yeah. Well, and that's what I think is like the,
I don't know, it's the most shocking change for me,
is that when you look at things from a, I don't know, I don't want to call it scientific perspective,
but at least from a, from a, from a rigorous, I don't know, objective, scientific might be the
best, I don't know, I don't know what the best word is at this point, naturalistic or like a,
but just at a, at a real lie. I mean, if you, if you look at things from a literary perspective,
let's, let's just talk about, okay, let's talk about what I know. So what, what I see is that
there is, it's just when you work with any kind of literature,
and you talk about what the way things are and the way things affect each other.
And if you, especially if you apply modern sociological perspectives on things,
there is, there is just so much to be gained in comparison to a, like a,
let's, let's hope that the wind is blowing the right direction, theological perspective.
There's just, it's just so shocking that, that what we, we would think would be right,
would be to say, we have one correct interpretation, and we have to try and find ways to defend it.
Yeah, it's a cup for the horse kind of thing.
Exactly. And, and so when we, when we look at things as we do with any kind of literature,
and we say, why would a later text look very much like an earlier text?
It's just, it's very easy when you're into the history of literature. It's very hard when
you're into Christian theology. And so it's just like, for me, there's so much to be said for,
for rethinking what is, what is valuable, what is defining the perspectives that we choose.
And, and again, it's like, it goes back to what we talked about earlier, that like,
of course, people who are told that if you don't choose God, you're going to hell,
then you can't, you can't choose, you can't choose to reflect on the comparisons and the,
and the results of actual detailed historical analyses done by professional scholars.
And so you're stuck. But, but what I think is really important is that we, we take time to think
like, what, what is the value of what we do? And so for me as a scholar, it's so important
that, that when we read things, that we're able to say that like, the
the end game isn't to change or ruin anybody's life. Like, all I'm interested in is like, what,
what's there? Like, I don't, I don't know, like, I'm, I'm interested.
Yeah, yeah, it's like a, it's like a, yeah, it's like a, it's like a, it's like a
intellectual pursuit rather than a defense or like getting on your back feet.
Yeah, it's very true. Because I, like, I think this is something that that does get lost in
a lot of what we talk about. That I honestly think that when things change, when we get new,
when we get new information, I want to learn it. I want to take that in and make that adapt my
adapt, make me adapt to the new information. Like, and that's the, like, I, I, so I mean,
personally, I don't think what we do in the humanities is exactly the same as what natural
sciences do. So I wish, like, I have a really good friend, he's Australian. He's, is it me?
No, well, you are, you are Australian. I have another really good friend who's Australian.
Okay, I was born there. Oh, good. And, and he, so he lives in Warrindyte, like up,
well, I don't know that area. So it's just, yeah, kind of up the, up the Yarra River. And, and so
he lived in Norway for a couple years and was, was our neighbor. So he, like, we split a house. He,
we live downstairs and they live downstairs. And so we got to know them really, really well. And he's
he's a fish in fish. He's a geneticist, but he works with fish genetics. And, and like the, the
research he does can change, like, whether you feed 100 or 100,000 people. Right. And, and it's,
and so he's like, it's in my later life has been such a role model because he really does
make a difference. Like, I feel like there's so much to be learned from the hard sciences that
actually do things where we like in literature kind of say things. Yeah. But, but at the same time,
so what I'm, what I'm saying is that we, it, it is meaningful to, to really reflect on what we
have available as evidence. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I agree, Matthew, Dr. Matthew Munger, like, like I'm
something. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, you have peer support, peer support. Oh, God, I can't even
speak. You mentioned something before about, about hell and like, you know, the idea of hell.
We talked last time about the eternal soul and, and everything like that. And about how, like,
the Bible doesn't seem to have an eternal soul in the Old Testament. Sorry. And the Old Testament
doesn't have an eternal soul. And those, those, those ideas developed. And of course, you're,
I'm sure your second book will go into where the idea of, you know, afterlife came from.
Especially if you're like looking at mimesis. But one thing I wanted to kind of like touch on
is, is maybe the idea of hell, like maybe the idea of an afterlife. So you talked about how the
Mesopotamian texts were talking, they're talking about death that they're trying to not only talking
about death, but they're trying to explain death in the, like, in the epic Gilgamesh and, or maybe
the enumeration, I can't remember. This was an hour and a half ago now. But, but many, many whiskies
later. But, um, yeah, can you talk a little bit about like how the idea of death and dealing with
death and sheol and then eventually hell kind of develops over time?
That's, that's a lot. That's a lot to ask at this point in the show.
Well, what, what, what, what I will say, well, maybe we can simplify it because what I will say
is for, for me, um, I'm writing, well, I'm putting together a little piece of content.
It's not nothing huge, but I'm putting together something that I want, that I wish I had when
I was deconstructing my faith questions, posing questions. And one of them, and a big chunk of
that is about hell. Um, yes. And, uh, and, and, and the thing that I'm finding, and you can see
like hints of what I'm kind of getting at with my questions, uh, if you subscribe to Deep Drinks,
you can see like I post a lot of stuff. And it's, it's how do people overcome the fear of hell?
And the big thing that people come back to me with is, um, is realizing the historical context
of where the idea of hell developed. Uh, so you don't need to give us the, uh, I mean, you don't
need to like recite, uh, Dr. Bartowman's book, um, now that this, this whiskey, this much whiskey down,
but, um, how did the, you know, in regards to like how things develop, how do you think the
idea of the afterlife developed? Oh, well, I mean, it's, so if, if I can take a different route into
it. Yeah. Um, we're like at this stage, we're like four driving and you're just pointing to a point.
And I'm, yeah. So, so what I'm, I mean, there's no, there, it's not difficult at all to understand
that we question what happens to us when we're dead. This is a, I think this is probably one of the
oldest questions of humanity. What, like we're here and then we're not. And then the other
people that are left behind look at our bodies and say, you look the same for a little bit
and then you disappear. So there's this weird connection between the body and,
and temporality, like the time. And so I really, I really think that part of what is,
I think, yeah, really what's, what's part of what we're thinking about eternity has to do
with that question of where do we go? And, and so, so now I'm speaking kind of more of as
historian of religions. So we're, we're, we're asking that question of what happens to people
when they're gone. And, and Christianity has a kind of a form that you fill out. Like you, you,
you take off if you, if you believed and maybe if you've done the right things.
Yeah. Like, we're not sure exactly what you need to take off for. That's why we keep pretending.
So many Christians are scared of like, they're not going to make the cut.
Right. You're scared and, and I've been there. Like I, so this is, this is one of the things that
also like made such a difference in my life was understanding that. So my wife, my wife is Norwegian
and she, she grew up with a very different understanding of what would ruin your life.
Like would, would damn you to hell, as we say. And then what I did, like I thought taking
somebody's batteries out of their, their disc man was a sin, you know, like that was my understanding,
you know, whereas she was more like murder someone, you know. And so there was this, this
massive gap between what was actually bad, even though we agreed that you probably shouldn't do it.
But like, and that made, it was such a big, like, yeah, it was such a big thing for me
to realize that, that everybody thinks differently about where the lines are between
what is okay, and what is not so great, and what is you're going to burn for eternity, man.
And, and so when we, when we look at the development of hell, we, like what's, what's really
interesting is that hell is not a Jewish concept. That's a Christian's concept.
Sorry. So yeah, we're stuck with eternity and hell because we're Christians, that doesn't make
sense, does it? And, and so if we, if we look at the development also of what hell is,
like when we look at the biblical record, so my, my reading of the biblical record is that
hell is death.
You're dead in the New Testament. You think it's just like,
I think there's very little evidence for the New Testament conceptualizing hell as being
anything other than if for, for individuals that hell is anything other than
you're not with God. And, and I mean, if we look at the biblical record as well, I mean heaven
is singing God's praises for eternity. I don't have a great, I don't have a great singing voice.
The difference, the difference between heaven and hell doesn't sound that.
There's a very, well, yeah, but, but the, for me, I think the, the, the basic problem is,
is the question of whether we, we think that hell is
eternity suffering, which the current Christian fundamentalist, evangelical understanding what
hell is, or whether we think of hell as the end. And that's the basic difference for me between
the Jewish and the, and the current Christian fundamentalist understanding of hell is.
And so for part of me, the part of me that grew up in the more evangelical side, I say,
I don't want to be burned and tortured and suffer for all eternity. I don't want that.
But then the part of me that's more scholarly that says like, wait, what did the text actually say?
It's like, oh, you're dead. You're gone. See ya. It's like, what is that? And that's only the text.
And then, yeah. It's weird to like the, the, the version of hell that I believed in,
like heaven and hell that I believed in was like that, that you would die if you repented,
you were good, good and go to heaven. But if you sinned between the time you repented,
and you would go to hell, and which, which kind of leaves you in this situation where like, you
know, Ted Bundy killed and ate all those people who was in homosexual relationships with, and I
believed homosexuality was a sin. And at the time, and so like, you know, and he repented at
the end of his life in prison. So it's like, so Ted Bundy's in heaven and all those like innocent
gay men are like in hell. Like that was like, like, I would have struck my shoulders and gone like,
yeah, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's how serious this gospel is this, you need to take
this seriously. But when I look at it now, I go, that's kind of disgusting. Like,
it's ridiculous. Yeah. And, and that's,
but what's, what's super cool about what you just said is that what you're doing is that you're
applying texts that you think about from the past to your own context. And, and again, it's,
and that's what we do. Like we try to think like, what makes sense to me
about these ancient things. And, and I think that that is what is happening really throughout
history. That every time these things get brought up, we're thinking, how do we fit into that?
How do we make sense? Is that story? It's that like, everyone's, everyone's the like,
lead character in their own story kind of. And then if we expand that to say that our people
is the lead in that story. Right. And so like, I mean, the, the, the amazing thing that, that,
that happens in Christianity is that Paul just happens to be both Christian and
Roman. And so let me expand this great thing that I think is true to everyone.
I mean, I, and that goes back to the, the Greek mimesis criticism that you're talking about,
because I really believe that the Greek education, the Greek sociology, the Greek
psyche of what we're talking about is so important for understanding why there's a tradition
that is pretty much exclusive to Israel.
Pretty much. Sorry. It's super exclusive. That's, that's the quarter third bottle of
James. That's a lot. I have your, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll message your, I'll find your
partner on Facebook or something and I'll be like, send help. He needs water and hydrolyte. I actually,
um, so. Yeah, good. No, no, go. What we're saying. No, but I just think like it's so incredibly
interesting that, that what we, what we do is, is make these ideas of what is
okay and, and then we kind of block out all the other stuff.
So, so when, when we get to the New Testament and this is what, like,
I mean, I don't, I don't think I started off going in this direction, but it's so interesting to me
because one of the professors at my university has been, has spent a lot of time
debating Dennis McDonald on his mimesis criticism and that kind of stuff. And, and it's so interesting
to think that when we get to the question of, of Jesus, that's where the question is,
it's important. Yeah, because it's like, you're, you're, you're begging the, you're,
okay, so I, I have a little story. I had a, I had a friend who is, I have, I have a friend who's a
Jehovah's Witness and I said, why are you Jehovah's Witness? And I said, I was looking at the evidence
for God and I decided that I need to believe in a religion that didn't have Christmas because that is,
and then explained why Christmas was wrong. And then, then looked at all of Christianity's and
then decided Jehovah's Witnesses was right. And I'm like, well, hang on. You can't have already
using Jehovah's Witness, like, ideas in the rejection of Christmas before you've even started
analyzing. I was like, I feel like something else is going on here. I feel like, you know, I mean,
so it's like, it's like the same thing. It's like looking at Jesus and going, well, here's the Son
of God. So let's, like, so, so this, this context and everything else we've been using for the
whole, like the Hebrew Bible and everything else, we can't use that here. We have to, we have to,
whoa, whoa, whoa, let's, let's be, let's get down as, as Jordan Peterson says, let's get down to
brass task and tax when someone asks him a simple question, like, do you believe in God? And he says
it takes him three days to answer. Yeah, it's like, let's get down to, like, that's what happens,
let's get down to brass tax. Like, you know, it's, I'm not saying that's what the professor's doing,
but yeah. Yeah, no, I, I think, I think you're spot on. Because what, what we, what we end up doing
is trying to find a way to define what we're talking about as something else,
and not as a random written text from antiquity. And, and, and that's, I think that's like, that's
literally what I'm trying to get a core, a core loss, losing my addiction here. So, well, I mean,
when we talk about things as literature, it's not that complicated, because nobody cares.
But the moment we say, you're going to burn in hell, man, because of the literature I'm talking
about, we have a problem. Yeah, then, then all of a sudden things get more complicated.
Exactly. And so it's just like, having spent so much time talking to other historians in religion,
that know that there are billions of people that think that their way of thinking about things
are right. And then we end up with like, you look at it from the other side, and you're like,
ooh, maybe we over-evaluated our position, you know? Yeah. It's like the, you know, you see,
I used to always, I used to always think, you know, you know, the reason I know my God is real
is because I experience the power of God falling over in this person. But then I started thinking,
like, well, like, what about like the Beatles? Like, you see all the, like, old black and white
footage of, like, girls passing out when I see the Beatles and stuff. You know, and it's just like,
you know, all like, you know, my wife has said, like, every time she'd go to see a musical,
she'd have the exact same feelings she'd have at church. This overwhelming, like, feeling of, like,
excitement and awe and, you know, whatever it was. I think me and your wife would get along.
Are you a musical person?
So I, I grew up going to musicals. Like, I was taken to see cats.
Yeah, that's my first musical. When I was really, really young. And so musical theater was like,
this thing that was just a part of my childhood. Yeah.
And yeah, go on.
My wife, when she was on, like, government benefits, like Centrelink, it's called here.
And it was like, not much. Like, I'm talking like, I'm like, you might have like,
30 or $40 spare fortnight on to buy, like, you know, people would buy like cigarettes or whatever,
Amy didn't smoke or like, you know, you were just getting by. She would save all her money
for ages. And then she would fly her herself and her friend down to Sydney to see, to see,
to see Wicked. And that's what she would spend all her money on. Like, I'm talking like,
she didn't have like $2 to her name. And she did this six times over the course of like,
five years or something, like six times she flew to Sydney to see Wicked. And then she's since seen
it, since it's come up to Brisbane, another like five or six times. And then, you know, like,
she's seen it 12 times, I think. I'm so happy to hear that.
We've seen the Book of Mormon twice. She's seen the Lion King. She gets like every,
like, I say to her like, I'll come once, but I'm not going to come like multiple times.
Like, I'm not a musical guy, but like, I've slowly got into it, but she's just obsessed.
Literally, my best friends in the world are musical theater people.
Okay. Who have been in the biggest productions in Europe. And oh, wow.
Like my, my, my best friend is the guy who does, who, or who used to lead like Mamma Mia and the
biggest music throughout the world tours. So yeah. So totally.
You know, when I wake, we're totally off track now, and I apologize.
But like, I remember watching, I remember watching, so I used to have like a really bad
anxiety disorder, like a panic disorder. Actually, it was an actual panic disorder and
OCD and things like that. But, oh man, I remember going to see Lion King and
and have you seen the Lion King musical?
Yes. Have you seen it? Yeah. So, yeah, yeah. So I'm sitting there and we're about to start.
And I'm like, I'm like all happy. And then it starts and immediately the biggest panic attack
of my life just comes on for some reason. And everything that was happening on stage,
all I could think about like was, Oh no, what if one of those people fall over? Oh no,
like what if they're going to drop Simba when he like they hold him up? And I'm having like the
big like it felt like I was looking into the gates of hell. Like I that's how like I was
but like on the outside, I look like this. I'm so sorry. I just look like I just look like really
happy and like fine. But on the inside, I was like, ah, ah, ah, and I actually got up and left
because like the panic attack was so bad. I went to the bathroom quickly. Oh my god, I'm so sorry.
And and and the the they were like, we're looking for you. We couldn't find you. I was like,
I was hiding in the bathroom. And like, you know, halfway, like when the intermission came,
I said to the person next to me, like, I'm so sorry, I had to get up and then she's like,
what? Like I got up in the middle and she's like, she didn't even remember. But like in my mind,
it was like this big thing. But yeah, like it was for a while there, like that weird panic attack
that I had in the middle of this like theater where I thought literally I was going to throw up
or like be like, I was so anxious, like spark this second, like I started like when I would go
to the Simmons, like, I would be like, oh, no, like as soon as it would start, I'd have a panic
attack. I got over that. But like, it was a while there where like musicals and everything like
the idea of like being stuck in like knowing that I could ruin the performance if I like
had to get out of there for some reason, like I all of a sudden decide all of a sudden realize
that I needed to like leave or like, and I would ruin everyone's time, like just made me panic so
bad. It was so weird. Anyway, I think we're going, I think my anecdotes have gone way off the track.
We got some really interesting super chats. We got one big super chat from Heng-Far-Shi. He's
actually, they're actually left. I don't know if they're he or she, sorry, but they've actually
left. But they will watch it in the future, I'm sure. They said, Jay Campbell wrote that in India
and Eon is 4,320,000. Then say Valhalla has 540 doors that 800 in HR charge from 540 times 800
equals 3,400, oh my gosh, 43,000, wait, 4,320,000, oh my gosh, 43,000, no, what?
432,000, sorry, oh my gosh. Barossus apparently counting 432,000 years, by the way, the first king,
by the way, the first king and the flood thoughts. So I didn't know what that meant. So I said,
can you explain? And they said, yeah, sorry, the characteristics suck. But basically, Campbell
seems to be positing that this math being laced through such radically different mythological
systems such as Norse and Hindu. And Mesopotamia might be related to astronomical observations.
And so I was wondering Dr. Monga's thoughts on the mathematical expression being present in these
systems. Yeah. And my answer is I don't know. I think that there are multiple possibilities. So
the one thing is that there might be an astrological mathematical representation error here. And if
the case is that there is some kind of cyclical event that they are representing,
that's fine. But what I think is more likely the case is that we're just kind of connecting random
random numbers. Yeah, it's like the Bible code or whatever as well, right?
Yeah. So I don't think there is anything to it. But I mean, at the end of the day,
like in 4,332,000 years, then maybe I will be. Yeah. So okay. So Matt, I look, I just taught
a glimpse of what we look like. So normally, so someone in the comments, Fasi said, they're
going to have a laugh when they rewatch this and listen to this part. I looked at our faces and
like heard how we were talking just a second ago, and I'm drunk, but I can tell how drunk we are.
So I'm going to like slowly wrap up this conversation. We need to go off. Yeah, we need to,
I need to go to bed. It's 4 a.m. for me. Oh, man. Okay. Yeah. So like the tiredness is kicking in
as well. But like yesterday, I went to bed at 5 a.m. because it was video editing. But is there,
so going back to, going back to, we're going to have to have to finish off this bottle another
time. But to go back to the Sumerian, Akkadian, oh my gosh, babe, be careful. Like I feel like
drink water. Geez, like, oh, no, I'm going to go, man. Okay, cool. Cool. So is there anything else,
like any like large standout things from like your numerous, I mean, of course there is,
and everyone needs to go check out some your YouTube channel, the bar written backwards,
linked in the description to see that. But is there anything else you want to mention before
we kind of like wrap up this conversation? Well, I think like, I mean, we, we didn't get to the
really stuff that I haven't talked about on, on stuff like that. But no worries. We'll,
we'll just leave this as kind of like a, you know, maybe someday, someday I'll do something
about it. Yeah. So like one of the things that's really cool for me is that it's not just the first
11 chapters of Genesis. So we're not just talking about creation. We're not not just talking about
Noah, but we're also talking about Psalms. Like there are Psalms that are so clearly reliant on
Canaanite religion that are older, like texts we have before Hebrew. And, and on like the book of Job,
the book of Job, which is this discussion between Job and his friends about whether or not he is
like worthy or okay, despite the horrible things that happened to him.
Like we have a text called the Babylonian Theodicy, which this mirrors in so many ways.
And so there's so many things that are, are so important to like understand that it's not just
a, like a dart into the randomness of the text. But we're talking about so many things that reflect
ancient Babylonian understandings of reality, of literature. And, and they show up again and again
and every genre and every different thing that we, that we have. And so the Psalms are there,
the Proverbs are there, the, the, the wisdom literature is there, like everything is there.
And so it's like, it's just, it's not like we're saying, hey, flood, we're all good.
And that's it. Yeah, yeah. It is just, it's, it's a, it's a very clear pattern. And I think it's
important that we're not focused on that there's just like one good example and everybody's done.
But well, when I did my research, research, like vaccine research now, like googling on the toilet,
that's what like, sorry. But, but like, so, so like we got the code of Hammurabi, the hymns of
Aten, the instructions of, and then Mope, the, oh my gosh, the, you know, everything in the
primary legal history, the enumerations, the flood narratives. Are there any other major things,
like someone wanted to go look up things besides the stuff that I just mentioned and probably
said wrong? Is there any other things that people could look up?
No. So I would just say start there. Okay. Like, again, like, let's, let's circle back to where
we were, like read slowly. Like read the texts and not your own expectations. Yeah. Okay.
And think about what it means that older texts literally are saying the same thing.
Yeah. So first, it's like first approach them, approach them, like, literally, like textually,
look at them, just look at them, don't like, go into them within bias, and then work out that,
like work out the theological, philosophical, psychological things later.
Yeah, definitely. Okay.
Well, Dr. Mahemonga, it's been amazing to have you on. It's been an absolute pleasure. Of course,
if you subscribe to Deep Drinks, you will make it to heaven. That's a guarantee.
We have Neela604Atheist coming on to tell his creation story. We have Nuri Khan coming on to
talk about Islam apologetics. I put this dude, Daniel, in here because when they had a debate
together, he blurred her face. And I was like, you know what, you're a piece of shit. And then we
have Dr. Josh, of course, coming on, which will be awesome. And we have a few more awesome guests
happening in the panel coming up. The bar was written backwards, the best channel on YouTube.
Go check it out. If you haven't already, and keep pressuring Dr. Mahemonga to create some stuff,
he will eventually get there one day when he finishes his book or something. And of course,
if you want to support this channel, check out Patreon. You can see some behind the scenes stuff
here. And check out the book that was mentioned previously in the chat. And it's also on the
Deep Drinks list of books that I recommend now. So you can check that as well. All links are in
the description. And that this has been wonderful. I think, look, I'm sorry, Kip. I think this is
the drunkest the Deep Drinks has ever gotten. So I don't know, maybe we might have to try and
break that record. But this is definitely, this is, well, it's definitely up there. It's in the
top three of yourself, Kip, and Aaron Adair, when we drank Beju. So, you know, there's been a couple
of episodes. And by the way, it's not a, you know, it's not, I'm not an alcoholic. All right. It's not
the guest chooses the drink. Man, Kip was here in May. Oh, yeah. Can you actually, we're not going
to end now. I just want to, can you tell us about your adventures together in Norton in Norway?
I mean, Kip, Kip is, is the, I mean, I've said this before, but Kip is the only person I like.
And so, like, we, we, like, we, no, but we, we, like, we had this amazing day where Kip was here.
And we went out and I'm serious, like, I think we drank like five bottles of wine
and a bottle of whiskey. Like, we were so wasted. But me and Kip had such a good time as well. So,
like, Kip. Yeah, I remember, I remember sending Kip something and he said, I'm with Matt Munger,
and I was like, what are you doing? He said, he said, drinking. And he sent a photo of you guys,
like at like some bars or like some kind of cafe or something. I can't remember what it was. Yeah.
No, we, we lost track at that point. But, but no, so like, I mean,
yeah, no, Kip and I, Kip and I are your friends. So we, we do tend to drink
together. But, but the, um, yeah, I, so what I think is, is really important is that we
were interested in being able to, what's up? I just poured whiskey all over my,
my keyboard. So it might stop working, but anyway, no, but I mean, I think,
I think there's just something, something really great about being able to let go and talk about
the things that are, and, uh, when, when Kip's around, we, we have a really good time.
And we, we talk about things that are important to us and that's made a big difference in my life.
And, and I think me and Kip have a, have a way of thinking about reality that is,
yeah, is important. And so we've, we've definitely learned a lot, or I've learned a lot from him.
And yeah, so he was here, I don't know, it's been, it's been almost two months now, but we,
yeah, we had a really good time and, and there's something about being able to meet people that,
that, that are that knowledgeable about the, the literature that we're interested in. And,
and then also being able to say, Hey, it's not going to make me suffer forever in hell
to think about it in a different way. Yeah. It's like getting rid of that stigma.
Yep. There is, there is my psychologist, because I call it the pudding club where I post on Twitter,
like my, when I'm depressed, I'll, I'll like hide myself away in a dark room and like eat spaghetti
and like lying bed all day. And I need that. I need, I need time to stay useless. But what he,
I'll say, I'll call it that needing time to stay useless. But my, but my psychologist will say,
um, it's, it's, uh, relaying responsibility. It's like, it's like, you need time to just let go.
And, um, sometimes like, I'll need that by myself. Sometimes I'll need that with my friends,
but it's so important to have those people in your life where you can just be stupid and,
or not even stupid, but like, you don't need to put on any facades. You can just be yourself.
Exactly. Exactly. And, and not be afraid of being canceled or, or having expressed
scholarly positions that might get you into trouble or whatever. Like, but, but seriously,
like, let's, I mean, we can, we can, we can wrap up soon. David, I, I, I seriously appreciate your,
your channel so much because, because what you do is make people just get drunk.
Sometimes I don't make them get to a YouTuber and make them get drunk. And I know, I, I know what
you mean. I'm like, you encourage saying, instead of saying, I'm going to tell you what my last
article just said that people talk. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And like, that's, and that's where I grew up.
Like in Virginia, like in the South where people like, people just said whatever the,
whatever they wanted. Yeah. And it's just so different when you get into the world of academia
where you have to pretend all the time. So you do such a good job of asking people to say,
hey, drink with me, start saying stuff, we'll be good.
Well, I think, I think, I think I'm fucking amazing. I always tell, like, I really, no,
I don't, but there are, there are, there are, you know, everyone has like some sort of an ego
or whatever. But the one thing that, that, you know, for everything I do think of myself like,
like, oh, I've got a good understanding of this or good understanding about the one thing that
people do have continuity on is my ability to, like my, like wearing my heart on my sleeve.
I'll tell you how I feel. And I'm pretty honest and open. I'll like, there's not, I don't have
secrets, like I'm not very good at keeping secrets or it's actually something I've worked on.
I'm just very open and honest. And I think that kind of rubs off on people because,
and I was saying this on the other day that I'm, I'm like, I've got big brain but small brain,
like I'm, I'm good at kind of, I'm wanting to like know all this stuff, but I'm also a little
bit simple. I'm a little bit of a simpleton. So like when I bring on like experts like yourself,
I go like, oh, so what is a cadian? Like I bring it right back down to like,
so everyone can understand. And I think that's like my skill set in life is like,
is, is being real, I guess. And that's what I try to do anyway. So do you know what,
when I first started a YouTube channel, I didn't, I was trying not to be that person. I was trying
to be like the new Christopher Hitchens or something. And then I went on to fucking Tang,
a now called the flavor, and Jenna, fucking Jenna, by the way, I love Tang, love, love Jenna,
I love Oz, but she made up this fucking rumor that I could, that I wanted to rap battle Oz.
And I didn't, I can't rap, but the pressure of everyone there and stuff like I was, you know,
and I decided to at the end to try and rap battle. And all I said was out of, out of time,
out of key, out of everything was Tang gang, I'm here with Tang gang, hitting Queens a bitch.
That's, that's all, that's, that's pretty much all I said. And it was the most embarrassing,
I was embarrassed for three days. And I realized I was never going to be that person. I was never
going to be that, that like Christopher Hitchens. And then I'm kind of a quick, my psychologist
calls me quirky. So I like this. So, so yeah, I hope people can feel comfortable with me. And
that's what I try to bring to the show. I mean, as after you've said that, like,
there's nothing you've done today that was bad. Okay, good.
Well, okay, well, thank you, Professor Matthew Munger for coming on. It's been
absolutely awesome. I really appreciate it. And guys, check out the links in the description.
We have some amazing guests coming up. I think I've said that like five times now,
but we're ending the show. Love you guys. Talk later. Bye.
