Dear Deep Drinkers, today is a very exciting episode.
Adenhardt is a passionate advocate for trans rights,
the co-host of the Trans-Atlantic Calling Show,
and a powerful voice in the world of activism.
She's known for insightful discussions on identity,
deconstruction, and the intersection of skepticism
and transgender issues.
Her journey of self-discovery and acceptance,
coupled with her commitment to evidence-based dialogue,
makes her a truly inspiring figure.
Let's do this.
Welcome, Adenhardt.
Hello.
The trans-Atlantic Queen.
How are you doing?
Doing great.
I love the build-up.
Man, I think everyone's going to be real disappointed
with me actually here.
And I thank you so much.
I appreciate it.
I'm so excited to have you on.
But I have a very important first question for you.
Okay.
Obviously, as we start this show each time,
we talk about what drink we're drinking,
and you've chosen a very fun drink.
But usually, I'm drinking this at 8 a.m.
or sometimes 6 a.m.
Or sometimes, God forbid, I've done shots of vodka at 1 a.m.
Woken up for it and coffee at 2 a.m.
So right now, it's midday for me.
So I feel like, because we're into the PMs,
it feels so much better to drink.
Yeah.
First of all, first question.
Yeah, exactly.
The second question is, what are we drinking?
And then I want, yeah, first, what are we drinking?
So we're drinking margaritas today.
And I didn't have time to get proper margarita mixed.
So we're having like, it's sometimes called the redneck
margarita.
Sometimes the trailer park margarita.
I've got some El Himador and a Luminata San Pellegrino.
But I mean, it looks, it's got the right color, right?
It's probably like half tequila, so good enough for me.
Yeah, for sure.
So I've got, we had a party at my house.
I've got some tequila leftover and margarita mix.
That's what I'm having.
But what I wanted to ask you is, the drink sets the tone
of the interview.
And keep in mind, I can go for the rest of the day.
So I would like you, I don't have a shot glass.
I want you to tell me when to stop pouring the tequila part
of this tequila mix.
So that's the next guy.
Okay.
So what are you thinking?
Should I, should I, should I just start pouring it and,
and we go?
Or should you tell, like, should I?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, just pour.
I'll, I'll say a say when.
Okay, all right.
It's a, it's a, it's a big glass.
Oh, I can see.
Yep.
And right there.
Yeah.
Nice and halfway full.
Just how I like it.
Oh geez.
Okay.
So I don't know how many shots there was.
So I'll mix this together.
Or you can chug it.
I don't know.
I'm not your mom.
Yeah.
It is socially acceptable to date drink in Australia.
So, you know, it's, it's a, it's a badge of honor actually.
So, so yeah.
So first of all, I have to ask, what's your favorite reptile?
Favorite reptile over all, huh?
Well, I mean,
I mean, are we talking groups or you want like a specific species?
Well, you're like, I just know that you like everything you post at the
moment on, on Instagram and you've got so much like reptiles, right?
You got a reptile shows you saw Aaron rather.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I've got 60 snakes.
I don't remember the exact number to be honest.
Uh, 60 over 60.
Yeah.
60 something.
There's 40 and one and then there's another one of 10 and then there's
one of four.
And then there's another four down in the, in the living room.
Um, so we, we breathe snakes.
Why?
Uh,
And then we have, uh, three bearded dragons.
I have a Euro mastic right here, but it's nighttime.
So he's asleep.
Um, and then I have, uh, four, five, six crested geckos right now.
So we have a lot, but that's, that's amazing.
So that's amazing.
I went to a friend's house recently and they had a snake and, um,
and I didn't think I was scared of snakes.
And then I was like, can I hold it?
And then when they went to give it to me, I was like, ah, ah, ah,
like I'm frozen up and I held it, but I was like, oh my God,
I'm holding a snake.
But, um, yeah, like that experience met.
I was like, maybe I should get into snakes and then seeing everything
you and Aaron Rara putting on online and like everything you guys have.
So I'm like, maybe I should get into snakes.
I like snakes.
They start awesome.
And y'all have in Australia, cause you have the,
the exporting laws for your wildlife.
Um, you actually have a lot of snakes that I would love to be able to get,
but I can't.
So I'm a huge fan of what's, sorry, sorry, go ahead.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I was going to ask what snakes like I'll look at them up.
Sure.
So, um, the, uh, Aspidides, uh, uh, genus, uh,
in Australia is like the Wilma Python or the black headed Python.
So Aspidides Ramzii or Aspidides melanocephalus.
Um, those are two amazing.
Uh, we have, so Wilma's are a little bit more bitey.
Um, the black heads melanocephalus are slightly less bitey,
but they're a lot larger.
We have a Wilma who's in, in absolute insane lunatic.
She's a big jerk, but we love her anyway.
Uh, and then we have, yes, this is melanocephalus.
They get a little bit bigger, but in Australia,
y'all have, uh, some morphs of as of pretty much everything,
uh, like bearded dragons, Fagonas, um, uh,
the carpet pythons and like children's pythons and things like this that,
um, we have here, but we only have the lineages of the ones that were exported
before y'all introduced to those really intense laws.
So you guys have bred there since you have access to the native populations.
So many different morphs of all those things that we can't access anymore.
Um, so you can get a lot of really cool stuff in Australia that people here in
the States would never be able to get.
Uh, so yeah, definitely anything in the Aspidides family would probably be,
uh, or genus would be a really cool.
I would love to see what kind of other morphs you guys have there.
So there's, uh, yeah, we, so we, we live, um, you know, Australia zoo,
um, like Steve Irwin really likes the crocodile hunter.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So he, him and, um, and, and Bindi and, um, and, um, oh my gosh.
Um, is it Robert?
Yeah, Robert Irwin.
Yeah.
They all like live like down the road and my, we,
our roommates used to work there and stuff.
So it was really cool.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's, uh, it's, it's good fun.
But, um, the last time I saw a snake in the wild was about,
you know, a year and a half ago and I was walking with my dog in the new,
like summer around here and we hopped over this like bunch of shrubbery.
And then there was a black snake just standing up.
Like, like, like, we kind of surprised it.
And my dog didn't see it and I had like jumped one way.
My dog went the other way and he thought it was like a game.
So he ran off into the bush and I like, just like having fun.
Like I'm running the other way and I'm a trip over.
I spray my ankle.
So I'm like hobbling and I'm like, and then I talk to my friend and he's like,
he's like, man, like they don't, cause I know that some snakes,
like they'll chase them.
They'll chase you.
Like in Australia, they'll chase you and they'll kill you.
Like, they're really aggressive.
Or maybe you're correct me if I'm wrong because I don't do nothing about this.
Yeah.
There's not really many snakes, if any, that will chase you down.
Um, if they, yeah, if they think that you are coming for them,
they will pick a fight with you.
But, uh, basically the rule of thumb when it comes to venomous, dangerous snakes.
I mean, and if you're afraid of, and you're just assuming, you know,
you're not familiar with the local species or whatever.
The rule of thumb is just don't fuck with it.
Leave it alone.
Sorry.
I don't want to swear away.
Yeah.
Don't, don't fuck with it.
Um, like the snakes are always going to be defensive, not offensive.
So if you don't fuck with that, it won't fuck with you.
Just if you see it, no, you didn't go the other way.
Uh, and you, everything will be cool.
Um, even like the really, really big scary snakes that you like,
like, uh, um, reticulated pythons and, uh, Burmese pythons and things like that.
They're, I mean, they're not aggressive at all.
Uh, those are big, giant teddy bears is what they are.
But, uh, the, uh, even like the really scary ones that y'all have in Australia,
they, they're generally not going to be offensive and going for you.
They're going to, if they attack you, it's because they think you're going for them
and they feel threatened.
I love that you're, cause you are, you're educating me cause like,
like I said, I was like, I've heard some snakes chase you.
And so that's why I was like, I freaked out and jumped, jumped and sprained my ankle and all that stuff.
And what's worse is because I jumped, I was like making sudden movements.
That's, that's definitely, like, I just, everything was wrong.
Like, and I was worried that my dog was going to get into a fight with it.
And I'm like, bye dog.
So like, but it ended up being fine.
But, um, but yeah, like, uh, yeah, thank you for educating me because yeah,
it's, um, most snakes, like this is what Steve Irwin,
he was always like, they're, they're fine.
You just don't, um, you know, don't mess with them.
Um, like don't like corner them and like start hitting with a stick or anything like that.
Right.
Um, even though you're just waving your hand can think,
make them think you're an aggressor.
That's actually like a way to like hypnotize, um, uh, uh,
Oh, why am I blanking?
Like copras, you know, hooded copras.
Uh, that's like, do like a lot of this moot motion cause it kind of brings their focus on you.
And then you can like get them from behind or something like that.
So is that like, um, is that like what snake charmers and stuff do?
I don't know anything about this law, but like, yeah,
I don't know exactly what snake charmers do.
I'm not super educated on what like their specific tactics are,
but there are definitely ways you can like, uh, um,
like manipulate snakes behavior.
Um, you know, the, the, the nice benefit we have over reptiles is a nice prefrontal
cortex to, uh, plan our movements and actions and ways that they can't do.
So, uh,
I love that.
Um, I'm the, like on the Australian and you're telling like,
it's just a bad Australian, bad Australian.
But, um, we normally read out super chats at the end,
but I have to read out Dr. Ben, who's the favorite, uh, T-A-C-I-S host.
And why is it Ben?
Uh, you've got so much love here.
Um, Jimmy snow, uh, he's too sick to fuck himself.
He's afraid.
Yeah, I know.
Poor guy.
The best reptiles are scarring dragons.
Um, but yeah, you got the, the crew from the line of court, uh,
which is really nice to see.
I love that.
Yeah.
So I, I have to ask the question though is why is Ben your favorite, uh, co-host?
No, I think Ben's my favorite co-host because he's a great punching bag.
No, just kidding.
I love it.
I know we, we pick on each other really hard over on transatlantic.
It's kind of like a love language that Katie and I both had.
And so it just kind of has dominated our show.
And whether it applies to Ben or not, whether Ben communicates that way,
he has, uh, been the recipient of that, that love language, uh,
quite a lot on the show.
Um, so, uh, so I've said, I've said this and, um, like to you over in private chat,
but I really appreciate what you guys do over the line,
especially the, the transatlantic calling show.
I think it's so needed in this, um, day and age of like the Elon Musk's and
the Jordan Peterson's of the Ben Shapiro's and the, what's that douchebag's name?
Um, oh God, he's the worst.
He's the worst of them all.
Um, uh, no, no, no, no, he's like, he's worst.
And you take my opinion.
I don't like to take it at all, but, um, he's right.
He made that documentary.
What is a woman?
Oh, oh, Matt Walsh.
Oh, I want to punch him in his stupid little face.
So there are so many that I'm like, I don't even,
I can't even bring it to mind.
But what I, what you do is you have this, this, this, this calling show.
And let me just like bring it up.
Um, the line, it's amazing show.
Um, uh, let me just, uh, switch tabs.
But you have this, this show where people can call up and talk to real,
um, trans people and ask questions.
So this is the, the line, the whole, um, kind of, uh, channel,
but you have like, uh, let me go to home.
I think you have the, the transatlantic call in show.
So you have heaps of episodes and people just can call up and talk to real
trans people and ask questions.
Um, without all like the politics and the, um, well,
there's probably some politics in there, but do you know what I mean?
Without all like the, the in fire, like the drama that goes on in the
headlines and things like that.
And I think it's just really, really, really needed today's age.
I appreciate that.
Yeah.
We, uh, so Katie and I came up with the idea for Takas cause we were,
it was like two and a half years ago or something like that now.
And she messaged me and we had, uh, connected cause we were both,
you know, doing some atheist stuff and we did a thing together.
And then we were kind of talking about like, man, there's nothing really
out there that talks about trans issues from a skeptics perspective.
Um, where like people can actively answer, you know, there's so much stuff
that you see on, on social media all the time, like, uh, trans women's
participation in sports, uh, you know, or whatever, you know, all these
like really inflammatory conversations.
There's never facts included.
It's always how a lot of how people feel, how it makes them feel,
which is usually trans.
He is the big, big feeling.
They like to talk about a lot.
Um, even if they don't say those words, uh, that's usually another.
And so we were just kind of like, I want to show that's kind of like,
you know, at the time we said AXP, although maybe now we would have
said the Sunday show, uh, not throw in shade, maybe, okay,
maybe a little shade, but, uh, we, we just wanted to show where we
could take calls actively and from a skeptics perspective, you know,
with actual like facts and information, do our best to address
uh, these claims that people are making about trans people and a
lot of the propaganda that we see, that's just so widespread and
so pervasive in the culture.
Um, you know, I think we are really in the heat of a trans panic as
it were, uh, you know, sort of like when the gay liberation movement
started in like the seventies, there was, um, just so much pushback.
Uh, the orange juice commercial lady Anita Bryant, uh, was going on
talk shows, morning talk shows all over America talking about how
gay people are, you know, going to be coming into the bathrooms
and indoctrinating your children and all this stuff we're hearing now.
Um, and so we just really wanted a space where we could like,
like I'm sick of answering these questions, you know, from one off
strangers and constantly all the time on Twitter, I want to have a
place where I can sit down, actually have a conversation with someone
and address the things that they say directly.
And that's kind of how that started.
And, um, I'm really glad that we've done it.
Sometimes it's still weighs on me.
I don't love sitting in the worst parts of conversations all the
time. Sometimes it gets old really fast and I'm like, man, I've
addressed this hundreds of times, but I try to have patients knowing
that everyone is coming in starting from a different point.
And you know, they may not have countered this information yet.
And we've had a lot of really good productive conversations where
when we presented people with information, they actually were
like, Oh, I didn't know that.
And they actually kind of like took it in and digested it.
And maybe they didn't change their views right there on that moment.
But at least that's now, you know, the only thing in their brain isn't
the propaganda.
They have the propaganda point and the actual facts about the situation
and how they decide to sort that is their business.
But at least, you know, we're being able to provide that sort of voice
of reason on the conversation.
So that's the goal.
And I think we are largely doing that.
We don't always get the most sincere callers, which is a little
frustrating.
And we thought that this, because as you pointed out, it's such a hot
button topic that we thought like, for sure, we're going to get tons
of callers right away who want to get right into all those points.
And we get maybe a good caller or two on an episode that sounds
shitty.
I don't mean to talk badly about the other callers, but, you know,
the active productive in that way.
Yeah.
Yeah.
My inkling and my background is in marketing.
So I'm always looking at things from a marketing perspective.
But my background, it's already affected me.
See, I told you, I said my use the wrong words.
I made your drink too strong.
I'm sorry.
No.
So my inkling is that it's not actually a well thought out issue.
It's a reactionary thing.
And as a result, people don't have like legitimate questions.
Like people have like, they'll see like some like, they'll see like
Arnold Schwarzenegger with a wig on, like beating up someone in a
ring or something and be like, this person says they're a female.
And then therefore, like this is all, this is stupid.
And they're just reacting to headlines and the media industry, you
know, just pushes these headlines because it's good.
They also have like, it's good for, for business, but it's also, it's
like a self-perpetuating thing that just continues to build.
And I wonder like, because like, you know, just, just like, just
recently, like I had a, I had a going away.
I had a going away, I just left my job of 11 years
and had a going away dinner.
And one of the older managers of the company,
he come up to me and goes,
he goes, what the fuck's this?
He's like, he was so confused.
He had an email on his phone.
He's like, what is this?
And I'm like, what?
And he's like, what is this?
And I'm looking and I'm looking for it.
And he's like, there.
And it said that someone from another company
had emailed them and said,
and then had she slash her after their name.
And he's like, what does that mean?
He's like, and he was really confused.
Like he was calling other men.
He's like, is it, he didn't understand it.
Like he wasn't being like,
he actually didn't, he'd never sing pronouns
and I was like, and I like try to explain it to him.
And everyone was like, straight away,
everyone like would drinking in a bar.
And it's mainly like all the, you know,
I worked in a very, construction based industry.
And it was, you know, everyone's like,
ah, it's rubbish, like, you know, all this stuff.
But then when I like, I was like, no, no, no, no, no.
And I like just laid it out.
And I was like, it's very simple.
And it's not only it's very simple,
it's like almost everyone can get on board with it.
Like every, like, I feel like if you just sit down
and you're like, hey, look, this is actually what it is.
It's like, oh, that makes sense.
Um, I mean, I'm rambling.
But, um, but yeah, definitely.
But, um.
Yeah, I was saying yeah to the instrument, but sure.
Yeah.
But, um, like gender isn't simple,
but the concept is just, is very simple.
But, um, but what you do is,
and what you guys do is just, is just, um,
phenomenal because you give that space.
And I have a feeling that the reason why, um,
you don't get like a huge amount of like calluses
because it doesn't have people's beliefs
that just reactionary.
They're not, it's not based on substance.
And I think what you're doing is bringing that substance.
Um, and that was, that was me just, um,
gloating over you guys for a little while,
but, uh, but yeah, anyway.
It's appreciated.
It's definitely a passion project.
And it's to see that it's grown to where it has
is really meaningful to me.
Um, so I appreciate it.
Um, gasping up the show.
So, uh, but, and this is something I, um,
just, just to, just to put it here on this,
but something that when Shannon Q came on,
my, my fear amongst the, the, the realm of, um,
skepticism and the conversation around these issues
is that someone here is like a bad faith actor,
like, uh, Matt Walsh or Jordan Peterson,
say something really hyperbolic,
but it sounds, um, it's rhetorically effective.
It gives a question in their mind.
But the question is asked like nine times out of 10
as by a troll, right?
I used to worry that what would happen
when someone came to like, um, I know the atheist experience
for some show before you guys had a thing coming on
and they would ask like this hyperbolic statement
and they would get met with fire
because nine times out of 10 on is a troll question.
But one times out of 10, it might not be a troll question.
It might be someone who's legitimately confused.
And then they get yelled at
because he got someone like defending their like identity.
And then they turn around like, wow,
I was just yelled at by these like,
these like skeptics online and, and stuff.
And the, the alt-right is there with open arms going,
we told you they're all crazy, come here.
And then like, I was worried that it was like
building, like building more radicals on the other side
because of how touchy the, the subject is.
But what I, and, and, and just to finish,
well, that's why I love about your show
is you, you take these people a lot.
Like you take them on and you have reasonable conversations.
So, oh my God, that was a long,
that was a long amount of me talking about,
good you guys.
Anyway, so it must be profound to sit in that seat
and like, we're talking about this stuff
as a transgender woman yourself.
Can you tell us a little bit about your story
and like how you came to grips with that?
And I guess like your journey of self-discovery
and acceptance.
Yeah, so my story is a little-
If you need to take a big sip of tequila, feel free.
Yeah, you know, maybe I'll finish off this first class.
Yeah, I better catch up.
My story is a little unconventional.
So I probably got sort of my first inklings
of being trans around like five or six or somewhere in there.
That's kind of like where a lot of my first memories
of that stuff are.
But I went to a private Christian school growing up
for kindergarten through like seventh grade.
I don't know how that equates to school years in Australia.
That's, yeah, I think that's about,
we go to high school like grade seven, grade eight,
and there's no middle school,
there's like primary school and high school, yeah.
Yeah, so kindergarten is like the first year
and then through seventh grade.
So it was like sort of in the middle,
what we would call middle school,
was where I was in that private Christian school.
And I think I got some pretty heavy rules
about what gender was pretty early
and it was pretty clear to me that like,
I had several instances where I think I tried
to express myself and was met with very clear, quick,
and not exactly cruel, but harsh pushback at like, no,
these are what the boxes are and this is where you fall.
And so it was pretty easy for me to know that
regardless of what I felt, I was supposed to be a boy.
I was supposed to fit in with the boys.
And I think on top of that,
the school I went to, our approach to the Bible
was very biblically literal.
And so, I had been hearing about
what an evomination gay people were for a long time.
And I think in my mind, I was like, well,
those people are disgusting freaks
and I'm not a disgusting freak.
So I must just be a normal boy.
It's kind of how I think I rationalized it.
And that kind of followed through,
there were maybe a few incidences throughout
the first like six years of primary school for me
that I sort of it bubbled up or became a thing
or I had a chance to like express it
and there was some sort of conflict over it
without going through like every nitty gritty event.
I mean, we can get into them if you want to, but.
Yeah, I would actually like to just,
sorry for interjecting, but what are some examples
of like feeling like I don't feel like I connect with this
but I'm supposed to, like what are some examples of that?
One really prominent example in my brain is
I have a lot of cousins.
My mom has a lot of siblings and they all have a lot of kids.
My mom only had me and my older sibling,
but my cousins liked to dress me.
I was the baby for a long time in the entire family.
So they liked to, I was a dress up toy
to a lot of my older girl cousins.
And I remember having like this one situation
where with my, the most devout religious family,
one of those cousins was just like a year or two older than me.
We were really close and she wanted to play dress up.
So she brought me up to her room,
she dressed me up like a girl
and her dad was around the house.
So she was like, I wanna go show you off to our moms,
but we have to sneak our way down to where they are
because if my dad sees you, we're gonna get in trouble,
like big trouble.
So that was one of those things to me
where I was like, it was very clear where I was like,
man, I like how I look, I like how I feel,
I like dressing like this, but it's very obvious that
to other people, me doing this is a very big deal to them
for whatever reason.
And I remember to ask you, my cousin,
after we've made our way down to our moms
and we did a little dance or something,
I went back, I remember being like,
oh, next time we should get hair extensions
so I can have long hair.
I wanna have long hair with it too.
It's like, oh my God, that'd be amazing.
And then when we got in the car,
I remember my mom saying something to be effective.
Like, so my parents were divorced and they had split custody.
Her saying something to be effective.
So I gotta bring you over to your dad's
and we're not gonna talk about
that that's what we did here today.
And like in hindsight, my mom's like my biggest supporter.
She didn't mean for that message
to have like such a lasting impact on me.
But like for sure, the message multiple times in one day
of like the men in our life can not know
that you transgress gender boundaries
was like very, very loud.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I mean, then like I wanted to grow my hair out
in elementary school and we had very strict rules
because this is probably a Christian school
about how boys can only have hair at a certain length.
I had teachers pull me aside like multiple times
and be like, you've gotta cut your hair.
You've gotta cut your hair.
There was one event where we had a Christmas event
called Red and Green Day
and I had my cousin paint my nails red and green.
And we got up my class on the auditorium like stage
to show off our red and green outfits.
I went like this to the camera to show off my nails.
I was like, look at my nails.
And I had my teacher reprimand me for that.
And my dad told me that that was bad.
I shouldn't have done it anyway.
And if I'm gonna do it, I'll just look at my nails like this.
This is how men look at their nails.
Men don't do this.
Yeah.
So, you know, there are a lot of like really strong messages
about like me transgressing gender boundaries.
And I think I just internalized really early.
I didn't have a phase of like fighting my parents
on the gender thing because like,
I think the message was pretty loud and clear.
I wasn't gonna win that fight boys.
I was a boy and boys were this.
And that was just the end of the story.
So those are a few examples.
I think there's probably some more,
but now I'm drinking.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's the third great and keep drinking.
This is the deep, deepest drinks.
But I shouldn't encourage drinking.
You don't have to drink if you don't want to.
But when I was,
that's so different because I think everyone dresses up
when they're with their kids.
And for me, I was like, I'm gonna dress up and I dressed up.
My mom took photos of it and I brought it into school
and showed everyone for show and tell.
And it was like, I still can't believe I did that.
Everyone was laughing and it was funny.
But this other time I remember my mom,
I was like, mom, I want to put nail polish on.
She's like, yeah, cool.
Like I was just, you know, we're just bored.
And me and my little brother, we just like put nail polish on.
And I'm like, okay, how do we get love?
She's like, I don't have nail polish.
And my mom was like, I don't have nail polish remover.
And we're like, what do you mean?
And we couldn't get a love.
And we're like, what do you mean?
I was like, I'm going to school tomorrow.
And we had to, I remember like riding our bikes
with this nail polish on to my friend's house
who had sisters to see if they had nail polish removed
to try and get a love.
Cause we didn't know how to get a love.
It was funny story.
But yeah, it was very much,
but for me it was very much like,
I didn't feel like liberated or anything by like that.
I didn't like, it wasn't like something, you know?
So it was very different.
So continuing on with the story.
So like there were some of the experiences you had,
but then how did like, how did you go from, you know,
thinking, you know, gay people, what is icky?
He said, and you're all gross and you're not so, they're bad.
So you don't want to like, how did continue the story a little bit?
How did you go from there?
Yeah, I think eventually enough like media stuff
about people who, you know,
were born a man and became a woman
or something to that effect kind of came into my field of view.
I mean, I can think of multiple cartoon instances
where I remember like my heart beating rapidly
because like there was a magical gender transformation
on a cartoon and me being like, oh my God, that's a thing.
Like obviously it's magical in the cartoon,
but then I specifically remember watching Trans America,
which was a publicity husband.
Let me look that up.
It's a movie that came out in like the early 2000s.
Yes, Trans America.
Yes, Felicity Huffman and Kevin Zegers,
something like that.
I don't know how to pronounce these names,
but Felicity Huffman in this movie played a trans woman
who was like meeting her son,
who was like a porn star or something like that.
That was the first time in the real world,
I got an image of somebody who, that came out in 2005.
So I would have been 10 years old at that time.
Where I kind of remember it really entering my brain
that like that's not just a magical cartoon thing
that can happen, but like there are people in the real world
who actually do live as a different gender
than the one they were born as.
And I think I was a kid of the internet.
And so the first thing I did was like,
wait for my parents to be both at work.
And then was like, I have to fucking Google this shit.
I have to know what's going on
because that's the craziest thing I've ever heard.
And then I just encountered a lot of examples
through the internet of trans people existing.
And it was around 13 or 14.
I think it was just before my freshman year of high school
that I asked my mom to have a conversation.
And I was told her, I think I'm a girl.
And she was like, I don't know what that means.
I was like, I don't either.
But I've seen these people on the internet
and like on like all of these talk shows and things.
And I think this is me.
And my mom did the best thing that she could have done,
I think in that situation,
which was found a local therapist
who connected me to a therapist
who was actually trans himself.
I didn't know it until like our second session
or something like that.
And he really helped me kind of initially
kind of come to understand things
as much as I could at that age.
And so I actually made the effort to transition
when I was about 14, my freshman year of high school,
I was already talking to the therapist.
And we were, so back then the guidelines
were that you had to be presenting as your gender
or be talking to a therapist or something like that
for a period of like six months or something.
I don't remember exactly what it was.
But there were a lot more strict rules back then.
And so I was going through that period
and meeting endocrinologists.
You couldn't get this medicine from your primaries back then.
You had to go to an endocrinologist,
like someone who specializes in hormones
and things like that.
And they got me started on puberty blockers.
I know those are the real controversial one, right?
They're like, oh, they're irreversible damage.
They were not irreversible damage.
I was on them for about, I wanna say like six to nine months
maybe, and then they switched me over to HRT,
hormone replacement therapy.
And my sophomore year of high school,
which is like year 10 for us, I was homeschooled.
My parents homeschooled me and I just went to school
to do like drama and chorus.
Cause those are things that I loved that were artsy.
It was pretty safe in those parts of school for me.
So I was able to like still be in contact with my friends,
what kind of transition under the radar sort of.
But it didn't remain under the radar for long
because I lived in a very, very, very small town.
It was in the middle of nowhere in Northern Vermont.
Like there is like 2000 some odd people in our hometown.
And the high school pulled from like five counties around
because it was like the only high school
that everyone could go to.
So it was a lot broader of a reach at our school
than just the county, but it was a small, very small world.
And I got really badly harassed and bullied.
I got death threats on the phone pretty repeatedly.
I was called an it and a thing all the time in person.
And God, yeah, it was pretty difficult for me.
I didn't really handle it all well.
And I was severely depressed.
And my parents didn't really know what to do
because they had never ever even heard of a trans person before,
you know, outside of like jokes,
let alone had one in their life.
It doesn't mean to have like depression
and all of these bullying issues on top of it.
They just really didn't know what to do.
And basically I realized at about 17
after bullying and reject or not when I was 17 years old,
I decided I was gonna detransition.
I said, just basically if it's gonna be this difficult
to be a trans person in this world,
I would rather be miserable
and force myself to try to be normal
and have like, you know, at least have like a partner
and someone I love and like a job and like have a life
than be in the position I was in all the time.
So I went through a period of detransition
from 17 to about 22.
I went to college and tried to like erase
that part of my life.
Cause at my hometown, everyone knew who I was.
I couldn't get away from it.
But at college, I was like, I can start over,
I can start fresh, people aren't gonna know that about me.
So I really tried to rebuild
and it just, it wasn't sustainable.
I had total mental breakdowns.
I had full dissociation episodes
where I would like black out in class
and wake up at home, like under the blankets
and be like, I don't even know how I got here.
Yeah, it was pretty awful.
I was hospitalized twice.
I went to that like outpatient facilities a bunch
for like severe depression and suicidality.
And I don't know if I, there was a specific point.
I mean, I even joined a fraternity when I was in college.
That's how much I was really trying to be a boy.
Yeah, you try to like grow down like,
yeah, depression beers on your head and stuff kind of thing.
Yeah. Oh, totally.
Yeah, I was trying really hard.
And I don't know, eventually I just hit a point
where it was like, the problem is that
I feel like I'm still trans and I don't want to be.
And that was the core of all of my dysfunction in my life.
Like 100%.
I was like, I know it is that this thing still exists in me
and I can't accept it and I can't tolerate it.
So I basically just went on like a intense journey
to try to like read like feminist literature
and read memoirs by women
and review the literature on like trans healthcare
and just try to like really holistically
try to reprogram my brain's messages about like queer people
and women and sexuality and all of those things
and really like try to undo the shame complex
that was like so deeply wired into me.
Luckily, I feel like I was pretty much able to do that
by like 22, I was like, well, regardless of whether or not
I end up going all the way with transition
or whatever you want to say.
I was like, I think I want to do hormones
and I think I want to get like laser hair removal.
So those are like two steps that I started out.
I was like, I'm going to do those things
and see where it goes.
And really after I started hormones, it was done.
I was like, nope, I feel so much more alive
and like actually present for all of my life.
And I was really fortunate.
My best friend who I was my roommate all through college
is still my best friend,
genuinely one of the best people in the entire world.
I can't get a cry just thinking.
He's genuinely like so overwhelmed me with his support
because it was like with what I went through in high school
I was like expecting to have no one basically.
Be like, I'm on my own again, but he stuck through
and he's always been there.
So he's a real one.
Oh, wow.
Oh, that is just so, it's so,
I can't even relate, you know, like I said, it's so,
when you were going through the experience
of I guess trying to de-transition,
what did it feel like?
Did you, did it feel like you were putting on a mask?
Did it feel like you were trying to do something
but it just wasn't really taking?
Yeah, so alongside me choosing to de-transition
was me meeting who was at that time
my girlfriend for three years.
And we were really, really close,
but I knew that like me being trans
was a little bit of an issue for her.
And so like my relationship with my dad,
we used to be so close when I was little
and even when I de-transitioned,
it never went back to what it was.
But I was kind of like, if I do this,
I'm not gonna try to think of like a stand in name, Carol,
I'll call her Carol for now.
I was like, I'm gonna do this
and then I'll be able to keep Carol in my life
and maybe my relationship with my dad
will kind of come back into play.
And like that will make me, you know,
in spite of the awfulness that it makes me feel all the time
and makes me feel kind of like a fraud
and like everyone sees through what a big fraud I am
cause they all know this thing about me.
At least I'll be able to like get through life.
If I have a partner and like my family, like I'll be okay.
It's kind of my mindset.
And I don't know, it just, it was obvious to me
that when I walked around in my hometown
that everyone saw me as a bit of a freak.
I think they still look at me that way to be honest.
Cause it's, again, it's a small town
when I go home, everyone knows exactly who I am.
Yeah, I think they, I feel like I see how they interact
when I'm not there.
When I come into the picture, it's very, very different.
And so yeah, it just kind of was like, I don't know.
It was definitely a performance.
And that was kind of why I was excited about college
and getting to erase my past
and kind of like try to rebuild, you know?
Cause it was like, even if that's gonna be difficult
and I'm gonna be alone,
like maybe people seeing me as normal
will like make me feel good or make me feel like accepted.
But none of that did.
Cause what I needed was to accept
that I am trans and I'm a woman
and I just needed to learn to accept that, you know,
regardless of what other people think,
regardless of whether they think I'm a freak or whatever,
I needed to like me for me.
And I was just not anywhere near that at that age.
Yeah.
It's like you're swapping one conflict for another.
Like you're like, okay, well, you know,
at least I want to have to deal with this
like emotional conflicts,
but I'll be taking on this other one.
But, you know, it just, it sounds very hard,
very, very hard.
And were you Christian through a lot of this
or did you deconstruct your Christianity at a certain age?
I had deconstruct Christianity pretty, no, no.
I had kind of stopped believing pretty young actually.
Like the last time I really remember being a Christian
was when I was about 10 years old
and I was no joke praying to God, like almost every night.
Like I would love for you to let me in my sleep,
live an entire life as a girl.
And then when I wake up, I will be a good Christian boy.
And it was like a lot of those kinds of prayers
and a lot of just trying to like feel the thing
that everyone talked about feeling.
And the church I went to is very charismatic too.
There's a lot of speaking in tongues and hands in the air
and feeling the presence of God kind of thing.
And I just didn't get any of that.
Never once did I feel it.
And I tried, I genuinely tried so hard.
And I went to the private Christian school
where I read the whole fucking Bible
probably multiple times over.
Like I wasn't unfamiliar with what I was supposed to feel
or what the beliefs were, it just, I didn't feel it.
And so it was pretty easy for me by like around 10 or 11
to just kind of start to be like,
I think God might be kind of
in the same category as Santa Claus for me.
But I did get really into Wu from like 15 to like 20.
So I was really into like-
Oh, like, I thought it was like a God.
I was like, what's Wu?
You mean like crystals and like voodoo or something?
Yeah, crystals wasn't my niche,
but it was that kind of stuff.
Like I was into like out of body meditation
and like past live meditation.
And I was like, oh, I can like connect with like the past lives.
Like I convinced myself that the reason I was trans
was because I had a past life as a woman.
That was one thing I told myself for a long time.
Oh yeah.
Which was like a good excuse, right?
Like it kind of makes sense.
Like, you know, if you're looking for a reason
for why you would do something like that,
it was a convenient excuse, but I, sorry, go ahead.
Oh, I was just gonna say it is interesting that people,
people like seem to have this need for something spiritual.
Like it seems like, and I don't know if that's just culturally,
like you're brought up that way.
But like even like, when I was deconstructing my faith,
one of the things I used to do is,
I remember I used to go,
I was going through a really hard time with anxiety
and I've got OCD and stuff.
And I took my camera, I do landscape photography,
I go do landscape photography and I listen to,
I listened to Waking Up by Sam Harris.
I know Sam Harris has his problems,
but that book, amazing.
And it kind of introduced me to like a more,
a kind of spiritual-esque perspective of the world
that wasn't necessarily spiritual.
So like meditating for the sake of like calming your brain
or like, this wasn't in the book,
but like when I look up at the stars
and like think about the vastness of the universe,
I just tremble at all kind of thing.
I'm not to sound too biblical,
but like I, yeah, I get, you know,
there's things that,
oh, when I think about evolution even,
I just kind of like, well, like the diversity of,
the thing that we brought our beagle in to get desexed
and like, you know, what, 3.4 billion years of evolution
just like snipped off.
Like his line has survived.
And then we just like cuddled off
because we can't be bothered with him,
like like ruining our couch cushions and stuff.
It's just so funny and also like-
What are you free with that way?
Yeah, yeah.
It's like, you know what I mean?
His line has survived 3.4 billion years.
And then it's like,
it's just like, man, 300 bucks,
we'll just pay it to get his nuts cut off.
So, you know, do you,
how do, have you replaced that with anything?
Like yourself, like since you, you got into the woo,
do you, what's your woo now?
I think I, I mean, it sounds like I'm similar to you
where I like, I didn't read some Harris's book,
but it was pretty easy for me to,
I actually just reviewed the literature.
So when I would, I went to a college for a psych
and like one of my focuses was research.
And so I got really into just like reading papers.
So it was very easy for me to be like,
oh, like meditation is actually a really strong
evidence-based practice for coping with a lot of different
forms of psychological distress.
And so it was, and because I already had that foundation
of meditation from the woo-woo stuff,
it was actually really easy for me to like,
just kind of like enter that space
and just use it scientifically and like practically.
And I'm not good at being consistent with it, I'll say,
but I still feel like when I just sit down,
like once every other month or so,
and just do like a 10 minute,
I'm like, man, I feel it.
The effects that it has on me is so profound.
And I also genuinely like looking up at the stars
is one of those things that for me is like,
just a really profound thing.
Like humans have been doing this for generations
and generations.
And you know, when you're sifting through all the bullshit
of like trans rights issues and like,
do, you know, people think I'm a freak
and like, you know, we don't have healthcare in America.
And like everyone's fucking their guns everywhere.
It's crazy to just be like, ah, like,
just looking at the stars feels so nice.
And it feels like I'm connected to like humanity
in some broad way and not in like a woo woo way,
but just in like emotionally,
it feels really good to be like, I don't know,
just grounded in like my humanity.
And yeah, I think I still hold on to it.
Like touch grass kind of thing, like, yeah.
You say that again, what was that?
Oh, it was like touch grass kind of thing.
Like, you know, like God, you think you're camping
or something, you know what I mean?
Like, like, you know, get out there and like,
you know, we, you know, being, being in it,
you know, funny with the meditation,
I used to do a lot of meditate, not a lot.
I did a little bit like I'm talking,
I could probably count like probably 50 times
on something I've meditated in my life.
So not a huge amount,
but I have done it for a long time
and I got given a float tank experience for my birthday.
But it was like a couples one.
And let me tell you, that is not the right environment for me.
Like, so I bought a couple to go by myself
because the experience is you get naked
with my, you should see my wife, she's stunning.
And I get naked with my wife.
And so my mind's not in the realm of that.
And then we're floating in the tank.
And all I can think about is like how hot she was.
But then also like, I'm like floating around,
I'm floating around in this tank.
And I'm like, huh, I'm like my nose ring.
I was like, the salty water would be good
for like my nose, nose ring.
So I like put some on my nose, on my face.
Then it goes into my nostrils.
And I'm like, I'm like, I'm like burning.
I'm like, I'm like sneezing.
So I sit up and the water splashing around
and Amy's bobbing, bobbing up and down.
And then I'm using the spray bottle
to spray the water in my face
to get the salty water off my face.
And like the whole experience was just like,
and then I'm just lying there,
just like trying to like cool myself off like hypothetically,
like, like, because I'm just cancel thinking about it.
And like, this is not like, I just couldn't,
it was a test, you know,
where I think it's meant to be like a very,
so I'm going to go by myself and see if I enjoy it more.
Cause it just meals is like, let's get to the action.
You know, like, it was like, let's have some fun.
Yeah.
I've always wanted to do those float tanks.
I'm not sure if I would like it or not.
Like I feel like I'm pretty good at like,
entering that, that just sort of meditation mind space.
And then just kind of like,
I remember recently I went to visit my,
my sibling in Portland and they were like,
oh, I want to do like a 10 minute meditation.
Like it's kind of a long one if you can do it.
Cause I know you don't do it all the time.
And they meditate all the time.
But they're still kind of into like the woo stuff.
And I was like, oh no, I'm not worried about it at all.
Like even though I don't do it very often,
it's pretty easy for me to like get into that mind space
in like 30 minutes or God.
And I'm like, oh, wow, that was cool.
So I don't know, it would be interesting to try,
but I'm not sure that there is,
I think it would just kind of be for fun.
Cause I, I haven't looked at any of the literature
on like the sensory deprivation tanks.
And like if they add any sort of efficacy to like,
or they make it easier to enter it.
Like I don't know, I don't know what the process is like at all.
I think it's, it's, I think traditionally,
and I've just seen Hamilton's Pharmacopia
and a bunch of like documentaries on it.
But traditionally the idea was to remove
as much sense sensory experiences as you can.
And then as a result, you just left with your thoughts.
So it's, it's, it's more about,
and people go in for like three, four hours, you know,
and they'll go in for a long period of time.
And they're sometimes all like,
do you think like that people might hallucinate
or people might, you know,
their brain starts to do some funny stuff
when you're in that environment.
I don't know if that's like what they're doing now
because like sometimes I'll play music
when you first walk in and you can turn it off.
And you can still hear like the jack hammering
from the construction next door.
So like, you know, there's a little bit of,
that didn't happen, but I did hear a couple of bangs.
But the point is, is like, I think,
I think it's moved away from its original intent.
And now it's more, more gimmicky.
But it's fun.
Like I definitely recommend it, but like it's,
it's a fun experience, but yeah.
There's a lot of that stuff in sort of the beauty,
sort of like self-care industry.
Like, I mean, I, there's like so many different
like kind of facial things that you can get that like,
they'll be like FDA approved,
but I will dig and dig and dig and dig.
And I'm like, I cannot find any data on this like at all.
And it's just, it just doesn't exist.
And I'm like, who came up with this?
Like like put blood plasma on your face
and then like do little pokes all through your face.
And that starts to like increase your collagen production.
And I'm like, I cannot find anything on this anywhere.
What, what, who came up with this shit?
Yeah, it's wild.
There's a, does Glenn, is it Glenn Petro, Glenn Petro?
She like has that company Gloop or something or like,
of course it's called.
But it's like, it's like the pseudoscience
of pseudoscience, like beauty products.
Yeah, it's, so I was hoping we could do a little segment
that I would like to call, explain it to me
like I'm 10 years old.
And I tried to get AI out to make this,
but it was just a bunch of concerned looking 10 year olds,
but explain it to me like I'm 10 years old.
Okay.
So I was hoping what we could do,
and we might be able to clip this
and I'll send this to my,
Homer, a transphobic aunties or something.
I don't have transphobic aunties,
but you know, everyone has like a transphobic relative,
but I'll send this to whoever that is.
Absolutely, so many.
So, okay.
The biggest thing I hear all the time
is by conservatives.
Is that conservatives like to,
they're like, we got the science,
like you're a biological male or biological female.
And it's like, one, it's fucking annoying
because it's not, that's not accurate,
but two, it's very, like I was saying before,
it's very, the concept is very simple.
And what I like to say is,
when I want to talk to these people,
I say, what is a tomboy?
And they say, and I'll go like,
they'll go, what do you mean?
They're still a girl, they're still a girl.
They're someone who's, I'm like, what is that saying there?
What are you saying there?
They're saying that what they have,
they like, you know, a female might like,
you know, masculine thing to do masculine things,
but what is that masculine there?
Like, what are you talking about there?
Like, and I'm trying to like tiptoe them
towards like what gender is.
So, I want to ask you, essentially,
what is biological sex?
What is gender?
And then what is transgender?
And explain it to me like I'm 10, if that's cool.
Sure, so.
Biological sex, what is biological sex?
Biological sex is a collection of traits.
So, you know, something we all heard
in elementary school science was that boys are XX
and girls, or sorry, girls are XX and boys are XY.
And I think when we're talking about,
sorry, you want me to explain it like you're 10.
Generally speaking, for most people,
that's going to be true, right?
Most boys are going to be XY
and most girls are going to be XX.
But there are exceptions to that.
There are people who are born with boy parts
who actually have internal female anatomy
and have the capacity to get pregnant.
Whether or not it's easy for them or likely for them
to carry a viable fetus to term is another conversation.
Sorry, we're getting into more medical language again.
But there are lots of things that go into sex, right?
Sometimes when your doctor decides what letter
to put on your birth certificate,
they don't evaluate your chromosomes.
They go on what genitals you have outside your body.
And if it's the case that somebody
can have external male genitalia,
but be internally and chromosomally female,
then we're already getting into territory
where saying boys are XY and girls are XX
is not sufficient.
It's true most of the time for sure,
but there are absolutely edge cases.
And when we're talking about trans people,
we're talking about the edge cases.
We're talking about the exceptions
and the edges of what biology typically does.
That's why it's better to say,
it's a bimodal distribution, right?
And if you know things about statistics,
that means most of the results land on two points
on a graph on an axis,
but there are actually points all over that axis
in reality.
So biological sex, I would say is a collection of traits.
It has to do with your hormones.
It has to do with your genitals.
It has to do with your secondary sex characteristics
like your boobs or your facial hair.
It has to do with your chromosomes.
And all of those things are at play
when we're talking about biological sex.
And I think when it comes to like those intersex cases,
where somebody has external gonads that are one way
and internal chromosomes that are another,
most of us would consider those people cisgender.
Or like, if somebody has external female genitalia,
it was raised their whole life as a girl,
identifies as a girl,
but finds out that they have XY chromosomes
or something like that.
Most of us would still say, you're a cis woman.
Like everything about your life
has led you to the experience of a cis woman.
And that's why I would argue that,
while I prefer the label trans for what I am,
I think it's more accurate to say
that trans people change their sex.
Because when I'm transitioning,
when I'm changing the biological factors about my body,
my gender has always been the same.
It has never changed.
But I am changing the facts about my body.
I don't like the term transsexual
because it's loaded politically.
And we can talk about that if you want.
But I would say that what I'm doing is changing my sex,
my sex characteristics,
and my gender has always been the same.
It wasn't really 10-year-old explanation.
No, no, that was still great.
I say explain it like you're 10
because the people who need to hear this
act like 10-year-olds.
But so those on the right, like so Matt Walsh, for example,
he'll say it's, you typically say it's a chromosomes,
which is funny, because then he doesn't know
like he doesn't know what his wife is.
He hasn't checked his wife's chromosomes.
He doesn't know what his dad is, his mommy.
He doesn't know anyone.
He's just walking around like,
I have no idea if you're a man or a woman.
Like he's literally like the world that he must live in
that he professes to live in where it's like,
it's chromosomes and it's hard biology is so inaccurate
because he's not running around like grabbing people's junk
and checking their chromosomes before he has a conversation.
He's making assumptions
based on how they present themselves.
Right.
I also think there's some levels to how people talk about this
when you get into the gender critical anti-trans arguments.
So like the first level I would say is when they are on that
like elementary school conceptualization of male and female
which is XX and XY chromosomes.
The next level is your gametes,
which is either small mobile gametes,
which in humans is sperm or large immobile gametes,
which in humans are the eggs.
This tends to be the case for all mammals
as far as I'm aware.
But again, when all mammals at a population level,
there are exceptions in all of those species as well,
just like there are in humans.
The next level beyond that is usually they'll say,
when you point out that, well,
trans women who have had genital surgery,
they're not making any gametes.
So clearly gametes are insufficient to describe sex.
They'll say what your body is organized around producing,
which at that point to me reads as like a sex soul,
an amorphous energy that your body was organized
around producing small mobile gametes.
And it's like, that's ridiculous.
If you wanna say that before getting genital surgery,
you are still a biological male,
you can say that if you want.
I don't know if there's actually medical utility to that.
I think for a lot of trans women, even before surgery,
it's probably more medically efficacious
to refer to us as females
in terms of the medicine that we get.
But you could say that if you wanted,
but then what happens when I get the surgery?
Am I no longer a biological male?
And do I become a biological female?
Like these questions, they don't have answers to either.
So pretending like biological sex is a gotcha is really funny
because in reality, these categories,
I mean, all categories,
this is just set theory and philosophy.
All categories are loose and fuzzy around the edges.
There's no categories that are clean, cut, hard.
I mean, you have things like,
like you can't have like a square circle, right?
Like a square is a square.
But like when it comes to like bodies in biology
and social constructs and all of these things,
there's no categories that are hard like that.
And I think it's fine to use the deaf and, oh, sorry, sorry.
Oh, well, I was just gonna say, most people have like,
yeah, oh God, yep, is it Down syndrome?
People either have like an extra chromosome or they have,
yeah, so, and I don't know how many,
we have like 24 chromosomes, is that right normally?
23, I think it is, yeah.
28, see, big brain, big, I got big brain, sorry.
So yeah, so like, so typically humans have 23 chromosomes
or that X amount of chromosomes, right?
But there are 40, 60, 40 pairs, okay.
But there are humans that sometimes like,
this is where it's like, it's typical.
Like typical humans have 23 chromosomes,
pairs of chromosomes,
but there are some with an extra one.
That doesn't mean they're not human or whatever.
They're just someone with Down syndrome.
And that's just like, but there's a vast trend.
And for the vast, this is why I think people don't get it,
is for the vast amount of people,
they will, leaving out gender, just biological sex,
if we could test people,
the vast amount of people are not intersex.
The vast amount of people have the typical XY chromosome
and the genitals to match or whatever.
I don't even, if that sounded able to, whatever.
Nope, you're on, you're good.
Yeah, so cool.
So, so, and that's where the discrepancy lies.
But I think what,
and I think what you'd really hit the nail on the head
when you said that like,
there's like a biological sex soul or something,
because this is what I think,
this is how I think people think.
I think people appeal to nature and they appeal to God.
I think they go, we were designed this way.
And you can see it like,
I saw it on, I don't watch this podcast,
but I watched someone that goes on this podcast
at the Fresh and Fit podcast.
Oh yeah, yeah.
And the question they were asking is,
what were we put here for?
What were we, like,
what do you think people were put here for?
And everyone answered the question.
And I was like, that's such a dumb,
that's presupposing so much like shit.
Like we weren't put here, we weren't created.
Like we're part of an evolutionary line of history.
Like that's the science, baby.
Like there's no reason.
Like, you know what I mean?
Like you're injecting so much stuff.
But if you don't have that understanding,
it can be very hard for someone to understand.
Like why would God create someone with these other,
why isn't a biology just strict?
Why is it like that?
And they start to make up reasons,
but it's because they're coming in with a presupposition.
That's why I think that you're nailing ahead with the soul,
the sexual soul or the biological sex soul or something.
Yeah, but what's frustrating is even,
I agree with you.
I think 99% of the people who propagate these ideas
are in that category,
but you do have intellectual people propagating this.
Like Richard Dawkins, for example,
we'll talk about like that.
Now I appreciate, I actually think,
if I had a conversation with him,
I think I could get him to agree more than he does.
Because I've heard him talk about changing sex.
So I already know we agree on the matter of what transition is.
Like you are changing your sex characteristics.
Like that's what's happening.
But then he'll go on to say like,
you can't change your sex as in I'm like,
but then you're falling back on that,
that like metaphysical definition of sex
that isn't tied to reality.
Like if you want to say, I can't change my chromosomes,
I would agree with you.
But the next question would be,
why the fuck do I care?
Like, when have chromosomes ever been relevant?
Like never.
Yeah, but the thing is, like, look,
I know that, you know,
Richard Dawkins has definitely said some unsavory things.
I appreciate him for what he's done
for the field of science and skepticism stuff.
I'm kind of with you.
I think you could change his mind or his perspective,
I think he's just really old at this stage.
And it's like, and he's spent a lot of his career
like dealing with people who say things that are anti-science.
So I think he's like, it's almost like he's got this bias.
Like he's pushing really hard against it into certain narrative.
But if you sat down, you're like, no, no, no,
this is what we're talking about.
I think he would, he would, he would soften right up.
I don't, I don't, I don't get the vibe personally.
And I haven't seen a lot of this stuff recently
that he's like a bad faith act or anything.
Like I don't think he's like a John Peterson or whatever,
but I think he's a, he's just old and doesn't understand.
I think he's fallen down some property under rabbit holes.
Cause I've also seen him sharing things
like Abigail Schreyer's book, the, what is it?
Something, something in the transgender craze
that's seducing our daughters or whatever that book is.
And the primary source for that book is a paper
that was retracted by the publisher
and denounced by the publisher
because they sourced their participants from a website
that was about transphobic parents coming together
to talk about how much they don't think transness is real.
And it's like, you have such a bias sample.
Like the, I'm, when he first started doing this,
I tried to like post at him on Twitter and, and you know,
I went on mass show and we had tried to like be like,
we're not saying that if you do something transphobic,
you are wearing the scarlet letter
and you can't be recovered.
We're just saying that you have bought into transphobic
propaganda about trans people that is factually wrong.
Like on a scientific matter, which is something, you know,
you think you would appeal to, but it's, it's probably
just never reached him, I'm guessing.
Or he just doesn't care.
I don't know.
And I don't really spend a lot of time wanting
to change people's minds.
Like once people seem like they've got their head
burrowed into the sand like that, I tend to just say,
okay, I've done my part.
I've voiced my thoughts at you and I've shown the evidence.
And if you don't receive it, that's not my problem anymore.
But yeah, I think, I do think that he is just old
and set in his ways, but I also think he is unfortunately
maybe surrounded by people or consuming content
that is giving him a bad perception of the facts.
And he doesn't care enough to investigate
what the real facts are, which is unfortunate.
Yeah, I would, I would, yeah, I'd agree with that 100%.
Yeah, it's really, it really is unfortunate.
I did actually see him like a while ago, Matt,
telling to like fuck off and retire on Twitter.
And I thought I was like, I was like, ooh,
cause I knew, I know they'd have shared the stage
and forward stuff and like, I was like, oh, this is some
drama, but yeah, it's, it's, it's hard to,
because this is the thing is, and I said this to,
to, I think it was to Ben, but it was like, you know,
for, I don't know, actually, I haven't asked Matt,
but I, you know, I imagine Matt consists of cis and,
and, you know, so like, for myself, Matt or Richard Dawkins,
it's like a, it's like a, it's like a wrestle.
Like it's a conversation that you have
and you can argue the facts and stuff like that.
But for yourself, for yourself, Ben, for Chrissy,
like for, you know, my, my trans friends, it's like,
you guys like, it's like, not only are you debating
something that is like, has a lot of like, like,
in like fighting amongst like, you know,
there's this very heated discussion,
but it's like your identity, you're, you're like,
having to justify your identity and it must take so much
like, I don't know how you do it, honestly, sometimes.
It's like, you're just, it's like, you're like,
like behind it all is like, hey, I should be able
to exist, please.
Like that's what's behind it as well as like,
here are the facts, but it's like behind it's like,
you're fighting for like your, like rights, your life
in some way, it's like-
Yeah, no, you hit the nail on the head.
I actually specifically only talk about trans rights now
on Transatlantic or on podcasts like this,
because for me, I have just gotten to a place in my life
where, you know, some of this has to do with privilege.
I was able to like, get surgeries and things like that.
So I passed to a large extent.
Nobody ever misgenders me in public,
except for my family sometimes,
but that's a little bit more because that's, you know,
they knew the past me and all that stuff.
Nobody, no strangers ever misgenders me in public.
And I don't want to, I don't want, I didn't transition
so that I could talk about transness all the time.
I transitioned because I'm a woman
and I just want to live my fucking life unencumbered
by everyone else's bullshit.
So it's like, I don't talk about these things
or do these things in my personal life.
Like, sometimes Matt and I will see like a Twitter post
and we'll share it with each other
and we'll be like, ah, this person's so stupid
because of X, Y, and Z, but like,
I don't spend my time justifying myself anywhere else,
like ever in my personal life.
I'm not interested.
Like, if you think I'm a man, good for you.
You can go home and think that to yourself.
I genuinely do not give a fuck what you think
because my life shows me every day that I'm a woman.
I experienced misogyny like regularly.
Like we, Matt and I went to a rough tile expo
like a month ago and some dude was like,
while I was standing next to Matt was like,
how long have you had the trophy wife, dude or whatever?
And I'm like, I'm fucking you, man.
Was it like kind of like, was it the part of it
was like, yeah, fuck yeah.
Or was it where you're like, no, this is rude.
It's mostly gross to me.
It's like, what the fuck?
Like, sure, whatever, like, I don't know.
Like you're not getting misogyny, which is funny.
Like, is it like, is it like relief
that you're getting like a little bit of misogyny
or at the same time you like fuck off either misogyny
or is it like, I don't know.
It's reassuring for a millisecond
in the sense that I'm like, okay,
well, I know I don't look like a man to this person,
but it's also then it's like,
oh, but you're being a fucking pig.
So what the fuck?
Yeah, it's like you're, oh God, yeah.
This is kind of like a meme in the trans community.
Like the first time I noticed it,
I was working one of my old jobs.
I used to work in group homes
and with a bunch of individual clients and stuff.
And one of my clients would constantly insist
that I was a man, but would never misgender me
and would call me a bitch.
And are you guys the coolest thing
in Australia as long as you're like that?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
You call me a bitch and a cunt all the time at work.
And I mean, he was a kid with had like behavioral issues.
So like, I didn't take it personally,
but I was like, I love how you call me a man,
but then you call me a bitch and a cunt.
Like, how else are you doing that
to the other men who work here?
And like, what the fuck?
Yeah, is it like, it's like,
yeah, you know, I'm being treated as a woman.
Oh no, I'm being treated as a woman.
Is it like, is it like because there's like,
you know, you have like,
is it like a double-edged sword in some sort of way?
Yeah, I mean, it's like...
Yeah, I think it's more of like,
it's like, it's reassuring to know that like,
sometimes, you know, dysphoria will tell me like,
ah, like I look like a man or whatever.
It's nice to be like, okay, well,
that part of my brain is clearly wrong,
but then it's like, but now I actually have to do all the facts
that I'm dealing with misogyny in the real world.
So it's like, that's never a good feeling, you know?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
So, yeah.
Okay, explain it to me like I'm five.
This is like, this is the saucy one, like I'm 10.
See, I told you, my brain does like, that's it.
So explain it to me like I'm 10.
What is gender?
This is the saucy one,
because this is the thing
that a lot of people don't understand.
Okay, so to start, we have to separate something.
Gender is used in multiple different ways
to refer to different concepts.
When we're talking about my gender is woman,
we're talking about gender identity.
Gender identity is a,
I don't remember where I heard this turn the first time,
but since people have accredited to me, which is wrong,
I stole it from someone else,
but apparently I've been loud enough about using it,
that for some reason that has been a thing.
I will say it's a durable psychological contract,
much like sexuality or your handedness
or your personality, it's distinct from those things.
But I would also say it's not orthogonal from sexuality
and sex, it's not unrelated to those things,
but it is distinct and separate from them
in that it is a different construct.
They may influence each other with some effect,
but it is distinct and it is largely durable
over someone's life, but there are exceptions to that.
There are some people who feel like
it is more fluid for them,
but for most people it is largely durable and consistent
over the course of someone's life.
That is like their perception of their body
in a gendered and sexed world, right?
Like that is me, how I relate to my body
in a world where sex is a thing that exists
and where people have highly gendered expectations.
The other definition of gender would be
the socially held expectations and beliefs
that people have for men and women, boys and girls.
Like boys play with trucks and girls are princesses
and those sorts of things.
That's when we're talking about gender as a social construct,
but it's really important to know that gender identity
and gender as a social construct are distinct things
because I see regularly people conflating the two
and it's I think a huge,
because people will be referring to like,
if gender is a social construct,
why do you need to transition?
And it's like, well, because you're asking,
it's like asking like,
if some people are ambidextrous,
why do you write with your right hand?
Like the unrelated questions,
like those things do not exist in the same space.
Like yes, some people are ambidextrous
and yes, some people are neurologically wired
to write with their right or left hand.
Like yes, gender is a social construct.
Men and women can be and express their gender
in any way that they want
and society has fluctuated vastly across culture and time,
the way that gender is viewed.
But that being said,
that is distinct from the concept of gender identity,
which is the psychological model that I have in my mind
of me as a person in this world.
Interesting, you see, okay, that's something
I didn't, I don't fully understand and well, I'm learning.
So, okay, that's really, so that's super interesting.
So gender identity, so with your gender identity,
so like the internal view of yourself,
if for example, if we lived in a world
where men grew their nails out and pen on their nails
and went like this instead of like this
or whatever you did before,
do you think your gender would be a male in that world?
Like if it was topsy-turvy, like how does that...
Right, this is actually a really fascinating question.
I would think that, okay, so also all of this
is different from gender expression,
how you choose personally and express those things.
I suspect, but I don't know,
because it would be wildly unethical
to form some sort of study on this,
but I suspect that in that sort of world,
I would start doing this and the womanly things,
because my suspicion is that,
so there's no hard answer
as to why people's gender identity is the way it is.
There are some theories about like a uterine environment,
like hormone washes and exposure during pregnancy.
Those are some like some of the dominating theories.
There are also like, you know,
brain structures of trans people seem to represent more
of the sex that they identify with
than the sex that were assigned at birth,
but none of those are really good, reliable answers
to why someone has a gender identity
that is incongruent with their sex assigned at birth.
I suspect that if we live in a society
where the gender roles were flopped,
I would aspire to express myself
in a way that people would read as woman,
regardless of like, it's not this
that makes me feel like a woman.
I want to express that I'm a woman and this is woman.
You know what I mean?
Like, I think gender is, Natalie Nguyen,
ContraPoints, I did a great video
on how gender is sort of a language.
A lot of trans people when they first transition
will really over exert the femininity from trans women
and the masculinity from trans men
or like the complete androgyny from non-binary people,
not because that's necessarily
an authentic representation of who they are
as much as I desperately want the world to know
without me having to spell it out for them
that I'm a woman.
And even if maybe it's a little ridiculous or over the top,
if I perform womanhood for people,
that's what's gonna make them see me as a woman.
Like, I don't necessarily know
that I have a strong feeling about hairline.
Like, I like my hair like this,
but also I could tell you,
there's a lot of drawbacks to having long hair.
Someone was waiting for it to dry,
styling it is exhausting and time consuming, right?
But I do not want short hair at all
because that would probably extremely
masculinize me in this society.
So I suspect that in the reverse gender role society,
I would express myself in the way
that that society determined womanhood.
But I don't know, I don't know.
Maybe you're right and maybe it would be the other way.
It's really competent to say.
I don't know, I've often wondered this,
like, if someone grew up in a vacuum,
and when I think of that, I always imagine someone
just floating around in space
and being fed nutrients somehow.
But like, if someone was like grew up in a vacuum,
like, I wonder if like how they would,
I wonder if gender would play a role,
you know what I mean?
I wonder if it's like, it's part of being human,
being part of a society, being part of a tribe,
like socially constructing our place in the universe
and the world and our environment
that actually forms gender,
or if it's something that's like innate,
it's like a, I don't know, like bylawed,
like it's like literally part of the brain,
like he cut out the gender part of the brain
and it was something like, I don't know, I don't know.
There's some good theory on this.
A great book is, I don't agree with everything
that this person says.
Oh, and now I'm blanking on the book.
Judith Butler is the author.
Judith Butler, Gender Trouble.
She is a philosopher.
She, you know, gradually, she uses a lot of jargon
specific to her theories in her book
that sometimes it can be a little bit hard to follow,
but her theory is basically that the gender roles
that we have now, to what extent that there may be
the biological roots, is kind of completely irrelevant
because we have, she uses the word reify,
which basically means that like,
you and I grew up with families
who presented gender to us in a certain way,
and to what extent we change those as adults,
probably by and large, it's minor compared to the ways
in which we reaffirm those expectations of gender.
And that's called like reification under her model.
Like we reify gender roles.
And so there is a lot of theory about gender
and how it is formed, like these gender roles.
I think it's pretty clear to me that it is socially built
and there's not much biological root.
But at the same time, I don't know.
Also, as I get tips here,
I'm losing my train of thought a lot quicker.
So, you know, my ability to wax philosophy,
you know, philosophically,
can't even talk is decreasing rapidly.
This is the magic of deep drinks.
Subscribe, we have amazing guests coming up.
I love to be here, it's the best.
So if we were to explain it like you're 10 years old,
so for me, when I look at gender, I go,
gender is like, this is how I would describe gender
if I was talking to a 10-year-old.
It's like how someone, and I'd like to correct them all,
but it's like how someone feels essentially.
It's how someone identifies with either masculine
or feminine traits in the society that we've constructed.
So it's just kind of like,
like I go back to my analogy before
and I'd like to get your thoughts on an analogy.
And I was, I actually thought of this analogy
when I was, not this analogy,
but a question when I was arguing with a distant relative
that came over to a house and said,
Michelle Obama's a boy.
And I was like, oh God,
like it was Q and non-levels of conspiracy.
And we got into the whole conversation.
Yeah, it's ridiculous.
And I said, and they said, I was a tomboy growing up.
I said, what do you mean there?
What do you mean by tomboy?
What does that mean to you?
Like, what are you talking about?
What's the boy there?
And like, and they couldn't get the question,
but I was trying to get to the point.
It was like, when they said tomboy,
they're ascribing the masculine characteristics
of what a boy is in that society.
So when someone's like growing up
and they like more identify with that, that certain thing.
So not necessarily saying tomboy is like trans or anything.
I'm not, that's not even the same realm
of what I'm talking about.
But it's like, imagine someone growing up and they're like,
I feel as though I am a boy rather than a girl.
And that's, that's all it is.
That's, it's just a, it's a, it's a,
it's the, the fact of how people feel.
And that's what I would say, gender is to a 10 year old.
I think that's good.
I think if I were to adapt kind of something
that Katie Montgomery has said on our show a lot of times,
if I were to take, you know,
if I'm talking to a 10 year old boy,
if I were to take you and force you to wear dresses
and play with, take away all your toys
and only give you dolls and tell you all your friends
have to be girls, how would you feel?
Would it feel good to you or would it feel wrong?
Cause that's how I felt growing up.
Like I wanted to take dance lessons with my cousin.
I wanted to do, you know, play house with the girls.
And for a little bit of time when I was really young,
I was kind of allowed to get away with that.
But then I got old enough to where my dad expected me
to start playing sports.
And so I was forced to play sports.
I was forced to go ice fishing with him in the winter.
I was forced to do all these super masculine things
that I hated that did not represent me, how I felt at all.
I think that's kind of a way that somebody can,
I don't know if it necessarily represents gender,
but it is how someone can be aware
of what their gender is.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And so, so when you contrast that with biological sex,
you have biological sex, which is like very simply put,
it's like, like you said, it's like, you know,
what you said, a modal, you used a word like it's like-
Dimodal distribution.
Dimodal distribution of like characteristics
that we typically find.
And there are people that fall all over the spectrum,
but it's usually, you know, in two distinct areas.
Then we have gender, which is how people kind of feel about
and how they identify with the world.
So that's pretty simple, right?
This is what I mean by it seemed quite simple.
And these are facts.
These aren't like, there's no, there's no wokeness here.
There's no magic here.
There's no like, you know, anything.
So then going on from those two things is like,
so what is transgender?
So could you describe what transgender is
with those, like a 10 year old?
Yeah.
So to be trans is just to be aware
that your gender identity is different
from what people would expect given your sex.
So I was assigned male at birth.
People expected that because I was male
that I was going to be a boy and I was a girl.
That's just how, I don't know how else
to explain that more simply.
Like, yeah, I'm a little too 10 year old.
I guess that's my, that's how I would do it.
That's fantastic.
And I think that's as simple as it actually is.
Like you could clip that whole last minute
and go, that's actually just what the whole conversation is.
But the media and Matt Walsh, Jordan Peterson
and all the like people on both sides,
like there was extremism on both sides
have made it into like this huge like issue
where, you know, people are more concerned
about drag queens teaching their kids
than kids getting shot up in schools or, you know,
and it's absolutely bizarre.
You know, like people are worried about, you know,
transgender identifying people coming into bathrooms
and but they let their kids go to church
or to religious institutions where they're considerably
more likely to get sexually abused.
Yeah.
It makes me, I also don't think, you know,
do you know that at the streamer,
you probably, a lot of people don't like him.
Do you know Destiny, the streamer?
I know Destiny, unfortunately.
I know Destiny.
So he has this, he has this really great point.
And one of the points he has is he doesn't believe
that conservatives give a shit about any of the grooming kids
or anything like that, like at all.
He doesn't care, because he said,
because if it was true that that was the case,
he's like, where was the outrage when like all the Honey Boo Boo
like beauty pageants was going around?
Where was the outrage on all that?
Where was the outrage with, you know,
taking young boys to Hooters and like getting a photo?
There's no outrage.
No one gave a shit at all.
Maybe there was a few fringe people voicing their concerns,
but no one cared.
But as soon as it has something to do
with the LGBT community,
all of a sudden it's like the worst thing imaginable.
So he says, he says he doesn't believe
that people actually give a shit about that.
No, they're just dog whistling for their community.
Yeah, no, I think that's probably true.
Yeah, I mean, I think at the same time,
they wouldn't consider any of that stuff grooming.
I think they genuinely think that's just, that's normal.
And I think part of the issue is that they have so thoroughly
devalued the word grooming
that they don't actually know what it means anymore.
It's just like communist.
Like it's just the thing I don't like is what groomer is.
And they know that groomer is like the thing I don't like,
plus probably a little gay.
Like that's like the extent of how their conception of it.
But yeah, no, I think, I mean, I have,
I won't share too many thoughts about destiny,
but I think he has good points sometimes.
Yeah, sometimes he like,
I'm not like a big stan for destiny or anything.
I watch a lot of his content
because I find what he talks about is really interesting
and don't agree with him with everything, of course.
But some of the conversations you have are pretty funny,
like some of his debates and stuff.
But I know, I definitely know that he has some problems,
especially with writing the fence, I guess,
between like left and right with some of these perspectives.
He's got horrible tastes on trans care for minors,
where like, so for me, like something I've heard him say
before is that the evidence for trans care for minors
is not there, is pretty much what he said.
I think he says almost exactly like it's not there.
And I would concede that the evidence
for trans healthcare in general is not at the place
that it is for say like diabetes or cancer treatment,
but it's pretty much square on par with where it is
for every other psychological state of being
that we consider something that could get psychological
like could the evidence be stronger?
Absolutely, I always support more harder evidence.
However, when it comes to medicine and skepticism,
the way we decide what care we give
is we evaluate the evidence,
we do a cost benefit analysis,
and then we take the best option of those that exist.
Now, could there potentially hypothetically
in the future arise some sort of treatment method
that is superior to the hormone blocker?
Like, so right now the current standards of treatment,
usually it's social transition
until you enter tanner stage two of puberty,
which is usually around like 12,
then you do puberty blockers for about two years.
After two years, having no sexual hormones in your body
does result in like bone density loss
and potential issues with brain development.
That's why that's not in the standards of care
to go longer than two years on that,
you would then go on to either reduce the dose
of the hormone blockers
and just let your endogenous hormones come in,
or you would do the cross-sex hormone at that point.
And yeah, like the evidence could be stronger,
but science and medicine is about taking the best evidence
that we have and going with that path.
And currently, that is what the evidence supports.
Would I like to see stronger evidence?
Absolutely, but yeah, I've heard him
give some really stupid takes about like,
it's not there and I'm like, it's not where, it's not there.
I've heard him say like,
I swear I've heard him say the opposite,
where he's like, do you want the state to like step in
and like, and walk over like, I don't know,
but maybe we've seen, I don't know,
maybe we've seen, I'll have to, I'll look,
I'm like, honestly, like I said, I'm not like that.
Destiny likes to phrase things in an inflammatory way
because it gets him attention, is what I think.
Yeah, maybe.
He also always walks back everything that he says
on social media, on his actual stream.
He's like, oh, he's like a master shady fucking
with his words.
Yeah.
Very, very, very, he's like, give credit where credit is due.
He's able to provoke people on Twitter enough
to get them into a conversation on his channel.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, there's, I lost my chain of thought.
What was I going to say?
Oh, this is where the alcohol takes too much from an effect.
Yeah.
Oh, darn.
Oh, no, it was a really good, it was so,
it was so profound that everyone was going to be blown away.
Oh no, I'm like pre-emptively blown away.
Yeah, yeah, everyone would have subscribed.
Everyone would have subscribed.
They would have all gone like,
they would have sign up to their mom's account
and like subscribe.
Oh, darn, it's really, really annoying me that I forgot.
Oh, okay.
Yes, I remember what I was saying.
Actually, this wasn't the profound thing.
So I still subscribe,
but this is something that I thought of.
It was what I was thinking of,
but it's not that profound.
Now I remember it.
But it's funny how they talk about like,
conservatives will talk about,
and sorry, everyone want to get political,
but conservatives of the right or the right
will talk about the idea that it's like irreversible damage.
Like you were just mentioning.
And like you point out that it's kind of not,
but what is really funny is the conservative
or the the alt-right community are really big
on circumcision, right?
Which is irreversible general mutilation.
Like, but think about that.
Think about how no one like even bats and I,
like everyone's just like,
we had a little boy, Atlas, two things actually.
They go, oh, what are you?
People used to go, oh, what are you having?
I'm like, well, we won't know.
I used to say this to annoy my religious family.
I go, oh, we won't know until well,
that he's old enough to tell us,
they're old enough to tell us, right?
And they'll be like, and then everyone will go like, oh!
It's just a way to trigger everyone.
But yeah, a lot of Atlas people will say,
I'm like, oh, you're gonna get him circumcised.
And I was just like, why, that's such a weird,
like it's kind of common in America.
Like it's not very common in Australia.
I think a circumcised penis
probably looks more aesthetically pleasing.
But, but.
But I think that's only the case
because it's so commonplace in American media.
Like it's not, you know what I mean?
Like, I don't know if it's,
that's like a condition preference,
not like a innate one or anything like that.
Yeah, we're at the part of the stream where, you know,
I guess it must have mostly straight,
I just called a circumcised penis aesthetically pleasing.
Well done, well done.
Everyone, we got there, we got there, everyone.
Yeah, so it's just interesting about that.
I, we're getting to, we're getting,
we've been talking for an hour and a half.
I do want to get to some super chat,
some questions, but I just want to quickly touch
on a few questions that you mentioned before
that I want to kind of like dive into a little bit.
Transsexual, so there's a few things,
I don't know what a transsexual is.
I know that was, it was,
it used to be like, it used to be like a term people use,
but then also you're in the adult entertainment industry
or at least you're an adult content creator,
which by the way, I swear and only got fired
for having your Twitter feed up on my like desktop
and then like some, some, you know, some, some,
let me see, what's the word?
I had a, not safe for work.
Oh, it was very not safe for me.
Is that math?
Yeah, that's math, he's bringing me a steak.
I told him to bring me the one who had baby.
Oh, hi Matt.
Tell me how you're doing.
David's too high.
We had a, apparently a rat-catash fee while I was gone,
but yeah, so I just wanted to show, this is Blossom.
She, we just had, her baby's just hatched
and she's back to eating and she looks great.
She's super healthy and she's so beautiful.
She is a black pastel mahogany banana ball python.
You can see all these crackles.
Whoa, look at the dots, yes.
Those are right from her banana,
but she is a sweet girl, a great girl.
Do they bite much?
Like, do you get bitten much by your snakes
or is it like rare?
I've handled, so we, like I said, we have like 60 snakes.
I've, we handle them all multiple times a week.
So like hundreds of interactions every week.
I've been bitten once by a ball python
and I've been bitten, not even really an actual bite
once by a corn snake, but no, they almost,
they'll bluff strike at you where they'll like,
they'll lunge at you, like they're about to bite,
but they don't actually open their mouth.
They're just trying to scare you away.
They're trying to tell you to back, fuck off.
Like a headbutt kind of thing.
Yeah.
Wow.
What?
I could bring in a snake that would pretty much
guarantee to bite you.
No, Chani can stay right where she is.
She's our snake that is bitey.
Thank you.
I just wanted to show her off, she's so beautiful.
That's awesome.
I'll say Matt's been on deep rings.
Matt's been on deep rings everyone.
Hey.
Matt, no, I've been talking about coming on for ages.
It's like, he's finally made it.
He's awesome.
He'll get there.
He'll get there.
Apparently he had a whole rat catastrophe,
but sorry, let's get back to what you were saying.
Yeah.
First of all, thank you for showing the snake.
That's awesome.
Again, it makes me want to get a snake,
but I'm just waiting for the excitement to die down
to see if it's the last,
it's something I want to commit to
because it's obviously pet, so you want to keep them.
So, yeah, you're an adult content creator.
So, I know that big in the naming conventions in porn
haven't always been, you know, it'd be like,
come dumpsters five or Siemens Slipers 11 or whatever.
It's like the words for their titles are like fucked.
Or even the fact that there's like an interracial element
in porn categories feels funny to me.
I'm like, why is this a kink?
Like, I get it.
Some people might have it,
but it's like, it feels a little racist almost, like,
but anyway, so there's the term trannies, right?
Is that a derogatory term
or is that like, that's a term that's used in porn?
Yeah.
TS girls or like...
So, training would be a slur.
I would say TS is like,
it's technically short for transsexual,
but in porn, it's basically a category,
as a way to say trans.
I think the most socially appropriate way
that everyone understands is trans.
You should just say trans, not transgender,
not transsexual, just trans.
Everyone knows what that means.
It conveys exactly the information that's necessary.
I would say, yeah, saying out,
I mean, I don't even want to like say it again
because I don't want to get your chance
of your YouTube getting in trouble or whatever.
Like, I would say tranny is a slur.
Okay.
I definitely, I mean, I'd say I'm as a joke
because I think it's funny
because mostly I like doing it to like Matt
or like my friends and like kind of being like,
say it, fucking say it,
because I know they won't and it's funny
because it's like, I'm like, haha,
I've got the one thing I have power over
the oppressive glass on, making them say this slur.
But yeah, I think, so porn categories are a little shitty.
A company that I did my first pro shoot
with a couple of months ago, Groobie,
they're actually kind of were like the pioneers in,
well, I should give the credit to Chelsea.
I'm forgetting her name.
It's Chelsea something.
She was an individual who really fought for Chelsea Poe
who fought for proper language in the porn industry.
And the first one to really adopt that wholeheartedly
was groobie.com.
I probably shouldn't say the actual website
again, I don't want to get anything in trouble,
but they have like a huge host of websites
that are under them.
And they've been really good about making sure
that their categorization is both catering
to the demographic that would buy that content,
which means you kind of have to give in a little bit
to that, but also trying to make it
as acceptable as possible.
And the producers that I've worked with
in that specific company were outstanding
on the respect and knowledge of things
and way to be kind and understanding in the process.
So definitely like huge props to that company in particular.
Yeah, there's definitely a lot of language in it.
That's still a little,
that's not really like socially acceptable.
I love, I love, love, love, love when porn companies get
like, do like, good things.
Like, I know that like, what are good things?
I can't, I'm losing my words,
but like when Pornhub, I mean, this could have been,
this was a marketing strategy,
but it was also fucking awesome that they did this,
but they offered like Pornhub,
free Pornhub premium accounts to everyone
when COVID lockdown was happening.
So it was like, stay home and masturbate.
And I was like, yeah, hell yeah.
They did some, they like, there's companies that do like
research into like what it's like healthy,
like amounts of porn people should watch
or what type of porn is like, can lead to,
or not lead to, but like is probably shouldn't be promoted
in our algorithm and things like that.
Like, and I'm like, that's all, that's fine.
It's so, it's just so weird to see like, you know,
or like, you know, companies going environmental,
environmentally friendly and stuff like cup and neutral.
So you're like, this is just, it's weird to see
what I always considered like it's like an evil,
like when I was a Christian,
I used to pray against the adult shop in Tawanton.
And then it shut down and I'm like, our prayers work,
but it was just a research and they're actually growing
bigger and I was like, oh no, our prayers didn't work.
Oh, we got to go pray again.
But like, you know, I used to think it was like socially evil,
but like now I'm like, well, you know,
like people in Drupal and it's like fantastic,
like great that they're doing good.
You know, in some, you know, and then like you said that,
like let's have more inclusive language and I'm like, great.
It's interesting, right?
Cause I think we all kind of grew up with this notion
that even if you weren't a super Christian,
probably you had some perception of porn
as like degenerate or bad for society or whatever.
But really the people who are in,
who have been producing porn,
who have been into porn are going to be people
who were sort of counterculture to begin with.
And that's kind of led to a industry that is,
now I want to be super clear that there is a lot of problems
in the industry still, so many,
but that being said, a lot of the individual actors
within the community as particularly the actual actors
are very progressive and they have pushed
for a really strong like, you know,
even though there is still a lot of like,
treat me like an object mentality
and some of the content itself,
they pushed for like, yes, that is like the things
that I'm asking to be called, but that is all consensual.
Like I'm asking to be called those things.
I want that sort of like that experience
and I want you guys to know
that it is like a consensual thing.
I think that's like one, I mean, like, I don't know,
that's, I've always been very kinky and sexual.
I mean, I had a part of a portion of my life
that we didn't talk about and probably for good reason
is that I had some, my relationship with sex
was kind of fucked up from my childhood.
And so I had a little bit of a sexual deviancy era
in my life that included like some sex clubs and stuff.
And I really feel like I-
Next time on Dave Trinks.
I feel like I've really kind of grown as a person
and I just like, I don't know, I like,
I like the liberation of sex, you know,
and being able to talk about like, yeah,
you can call me like a come downster,
but like on my terms, you know, not as a matter of like,
that's the only way you get clicks
is by making me dehumanize.
Like I want to be dehumanized,
because I asked you to.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, no, and that's totally,
that totally makes sense.
And I really, I'm a purveyor of adult cinema.
I prefer like a Shencubes, I'm a critic of the cinema.
I like the camera angles on the camera.
No, but you know, and I do appreciate it at the end
where like it might be like a bit more of a kinky scene
or it might be a bit more, where is this podcast going?
But anyway, it might be a bit more of a kinky scene,
a bit more like aggressive or a bit more,
I guess, like you're saying,
like using derogatory words or like phrases
or the way they treat each other.
At the end, they'll have like a sitting on the couch
and I'll be like, oh, like, so how do you,
how do you feel about this?
Oh, I felt good, like I felt comfortable, you know,
and it's like a, the dialogue happens beforehand.
And I think it's kink.com or something.
They like, I shouldn't be, again,
yeah, maybe we shouldn't be saying these things,
but there's like websites where like,
they'll have a conversation between,
what do you come for with, what do you not come for with?
This is what I want to do.
Oh, I'm excited to do that.
Cool, and then they'll do it
and then afterwards they'll talk about the experience.
And it's like, that seems like a responsible way
to engage if you are into that kind of stuff,
to engage in that kind of material.
Yeah, I think there's been some recent movements.
There is a like huge cancel porn hub movement on Twitter
that is actually funded by,
the actually the documentary that was on Netflix recently
does a great job going into it in depth,
but is really funded by a fundamental,
like evangelical organization at its roots.
And they will use these really compelling stories
that will get liberals on board
where like children were abused or whatever.
And that's important.
That should not happen.
And that is egregious, which is why I was like,
I want to be clear that there are bad things
that happen in the industry
and that needs to be called out.
However, I think the industry has been moving
in a direction of like really caring deeply
about those kinds of processes
and like really going through,
making sure that like consent is a big part of everything.
Like something I loved about the groups that I worked with
was like, like the producer at one of the sets was like,
can I move, is it okay if I move your phone over here?
And I'm like, dude, you're asking for consent
to move my phone.
Like you can just move my phone.
I promise it's not that big of a deal.
Like, and I'm not going to pretend that consent is like
at the forefront of every producer set,
but the ones that I've worked on, it has been.
And I've been really lucky to do mostly
self-produced stuff where I'm working
with individual creators.
And that's been great too.
Cause you know, that puts all the power in our hands
and what we want to do and what we want to make
rather than necessarily like being at the behest
of some like producer or agent or something like that.
So yeah, it's a really cool part of the industry.
And I'm not as, I would love to have more time to be in that
but as you, you saw the snake, we have 60 of them.
All of my free time goes to animals.
So I don't have as much time as I want,
but I would do more if I could.
I do remember you saying that.
Well, your link tree is in the comments.
So people can go and check it out.
You've got an Instagram where,
cause Twitter is being a bit funny lately.
So if you want to go follow, I'm on Twitter,
I'm sorry, on Instagram, go check out the Instagram
and of course call the lion is always there.
The lion, great, absolutely great show.
Fantastic.
Let's get into some questions as we wrap up.
I said we weren't going to go over two hours.
So let's do this.
First of all, Jimmy Snow, the man, the myth, the legend.
First of all, actually not even Jimmy Snow.
We'll solve this comment.
Thank you.
Five pounds, a pound of you.
Go fuck yourself, Jimmy.
So yeah, good work.
And Jimmy Snow comes in, you know, it's funny.
Actually, let me just say this.
Jimmy, I know that Jimmy hates compliments.
So as a way of me saying, go fuck yourself, Jimmy,
every time on Twitter, I just like, say, Jimmy,
you're the best man.
Like, you're such an inspiration to like,
and I like, I really over the top confident him.
And he, he doesn't reply.
So I know he will like it.
So I know he fucking hates it.
Oh yeah.
City of chuckling to myself like, ha, ha, ha.
He genuinely hates it.
We were at a, at the meeting after the fundraiser
we did recently and I was like,
genuinely complimenting him
because he did so much to make it happen.
And he was like, I'm so uncomfortable.
You guys know I hate this.
And I'm like, oh my God, get over it.
Show is best in order.
Well, obviously, Takas number one,
Transatlantic Colin show, number one show on the line.
You guys got to call in if you have any questions
about anything related to trans issues,
we will be happy to talk to you.
I would say probably the Sunday show is my number two.
I mean, I think it's just the classic, you know,
Sunday morning rather than going to church,
you get to listen to some atheists debates.
That's great.
I think three is probably the hang up for me
because I like to have the more political conversations
and obviously I love Matt and I love that.
That's his passion project.
I think probably Skeptok would be next
because I mean, the conversations with Forrest and Erica
really have rocketed the Skeptok to the top.
I mean, Forrest and Erica are such a power duo,
although they're not on every week by far.
It is a pretty awesome duo.
And then I would, as much, I love Dave Warnock to pieces.
He is a gem for the atheist community
and as like a personal friend,
he is such an amazing person, probably him.
And then hostility,
because I don't know, I haven't been a part of hostility
really, I haven't seen many episodes of hostility.
I haven't produced many episodes of hostility.
Hostility is on the bottom, but that would be my ranking.
I can't do all the coworkers.
I have way too many hosts and co-hosts online.
Jimmy's on the bottom, though, that's for sure.
That's great.
He spoke very highly of you, so that's not it.
We are good friends.
Despite all the jokes, Jimmy also, like Katie and I,
is on the love language of bullying each other for friendship.
But no, genuinely, Jimmy is one of the most hardworking
people I've ever met to his detriment, often.
Yeah, he's a bit of a psychopath.
I've kind of got the vibe of-
Yeah, he needs to stop, but I get why he does it.
We have almost identically opposite philosophies on life
I found out where he's like,
I'm like, I don't want to be on the treadmill.
I hate feeling come on the treadmill.
It's the only time I'm on the bottom and like, that's it.
Whereas he's like, I'm working all the time,
so I'm not on the treadmill eventually.
And I'm like, I get that, but I just,
ah, I can't wrestle with that.
Yeah, he needs to be institutionalized,
but on a desert island with a coconut
and massages and stuff.
He needs to grab and reinforce him to-
But I get the feeling, though, that,
and Jimmy can comment, he's in the chat now,
can comment that, he probably would hate that.
You love a vacation for the first couple of days,
but if you're not working on like a project or something,
I feel very much myself anyway that I get like depressed
and like, what are we doing?
Like, what's the next thing?
But I'm working with a therapist to deal with that actually.
I think that's fair, but yeah,
no, I definitely think, I love Jimmy Durley.
He definitely needs to take a proper break for himself.
I'm sure he's like, very ill in bed right now,
but watching this while also working at the same time,
it's like, Jimmy, fucking go to sleep or chill, what the fuck?
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Well, I have some questions for you,
but just quickly, just shout out.
A couple of new episodes coming up.
We have the Bible from Babylon,
the Bible's Roots with Professor Matthew Munger.
We're talking about like the inspiration from Babylon
for Genesis, which will be really cool.
And then we have Islam apologetics,
the failure of Islam apologics with New York Khan,
Holy Humanist.
If you like content like this,
make sure you subscribe to this channel
and send these videos to your fundamentalist auntie.
She'll love them, I'm telling you.
So that's it.
Hell yeah.
Is that Daniel Hikikachu on the thumbnail there?
What a fucking clown.
Oh dude, so he, that,
so I used him because when he debated Nuria Khan,
he blurred her face in the cover photo.
And I was like, you fucking piece of shit.
And he did that partly because she wasn't wearing a hijab,
but also because he was being a dickhead.
So I was like, I'm getting him back.
So he has nothing to do with the fact,
except for the fact that he said that maybe three year olds
should be able to get married or married off by their parents.
Besides the fact that he said that,
he's debate with inspiring philosophy.
I was like, okay, let's let it all,
let's chuck him in there as a big fuck you to fuck you to him.
Cause yeah.
Yeah, he's such a piece of shit.
His whole debate on defending child marriage
is the most disgusting, vile, steaming pile
of shit I've ever seen in my life.
Like the dregs of society is Daniel Hikikachu.
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
Okay, so you have, I normally ask a bunch of like
questions about God and stuff,
but I'm gonna flip it a little bit
because I think you're, like people have said,
and I'll share this at the very end in the outro,
but people have been commenting that you're such an inspiration,
blaze by fire, so it seems.
So, you know, a lot of people,
there might be people watching this now
who are going through gender dysphoria
and they might be struggling
or they might know someone who is.
So what would you suggest to someone who may be young
or maybe be experiencing gender dysphoria?
What advice would you give to them?
I would say that gender dysphoria is a thing
that just happens, we don't know why,
but it is a thing that we've seen time and time again,
happens to people sometimes for some reason
and the evidence clearly shows time and time and time again
that the best thing for gender dysphoria
is for people to transition.
This is just what the facts and the evidence show.
The best way to improve your quality of life
to reduce your risk of suicide and depression
and suicidality, your best way to feel integrated
into your community is to transition.
Whether that means for you socially or medically,
whatever that means, transition is just the objectively,
the most scientifically based way
to go about helping you alleviate your dysphoria.
And while definitely our society has a lot of issues
around gender identity and sex
and some of that may be weighing on you,
it is imperative for you to do the work internally
to accept and love yourself and to understand
that if somebody else thinks that you're a freak show
or if you're a trans woman, that you're really a man,
that's okay for them to think that.
People can be wrong, people are allowed to be wrong
and as shitty as it makes you feel,
that's just unfortunately the burden
of being a minority in a society
and the best thing for you to do
is listen to what you feel inside,
trust the evidence and your doctor
and get the care that's right for you.
And yeah.
What would you say to yourself if you go back in time
to maybe when you're thinking about de-construct,
de-construct, my brain, de-transitioning,
that's the word, thank you.
I would say that I know you think
that this is going to be easier,
that this is somehow going to make the transition go away
that you're gonna be able to like bury that
and just if it's gonna be hard either way
is kind of your mindset right now,
but the reality is that denying the facts
about who you are is going to be infinitely more damaging
than the bigotry that people will put upon you.
One is other people doing it to you
because they don't understand,
the other is you doing it to yourself
and as far as we're concerned,
because I'm pretty sure you thought this back in the day too,
there is no afterlife.
This is the one shot you've got at it.
So I urge you to love yourself more
and do it sooner and don't waste time
trying to appease partners or your family,
do what's right for you
and those people will join along the way
if they're good for you
and if they don't join you along the way,
fuck those people.
The people who are good for you
will join your life when it's the right time.
That advice is fantastic
even outside of the conversation parameters.
Like we just grab life by the balls,
like get 60 snakes if you want 60 snakes,
travel the world if you want to travel the world.
This is the one life that we have and I'll say this,
like if I'm going to be very pedantic,
this is the only guaranteed life that we have
and let's help each other, let's love each other,
let's enjoy every day, hug your relatives,
bring them over for barbecue,
your friends and family if you have them
and just appreciate what we have
because I think Arden is the spot on there.
Thank you, Arden, so much for coming on.
I really, we went back and forth a little bit
trying to set up dates for this
and I'm so glad it's been everything I hoped it would be.
So thank you for coming on.
Yeah, this was awesome.
I had a great time.
Thank you so much for having me.
Well, everyone, I'll see you guys in a few days
for Matthew Monger's episode and we'll keep thinking deep.
I don't actually have a cat phrase, I just...
Bye.
Cat phrase.
See you guys, bye.
Okay.
