...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
Welcome to Deep Drinks Podcast, where the drinks are deep and the conversations are deeper.
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
and we have a conversation about a deep topic
over their drink of choice.
So the drink kind of sets the tone.
Sometimes people bring alcohol, sometimes they don't.
It's always a bit of fun.
Before we go any further,
I just wanted to quickly share my screen.
So last, through the week,
I interviewed someone from Kiev,
Anna from Kiev,
who we're trying to raise money
to help her in her volunteering efforts.
So as you can see, she's a Ukrainian volunteer.
And in the middle of us talking,
there was an airstrike that happened.
And the building near her was about to be bombed.
And as you can see, it was a bit of a panic.
But yeah, it ended up being okay.
She ended up just going to the corridor,
which is the safest spot.
But she is trying to raise money.
And so if you go to that, go to that and watch that episode.
And if you feel like donating, you can.
My mother just told me she's donating today,
which is really cool.
And we also have some merch on there if you're interested.
Secondly, we have some upcoming episodes
for Deep Drinks podcast.
Next week, we have Tate Hoskins,
Hoskins who was exercised for being gay
when he was younger.
So he's still gay now for the alert,
but that's gonna be an interesting conversation.
He's got like a million subscribers on TikTok
or a million followers over his social network.
And then we also have a conversation
we've read at Nice Wonder about street epistemology.
So it'll be a fun one on the following week after that.
So if you like content like this,
make sure you subscribe.
Cause when we get to a thousand subscribers,
we're doing a six hour charity stream
where we'll be having all sorts of fun
and raising money for charity.
Thank you everyone for coming out.
And if you like content like this as well,
and you wanna listen to it,
we have a, we're on podcasting app
so you can listen to us on the way to work.
So I think that is everything I wanted to touch up,
except for if you have any questions
and feel free to shoot them in the conversation
as we're going,
make sure you at me or at Michael in the chat
so that we can know which questions to answer.
I hope as well that there are some tough questions for me
cause obviously I'm presenting my worldview
that's probably going to be different to Michael's
and it'd be good if we can get some pushbacks
so that we can both kind of grow from this conversation.
With that said, I wanna introduce Michael.
Michael Jones is the founder and director
of Inspiring Philosophy,
a non-profit Christian organization
with a goal of spreading
and defending the message of Jesus.
Michael just finished his masters in philosophy
and he might be going on to do some stuff further.
We might hear about it today, we might not.
Michael is a friend of the show
appearing on the second ever episode
of Deep Drinks podcast.
And for the long-time listeners,
they would know that I'm always pointing Christians,
especially Christians who are struggling with their faith
and don't wanna struggle with their faith to Michael's stuff.
Not because I think Michael is right,
but because I think because as far as apologists go,
I think he's the least wrong.
So as you can tell,
I'm hoping for some fun banter
as we discuss topics of this magnitude.
Welcome, Michael Jones.
Thank you, no pressure on sending people away,
I hope I don't screw them up.
So yeah, this is gonna be a good one.
You're a bit sick, aren't you, Michael?
Yeah, I've been sick all week
and I thought I was getting better,
but I think it may have just been rage
from the past couple of days
and now I'm like calming down.
I've been very angry as of late.
So you've been angry, why is that?
Because of Lord of the Rings, right?
I am like a diehard Tolkien fan
to the point where I have picked up books
called Lord of the Rings and Philosophy
to read for pleasure and that rings of power.
The Amazon show came out and I was just pulling my hair out
because it's just a bastardization
of everything Tolkien stood for and loved
and I hate the show.
You'd think that he would get someone,
like they would get experts in to fact check
their script and stuff
or at least point in the right direction.
Do you have a consensus view?
Do you have a consensus view on Tolkien's philosophy
or not really?
No, I probably do.
I mean, if you read like the book
Lord of the Rings and Philosophy,
it's like each chapter has a different author
and they're all like basically saying,
like this guy is just writing like a Christian fantasy world.
Basically.
Is that why my church allowed Lord of the Rings
but not Harry Potter?
Probably, yeah.
Which I know they both have witches and wizards and...
I always find funny because like you can't have Harry Potter
because there's no witchcraft in it,
but like Aragorn in Lord of the Rings
literally goes and does like basically necromancy.
Like it's like, I'm sorry, what?
Yeah.
Yeah, that was always a head scratch for me
because we'd actually show clips of Lord of the Rings
and church like the Helms Deep
and Jesus slash Gandalf comes at the end.
Ah, you know, anyway.
So before we get started, what are we drinking, Michael?
The Dolby Me 15.
I am so excited.
This is one of my favorite whiskies, Tom from the chat.
He actually bought this bottle for me.
Yeah.
Oh, you have people buy whiskey?
My fault, you've not me any whiskey.
Well, he didn't, it wasn't a follow.
He's one of my best friends.
It was for a Christmas party.
So he came to our house and he bought it with a few friends.
So yeah.
Just saying followers if you really want to get my attention.
Exactly.
So we're discussing the problem of evil,
which when I was a Christian,
I didn't think it was a problem at all.
I thought that everything made sense.
The wages of sin were death, sin into the world.
That's why there's death and destruction, et cetera, et cetera.
And then I read Bart Ehrman's book, God's Problem.
That was like, okay, there's some interesting points there.
It wasn't like mind altering or anything.
But then the more and more I thought about it,
there's some things that kind of popped out to me
and became an issue.
So what I thought we would do is we would just bounce off
each other a little bit and just discuss it.
Because you've obviously thought about it
probably way more than me.
You've got two videos on it, which by the way,
everyone go check out those videos or awesome videos.
But I thought we could start by,
I'm going to read positive question
that was given to Pastor Robert Bell
before he was kicked out of the church.
So he went on the talk show to discuss his book
and it was just after the Japanese earthquake.
And I've written this down.
When Pastor Robert Bell was interviewed
in the wake of Japan's 2011 earthquake and tsunami
resulting in 15,899 deaths,
the interviewer asked Pastor Bell,
which of these is true?
Either God is all powerful,
but he doesn't care about the people of Japan
and therefore their suffering.
Or he does care about the people of Japan,
but he's not all powerful.
So I thought we could start there.
What are your thoughts on that?
Yeah, so this is more like an issue
around the problem of suffering
because you don't have like, you know,
human freedom involved in this.
This is some sort of earthquake
or what you said, tsunami, correct?
Yeah, tsunami.
Yeah, that's quick.
Yeah, so it's like,
it's like, so why does these type of things happen?
And there's all sorts of reasons we can give
to sort of go into this type of thing.
What one thing I like to remind people though
is like, when you're going to ask a pastor
like Rob Bell, who's a Christian,
a question like this,
you have to take into account the full Christian worldview.
And this is something I lay out in my video
on suffering, which is like, okay,
so the full Christian worldview
also posits that there is an afterlife.
So these people don't necessarily
go out of existence per se.
They don't necessarily just, you know, end life there.
And so we need to think of it from that perspective as well.
So it's not so much decided that it's sort of like
their end of the existence.
It's just sort of like a continuation on from existence.
I use the analogy of like raising children.
So we all know children often feel like
what we're doing to them can be like the end of the world.
And we realize it's just part of the growing process.
These are things they sort of go through
to sort of mature, to get older.
We allow certain things to happen to them
because we realize they have to sort of grow
into a more mature person,
which then raises the question,
what are God's motives here?
So when people bring up instances of suffering
and say, if God is all good, why does he allow suffering?
It seems to me they're implicitly
suggesting a normative theory of ethics
that would be consequentialism or utilitarianism.
The idea that goodness is creating more happiness
and badness would be creating more suffering.
The problem is, is that that's just one view
of normative ethics.
Suppose that maybe the actual view of ethics
would be something like deontology or virtue ethics.
In that sense, God's goal is not so much
to reduce suffering and create more happiness,
but to create more virtue, to create more people
that are virtuous, that are mature,
that grow from certain experiences that go through.
And so that's the case.
God very much well may in his system understand
that suffering needs to be allowed
to create more virtuous Asians,
to create more mature individuals that use reason
that understand more about life than they would if they didn't.
It's like this.
It's like, what would be better to live as a teletubby
or to live as Frodo from Lord of the Rings?
Well, a teletubby, as the children show, they're ignorant.
They don't understand, they don't grow.
We would say that those type of characters are good per se,
but they're not triumphant.
They're not glorious creatures.
They're just ignorant, innocent.
They don't really advance.
We would say someone like Frodo from Lord of the Rings
is more interesting because of the suffering he went through.
He became a triumphant creature that has matured
and grew into something far better
than without the suffering there.
So the argument I wasted when I lay out in the video
is that God can very well allow suffering
if his normative ethics system that he operates with
is more of a virtue ethical or a deontological system.
So when people bring up instances of suffering,
my first answer is, well, what is the underlying normative view here?
We need to define goodness.
We need to define badness.
Because once if we define goodness
and it's not just promoting happiness,
so the greatest number of people,
then we need to reevaluate of allowing suffering
as necessarily instrumentally bad.
Yeah, I was thinking it was going to go down this route
because it gets so fundamental, right?
But first of all, can we please keep up
the Lord of the Rings references throughout this conversation?
Because that is amazing.
I absolutely will, because it's so fresh on my mind.
All week I've been reading Tolkien's letters
because I'm working on a video
that's going to be on the Lord of the Rings
will come out Friday on his philosophy.
So it's all there right now.
Awesome.
So if we were to rephrase this right then,
so we've got two premises or two points that he brought up.
Either God is all powerful, but he doesn't care
about the people of Japan, or he's not all powerful, right?
But he does care.
So we could maybe, I think, is what you're saying,
correct me if I'm wrong, that God is all powerful,
but we would change the word from he doesn't care to,
he doesn't find it important.
He's got a larger goal in mind, I guess, to do stuff.
I would say he cares,
but he cares about something more important.
Right, right, okay.
So I mean, I told this story a couple of weeks ago in,
and I don't know if this will fit
with your version of Christianity,
but as you know, I was a Pentecostal youth pastor,
so we believed in healing, speaking in tongues,
I did a lot of stuff,
and when my wife and I were recently going through IVF,
we've been going through fertility stuff for five years,
and before we went through IVF, we had a friend
reach out to us and say that there was a prophet
that came to their church and asked and said that
there was someone in someone's family in that church
that was dealing with endometriosis and needed to be healed.
And if they came the following week,
when this prophet was coming, they were going to be healed,
and they were going to get healed from this, right?
Now, I don't believe in God anymore,
but this actually caused me a lot of distress
because we were so desperate and it was so hard for us
that we were like, it put us back
into the old way of thinking,
like it was like a magical way of thinking,
and something that helped me out of that actually
was realizing that I don't know if I would want God to do that.
So if God had the power through this prophet,
I just want to get your thoughts on this,
to heal my wife of endometriosis,
then please use God, use your powers to stop that little girl
from being raped or that child from starving
or that mother with cancer, like do something else.
We can go through the medical system
and we can get it treated
and it's got a very high success rate,
but it's very hard and expensive.
But if God has the power to do that,
it seemed almost that if God was to heal us,
but then turn a blind eye to a starving child,
that paints God to be a moral monster.
And I don't know if you agree with that,
as you do agree with that.
Well, that's why I take the view.
I don't think, I think miracles are exceptionally rare
and they're always for other purposes.
Like they're for, you know,
they're used in the Bible to reveal God's plan to humanity,
to reveal who he is.
They're not used because they're trying to reduce,
make a utilitarian principle where they reduce,
create more happiness, reduce suffering.
They're used for other means.
I don't think that's God's end goal.
It's to sort of like, well, no, people aren't happy.
I better do some miracles
to make everyone happy down there kind of thing.
Again, this goes back to my understanding
of what I was talking about,
the normative ethical principles that we're operating on.
And yeah, I do believe miracles happen,
but they're exceptionally rare.
And funny enough, when I was reading Tom Holland,
who's an atheist who wrote his book, Dominion,
he said, you know, it's a Christian idea
to be skeptical of these types of claims,
these types of supernatural claims.
This is a Christian heritage thing he was arguing.
And so he was like, you know, looking at the history,
he's making some good points
and we should be skeptical of these things
unless we have sufficient evidence.
So I think miracles are exceptionally rare.
I don't think they're for the means
of just making people happy.
I think they're, if God is going to do them,
they're for other purposes that are going to either egg
and increase virtue, spread his kingdom,
these kinds of things.
So that would put you in odds with 30%
of the US population who are evangelicals, right?
To quote, to quote, Arun Ra, bring it.
I love that you quoted Arun Ra.
Oh, he's just had his 60th birthday.
So happy birthday, Arun.
But yeah, I don't care what 30% of the population,
if the 33rd of the population is wrong, it's wrong.
Like if like frickin like, I don't know, Odin appeared to me.
Okay, I believe Odin is real now.
Most people don't believe Odin is real.
It's not going to change my belief, like.
Well, we touched on the reasons you believe
in the first episode back, you know, last year,
the first time you were on, sorry,
the second episode, Deep Drinks.
And so we won't go too much there,
but so essentially we need to discuss morals,
at least for the problem of suffering, right?
Like ethics.
So I guess what's your issue with the,
and I'll get back to the problem of evil
because I don't think we're going to end up
at a reasonable conclusion going down this other
rabbit hole, but so I'll bring us back eventually.
But just to tap dance our way down the tangent of morals,
what are your moral prescriptions or ideas?
So I'm a virtue ethicist, if that's what you mean,
like my normative ethical system.
So yeah, so my, I wrote,
I mean, this is something I studied a lot
when I was getting my master's,
it's kind of like forced upon me
because there were so many virtue ethicists there,
but I mean, I was already kind of a virtue ethicist
before, but my basic ethical system
is Christian virtue ethics.
It's the idea that we ought to live what is a flourishing life.
We ought to increase virtues.
We ought to try to be more loving, patient, peaceful, kind.
That's the goal of ethics,
to become what Aristotle would have said,
the Fromenos, the virtuous agent
that just knows what the virtue is
and knows how to act because of that.
So sometimes that requires us to not be happy.
So it requires us to be angry.
Like if someone tries to desecrate the grave of Tolkien,
we should be very angry for that
and do everything we can to fight against it.
Sometimes we are required to be sad.
Like the philosopher Bernard Williams
brought up a thought of experiment,
which I love this thought of experiment.
He says like, imagine you are taken captive
by some military leader and he's like,
all right, here's the deal, we'll let you go.
But we also capture these 19 natives
and they were protesting our activities.
If you kill one of them, we'll let the other 18 go.
And you're like, okay, well, obviously the right thing to do
is to kill one of them because you're gonna save 18 lives
because if not, he's gonna kill all of them.
But William says, you should also feel remorse.
You should feel sadness from that.
You should not feel like you did a good
because you killed somebody.
You should feel like you did something bad.
And that's part of ethics.
You should feel remorse for this situation you were put in,
even though you probably made the best possible choice
in there.
So it's this idea that, you know, like sometimes
we were made for a plethora of emotions
and we need to experience plethora of emotions.
Living a flourishing life is more than just being happy.
It's also having a righteous anger,
or having righteous jealousy at times,
being sad, having remorse,
experiencing these types of things.
So it's about being virtuous, living a flourishing life.
That's the point of ethics, it's to become the Frominos.
So is virtue ethics, and I should know this
because I've tried to read,
this book was recommended to me by a philosophy student.
Have you read this book, The Fundamentals of Ethics?
Rue Schaefer-Lando, have I?
Maybe, I think I did a while ago,
but I don't know where it is.
I read a bunch of his books, like when I was studying
metaethics.
Yeah, it's fantastic.
He goes through every moral kind of like major moral theory.
I have this one, I don't know where the other one is,
but yeah.
So do you think that morality is subjective or objective?
I think that morality is subjective or objective.
I guess we can start there.
Small brain, me small brain, you big brain,
you big brain, tell small brain, good.
Don't worry, you make up for it with the beard,
so much bigger beard.
Yeah, so what do you think about morality
with objective or subjective?
So I'm a moral realist like Rue Schaefer-Lando is.
So I do think there are objective moral values and duties.
I would say that objectively,
we should try to live a flourishing life,
and there are only a certain number of ways.
There's not an infinite number of ways.
Like we would not say living as a serial killer
is an objective way to live a good life.
You'd say that's the wrong way to live a flourishing life.
Now there are different ways.
Like my father was a police officer, he flourished.
My mother was a robic instructor, she flourished.
There are different ways to live a flourishing life,
but there was a set limited number of ways
that is objectively the right way to live.
And do you think this objective morality
would exist outside of like socially constructed norms
we have in society?
Like do you think there's a,
like are you like kind of like T-Jump where you point to,
you're like, there's an under,
there's a objective law of the universe
that points to morality?
Yeah, that might be a okay way to say it.
I have to think about it.
That's the way I'd want to word it.
I use this analogy.
I think this comes from Thomas Nagel.
He says, right now there's like an objective,
there's an objective fastest way
for me to get across town.
It will change depending on construction, traffic, light,
but there's always going to be some objective fastest way
to get across town.
Now that's dependent on the existence
of the town being there,
but it still contains objective facts within it.
So we could say that, you know,
with humans existing there are objective facts
about humans that require,
there are only a limited number of ways
to live a flourishing life.
Even though, you know, if humans didn't exist,
those rules would not exist as well,
but we could say that these type of objective laws
are still in existence.
Okay, where do you think those objectives come from?
And I'm just, I'm not trying to tricky, I'm just asking.
So this is where we get into arguments
for God's existence,
because I do think they do come from a God,
but I don't argue like, well, they just have to come from God.
I say, look, okay,
so we think there are objective moral values and duties.
Okay, how does that work?
Because if there are duties for us,
duties can only exist between agents.
You know, my house cannot prescribe me a duty.
You would prescribe me a duty like, you know,
maybe watch your kid for you sometime or something like that.
Duties exist between agents.
So think of also like the moral ideal.
If you're going to think of what the actual objective ideal
is, you're going to think of an agent,
someone who is a Framina,
someone who always does what is right,
knows the proper actions.
So my argument is that when we study the ontology
of objective moral values and duties,
it implies that they themselves
are actually a personal, rational source,
and then we just call that God.
It implies a personality involved
because prescriptions, duties, and ideal
are something that exists between minds
or something that has a mental aspect to it.
So my argument is basically like,
if we accept their objective moral values and duties,
that is itself,
seems that there's some sort of necessary
rational agent itself that would be the grounding
of these things, so to speak.
So I don't say that, you know,
like morality has to come from God's nature.
I just say God is the good.
They're basically like,
we discovered like when water is H2O,
they're basically the same thing,
same kind of thing with my view of objective morality.
If you say there's objective morality,
it's like saying God exists.
Okay.
Okay.
So with the analogy that you used about a town
and the quickest way through town,
let's say Hobbit, Hobbiton,
and the quickest way through Hobbiton, right?
The re-infectant token.
The quickest way to a town or Hobbiton,
but that would change depending on the circumstances.
So is that why, do you think that, for example,
in the Old Testament,
slavery was seen as like a moral,
oh, like ambiguous,
permissible, but now it's not?
Yeah, because my argument is with this is that
God is doing something in the Bible called moral progress.
So the first 11 chapters of Genesis
are basically the degradation of humanity.
They get so far gone that by Genesis 11,
they're in Tower of Babel and so then,
they think God needs food,
they think he needs requirements,
they think he can learn them down.
And so God is now gonna have incremental steps
to get us out of this moral degradation process
we put ourselves in.
So you could say like, it's like picking baby steps.
And Bible kind of admits this, like Matthew 19,
you were given a law of divorce
because your hearts were hard.
First Samuel eight,
I don't think you guys should have a king
as part of our covenant together,
but I'll give you one if you insist,
or like number 22,
where we see that the Israel's like daughters
of this one guy or let them update the law
based on what they see is fitting their circumstances.
True.
Okay.
When I say true, I just mean, okay, I understood.
I don't, I don't.
No, you said I'm right.
I therefore I win.
Ha ha.
Yeah.
Game over.
The whisk is kicking in.
No, so look, it feels too.
Okay, I'm just gonna say what I'm feeling
and you can just, okay.
It feels very tap dancey.
It feels like we're kind of ad hoc,
rationalizing the abhorrent things
that we find in the Bible.
Like I know that you have a,
well, I don't know if this is true,
but that you think this,
but I've had conversations with some people
who keep sending me your videos
when I bring up some of these problems.
So I'm imagining it.
I haven't watched them, but I imagine it.
So like things like, you know,
take the virgin girls for yourself
or to kill all the Amalekites
or whoever they are and kill the infants,
but take, you know, things like that.
People will say, no, that was,
someone I was talking to on Twitter said,
no, that was God using hyperbole, right?
And is that something you subscribe to?
Yeah, well, when it comes to numbers 31,
you'd mentioned take the virgin girls.
I agree with scholars like Robert Alter.
That's not actually a command from God.
That's actually Robert Alter,
which says this is Moses sort of acting on his own,
going above and beyond what God commanded or allowed.
And so it's like an instance with the Patriarch,
with like Abraham trying to sell his wife,
like he's doing something God did not want,
but it's listed as a description of what happened in the past.
Yeah, so, but that, to me, that paints God.
Like once again, I'm not saying this of God
and just this idea to me seems to paint God
as a moral monster.
So God didn't allow Moses into the Promised Land
because he struck the rock with the stick
instead of speaking to it, right?
That was a sin so great that he was not to see
the Promised Land, that God promised him.
But for him to command that he Israelites
to take virgin girls, obviously for marriage, rape,
all that stuff, if that isn't from God,
at least why didn't God punish Moses for that specifically?
That to me, like to me, it's like if I was God,
I could see so many areas of the New Testament,
where I would, even if people's hearts were hardened,
I would say things like don't own people as property
and you know, et cetera, et cetera.
Yeah, I understand where you're coming from.
I think it's, we need to take a perspective though,
it's like it would be really great right now
if Saudi Arabia allowed equal rights for women.
They're not going to though.
So what do we see Western countries encouraging them?
Please just let them drive.
Please just let them, you know,
be able to go outside of the house without a male escort.
Like incremental steps guys, please let's get to a place
where we think you're going to start treating women equally.
We, I would love, I mean, if we start going in there
and saying no, no, no, you're going to treat them equally,
well, they're going to rebel.
They're going to freak out.
They're going to try to cut back on them.
They're going to fight us on that stuff.
But if we work with them to just say, okay,
let's start simple, let women drive.
And then 10 years later, let's let them go out
without a male escort.
Let's let them be able to leave the country on their own.
Like little incremental steps in that we know
is actually a better way to make some sort of changes
along the way.
And that's what we want to see.
So I think God also understands that principle as well.
If that's how we act with countries like Saudi Arabia,
why wouldn't God be doing the same kind of thing
with ancient people who were far more morally degradated
than people are today?
Interesting.
Interesting.
Okay.
Let's run through and look at a few,
if we have any questions,
if anyone has any quick questions.
I don't know why my light keeps like flickering in and out.
It's like my camera keeps like playing with like the set,
like the, the bright.
Oh yeah, I don't know why.
That's, I don't know why either,
but it's not that distracting or anything.
Does anyone got any questions?
Buh, buh, buh, buh.
Some of these are true, some are not.
Okay.
Someone said, what is metaethics?
I don't know if that's a true proper question.
Oh, metaethics.
No, that's a, that metaethics.
Okay, so let me describe ethics.
So there's applied ethics.
There's normative ethics and there's metaethics.
And they all are sort of built on top of one another.
So like applied ethics is like,
how do we operate in a society?
How do we do certain things?
Normative ethics is what we're supposed to do.
So like, are we supposed to make happy people happy?
Are we supposed to make people virtuous?
Are there certain dental logical laws
we're supposed to follow?
So it's about like, what is ethics?
Metaethics is the nature of ethics.
So it's like, okay, so if we understand like,
let's say we pick a virtue ethics,
we'll just say we have decided
that virtue ethics is the way to go.
Now we're interested in what is the nature of ethics?
Is it something that is cognitive or non-cognitive?
Is it relative to a culture,
relative to individuals, is it something objective?
If it's objective, is it beyond nature?
Is it natural?
So applied ethics is like,
what are we gonna do specifically?
Normative ethics is like, what is ethics?
Like, are we supposed to build happiness or virtue
or the ontological systems?
And then beneath that is metaethics.
And that's like, well,
what is the nature of this thing we're talking about?
Okay, okay.
I don't understand, but hopefully other people do.
Like I said.
This is a very, very good book called metaethics.
It's very simple.
And the guy, Andrew Fisher,
actually when I was doing my series on metaethics,
I wrote to him and said,
could you review my videos and help me with it?
He was so helpful.
Like he made me rewrite entire sections of videos,
which was kind of frustrating,
but I was so glad he did.
Because he fixed so many errors I had.
So he's a great guy.
I would love to do a bookshelf tour with you one day.
Or maybe we can even do it in the end of the stream.
Just for you to show us the awesome collection you have.
The only problem is in this room,
there's like just some books and like the rest of them.
I have a bit room of a bunch of,
like I have some boxes that I just don't have anywhere else
to put.
And then I got a bunch of e-books now
because my wife said I have to stop buying books.
So I'm trying to buy e-books now.
Cause like when we move out of this house,
it's going to be like a workout session.
Yeah.
It's going to be good.
And it's horrible because like I have books that I hate.
Like I'm like, but I don't want to get rid of them.
I'm like, I turned to like golem.
I'm like, no the precious, like I can't get rid of my books.
I have, I still have a copy of, of every young man's battle,
which I think is, is, I won't say it,
but I was going to say something about mine comp,
but it's a bad book.
I would say, I think it damages a lot of people,
but I don't know if we'd agree on this.
Is the author recanted?
Oh, maybe.
I mean, that would be great if he did.
I got a question from Swiftsy.
You said the Old Testament God is morally progressive,
progressing Israel.
What book goes deeper into that?
Oh, good question.
That's a good, I think a lot of this comes
from me reading commentaries in the sword.
It's hard for me to think of a specific book that cups it.
I know Paul Kopen has some books on it,
although I do just disagree with him
on some specifics of that.
So a good book maybe to start would be,
I mean, I would tell people to start
on the nature of the Torah itself.
So maybe like the Lost World of the Torah by John Walton,
might be a good place to start,
just understanding what the Torah meant in that culture.
But stuff on morally progressing Israel.
I mean, that's a lot of stuff I'm getting
from different commentaries
that I've been just sort of piecing together.
So I don't know of any specific book
that would cover that, so I apologize.
Okay.
Here's the problem.
There's not a lot of like Christian apologists
that really do a lot of Old Testament stuff.
That's kind of why I started doing a lot of it
because I felt like there was a need there.
And like I said, at the start,
I don't think you're right, but you're the least wrong.
Hey, put that on the back of your first book you published,
David McDonald, Atheist.
He's not right, but he's the least wrong.
No, I, you know, when you compare it,
when you're up against like Kent Hovind and Ken Ham
and like, you know, even William Lane Craig,
I think has some good things to say,
but I think that you, you know,
when Christians are questioning their faith
and they're like, hey, I really don't want
to question my faith, I'm like, go check it,
you're Michael Jones and stuff, it's fine.
Like I don't, I'm not trying to evangelize atheism
or anything, it's like stupid.
That's cool, I appreciate that.
But, but I still think you're wrong.
So why is atheism not a good option here?
Why is open-theism not a good option here?
So I just don't think, I don't, philosophically,
I think it's an okay option.
What is open-theism?
Can you explain?
Open-theism is basically the idea
that God does not know the future.
He, his omniscience require, is basically limited
to the present and the past.
He doesn't know what's gonna happen tomorrow.
He's got a pretty, he's got the best guess
of anyone, obviously, but he does not know for sure
everything that's going to happen.
I just don't think it fits perfectly.
I think it's pretty clear that God is omniscient
and knows what's going to happen.
Oh, okay, this, that's perfect.
Cause that leads me right into the next part
of the conversation.
So I wanted to talk a little bit about determinism.
What are your thoughts on determinism?
Well, I'm not a determinist, to be sure,
but I took a class about a year ago
where both professors were compatibilists.
And I think they made a pretty good case
that compatibilism could be quite possible.
And I don't think it is anything inconsistent
with Christianity.
So it opened up new avenues to where I started
to think compatibilism may not be that bad.
But I'm definitely not a determinist.
And if determinism is true,
I would just be a compatibilist.
Not against the idea that that could be a possibility.
So are you aware of like stories of like people
who commit some crime and it's the totally outside
of the character and then when they do an autopsy on them
and they find out they had a brain tumor that was pushing.
So would you say in those circumstances,
are those people guilty of those crimes
from a ground level?
Yeah.
I mean, possibly no.
I mean, and we have to remember,
I think Jesus says so much that like in John 941, John 1522,
he says, like, if I had not come, they would not be guilty.
Now that I've come, they have no excuse.
So it's this idea that God judges people
based on the information they had.
So if someone is being forced to do something
and it's really not their will,
I don't think that that's going to be held against them.
I'm in the sense what you would call a legal universalist.
When John the Baptist said,
we hold a land who comes to take the way
of the sin of the world,
that means Jesus took away the sin of the world.
The only people that are in hell
are the people who choose to be there
because they've rejected God openly.
So all that all basically go to heaven if they want to.
So if that's the case, I'm very much,
as well as Paul says in Romans 513,
sin is not counted where there is no law.
So, you know, and I think you can extrapolate from that,
that if somebody is being forced to do something,
like, you know, it's like, if like,
I'm sure we have the technology
of someone built like a robot arm
that would make me pick up a gun
and, you know, shoot myself to fake a suicide.
Like in that one movie, Sniper.
Like, if you really...
Obviously not.
It's a weird movie,
but one of the characters in the middle of it
is like the CIA or something puts him in like a thing
where he's going to like pull the trigger
and then of course the protagonist shows up and leaves him.
But it's like, he didn't commit suicide.
Like he's not at fault for that.
If someone, something else is making you do something,
you're not at fault for that.
And, you know, libertarian and free will allows
for the idea that there are circumstances
that prevent us from actually acting free at times.
So do you think our choices are controlled by our brain,
our state, our brain state?
I would say brain states are aspects of the brain,
aspects of the world itself influence our choices.
And I'd say that in many cases, we're the ultimate decider.
So I differentiate between two things here,
free will and freedom.
I would say we have the ability of free will,
but sometimes we don't have enough freedom
to activate it or use it.
So freedom is like the gasoline and free will is like the car.
If there's no freedom in the car,
gasoline can't really drive it anywhere.
If you, you know, put me in a jail cell,
you have limited my freedom and my ability to use my free will.
But you didn't take away my free will,
you just took away so much freedom.
Likewise, if you have a certain tumor,
it's going to limit your freedom in so many ways
that maybe you won't be able to be able
to use your free will as you could without it.
So it's about the ability and availability.
Is there a way though to, like what evidence do you have
that I guess, I don't know if this is a correct,
I might be committing some sort of fallacy here,
but is what evidence do you have that our choices,
our consciousness, our decision-making processes
are at anything outside of just our brain?
So I did a series called Irreducible Mind,
which I refer people to.
And of course, it's not a proof,
but I'd say there's evidence of this.
So for one thing, there was a neuroscientist
like Mario Berregard as well as Jeffrey Schwartz,
who did these studies.
And they looked at the brain activity of either,
I'll just do a Berregard study.
He looked at the brain activity of people
and then he before and then after.
So he made them watch basically porn.
And he told them to consciously focus
on not getting aroused.
And he noticed after that the brain activity
actually changed, the arousal parts of the brain
had actually rewired themselves
so that they would prevent themselves
from getting aroused as much.
Jeffrey Schwartz did the same thing with OCD patients
and he found that brain activity changed
through conscious effort.
So there, Jeffrey Schwartz is pretty explicit about this.
He's arguing that there's this idea of an immaterial soul
that actually can change the brain chemistry
that is not necessarily determined by the brain chemistry.
The brain chemistry is happening
after the conscious efforts.
So he's inferring, not proving, but inferring
that there is some sort of immaterial substance
that is actually able to modify the brain chemistry.
Now, it doesn't deny that brain chemistry
can affect people, but he says there's like,
oh, there's also, you can affect your brain chemistry
and your brain chemistry can affect you.
Have you heard of Shannon Q's take on the neuroscience
and how she doesn't think a soul could even
be influencing the brain because of like the,
I'm not sure I'm gonna butcher it,
but have you ever heard her talk about the brain at all?
A little bit, I think I know where you're going with it though.
Yeah, so when I had her on deep drinks,
we got wildly drunk by the way,
but she was talking about this, it all goes over my head,
but essentially like she,
when in her deconstructing her faith,
she realized that she couldn't,
she doesn't even think it's possible for a soul to be,
a soul would literally have to be
spawning into someone's head
and moving sodium ions around,
like in a physical way to the force and things like that.
All right, hold on, I got a book, I got a book.
Okay, so first of all, my view, I'm an idealist,
so I don't think there was like a,
I think everything's immaterial.
So this is called the interaction problem,
it's the idea that how does an immaterial act with a material
without like, you know, adding energy
would violate the law of conservation, this idea.
So I'm a idealist, so my basic view is that the brain
or the self, this is just what a first person
conscious experience would look like in reality.
You're gonna manifest as something,
so the brain activity is just the image
of a conscious Asian acting.
So it's reverse, it's this basic idea that, you know,
it's like, it's trying to think of a good analogy,
but basically what I'm trying to say is like,
when the brain is like signaling and firing,
that is just the representation of a conscious agent
who is acting and doing certain things.
It's not so much this idea that there's an immaterial soul
that's like affecting the brain chemistry,
the brain itself is the image of it.
However, if you are a substance dualist,
this is written by a neuroscientist, John Eccles,
how the self controls its brain.
What he argues is he does a very good job,
he argues from a physicist.
He argues that the self, the immaterial self,
affecting the material substance is not affecting it
in a way where it's gonna move in and change things.
It's more like a quantum wave
where it just affects probability waves.
And what that basically means is it doesn't have to,
you know, insert energy or change anything.
It just has to shift different probabilities
of already existing chemistry there.
That's how it influences and affects things.
And I think that's more in line with some of the research
that I had brought up earlier about, you know,
being able to modify brain chemistry
through conscious efforts, that kind of thing.
But it's generally the idea that you don't have to sort
of introduce a sort of immaterial substance
that sort of is like inserting energy or something.
And if you want to see where I explained it
in much better detail,
check out your reducible mind series on my channel.
Part three is where I cover that more in depth, I believe.
So that would cover that.
When this goes up,
I'll make sure I'll link it in the description.
Cool.
People can just YouTube it, but as well.
But the something, so just,
this is all just preamble to try and get to where I,
to see where you're at, so I can explain where I'm at.
So when it comes to determinism or compatibilism,
which I'm not 100% sure the nuances of both,
but so my understanding, this is how I view it,
is someone, so let's say if we had a rock, right?
And we pushed a rock down the hill
and we knew every variable.
We knew what it would bounce off.
We knew the friction, the temperature,
with the dust that would hit the wind.
We knew every single variable.
We could predict with 100% accuracy
where that rock would land at the bottom of the hill.
And then if we were to repeat the experiment
and nothing changed a million times,
it would land in the exact same spot a million times.
So for me, I view the brain and everything in the universe
as a much, much, much, much more complicated version
of a rock and a hill.
So for example, I take an antidepressant.
If it's the right one that I need for my brain,
I stop getting depressed.
I take diazepine, I stop being anxious.
So I meditate, I rewire neurons in my brain.
If I go for a jog, I release serotonin
and it affects my mood.
I'm a slave to this thing that's in my brain.
If someone drives a stake through my head,
I'm going to stop having a conscious experience
as far as I can tell.
So for me, that's how I view the brain
and the world and things like that.
Obviously this becomes a bit of a problem
when you start looking at moral theories,
like how do we then send someone to jail
for something they essentially didn't have a choice in?
Because obviously they're all affected,
everything's affected by everything, right?
And I've got some answers for that, but we won't go there.
But I think, if that's the case,
if I subscribe to that worldview, that idea,
I believe that then Adam and Eve had a specific brain state
in order to choose the fruit, in order to sin.
They had a specific brain, right?
And God could have created them with a brain
that didn't choose that option.
And free will in this concept, in this idea,
free will has to be an illusion.
Like free will has to be this idea
of what we think, it's an illusion,
we don't have free will, we just have,
we think we do, it feels like we do,
but we actually don't in the grand scheme of things.
Like the same way as like,
if someone held my head underwater,
I don't have the free will to live,
I'm going to drown, I need oxygen,
my brain needs oxygen.
So in the same way that God created Adam and Eve,
he created the garden, he created everything around them,
and he knew that we're going to sin ahead of time, right?
So to me, I don't know how we hold Adam and Eve
accountable for that.
Okay, well, I think this is the-
Under that, like, if we could,
so maybe we could split this up into,
can you address the point,
how would you solve that problem
if you subscribe to My World View,
of what I just explained,
and then tell me why you think it's wrong.
Do you have an answer for the first one?
So yeah, if we just assume it determinism is true, correct?
Yeah, yeah.
Okay, so I don't know if I have a sufficient answer,
but I'll do my best, I'll just say that.
So for one thing, I think this is one of the reasons
I think it's a problem with young Irish creationism.
This is something Josh Freshmusen wrote a paper on,
it's this idea that God did not create Adam and Eve de novo
with like a certain nature,
and then that basically is him determining
the act a certain way.
It's this idea that God set up like a chaotic universe
that sort of churns out souls
from the chaotic background through an evolutionary process.
So it's not so much to say that he directly determined
the nature of creatures he created de novo.
It's this idea that certain creatures
have come out of the universe
and he wants to work with them
to get them to a better place.
Now, suppose that's the truth.
Maybe God is sort of like,
he built this universe to sort of churn out creatures
so that he does not have to directly determine their nature.
They sort of come out through an evolutionary process.
This is coming from Josh Freshmusen's paper
and that therefore he's not directly determining them.
He comes in at a certain point,
he's like, okay, I wanna get them to a better place.
Let me start working with them.
I know they're gonna send no matter what I do.
I have a whole process in place
that's going to eventually get humanity
to a place where it needs to be.
It's just gonna take a while working with them,
working with them without trying to force them,
trying to bring them along without me basically jumping in
and turning them into biological robots.
So if that's the case,
then God does not create Adam if they know.
He comes into the creation, Genesis one, establishes his temple.
He gets two people to work in the garden, they fall,
but it's all part of the process
that he knew ahead of time was gonna happen
to sort of get them along to a better place.
It's about him creating a better humanity
in the long run eventually,
even though when he came into our world,
we weren't not exactly at the best place yet,
but he's going to help us along to get there
without basically just coming in
and basically turning us into string puppets or something.
So that's how I would do it if determinism is true.
I would talk about like sort of like this epic story
in the sense like you could think of it like,
Lord of the Rings again,
going back to that is like the Eru Eluvatar that God is like
comes in and he allows the creation to be what it is
in that chaotic sense,
but over time through divine providence,
he gets it to a better place
and then we see a beautiful story coming out of that.
It's much more interesting,
a much more epic triumphant story
than if he just sort of created perfect beings to begin with
and there was no struggle, there was no triumph,
there was no courage, there was no compassion,
everything was just perfect to begin with.
So that's what I would go down that route.
Okay.
And if, so is, okay.
All right.
I think that makes sense.
So yeah, all right.
So, so how's this?
I just want to say one more thing.
I found it interesting that what Josh Rasmussen argues
is he argues evolution itself helps solve the problem
of suffering and evil.
And he did this in his paper,
which I found very interesting.
I think he makes a good point
because Young Earth creationism,
he used to have God creating Adam, he'd take Novo
and now they have this nature
that he has given them
that it's going to cause them to sin
versus like the idea that they sort of come about
from that evolutionary process.
So I thought that was a very interesting way
that he sort of reversed that argument on them.
Okay, true.
What is there any resources that you can recommend
for people who may be more interested
in what you're talking about there?
Obviously, I'll read them as well
because I'm not a hundred percent sure
I fully follow following what you're saying.
Yeah.
Let me find the paper.
Oh, here it is.
It's by Jordan Wesley and Josh Rasmussen,
a randomness based theodicy for evolutionary evils.
And I bring it up in my video,
the problem of suffering a Christian response.
And so I use some other work there.
So that's a resource you can use as well.
Okay.
So we're darting around like crazy.
I've got so much I want to talk to you about
and we've only got a limited time,
but so I want to jump on to a different thought experiment.
But one thing I did what I quickly just mentioned is,
everyone go and check out Inspiring Philosophies channel
even if you are a dirty atheist like me.
So he's got some a lot of cool content,
a lot of cool videos and his recent video
on the philosophy of rings of power is pretty cool.
And you're going to be releasing a like a non-live stream
proper version of that soon, which would be really cool.
Yeah.
I'm going to talk about like one of,
like one of the things people complained about
like George R. R. Martin,
if Crain could complain about Lord of the Rings
is like Tolkien does certain things a certain way.
And he's like, well, this was bad.
Like Martin is criticizing him on his writing on that.
And I'm going to argue like, no,
Tolkien's doing this for an important reason.
Like for one thing he's doing it
because he's got an underlying philosophy motivating
to write a certain way.
Like if you notice in Lord of the Rings,
there was no hero, no one defeats Sauron.
Frodo doesn't do it.
He doesn't throw the ring in the Mount Doom.
He tries to keep the ring at the end.
And then what happens is Golem just happens to get off of him
and he gets all excited and slips and falls into the lava.
So basically Golem lost because,
or Sauron lost because Golem was clumsy.
Now there's this whole thing earlier about how, you know,
Frodo curses him that, you know,
if he attacks him he'll be killed or something.
But still the way it played out was
is that Golem was clumsy and that's what defeated Sauron.
Tolkien wrote that way specifically on purpose
because he's doing something.
Yeah.
I would, I think we should have done a stream
just purely on Lord of the Rings
because this is like clearly a passion of yours.
But yeah, this is great.
It is, yeah.
And also for those who weren't here at the start,
Deep Drinks Podcast, we have deep drinks
over deep conversations.
I'm an agnostic atheist, was a former youth pastor.
Coming up we have a couple of cool episodes
with Rhys, Rhys, oh my gosh, Read Nice Wonder,
about street epistemology and Tate,
who was a gay, is he, young man,
and his mom brought him to an exorcism.
And also listen to Deep Drinks on Spotify,
Apple Music, all that stuff.
It's all there.
So just, let's, let's,
I wanna jump into a last final thought experiment question.
So,
so I was talking to a philosophy student
and they brought up a thought experiment
that they thought disproved the idea
of at least a Western God, the idea of a Christian God.
So I know that, for example, in India,
they don't really have the problem of evil,
like under their framework of religiosity.
I know Arjuna, who you've talked to about that,
they don't really have the problem of evil.
As a Hare Krishna, he doesn't kind of subscribe to it.
So the thought experiment that he came up with
is say we're in a room, meaning you were in a room,
and there are two buttons.
One gives you $500 to charity,
and one gives you $1,000 to charity.
Neither are immoral, right?
Would you say that neither are immoral choices?
Wait, can you say the choices again?
You actually kind of broke up there,
and I think I may have missed.
Oh yeah.
So there's two buttons in a room.
One is, one gives $500 to charity,
and one gives $1,000 to charity.
Button is what I missed.
Okay, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
So to press the button that gives $1,000 to charity,
that's a moral action, right?
You would say like the action of pressing a button.
And the $500 is also a moral action.
It's just less moral.
It's just not as like virtuous or not as,
I don't know what phraseology you would use.
So he points out that in order to accept
this philosophy student,
one of my discord members, great guy,
he'll probably do a review of this conversation
and he'll pull it apart, everything I got wrong.
But he says in order to accept
that there is a truly good God,
you have to accept like he could have created a universe
in which the only two options were good and even better.
The fact that there are choices that are evil,
this proves the idea of a good God in his mind.
Yeah, I think that.
Oh, go continue, please.
Just to continue, regarding virtue ethics,
like a greater idea, a bigger concepts, right?
And that God's, we could still accomplish that
with this room of two buttons, $500 or a thousand, right?
And obviously that's a very simple idea,
but encapsulating the choices we have each day
between different actions, right?
So what are your thoughts on that?
So I want to answer it with some questions
before I get into details,
but would you want to live in that world?
Yeah.
Okay, good.
That's what I expected you to say.
Would you want to read about that world?
Or would you prefer to read about Lord of the Rings?
Do you have that one?
Well, that's not fair.
Lord of the Rings is an amazing book.
He can't.
Well, that's my point, though, and I picked that on purpose
because in that world, you basically have creatures
that never have to worry about being courageous.
They never have to worry about being compassionate
because compassion can only,
real compassionally happen if someone is feeling sorrowful,
they're feeling sad.
And so to really experience that virtue itself,
there has to be some sort of pain going on.
Courage is, Aristotle talks a lot about courage.
To be courageous, which we think is a moral good,
there has to be some sort of threat,
some sort of danger going on there.
And so the reason I brought up Lord of the Rings
is because one of the things that we have to accept, though,
is that if we say there's a world
where there is none of that moral evil
or badness that's happening,
there isn't going to be any of these triumphant virtues
of overcoming evil, becoming triumphant,
seeing the defeat of it.
And I think subconsciously, intuitively,
we tend to accept that those worlds
are more interesting and better
because the stories themselves that come out of them
are far better.
We definitely prefer to read about Lord of the Rings
versus the world like teletubbies
because they don't have to worry about
dealing with a moral evil.
But we say that the characters that come out of Lord of the Rings
are so much more interesting
because they have taken evil head on.
They had suffered through it
and it was so, and to see them overcome it,
you relate to them in so much more ways,
but you love them so much more,
you think they're so much more better,
they've come to such better spots.
Now, if God is, of course, outside of our world
and he's going to write a story, so to speak,
I wouldn't say he's like a determinist one,
but a story, so to speak,
I think he's going to write a world
where there is a triumph evil, there's triumphant,
there's triumphant, there's evil.
There is evil and there's suffering,
but it is overcome and that creates a far better story.
That creates far better and more virtuous creatures
that understand what they went through
and it makes them much more deeper,
makes them much more deeply intellectual,
deeply loving, deeply moral,
that he can have much more fulfilling relationships with.
The biblical worldview is the idea
that God is a relational being
and he has created us to have relationships with us,
that that's what he wants.
Well, if he wants truly deep fulfilling relationships,
then very much this idea that he's going to create a world
where there are creatures that go through suffering,
that go through evil, but ultimately overcome it in triumph
to create more deep fulfilling relationships.
And to bring up Lord of the Rings again,
we see this in the Silmarillion.
So Eru begins with the Inar,
he sings the song of creation
that becomes the world of Arda,
and then Melkor, whose Morgoth comes in,
he starts sewing discord into the creation.
And Eru arises from his throne three times
and overtakes it and brings it into harmony,
saying, you know, like you meant this for evil,
but I'm going to use it for good.
And this is basically what he then shows the Inar,
this is the story of Arda that you're going to go,
that some of you will go live through
and experience what that song was.
And we would say,
well, what if Melkor never sew discord into the song?
Well, you wouldn't have the evil,
you wouldn't have the flight of the nodar,
you wouldn't have the war of wrath,
you wouldn't have the second age with the fall of Numenor,
the rise of Sauron and then the defeat of Sauron
at the end of the third age.
And we would say that that story has created
much more interesting people, much more triumphant people,
much more knowledgeable, much more insightful people,
a much better story.
And that's the kind of thing
that we would say that God would prefer.
Ultimately, he will triumph over evil,
but it's going to create much more relational,
stronger beings in the long way.
So he allows for evil, allows for chaos,
so that through that we may grow
and through that we may grow.
And through that growing, we come closer to him, grow more
and become truly beings that are worthy
to judge angels one day.
Okay, I've got a couple of questions,
but my first question is,
why do you think Lord of the Rings is better than Genesis?
How dare you, sir?
It is, it's clearly better.
You just, we usually use Lord of the Rings
as like an amazing example,
but you didn't use Genesis because it's way better story.
Well, I used Lord of the Rings
because you said it was a great story
and that was trying to relate to you.
But here's the thing, I'll give you this.
Mac Penney.
I would say Lord of the Rings is better
than Genesis only, but I would say that the biblical story
in its full complete picture is better than Lord of the Rings.
And Tolkien would have agreed.
Yeah, okay.
All right, so you said,
would you rather live in a world where I can read a book,
where I can read,
sorry, would I rather read a book
about someone in a room pressing buttons
or Lord of the Rings, right?
That's the question you asked.
I wanna pose the question to you.
Would you rather live in a world where Lord of the Rings
exists but children are sex trafficked
or in a world where Lord of the Rings doesn't exist
but children are not sex trafficked?
So in a world where Lord of the Rings doesn't exist
but children are not sex trafficked.
Is that versus one with it?
Here's what I would say in reply.
I would rather live,
I would rather go through a dream world
where I will wake up and I'm gonna bring this around
where there is Lord of the Rings and there's sex trafficking
because everyone wakes up from the dream
and then they realize the pain it causes over and done with.
And this is my view on the problem of evil as well.
When I talk about in my video is that the suffering itself
when we die, it's almost like waking up from a dream.
We wake up to a more real world with God.
So it's like you go through that suffering
only for character development
and then you come out of it on the other side.
Now, my emotions tell me right now
that I would rather live in a world
without sex trafficking, obviously.
Like that's where my emotions are going to go.
But if you could, but if let me,
let me say it with another different thought experiment.
What I, let's say somebody came to me and said,
your daughter, I'm gonna put her into like a dream state
that's gonna last a day, but it's gonna feel like 20 years,
but she's gonna go through all this suffering in the dream
and she's gonna, but she'll come out of it.
She'll just be fine.
And she'll have all this knowledge now
that she wouldn't have had without going through that.
It's gonna give her such insight into growth.
And so like on her 18th birthday, this is gonna happen.
I might say that that would be okay
because A, it's not gonna cause any lasting damage.
It's not going to actually like ruin her.
It's just gonna make her more mature
and to fill up in a much better way
that may actually give her more life experience.
It's gonna help her better in this world.
I personally would be okay going through that myself
going into a dream state and coming out
with all this advanced knowledge that I now have.
Of course I'd let her decide cause she's 18,
but you get the idea when I'm trying to get out here.
But I would say that from God's perspective,
that's kind of what it's like for us
is that we're in this like lesser world
and we wake up and do a more real world.
And then it's like when you wake up from a dream,
I've had dreams where like my family dies
and I come out of it.
And I had a dream recently where I had one of those
and I realized how important they were to me.
Like I wouldn't be living selfishly.
I need to focus more on them and how good they were
and having gone through that dream of being to go,
holy crap, I need to appreciate them more.
Well, that's what I would say suffering is like
from God's perspective.
We wake up into the real world with him
and it's all for character development
but it doesn't cause lasting suffering.
Well, I did not expect you to bite that bullet, to be honest.
I mean, I've had conversations with Muslims
about immoral anti-realism
where I had to bite really uncomfortable questions
about incest and things like that.
So take my hat off to you for being able to say that.
But like honestly.
The reason why I bite the bullet is because I have come
from studying to recognize how important virtue is,
how important like the growing in virtue is.
But isn't it only important in whatever universe and world
that we've created that has been created by God?
He could have created a world where virtue means nothing
and we're only evaluating it as subjectively important
because of the world we've grown up in.
Yeah, but I would say that I think when,
I don't know if that's possible
that God could have created a world where virtue
isn't important.
Because I mean, when I say when God's omnipotent,
he's still bound by certain logical rules.
Like he can't create a square circle.
I mean, he's not.
Wait, wait.
Really?
Because-
God can't.
So wait, so do you believe that God created these rules?
No, I think a lot.
Here's what I think about logic.
We're talking about logic in a metaphysical sense.
Logic is simply what is and what is possible.
So like God cannot create a world where two plus two
equals five because that just doesn't make sense logically.
It's not like he's bound by those rules.
That's just simply what it is.
And so omnipotence does not mean the ability to do anything.
It just means he's all powerful
and he has power over everything in existence.
It does not mean he could cease to exist.
It does not mean he could get COVID
because he's an omnipotent being.
So if he's all powerful, he could not get sick
or he could not cease to exist.
You know, the Bible says like, you know,
God cannot stop loving us.
He just simply cannot.
He's bound by that role.
Now, it's not someone that he's bound by it.
Like it's some sort of external role.
It's just the fact of logic.
So when I say go and bring this back to the virtue thing,
if you're going to create rational free beings
that you want to grow in a relationships with,
I don't think you could create a world
where those types of beings exist
and virtue is not essential.
Well, couldn't you create a world
where the only options were good options?
Yeah, you could, but I don't think that's going to create,
as I talk about, the triumph over evil.
The idea of building truly virtuous characters
can do experience compassion and courage
and overcoming evil and the triumph
of that growing through that kind of sense.
Yeah, sure.
But we wouldn't need to triumph over evil
because there would be no evil.
Exactly.
But my position is that a world where the evil is allowed
and there is triumphant good, there is triumphant virtue,
that is ultimately more desirable
or better than a world without that.
And I use examples like pop culture or stories we write.
And I argue that we implicitly almost agree with
or we implicitly agree with God on that.
Because when we write stories,
we write stories of overcoming evil and triumph
and people, characters going through suffering
only to overcome.
We don't write typically stories unless they're for kids
about people who never have to experience that stuff.
We seem to agree those worlds are better.
But to me, yeah, I understand that.
And please don't take my demeanor as I'm getting like,
the whiskey's settling in, I'm just, you know,
they're still friends.
And go forth.
I'm still having, but the, so to me,
like that all of this points to a few things.
One, it points to the idea
that humanity created the concept of God, right?
If God, if God could create this universe of like anything,
he's all knowing, all powerful.
And yet he chose to create something
that we write about to this day,
even people who are non-religious to me,
that speaks more to the idea
that God was a created concept from our rational thing.
But the second thing is, and the more important thing is,
I think that you've hit the nail on the head
where I think that, and I don't think
that you are an immoral person.
And I don't think that, or anything like that.
But I think that the thinking that you've like demonstrated
a little bit is part of the problem
that religiosity has in the world.
In that, you know, overcoming virtue,
instead of improving, instead of like looking
at things rationally, you know, like for example,
women drivers in Saudi Arabia,
there's like, there's like some idea of like,
it's virtuous for, you know, women not to drive.
It's virtuous for men to have authority over them
and things like that.
Like the concept of virtue and the,
it makes sense why we have so much good people
doing bad things.
Like it's like, you know that quote,
that when I was an edgy atheist,
edgelord atheist, in my edgeless atheist days
when I first deconstructed my faith,
I would quote that saying,
it takes a good man to do good things
and a bad man to do bad things,
but for a good man to do bad things,
that takes religion.
And for me, that demonstrates,
that's almost like a classic, right?
But that almost demonstrates,
that thinking almost demonstrates
that point a little bit.
So for me, like, anyway, keep going.
We're part of everything.
Did we create God?
And does that aspect show?
I would say, no, I think it shows how we reflect our creator
that we are created in his,
we're living beings created to have relationships with him.
And so we're going to have the same sort of qualities
or same sort of virtues or same sort of like rationale
that in a lot of ways that he will have.
So we reflect him in a lot of ways.
It's not so much the idea that we create God in our image
that if we're created in God's image,
we're gonna reflect him in certain ways.
And with the second thing,
I hope I'm understanding you correctly.
You can correct me if I'm wrong,
but this idea that it takes religion to do bad things.
Sociologically, I just don't think that's the case.
I'm not saying that we sort of force suffering on the people.
I'm not saying we force evil on the people, of course not.
I'm saying that that is allowed in this world
because it does allow for more virtue building.
It does allow for more rationale building as well.
But that doesn't mean that we are ever called
to sort of enforce that on the people
because we're not, of course, in charge of things.
We have been called to act in love and to act on good accord.
We're not called to be the parent, so to speak,
I guess you could say.
You would say like, it's okay for you to discipline your child,
but if one of your other children is gonna discipline
that child, you'd be like, that's not your job.
You're not in the position to do that.
You've not gotten to the place
where you can understand the maturity
of what it takes to do this.
You're not there yet.
And so we need to respect that position.
Well, what I kind of mean by that is,
so if we traveled back to the Atlantic slave trade,
for example, right?
You could have like a rational agent.
You gotta pour that more, we gotta get more whiskey in there.
Oh, that's good to enjoy.
Yeah.
So you can have like a rational person come back
to the Atlantic slave trade and be like, hey, look,
these people, although they have a different skin color,
are people and they shouldn't be subjected
to the ownership of another person.
Now, a good person, like literally there were probably,
a lot of the slave traders were probably evil people,
but for the average person that buys a slave,
part of the culture or whatever,
they may be a good person,
but they may justify it with virtue ethics,
with, not virtue ethics, but what you've talked about
or with like the idea of like a greater story
or hierarchy or the caste system
or like the Bible stating that,
take the, giving you instructions on how to keep slaves.
So for me, when I say that,
it takes a good man to do good things,
a bad man to do bad things,
but for good men to do bad things, that takes religion.
It's not necessary to talk about religion
as in like Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Hinduism,
it's talking about that way of thinking,
that concept of like, there's a greater good,
there's a bigger picture where I think that bringing,
and this doesn't matter at all,
but bringing things back to where I can't am at at the moment,
moral anti-realisms, subjective morality, things like that.
I don't, to me, it paints the picture of a deity
to be evil kind of, right?
So I mean, I mean, there were even young,
I mean, even some of the early Christian sects,
like as you probably know,
like the mass people who followed Marci
and rejected the Old Testament God
because they considered him an evil deity.
It's like, and this is before the Bible was canonized.
It's like, that's a big deal for Christians
to accept, to reject the Old Testament God
for the evil that is reported in there.
That's a big deal.
So I mean, these aren't new ideas.
Yeah, so let's talk about the slave trade example
you're going back like,
we wouldn't go back in time and say,
no, we need to keep letting this go on.
If we were, someone else sent back in time,
I think you and I would actively fight such a thing.
Yeah, of course.
Yeah, and I would agree with that.
Because you're a good boy.
Don't call me, that's creepy.
What do you think this is?
Hey, man, we're like, we're best friends, right?
You need to just accept the fact
that we're best friends already and just,
sorry, hang on, I just need,
I do need to bring this up in my drunken state
and then we can get back on to some serious topics.
So I, Michael and I have a bit of a fun
kind of a relationship online.
So I'm reaching out to Michael for help.
I'm like, Michael, I really want to get Cameron
from Capturing Christianity on my channel.
You know, so I tweaked to him and I'm like,
hey Cameron, I've sent you an email.
I would love to have you on Deep Drinks podcast
to learn more about your faith and your journey.
And then I tweeted, I added you,
I said, inspiring philosophy can vouch
that I'm a good boy and will not operate in bad faith.
Hoping to hear back from you soon.
Michael's response, I can totally vouch for David.
We met in a dark alley once where he offered me candy.
Everything after that was a bit fuzzy,
but the candy was excellent.
So as you can, so yeah, Cameron hasn't been
on Deep Drinks yet, so thank you for that.
He should have known I was joking.
He should know of me at this point.
Yeah, it'd be good to have him on.
Cause I think he's the perfect Christian troll.
He says things that he knows is gonna,
like, by the way, Jesus is God or something,
or by the way, Jesus is perfect.
And then like everyone gets triggered by it.
I love it.
It's so good.
Oh, but even with candy.
That's what he's saying.
Whiskey, I got the whiskey.
Sorry, I'm quite intoxicated at this stage, but keep going.
All right, back to the serious stuff.
So as I was talking about, if we were sent back in time,
we would be fighting that type of thing.
Because again, my whole position on virtue,
I think there's not so much that we experience suffering
and that's it.
My also point is that we also overcome it.
We triumph over it.
That's also important for the story.
That's also an essential aspect,
especially if you're something like Lord of the Rings.
It's not like Aero Louboutin creates a world
where there's just always these dark lords
that are always causing problems.
The biggest and most important part of the story
is when they're triumphed over, when they're defeated.
So, and I would say that's what our aspect is in this world.
It's we are called to go out and triumph over the suffering
and the evil and to defeat it through ethics, through science,
through preventing medicine, these types of things.
And that itself also helps build virtue.
That builds character in a lot of ways
because then we get to see what it's like
to defeat these things and we go, wow, that's incredible.
Let's do more of that.
Because look at what it turns us
into these virtuous soul-building creatures.
So it's not so much this idea that suffering itself
is like the full story.
No, it's there, but the triumph over it
is not only just as important, it's more important itself.
So that's also just, that's more important
for building virtuous creatures.
OK.
Will there be free will in heaven?
Yes, but for the same, but let me ask you this question.
Do you put random objects you find on the ground in your mouth?
Sometimes, but not all the time, yeah.
Not recently, not since you were like three.
No, not recently.
Yeah, that's since you were like three.
But yeah, that's my general point is that, yeah,
there'll be free will in heaven, but we're not going to sin
because it'll be like, you know, when a toddler puts objects
in its mouth, we don't do that now because we know better.
We'll have been sanctified and matured so much.
We'll know that no, we won't be doing it at that point.
But I mean, of course, there's free will in heaven
because there was a war in heaven.
How did that happen?
There was no free will.
Yeah, so like my this is the conversation I always have with
and people who point me to your videos is is is people people
will say that we need the ability to have free will in order
to make decisions, right?
We need to do evil.
But like, oh, sorry, they'll say that, that we God needs to
essentially hide from us because this is a different
discussion, but God needs to hide from us.
Otherwise we would, there will be no reason for faith.
And God wants us to have faith in his existence, right?
But the problem is, is like that I see with that is the devil
knew God fully, right?
He knew who God was, and he still chose to sin under
Christian theology, and he was still rejected from the kingdom
of heaven.
Will we have an option in heaven?
What do you think?
Or this or the new earth, I should say, where will we have
the option to reject God?
I think it's possible.
I would say it would probably be exceptionally rare,
because again, we've already gone through the suffering
and the choices and the evil.
So that point that we don't.
It's like back to Lord of the Rings, Frodo, let's say that
he could choose on his way to Valinor, could choose to jump
off the ship and swim back to Middle Earth.
Let's say he's got that option.
Okay, well, he's probably not going to, because he understands
he's, you know, at that point, you know, this is definitely
the best option for him, and he wants to live a flourishing life.
Yeah, so why can't we just do that now?
Why can't God reveal himself and be like, yo, heaven, come to
Isle 4, that's where heaven is, the stay ways to heaven.
And people who don't want to come, like, why can't we do that
now and then just dismiss all the suffering along the way?
So let me, let me just, if the earth is clearly round, why are
there flat earthers?
Because of fortune, like that means, I don't, I don't know.
I don't know.
I mean, I think this is something that no one wants to
accept, not even me.
We choose the psychology we want in a lot of ways.
We choose a lot of these things.
We're not purely rational machines.
There's a lot of emotion that goes into our decisions.
I fully acknowledge a lot of my decisions for being Christianity.
I could say a rash or a mix of rational and a mix of emotion.
No, Christian is true.
The argument is that, is that, you know, there's a lot of emotion
that goes into these choices and a lot of what, what's out there is.
So was it Pascal, I believe who said this is that there's enough
evidence for God's existence for anybody who truly is, is seeking
and wants to know, but it's also not forced upon us in the way
that we just have to accept it.
It's left in this sort of ground that where people who seek God can do it.
Now you as an atheist, you're not going to agree with me because
you don't think there's enough evidence for God's existence, fair enough.
But I'm just saying, if Christianity is true, that would be the,
that would be the explanation for it.
And then that's where the conversation needs to have.
It needs to be, excuse me, excuse my grammar.
I don't know if you have a, have a channel where or something
where you have conversations with people like long form like this.
But if you did, I'd be happy to come on to tell you why I don't have evidence
for why I went from willing to sacrifice my life for Christianity
to no longer accepting it as true, because I think there's a long conversation
to have there, but I think that you might be able to, to offer some new
insight on, on my perspective there, because you view Christianity
very differently than I did.
Here's a say is I don't like to psychoanalyze people.
I don't.
I don't know what's in your thoughts.
I can't say, well, the reason why you made these choices is obviously
because you just want to sin and you just want to drink alcohol
and no longer speak in tongues and that like, you know, I can't say
that that'd be not only rude, it would be from a place of ignorance.
So because we can't like psychoanalyze people, I'm not going to pretend to.
The best I can do is say, here's why I'm convinced.
Here's the evidence.
Let me try to point you to it.
But if you're not convinced, ultimately, I have to say that's between you and God.
He's going to know your thoughts better than you or, or I can for sure.
So that's between you and him and there's nothing more I can do.
Maybe you're completely justified.
But if that's the case, my view on Christianity is, is that the only
people that are in hell are the people who want to be there.
If there is a truly rational disbelief, then God will make it right.
And some sort of afterlife state.
It's not this idea that everyone is going to go to hell
because they didn't get the right information or something.
So truly, if there are people out there that just got bad information
or got corrupted along the way, I don't think they're condemned to hell at all.
Well, that's good.
So I might be in heaven.
I'll be a good boy with you.
You are going to be because the moment I die, I'm going to come
haunt you and make sure I'm going to start like what I'll do is you'll
walk through a bookstore and I'll just knock a Bible on the ground and like
give you signs like, you know, well, you know what?
If that maybe that is better than the law of the rings.
That's a fun idea.
So I did actually tell my story a little bit on Nur-e-Kam stream.
We did a like a three or almost a four hour conversation
where I talked about that Nur-e-Kam is a ex-Muslim.
Obviously, she's she's there in she's there in Mecca.
And as you can tell, I'm in a back room of Mecca there.
So she's that's good.
Yeah, exactly.
Oh, sometimes, honestly, though, when it comes to Islam,
sometimes I see some of the stuff they say, like when they're like
trying to justify the marriage of Aisha or they're talking about
like like slavery and the stuff.
And I'm like, oh, my gosh, you know, we me and the atheists,
we got to join forces and go out because it's just pure evil.
It's sometimes like my marriage to a nine year old.
Yeah, myself, you and Nur-e-Kam should do like a stream together
where we just because it was good fun.
We had some Muslim callers and stuff.
And one Muslim caller was he said he's things that only good hadiths,
no bad hadiths.
And I was like, this is like he was he was a good he was a character.
It was great.
But we do have some some questions.
But before we get into questions and people, please post some questions.
Are you OK to go over a couple of minutes?
We're one hour 20.
But only if I'm allowed to drink more.
Yeah, absolutely fine.
That's what we do here.
Oh, you know, although a lot of guests, by the way,
think that we have to drink alcohol.
You don't have to drink alcohol.
I've had Derek on here.
We've drunk a coffee.
I have a Satanist coming on, by the way, Michael,
who wants to drink tea and scones.
So it's just weird to me that the Christian philosopher chooses scotch.
I'm a loser.
And the Satan chooses tea and scones.
Yeah, well, there's your message right there.
Come to Jesus.
We got this fun stuff in a freaking tea over there.
Jesus, this first miracle, turning water into wine.
We know what we're doing. Yeah, exactly.
Come back. I do want to, as a as a plant based boy,
I'm using the word boy now all the time just because I know you don't like it.
But as a plant based boy, I mainly eat a vegetarian vegan diet.
I'm not, you know, I still have leather boots.
I sometimes have cheese if it's there.
But for the most part, I try and remove as much animal suffering as possible.
I imagine that you don't want to be vegan or vegetarian or anything.
So I'll get a model of high ground here.
Please explain animal suffering.
So for one thing, I will say that I try to we only we spend a lot of money
to make sure we get like farm based animals.
We try to like not support factory farming as much as we can.
So like we bought a whole cow.
It's in the deep freezer in that room back there from like a local farm
in here where they're raised ethically and that because we're trying to.
And I've said like once clean meat comes on the market and all on board.
Wait, so wait, so it's it's it's raised
ethically. When was it? How old was it when it was killed?
Pretty old. They make sure they get bigger. Yeah.
Oh, OK. So it was like 25 years.
Is that how old they I don't know exactly.
My wife knows more on that.
But I mean, but yeah, I'm just kidding.
I'm just trying to just pull it.
Anyway, keep going.
We're not going to potential vegan conversation.
But in regards to just let me just get this out.
I'm just going all over the place.
But animal suffering in in Australia in 2020, we, you know,
I was, you know, I had to remove I had to leave my home.
There's bushfires everywhere.
Crazy, crazy amount of stuff.
I had to sleep on my mum's floor.
And in that one hundred and forty three million mammals and two
point four six billion reptiles and one hundred and eighty one million birds
and fifty one million frogs were killed by bushfires.
Checkmate Christian.
No, so how do you explain animal suffering?
So my question is, is why don't you go out and just finish them off?
If you want to really reduce suffering,
think of the countless generations that are going to come in next thousands
upon thousands of years of life that's going to experience suffering.
But herbivores are going to be torn apart by carnivores.
Why are we not going out trying to make sure that this doesn't happen?
If suffering is so bad for life, why do we fight that life can still exist in
things, places like the rainforest where it's chaotic and suffering?
Why do we fight for the rainforest to continue?
And this is what the philosopher Justin Mooney has said that this implicitly
suggests that we understand there's some intrinsic goodness about life,
that the intrinsic badness of suffering can never overdo.
It can never outweigh it.
So we if we truly believe that somehow suffering was so bad
that it should be it should be enough to disprove like the idea that life should
exist, then why do we actively fight for life to continue to exist in places
where there's going to be continual suffering suffering for generations?
Why are we not trying to wipe out lions?
They're going to keep ekezels for hundreds of years.
We're going to say there's some intrinsic goodness there about life itself
that that outweighs the suffering regardless.
So my response is, you know, put your mouth through your money
is if you truly thought the suffering was was more bad,
why are we not trying to wipe out the rainforest in all life in general?
Because think about the generations we could save.
Well, we like OK.
So one, I do know vegans who actually do say that.
They say that if we if there was a predatory human that was running around
killing gazelles, we would either imprison them or put them to death.
Like it would be something that, you know, a predator killing sentient beings.
So they actually say that, yes, we should be killing the lions,
tigers, predatory animals and we should be wiping them off the face of the planet
in regards to herbivores, those like that that cow in your freezer, Miss Betty.
So in regards to, you know, the herbivores, they, you know.
Grass grass and things like that.
Yeah. So.
So first of all, there are people who say that.
So if I was to take an antinatalist position,
a position that we shouldn't breed any more
more animals into existence, we shouldn't breed any more humans in existence.
What would you say to that?
I would say that I think that goes against our intuition on this,
that somehow there is some sort of intrinsic goodness about life itself
and that it seems to be a violation of what just seems to be the way it is.
Life itself is so intrinsically good.
We understand that we should continue on and not just stop existing now
just because it may experience suffering in some way.
But does your intuition tell you that it's OK to like murder an animal
or kill an animal, I should say, for a taste pleasure?
I would say it's OK.
I would say my position on this is that I think humans are naturally
carnivorous or ancestors were for millions of years, basically hyper
carnivores and that the most optimal diet for at least for me,
because I did try to go vegan and vegetarian, well, vegetarian at one point
and I started getting sick.
I couldn't do it.
I got was very tired.
When I put meat back in my diet, I started feeling better.
And my mother, for example, is someone who is like allergic to
every thing on planet Earth, like any sort of plant based protein.
And when she just basically eats meat, she does.
She experiences a lot less problems.
So I would say that meat is essential for us to live a flourishing life
in the Aristotelian perspective, starting with the vegetable level
and the animal level and the human level, but the vegetable level
that Aristotle talked about, I forget the exact term he uses.
Crap, it's escaping me.
But it's this idea that we're a little flourishing life
if we nourish properly.
And I would say for me and for a lot of humans, meat is required
for us to be nourished properly so that we can continue with that flourishing
life. So I don't know if you think the World Health Organization
is like conspiratorial or whatever.
But they say a vegan diet is like a whole food plant based vegan diet
is acceptable for all stages of life and that it's perfectly healthy.
But I'm not an expert on that.
But I can tell you, my mother would probably be dead in five years
if that was the case.
She cannot eat certain things because like she can't eat nuts, peanuts.
She's allergic to pea protein of all things.
Like she's a ciliac, so she can't eat gluten.
She's ciliac.
Like she's allergic to everything.
Yeah, that's horrible.
What does she eat though?
Like beef, chicken?
Meat. Meat, beef, chicken.
So where do those meat, where do those, what does that meat get its protein from?
From plants.
So yeah, you can just eat the plants, right?
Well, but she can't.
Like she literally gets sick from that.
Like the thing is that our digestive system is different than a cow.
They can break down certain things.
Like a koala lives on eucalyptus leaves
because they have digestive system built to break that down.
If you and me were in a tree, a eucalyptus tree, we would die
because we don't have the digestive system to break down those leaves.
It's like we have, for millions of years we've eaten meat.
We've evolved this way.
That's the most in my view.
Now again, there were plenty of people that can live just fine on a vegan diet.
I don't think I can, my mother definitely can't.
And so meat is essential.
I reckon you could.
And I'm only doing this so you get an influx of vegan debate.
I knew you were doing that.
Yeah, we're going to come after me now.
Yeah.
No, but yeah, there's a lot of stuff.
Here they come.
They're already typing, already typing.
But so regardless of the vegan thing, right?
Like that's a non sequitur.
But in regards to like animal suffering.
So for example, we have friends who live in a bit of a commune
and they raise their own beef and then they kill it at like one year of age
or two years of age, whenever it's like viable when it stops being profitable.
And they also raise their own lambs and things like that.
And they were talking about how they were killing these animals, right?
And they were talking about how they tried to cut through its throat,
but it didn't go through.
It was like a bread knife.
It was blunt and took three times of going through this lambs throat to get it to die.
Now, cruel, obviously cruel.
Like everyone accepts it's cruel.
Like you're not even going to, as a dirty meat eater and an atheist,
we're sitting here saying cruel, right?
But and I'm meat eater.
Yeah, I showered today.
I'm not dirty.
Yeah, so don't judge me.
I'm a little tipsy.
But so these people said my wife was horrified at this.
I wasn't there.
They never bring up these conversations when I'm there because
I'd like to argue my wife doesn't.
So my my my wife said, you know, that's horrible.
And they rebuked it.
And they said, hang on.
God gave us these animals to have dominion over.
Don't go too far to the left or too far like politically left or too far into like,
God gave us these animals to have dominion over to.
And my wife, Amy told me this and I was like, why are they always?
Yeah.
My wife's name is Amy.
We're like parallel universe twins.
Did we just become best friends?
We're going to do that.
Yes.
That that's that video game, Plains of Myrica, when we talked about it.
Oh, yeah.
I think it'd be fun.
But because you said that if you win, I have to become a Christian again.
And if and if I win, you have to say, well done.
Good job.
You won.
Yeah.
So anyway, so it's really fair.
So I'll be on Christian again and I'll deconstruct again.
It'll be a whole lot.
I'll grab my head to the left if you stay.
Sorry.
Very drunk or very tipsy that my wife said, hey, that seems quite cruel.
And she was rebuked.
And I wish I wish I was there.
I would why didn't they bring it up when I was there?
Because the first thing I would have said is, why did God give animals pain receptors?
Why couldn't he have formulated a different kind of thing that said,
you know, God's omniscience says this animal is about to die in a horrific fire.
This animal is about to have its throat slit with a blunt bread knife.
This animal is going to.
So therefore switch off its pain receptors so it doesn't feel anything.
And then therefore the sacrifices of the Old Testament makes sense.
The eating of meat makes sense.
You know, why couldn't that have been created?
It seems cruel and unnecessary to give an animal pain receptors,
but not allow them to turn them off at the time of death.
I feel like if that was the case, we wouldn't have animals at this point,
because you have greedy, disgusting humans that would be going around.
Well, it's OK to shoot them.
They're not going to feel anything.
They'd be no respect.
They have no respect for the livestock, no respect for nature,
because they're just not going to feel anything.
We've just got to kill them all.
And we saw that already have that.
We already have that.
We saw that a lot in the 17 and 1800s were after Descartes.
We had this idea that animals were just sort of biological robots.
And look at the problems that sort of led to.
And I think the understanding they do experience pain,
they do deserve to have their species continue on, is important.
And it helps us respect life in a lot of ways.
Now, I don't think that's fully an answer,
but it's just a part of it, I would say.
Yeah, back in, I think it was the 18 and 1900s,
they used to do surgery on dogs to show the anatomy in university.
But they would do them when the dogs were alive and laugh at people
who thought that the dogs' yelping and screeching and fighting
was part of anything besides just nerve reactions,
like something like a plant, like a flower opening up.
Which is like, now, as we know about neuroscience and stuff,
we're like, wow, that was insane to think that.
But that's what they thought at the time.
And I think that just to kind of wrap this up on my perspective,
I think the further and further we learn about the animal kingdom,
how we did evolve from primates, which you accept alongside primates,
we are primates, that the more and more we realize
that we are part of the animal kingdom, we are animals,
that this becomes a problem for monotheistic religions,
well, at least outside of karma-based religions or something.
Which I think there's probably still a problem there,
but it still becomes a problem for theistic religions, I would say.
Well, I would say Trent Dordy wrote a book on the problem of animal suffering,
and he argues that they also very likely have an afterlife
that they can continue on in existence.
And God is being, you know, infinite.
I mean, he's not limited about the amount of beings he can allow into heaven.
Why not just continue on?
So it's this idea that God very well could have just,
one of these animals that build an identity
can continue on after existence and grow in ways
that they were limited in their animal state in this life.
So I don't think that's necessarily the end of them.
That's just their whole story.
I think very well that they are also beings that could develop
in an afterlife state where they could have a relationship with God in some way.
So I think that's part of the picture,
but there's a lot more going on there.
And I will also say the moment clean meat is mass produced,
I am so on board, and I will stop eating any sort of animal that was killed.
Yeah, well, I feel the same way about clean cheese and clean leather.
If as soon as I can get, like, work-bars me with non-leather boots,
and cheese is just as good as regular cheese,
like, oh man, I'll get way fatter.
Actually, I'm on a bit of a diet at the moment,
which is messing up my alcohol intake a little bit,
because I get a lot drunker quicker.
So moving on to some questions and answers, if that's okay with you.
So we have a lot of questions have come through.
Well, we'll probably answer them all.
Sorry, people.
Yeah, that's okay.
So I guess we'll ask...
I've got a couple of questions.
So I'm just looking through.
Okay.
So not so much a question,
but I'd like to get both your thoughts about what is said about
above Gollum's actions being direct result of being corrupted by the ring.
This is a you question.
I have no idea.
But I'd like both your thoughts about what I said about what did he say about Gollum's actions
being a direct result of the corruption of the ring.
So the ring corrupted him.
Yeah, the ring sort of corrupted him and made him into Gollum who he was.
But a lot of that also was his choices in the book.
He killed D. Goll to get the ring,
whereas Bilbo, when he had the ring, he spared Gollum.
One of them freely chose Pity, and the other one did not,
and Gandalf talks about this, how because Bilbo chose Pity,
the rings could not corrupt him like it could corrupted Gollum,
because he did not start it off with an evil act.
He started off with an act of mercy.
And thus the message is that evil authoritarianism in someone's case is self-defeating.
Yeah, it's also this idea in Lord of the Rings.
So in Lord of the Rings, at one point Frodo is actually under,
like it seems to be under the ring's spell and he curses Gollum,
and he says, if you attack me again, you will die.
I put a curse on you.
That's what happens.
It's like Gollum tries to get the ring from him,
and he falls in the Mount Doom.
It's almost like evil defeated itself.
The ring created this curse in Frodo,
which then led to Sauron's downfall.
And it's a very big theme in Lord of the Rings,
that you don't need to fret about evil,
because every Louvatar of the God of the World
is already ordained that evil is going to be defeated.
And even though you will not be powerful enough to stop it,
he is powerful enough to stop it,
and he ordained that it will be that way.
Okay, I got a question from Anjir.
This conversation is just a way of reflecting
from my early question.
What does Michael like on his pancakes,
and why is the peanut butter and maple syrup?
So first of all, peanut butter is a bombination from hell.
It will cause me to stop breathing.
Oh, are you allergic?
Yeah.
Why did God do that?
Because he's protecting me from...
Well, I never liked peanut butter when I was a kid anyway,
so he's protecting me from it.
Okay.
But obviously, maple syrup and butter,
and it has to be real maple syrup from Canada.
Okay, Swift C, question.
If God is morally progressive,
then how come in the New Testament,
there is no slavery verse?
Am I misunderstanding the moral progressive argument?
So I would say that...
Good question.
Yeah, so I would say that David de Silva
wrote his book on honor, patronage, and kinship,
and argues that there actually is.
It's in Philemon, for example.
It's also in Galatians.
This idea that humans are equal,
that you don't treat a slave as if he is somehow less than you.
And this led to, of course, as even atheists
like Tim O'Neill have pointed out,
the first abolitionists were Christians,
like Gregory of Nisa arguing from the Bible,
the big abolitionist movements of Britain.
We're Christians arguing from the Bible,
whereas a lot of the enlightened thinkers
that were more atheists were arguing things
like that we have like,
we, the white European male,
are superior to the other races,
and we can do what we want with them.
And so Tim O'Neill, who's an atheist,
he had, I think,
Ted McCormick on his channel,
they were talking about this a little bit, but indirectly.
But it was this idea that the Christians
were the one at the time
that were arguing for abolition
because they thought the Bible,
specifically the New Testament, taught this.
So I think you can make an anti-servery case from the Bible.
Is it explicit?
No, and the reason why it's not
is because Paul is doing virtue ethics,
and virtue ethics is not lay down necessarily direct commands.
Virtue ethics is trying to teach you
how to think about ethics,
how to understand virtue,
and when you get that,
then you know how to act.
That is the main goal of Paul.
And because he did that,
that's why we see abolitionist movements
coming out of Christian thought.
Just something that I thought of just now
in my drunken state
that we're gonna have to do next time you're on,
which I promise we will do one.
Well, I hope you'll come on another time.
But we'll just review cringy TikToks.
We'll do a video of that sometime on my main channel
because that's initially what you suggested.
Hey, Dave, let's do review cringy TikToks.
I said, no, let's discuss the problem of it.
Yeah, I was like, let's have some fun.
You're like, no, I want to be super serious.
No, we can do both.
Hey, we can do both.
It would be great.
But what we're gonna do next time in this,
is we're going to put a tier list together
and you're gonna rank each disciple an apostle.
So we're gonna put them in.
That is gold tier content, right?
Obviously, Bartholomew is first.
We all know why, of course.
I don't know what Bartholomew is.
I don't know.
I just said whatever.
I've been drinking too, man.
I'm just saying.
Sorry.
This is, yeah, I apologize, everyone.
I am a little bit intoxicated.
So someone space citizen said,
if Adam slash Eve in your view were immortal
and not the first humans in the garden
connected to the Tree of Life,
why were all the other humans around at the time mortal?
So I don't think they were immortal.
I think that when...
So the Bible, a lot of Old Testament scholars
have pointed this out, like John Walton.
When the Bible uses the word dust,
it is often an idiom to mean mortality.
Like in Ecclesiastes three.
So when Adam is made from dust,
when Genesis three, he said,
you are dust in the dust you are returned.
Obviously, he is not dust at that point.
He is a human being.
But God says you are dust.
It's an idiom to say you're mortal.
So they were immortal
and they were going to be allowed to be immortal
by getting access to the Tree of Life.
God cuts them off from it.
So they were not immortal
because they never got to the Tree of Life,
that kind of sense.
There was also possibly the idea
that they had to keep eating from it
to remain immortal.
So they never were actually ontologically immortal.
They were just, you know,
maybe possibly given a special tree
that allowed them to be immortal.
But humans have always been mortal
until the resurrection, of course.
But, you know, you and me will be immortal
because you'll be there, I promise.
Yay. Talk to God for me so I can come.
Oh, I can't.
Look at how it works.
You read the Bible.
So I have a question.
I have a couple of questions for you
that I'd love to get your answer for.
And I'd love you to take as much time
as you need for this one.
What is the most plausibly true religion
you don't believe in?
Okay, I've got to think about this for a second,
because I'm trying to go back to all of this.
Hey, man, deep drinks podcast.
It's been like 10 years.
I've spent too long thinking of questions.
It's been like 10 years since I put it on another.
Because I've been so focused on doing apologetics
and just focusing on reading,
studying the Bible and philosophy.
You know, it's like, you read the other religion,
and you're like, okay, I'm not convinced by these.
Anyway, let me now start getting deep into philosophy
and biblical studies now.
Okay, so I will start at the bottom.
I would say at the bottom, Mormonism, Scientology,
then Islam for sure.
Like, so get those three out of the way,
obviously at the bottom.
Can I ask quickly why Islam?
So, hello?
Because I think it is, okay, so for one thing,
it says Jesus wasn't crucified.
Something that Bart Ehrman says
is just the most obvious fact from the ancient world.
So I think it's a great question.
It's an obvious fact from the ancient world.
Like, we know he was crucified.
Your book clearly says he doesn't.
Okay, you make quite a big difference.
Can we say that or does the Quran say that?
The Quran says Jesus wasn't crucified.
It also says the Pharaoh drowned in the Red Sea
and the Pharaoh of the Exodus definitely did.
Not drowned in the Red Sea.
The Bible doesn't say the Pharaoh drowned in the Red Sea.
The Quran gets this wrong, so it has historical errors.
But also, ethically, I just think,
like, it just seems so incompatible with what we know
intuitively to be the most ethical system out there
that I just cannot, I can't even when it comes to that.
In terms of its prescriptions, they'll attack the Bible
and say, well, your Bible describes it.
No, it has descriptions of patriarchs doing bad things.
It has descriptions of others.
You know, it doesn't have prescriptions.
I think Islam is horrible.
Some of the Quran is beautiful, actually.
And so some of the Bible is beautiful.
But no offense, but I feel the same way about the Bible.
And I feel like, and please don't take offense to this,
like, I love you, but like, it feels like
the Apologist's game is to tap dance around these
and make up excuses for why we know things like slavery
and not OK and things like...
Well, I mean, I am fully willing to accept slavery
just in the Old Testament, though.
And if you want more, since we don't have time to go into it
and see my video, the misunderstood mosaic law
and the imperfect mosaic law where I talk about those things.
And I appeal to cultural context.
So I want to study it in its cultural context.
That's my argument there.
OK, so right before this, you said
so Islam, Scientology, and Mormonism are on the bottom, for sure.
OK, well, hang on a second.
I just wanted to say that I said that I was going to
just scream at you why children have cancer for two hours.
And then you said, I'll fight you.
So just in regards to the slavery issue,
we're going to do like a Logan Paul KSI fight in a ring.
And whoever wins is the, their worldview is the correct one.
Are you sure you want to do that with me?
I'm a second-degree black belt.
Oh, then definitely.
Yeah, because I'm kidding.
I get puffed out getting into the ring.
I used to do things every Tuesday at my martial arts
class called a thousand kick drills,
where we would do a thousand kick drills.
Oh, jeez.
I did karate, I got up to orange belt,
but I felt like my sensei didn't want me to give me the orange belt
because I wasn't good enough that he technically passed me.
So I never actually got the orange belt,
but I got two, I got a yellow belt with two orange stripes.
Anyway, what were you saying?
I would say maybe it'd be some sort of Eastern religion.
Maybe, maybe Buddhism, perhaps.
I do like Buddhism.
I do really like reading the literature and Buddhism.
I think it's quite interesting.
Maybe some new age philosophy as well as a possibility.
Maybe even Stoicism.
Man, something that reads Seneca.
Kind of, I mean, what is a religion?
You define it.
Good luck, because philosophy is candy.
Exactly.
Stoicism seems to kind of be, but I mean, when you read Seneca,
man, Seneca is beautiful.
I almost like sometimes I'm like, man, like Seneca is amazing.
Just to show off some cool books.
This book I picked up in, in Byron Bay.
Have you read it?
The thing about religion?
No, I've not.
So the only reason it stood out to me is because it was
$75 in a Byron Bay bookstore.
And I was like, why is this worth $75,
which is probably like $50 US, right?
It is amazing.
The reason it's so good is because it's so niche.
And, but it's amazing.
And it talks about, you know, about religion.
It's all right.
It talks about religion from a, like,
from a materialist perspective, like the things in religion.
Fantastic.
Definitely recommend you read it.
I think you'd be all about it.
Okay, cool.
Yeah.
So finishing your question.
Stoicism.
I don't know.
I'd be some sort of like Stoist, maybe like a Stoist theist,
perhaps like a Neo Stoist,
like not believe in their like pantheism,
but maybe like all of those principles.
That kind of sense.
Definitely very big and Aristotle for sure.
Okay.
If you could choose an afterlife,
and this is, these are the questions I ask everyone now,
and they keep growing.
I had one now, it's two now, it's three.
So we've got three.
So if you could choose an afterlife,
and it would immediately become true for you,
which afterlife would you choose?
I'd be born as Frodo Baggins in Middle Earth.
Is that a, is that a proper afterlife?
I would be born, if you, if honestly,
if a genie I could make a wish,
I would be born as Frodo Baggins in Middle Earth
and go through all of his experiences,
everything to mount down.
It was horrible, right?
It was like a horrible experience.
Exactly.
Gandalf, 100% Gandalf,
is way better than Frodo.
Really?
No, I'd be Frodo, absolutely be Frodo Baggins, yes.
Well, well, I'd be your Sam, okay?
Michael, I'd be your Sam.
Here's the chubby one.
That's me.
Okay, and last question,
unless we have some, a few more questions,
but this is the last question before we wrap up.
I'm not sure if I asked this the first time,
but I'll ask this time.
What, if anything, would change your mind
on the existence of God?
If you shave your beard?
Don't tempt me.
See, you're not going to do it, I do it.
Bonus question, what would you do
if you discovered that you no longer believed in Christianity?
Like what would happen to inspiring philosophy
when you give it to someone else,
or would you change the concepts around it to be, you know?
Okay, here's something I'll tell you
that I've never told anybody.
So don't tell anybody.
So don't put this online or anything.
All right, all right.
Honestly, I chose, part of the reason
I chose inspiring philosophy
is because I was going through a doubting phase.
And I was like, am I going to be a Christian in a year?
And debating atheists online just made me,
wow, their arguments suck in my view.
I was like, this just makes me continue on.
It was, I was going through a hard phase.
I had just gone down to college.
I wasn't getting a job.
I was worried I wasn't going to be able to provide
for my wife, which was a big thing for me.
And I was like, I said,
I'm doing this stupid security job.
I'll make a channel and put some videos out there
and see if anybody can convince me not to be a Christian.
And I've struggled with that for years.
And now I'm more than willing to accept
that I was going through that doubting phase
and it was okay at the time
and it made me into a better person.
But if I did de-convert,
I would be something like a Tom Holland or a Timonial Atheist.
I recognize obviously that Christianity is a moral good.
I recognize we need to keep it.
We need to fight for it.
It has a lot of good history to it.
It's brought us a lot of good.
All of our ethics come from that worldview.
And I would not definitely be an atheist apologist.
I don't even understand some of these people
who think that it would be great for religion
to be completely wiped off the face of the earth.
You obviously don't know history or sociology or psychology.
I would be one of those people that says,
look at all the good Christianity is done.
We need to encourage it, even if I don't believe it.
So I'd probably focus on the history of Christianity,
you know, the good it brought about, focus on sociology.
A lot of the studies are already been focusing on
showing that Christianity, at least all these moral goods,
all these good sociological benefits, that kind of thing.
Or I might just, you know, try to get really good at investing
and live a pleasurable life and, you know, die peacefully or something.
I mean, like, you know, that kind of thing.
It's funny that people view atheism as almost like a nihilism.
Like, oh yeah, just like, you know, like,
and my relationship would become polyamorous
and I would do drugs every day.
And like, you know, it just seems like, yeah.
But yeah, definitely wouldn't be.
But yeah, I was going through a phase
where I was just sort of like, let me just pick a channel name
that, you know, maybe I could still continue on,
even if I don't become a Christian.
But I mean, like, I think it worked out in the long run.
But, you know, it's just one of those times it's like,
this is not what I thought my life was going to be, you know.
And then, of course, it got worse out.
I actually got worse.
It's really kind of one of those ironies
because it got worse until about 2014.
Now, so like, I started my channel 2011
when I was doubting and some certain things.
But it was more like emotional now, I feel like it was.
This is not how my life was supposed to be kind of thing.
And then like, I started debating atheists
and I started to get more strength into my face
as my life feel like it got worse after that.
But it's like, it's weird the way that kind of worked out.
And then like, honestly, it's like, it was just like a good,
like six or seven years of just struggling, fighting.
And holy crap, we got a nickel.
We can, we need to put that in the bank kind of thing.
Would you say that like your perspective changed in those years?
Sorry, if this is, if you want to go, just let me know.
Just like, give me a thumbs up or something in the chat.
But like, this is interesting to me.
Okay. Is this something that, is this something that like you,
you change your perspective on?
Like, were you like a young Earth creationist following
Kent Hoven and then you went for your old Earth creationists?
Okay. So you're not an old Earth creationist.
Now you're a theistic evolutionist, as I remember.
Okay, cool. So was, was a lot of that, do you think like the shedding of those
like early ideas, the conflict between like, yeah, okay, that makes sense.
Well, I mean, a lot of it was like, I mean, honestly, the best thing for me on,
and this is why I said I would pick Frodo Baggins to go through his suffering,
to go through his cause.
I realized looking back on my life, I'm so happy I went through that stuff.
It made me into what I am.
And I would not change anything.
If you could let me go back in time and change things, I wouldn't.
I'm happy where I'm at.
I'm glad that this, that I am who God made me to be.
And I'm thankful for all that that I went through.
And I was just talking with a mother on TikTok.
We did a TikTok live and then she posted on her YouTube channel.
It's joyful and rising if anybody wants to listen to it.
So it's a YouTube channel, joyful and rising,
but she's much bigger on TikTok.
And she's a mother of a special needs child.
And she said the same thing.
She would not go back and change things.
We're happy for the suffering that God has given us.
It has turned us into what we want to be.
And we would not, we would not go back and change that.
I thank God for making me an atheist.
How, how, how you use my words against me, sir?
Sorry, I'm just mucking around.
You know, you know, you know, we're, we're good here.
But the, and like something I joked about online before is like Christians hate him,
atheists hate him and deep drinks loves him.
It seems like you do get hate from both sides.
Like it seems like Christians.
Oh, do I? Oh, do I ever?
Like, I get annoyed.
People are telling you to unalive yourself.
And it's just ridiculous.
Like people are telling you to unalive yourself.
And it's like, this is disgusting.
Yeah, I always find it funny that like, I've saw a tweet a while ago,
like a couple of years ago, but one atheist said,
you Christians don't understand what we de-converted Christians go through
with all the hate mail we get.
And I was laughing.
I was like, like, oh yeah, you don't.
Like I get it from the same people you get it from,
but also I get it from people on your side as well.
Like I'm right in the middle.
Like so.
Okay.
All right.
So I'm writing this down.
So we're going to do a disciple slash apostle key list.
And we're going to do a hate mail read.
And we're going to do a hate mail through that.
We said I think you get a lot of hate mail.
And we're going to talk about Lord of the Rings.
Exactly.
Absolutely.
We did talk about Lord of the Rings.
Who are you beginning hate mail from?
Sorry you said.
A lot of people mad at me for TikTok videos
because I responded to this black chick.
She's a very charismatic, lovely girl,
but she said this stupid thing that we have green skin.
And I was like, have you looked in a mirror?
We don't.
No one does.
And so I responded to her really bad arguments,
but that video blew up on TikTok.
It's got like 700,000 views.
And I got a lot of good feedback from African Americans
that were happy, but I also got a lot of hate mail
from some African Americans who were mad at me
for even going after a black woman.
And I'm like, I never attacked her skin color.
I think she's a lovely lady.
I think she's charismatic.
I think her heart is in the right place.
Her mind isn't, though.
She wants to learn more, but she's on the wrong path.
And so I'm just correcting bad information.
This is nothing to do with skin color,
but it pissed a lot of people off, but it is what it is.
But surprisingly, we get a lot of hate mail
from that lately for some reason.
Yeah, it's a weird thing.
It's like the same with, and don't get me wrong,
I am a huge supporter of the LGBT community.
I don't know where you say, well, go into that if you...
But I support transgender people and everything.
Like, I'm huge.
But if you disagree with a trans person online,
you're called transphobic a lot of the time.
About the issues that aren't even related,
and this is what happened to me, but I've just witnessed it,
that issues aren't even related to transgenderism at all.
Like, you could disagree on, like, the person to...
A politician to vote for.
Or I ask the question the other day is...
Because someone pointed out to me that if you support Harry Potter,
that you're supporting transphobia.
And I was like, that seems weird to me.
But I was like, okay, I'm willing to learn.
So I posted a poll, and some people said yes.
It is transphobic to support Harry Potter.
Some people said no, and no one said maybe.
So, like, I'm willing to learn.
But at the same time, like, that is...
I don't know.
Let's not get into that.
I don't want to cancel myself.
But like, I'm a huge supporter of...
It just seems horrible that these...
Just to put up on that, it just seems horrible that these people
have to, like, justify their existence all the time.
But anyway, I did want to...
There was one last thing I wanted to quickly mention.
Oh, I wanted to ask you.
Is do you mind...
And if this is not okay, tell me it's not okay.
To pop your shirt off.
No, I'm just kidding.
To how...
You're going to have to donate first before I'm kidding.
Have you got some sick tattoos?
What is that tattoo?
I always see it.
What is it?
Oh, yeah.
This is incomplete.
I need to finish it, but I've not had the money to finish it.
But it's supposed to be a Celtic wing that I want to sort of like.
So, hold on.
So...
Yeah, cool.
Yeah.
So, if you could see...
That's cool.
That's the first part.
I wanted to kind of go around the back and, like, come over here.
Almost like...
It's almost like an armor thing.
So, I'm thinking of maybe, like, doing, like, some sort of, like,
thing here and then, like, finishing around the back.
Like, it's like an armor thing that would sit on me.
And then I would get a Celtic cross somewhere in there as well.
I've got somewhere in here.
I've got the Celtic cross.
You can't really see it.
But anyway, I've got a Celtic cross.
Two-Pak had on his back.
And then Justin Bieber got it.
And it was very uncool for a while.
Same cross.
And then now Justin Bieber's cool.
So, it's cool.
So, anyway.
But what I wanted to ask was...
And it says,
therefore, if the sun sets you free, you're free indeed,
which is a scripture that spoke to me at a conference,
made boiling wires out and got tatted on me.
But the something I do want to ask you, though,
is how did your...
Is it your wife, Amy, or your partner?
How did she...
Did she... Has her faith sweated all in the process,
if you're going all through this?
Or is she much like my wife,
where she's just wondering
where the next glass of wine and cheeseboard is
so she can chill out and have a good time?
I promised I would not talk about her online.
So, I'm not saying...
Okay.
That's fine.
That's fine.
We're Christians.
I mean, that's all I'll say.
Okay.
All right.
Cool.
Yeah.
No worries.
It's funny with...
Like I said, with my wife, she's very much...
She's very much like...
I come to her like,
oh, my God, my worldview just collapsed.
And she's like, okay, cool.
Like, do you want a cheeseboard?
I'm cutting up some...
And I'm just like, okay.
Like, we're very much different.
And it's a beautiful thing.
But anyway.
Well, Michael, thank you so much
for coming on The Deep Drinks Podcast.
It's been an absolute pleasure.
Thank you for staying longer than 90 minutes.
It's been awesome.
And everyone, make sure you go check out Michael's stuff.
It's good fun, even for people who aren't Christians.
It's a...
He explores some really interesting concepts.
The...
You recently just released,
besides the Lord of the Rings video,
that we're releasing soon,
you've recently released a episode
on the Exodus rediscovered,
which I would absolutely love to see.
You and Dr. Josh talk about that,
because obviously you might have
difference of opinions.
Oh, I'd love to, yeah.
Absolutely.
I would totally love to talk about the Exodus,
like with anyone.
But I mean, I might firehose my case,
just to be fair.
Well, to...
I have known nothing about the Exodus.
To me, I was a New Testament kind of Christian.
I didn't really care about the Old Testament.
But Dr. Josh, I know it's his jam.
And on Deep Drinks podcast,
we call him Daddy Josh,
because he's been on twice,
and he is the...
What's with you?
You know, boys and daddies.
Hey, man, this is what the Healings do.
This is what the atheists do, man.
When you come over here,
you call people good boys and daddies.
Like, this is just what we do, all right?
Yeah, motherfuckers need Jesus.
And I love to end on that.
Your motherfuckers need Jesus.
Thank you so much for showing up.
And this has been an amazing podcast.
See you all later.
And make sure you check out next week
where we having Tate on.
And then the following week,
we have talking about Essie with Read.
Nice one, Duh.
I'm drunk.
See you later.
