What altar or refuge can a man find for himself when he commits treason against the majesty of reason?
Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcast, the deepest podcast on the internet. Today my guest is
Joe Spitt who is the author of Majesty of Reason which is an amazing book, a short guide to critical
thinking in philosophy and the co-authored existential inertia and classical theistic
proofs. He runs a YouTube channel, Twitter and blog under the same name. You may have seen him on
Cosmic Skeptic, Rationality Rules, Capturing Christianity, Pints with Aquinas, and he did
a 12-hour live stream responding to 150 philosophical reasons to believe in God.
Ask him about his G.J. voice. Welcome, Joe Spitt, Majesty of Reason. Thank you so much for coming
on man. Thank you for having me. I've been looking forward to this. This is probably the most unique
invite that I ever got. I got an email and I'm like, hey, we have drinks while we talk and I'm
like, oh, that's interesting. I'm down. So I brought my life. That's awesome. I'm so glad. Yeah,
I feel like I'd get half the guests that I invite on if I didn't have such a weird gimmick. But
yeah, it's interesting. The drinks, that's the tone of the interview, right? So what are we
drinking today? Savva Blanc. That's what we've got. And I've got a whole bottle next to me. So
I might be messy by the end. I know you probably don't drink as much as I do. I was an Australian,
but me it's 9.30 a.m. and I'm having a grand old time so far. That's the first thing I've had all
day. I haven't had coffee. It's good. It's a nice fruity kind of herbal drink of call. I like it.
It's wonderful. Yeah, it's awesome. Yeah, it's actually strange to, I think this is the first
time I've had Savva Blanc on the channel. Like, I don't know if I've actually done Savva Blanc, but
yeah. So I want to do something a little bit cringey to start off. I guess not cringey,
but like some people don't like it. But I'm going to read a little section of your book,
which is the very start, how you open it up and you say, polarization ravages our current
ideological climate. The battle of idea rages on among disagreeing factions of society,
warring parties, proudly waving their flags of allegiance, gear up for ideological battle.
Such tribalism festers in countless domains of inquiry. But what is tribalism and what is the
antidote to this division? And I'm like, that I've read that those lines. And I was like,
this book, I did just totally open up this book. Can you tell me a little bit about why you read
the book? Why you wrote the book? Sorry. And like, what was his purpose primarily?
Yeah, I guess the main purpose is just to help people think critically about philosophy and
philosophical topics, help people think critically and philosophically, basically just to give them
tools for their philosophical and conceptual toolkit to be able to analyze arguments, assess
claims, weigh evidence, things like that, specifically within the domain of philosophy,
and lots of interesting questions like God's existence and the nature of reality and the
nature of the mind and its relation to the body and things like that, all these cool philosophical
questions. So yeah, the goal is really just to help people to help people think critically and
philosophically about these deep topics. And what else kind of motivated me to write the book was
that a lot of introductions to critical thinking, or a lot of introductions to philosophy,
they're not as focused on, I guess, the intellectual virtues that you need in order to
do philosophy well, or at least in my view, that you need in order to do philosophy well.
So I think the foundation of philosophy and the foundation of critical thinking is having the
right kind of state of mind and habits and character to be able to engage in it. You need to
be appropriately truth oriented, appropriately love oriented, you need to be open minded,
you need to have intellectual curiosity and perseverance, and all these sorts of intellectual
virtues combined with moral virtues that I think serve as the foundation for further
philosophical inquiry. Without those, I think you're just kind of foundationless. I mean,
you might be going into philosophy to just kind of bolster up your own tribe, or just kind of
beat someone up, or just try to convince them of things rather than being aimed towards the truth
and aimed towards serving others. So it's that kind of lack of emphasis on intellectual virtues
that I saw in other introductions to critical thinking that I was like, I kind of want to
redress that. So in comes my book. And it really does address that too. It really,
it kind of re-sparked in me the importance of truth, I guess, because in the YouTube game,
you kind of like, it's very easy to want to like clickbait things, which I guess,
clickbaiting is fine, I think, in some, you know, in a certain context, but it's like,
you kind of want to like twist things because you kind of rewarded for the most like outrageous
perspective or the most polarizing view and like giving a fair critique of something isn't
necessarily, doesn't get the most views like a lot of the time, like, and so like it really,
this book really like bring it back for me. And I was like, remember, it's about, it's actually
about truth. It's not about any of this other like stuff that's going on this, this intellectual
pursuit. I'm actually, funny stories, I'm doing a video on Abraham at the moment,
and the question is, was Abraham insane? Like, could you look at what Abraham, you know,
hearing voices, God told me to kill my son, you know, all those things. And when I, when you
look at the literature, like the, it's been studied, it's like, well, we don't have enough
information to be able to say that he's insane. But like, part of me wants to be like, yes,
he was insane. Like, yes, he was a nut job. Look at this, like a moral and like, and like,
virtue signal to everyone who's like, yeah, and so all the atheists can get mad together about
like how disgusting Abraham is and or whatever. But like, that's not actually what the literature
kind of like points to. And so it's like this constant battle. And I think your book kind of,
yeah, it really, it really provided me of my, of my, the core reasons I got into
these conversations in the first place, which was the pursuit of truth.
Yeah. That's awesome. That's awesome. And it kind of has a concrete application to your life.
I mean, this, I found the same with mine, like everywhere, I just found that even my channel
is almost like a crusade against, well, as Thomas Jefferson put it, a crusade against
ignorance, but my like, it's a crusade against epistemic vice in some sense. Like, I see people
who are overly confident in certain views, or I see people wielding or weaponizing arguments.
And that, I just don't like that. And so I try to push back against that and to show that these
matters are oftentimes much more complex and people let on, they try to expose people to
different viewpoints, different objections. I owe, I have lots of people on my channel who
disagree with me and I disagree with them. And I'm constantly trying to criticize both the
theistic and atheistic sides. So it's, it's a bit of a rough situation. It's hard to garner support.
It's hard to garner a kind of a following because you're not staking your flag in a particular tribe
on a particular side. I mean, I very often do like, I think, for instance, that the column
cosmological argument fails and I will make videos criticizing it. So I certainly take
stances on things, but I don't fall into this like neat category of, you know, like Christian
theist who's going to uphold orthodoxy on or like, you know, orthodox atheists where, you know,
you got to, you got to go down the list of the materialism, atheism, nihilism, you know,
those sorts of things. So it's like, yeah, everything is much more complex and I don't
fit neatly into categories. And so it makes it difficult to have a kind of rallying cry. But
for me, for me, the rallying cry is intellectual virtue and epistemic virtue and crusading against
epistemic advice. Of course, just want to say before I turn it back over to you, I'm not perfect
in that. And I fall into epistemic advice all the time, right? All the time. I work on it, right?
I try. That's, that's the whole purpose of Madison of Reason is to try to help
the audience and me to get better at these things. So yeah. Yeah, yeah. Do you think
just my brain went to like a million different like areas that just then when you said that,
but it's, it's the whole thing, like I hate partisan politics and I hate tribalism. How do
you like, how do you, so I've been challenged recently, right? I had someone on the, I had
someone on who associated with someone who was like a white supremacist or something like that.
And it was like, how, how do you have someone on who is friends with someone who like, it was like,
you know, it steps removed or whatever. And I was like, look what they've like, and it was like a
hard thing for me. Cause I'm like, no, I want to have, I'd have a conversation with a white
supremacist as long as like, I could not platform their idea. Like as long as I could critique
their ideas in a way that would make them look worse walking away from it. I don't want to like
build new white supremacists or whatever. But it's like, how do you, how do you have
con, hard conversations like that about like these big ideas? Or I guess, like, I guess
ideas around God and stuff like they're not super like, well, they could be, but they're not super
harmful in, in like an everyday life. But like, do you have like things that you won't have
conversations about like safe? So like a, a race realist wanted to come on and talk to you about
like the benefits of an ethno state or like, like someone wanted to come talk to you about like,
you know, like something horrible, like the Jews control everything or something ridiculous
like that. Like what, like, would you be like, okay, well, let's have a, let's have a reason
to respond. Let's have a reason discussion. Like, oh, or is there like any room for like, no, you
like, for these people, at least like ideas, you should say like, like, fuck off. Like you don't,
like you don't even engage with them. Like what are your thoughts on that? Because I'm conflicted
at the moment. I want to have conversations with everyone, but I kind of have this, I live in
this fantasy world where I believe that most people have good faith and they're either just
misunderstand, I'm either misunderstanding or they're misunderstanding. But yeah, what do you
think about that? Oh man, so we're starting with the hard hitters, aren't we? And especially after
wine, like, oh my goodness, this is not the time. No. So I mean, we can distinguish between
personal conversations and public conversations. And yeah, public conversations, what venue it's on
or yeah, so, so that's a really important distinction. So in terms of public conversations,
I don't know, I mean, I pick my fights very wisely there for various reasons. I mean,
for one thing, I just don't take certain views very seriously. And I just am not really interested
in engaging in many views that I don't take seriously at all. So that's, that's one thing
that's kind of just a personal proclivity. And for another thing, you know, there's the potential
harms involved, where I think an idea is just so overwhelmingly absurd, but there's a potential harm
of platforming an individual and then, you know, the harms accruing they're from. So there's like
potential harms that you have to look at, of course, either way that with the benefits as well.
But anyway, it's kind of like a complex assessment. And I guess my proclivities usually just aren't
for that kind of public spectacle, super duper high controversial things. Another thing to keep
in mind is that I need to go on the job market and philosophy eventually. And
yeah, you don't want to be talking to like, yeah, yeah, exactly. And like your views and public
engagements do matter for that. I mean, it's not like, you know, if you're like, anomalous,
they won't hire you. And if you're a Platonist, they will, you know, that that's not how it works.
But like, if you're seeing, I don't know, associating with someone who has, let's say,
like ethno nationalist views, even if it's like debating against them or platforming them in
some way, like that could be a major red flag for hiring committees and so on. So like, I stay
away from these sorts of political social topics for the most part, in terms of public dialogues.
And it's kind of just like a personal policy. Firstly, secondly, my proclivities are just
much more metaphysical, as it were. I'm just, I'm just a philosophy nerd, like just totally a
philosophy nerd, like, I'm into metaphysics and philosophy of time and like, man, these different
views of persistence and like this very abstract stuff that I just find utterly fascinating. And
I'm just not as interested in how a bunch of like apes get along for like a few decades.
To be sure, that's very important. And I'm very glad.
No, it is. Yeah, it is. We, we actually had,
so Sharon Q's in the chat and she said, I'm just here to see,
just see Joe get, if Joe gets drunk, he doesn't seem drunk. So I'm disappointed.
We're getting there. We just started.
I didn't pour much wine, but we'll get, we'll get there. We'll get there. But I'll definitely
will be. I've got a whole bottle and it's 9am and this is the first thing I've had. But the,
so, so this is actually interesting situation for me. So I recently, like I got called out by
Chrissy online and, and she called me out like a few times. We ended up having like a bit of a
Twitter beef for like all of 30 minutes. And then I was like, look, I was like, this is like
getting out of control. And so I called her and we spoke for like an hour and a half. We've become
like buddies, like, and I think she's coming on the channel. And now we're like, like, we're going
to have like an open conversation about this because I see there's like, there's the benefit of the
Louis Thoreau's of the world, right? Who go to like the Westboro Baptist Church and talk to like
really horrible, disgusting people with bad ideologies. But then, and then there are people who,
but then there's like me, where I'm also putting myself kind of in a human rights perspective,
where I'm talking about like women's rights and, and, you know, women and Islam and, and LGBT
rights and things like that. And it's like, then I bring, if I bring on someone, let's say, like,
because I was kind of open to bring on anyone, like, let's say I bring on someone who's like,
yeah, like, homosexuality is demons or something. And I have a conversation with them, right, which
there are people who believe that, right? It's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, I don't know
if inherently that conversation is negative, like even if like a platform that I dig, I think that
one specifically is, is, is quite silly. But, and it's not like something that the mainstream
opinion is going to change on. But it's like, I'm kind of sending mixed messages a little bit.
And it's like, how do I navigate that of like, having conversations that a lot of the time people
find my channel helps them in their like journeys, like deconstructing their faith, or maybe, and
it's not just an atheist channel, like maybe they find a different understanding of God or
something, and it helps them. And then all of a sudden, I'm like bringing on people who are like
negatively impacting the space. So I don't know, it's going to mean interest conversation.
No, that's good. So I just want to bounce off that a little bit. So I mean, this brings me back
to my distinction. So I cut, I touched on the public aspect. So there are like personal proclivity
reasons why I don't engage in public discussions with people with very extreme views like that.
There are potential job market reasons. There are, there's the weighing of costs and benefits.
And I think that's probably just going to be a case by case basis.
And for, for the audience, I mean, we're not right here talking about whether or not people
should have like the right to express themselves in these extremist ways. We're talking about
whether or not we as private citizens should like engage them, the kind of normative moral
question of whether it's like permissible or impermissible or maybe even obligatory to engage
them. So yeah, that's what we're focused on. Anyway, just for people who don't, I don't want
people to misinterpret me. But yeah, anyway, we've been focusing on the public side. But there is
that kind of private side where it's just the more personal conversations. And I've had many
personal conversations with many different people of many different viewpoints, some of which are
rather extreme. And I've been able to, for me, it's called family lunch. But yeah, yeah, my family
has some wack belief. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh my goodness. Yeah. So I have had such conversations
in like I try to make a case that their views are mistaken and do it with gentleness and respect
to the extent that I can. Because I think that's the best way to try to help them out of their
belief system. So yeah, I guess the personal side and the public side are different. Like on the
personal side, I'm much more willing to engage in those conversations than on the public side,
for those various reasons. There is that, man, you said something and I really wanted to bounce
off of it. But I forget. So what were you saying right before you turn it back over me? Because
I really wanted to touch on that point. Oh, no, now I remember. Now I remember. I actually see some
of my channel as like, I guess, indirectly touching on lots of these topics. Because what I'm trying
to do is give people the methods and tools to be able to think critically about any topic whatsoever.
And to kind of develop the habits and the dispositions to equip themselves or I guess to
kind of inoculate themselves against that kind of nonsense and extremism and so on. Or if they're
within that and they come across my channel, they see this alternative way of approaching things
with a kind of open-mindedness and humility and respect and so on, all these sorts of things.
So I'm sort of trying to give them the methods and tools to be able to think critically,
them as in my audience, the methods and tools to be able to think critically about these topics.
And that can kind of, I hope, at least help to inoculate them against these vicious ideas or
things like that. Yeah. And it's like, I think that's what, that's like Neil deGrasse Tyson,
what he does, which is sometimes we pray here to Neil deGrasse Tyson and thank him for giving us
this scientific method. But no, but he does that. He's like, don't teach, teach people how to think,
not what to think necessarily. And I think that's like, that's so awesome. He has them.
Yeah, exactly. He has this perspective. I'm just a random aside. We recently had a baby
atlas and he's like 12 weeks old. Congrats. Thank you. And we're talking about like,
do you teach them like Santa, the tooth fairy and all this stuff. And Neil deGrasse Tyson has
this amazing bit where he talks about like, he's like, we told, he said, he told his kids that
they heard about the tooth fairy, but they don't know if it's true or not. And they told him the
information. And the kids started to design experiments to determine whether or not the
tooth fairy was real. So they're like, let's not tell our parents that let's not tell anyone we
put the tooth under the pillow, and then we'll see if there's money. And like, they let's put
tinfoil on the floor to see if we wake up when any performed experiments to debunk the tooth fairy.
They still had like, the ability to like, the ability to like, you know, imagine like this world,
the fairies at the bottom of the garden kind of thing. But it's like, but then when it comes to
like, you know, brass tacks, like, do I actually believe this? They've been experiments. And I
think that was really cool. That was pretty cool. That is pretty cool. There's also another thing
that I should say. And it's like, you might not see it, but like, some of the things that I'm doing
already are implicitly kind of, I guess, tackling some of the philosophical assumptions behind
certain potentially harmful views, like fascist views and things like that. So I know, for instance,
a lot of people who, well, anyway, I'm not going to get into the details, but
there are certain topics on my channel where when I address them and when I criticize them,
it's kind of indirectly going after the foundations of some fascist views. So for instance, there are
theocratic fascists who kind of wield religion or try to employ religion or God or something like that
to either legitimize or to serve as some important role in their fascist views.
And an important project in addressing that is, of course, the kind of political philosophy you
could say like, well, okay, whether or not like God exists, like this is a very crappy political
philosophy and things like that. But you can also just go directly to their metaphysical assumptions,
like that there is such a God or that God can do these things. And like, they have certain
arguments for it. And I'm just going to be like, no, all those arguments, you know, those arguments
don't succeed. So your belief is just totally unjustified. So it's like, it's going after
certain elements of their views. And I like, I take pride in like implicitly or indirectly
in some of my work, going after some of the implicit foundations behind certain harmful
fascist strands. So I'll just say that I get the I get the feeling that you you're not you don't
really you're not a huge moral philosophy per like, you don't care so much about moral philosophy
as much as like, the metaphysics and you know, philosophy of mind and things like that. Is that
true? So just in my personal interests, I do a lot more research in metaphysics, like philosophy
of time, philosophy of religion, than in things like ethics and political philosophy. So that is
kind of true. Yeah, it's not to say they're not interested in those things. But I just am not
as interested in those as I am in philosophy of time or things like that. Yeah. So you have this
like this contagious love for philosophy. If you could like think of like what philosophy is in
your mind, like in a visual image. So is it like a chessboard for you? Is it like a what is philosophy?
If you think of like philosophy as like, what is it in a visual apparatus? Good. What is philosophy?
Like, what comes to mind when you it's kind of like a gadfly, honestly, you know, like,
what's what's his name Socrates was the gadfly of Athens, like he's something that's kind of a
little bit pestering, but is always around and you can't really get rid of him and kind of just
nods you into thinking about something. So that's kind of what philosophy is. Philosophy is like
the gadfly that is like just constantly there, you can't avoid it, you're swimming in it, like
either implicitly or explicitly, you have certain philosophical views of the world, and they're
either going to go unexamined, which is bad, or you're going to actually roll your sleeves up and
start doing philosophy well, and start critically examining your assumptions. So it's the gadfly
there that's there to kind of provoke you into thought. And that's always there, you can't
really get rid of it. And it's slightly annoying. And it's, you know, because I mean, philosophy
is difficult, right? It's very difficult. I directly. I just have to think about it's funny,
because I was like, I was like, this happens a lot of time when I'm reading a book, I'm like,
is he, is he talent? Is he like using some like fancy word for something? Or is he actually
talking about a fly? So I just googled gadfly. And sure enough, like images of flies come up,
but it's funny that there's like a little image of like Socrates with the little
Yeah, exactly. Exactly. So it's a gadfly, right? It's, it's, it's sometimes it's like
imperceptible, like there are underlying assumptions that you don't, you're not aware of,
but like, you know, something is there and you need to dig deeper. So it's a kind of prodding
force. And it's sometimes annoying. It's difficult. It's, it's messy. It's rough. But it's there to
prod you into thought and into action. And it's there to kind of pest you with these questions.
And to kind of help you lead an examined life. So I'd say it's like a gadfly. I mean, more
generally, what is philosophy other than this kind of metaphorical or whatever I'm developing here,
I'm not a literary scholar. So I don't know what the proper term is.
Is that like, is that what you envision in your head? Like, you like, when I'm doing
philosophy, I see like a gadfly, like, like, it's like, it's like something I'm removing or
something I'm fixing, like, is like, you're, you're, you've got a gadfly and you're trying to
like, scratch that itch. Is that what it is? Or is it?
That's funny. When I played the high school soccer, people, you know, like some of my friends would
go to the games and, you know, like, some of them would hold up like Schmid's the kid or something
like that like shines. It was funny. Kind of lame, but you know, man, the memories. But, but yeah,
so no, that's not really in my head. I mean, what am I thinking? I mean, what's in my head is like
the philosophical issue. And I'm trying what I'm trying to do is just to get at the truth of the
matter or at least gain a greater understanding of the matter, right, to make certain conceptual
distinctions, ultimately to come to knowledge or justified belief or maybe truth on the matter.
Right. So like whether God exists, you know, I'm kind of sitting there in the moment, I'm trying
to find something out. It's more like the the phenomenology of it is basically like inquiry
or something like that, trying to find out something and wrestling or grappling with something.
So it's really that. Yeah, it's, yeah. And for me, I like to think of like, I wrote,
I wrote down something. So my, my, I guess, realm, like my where my like philosophy for
me starts and ends was when I was a young earth creationist, and I was like learning about
evolution, I wrote this document called the objective truth of origins. And I would like
look at evidence. And I'll be like, I'm like, I need to remove my presuppositions. I need to
like forget the fact that I'm a Christian, and I need to look at this evidence, like,
where does it lead? And I wrote this thing in that document, and it ended up just being a big
much notes, eventually, like 50 pages of notes. But one of them I said, like, I want to push into
cognitive dissonance, like a good workout, like you need to like, you need to like find something
that, that, that makes you want to like, scream, falsely jargonate someone to like win your point.
And you need to like, why is it, why is that doing that to me? Like why, and like push into that,
like, why do I have that emotional reaction? Why is this the, the best way to interpret things?
Like, am I wrong in this? Like, why do I feel like this? And yeah, and that's for me that that's,
that's primarily where my philosophy kind of started and it's kind of stayed at. I haven't
gained too much more knowledge since those years, but I still find it relatively interesting.
Yeah, exactly. And I mean, philosophy is so much, I mean, challenging, that that's kind of what
it's like leaning into the challenge of sorts. Like, true seeking is incredibly difficult,
especially on these kind of abstract matters. And so you just have to be very regimented,
you have to be extremely careful, you got to go slowly, you got to just think through these
matters, think through the relevant objections, the relevant arguments, the arguments that people
on one side give, and then the arguments that people in the other side give and try to weigh them.
And yeah, it's just a very complex process. That's kind of how I see it. But I found that,
you know, over, over the years studying it, I've come to a lot of greater insights and a lot of
greater understanding or greater vision of reality.
So just before we continue, and I want to ask you some questions about God,
because you have all the answers and you've solved it, you've solved philosophy of religion.
But I want to, so before we do that, I want to, everyone, go purchase Majesty of Reason,
if you like this kind of stuff, it's a fantastic book. It's really easy to understand for like,
layman, like myself, it's fantastic. Joe also has a Majesty of Reason YouTube channel,
you can check out. And your next book, Existential Inertia in Classical Theistic Proofs,
which I'll ask you about in a little bit. And then you also have a website, which is,
people can go check out as well. All those links will be in the description and also in the chat.
But I want to just quickly touch on something. You did 12 hours where you just talked about
100, was it 100 or 150 reasons? Over 150. Yeah, over 150 arguments for the existence of God.
So first of all, you obviously weren't convinced of them because you wanted to sin.
So what's your favorite sin? What is my favorite sin? No, I'm kidding. But that is a question I
sometimes ask. I was going to say, cursing my enemies probably. That's what I was going to say.
But so with this, what were the most convincing arguments for the existence of God do you find?
Oh, good question. Well, actually, I should probably ask you, how do you define yourself?
I know that you're an agnostic. And I think I've seen you talk about,
actually, let's back right up. This is the super professional on my end. But I remember seeing
you once, do you write papers defending theistic belief systems, right? Sometimes. Theistic ideas.
Occasionally, yes. More often is critical, but sometimes I defend them. Yes.
Yeah, that's so cool. And Bet, you consider yourself probably an agnostic and you recently
talked about the terms atheism and non-theism. Is that right? Yeah, I mean, so as I follow,
I basically follow how contemporary philosophers use them because I think it's the clearest,
simplest, most helpful way to kind of demarcate conceptual space. And basically, right, whenever
there's a proposition, a proposition is like a statement or a claim about how the world is.
So there's the claim that, let's say, the number of stars in existence is even.
Okay, whenever there's a proposition or a claim like that, you can either believe it or you can
not believe it. Now, under that category of not believing it, you can just subdivide that. There
are the people who disbelieve it, that is, who believe that that claim is false. And then those
who don't believe that that claim is false, right? So then we get three different categories,
those who believe that the claim is true, those who believe that the claim is false,
and those who neither believe that it's true nor believe that it's false, right? Those are three
exhaustive categories. For any given proposition, those are three exhaustive categories about
ones like doxastic states that they can take toward them. Doxastic, doxa is Greek for belief,
so these are like belief-like states. You can either believe it, you can disbelieve it, that
is, believe that it's false. Or you can suspend judgment, you can neither believe nor disbelieve
it. Okay, those are only three possible options. And so very naturally, philosophers see this and
like, oh, well, that's a very good way to just demarcate the theist from the atheist from the
agnostics. Let that proposition be the proposition that God exists. The theists are the ones who
believe that that proposition is true. The atheists are the ones who believe that that
proposition is false. And then the agnostics are the ones who suspend judgment on that. They
neither believe that it's true nor do they believe that it's false. That's how philosophers use the
term. I recognize that different communities can use terms differently. I think that there are
certain benefits to the philosophical usage, but I'm not going to go around with like
a Nazi gun and like shoot people who use it differently or anything like that.
Oh, those Nazi guns. Yeah, that's a gun.
If anyone doesn't need super chats, by the way, Joe is going to read them in his
Gizek voice. So just so you know, yes, very true. But so, so, so how I always, it's always
confusing to me, right? Because people kind of see atheism as like a hard position and
agnosticism like in the layman's terms, like not possible terms and agnosticism is like a
soft atheism or something like, I'm not sure or whatever where like, I just viewed them as like
the definition of what the words is like atheism without theism, agnostic without knowledge, right?
So it's like, but then the then you get into a complicated situation where like, how can you be
agnostic without also being an atheist, right? Because if you don't have knowledge, then you
also can't believe, right? Because well, like, I just think I found a floor in my argument there.
But do you know what I mean? Like you, how do you like, you know, if you're saying, oh, I don't
know if I've ever been in God, it's like, well, then you obviously don't believe in a God. If you
don't know of one, you don't believe in one, right? Like. So I think what you're getting at is when
someone claims or when someone believes something, there's a kind of implicit claim to knowledge,
right? That's basically what they're saying. Like, yeah, I believe that one plus one equals two.
And whenever you say that you believe something, you're kind of implicitly committing
to the claim that you know that thing, right? Because believing you're representing it as true.
And if you didn't think you knew it, if you literally said, oh, yeah, no, I don't know that
it's true. But then like, you went on to say you believe it, that would be very weird. Like,
you're just recognizing that. So I think that's what you're getting at. But someone could still
believe something and fail to know it, right? I mean, people have false beliefs all the time,
so they don't know that. But I think you're getting at is like, in any and claim to belief,
there's usually an implicit claim to knowledge or claim to having knowledge on the person who's
saying it. Yeah, that's what you say that with big brain words. I say that with little brain words.
No, no, but I mean, I think what you're getting at here is like, whenever we're talking about
these things, basically, just get clear on the terms with every year, whoever your dialectical
partner is, just get clear on the terms with you and them so you can have a productive exchange.
Try not to get bogged down with the details of how do we define these things, just set out
how you're understanding it, get clear and get on good terms with your dialectical partner,
and then proceed from there. I think that's the most fruitful way to go forward with these
sorts of things. Yeah, and you need to I know that you talk about creating t-shirts with like
birds and stuff on them. But like, I think you should you need to come up with like a t-shirt
or a poster or something that has your like tips on it. I don't know how it was like 20 tips or
something. Oh, yeah, 22 tips. Yeah. 22 tips. Those 22 tips are like really bad ass like that.
Yeah, I don't you should have you done video on those tips before like just I need to I'll add
that to my videos list. I'll you know, I'll pull it up right now and I'll add it to it. Yeah, it's
so that's it's a the start of this book. There are 22 tips on like how to engage in like, I guess,
philosophical conversation and philosophical thought, I guess, is that is that how you would
basically yeah, just for having, you know, productive, fruitful conversations. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, exactly. It's it's it's really good. Like I was really impressed.
And I was saying before that when I was I was saying before we were live like when I was your
age, I was like smoking bombs in a garage and like you're like out here like writing books about
philosophy. It's amazing. I super impressed. I love you, son. So, so you talked about 100 reasons
for the arguments of God now we're swinging backgrounds. So this is the professionalism
going back, right? So how what are the most convincing arguments that you found for the
existence of God? Yeah, so little personal story or personal anecdote, I grew up as a Christian
atheist. And then as a result of reflecting on evolution and the profound suffering and
languishing and predation, communism and death. Yeah, all that stuff, all that not fun stuff.
As a result of reflecting on that and the fact this is like the very means or mechanism by which
God brings about biological diversity in humans. I was like, press X to doubt like that is so
that's really sus. That is that is so sus. I mean, that's so sus like this perfectly
providential omniscient, perfectly good, totally powerful God created biological diversity and
humans through this grueling bloodbath. It's like, okay, let's step back a second. I think my
plausibility alarm is or my implausibility alarm is going off. So yeah, so that kind of got me
down the path of deconversion. So I went to and as a result of various other arguments from people
like Jeff Louder and Paul Draper and others, I became a metaphysical naturalist, which is a
kind of atheist where you say that the natural world is all there is. Basically, just think of
that as the spatio temporal world of concrete objects around us. That's like all that there is.
And so I got to that kind of view. But then as a result of encountering the work of people like
Josh Rasmussen and Alexander Proust, they awakened me from my dogmatic metaphysical
naturalist slumbers. And I became agnostic as a result of their work. And it's a lot of different
arguments, a lot of different considerations coming together. One of the prominent considerations,
among many others, but this is just one prominent consideration, was like arguments from contingency.
So what is an argument from contingency? This is kind of answering your question now.
So that was a personal back, so we're leading up to that.
So the argument for contingency is an argument for the existence of God, but it's like,
this is one of the reasons that you found, oh no, we actually have a super chat. Sorry,
can you read this in your jishik voice or do you want me to? I can do it. Do it, you're the best.
No. Okay, so apparently some people have taken offense that I touch my nose sometimes when I do
that or like I touch my shirt because he has, I think he has Tourette's is it? Yeah, we're not
making fun of him. We're not touching him. Yeah, no, I will not touch anything. I will just use the
voice. Okay. I will not touch anything because I do not want to make fun of people with Tourette's.
Of course. Yeah. From Jacob. Does Joe Sink, a metaphysical argument for God
that obtains, could epistemically warrant that one knows God exists? And oh, I just touched
my nose. I can't do that. It's like a racist or something. Okay, if so, what might that look like?
Okay, interesting question. Thank you. Thank you so much for the super chat, Jacob.
Okay. Does Joe think that a metaphysical argument for God that obtains?
It's hard to read here. It's like he read it, but you didn't read it. Yeah. Yeah, I'm like partially
as well. I have some wine in my system. So, and I'm not a big drinker. So a little bit of wine
can affect me. Okay, the attains could epistemically warrant that one knows. Okay, so basically can
an argument warrant claiming that someone knows that God exists? So if someone has an argument
for God's existence, can they thereby be warranted in claiming that they know that God exists?
That's what I take the question to be asking. I would say it depends on a lot of factors. I mean,
for starters, it depends on whether or not God exists because you can only know something that's
true, right? You can't know something that's false. You can't know that like one plus one equals seven,
even if you have a really good argument for it. So like it's partly going to depend on whether or
not there is a God, which we're going to get to. Another thing is whether or not they have like,
whether or not they have done their due diligence in like evaluating the objections to that argument
and evaluating counter arguments and evaluating arguments on the other side and things like that.
If they haven't and they've only come across this one argument, then they might not have
enough justification for their belief for it to count as knowledge, you know, arguably in order
for a true belief to count as knowledge. So you can't just believe something and it can't just
be true. Like that's not enough for knowledge, right? Like I could just make a guess on an exam
that the answer is C and somehow I convinced myself that it's C, but it's like a total guess
and it ends up being right. I didn't actually know it, right? That was just total luck.
So you need something like a reason or a justification or something like that needs to be
sufficiently weighty. So their argument has to be at least like it has to justify the relevant
conclusion and it has to do it in a way that's like sufficiently justificatory and basically,
so this depends on a lot of factors. That's what I'm going to say. That's my interesting.
Cool. Cool. But back to the contingency argument. Yeah, the contingency argument. What is a
contingency argument? Tell us about it. Yeah, yeah. Okay. So please in the story. There are
two different stages to a contingency argument. So the first stage, just take some general feature
of reality like that there are contingent things. I'm going to explain what that is in a second.
It takes some general feature of reality like that there are contingent things or something like
that. And it reasons that there must be some ultimate cause or foundation or explanation
of the existence of those things or of that feature. And then the second stage says, hey,
that ultimate foundation or cause or whatever is God. Okay, so we've got these two stages. Okay,
the first stage says there's some ultimate foundation for contingency. The next stage says
that ultimate foundation for contingency is God. Okay, so let's focus on that first stage.
The stage one, which is what people call it in the other one is stage two,
stage one of contingency arguments and conditions contingency arguments, that's a family of
arguments, by the way, I'm just going to go over one member of the family. Yeah, so that's
what I'm going to be doing. So when we look around us, we see a bunch of things like here's a water
bottle and here's an empty glass, which had wine in it, which I swallowed here's here's an organism
right here. This is an organism. I'm touching my breasts. Here is a pen, this is not a pen,
this is a Sharpie. Okay, so there are a lot of objects around us. Now, these objects didn't
like have to exist. They didn't, it's not necessary that they existed. They could have failed to
exist. Someone could have failed to make Sharpies like the inventor of Sharpie, maybe they died
at age two. So we never got Sharpies and no one else came along to invent them or me,
this organism here didn't have to exist. My parents might never have met, right?
Yeah. So I'm not this necessary being I don't have to exist. It could have been the case that I
don't exist. So that's what a contingent thing is a contingent thing is such that
it can fail to exist. It is possibly absent from reality. So that's what a contingent thing is.
It exists, but it can fail to exist or we could say it could have failed to exist.
By contrast, a necessary thing is such that it exists and cannot fail to exist. So some people
think that for instance, like numbers, like that, you know, numbers arguably exist. There are prime
numbers between one and 10. So there are numbers and numbers don't seem like, you know, these
contingent things that just like happen to exist. Oh, like, you know, the number one could easily
fail to exist. Like, no, there are necessary truths about numbers. And so the numbers themselves
have to necessarily exist. That's what a lot of people think. So numbers are examples of necessary
things. Yeah, so we've got contingent things and necessary things. Now, when we look around us,
we see lots of contingent things. In fact, almost anything that you can think of,
in our ordinary experience is arguably contingent, like the earth might not have existed, the sun
might not, you know, like there are a lot of highly specific contingent features that had to,
you know, the accretion disk had to be just right at the early stages of the formation of our solar
system, etc. So a lot of contingent things around us. And uniformly, we see that they have explanations,
not only individual contingent things, but collections thereof, right? So like collections
of pens, you know, they can't just like pop into existence on cause or without any explanation.
And also plausibly, they couldn't have just like somehow like pens just existed from all
eternity inexplicably for no reason whatsoever. We would need some kind of deeper explanation or
account of that intuitively. So we got two supports here for this explanatory principle,
let's call it an explanatory principle that contingent things whether individually or
collectively require some explanation. That's the explanatory principle.
And I'm going to sum up the argument at the end, like I could do premise by premise if we want.
But yeah, so what supports this explanatory principle that contingent things whether
individually or collectively require some explanation? Well, again, one of them is just
like inductive reasoning, right? So inductive reasoning, you look at a class of observed cases
and you generalize to an unobserved cases, well, listen, like every single observed contingent
thing or collection of things that we've seen is such that it has an explanation, you know,
the earth has an explanation in terms of prior causes. I have an explanation in terms of my
parents and even the current functioning of my organs. This sharpie that I just threw on myself
has an explanation. We look around us and just, you know, the foundation of science, you know,
science looks at things and uniformly we see that contingent things have explanations. So it's just
a very safe inductive generalization to say that contingent things have explanations,
whether individually or collectively. Also, one might think that it's just intuitive, right?
If something is contingent, then it genuinely could have failed to exist. So as it were, we've
got these two categories and the contingent thing by itself, like it could have been on either one,
it could easily have been in reality and it could easily have failed to be in reality. So then
intuitively we need some account, some reason why it does in fact fall on the reality side of the
dichotomy when it could have easily fallen on the other side, right? Given that it's contingent,
it really could have failed to exist. And so that intuitively, then why does it exist? There's that
probing question. And intuitively, it seems like there needs to be some sort of reason,
precisely because it genuinely could have failed to exist. So the twin testimonies of intuition
and uniform experience and induction give us very good reasons. So this argument goes to adopt
this explanatory principle that contingent things, whether individually or collectively,
require some explanation. So the first premise is there are some contingent things. The second
premise is contingent things, whether individually or collectively, require some explanation.
The third premise then just asks us to focus on the collection of all the contingent things that
there are. By our explanatory principle, by that second premise, that collection of all
the contingent things that there are requires some explanation. But the explanation of course
can't be in terms of a contingent thing because that's part of the very thing that we're seeking
an explanation of, right? Like if I'm asking why there are any penguins at all ever in reality,
it's no use citing a penguin or something like that. That's part of the very thing that I'm
seeking an accounting of that I'm seeking to give an explanation of. So you can't cite a penguin to
explain why there are any penguins at all ever, okay? So premise one, there are contingent things.
Premise two, contingent things, whether individually or collectively, require an explanation.
Premise three, so then focus on the collection of all the contingent things that there are.
Per our second premise, that requires an explanation. The explanation cannot be in
terms of a contingent thing. And because every existing thing is either necessary or contingent,
it follows that there's a necessary thing that explains why there are contingent things, explains
why there are any contingent things, any contingent things rather. So that's the basic thrust of
stage one. We have this necessary foundation to reality, this necessary thing that explains why
there are any contingent things at all. Stage two then tries to say that this thing must be God.
Now I find stage two almost like basically, like there are lots of different arguments here that
people try to give to identify this necessary foundation with God. I almost uniformly find
them totally unconvincing. And they're usually much weaker than stage one. But I mean, I mean,
here's sometimes what they say like, oh, well, physical things are arguably contingent, you know,
we look around us and we see physical things and they all seem to be contingent. So if this
thing's necessary, it can't be physical. So we've got a non physical thing. Sometimes they say it
has to be like, it has to have a libertarian freedom. And so it has to be personal. Because
if it didn't, then it would kind of just like mechanistically and necessarily generate its
effect, right? And if that's true, because it's necessary, and it kind of necessarily emanates
its effect, its effect would have to be necessary. But the effect is not necessary, right? It's
contingent. And so it can't like mechanistically or necessarily entail its effect. Instead, it has
to kind of have like a leeway freedom of sorts. And so it has to be personal. So then we get a
non physical personal necessarily existent explanation of all of why there are any condition
things that sounds suspiciously like God. Okay, so that's that's the basic argument.
So yeah, so even in premise one there and I and I've seen the super chats guys, thank you so
much. I'm going to get to the mistake. But the something I noticed is, like even in premise
in the first stage there, it's like, you know, Fermi paradox, where it's like, why haven't
we discovered aliens yet? And there's like all these variables of like, there's this many galaxies,
this many like blah, blah, blah, we should have found aliens yet. The problem I have with the
Fermi paradox is like, we don't have those variables, like we're estimating those variables,
we don't know. And to me, that feels very much like what we're doing in stage one of that argument,
where it's like, we're trying to take our limited perspective of like, where did the universe come
from and all that stuff, like what we have now in this like, in like, in, you know, I live on the
sunshine coast and I drink tea sometimes, like, that's my world. And then when I'm trying to
extrapolate the laws of nature and everything that I understand out to like, this area that I
like don't even know if it's sensible to ask questions like, before the Big Bang, is that even
a sensible question to ask before the Big Bang, or where it came from, it's just something come
from, you know, so to me, it's like having it's like, it's like trying to work out the algorithm
without having the variables, like you don't know the numbers. So like, you can make any
algorithm spit at any number, you know, I mean, like even in the stage one, I don't know if I
understood it correctly, but to me, that's a big problem for me. And then stage two,
just to quickly touch on that, it's like, whenever someone throws that at me with the stage two,
I'm like, why do you think God and not giant alien lizard overlords, like,
like, you know, like if someone someone could make the same arguments that you're making for,
I tweeted this to Frank Turek the other day, like, the lizard alien overlords, like, why not?
Like, or the giant honeybee in the sky, like anything, like you could, you could come up with a
reason to maybe not honeybee, because that's like an earthly thing, you know what I mean? Like,
you can come up with like, the great dragon of the... Lots of different hypotheses.
Yeah. So, so why God? Yeah. Okay, so with respect to the why God question, so I'm just going to be
honest, like, I agree with that criticism. Like, I generally think that like, stage one is reasonable,
and like, you know, I lean towards thinking it succeeds. And, you know, I don't have any, like,
dogmatic commitments here, but I lean towards thinking it succeeds of some contingency argument.
Mind you, for the audience, I gave a kind of representative plain vanilla contingency argument.
There are like dozens of variations of contingency arguments, some of them get into like,
modal logic, and they get much more interesting, much more complicated, much more plausible and
rigorous, in fact, because they become much more modest. Like, you only have to say that like,
contingent things possibly have causes or possibly have an explanation. So it gets really interesting.
But anyway, so long story short, I largely agree with your criticism of stage two, like,
I could list so many different hypotheses that like, on which the foundation of reality is like,
a necessary thing that explains, explains contingent things, you could have an impersonal
Brahmin, you could have an impersonal Neoplatonic one that Platinus arguably developed, you could,
you could construe the Thomistic God as impersonal, which many people have alleged it already falls
into, right, this being itself, this totally transcendent, utterly unified, purely actual
being, just construe that as impersonal and bada-bing, bada-boom, you can have a non-theistic
foundation of reality. It could be the Tao, it could be whole concoctions of things, some sort of
quantum field, maybe a collection of strings, super strings, maybe it's a non spatial temporal
universal wave function that I talk about in chapter eight of this book here, maybe it could be
any of a whole concoction of things. So like, stop people, like they just, they go way too
quickly in stage two in inferring God's existence, I think. So that's, that's one of my, one of my
reservations for the argument, for God specifically. As for stage one, I mean, you bring up a nice
orange cone, I think, that people should be wary of, and that they should get around if they want
to adequately justify that explanatory principle. And that orange cone is basically like, how do we
know that the principles of our experience that like, contingent things have explanations, how do
we know that that generalizes? And it's a good question. And I mean, this does kind of get to
broader philosophical questions, like, how do we know that anything generalizes? I mean,
when scientists perform experiments, right, I mean, like, they're usually just observing things
happening on earth, or maybe like within some amount of distance or some number of light years
away from us. How do we know that the principles that we're relying on there generalize to other
galaxies or galaxies far, far away and things like that? It's a good question. And it's an
interesting philosophical question. I mean, arguably science relies on us being able to
inductively generalize like this, at least defeasibly. So defeasably just means like,
okay, fine, we can't be certain that it's true, that the generalized claim holds.
But the very fact that it holds in all the experience that we have so far,
gives us at least some reason to expect that it that the universal claim is true.
And so as long as we kind of make it kind of defensible like that, we, we,
yeah, as long as we do that, and we're relative, you know, we're modest with our generalization,
we could just say, hey, the very fact that every contingent thing in our experience
has an explanation at least gives us some reason to think that contingent things more generally.
Have explanations. And that's probably how they're going to try to get around that orange cone.
Just as, you know, everything in our experience obeys gravity. So you might think that even on a
far, far, far away planet, it's still going to be gravitationally attracted to its star and so on.
So too, you might think that the same will apply to contingency. But again, we shouldn't be like
totally certain about that. Because in principle, you know, for all we know, there might be exceptions.
Okay, I know that you've had conversation with, with like Cameron Batuzzi and other Christian
content creators and apologists and things like that.
I probably shouldn't have mentioned Cameron Batuzzi because like it's like,
that's just like, kind of loading, forget that I mentioned Cameron Batuzzi, just think of an
average Christian, right, like now, or an average, not even an average Christian, average theist.
Why do you think people who haven't investigated these, like you're not convinced of these
arguments for the existence of God, right? You find that they don't, they don't work to convince you
all the way there.
Most of them, I'd say, I'd say most of them. So the ones that do, the ones, the ones which are
such that I do find them convincing, or at least lean towards finding them convincing,
are such that they are placed on my evidential scales, which have to be weighed up
against the pieces of evidence for atheism, which are weighed on my evidential scales.
And when I do the evidential weighing, it comes out roughly something like very roughly equivalent.
Evidence for atheism? What do you mean by that? I, I, well, I kind of hold the position that like
atheism is like a position like, like abstinence is a sex position. It's like, not a,
it's like, it's just not engaging in the, you know, I mean, like, what, what do you mean by
evidence for atheism? Just quickly.
Yeah. So I mean, I take a certain piece of data to be evidence for hypothesis.
Just in case that hypothesis predicts that data better than the negation of that hypothesis.
All right. So let's take an example.
Someone suspects that I hurt my knee. Let's say someone suspects that. And they have this
diagnostic test where they can like put a tongue depressor on my, on my tongue, and it comes out.
And if it, like among the people who have hurt their knees, let's say like 90% of them,
turn the tongue depressor black. And then among the people who are totally fine with
their knees, actually 90% of them keep the tongue depressor white. Okay. So suppose then
someone comes along and puts the little tongue depressor on my tongue and then it comes out
black. Okay. That's evidence. That's evidence for me. My knee being injured, right? Because
the hypothesis that my knee is injured better predicts that data than the hypothesis that
my knee is not injured. On the hypothesis that my knee is not injured, the likelihood of that data
obtaining is only like 10%. Whereas on the hypothesis that my knee is injured, the likelihood
of that data obtaining is 90%. So it predicts that data better. And so that data is evidence for
the hypothesis that my knee is injured. Okay. So intuitively, and you know, you can kind of show
this formally in fact, but intuitively, some piece of data is evidence for hypothesis just in case
that hypothesis predicts the data better than the negation of that hypothesis. And I think
that there are pieces of data that atheism predicts better than theism. That is that atheism
renders a higher or attaches a higher probability to those things obtaining than does theism. So
take for instance, evolutionary evil, right? Under atheism, there's no like providential
God who's guiding this process or anything like that. So it wouldn't be too surprising if it's
just like a disgustingly terrible bloodbath. Whereas under theism that is immensely,
immensely surprising. That is extremely improbable under theism. Whereas it's not so improbable
under atheism. And so this data supports atheism over theism. It gives evidence for atheism over
theism because atheism attaches a higher probability to the data than does theism. It leads us to
expect it more than does theism. Theism gives us extremely strong reason to think that that would
not obtain. Whereas atheism doesn't give us such a comparably strong reason to think that it doesn't
obtain. Because again, there's no like providential God who would be working to prevent that. So
that's the basic thrust of. Yeah. So I guess I would disagree. And I disagree because I'm
big brain. But big brain. But no, but I disagree because I don't see that as atheism. I see there's
like natural naturalism or jokingly Darwinism, you know, like evolution. Like I don't put that
under the banner of atheism. But I can see how like, if you were to take someone, if like an alien was
to come to work with all the alien memes, but if an alien was to come and like, you like pull me
up and go like, what is your worldview? And I described it. And I said, I'm an atheist. Like
you could make predictions based on my worldview, which falls under an atheism, because like there
are some atheists who don't believe in like, naturalism and things like that, like who don't
subscribe to evolution. They're just the atheists, but they're something else, you know? So yeah,
so atheism, I think you're making good point in that atheism is indeed compatible with, let's say,
evolution being false, or you know, even, even there being like,
non godly demons and ghouls and things like that. So atheism is compatible with those things.
But that just means atheism doesn't entail the data. It doesn't strictly entail that
there's going to be an evolutionary process, and that it's going to go in accordance with how it,
in fact, goes. So certainly the probability of the data under atheism is not one, because again,
yeah, atheism could be true, and there could be no evolutionary process, there could be a
different evolutionary process and so on. The point rather is just that however improbable it is
under atheism, it's far, far, far, far, far more improbable under theism, because theism gives us
an extremely good reason to think that this would not obtain, whereas atheism doesn't give us an
extremely, by itself, it doesn't give us an extremely good reason to think that this wouldn't
obtain, right? So although the probability of the data might be low on atheism, it is extremely
lower on theism, and so we still have evidence for atheism. Is it like how someone might say that
Christianity is wrong, but Mormonism is even more wrong because it like adds more stuff to
Christianity? Like, you know what I mean? Yeah, yeah, that's it. It's similar to that. It's very
similar to that. I mean, here's another example. Suppose that I have, suppose I have a roommate.
I did have a roommate when I was living at Purdue, and I might have a roommate when I live at Princeton
in 2023, fall of 2023. That's this year, that's in fall. Okay, fun, fun times. Okay, so suppose I have
a roommate. Yeah, suppose I have a roommate, and we take turns taking out the trash every Sunday,
let's say. I do it a Sunday, then he does it a Sunday, then I do it a Sunday, he does a Sunday.
Suppose I've been roommates with this person for three and a half years, and neither of us has ever
missed, neither of us has ever missed a single Sunday. Okay, so we, and we both know this about
each other, and we know that we're super, super diligent. Okay, and furthermore, suppose that I
have like a whiteboard next to my bed, and like, we have, we have an agreement between me and my
roommate, that like, for the most part, only I touch my whiteboard, and I touch my marker, okay?
That's off, that's off limits, okay? That's my precious whiteboard and precious marker. I feel
like this is like a real life, a real world, like I feel like this actually happened. No, this didn't
actually happen. I can imagine you with a whiteboard that no one allows to touch, like, you know.
Yeah, yeah, no. That's great, but this didn't actually happen. Okay. Yeah, okay, so I've got
this whiteboard, and like, there's an implicit agreement, let's say, between me and my roommate
that like, no one, no one touches this except for me. But now suppose I wake up one day,
and it's a Sunday, and written on the whiteboard is Joe comma, don't forget to take out the trash
with his Miley face. Okay, now that I have some data here, it's very improbable under the hypothesis.
So just on the hypothesis that, you know, that data is very improbable under the hypothesis that
my friend is like reminding me or wants to remind me about my, my duties to take out the trash.
Because like, there's an agreement that, you know, we don't touch my,
people don't touch my thing, other than me, right? So there's that kind of agreement. So like,
on the hypothesis that my friend wants to like remind me about taking out the trash,
it's very, very, very unlikely that my friend would touch that, given our agreement,
given that he's never done this in the past. But you know, it's even more unlikely that like,
the marker came up and just like wrote that on its own, right? So like, this is still powerful,
evidence that my roommate actually did touch my whiteboard and wrote that down to remind me,
even though it's very improbable under that hypothesis. Basically, any other competing
hypothesis is just so overwhelmingly implausible. And this is super duper improbable under those
hypotheses. And that's why this is a powerful evidence for the hypothesis that my roommate
touched it, even though, even though the evidence, the data is unlikely under that hypothesis.
And this is where Michael Jones, who's a friend of mine, I'm about to brag on him,
will come in and say, oh, that's a Humean style argument. And then just like dismiss it all.
What do you think of Hume? I need to ask that before we jump into some super chats. What do you
think of David Hume and his American Americans? Well, oh, no, don't crush me. No, no, no, so it's
saying on miracles. So that's, I was about to say, like, what do you mean? What do you think about
Hume? It's like saying like, Hey, what do you think about politics? Like, what do I think about
politics? Oh gosh, like, what do you mean? What policy issues? So yeah, like, what about Hume?
I mean, I'm not a skeptic. I think he's missing that. But if you're asking about his miracle thing.
Well, he like, so a lot of I talked to a lot of fierce, and I'll say they'll just dismiss all
of Hume by pointing to an atheist, and who wrote Hume's abject failure. And when I try and read it,
I don't have big enough brain to understand. I only kind of conceptualize it a little bit.
And I even use chat GDP to help me break down the arguments in the book, which was pretty cool.
And it did pretty well. Actually, I maybe understand a little better. But but have you read
that Hume's abject failure? Or do you have any criticism of? So I haven't read Hume's abject
failure in particular. I've studied, I've studied in some depth, Hume's argument. Now there are
there are actually a lot of different interpretive difficulties with interpreting Hume. So there
are actually a lot of different kind of interpretations of his argument. Now, here's a charitable
way to understand the argument. He's basically just kind of implicitly stating Bayes theorem.
I mean, you know, when he says reject the greater, reject the greater miracle, he's basically saying,
if it would be more improbable, that the miracle actually occurred. No, let me see, let me get
this straight. If it would be more improbable, that the witnesses are like lying, or if they're
just honestly mistaken, or etc. Like, if it'd be more improbable that their testimony is mistaken,
than that the miracle actually occurred, then we should accept that the miracle occurred. Because
it's it's more improbable. Sorry, this is like, I'm under the influence of alcohol.
It's like the pen, like, I'll help you out. It's like, is it more miraculous that the pen
pictures itself up and wrote to take out the bins? Or is it more, or is it more likely that your
roommate wrote that on the board, even though it's not a comparison? Yeah, it's a comparison,
it's a likelihood comparison, right? So if we just construe his argument as a likelihood comparison,
which is more likely, that hey, some people were mistaken in in testifying something,
maybe there is some prank, maybe there's a mixture of a prank and deception, maybe there's only
deception, maybe there's just honest mistakes, and there's some weird reflectance of light, or
maybe people are just, there's kind of original hallucinations, and then there's some sort of
social contagion and other sorts of things, like construct all these naturalistic, perfectly
naturalistic scientific hypotheses, which is more probable, that at least one of those is the right
answer, or the right, the right hypothesis, or that this miracle occurred, that someone like
literally rose from the dead and like violated all the laws that we know to obtain in almost every
single other occasion. Which of those are probable? Yeah, exactly. So like, if you put it like that,
then it's just a comparison of probability, and I don't really see any fallacy in that comparison
probability. Now, you know, the problem is most people haven't read that book, and then so they
get there, so the apologist just throws it out there, and then you ask them like, and then they
just, then they just moonwalk away, and you're, damn it. Yeah, yeah, so I mean, if, so again,
I'm not going to comment on how Hume specifically formulated it, because there's lots of actually
interpretive difficulties about like, what did Hume mean by the certain passage, and are there
different versions of the argument? Is this a kind of basing argument, or is he making some sort of
and that was like, 150 years ago, like what, like 100 years ago, like that's, we're not talking in
like 2000 BC, where we're like, pulling apart texts from like ancient Mesopotamia to... Oh yeah,
dude, Hume was 250 years, yeah, 250 years ago. Oh, 250, was he 250? Yeah, okay, Scottish Enlightenment,
that's right. Okay, we've got some super chats. Thank you so much everyone for the super chats.
I don't know if we'll keep up the JJ voice, because it's, it's painful, but I'll do the
JJ voice for this one. Why does Joe prefer white, reds, or drys?
Joe.
What wine do you prefer? White, red, white, and thank you, Jacob, for the super chat.
White, red, or dry? So I'm not a big, a big drinker, but I've had Pinot Noir, I think,
and I've also had, I've had Sauvignon Blanc, and I've had a few others. What do I prefer? I mean,
I've liked all the ones I've had, to be honest. I'm very... Have you had Scotch?
I haven't. Oh, one day, one day, I'll, yeah, I'll, you know what, deep drinks might be doing a tour
of the US one day. I'll come, if we ever meet up, and I'm coming over to the US, I'll bring some
Scotch, and I'll give you a whole tour of the land of Scotch. I think, if you can appreciate wine,
I think you'll appreciate Scotch. Yeah, so I mean, I'm just gonna be honest, I've liked every
one that I've tried, so that's just what I'm going to say, and I've tried very few wines,
but I like both white and red. I mean, what do I prefer? I don't really have a preference, to be
honest. That's so cool. Are you friends with James Fodor, or do you know of him? I've talked with him
a little bit. I don't know if I'd say that we're friends, I mean, we're not like enemies, but I
didn't, maybe acquaintances is the best word there. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'd say we're acquaintances.
It's so funny, when he was like, he's the first guest that drank water, but he's drinking it
out of like a vodka bottle, so like he's like, oh, it's just next month, so he's just drinking like
vodka. It looks like he's drinking vodka, but he's like, it's water guys, it's water, but yeah,
anyway. Thank you so much for the super chat, Jacob. D, huge super chat, thank you so much.
How did each of you deal with absurdities when you were believers? When I was 13, I got kicked out of
the Bible class for laughing at Adam lived to 930. I seriously thought the priest was joking,
that was it for me. Well, actually, I remember, I do remember when I was younger, I was reading
the Bible, and I read the story of Noah, and like I was in Genesis or something. And it's like,
Noah lived to 630, like whatever, however old Noah lived, and I was like,
I was like, I asked my mom, I was like, mom, and she's like, and I was just like,
it was just kind of one of those things, it's like, what are you going to do, reject your religion?
Like she didn't say this, but it's like, this is what I thought, like, what are you going to do,
reject your religion? Like this is what it says, and it's like, okay, you just kind of push it back
to the back of your head and just like, oh, it's not the case. And D, I really want to connect with
you, like I know, I know you don't, I've asked D to come on, but she doesn't want to, she's like,
nope, not coming on, doesn't want to be on camera, but I really want to connect with you,
reach out, update to chat sometime, because I just feel like you've got a story in you that I want
to learn about. Vespa said, if a supernatural is a category error, since whatever we discover
de facto becomes part of the no natural world, how can we not be Gnostic atheists? Be Gnostic
atheists. So I just don't see the appeal of the claim that whatever we discover de facto becomes
part of the known natural world. I mean, suppose someone just came up with like a deductive proof
that God exists, that there's this omnipotent, omniscient, non-physical, perfectly good creator
of the universe. Suppose many people have claimed it, but just how you simply prove that. Suppose
someone came up with a proof and maybe it, maybe it succeeds, and maybe we come to know that there
is such a thing. It doesn't strike me as plausible to say that that thing just de facto becomes part
of the known natural world. Like, however else I use the term natural, that thing is not natural,
like that's just not how we use the term. So I would disagree that whatever we discover de facto
becomes part of the known natural world. And because that's a kind of crucial step in this person's
claim that supernaturalism would be a category error and consequently that we should or ought to be
Gnostic atheists, I would reject this sort of reasoning. So that's my response.
And I forgot to ask actually what, how did you deal with absurdities with these questions? How
do you deal with absurdities when you were a believer? So usually, I mean, I just read a lot
about them and debated people on them. And I was very philosophical from a young age. And when I
say philosophical, I just mean like inquisitive. And I really wanted to find out things. So I would
like read books. I remember, I probably still have it over here, don't I? The language of God or
whatever. I picked that up because I was bothered by the evolution problem and how it relates to
Genesis. So I picked up the language of God. Here it is. Wait, there's the where's the original
one that I use in seventh grade or whatever. So I think this is the original one I had in seventh
grade. You can see it's very, it's all named and so on. But yeah, that kind of kickstarted my
inquiry into all these topics. But anyway, long story short, how did I deal with these absurdities?
I usually like read about them and read on, I tried to explore them and see what I thought
about them. And eventually, I found some of them to be too absurd to believe.
You're going to have faith. Okay, Joe, that's the answer. What would Joe count as evidence
in favor of theism that's inductive? If it's not inductive, why should we put it in the category
of evidence? So inductive, that's a tricky word for, I mean, it just depends on what we mean by
inductive. If by inductive, we just mean like non deductive, then it then we would count Bayesian
things, which then what would I count as evidence in favor of theism that's non deductive, and in
particular, that's Bayesian, well, it's anything that theism predicts better than the negation of
theism. So anything which is such that theism attaches a higher probability to our to our
observing that thing, then does atheism, or a relevant competitor hypothesis like naturalism.
So I just roll up my Bayesian sleeves, and that's my answer. So anything that theism predicts better
than atheism, basically. So that's what would count as evidence in favor of theism.
If it's not inductive, why should we put it in the category of evidence? Well, here's one reason
you might do that. Because if there's a deductive argument, and you assign a certain probability
to the premises, so, you know, you're not absolutely certain the premises. So I mean,
let's step back. If you have a deductive argument, which concludes that God exists, and you're
absolutely certain all the premises, well, then you're going to be absolutely certain that God
exists, right? Because those premises together strictly entail the conclusion. So, and you're
certain in the premises. So then you need to be certain in the conclusion. But if you're not
certain in the premises, well, then you've got a kind of non one credence in them, or a non one
degree of belief in them. So you might be like just 70% confident in this premise, and 80%
confidence in that premise. And when you work it out mathematically, you can actually get a kind
of lower bound credence for the conclusion. And then you can kind of use that credence in
your kind of probabilistic assessment, basically, of theism versus atheism. So that's another thing
to keep in mind. So there's a role still for deductive arguments to play as well.
Hmm. So,
me being professional, again, I'm going to swing back round to back what I was going to ask before
we went on a bunch of chant tangents. And the wine is definitely affecting me as well. And I
can see you're pounding the waters, which is good. Keep high. Well, I can, I can definitely notice
that I have taken wine. So I'm not a big drinker. So you know, amount. Yeah, I'm, I, you know,
like I, I surprisingly don't handle wine, and alcohol as best as anyway, it's 9am for me as
well. I haven't had anything. Yeah. So people take it into account for me responses. I'm not in
totally sound mind. So I'm not as sharp as I normally am.
No, that's okay. Well, you said, but the problem is, is like, you need to, you need to come down
a level for me to understand it. But then at the same time, I'm going down levels as well,
because I'm drinking. So it's a fiasco. But so why do you think like people, so if you have these,
like, you're not convinced of the arguments of God, and you've given it like some serious
rational thought, it doesn't weigh up with the evidence. Why do you think, and be honest to
you, don't give me some like fluff answer, or whatever. Why do you think most people do believe
in God? Whoa, uh, I mean, I want to judge everyone, judge everyone. Listen, for most people, the
answer is almost certainly because they grew up that way. And that's what they were taught since
a young age. And usually people just don't question what they're taught since the young age. They
have certain inculcated rituals and belief systems and so on. And I guess we're not like,
yeah, I mean, that that's, that's, that's the reason for most, I think, I mean, that nicely
explains distribution, it nicely explains the retention rates of people in certain groups and
how the retention rates are strongly correlated with like degree of parental influence over,
you know, like how much they go to church and how much the parents kind of inculcate belief.
So it, for most people, the reason is that they grew up that way. And that they, you know, it's
like belief persistence. They, and they, they haven't really, they're not interested in exploring
and refuting their own beliefs, right? So most people don't, most people suffer from confirmation
bias. Most people to a very large extent, you can try to mitigate that, but a lot of people do.
So people like, you know, will interpret the world as confirming their beliefs, and they won't
strongly look for evidence against them. So, so that's the main reason, just being inculcated
into, into that kind of religious belief or theistic belief from a very young age and not.
What about people who do think about it a lot? Like the, the, and I'm sorry,
the Cameron Batuzzi's, the William Lane Craig's, the, you know, the people, the Frank Tricks,
the people who are, I guess, actually apologists who know these arguments well, they know
the, the evidence, they have the same information that you have, but you've reached,
well, uh, you know, I mean, I wouldn't say that Frank, I wouldn't say that Frank
Turek knows the arguments well. I shouldn't have thrown Frank Turek in there. I knew,
I knew that was a mistake. I was like, well, I said Frank Turek. I mean, I think, I think everyone
has different evidence. I mean, we all have different experiences. We've all looked at
different arguments to different extents, and we all have different like objections in our
own minds, different objections and orders of objections that we come across and different
books and papers and articles that we've read and different videos that we've watched. So we
all have different evidence, I think. So that's one factor that goes into it. It's just the kind
of like unique commentator, unique combination of factors that influence belief for each individual.
So my answer is probably going to be on a case-by-case basis for, for these people who really
have thought about it significantly. I mean, some of them, some of them was kind of a foregone
conclusion, you know, like, they're just kind of, you can kind of tell that they're just using
arguments to bolster up their pre-existent beliefs. But others speak against a new book.
Yes, exactly. But others, you can tell that like, maybe they themselves like even went
through a process of deconversion and then later reconverted because they discovered
like certain arguments and like their testimony there is like reasonably, it's reasonable,
you know, so like you could believe them. And for them, it seems like, you know, the arguments
are a large factor. So for everyone, it's just going to be a huge combination of factors. I
don't know. I mean, I'd have, again, I'd have to take it on a case-by-case basis. For most people,
like I said, they're not reflective, like the some apologists are. So yeah,
I have this fantasy and it's, it came to me when I was drinking whiskey with Michael Jones
of inspiring philosophy. And we were talking about God and stuff. And I was like, you know what,
we need to just like hire at a boardroom somewhere and just like, and just solve this,
this problem once and for all, like just solve God, like just like, let's get on the same page.
And you know what, I think one day we should do a deep drinks council, the council of deep
drinks, and we should get everyone together in a big boardroom for weeks. And we just,
we just sit there and we nut out everything like we all have to agree on each piece of evidence
before we move on. And we just, we solve the God problem once and for all amongst the YouTubers
and the philosophers and stuff. To me, it seems wild to me that there is an answer, right? There's
either yes or no, like there is either it's a God or there isn't a God. And it's, it's like,
when we have the same, the access to the same information, surely an AI can like, or something
can spit out, like, and can look at it all and spit out like probability or something. But like,
it's, it's, it's a really, it's a game of like tap dancing around people's presuppositions and their
biases. That's all it is. The conversation is almost, I would say the conversation is pretty
much solved. This is the why I'm talking pretty much solved, except we're just spending a little
time tap dancing around people's biases and presuppositions, because like, it can't be,
it can't be this hard to determine. Like, it can't be this hard that you've got such polarized sides
who just, who have the same access, the same information, and they're just, there must be
something else going on there. There must be like a bias or, and of course, Joe, we know that you
just want to sin. Yeah, exactly. I mean, I just want to curse my enemies all day long.
That's all I want to do. Yeah. I mean, this is what makes it difficult, because we all don't
have access to the same information. That's part of what explains vast divergence. We all have read
different books. Yeah, we all have read different books. We've read different articles, we've read
different, we've watched different videos, and we've done it in different orders. We actually know
that order can drastically affect from certain psychological studies, order of presentation
of information can actually strongly affect conclusions that you come to. So the order of
our information is different. You all have different personal and life experiences and different
testimonial evidence from people that we take to be reliable or things like that. So like,
the unique concoction of evidence, and we all have also different plausibility structures,
what we find intuitive, intuitions often diverge, or what we find plausible diverges. Some people
find a certain premise in a philosophical argument plausible that other people find implausible.
So it's just such a unique concoction of factors for each individual that goes into explaining
where they land on these issues, that it's not too surprising to me, at least, that we have this
vast divergence. Yeah, I mean, bias is surely part of the explanation on many, on multiple sides of
the issue, but also part of the explanation is just it's intrinsically difficult because it touches
on so many different aspects of human knowledge and human inquiry, the question of God. Another
thing is so intrinsic difficulty. Another thing is just so many considerations on both sides.
That's another thing. And the third thing is just different evidence bases for people. We all have
different, we all occupy, as I say, different positions on the grand epistemic landscape with
different life experiences, different testimonial evidence bases, different articles, books, videos,
podcasts, read and consumed and things like that. So that's kind of my diagnosis.
That doesn't mean there's no hope. You just try your best, right? I mean, you try your best
in what you've got, right? Yeah. I had someone, a recent guest ask me like, you know,
it'd be great to, I'd love to create a YouTube channel myself, you know, there's potential for
like earnings there and all that stuff. And I was like, and they're like, should I do it? I'm like,
if you'd like having these conversations, then like go for it. And that's how I feel about
this whole conversation as well. It's like, we may not, we may not find an answer. But if we can
all still be friends at the end of like a heated debate, like, cool, like that's like, to me,
that's fun. Like to me, that's like a great, a good time. Yeah, exactly. And just to interrupt,
I mean, even if we don't find an answer, we might gain greater understanding of the issues,
we might gain a greater understanding of which arguments are better than others or which arguments
don't work so that we aren't duped by them and we avoid forming an unjustified belief on the basis
of them. So we can gain a greater understanding of the issues, greater clarity on the matter,
greater, and some of us might even come to know it if they reason well and have justified beliefs.
And it turns out that they're right. Well, Joe, we are coming desperately close to the 90 minutes,
and we're gonna let's stick to 90 minutes today. But I wanted to, I'm really enjoying this conversation.
I hope you are as well, because I would love to, in the future sometime, talk to you about
arguments against God. So we've touched literally over against for God, and, you know, the problem
of evil and all those things, because I think that's actually a much more interesting conversation
for me. But we'll leave that for another time. And I'm going to ask you a few questions in
BBQ. And if anyone's got any questions, make sure you hit them up. And if we can read them,
we can. But first of all, I'd like to quickly shout out, if everyone is kicking around,
tomorrow we have a stream on ISI 53 with Gnostic Informant, or not tomorrow, maybe the next day,
it's gonna be really awesome. And then we have the author of Beyond Belief,
Ellie Hardy, coming on to talk about how Pentecostalism, the roots of Pentecostalism,
like it's actually, when I was a Pentecostal Christian, I thought it was like,
Pentecost Christians, right back from Jesus time, but it's like, no, Pentecostalism is like
a couple hundred years old, like, or not even that 100 years, like it's, it's, it's young,
like the Azusa Street revivals and things like that. So, but so stick around, make sure you
hit the like button. And if anyone shares out this video on Twitter, make sure to tag me at
deepdrinkspod, or at Dave McDonnell 89, and I'll make sure to retweet it. And I'll like it.
Really appreciate it to get the word out there. And make sure you like this video,
because it really helps the algorithm gods. You have to, you have to please your capitalist overlords,
right? That's it. Pick up the book that's the book we've been talking about today. However,
you have, and of course you have a YouTube channel, links in the description. However,
you have this other book. Tell us a little bit about this other book before we close out.
Well, it's, it's a very academic book, I'll say that. So what, so the title basically,
it gives away everything. So it's a spoiler alert, isn't it? It's about existential inertia
in classical theistic proof. So what is existential inertia? Well, you've heard of
mechanical inertia, you've heard of physical inertia. How about existential inertia? Okay,
I've been, I've been, I've been practicing my elevator pitches, as you can see.
That's awesome. Yeah, that's great. So yeah, mechanical inertia or physical inertia is basically
when an object, a physical body, a corporal substance, as Newton would probably call it,
is when a physical body basically maintains its rectilinear motion, it maintains its velocity,
its speed and direction, unless and until some external force acts upon it, right? And so just
apply that to existence. Things persist or maintain their existence. They persist in existence over
time, unless and until something destroys them. And just as in the mechanical inertia case,
you know, things are just going to continue in their rectilinear motion without something like
continually impelling them forward, right? Like this is what Aristotle thought. Aristotle thought
that when things are in motion, something has to be there to kind of continually impell them along,
right? Yeah. But Newton comes along is like, that's just nope, that's wrong, right? Things just
continue in their rectilinear motion, there doesn't need to be something that continually
bestows them motion. No, they just retain it of their own accord, as it were, unless and until
they're obstructed. Similarly, existential inertia says that things persist in existence and less
than until they're destroyed, and they don't need something to like, sustain them in existence to
keep them in going as it were. So things persist without being sustained in existence from outside,
and they cease to exist only when subject to destructive factors. Okay, so that's the basic
thesis of existential inertia. It's a thesis about how things persist, or what manner in which they
persist. And basically, if that thesis is true, which we argue in favor of in that book, and we
defend it from various objections, it defeats a lot of classical arguments for God's existence,
arguments that people like Aquinas, Maimonides, in contemporary times, Phaser and Gavin Caron,
lots of others have put forward in favor of God's existence. Because those arguments rely on
denying existential inertia, they basically say, hey, there are things of a given kind like
composite things or changing things, or temporal things, those things require a sustaining cause
in order to exist at any moment. Chains of sustaining causes cannot proceed or descend
infinitely. And so there must be a first uncaused sustaining cause of these composite contingent
temporal things. And of course, since this thing is uncaused, and since composite contingent
temporal things require a cause, this thing cannot be temporal, it can't be contingent,
it can't be composite, it needs to be an absolutely simple, necessary, timeless, sustaining ground
of being. And we basically come along and say, hey, those arguments don't work because of existential
inertia, things don't need sustaining causes, contra these arguments. So that's what these
arguments are, the classical theistic proofs, they are classical in the sense that, you know,
they're these are arguments, the classical theistic tradition is developed. And their proofs in the
sense that they try to prove God's existence. And we say, hey, these proofs don't work. So that's
the basic thrust of the book. That's what it's about. Wow. That sounds extremely academic. I've
put the link in the chat here. So people can, if you want to buy the book, you can buy it and it
will help support this channel as well. And make sure you go check out your 100 plus arguments of
God's answer. That's a fantastic stream. It's really awesome. Many people have emailed me and said
that they watched the whole that many people have emailed me and said that some people have watched
it more than once. So it's it's well, to me, it's a it's a it's a for me, it's a on on the second
monitor as I'm like, and like doing something like fun, right? That's like that's how I like
like to watch these like long style content. So I think I'll watch it a few times, free time.
Because yeah, sometimes I sometimes I play FIFA very rarely, because I don't have much free time.
But when I do have free time, when I play FIFA, there's always like a podcast or something on
the background, some long form content. So yeah, yeah, awesome. Okay, so a couple of questions I
have before we wrap up. So I'm going to ask you for so for the God belief. This is a question I
ask a lot of people, but I'll just tweak a little bit for the God belief for you. What if anything
would change your mind? This is a very stale answer. I'm sorry. But so I have evidential
evidential considerations or evidential chips in favor of theism and in favor of naturalism.
In order to change my mind, we basically just need to sufficiently either we need to add
chips to the theoside such that it sufficiently outweighs the atheoside, or we need to remove
chips from the atheoside so that the theoside counterbalances or outweighs it sufficiently.
Alternatively, we could strengthen the evidential chips that I think are already there on the
theoside or weaken the evidential chips that I think are already there on the atheoside.
And then what would convince me of atheism? Just the opposite, right? I forget which hand
I use. I think this was theist. So we would basically have what would convince me of atheism,
getting more evidential chips for atheism, losing evidential chips for theism, or strengthening
the evidential chips for atheism, and weakening the or weakening the evidential chips for theism.
So there are eight combinatorial possibilities. Any one of those when taken to a sufficiently
high degree, which is kind of I don't know how much I mean, it's difficult to spell out in advance.
But when taken to a sufficiently high degree, any of those eight combinatorial possibilities
would be sufficient to change my mind. I love it. I love it so much. Okay. Last question. And
guys, once again, if you share this out, I'll make sure to re-tweet your comments. Thank you so much
for checking out there. And if you want to support the channel, you can click the join button,
which I greatly appreciate. It's only a couple bucks a month and all big joint become a Patreon
supporter, which I super appreciate. And soon I think I'm going to start having to put like the
names of the patrons down the bottom of the banner because there's just going to be ways,
other ways that I can say thank you for helping support this channel.
The last question. And okay, so you're going to have to bear with me for a second. This is a
hypothetical. Hypothetically, you find out, let's say a genie tells you or you've got this box of
truth that tells you there is a God. And it's one of the gods that are in existence on Earth.
Like, you know that they have an accurate representation of reality. And I'm not talking
about like the flying spaghetti monster. I'm talking about like proper religions, right?
If that's the case, and you know that hypothetically, what is the most plausibly true religion
in that world that you currently don't believe in?
That's a good question.
So probably something like,
okay, I mean, we could do like the intrinsic plausibility. Okay, I kind of have two answers.
So, yeah, I'm going to give two answers. One of them is, okay, so hear me out.
A universalist, non-inherentist, Christian God. Okay, that's one that I find plausible.
So you get rid of all the immense difficulties with eternal conscious torment and all the problems
of hell. Because you're not an inerrantist, you don't have to defend that like God actually
commanded genocide, that God actually commanded Noah to like slit the throat of his son, that
God actually drowned babies in a worldwide or even local flood. You don't have to accept those.
You can, in some way, what's his name? Randall Rouser has a bunch of different ways that he
kind of develops for Christians who are not, you know, like super duper literalist inerrantists
to interpret these passages that don't involve God himself doing these things. But instead,
it's the humans who are like erently attributing things to God. And God is kind of wielding,
providentially wielding these errors together to form his, basically, the story of salvation history
to bring people up to a greater state of moral enlightenment, etc. So anyway, long story short,
you don't have to commit to all the atrocities in the Old Testament. You don't have to commit to
hell. You don't have to commit to eternal conscious torment. You can commit to a kind of
universalism. So there's a hope for everyone that this broken creation is going to be redeemed.
You have the central figure of Christ, who is a moral exemplar in many ways.
I'd probably think that that would be my guess for which one is true. A kind of universalist,
non-inerrantist Christianity. So that's my answer. So the other answer that I was thinking of was a
kind of like a brahmin of sorts. You don't have like, there's just this really, it's like a really
philosophical kind of transcendent, kind of like abstract reality of sorts, which is kind of the
source of like, it like is being consciousness and bliss. And it is like the source of everything
else is being consciousness and bliss. And you don't have to have like, Trinitarianism and all
the difficulties with incarnation. And I mean, I guess under the under that kind of religion,
I guess you'd have reincarnation difficulties with that. But what, and I know we were a couple
seconds ago, but what would you say if, like, what do you think of, you know, the Buddhist,
the Buddhist idea, I think it's the Buddhist idea, where it's like blind men touching an elephant,
and they're describing something, they're describing this thing that they're touching
differently. Oh, it's got this trunk, it's got legs, it's got a tail, it's got a nose. But it's like,
besides the fact that kind of begs the question that there is something that we're touching,
there seems to be this like inherent like, desire for people to like, even evolutionary,
to like worship something greater than them, or like to put or in something that's greater than
them. There's the difference between like, you know, people, people can feel the difference
between like, I will say the word sin, but I'm not talking about any like traditional Christian
sense, but like, doing something that they consider wrong, versus doing something they
consider right, like me going out and doing cocaine with strippers, versus staying in and
reading a fantastic book, or one of them feels like one of them might sound funner,
which is the book. No, I'm kidding. But but one of them feels like it's going to be more
virtuous and like, it's going to add more to my life or something, you know, I mean, like there's
yeah, there's this, there's this, this, this is this internal thing of good and bad that
that we still tend to have. What do you say to someone who just calls God a mountain and calls
like, well, we just don't have all the answers yet. And there is something there, but we just
don't know what that is. What do I say to them? I mean, one thing I could ask is why, why do you
think that that's true? Give me your argument, give me your reasons. And let's assess them.
Exactly. I think I just do philosophy with them. I mean, that's what I would do.
Why do you think that? And let's talk about that. Let's talk about some objections to it.
Let's talk about your reasons for believing it. And let's see if they hold up to critical
scrutiny, et cetera. So that's what I would do. I mean, I guess I could see that as a third option
for, you know, like a kind of religious pluralism where like, you know, maybe there's some like
transcendent, more powerful reality and each religion is kind of trying to grasp at it.
I mean, I have some limitations with that because like, a lot of the religions are just so
conflicting. And like, it's so hard to see like, you want to tell me like this one, which has
like an impersonal ultimate is like touching the same thing as this one, which says like the
ultimate is personal. Like that's just straightforwardly contradictory. Like, it doesn't really work.
So yeah, I'm going to stick with my answer. The two ones that I mentioned, the kind of universalist,
non-inertist Christianity and I guess a kind of Hinduism.
Cool. Cool. All right. Well, thank you so much for coming on, Joe. It's been awesome. I just like
I had a bunch of notes, but I felt like the conversation just flowed so naturally. You're
very fascinating, very interesting. I really enjoyed it. Love to have you on again in the future.
For those, go check out your YouTube channel. And I recommend you do have, there's 100, 100 reasons,
100 plus reasons, but this video here, Birds Don't Exist There For Christianity Is False,
is a fantastic video. Just no other context. I'm not giving any more context. Just go watch
that video. It's fantastic. It's, it made me laugh. I was laughing the whole time.
Let's go. That's great.
So awesome. Thank you so much for coming on. We're going.
Yeah, I'll say thank you. And I really enjoyed the conversation. I think if I come on again,
which I'm 1000% open to doing, I will. Hell yeah. I will not. I don't think I'm going to have an
alcoholic beverage next time because that I can't mask the stupid answers because I'm going to be
supper. No, that's cool. That's cool. That's cool.
It'll be something like vitamin water or something.
Yeah. Honestly, last night, I think it was the last time I was like, I was like googling. I was
like, if I drink alcohol too much, can I like become an alcoholic? Like, is there like a switch to
my brain? Like, like, where like someone eats like too much stuff and they become like a diabetic?
It's like, what? Now you're like, can that happen to me? Because I'm like, geez, like, I don't,
what if this show turns me into an alcoholic? Like, I don't want to do that. Like, I don't have
a problem with alcohol. But like, what happens if, so like, I've actually, you know,
sometimes I really appreciate not drinking alcohol. It's actually, you do get over it.
I can guarantee that I will not be doing the next thing because I just don't feel at my,
I don't feel as sharp as I normally am. So it's good. When I had, when I had Dr. Kip Davis on
Dead Sea Scrolls Scholar, Bible Scholar, we were drinking whiskey and by the end of like,
we did 45 minutes on metal bands, just talking about our favorite metal bands. And by the end,
I'm like, like, you can skip to the start, like go to guys, go to the start of that episode and
listen to us. We're like, we sound pretty like put together and we're like laughing. By the end,
we're like a little bit like our words are like elongated a little bit and we're like slurring
a little bit like it's bad and I'm like looking for like the end stream but like anyway, but
it was fun time and that's what difference brings. Anyway, thanks for coming on. We're going to end
with a purity culture panel trailer and then the end credits, but we are going to releasing some
really funny, some promos for that coming up. So look forward to seeing them on Twitter. I'll
see you guys later. Thanks for coming out, Joe. It's been awesome. See you guys.
