Welcome, everyone, to Deep Drinks podcast, the deepest podcast on the
internet. For those who don't know what this channel is, I invite guests on. I
asked them to bring a drink of their choice. I'll bring along the same drink
and then we drink that over a deep conversation. Deep drinks, right? So my
guest today is Dr. Dan McClellan. He's a distinguished scholar with a
background in ancient Near East Studies, having earned his bachelor degree from
Brigham Young University, focusing on biblical Hebrew and minoring classical
Greek. He completed his master's degree in Jewish studies at the University of
Oxford and another in biblical studies at Trinity Western University. Dr.
Daniel McClellan, sorry, defended his doctoral dissertation at the
University of Exeter, which explored the cognitive science of religion and the
conceptualization of deity and divine agency in the Hebrew Bible. He has
also been involved in politics running as a Democratic candidate in Utah for
both the State House of Representatives and State Senate. From 2013 to
2023, he worked as a scripture translator, supervisor for the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Salt Lake City and occasionally taught
courses at Brigham Young University. His research interests include Second
Temple Judaism, early Israelite religion, textual criticism of the Hebrew Bible,
early Christology, cognitive science of religion, cognitive linguistics and
religious identity. He's the author of Yahweh's Divine Images, A Cognitive
Approach, which is an amazing resource source. He's also the co-host of the
brand new but wildly popular podcast, Data Over Dogma, which has already had some
huge heavy hitters on, like Professor Bart de Ermann and Professor Francesca
Stavrakapulu. Today we'll be discussing the roots of monotheism, monotheism and
polytheism in the Bible and many other amazing things. All right, let's see it.
Let's see it. Let's see it. All right, let's see it. All right, let's see it. All right, let's see it.
All right, let's see it. All right, let's see it. All right, let's see it. All right, let's see it. All right, let's see it. All right, let's see it. Let's see it. Oh, God, let's
All right, let's see it. All right, let's see it.
Oh, welcome to Dan McClellan. I hope you appreciate that. That took me hours last
time. I was up till like 1am and I was like, why am I doing this?
I have never seen that before. That was hilarious. But I have to tell you, what are the,
somebody did something like that? Like maybe four or five months into my TikTok channel,
somebody strung together a bunch of intro portions of my videos. But they did it because
they noticed I did something right as I began to talk every time I would go. And I would make that
noise. And so they just had like a dozen clips of me going. And they thought it was hilarious.
And I did too. But it also was profoundly humiliating for me. And I look back at all my
videos. And now anytime I make that noise, I'm like, oh, gosh. And so even my intro video that's
pinned to the top of my TikTok channel, I do that at the very beginning. And I became just
insanely self-conscious about that. And so now, if I do it, I immediately re-record the take.
I'm glad you didn't catch that.
It's funny how little, like, little U.S. increases that we have. Because I'm the same. You see them
on film and you're like, what are you doing? The first TikTok I ever recorded, I told somebody
recently in an interview, it took me like 10 minutes to get to the point where I could
press record. Because I've been on Zoom and Skype and stuff like that with people. But I've never
just looked at myself and been like, I'm going to record myself talking to nobody. And I just felt
like such a poser. And you got to get over that hump. But as I started recording all these videos,
I suddenly became incredibly aware of all those things that I had never seen before
from the first person that now I was exposing to myself. And so I got self-conscious and a big
hurry. It's amazing. I remember when I recorded, so I had another channel called Post Faith,
before I had Deep Drinks. I still kind of post there. It's kind of my spicy Dave channel.
And I remember sitting there and the shot was me walking in this shot here, grabbing a book
from the bookshelf, sitting down and saying, I want to tell you a story. That's the shot.
25 takes. 25 times for me to get that shot. And I had a roommate next door. And they heard me
repeat the phrase, hey, guys, it's Dave. Hey, guys, it's Dave about 100 times because I couldn't
get the lighting right or the inflection right. And you just psychoanalyze yourself so much.
Yeah. And that's one of the reasons that I developed a brand fairly quickly on my channel
of being kind of dry and just straightforward, no nonsense, dispatching it. And every now and then,
you know, some cracks will appear in that persona. But I realized very quickly, I'm not an actor.
And the last thing I want is for me to be doing, you know, something stupid 30 times in a row
with my 14-year-old daughter in the bedroom just above me, who she swears she can't hear me.
But I have absolutely no doubt she's lying to me that she can hear every single word I say,
which means she hears me say over and over and over and over again stuff that I get wrong.
Yeah. So I remember, I remember like, I'm a big fan of Christopher Hitchens and I was like,
you know, I'm going to come, I'm going to come with these edgelord takes, you know, like these.
And, and I remember, you know, I think I didn't think I didn't realize at the time,
but I think I was building myself up my head like I was getting a bit of an ego.
And then I went on Tang's channel and Jenna started this rumor that I wanted to rap Battle
Oz. And at the end, I decided to rap Battle Oz, like, because everyone pressured me into doing
it. And it was the most embarrassing, I was embarrassed for three days. Like it was,
and all that ego, everything left. And I realized, you know what, I'm a weird dude.
I'm not like, I'm not, you know, so yeah. So then I'm super excited to have you on.
What are we drinking today?
Well, I swore off the sauce about 22 years ago, almost 23. So, so my favorite is Diet Dr. Pepper,
the DDP. Yeah, you know me. Yeah, that's that's a deep cut. You have to have been through the
90s to get that. But yeah, that's my, that's my favorite. And you got a can too, huh? Yeah.
Now, I'm going into my fancy glass. Okay.
Only the only the most high class. Yeah, images in this class. Yeah. Well, when you when you don't
drink or like, for me, when I don't drink, sometimes I have to feel fancy. So I have
champagne flutes, but it is for sparkling apple cider. And Christmas and stuff like that. So
so you're you like fully like, are you just not swearing off the sauce that have to do with
your Mormon belief? Or is that just more oddly enough, it was something I started before I
joined the LDS church, I have, I have a sorted background with various of the vices.
And that was something that I decided this is causing more harm in my life than good.
And it's just not worth it for me. So it was actually something I I swore off before I became
interested in the LDS church or got baptized. Yeah, so it wasn't that was not hard for me. I'll
be honest. The most difficult thing for me was quitting smoking. And that is the only thing that
to this day, if I smell someone who is just lit with a cigarette, because that initial
part of a cigarette, that's still like, oh, oh, yeah, I'll stand next to people if they're smoking
and just like, and just like passively smoke a little bit. I only smoked for about a year, but
I gave up on Amy's birthday when we first started dating. And just coincidentally, and then I was
like, Oh, it's her birthday. I might as well keep doing this. And then, but I had dreams for like,
I was only smoking for a year, but I had dreams still then, like of like, you know, for some
reason in the dream, I had to smoke someone's holding a gun to my head. And it's like, there was
no responsibility anymore. I just had to have a cigarette. And it was it's weird. Hey, it's a
strong addiction. Yeah, yeah. And a lot of people are like, man, it must be hard not to drink. And
that's not a big deal. I don't miss that at all. But for some weird reason, I miss smoking. And
I have kind of a I'm fidgety. And so a cigarette was always a wonderful thing to have to mess around
with with my fingers. So now I just chew gum nonstop until I started the podcast. And my co-host was
like, Hey, man, that's really irritating. So now I tried not to I'm doing the things, right? That's
another one of the things. Let's let's share some of your links. And let's can you tell us a little
bit about. So first of all, we have your amazing book, which is it's a scholarly book, right? But
it's it fits somewhere in like the like, it's touching the edges of my reasoning. Like I'm
I'm understanding it, but it's a slow read for me. Yeah, there's no way I could just blaze through
this. So yeah, I'm really looking forward to diving deeper into it. Yeah, you have it available on
Amazon. And you also have it freely available if someone wants to get it from your links as a PDF,
right? Yeah, yeah. And it's also available at sblpress.org. The Society of Biblical Literature
is the publishing house that published this. And so you can get it directly from them. But
yeah, it is I did decide to publish this open access. So it would be freely available. So
on my link tree, I believe if you just Google the title, you know, put quotes around it, but
Google the title, one of the first if not the first link should be to the PDF. And then you
can just freely download and share that PDF. So here we go. Yeah, which is so so baller of you
to do that. This is this is this is it doesn't it doesn't this is this this is a good book like
it doesn't this is just like, you know, someone's putting out like an Amazon book. This is a this
is highly highly recommend. You also have a data over dogma podcast. Can you tell us a little bit
about that? Yeah, this is something that's it's been up for less than a month. I think we just got
the fourth episode up last Monday, which was an interview with Bart Erman on his new book Armageddon
what the Bible really says about the end. Tomorrow, I should be looking at a draft of this coming
week's episode, Monday's episode. And to be honest, we're like several episodes ahead right now. So
I don't remember what this episode is going to be about. But by tomorrow, some point tomorrow,
I'll have a little teaser up. And then I will have remembered what that episode is about. But this
is a friend of mine named Dan Beecher, who introduced himself to me back when I first started
on TikTok is local to Salt Lake City. Let's see, when the end of last year, a little further back,
he said, Hey, let's get lunch. I want to talk about an idea I had. He wanted to start a podcast
where he's in here. He has a podcast called Thank God I'm Atheist, which is him and a friend
talking about a lot of stuff, comedy, current events, stuff like that from, you know,
with an atheist framing. And he thought this would be something that was unique,
could fill a niche in the market where it's a believing scholar and then a non believing
non scholar. And we were just interviewed on an NPR show called Radio West, where
the host said, Oh, I heard about this. And I thought, Oh, they're just going to be debating
the whole time. And he was like, But no, that's not it. You're actually both kind of you, you're
providing the scholarly expertise. He's kind of the straight man. He's representing the common
person on the street saying, Well, we'll tell me more about this. Well, that sounds like this.
And can you tell me what that word means and that kind of stuff. And so we I have a lot of friends
who told me they would be happy to come on the show. So we started off with my dissertation
supervisor, Francesca Stavrikapoulou, who recently published
I'm such a fan of Francesca. Yeah, a wonderful book called God and Anatomy.
And I paid for it. I've used all my pocket money. I paid like $120 for a signed copy.
Oh, did you? Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I will probably know a little bad that one was free.
And personally signed. Oh, personally signed. And she was like, I'm going to put a smiley face
in the O with a little halo on top. And I love it. Yeah, she's amazing. And I also did some of the
I did I think 13 or 14 of the illustrations for the book. So that's part of the reason. So yeah,
when you see line drawings in here, those are mine. Yeah. Oh, wow. And I got one of the UK
versions, which has the gorgeous cover, one of the coolest covers I've ever seen. And I know
the American version, not even remotely is good. If I ever went to Europe, I'd be carrying that
whole book around with me the whole time, just in case I bumped into Francesca or a coffee shop
or something. And get a sign. The other thing you have I've got going on. And this is the last
promotion. But this is an amazing promotion. I signed up for one of them. You have courses coming
up. Yeah, actually teach like a zoom zoom class. Yeah. Shortly after I started gaining some attention
on on tiktok, I started having people reaching out Cindy teach any online classes. And I was like,
I don't yet. And I kind of started crafting a way to to provide online classes. And I had no idea
how to do this so that it would be one accessible but also be worth my time because it is it is
pretty time intensive to prepare this stuff and do it. But I hooked up with a friend named Pete
ends, who maybe many of you all have heard of Pete ends before. Wonderful scholar. But he was like,
here, do this. Do an hour on zoom, do 30 minutes of a live Q&A and then just tell them, hey, pay
whatever you want. And I was like, that sounds like a great model because that way it can be
accessible for people who can't afford to pay a ton of money for, you know, 13 weeks of a course
or something like that. And and I get to pick the topic I want to talk about. And so this upcoming one
on May 11 will be on the divine council. I'm really excited about this one. Like I could do I could
do five or six hours off the top of my head on the divine council. But we're going to do I have no
idea what that is. So I think that sounds that sounds awesome. Well, it's the answer to a lot
of questions that people have about the Bible. How come in Genesis one, God says, let us make man
answer divine counsel. How come in Genesis 322, the man has become like one of us answer divine
counsel. There are a bunch of things like that. What's going on in Psalm 82. What's going on in
Deuteronomy 32. What's going on in a bunch of other passages where it seems like there are a
bunch of gods working alongside collaborating with God. And that's because that's exactly what was
going on. So it's whoa, whoa, whoa. That's, oh, yeah, I'm going to have to sign up for this one.
I've done your Satan and the Bible class, which is really cool. And and is this this is cool
online class recording homosexuality and homosexuality and the Bible. Do you just get on and say
it's Adam and Eve, not Adam and Steve. Is that the whole course? Well, I thought about that.
But I put the data over the dogma, not the other way around. And so no, that was that took me a
long time to prepare because while I've done a lot of content creation about homosexuality in the
Bible, that's not actually my academic specialization. So I went deep into the reading list and spent a
lot of time reading up on that to make sure I was fairly representing the state of the field.
But also, I realized this is an important topic to a lot of people on a level that I cannot relate
to. And so I needed to do a good job for for them. And hopefully, I did a fair job representing the
data while also being sensitive to the fact that this for many people is can be up to and
including a question of life or death. So that was I tried to represent where the scholarship is on
the question and also point out that nobody who is using the Bible as a bludgeon against the LGBTQ
plus community is doing so responsibly, but is doing so in the interest of structuring values
and power in their favor and directly over and against the interests of marginalized and oppressed
peoples. And so I tried to make it very clear that where I stood on that issue as I frequently do in
my in my TikTok videos. And, you know, a lot of people thinking, but it says homosexuality is an
abomination. Well, to find out why you might be why there might be, but find out the full context
sign up for the courses. But that I I'm so excited to have you on. And we want to we're talking
today about monotheism and polytheism. And it all started when I was reading a book, and I was
listening to your podcast, when you went on Derek from MythVision's channel. Amazing. You mentioned
how kind of your master's thesis started as you analyzing the question about where did monotheism
develop in the Old Testament? So I labeled this stream the first God or like the first God, you
know, and I kind of wanted to I got super interested in like, where did this concept of God even come
from? And, you know, was there polytheism in the Bible? Is there monotheism? So could you maybe give
us some give us a start us off? Where do we even start? Yeah, well, I think I think doing this a
little autobiographically may be a helpful kind of narrative framework. I'll start off with saying
I wanted to discover where the threshold of monotheism is because a lot of people think, oh,
the whole Bible is monotheistic, but the scholarship has kind of been pushing that threshold back.
And when I decided I wanted to write this master's thesis, most people were saying it around
Deutero Isaiah. So Isaiah 40 through 55 is written in the post-exilic period. This is probably
where we first get, excuse me, the Dr. Pepper is doing its job. This is where we first get pure,
strict, philosophical monotheism. And so I wanted to write a master's thesis where I was
interrogating this, and I felt like I would be making a strong case in support of that argument.
Basically, I'm going to bring cognitive linguistics to bear on this question,
and I'm going to demonstrate that that's when monotheism begins. But as I got into the research
more, I realized I kept coming back to the question of what is a God? I mean, you got all
these references to gods in the Bible of all kinds, and people are like, oh, well, that's just
metaphorical. Oh, well, that's not a God-God. That's a little G-God, not a big G-God. That's
different. And so I decided until I could actually say this is what they thought a God was,
I couldn't really say this is when monotheism begins. And so my master's thesis had shifted from
when does monotheism begin to what is a God in the Hebrew Bible? And so it turned into
a cognitive linguistic interrogation of the conceptualization of deity in the Hebrew Bible,
taking what we have gathered experimentally regarding how language works, how words work,
how categorization works, and all of this. Can we look at the text in the Hebrew Bible and say,
this seems to be what they meant when they used words for God? And so that was what my master's
thesis was all about. And one of the things I kind of stumbled into towards the end of my thesis,
it was mostly done, but I found out about this other parallel field called the cognitive science
of religion. So cognitive linguistics applies neuroscience, cognitive psychology, evolutionary
psychology, all these other approaches related to cognition to understanding how language works.
Cognitive science of religion takes all of that and cognitive linguistics and applies it to
how the mind creates, curates, responds to, interacts with what we label religion.
And so I thought, wow, that probably has a lot to say about what a God is as well.
But I was done with my master's thesis by that time, so I didn't have a time to pursue it.
I think I've got a couple of sentences in there where I say, and then there's this other field,
and there's going to be some cool stuff coming out of there. But then when I managed to get
into a PhD program, I thought, that's what I want to do. I want to look at the cognitive
science of religion and how that can inform how we understand what they understood deity to be.
And the cognitive science of religion goes back as far back as we can go in human history,
and even before the evolution of humanity. A lot of cognitive scientists have traced back
kind of the spark of concepts of deity to some things that evolved within primates and other
animals before humanity ever evolved. And so by the time humanity hit the scene, we already had
some of these things baked into our cognitive architecture. However, we still needed a couple
other ingredients to get the cake just right. So what we start with is what they call hyper
what are the words for it? There's an acronym, the HAD model, Hyperactive Agency Detection
Device, which is kind of a somewhat of an outdated model. I understand all about that,
but just for the audience's sake, because they're not as smart as me. Could you explain?
Yeah, this is a theory that was developed in, I want to say the late 90s, early 2000s,
and it hasn't been entirely abandoned. It's just kind of been nuanced, and we have a better
understanding of it now. But basically, humanity, our mind, curates and mediates our perception
of the world around us and our interactions with it. We don't have any pure unmediated
access to the world around us. Our mind is doing all of it. It's telling us what we're seeing,
what we're feeling, what we're smelling. All of that is the mind saying, getting data,
and then interpreting it, and then telling us, projecting our experience of the world
onto our senses. And so one of the things that evolution has done for us has instilled deep,
deep in our cognitive architecture, a hypersensitivity to the presence of agency in the world
around us. So this starts way back before humans existed, where the first primates to arrive at
the conclusion that the rustling in the bushes might be something with teeth and claws that might
be focused on you rather than just the wind or something like that. They were going to live
longer. They were going to pass on their genes, whereas the one who assumed it was just the wind
was likely going to die sooner. And so that had an adaptive advantage. And so we developed this
adaptation for hypersensitivity to agency in the world around us, which means there are lots of
false positives. Many times it is the wind. Many times our house is settling and maybe something
wakes us up. And so because the cost of false positives is low, like maybe somebody makes fun
of you, whereas the cost of false negatives is you die, there's not really a ceiling to
that adaptation. And it just got more and more and more and more sensitive. And so this is why,
like if you go see a scary movie, you might go home that night and feel like somebody's in the room
with you. Or I don't know if, when I was a teenager, I used to go to sleepovers and we'd
watch Nightmare on Elm Street or Friday the 13th or something like that. And we'd all be
huddled in the living room in our sleeping bags. And then we'd dare somebody to go down to the
basement and run across the dark in basement and back and stuff. And I don't know if anybody else
is familiar with that sensation of trying to get up the stairs and get the door closed behind you
as fast as you can because something is reaching out for you. That's our mind projecting that
sensation that it projects when people are really there. Our sense of somebody in the room with us
is something that our mind projects onto our experiences. And so that can be as real to us
as it is when there's actually somebody there. And this is why, for instance, people who lose
loved ones, our brain, the part of our brain that tells us, oh, this is so-and-so, you know this
person, you love this person, you've known this person all your life, that enables you to link
the stimuli that are coming into your senses with this knowledge of who this is. That doesn't
just turn off. Your mind doesn't just automatically say, okay, we're not doing that anymore. And so
the smells, the pictures, maybe a piece of clothing, a piece of jewelry, those kinds of
things can still trigger that thing in our mind that tells us that person is there. And so you
frequently have people talking about feeling the presence of someone who a deceased loved one or
something like that. Well, you even see it with someone might say, I just can't believe they're
gone. I just can't believe it's this cognitive dissonance that goes on where it's like,
they occupy this part in your brain that was like, they are there, they're alive. And now
you know that they're not, but it doesn't feel like them. They feel still there.
And that's because when they are there, your mind is, your experience of their presence
is a combination of the incoming stimuli and your mind projecting the sense of their presence.
And that projection is still there. So a couple of other things had to develop within human
evolution. One is speech, human language, which allows us to, allows us to transmit a lot more
information, but also allows us to develop more connections and social cohesion. And then human
imagination is the other thing that needed to develop, which is a product of a lot of different
evolutionary forces, but human imagination just is infinitely more complex and more
sophisticated than that of any other species. And it allows us to maintain and communicate about
what cognitive scientists call alternative realities. And while some people might immediately
assume, oh, that means fairy tales and things that are false. But the reality is this means
talking about yesterday, talking about tomorrow, talking about corporations,
talking about nations, anything that is not directly accessible to our senses right now
is a product of imagination. It is us projecting this alternative reality abstractly and then
communicating it about it to others. And so that allows us to maintain understandings of
these alternative realities. And so like a corporation is a legal fiction, it doesn't exist
anywhere out there in the world. It's buildings, it's paper, it's people, it's products, but the
corporation itself does not exist outside of imagination. So it is, it is literally a figment
of human imagination. But once you get that sense that there's something or somebody out there in
the world, whether it is some kind of creature that might be after us, or whether it is our deceased
child or deceased mother or deceased spouse, and you combine it with that overactive imagination
that so many humans have, you start to share stories around the campfire about these unseen
imagined agents that are out there doing something. We don't know what. But you get these stories that
are shared and the more personal they are, the more meaningful they are to people, the more
they stick around. And then you start having discussions about interacting with them. What
do they want? What can they give us? How do we communicate with them? How do we make them happy?
And then you start having grave goods. You start leaving stuff in graves because we think that
once people die, they are still out there somewhere. And we imagine that they need light,
they need food, they need these things in order to continue existing. And maybe they can give us
information, maybe they can protect us, maybe they can find out why all these storms are happening
or why this flood happened, and maybe they can help us solve problems. And once you start getting into
these interactions, they become rituals. They become things that you do because you're a part
of this group. And you do them not just to interact with this unseen imagined agent, but also to
show to the other members of your group that you are willing to signal your fidelity to the group
and to its standards. So ritual takes over as what's called a credibility enhancing display.
It's something that we don't really have a great idea why we do it, but we do it so that we can
show others that we belong, that we can be trusted. And that's what helps keep societies together.
This is how societies can get bigger and bigger and bigger and more complex. But you can still
trust people that you may not know. So most of us every day or close to every day are going to
interact to some degree or another with people we don't know. And how do we know we can trust
this person, that this person is not going to kill us and take our money? There are a bunch of ways
that our society has developed what are actually just rituals that are intended to signal to others
that they belong, shaking hands, smiling at somebody you walk by, not muttering to yourself as you're
walking down the street. There are a bunch of different things that we do basically to signal
to the rest of the people around us, I'm one of the good ones. I can be trusted, I belong.
And so ritual extends well beyond what we label religion. It is a part of what helps societies
stay together. But when you have these unseen agents out there in the world that might have some
kind of power, might have some kind of access to special information to help us make decisions,
might be able to protect us from other unseen agents, those things become powerful,
particularly if they get taken up by social institutions. They become powerful means of
keeping societies together. And once we get to this point where whole societies are dedicated to
curating this relationship with this imagined agent who is supposed to be able to do all
these things for us, I think that's when you start talking about having a God, having a deity.
And these deities can be personal, they can be ancestral, they can be ones that don't care about
us at all, but we still have to appease them so that they don't get mad at us. And then the patron
deities are the ones that I get into in the book. These are the ones that oversee a whole nation.
So a social group that extends beyond kinship units and has multiple different kinship units
is a nation and they have that one patron deity over them. And this is for particularly complex
societies. And usually there are a handful of features that they provide. One is that they can
give us full access to strategic information. And this is where we get things like prophecy.
We can go to them to find out if we should go to war this year, when we should plant our crops,
if the floods are going to come on time, who we should have an alliance with,
whose daughter the king should marry. That kind of stuff is what cognitive scientists of religion
call full access to strategic information. So patron deities are usually supposed to do that.
They're also supposed to protect, fight battles for people. That's one of the main ways that they
maintain that social cohesion. And then they also engage in what cognitive scientists of
religion call covert monitoring. They are the eyes and ears of the nation that people can't see.
And as long as they're capable of punishment, they can minimize free writing, which is where
people in the society take advantage of the resources that the society provides without
putting in their own share to the resources. And so if you have this agent who is unseen,
who can monitor what everybody's doing and then can punish the free riders,
that reduces people's motivations to engage in free writing. And so it increases what they call
pro-sociality, which is it makes that social cohesion stronger. And so those are the three
main things that a patron deity does. And so when we get to Mesopotamia, when we get to Egypt,
when we get to Israel, when you get to Ugar, all these nations, these empires, these territorial
states, they all have their own patron deity that is basically doing those things for us.
And in the book, I point out, if we look at this kind of theoretical framework for what a deity is,
it provides this, that, and the other. This is how it develops. And then we look at the Hebrew
Bible, Adonai, the God of Israel, and El, the earlier God of Israel, they all tag every single one
of those bases. They do exactly what the cognitive science of religion says a patron deity is supposed
to do. And so that's kind of the first half of my book is establishing, here's a theoretical
framework for the development of deity concepts. Here's what the broad generic concept of deity
is all about in the Hebrew Bible. Here's how we can show that Adonai is just a regular old run of
the mill deity. And then I talk about how this deity is changing, is evolving in order to serve
the changing needs and circumstances of the nation. And in responding to these needs, you start to get
the conflation of Adonai and El, for instance. You get rid of some of the other deities of the
Pantheon, you get rid of Asherah, God's wife, you get rid of the other deities that are challenging
Adonai. And this is ways to make that patron deity more effective at prosociality, at keeping the
nation together. And then you've got crises like the exile. And you use that deity to keep the
society together, to stay strong, to make it through the exile and come out the other end and still
have that identity. So the deity is able to do these things. And as its divine profile gets larger
and gets more complex and gets more flexible, the deity can respond to more and different
circumstances. And so that's how Adonai becomes the exalted transcendent creator of all that exists,
that ultimately is the deity that the main three monotheistic religions, the Abrahamic religions
that they are focused on. So I don't really address that a ton in the book. I'm actually working on
another book right now for a general audience that's called... Oh, I can't wait to read that.
It's called Changing God. And the idea is basically to show how the biblical authors changed God
in order to respond to specific needs and circumstances and crises and things like that.
And how doing so made God a more effective God for the later generations, leading up to
basically the later philosophical concept of monotheism.
So so many fundamental mentalists would have switched off when you said,
Al, you know, because, okay, so, you know, I was a Pentecostal Christian. I believe very clearly
that there was one God from Genesis one, there's one God and that God is the creator of the universe.
And the only other gods that I kind of talked about are like idols and, you know,
I didn't have a... I was a Pentecostal. I wasn't like, you know, we didn't focus too much on the
Bible. We focus more on the feelings. Yeah. So, but yeah, there's clearly, in my mind,
there's clearly just one God. God certainly did not have a wife. I don't know where that comes from.
So can you talk about like, when you say Al and you also just so everyone knows,
you don't use the word Yahweh, do you? You'll say, I don't know why.
That's correct. So the way you pronounce it is the academic standard. So when I'm in a purely
academic context, that's usually what I will use. But shortly after starting to gain attention on
social media, I had a number of folks who followed the account who were Jewish individuals who reached
out and said, hey, can you, would you mind using one of the substitutions? And, you know, it's like
Hashem, which is probably the most common one for Jewish folks. Adonai is one that I have heard in
academic context and I have used in the past and to me sounds the least devotional or confessional.
And so I, you know, I don't want to make my page inaccessible for someone who is interested in
these data, but maybe uncomfortable for a reason like that. Because they're not supposed to say
that word, are they? For many Jewish folks, correct. That is something they don't pronounce.
And so, but also Jewish folks tend to be in, that's a marginalized community. And so I've said
before, you know, nobody is free from identity politics. I cannot be purely objective. But
when all other things are being equal as near as I can tell, I will always give the benefit
of the doubt to a less powerful group. So while some Christians might think I'm pretty offensive
to Christianity, you know, I'll own that while also giving this accommodation to a less powerful
group that does not cost me anything. Because I have used that in academic context before.
It is not something that is incredibly difficult for me. So now, when I'm holding up a book,
you know, like my book and I'm saying, this is my book, Adonai's Divine Images, you know, that
strikes people as a little odd, because they're looking at an entirely different word. But
but for the most part, it's, it's not a huge deal.
So, okay, it's the same. It's so similar, like Adonai, Adonai and Yahweh, two similar
concepts. I'll try and use Adonai, but I might forget. But the, the, so, yeah, how did you, so
before all the fundamentalists switched off, the how, how do you get from what the Bible says,
what it seems to say clearly to these ideas that, you know, there were, there were multiple gods
in the Old Testament and, and a divine counsel, how do you get, how do you get that from the text?
Like, where, or are you getting it from the text? Like, where, where is this coming from?
What demons do you have, Dan, that are making you believe these things?
Well, it is coming primarily from the text. And no, I understand.
I just want to hear my clip up.
There are, there's a long history of people noticing oddities in the Bible and not being
satisfied with the answers that have been given. So, like, Genesis 1, 26, 27, and God said,
let us create man in our image, in our likeness. And so that is what's called a
cohortive, a first-person plural imperative verb. That means there are plural us's there
before the creation of humanity. You have in Genesis 3, the serpent tells Eve, you're not
going to die. You're going to be like the gods, knowing good and evil. That's verse 5. In verse 22,
God says, oh, the human became like one of us, basically confirming that the serpent was 100%
correct, back in verse 5. So, who are the one of us? Sounds like it's the gods. Then you have in
Genesis 6, the Bene Elohim, the children of God, went down and took wives from the daughters of
humanity. And you have in Genesis 11, God again sees, they're building a tower. He says, let us go
down. And so just in the primeval history, Genesis 1 through 11, you have a bunch of
very explicit references to multiple gods. Now, there have been ways that have been developed
to explain that. In the Greco-Roman period, so before the New Testament was even composed,
before the life of Jesus, that was re-read as a reference to angels and other references to Elohim.
So in Job 1, 6, and in Job 2, 1, you have the Bene Elohim, the children of God, come trotting
into God's throne room. You have other references to the gods, and they get translated angels.
And so that doesn't satisfy everybody. And in the last few centuries, you've had people saying,
is this really what's going on here? Are these really angels or is something else going on here?
And we've discovered a number of texts, a bunch of them. Like the first big cache of
non-biblical literature that was relevant to the Bible that we found was over in Mesopotamia.
We discovered a lot of tablets. We were able to decipher the cuneiform of Akkadian, of Sumerian.
And this gave us a bit of a literary linguistic context for a lot of these discussions. And
people noticed there were parallels between what was being said in a lot of these texts and what
was being said in the Bible. And then in 1927, we discovered what are referred to as the Eucharistic
texts. This was not over in Mesopotamia, but just north of Israel in Syria. There was this city
discovered right near the coast with about a thousand tablets written in cuneiform, but it was in an
alphabetic script. There were only, I think, about 30 different characters rather than hundreds of
different characters. And so they thought, oh, this is probably alphabetic, not syllabic,
not ideographic, not anything like that. And we were able to decipher this language called Eucharistic,
which is very, very closely related to very early Hebrew. And this city was destroyed about 1200 BCE.
And now we could translate a bunch more texts. And this gave us even closer connections to what
was going on in the Bible. In fact, we have some Eucharistic texts that are quoted in the Bible.
So Isaiah 27.1, for instance, talks about how on that day Adonai will punish Leviathan,
the wriggling serpent, Leviathan, the twisting serpent, the dragon that lives in the sea.
And then you go over to what's called the ball cycle, which is about this
Northwest Semitic storm deity named Baal. And the corresponding Eucharistic name for Leviathan
is Lotan. And we have this text that says, Baal smote Lotan, the wriggling serpent. Lotan,
the twisting serpent, the dragon with seven heads. And the words used there, the order that they
occur in for those adjectival references to Leviathan are identical across the two languages.
So it certainly seems like whoever wrote this text 500 years before Isaiah was ever born,
Isaiah seems to have access either to that text or to some other version of that text.
And so there are a bunch of indications that the Bible is influenced by this other literature
to some degree or another. And this is, I compare it to the frog DNA in Jurassic Park.
There are a lot of gaps in our ability to reconstruct the concepts of deity in the Hebrew
Bible. But when we have the Eucharistic literature, if we're very, very careful about the comparative
research, we can kind of fill in some of those gaps and say it seems likely that this is going
on over here. So if the Hebrew Bible is taking over some of this praise that was directed at
the storm deity ball, is that happening anywhere else? And so we've got Psalm 29, where Adonai is
praised a bunch of times. The voice of Adonai, there are seven different ways that the voice of
Adonai is praised. And this voice is basically thunder and lightning. This is, you know,
causing the splitting the trees and causing the mountains to shake and all this kind of stuff.
It's seven different ways that Adonai's voice is compared to lightning. And then there are
three places that are named. And they are all places that are not in Israel, but are further
north in Syria, which is ball's territory. And so a bunch of scholars thought, hmm,
it sounds an awful lot like this is other literature that probably originally was
dedicated to ball, and then was taken over by Adonai. And it may have been as simple as just
trading out the names, or they may have doctored it up a little bit more, but they left the place
names that are all places that are further north where ball has sovereignty. And so we've got a
bunch of these indications that the Hebrew Bible in the earliest layers is representing
a view of the heavens and the pantheon that is much more closely related to what later
layers in the Bible is condemning as non biblical, as wicked. And we also start to discover indications
that maybe Adonai and L were not the same deity originally. For instance, the name Israel
doesn't refer to Adonai. Israel, Israel means let L contend or L contends or something like that.
But that's a reference to a deity named L. Now in the Eucharistic literature, the patriarchal
high deity is named L. And that's a different deity from the storm deity ball. We don't have any
references to Adonai at all anywhere in any text until around 840 BCE, where we suddenly get
three inscriptions that pop up. The Meshah inscription refers explicitly to Adonai as the
patron deity of Israel. And then we have the black obelisk of Shaman. These are the third. We have
the tel Dan steely, which refer to some kings in Israel and or Judah that have Yahwistic theophoric
elements in their name. And a theophoric element is just a title or a word or a name for God that
is included in part of your name. So my name is Daniel. Donnie yell means my judge is L is God.
So the L is the element. And so we can see that Adonai is suddenly on the scene and kings are
named after Adonai. So it seems an awful like this is the patron deity of Israel. But what happened
between this? We have a reference to Israel from an Egyptian steely from around 1208 BCE.
And then we got to fast forward over 300 years before we have our first reference to Adonai.
And at least in the Eucharistic literature, L and the storm deity were different deities.
And then Deuteronomy 32, 8 and 9 is this fascinating text where it says El Yon, which means most high,
which is usually a reference to the high deity. El Yon, when he divided up the nations, when he
separated the peoples according to the number of what is how does it go? When he divided up the
nations, he divvied out the peoples according to the number of the Bene Elohim, the children of God.
And so this is a head scratcher for a lot of people. Okay, so the nations were divided up
according to the number of the children of God. And then verse nine says an Adonai's portion was
Jacob. Israel was his inherited share. And so it sounds an awful lot like Adonai is not El Yon.
And Adonai is not the most high. Adonai is receiving as an inheritance, one of the nations.
And so Adonai seems like they must be one of the Bene Elohim, one of the children of God.
And this would fit very well with how the Pantheon was structured at Ugaritz and in other places
around Israel. And more recently, we have a couple of inscriptions from Egypt, one from the 1300s,
the early 1300s BCE, and another from the early 1200s BCE, that refer to a land of the Shasu.
That is the name of this land is Y-H-W and then like a glottal stop, an aleph.
And a lot of scholars think this is a version of the tetragrammaton, the divine name, the name
Adonai, but before it was a divine name, when it was the name of a land. And so a lot of scholars
think that this the Shasu group that occupied this land that was known by this name may have
moved into the northern hill country and brought their deity with them, who was named after the land
Adonai. And so maybe Adonai was a secondary import into the Israelite Pantheon. And initially was
on the second tier of the Pantheon, was one of the children of the High God. And then probably
some king rose to the throne, decided they were bringing their ancestral God, their, you know,
their old family God with them. And rather than try to knock El off their throne and say it's
Adonai now, baby, they're going to merge the two. And now we have Adonai Elohim, the Lord God, a single deity.
It's amazing how knowing the context around the surrounding parts of the Bible can really
open it up. And that's something that I've just found so fascinating since studying
these things. And I was saying to, I was talking to Matthew Munger last night. And I was saying that,
you know, meeting you guys is like my highlight of the year. And then I corrected myself and said,
actually, maybe it was the birth of my son. It's definitely up there. If your wife is listening,
that's definitely what I'm saying. And, you know, like, this is an example, I'm going to
write down for the audience. And this is just what's in my mind after your state's discussion with
deep platforming, transphobes and things like that. So we, so like, if someone in the future
was reading tweets from somebody, and they saw someone tweet out, the human female is the most
beautiful thing in existence or something, right? You go, okay, cool. Find tweet like nothing wrong
with that, whatever. Like, but if you find out that person's like, incredibly transphobic,
suddenly that that the human female is the most beautiful thing ever has a different meaning.
Suddenly, it's actually a jab at, at trans females. So it's a great way to, I guess,
illustrate the point that knowing the context around the information, the data actually gives us
more insight to what the data is trying to actually say. Yeah. Yeah, well, the language is so much
more complex than a handful of words that, that simply transport a little package of meaning.
There is so much that can go on nonverbally. There's so much that can go on in even around
the conversation that if you're aware of those settings, you can, you can recreate a lot of
that meaning. And this is something that I've, I'm still trying to find the best way to communicate
about this to the general public, because it seems like something that is, that a lot of people are
uncomfortable with. Oh, definitely. And I'm going to ask you about that, actually, because you're
religious yourself, but let me just, let me first, we have a super chat from Aaron
Goulson, the Poop of Deep Drinks Podcast. How long have a pantheon, I'll be talking about,
how many members of the pantheon would be common for that region? So when we look at Deuteronomy
32, 8, and 9, and it says the, the nations were divided up according to the number of the children
of God, we're pretty sure that number was 70. And there are a handful of reasons. One is that we
can go look at Genesis 10, which is called the table of nations, which is kind of a breakdown of
all the nations that were thought to have proliferated following the, the deluge, the flood, and they
number 70. And 70 is kind of a round number that functions very similar to the way like a million
functions today. You know, I played golf today, I shot a million. Oh, that's going to cost a million
bucks. It's just a big round number that just means a lot. And so 70 is very similar. It's
used to mean a lot. And so when we look in the Eucharistic literature, we have Asherah,
who is El's wife, El's consort, the mother of the gods. A couple of times they're referred to as
the mother of the 70 gods. And so scholars looking at these two things, it sure seems an awful lot
like whoever wrote Deuteronomy 32, 8, and 9 would have put the number of the Benelohima at 70.
Ugar, at Ugar, they explicitly put the number of the children of God at 70. And so that seems to
be the nice round number for how many nations there are on earth and then how many deities there
are in the Pantheon. Now, they probably could not have rattled off 70 names of deities. There were
the ones that were around them. We have some more information about some of the, those nations and
the deities they had. But the main ones would have been Baal, would have been Milcombe, the deity of
the Ammonites, would have been Chemosh, the deity of Moab, Asherah was considered to be the deity of
Sidon, even though they were also a goddess in Israel. Kos is another deity from further south.
So you see a handful of the names of foreign deities. But for the most part-
And this is just in like Israel, like this is just in Mesopotamia.
Yeah, in this part of ancient Southwest Asia, we have, once you get into the Exilic period when
Israel is in Babylon, you don't really have many of the Babylonian deities named. There's a reference
to Bell as one of the deities, which is probably an East Semitic variation on Baal. You don't have
many of those deities named because by this time period, it's becoming less and less acceptable to
use the names. And so they refer to the abomination of this nation, or they start using the word
Elohim, which is a Hebrew word that sounds kind of like Elohim, but is used to mean it is a word
that means worthless things. And so instead of referring to another nation's deities, their Elohim,
they refer to their Elohim, their worthless things. And a friend of mine published a wonderful
article a few years ago that made the argument that Elohim is probably riffing on one of the
Mesopotamian deities, Enlil. In Hebrew, the consonant cluster, you have vowel consonant,
consonant, nl in the name Enlil. That consonant cluster is uncomfortable in Hebrew. And so they
usually have the n sound assimilates, and you get a doubling of the l sound. And so Elohim would be
one way to kind of turn this main deity's name into a word that meant worthless things. So
that may be a reference to one of these other deities. You don't have a ton of deities named in
the Bible, but yeah, around 70. If you ask somebody, how many deities are there in the
pantheon? They'd be like, oh, there's 70. Can you name them all? And then you have,
what was I going to say? Oh, there's a wonderful book called The Dictionary of Deities and Demons
in the Bible, which goes through and has articles on every single deity that is named or referred to
or might be referred to in the whole Bible. And it's a very expensive volume, but if you don't
tell anybody, you can probably find a PDF on archive.org. But you didn't hear that from me.
Okay, wow, wow, wow. That's super exciting. We have a few little members comments. First
of all, super chat. I'm ready to start swiftly editing. Thank you so much. Dave, same person,
River City, William Dave, just talking all to dumb down. Thank you. And so God has a
dad, is the evidence of that in the literature. So let's just pump the brakes a little bit as
more fundamental as we leave. So we have, so this didn't really, so I've heard the idea that God had
a wife, which would make sense if he has a son, right? He has to conceive that son. It's that,
but like, but I mean, unless you have like a, you got a single dad going on, like, I don't,
I don't know, like, you know, and then a father, like, okay, this is getting really weird.
Give us a, help me, help me, help me understand. Yeah. So, so like I said, if, if the prevailing
academic theories are, are right, then Adonai would have been a secondary transplant into the
Israelite pantheon and would have come in as one of the Bene Elohim, one of those deities that was
mentioned in Genesis six, one of those deities that was mentioned in Job one and Job two,
one of these second level deities, and they would have been the storm deity, but El or Elion
referred to as Elohim sometimes as well, would have been Adonai's father, they would have been
the patriarchal high deity. And there was probably a period in early Israel and these texts are long
gone by now, but there was probably a period when El was represented as quite a sexualized deity.
In the Eucharistic literature, we do hear a lot about El's member. And there's a euphemism that is
Yad, which means hand. And it talks about, you know, El's strolling along the beach and and sees some,
some women up there, just playing or something. And, and it says his El, his El, his, his hand
grew as long as the sea or as large as the sea or something like that. And this is this is a story
about him impregnating these deities, and they give birth to the gracious gods. And so there's,
there's a lot of what's called cosmogony or the, the procreation of the host of the heavens and
the other deities. And so that's probably in the background of El in the Hebrew Bible. And if we
look at Genesis 49, 24 through 26, we have these very, very archaic poems that are blessings that
Jacob is giving. And the references to Joseph talk about El Shaddai, which would be El of the
wilderness or El of the mountains. Some people think Shaddai, which can also be a word for breasts,
based on word for mountains. El Shaddai might be the God of the breasts or something like that. I
think it's most likely God of the wilderness mountain region, something like that. But it
talks about them blessing, giving blessings of the breasts and of the womb. And it has a very
agrarian, very non-urban, rural feel to this ancestral deity. And so most of those references
have probably are long gone, but we still see some kind of vague hints at this period when El was
the patriarchal father God, and then Adonai was the youthful, storm deity child of God. But when
they were conflated, then Adonai inherits everything that belonged to El, the title, that
patriarchal status, their rule, their sovereignty over the divine council, and their wife.
So yeah, okay. So I know that my brain got like locked on when you said God had a huge member
at one point. But I'll just remember in Francesca's book, she talks about this.
So can you touch a little bit on that, where that idea developed? Is it a scholarly consensus?
Like where does this concept that... So just to give everyone some background with my dumb
down interpretation, but for a long time in the Hebrew Bible, God was a physical
God. Like if he had physical hands, arms, legs, and everything, and he had a penis and that penis
was huge. And there's a scripture that she uses in the Francesca points out in Isaiah. I think it
is that it's like he's talking about, poetically talking about God, God's dick essentially being
so big that it fills the room, right? Is that right? Yeah. And it's being translated as garment,
but really, if you look at the context, it's not that. Can you talk a little bit about that?
Yeah. So that's Isaiah 6. That's what's called a throne theophany. That's where Isaiah has the
vision of God seated upon their throne. And I think in the KJV, it says something along the lines of
his train or the train of the skirt or something like that, filled the temple. And this word that
is translated train and or skirt is a word that is used in two different ways in the literature.
In Exodus, when it's talking about putting together the tabernacle and stuff like that,
it seems to be used to refer to the hem of a robe. But in other literature, it is referring to genitals
or buttocks because the word literally means something like hanger downs, things that are
hanging down. And so we have an interpretive decision to make here. Do we understand this
in the terms we find in Exodus? Or do we understand this in the terms we find in this other literature?
Now, in the other literature, it's usually referring to genitals that are exposed and it's
bringing shame to somebody. And so some people make the case that that means this is not referring to
that. But other people make the case that this is the author kind of toying with both
potential meanings. Because if it's the hem of the robe, then it's covering up God's body. It is
masking. It is hiding. If it is a reference to the genitals, then it is uncovering. It is exposing.
And so there are scholars who have argued, well, it should be one. Other scholars who've argued,
no, it should be the other. And then other scholars who have argued, hey, it's probably a
little bit of both. The author is probably saying, haha, figure that one out. And just letting both
of those ideas be there. Isaiah's vision reveals and at the same time, does not. And that ambiguity
in and of itself is kind of doing that. It's kind of revealing while also hiding. Oh, am I showing
you or am I not showing you? That's up for you up to you to decide. And it's something very similar
goes on in Ezekiel, where in Ezekiel one, Ezekiel sees this vision and he's using like every single
way of hedging that he can. I kind of saw the likeness of the image of the similarity of the
thing that kind of looked like it was maybe God. Wait, what versus is this? Sorry, Ezekiel.
Ezekiel one, let me pull up the
yield Hebrew. This is my favorite.
All right. So we see the orphaning, the wheels, we see the living creatures,
and then they they had a platform above them.
And then we get verse 26, there's a throne. Yeah, verse 26, toward the end, upon the likeness
of the throne was the likeness as the appearance of a man above upon it. It was like, hey,
something that kind of looks sort of kind of maybe ish like a dude. But this passage in
27, Ezekiel seems to be focusing on this figure's loins. The loins are kind of home base for this
description, from the appearance of his loins upward. And from the so I'm reading from the KJV,
but the NRSV says to do there's 27. Oh, they don't even the NRSV kind of
kind of mask the reference. Okay, what appeared like the loins, I saw like gleaming amber,
something that looked like fire downward from that, from what looked like the loins,
I saw something that looked like fire and there was splendor all around. So this is another way
that the author is kind of both hiding and revealing, trying to explain what's going on here,
while also trying to preserve some of the mystery. And it's kind of like a literary strip tease
of some kind, making you think you're getting the picture here, but the whole time kind of
hedging as well. And some people are pretty Victorian in this and are like, no, we can't
possibly be referencing it. We can't do that. But this is something that's common in the ancient
world, this should not surprise us, even in the rabbinic literature, there are discussions about
God's genitals. One of the most fascinating ones, I think, is where the rabbis are asking if
Adam is circumcised. And they say, well, Adam was created in the image of God, God circumcised,
Adam must have been circumcised, because God is perfect. And so a circumcised member is a
perfect member. So yeah, this whole sensitivity and this kind of embarrassment about that kind
of thing is a thoroughly modern, modern-ish thing. I love that you used like really correct
word, like political member, and I'm like, dick. And I definitely bring something to this. I'll
bring the common man to this table. I have to maintain some sense of scruples for some of my
audience. Of course. Gettysburg Demoniak, thank you for the Fortal 99 Super Chat. I really appreciate
it. Was it Jesus' worship among other deities in the first and second century, and how much was
the exclusivity created by early Christians? I think in the first and second century, it would
not nearly have been as widespread as worship of other deities around Adonai in the pre-exilic
period. But there were absolutely people who were more cosmopolitan people, kind of the
hoi paloi, if you will, the common folk who would have had no problem whatsoever with sprinkling
some incense on an altar as they go to work out at the gym or something like that. There are
absolutely would have been examples of that. We see that in early Judaism and in early Christianity,
where Christians and Jewish people are naming kids with theophoric elements from other deities,
where they have their making offerings and their writing letters and stuff like that,
where they sign off XXOO in the name of Hathor and in the name of Jesus and in the name of this
other deity. And you have in later antiquity, you have a lot of magic going on where Jesus and even
Adonai are some of the main deities involved that you petition for this magic, but they're also
operating alongside other deities. But I think even more common than that, you probably have angels
who are functioning similar to the way saints function in Orthodox traditions, where you're not
appealing to the angel to do everything, but you're appealing to the angel to appeal to God
on your behalf. Or you're appealing to the angel who has responsibility over brick making,
so that your bricks will be successfully made or something like that. And there was a deity...
Probably Shinto-esque, right? It was like gods of everything. Oh my God, but without calming of
everything. Well, and what's that? And I think that's a product that's bubbling to the surface
in different ways in different societies, but that's a product of this perception that all these
different functions of the universe are the responsibility of these agents that we don't see.
So you would have one who would be in charge of the rain and another that would be in charge of
the rivers and another that would be in charge of making sure the bricks were successfully
made. And that is an actual deity from ancient Egypt, the brick making deity, one of the lower
level deities. But yeah, there are a lot of similarities. I wouldn't go so far as to call them
archetypes, but there are shared aspects of the human experience that result in deities kind
of bubbling to the surface in very similar ways. But yeah, the angels would have been a big part
of that as well. So you would have magical papyri or inscriptions on bowls or execution texts or
things like that that might appeal to Jesus, might appeal to Adonai, and might appeal to a
bunch of other gods too. And that all can be labeled worship. Maybe Jesus was the main one,
maybe Jesus was their guy and these other ones were Jesus's whatever you want to call him,
henchmen or his subordinates or whatever, but that can all be referred to as worship.
Yeah, and there's so much to go. I've got that just from reading the first
introduction to your book, actually. But Aaron Coulson said, the brick deity got laid a lot.
So we have a little video from Matthew Monger, and he sent in a visual representation of me
when Dan gets into trouble, gets in over his head. Okay, so he sent this video. And then he also,
and I said, there's some other characters in this video. And then I said, well, who's this
person? Who's that person? And he said, Kip is the one fighting. And Dr. Josh is the one
that is saving at the end. So this is apparently, so this is when, so apparently you're the kitten.
This is, and Dan's trying to help you. So he jumps down to try and help you out of the muck.
He's a bit scared. And the, so you're stuck in this muck. This is what this is. This isn't my
worst. This is what Matthew was saying. And he's trying to get you out, but he can't get you out.
So you see some, some, you know, he's checking you out, making sure you're okay.
He throws you up a couple of times.
You're crying, it seems.
And then he kind of gives up. And then there's Kip, and Kip's just kind of fighting other monkeys
apparently. So that's, that's Kip. And then Dr. Josh Bowen comes in at the end,
who's this lady here, and picks you both up out of the muck. So I was wondering if you had,
if you think that's an accurate representation of your relationship with those guys, or if you think
Matthew is being, do you have a response? Do you have a diss?
I'm not a big diss track guy. So,
what are you doing?
So, yeah, that's, I don't know where they come up with this stuff, or I don't know what,
what corners of the internet they are, what hovel and what corner of the internet they're in,
where they're, they're running across this stuff and thinking, you know what, I bet this would
make a really cool metaphor.
He sent me videos of him and, so what are you doing, drinking, and then they're over in Norway
together apparently at the moment. Yeah, you know, hanging out. So yeah, yeah, that's, that's cool.
So everyone get your, get your questions in. If you're super chat, I'll make sure to read it out.
And also, just a shout out to the channel members. We're starting to grow Patreon supporters and
channel members, which like really helps me feel good. It's not necessarily about the money,
but it's like, at least people like enjoy the show enough to be able to support it. And I really
appreciate it. So I've been trying to add more content to the community members. So we had a,
let me just share my screen one more time. So we had a question, we would take, we've got a
couple of questions from just the public. And what I'm going to start doing is I'm going to start
adding questions for channel members as well. So I used, I used AI to blend a photo of Dan
and Superman because I know he likes superheroes. We didn't get any questions from members because
we only have like a few members. But if you do become a member, I'll be doing this in the future.
And you get priority to ask questions if you can't catch the live streams. And of course,
you can support this stream on Patreon. And you can support Dan by selling out to one of these
courses. So let's, let's share the love around it. So really, it really helps mentally, I think,
as well, like people actually like what I'm doing. It's good. So a question I really want to ask is
how you've got, you're committed, let it say, and, and I imagine that someone, and you don't
talk about your own personal beliefs. And that's, that's cool. We're going to respect that. But
I imagine that someone who would discover these things might try in, they might take
different approaches. So I have a tweet here from, from our friend, not friend, but friend of everyone
Eric Hovind who says, this is one way of looking at it. If science doesn't agree with the Bible,
science needs to catch up. So that's like a typical example you might see of someone who takes one
side of the, one side of the aisle on one side of the spectrum on their belief system, where you
seem to take a very different, you seem to go with scholarship first. And I don't even know if that
affects your personal faith, but how, how one, do you have advice for people who maybe find these,
find things like this conflicting with their faith and they don't want that to conflict with
their faith? Or how do people deal with this in general within religious communities when they
get involved in scholarship? I think you have a, it depends on what part of their, their journey,
if you want to call it, they are in, because there are an awful lot of people who are,
they've adopted a number of ideologies, a number of dogmas, everybody has dogmas to some degree or
another. But some of those are deeply embedded and it is very difficult to extract dogmas once,
once it's clear that the data don't support them. And particularly if someone is embedded within a,
a community where their sense of self is profoundly entangled with that community and what that
community says is important. And so it can become, it can be very deconstructive, it can be very
traumatic to one's own sense of self to subject a lot of these dogmas to scrutiny.
So sometimes people are, you know, they're open to, to things, but it just, it is difficult for them,
it is, it, it doesn't feel great. Other times there are people who are kind of proactively
apologetic and are going out to try to wage war on behalf of their community. And I think those
people tend to be a lot less receptive to, to good faith engagements like, like our brother in
Christ there, Hovind, who is, like, when you look at history, you see the religious dogma catching
up with the science, like it conflicts. And then at some point, the religious folks have to kind of
pivot and say, all right, fine. You know, maybe the earth is not flat. And then they go back and
retcon that, that new understanding back into the Bible. And now we have people who are like,
Isaiah says that the earth is a sphere and Job says that it hangs in the nothingness. And so how
did they know all this stuff? I was like, no, that is us looking back and saying what we know now
is what they knew all along. And it's just retconning what we had to be dragged, kicking and
screaming into accepting as a, as a faith community. So nobody who looks at the history takes seriously
the notion that if they conflict, then science needs to catch up with, with the Bible. That's
just something that somebody that people say to make themselves feel better, and to make themselves
feel better. And to kind of help other people commit to those boundaries and those identity
markers. And so I think for, for folks who are struggling with this, I mean, that's, that's just
a fact of life. Everybody, everybody struggles with trying to understand their, their, how their
ideologies fit with the real world. There's a, there's a saying I learned in graduate school that
has all kinds of application is that map is not territory. And what that means is that when we
look at a map, we're not looking at the territory itself, we're looking at a reconstruction of that
territory that serves certain purposes and omits most of the information and only includes what is
considered relevant in order for that map to serve its function. And that's true of words and their
relationship to the ideas in our minds. That's true of conceptual frameworks we develop as true of
science. The map is not the territory in science either. And when we find disconnects, it can be
pretty traumatic to try to reconcile them. And what I would say is maybe reconciliation
shouldn't be the goal. Maybe the goal should just be to learn from this and figure out a way to
make yourself a better person. Whether that means abandoning that map or whether that means
just recognizing this is just a map, but that doesn't necessarily mean it's not useful to me or it
does not bring meaning into my life. I think since the Enlightenment, since the, the Reformation and
the Enlightenment, a lot of people have begun convinced that religion is entirely about truth
claims. And a lot of people think of it that way. And that's another situation where the map is not
territory. The cognitive science of religion, I think, makes a pretty strong case that for most
people, most religion is about a sense of meaning, a sense of community, finding purpose, and a bunch
of stuff in addition to what the truth claims are. And so there are a lot of people who are
committed religionists, not because they are wholly committed to the truth claims, but because
they're committed to all the other aspects of it that bring meaning into their lives, help them
find purpose, help them find a sense of community, help them get out of bed every day and hopefully
go help people. But when people get caught up in the identity markers and the boundary maintenance
and the structuring of power and values, too often that results in getting out of the bed every
day to go hurt other people just to advance their own interests. And so religion is like
anything else. It's like language. It's like countries. It's like law enforcement. It's like
anything where in some context, it can do good things. In some context, it can do bad things.
And so, yeah, I'm hoping that with my channel, I can help people think a little more critically
about their engagement with these things, whether that means helping them maintain faith, help
them get rid of faith, help them feel good about having gotten rid of faith long ago, helping them
maybe come to respect people of faith a little bit more if they are very condescending or very
anti-religious or some people that help them feel justified in being condescending and anti-religious.
So I don't know if that answered your question directly, but that's where the train took me.
No, and that was so beautifully worded. We are huge advocates for the LGBT community
on this channel, mainly because, not mainly because, but the first guest I ever had on,
I think I've mentioned this every episode, but the first guest I ever had on was a friend I
met in BIP Bible College who was closeted for 45 years and never had a partner, nothing.
And they came out of the closet and they're happily in a long-term relationship now.
And for a long time, they were in the closet because they thought that it wasn't
okay to be gay and be a question. And I noticed that you have a watch on now. It's either the
wristband is either because you're an LGBT ally or you love rainbows or you think of Noah's flood.
It's a mix of the first two. Okay, cool. So I know you have that course. So I just,
just for people who, and I threw the course link in the description, but could you give, and here
it is again, but could you give people just a little like a five-minute taster on something
that'll, if they're interested in this subject, they can go do your course or listen to your
course recording. And could you just touch on homosexuality in the Bible quickly?
Yeah, happy to. That's something that is very controversial. It comes up a lot. And one of
the reasons I comment on it is because I see misinformation from both sides. Folks who talk
about the Bible condemns homosexuality, God hates homosexuality, all that demeaning, marginalizing,
harmful rhetoric. And then on the other side, there are folks who say, oh no, that's all been
mistranslated. It's actually a condemnation of pedophilia or of sexual abuse or something like
that. And that's misinformation on both sides. Homosexuality as a sexual orientation is something
they didn't really understand in anything remotely approximating the way we understand it today.
Our current theories about sexuality and sexual orientation are really rooted in the 19th century
and the scientific theoretical models from that time period. So, anciently, they thought of
same-sex intercourse as motivated by a bunch of different things. So, men would be motivated
toward such relationships for entirely different reasons than women might be motivated toward
such relationships. Men who pursued the active or the insertive role in same-sex intercourse
would be motivated by entirely different things than men who would pursue the passive or the
receptive role in such an act. And so, when we look at how they thought about sexuality and how
they thought about same-sex intercourse, anciently, their understandings of the way the human body
works and sexuality works, their understanding of why this may be good, bad, or indifferent,
their understanding of the effects of these things, wildly, wildly outdated, irrelevant to today.
And so, if we want to transfer what they condemned anciently, and in Leviticus 18 and 20, they do
seem to explicitly condemn in each of those two passages, male, same-sex intercourse. In one of
them, it seems to be only the active partner in that act. In the other, a later editor seems to
have added on condemnation of the passive partner as well. Not a word about female same-sex intercourse,
which is odd, because in each chapter, the next, the very next verse, condemns bestiality, but then
also tax on, oh, this is also wrong for women to do. And so, it is not a blanket condemnation of
all same-sex intercourse. It is very clearly and conspicuously only addressing male same-sex
intercourse and conspicuously omitting the female. And so, when we look at what's going on in Leviticus,
it is condemning just the male same-sex intercourse. When we get to Paul in Romans and First Corinthians,
First Timothy wasn't written by Paul. It was just somebody who was mimicking Paul. But it's there as
well. We have an entirely different idea of human sexuality that is more influenced by
Greco-Roman social mores and philosophical thought. And there are these hierarchies of
domination and penetration that were active anciently and were a little more systematic
in the Greco-Roman period. And so, we do now have a condemnation in Romans 1,
26 of female same-sex intercourse. But Paul's sexual ethic is even weirder than the one we find
in Leviticus, because Paul is a dogmatically celibate man who thinks that Jesus is coming back too
quickly for anybody to worry about procreation. He doesn't care about procreation. Everybody should
just be celibate, and you should only get married if you can't hack celibacy. And if you do get
married, your intercourse should be without passion. It should be holy and honorable and not with
the passion of desire like those Gentiles who don't know God. And so, scholars, most scholars who
study Paul's sexuality would say that Paul is advocating for rare prophylactic sexual intercourse
for married couples. In other words, only do it whenever those dirty little desires
pop up. Just do it to tamp him back down. So, sex should only happen when it's necessary to
keep down the urges, as the great poet Ned Flanders once said. And so, Paul's sexual ethic is just
bizarre and also has no relevance to how we understand sexuality today. And so, I would say
that the Bible does, in its own little specific ways that are not generalizable to all homosexuality
and not even generalizable to all acts of same-sex intercourse, they do condemn it. However,
we have already negotiated away so much of what the Bible condemns. There are a ton of things that
we just decided, eh, and not for us anymore. And we're perfectly fine with that. From beginning
to end, the Bible is perfectly happy with slavery and even endorses it explicitly. We decided we
weren't, that wasn't for us anymore. And so, we now consider slavery, many Christians would consider
slavery a sin. There wasn't a single person who wrote in the Bible who would have thought it was
a sin. That's something we've renegotiated. Paul's idea that celibacy is the ideal and you should
only get married to have rare, passionless, prophylactic sex. Not for us anymore. We're happy
abandoning... I'm a passionate man, Dan. Paul would not have been a big fan. So, we're happy
negotiating that away. People will bring up that Leviticus calls this abomination. Yeah,
well, Deuteronomy calls women wearing pants abomination. And most of us, not all of us,
but most of us are happy to have abandoned that as well. And so, the point I try to make is
it does seem to condemn some things that they understood in wildly different ways and they
condemn for totally irrelevant reasons. But that's all negotiable. That does not have to be relevant
to today. And the only reason some people insist on its relevance is because that has become an
identity marker that is useful for structuring values and power and for engaging in boundary
maintenance. So, it is up to us to decide when we are going to place the value of the lives that
are being lost every day because of this identity marker above the utility of the clobber passages
as identity markers and as tools in our structuring of values and power. Someday,
it's going to be negotiated away. It's up to us to decide how soon.
Aaron Coulson, the apostle Paul just unfolded a deep drink.
Thunder of a sand. But he's still following me.
What do you think of Paul? Like, do you have, because you obviously, I guess you don't really
have a high view of scripture like an inherent term. Actually, I've got a better question.
What do you think of like the, some of the early non, like heretical, what we now call heretical
beliefs about God. So, Marcian, Gnostics, Sethians, like, or like, do any of them like you find
interesting or? I'm going to put a pin in that because I did see a question that I think has an
answer. And this is a joke, but it has an answer. Ray Oshima says, Dan, because of your eloquent
exposition, I decided to convert to late First Temple Judaism. Just one question. Where can I
see God's dangly bits? The Contilledaj Rood inscription. Pithos A has a drawing of Adonai
and then Asherah by their side. And you can see God's dangly bits in that drawing very clearly.
So, really? Yes. I drew that in the inscription and the drawing are in my book.
What page? What page? You should have it memorized. I really should, but...
It's in here somewhere. I got the PDF. I don't know. I'm pulling up in the physical.
The physical copies are so nice. If you can... Oh, here we go. It is page 71. Let's see if we can...
So, that is... Yeah, you got it. Oh, yeah.
That's cool. I thought that was a troll comment, but...
Well, it has an answer. So, back to your question. I think Paul would have just
gone the way of Marcian and all the other folks who are mentioned in, for instance,
the letters at the beginning of the book of Revelation and mentioned by early Christians.
Had he not probably been the first person to commit his ideologies to text and to
circulate those texts? So, Paul's letters... Yeah, his letters were in circulation before the
Gospels were written, and so his was... were the first early Christian texts, and I think that
cemented his place in the foundation of Christianity. And once we get a New Testament by
the middle of the second century, when we have these texts that are... they're not known as the
New Testament yet, but are known as Christian Scripture, Paul is right next to the Gospels.
In fact, there's only one passage in all the New Testament that refers to any text of the
New Testament as Scripture, and that's in 2 Peter, where it refers to Paul's writings
and to the rest of the Scriptures. So, indicating Paul's writings were considered Scripture,
and this was written probably in the second quarter of the second century CE.
But once you get to that time period, Paul is there, which means that once you get the whole
New Testament together, you've now got kind of an overarching single interpretive lens being
applied to all of these texts, and you want it to kind of be reduced to a single idea. And Paul's...
because Paul is so thorough, and because Paul is so systematic, and because Paul addresses
so many different aspects of the Christian Gospel, that becomes like the driving interpretive lens
for understanding the rest of the New Testament. So, I would say, unfortunately, Paul's ideologies
become the beating heart of how the Christianity that was based on the New Testament developed.
And the others like Marcian wanted to get rid of the whole Hebrew Bible. Only a revised version
of Luke's Gospel was the only Gospel Marcian wanted, but then he wanted all of Paul's letters,
except for, I think, the past oral epistles. Those ideas, they were pretty anti-Semitic for one,
and they got rejected pretty soon after. But when you look at some of the canon lists that
start to pop up in the fourth and fifth centuries and see some of the texts that they omitted,
and some of the other texts that they included, Christianity would look entirely differently
today if some of those other canons became authorized. What's your favorite non-canonical
Gospel or writing? I think the most fascinating, the most difficult, but the most fascinating
non-canonical Gospel, I would say, is the Gospel of Thomas. I think there's a good argument to
make that some of those passages predate the canonical Gospels. And then a lot of them,
particularly the more Gnostic ones, are from the second century. They're from later,
but it's a Sayings Gospel. So it doesn't have a narrative framework that it's organized around.
It's just a collection of sayings, saying one, saying two, saying three, saying four. And so you
can just add more onto it, and you wouldn't really be able to tell any difference. And so
it's so difficult in that regard to arrange chronologically, but very clearly some of it
is Gnostic, which is an influence we don't see until the middle of the second century CE. But
there's a good case to make that other parts of it probably predate some of the canonical Gospels.
But in terms of non-canonical texts in general, that's a difficult one. I think some of the
ones that have the best argument to make for canonicity, at least if we're going off of their
influence, 1st Enoch was phenomenally influential on the development of the New Testament ideologies,
ideas like about hell, ideas about angels, ideas about heaven, ideas about apocalypse.
These things are heavily influenced by 1st Enoch. Some of the New Testament texts that
probably should have been included. The Epistle of Barnabas was quite early. The Shepard of Hermes
was quite influential. The Didache was pretty influential. Even 1st Clement was very, very
early, was an influential text. And then, yeah, Revelation has no business in the New Testament.
That's one thing I agree with Martin Lutheran is that it should have been ejected.
Oh, wow. Okay. I got some questions from the community tab on deep drinks. Oh, my gosh,
my brain. Something's happened with this Dr. Pepper. It's working.
So, I'll become a member of the LDS church.
No, that's Diet Coke that does that. Oh, yeah. Is this even allowed in mainstream?
There's the old guard would say that caffeine is bad. Back when it was like, because the official
text that all are the dietary restrictions is based on, it's called the Word of Wisdom,
says to avoid hot drinks, which is officially interpreted to refer to coffee and tea.
And so, when people got systematic about things, they were like, well, what is it about coffee and
tea? And it was really just part of this early 19th century temperance movement. But it became,
oh, it must be the caffeine. Okay. So, we're going to stay away from caffeinated beverages,
but we're going to drink hot chocolate like the world is coming to an end, which also has caffeine
in it. So, it's not very consistent. One of the guests I had on, Alyssa Whitbeck Alexander,
she got married in Temple and she was a strict Mormon, but she ended up leaving her faith. And
one of the first things they did is they got coffee, but as their first sin, it was their
birthday and she was like, I want to do something crazy. And they drove to another town and they
wore disguises and they went in like, do you have a cappuccino machine? And they're like, what?
They didn't know how to drink it. They thought it was disgusting.
So, you just try it and hang right next to you?
Yeah. They thought there was like a latte machine and a cappuccino. It's a funny story.
But this is one of the great questions we had. In Job 38, God speaks rhetorically about his
mighty works. He spends time in verse 31 and beyond alluding to what seems to be Zodiac imagery.
Is this correct? And what other gods may have been responsible?
So, Job 38 is, Job is a pretty enigmatic book. The scholarly consensus would be that this was
written in a Persian period. So, if there is influence going on from outside Judaism and
Zodiac imagery, I would say probably is, there's probably some influence from Babylonian religion,
maybe Zoroastrianism. But yeah, I wouldn't totally discount the possibility that there's Zodiac
imagery going on. But there's also kind of a more general kind of astrological consensus
in this time period that is not the Zodiac as we have it now, but is kind of a more generic idea
about the role of astrology and the workings of the heavens. And even in the New Testament where
you have the Magi coming, the Magi are basically astrologers. They are, and the point of having
the Magi come from the east and say, you know, we saw the signs in the skies where is this Messiah
is to say that this is such a big deal. This was so completely written in the very fabric of the
natural world that the people who are most trained in the world to understand the natural world and
what it means recognize that this all points to the Messiah. And then there's also a secondary dig
at Herod because they show up and they're not even Jewish folks and Herod is supposed to be Jewish
and they're like, we saw the sign. Where's the Messiah? And he's like, the what? And so it's a
huge dig at the brown patch needs a little bit. So I think there is there's definitely
astrological significance there and there could be some influence coming from Babylon coming
perhaps from Zoroastrianism. I don't think it's the zodiac as we understand it today. In fact,
I think all that Job 38 refers to is constellations. I think there's just a word there that
means constellations. And so I would say it's probably not a reference to the zodiac at all,
but but to a more kind of generic concept of astrology. Okay, let's see if this pops up. Oh,
yeah, it does. Can you please elaborate on the dating of the book of Acts and revelations with
relation to the earliest usage of the word Christian? Pliny, Pliny, Tacitus and the commenting on the
idea raised by Dr. Tabor that revelations may be in adaptation of an early text.
Yeah, I think somebody brought this up previously on Twitter, or maybe it was on
might have been on Instagram or TikTok. I saw the post on my on the community, because that's
where no, no, it was it was a conversation that someone and I briefly got into it may even been
on Patreon. I don't I don't remember at the moment. They all bleed together by the end of the day.
But yeah, I'm not sure I'm sold on on on James's argument, although I haven't looked very closely
at it. I think the academic consensus is still that Acts was written somewhere between 70 and
90 ish CE, whereas Revelation was probably written in the 90s, if not the early 100s CE.
And so this comes from I responded to a comment about Oh, yeah, yeah, it was
Jordan Maxwell saying the book of Revelation was written 500 years before Jesus, which is
pure and utter nonsense. And somebody was commenting, well, the book of Revelation was
around before Christianity. And there and I think there was a reference to this, the idea that you
don't have that word Christian until the book of Acts. And if Revelation was written before that,
then you could make the case that Revelation pre existed Christianity. And that also relies on
the idea that you can't speak about Christianity until the word Christian actually pops up in
the historical record. But I suggested I think most scholars talk about Christianity as existing
as soon as you have followers of Jesus after his death, who are forming an institution and
organization. And so that was a bit of a kind of some technical relative dating. But I would
have to look harder at James's argument. But I know that's not the consensus view.
Okay. And this is the last question. And there's a lot of people who just said,
I want your brain. Since the Dead Sea Scrolls version of Deuteronomy 32, 8 to 12 depicts Yahweh
as a subordinate, sorry, of El Helium, about the Christian Bible depicts Jews as monotheistic,
when did monotheism among Jews become the majority position? When did it become the
nearly exclusive position? So that depends on how you understand monotheism. And I gave a paper at
last year's annual meeting of the Society of Biblical Literature, where I argued that you
don't have monotheism until you have, well, the term is invented in the 17th century by Henry Moore.
And it is a very specific philosophical ideological package that Moore is referring to.
But this package is really how Moore describes us as opposed to them, us good, them bad. And so I
would argue that monotheism has always been an identity marker, a way to distinguish the good
guys from the bad guys. And so when we didn't get rid of that identity marker, when we started
thinking about it more objectively, more scientifically, we just adopted it and then tried
to kind of systematize our understanding of it. It was Webster. Webster is I think 1828 Dictionary,
which is the first to actually define it just as a reference to belief in a single deity.
And I argue that that is the etymological fallacy, that that's not how anybody really used the word.
But these days, people who use that term as a value judgment and as an identity marker will
appeal to whatever conceptualization serves their particular needs. So if they want to argue that
Mormons are not monotheists, they're going to appeal to the the etymological fallacy side of
things and say, well, you don't believe in only one God. And it's like, well, you don't either.
Because, you know, the Bible references all kinds of different gods. So within Judaism,
I argue that monotheism has no analytical utility as a framework for looking at any
part of the Bible, Hebrew Bible or New Testament. And I am organizing a conference that's going to
take place at Brown University next May. In fact, what's today, the six, it'll be a year from today
that we will hold this conference called the meanings and ends of monotheism. And it will
basically be a conference where we've gathered, I think 11 scholars who are going to argue from
within the Hebrew Bible from within the New Testament and from within early Judaism and
early Christianity that monotheism is not an adequate framework. And so from the position
that I take, I would say that you don't have monotheism within Judaism, really until you have
the medieval Jewish philosophers developing a more systematic idea about the heavens. Because
even within rabbinic literature, you have references to other gods. Even within some
early Christian literature, you have references to other gods. Christianity adopts a philosophizing
approach a lot sooner than Judaism does. And so I think you could probably argue that they're
starting to bleed into what we might get away with calling monotheism in late antiquity into
the medieval period. But I would say Judaism probably takes a little bit longer. But full
fledged monotheism, I would say, only comes about in the 17th century with the invention of the word
monotheism. Wow. So first of all, do you need a 12th member of that scholarly consensus to bring
in the every man's perspective? Because I'm the Judas of the group. And no, but is that going
to be like a public thing? Or is it like you're doing like a council of Nicaea-type thing where
you all get in a room and discuss theological ideas? Or is it like people come and watch?
So it will be held at Brown University. It will be open to the public. We will also be streaming
it. So it will be something that I'll be I'll be promoting it more than any of you are interested
in seeing me promote it come next year. So yeah, you'll know exactly where to find it.
Okay, okay. Cool. And so I got a couple last questions, because we want to stick under two
hours. Two questions I always ask people when they can't well not I have a bunch of deep questions
I ask. This is one of them. If you had a magic genie that you could ask where you were wrong
about something and it would only tell you where you were wrong. What area of your scholarship
do you wish you could have just like a yes no answer on that you just it's like you just feel
you feel like you've got a little bit of a grip but you just wish you just had
something more solid.
I think I think if it's a whole publication, I would say my book. If I could have a thumbs
up or a thumbs down on the book, that would be that would be incredible. But if it's just one
issue, I would really want to know about Ashra, the Israelite goddess, and as the the consort,
the wife of Adonai, I think of the individual issues that I've touched upon. I think that's
the one where I wish the most that I just knew. And unfortunately, we just don't have those data.
Yeah. Okay. And so last question, you're you're a committed member of the earliest church,
of course. And you're you're the script, the script translator supervisor, right?
I was a scripture translation supervisor. Yeah, I don't know what's going on with my
bro. I don't know if I'm going to stroke on it. What's going on? This is this is the deeper.
Yeah. But if you could choose and I'm going to make this a bit harder, you can't choose
you can't choose an Abrahamic or you can't do something in the same like family. Okay.
What is the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in?
Plausibly true religion that that I don't believe in. Yeah. But it's got to be outside
the Abrahamic. You can't you can't be like I'll let you go to Islam but you can't be like
seven day Adventists or something like, you know, because I would say that I would say the Quakers.
I have I have what Krister Stendhal referred to as Holy Envy for the Quakers. But outside of that,
I am I would say I find I am the most fascinated by and I find the most peace in certain brands of
of Hinduism. But I have I have not directly practiced that. So I could be, you know,
that kind of thing where a couple of days in, I'm like, not for me. I don't know.
But from from the folks I have known and from what little I have, I have looked into that,
I have I would say I have a Holy Envy for for that as well, Hinduism and Buddhism.
There's some fascinating things about both of those.
Yeah, I'm actually the same. I've told the story a million times, but yeah,
everyone's gonna hear me say it again. But I was, I think I even sit in the slavery panel.
Anyway, I was drunk, poolside in Bali, listening to the Bhagavad Gita, trying to
evoke myself in the in the culture of Hinduism, because it's Hindu Island. And I I sweat like
it just had there's something about it just spoke to me. It just I was just like, whoa,
it was chapter nine. I remember, you know, it's the it feels like it's something out of like,
Daniel or a psalm. It's like, I am the wood and the fire that consumes that I am the beginning
in the end. I'm like, what is this? And it was really cool. I still get those same feelings when
I read the Bible and things like that as well. I just don't necessarily tap the taps like a truth
claim to those feelings. Yeah, the the Bhagavad Gita was one of the first, like, scriptural texts
that I ever read, which I found pretty fascinating. If I may, there are a couple of questions I see
in the chat that I can answer in really quick succession. Any updates on Dan's translation of
the Bible? Not too much. I'm still working on Genesis, but I've been sharing some some of my
translation with folks in some of the live streams that I do for my Patreon. So if you're
interested in checking out my translation, once I get Genesis done, I'll actually share that
draft with folks who are on the highest tier of my Patreon. So how old is Dan? I turn 43 in July.
So that's an easy one. We're exactly, oh, we're nine years apart, actually. I'm 34 in June. Okay.
Yeah, I think that those were the two ones that I thought I could rattle off answers to real quick.
Yeah, awesome. Well, you know, this has been, I've got so many, and I always think I don't have
enough notes, but it's always, I've always been left with so many notes. I absolutely loved
having you on. It's been, well, thank you. I appreciate your time. I had a great time as well.
Well, everyone, join me because I'll be signing up for this. And if it's during work hours, I'll
have to, I'll have to make sure I'm listening or something. But join me for this course.
Everybody who signs up will get access to the recording the next day, so you don't have to
attend live, particularly if you're like in Australia. Yeah, I think I did one. I think your last one,
I was at work. So I was like, I was listening while I was doing stuff. But it was still great.
And you've got the recording forever. And but it's only $1 if people, you know, broke or whatever
reason. If you want a minimum donation of $1. But of course, if you can afford to
support with more, that's obviously appreciated. But so yeah, join me over there. I'll be there.
I'll be in the class making funny jokes probably in the in the chat. So that'd be great. And
we'll see everyone later. Thanks, everyone, for coming out. I really appreciate it.
Thank you, everybody.
