Whereas we were taught from a very young age, like, you have to cover up because you might
distract someone, you might cause someone to stumble. And I'm like, I'm literally 12.
Like, am I causing this fucking adult man to stumble? And like, looking back, I'm like,
y'all are so creepy. If you can interpret the Bible to say the exact opposite of what it says in,
in plain reading, then why can we not say like, maybe Jesus didn't die on the cross? All of a
sudden you can make up any doctrine you want. Jesus isn't coming back. He didn't come back.
This is so funny to me now. It blew my mind when I learned that Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John did
not write the Gospels. Yeah. Oh my God, my brain split in two. Yeah, they're anonymous. Yeah.
Right. When I heard that, I was like, the pastor decides that like, we're all going to pray over
her dead body to. I didn't know this part of the story. Yeah.
So welcome everyone to the Deep Drinks podcast. This is a podcast where we drink the drink of the
guest choice and we have deep conversations. So today with me, I have Jessica, also known as
Heathen Queen, who has, Jessica has two degrees, one in economics and the second in political
science. But that's not why she's here today, even though she does use those two things to
embarrass bigots online, as she says. Jessica is an ex-Christian of 20 years who has grown,
who's grown in wild popularity on TikTok and YouTube. And she uses her TikTok and YouTube
to help people who are deconstructing their faith. I was first entertained by the Heathen Queen
from her hot takes on Twitter and her unapologetic attitude. Her bio says, you're probably here from
TikTok. I'm smart, petty and not sorry. And she, and in the pre, in the pre, when we were talking
before, she said that she's starting to get a reputation of the lead pipe of accountability.
So I love that so much. However, what you might not know about the Heathen Queen is she's also
a lovely person. Well, it appears she volunteers in prisons or has volunteers in prisons,
rehabilitates animals, little doggos, and I'm sure there's might be other animals as well,
feeds the homeless and supports progressive charities. So welcome the Heathen Queen.
Hello, thank you for that introduction. That was, I, you know, tearing up. If I had tears,
no, if I had a soul, it would be warmth right now. Exactly. There was a heart there. No,
I think people often, if they only encounter me in certain spaces, for instance, Twitter,
they probably think I'm awful. But in reality, I just don't tolerate bullshit. But in my personal
life, like, most people would describe me as a pretty kind person who like tries to help people.
I know it's hard to believe, but it's weird. It's weird. It's kind of like, as a Heathen,
you're doing kind of like what Jesus said to do, like helping people and, you know,
wanting for people to have money and, you know, imagine that helping in prisons and stuff.
Goddamn liberals. Damn liberals. And we're drinking a delicious, my wife is so happy you chose this
one, the botanist Eila Dry Gin. She was recently on a business trip, and she was drinking this
all week, apparently, because it's one of her favorite gins. Here's your wife. I feel like we'll
get along well. Yeah, she loves her gin. So I'm going to pour myself glass. You've got yourself
a glass and we have some with ginger ale and some tonic. We're keeping it casual today.
And yeah, that's this is what we're doing. Thanks for having me. Yeah, no worries.
So I did want to first mention, talk about your story, like what what it was like.
Did you explain a little bit about like your story in Christianity to like how you kind of
came to question your faith? And then yeah, it's a bit of a bit of a
it's it's all over your TikTok, but maybe you could we have like a concise like version here.
Yeah, it's quite a ride, as most things are with me. So growing up, probably until I was about
six or seven, really wasn't involved in the church. Yeah, not at all. And then at some point,
to be honest, the like exact details are a little bit sketch because I was six or seven.
But my mom and dad got saved. They went to they went to a play called Heaven's Gates and Hell's
Flames. Now, if you it's a nightmare, actually, this nightmare fuel, and they got the like VHS
because I'm old, and they would watch it all the time. Like this, as an adult, I'm like,
what? Because the entire play was just like the end of people's lives, right? So it'd be like a
family driving in a car, a car crash death. And then they like, go before like throne of judgment.
And then it's like, if they're Christians, God welcomes them in. And if they're not Christians,
then the devil comes like rearing out and like drags them kicking screaming. That's the whole
play just like over and over and over again, right? Really uplifting stuff. I definitely never talk
about it in therapy. So it's a nice, it was that nice, the nineties vibe of Christianity,
but it was very hellfire and brimstone, right? Exactly. Like left behind was hot. Yeah. Not
biblical at all. Yeah. It effectively was like the gospel of Tim Lehi. So that's, that was there.
They got saved at an altar call there. And pretty much from that day on, my life changed.
Started going to church all the time. We had Bible study in our house. And the brand of Christianity
that I grew up in was extremely charismatic. So speaking in tongues, doing like anointing with
oil. Exactly. That's the best. That's the best. That's the best type of Christianity. Dude, that
is literally witchcraft. But anyway, that was the one I was part of. Me too. Me too. But I'm just
saying as an adult, I'm like, you know, I kind of wish I was Catholic, actually, to be honest,
because they have like way cooler, like rituals, rituals and stuff. Like it's like, you know,
cool with smoking stuff and incense and candles and big ulcers. I know. It's cool.
I like, and like, I know they're not actually incantations, but like repeated prayers that
feels like incantations to me. So yeah, as time went on, we got more involved. So, you know,
we started, like I said, having the Bible study in our house. And then I ended up in a very
fundamentalist Christian school. And then I was in youth group, and then just part of everything,
right? We would, I felt like I was always there, especially because my school was at the church.
So I literally lived there. The problem was that because I was a part of this very
charismatic group, everybody was feeling things and having these experiences. And I simply was
not, for whatever reason, I just, I never spoke in tongues. I didn't feel this like emotional
connection with God. And it was really hard for me because I was taught that if you,
if you actually have a relationship with God, then you're going to have these manifestations
of the spirit. And I just didn't. And also, I've always sort of had the brain that I have now.
And so I had lots of questions. And to a degree, they would be answered, but
only to a degree. That's, that was the problem. At a certain point, it became like you just have
to have faith. And I just couldn't get everything to quite match up. But the thing about at least
the brand of Christianity that I was a part of is that they very much gaslight you. So if you
don't have these experiences, it's either because God's testing you, or you don't have enough faith,
or your emotions actually don't matter, and you just need to trust and believe. So it's always you
are the problem. It's never, obviously, God can't possibly be the problem. So like you are the problem.
And so you're constantly trying to adjust the things that you do so that you'll have this
experience. And then you're constantly feeling like you're failing, at least I was. The other thing
was that like, I grew up in a pretty traumatic household, for lack of a better term. My mom was
a alcoholic for my entire life. And my stepdad, so sorry, my stepdad is also the dad that I pretty
much grew up with from the time I was five. So from here on out, I'll probably just say my dad.
He very much had anger issues, and was fairly verbally abusive to me as a child. And so like,
there was also physical abuse, like there was a lot going on. And so it was very hard for me to then
not be traumatized, right? And so I started having certain symptoms of OCD, or depression, or any of
these things, because I had a pretty rough life at a young age. And I was told that these things
were me being under attack from the devil, right? Because everything was in attack. And so it got
quite challenging, because what now as an adult, I realized was this like OCD compulsion to confess
every wrong thing I had ever done, because Christianity, right? But then also, I felt this
compulsion to then tell my parents every bad thing I had ever done, because you have that association
between God and your parents, and I had OCD. Like, that was the thing. I was eventually
diagnosed. It just took so many years before someone said like, you have OCD.
I just just just to stop you there, that please my mind, because like that's essentially what I
discovered in a psychologist's office, that what I thought was the voice of God was just an OCD
tick. That like my whole life, I like what I thought was God telling me to do something was
actually like a OCD like sensation that I was having. And I had that same issue with confessing,
where even in like, sometimes when my OCD got so bad, I would confess all sorts of ridiculous
behavior. Like, like, I would have to tell my wife, I have to tell you, I found this person
attractive. And she's like, why are you telling me like, it's okay. What's wrong with you?
And just stuff like that. And I was like, and I'm pacing around like having a panic attack
about telling my wife that I found someone attractive or something, or doing this heaps of
stuff. And it's horrible, like it's, it's, it's crushing. So yeah, I can totally relate. Wow,
I didn't know that that you, yeah. Anyway, keep going. That's amazing. I'm sorry you experienced
that as well. Like, I'm always like, it's a weird thing where I'm like, Oh my God, like,
I'm so glad somebody else can relate. And I'm not crazy. But then like, also, I'm like, I'm so sorry
that you can relate. That's awful. Yeah. So I did all the things, right, went on mission strips
when I was younger, because I was a white savior. And I was going to go paint a church in Mexico
or something like I don't really understand fully what the hell I was doing. But I thought I was
doing God's work. So, so eventually, you know, I grew up. And when I was 21, when I was 21,
I hadn't really been going to church regularly, but I still held these beliefs about heaven and
hell and God and whatever. And I just sort of felt like I still believe these things. I'm just sort
of not doing what I'm supposed to be doing right now. And when I was 21, my partner at the time
committed suicide. And it was, as you can imagine, an incredibly dark time in my life. I mean,
I think it's impossible that it wouldn't be. And it was compounded by a number of other things,
like the fact that his friends blamed me and then his family wouldn't talk to me. And, you know,
looking back, I understand when people are in deep grief, they do things that just they don't
make sense. People need a scapegoat. I get it. But at the time I was 21, and I had had a pretty
traumatizing life, and I hadn't had any therapy. And then this happened. And my parents were both
still very Christian. And so for them, their sort of solution was that I needed to really
lean into God, you know, like seek God with all your heart. And so
I had always been told that when you're at your lowest, your darkest, your most broken,
that like that's where God would meet you. Again, looking back, that is incredibly abusive,
right, to think that like God's going to meet you when you're at your absolute most broken,
because that's when you're able to receive him. It is just not good. And so after this happened,
I decided, you know what I'm going to do? I am going to go to YWAM, Youth with a Mission,
because if I leave my life here and go over there and do God stuff, then that's like a sacrifice,
right, in my darkest time. So certainly, God will meet with me. That was like my desperate
desire was to have this connection with God. And so I didn't have the desire, but I went to YWAM.
Yeah. So did you, at this point, like you hadn't had an experience with God,
but did you feel like feelings of love or peace or anything? Or was it just...
It was just fear. It was just, oh, it's fear, okay.
Fear-based, yeah. So to be fair, when I was a Christian, I had one experience that I can think
of that I, to this day, I can't really explain, but I'm not too worried about it. So if you
are familiar with being like slain in the spirit, one time I was prayed over, and I think I just
passed out if I'm being honest, and I woke, I think I maybe just had a panic attack. I woke up
sort of passed out on the, I don't know, by the altar of the church, and everybody around
me was having the same thing happen. To be honest, I still don't know what that was,
but I also know enough about sort of general psychology that I don't think it was like
God. I remember touching like coming off stage one time after I did a big,
like, preach about the power of God, and there was an altar call, and I ran up to this youth,
this young guy, I was a youth pastor, and I grabbed him by the face like this,
like just grabbed him, and he just fell over. He like flew back, and I'm just like,
I've got the power! No, I wasn't like that. I continued on praying for people and stuff,
but yeah, it's things like that that's hard to kind of explain. Absolutely. And I think sometimes,
like you said, well, you mentioned it, but I always say sometimes I can't explain is the best
answer. Right, exactly. Yeah, it's like, I don't know what happened, but also just because I don't
know doesn't mean it was God. Because there are other religions that have some pretty crazy stuff
happen, and you can't think, because if we say, therefore, truth, whatever, why can't they do
the same for their God? Are you covering up the light? I'm trying to block the light up,
and it's just not working. Sorry. It looks cool. It looks like you've got like a cool little halo
effect around you. Yeah, I know. You all thought I was the devil, but as it turns out, you're the
heaving queen. It looks like crowns of your, yeah. You can all light a candle in my honor.
So, yeah, so really, what was driving me ultimately was fear. Now, if you are a product of,
you know, 90s, early 2000s evangelicalism, then you know exactly what I'm talking about.
Because largely it's predicated on this idea that Jesus is coming back pronto,
like he's going to be here tomorrow. My parents legitimately told me when I was growing up,
that Jesus would be coming back in my lifetime. And not only that, it was going to be this,
like there was going to be a tribulation, and I was probably going to be tortured and persecuted
and probably martyred for Christ. And I was like, rather not. But then, of course, it was like,
well, if you don't do that, you're going to hell. Sounds like a good option.
Have a little bit of torture now and get rid of it or get tortured for eternity.
I know. Someone just chewed me and just like, we just make this quick. And then I was like,
well, if God is really forgiving, then would he not forgive me if I was scared? I don't know,
Rick Canton. It's such such such abusive just theology indoctrination. It's awful.
Just sorry to keep interjecting. No, please. You also mentioned you grew up in a house with a little
like mental health issues around it, where you were told there were demonic cameras being put
in the house and stuff. And so like, I could, I could imagine, maybe you could quickly tell that,
because I can imagine that you're growing up in this situation where you're thinking that
demonic cameras are being installed because you're told this and they're watching you get changed.
And so you're changing in the corner as a little six year old girl. Like that's that's
a trip. Yeah. Yeah, well, we can talk about some of the other stuff, even when I got older,
like not demonic stuff, but just the way that, well, so let me start with this. Yes. So this story,
I was six years old. And I remember my mom telling me at some point, like, just, you need to be aware
that someone's like installed cameras in our house without our knowledge. And I'm like, well, then
how do we like know? But okay. Like, she she had this idea that there's cameras in the house,
she's telling me and they're like, they can see you changing and I'm sick. So I'm like, who is they,
but whatever. So I'm scared. So she's like, you need to make sure you like change sort of
hiding and like, okay. So, so I did. And then I remember there was this whole thing where like
at one point my dad, or my uncle came over and with my dad, they were like looking around for
these cameras. And so in my mind, I thought, Oh, my mom was right, there must be cameras somewhere
if my dad's looking for them. And when I came to sort of realize later was that my mom has largely,
and for a long time struggled with mental illness of some sort. And that's compounded by alcoholism.
I mean, those two things are often co-orbit. And I mean, later on in life, she would also come to
start having seizures. And when you I don't know how familiar people are, but if you are an alcoholic
who drinks like binge drinks, you hit a state where you really you like almost hallucinate,
like you don't, it's not reality anymore, like something else is happening. So there's lots
of times when my mom would be telling me something, and I wasn't old enough yet to understand what
was happening. And so I would think it was true. I mean, I remember one time I was on like a little
weekend trip with one of my friends, and she called and told me that like, that we had a new
car that like the angels had given us and she could see the angels and like this whole thing.
And I'm on the phone like, I'm going to go ride this scooter. So like, I'll call you later. Like
I like a cool on my dad on the phone. I'm like, are there angels outside with a new car?
So yes, there's also all of this going on, right? And so when you're a kid who's looking to your
parents to sort of describe reality, and then you get your mom who's telling you that in her
reality, she can see angels and all of these things, you it's it's very
disjointed, maybe for lack of a better term, like it's very hard to then sort of define your own
reality because you're like, well, if she sees it and I don't see it, is there something wrong with
me? Like, or is it really there? And I just don't see it because I'm not gifted in this way, right?
Because there was also this idea that there's all these spiritual gifts and some people can
see things in the other realm. And it's just it's just very, I'm not even sure what the right word
is, but it ultimately ends up being very confusing, I guess, to be simplistic.
To grow up in that in that environment, it's no wonder that you
you know, you you're in situations where you're like, you know, later on, you're like, I don't
know, I'm not feeling what everyone else is feeling. And then you're questioning, yeah.
Yeah, it's, it's very odd. And then I grew up also to be a very analytical person. And so
I overthink everything, I intellectualize everything sometimes to a fault. And when I
didn't know that about myself, it just felt like I was a problem, because I was supposed to have faith,
and I was supposed to believe. And instead, I was just questioning, questioning, questioning,
questioning, which I know the church says like, yeah, we are totally okay with questions.
But in reality, they're only okay with some questions. And there's a limit to
to the answers they can give you. And they also give you material that is incredibly biased,
right? So, I mean, I've talked about it on several platforms. I was given the case for
Christ as the sort of like irrefutable proof that Jesus had existed and rose from the dead.
That book is garbage. Like, it's absolute garbage from start to finish. It's awful. But
that's what they give you. And because you're already told what you're supposed to think,
when you read it, you're like, Oh, my God, this confirms everything. Like, so yeah.
Yeah, it's like that. I think you did a TikTok where someone was like, Oh, the Bible's proof,
because like, have you not read all these scriptures? And then you like pulled out a
extension cord and plugged it into itself. Why is it just turning on? It's interesting, for sure.
So, you went to YWAM to try and like have this, like, you're like, okay, I'm going to,
I'm going to step out in faith. I want to meet God, you know, and I forgot about that term. Yeah.
Yeah, step out in faith. Yeah. And how was, how was YWAM?
Awful. I, it was awful. God. I went, so the way YWAM works, at least the one I went to, is you go
for, I think it's like two months to sort of like a base, and you do this like mini Bible school
thing. And so the place I went was Switzerland, which I thought would be like pretty cool.
And it was this little town called Vila, but this town, like town is a generous word. There was like
the base, which was sort of like this little, I don't even know what to call it, not a compound,
because it's just like one building, but it has a bunch of rooms, obviously, in like a kitchen and
all this stuff. And then there's like one road. And at the end of this road, there's a little chapel
and a post office. Exactly. And then there's like some farms around. So we had literally fresh milk,
because you would just go get it from the little farm. It was something. Now, we could walk to the
train station and you could take the train into like bigger towns, which we did from time to time.
But where we lived was effectively the middle of nowhere. Now, for those of you that don't know,
I live in the Bay Area in California, I always have. It is incredibly busy, incredibly popular.
It's a tech hub. Like, I could go outside my door and throw a rock and hit like 10 different restaurants.
Like it's one of those things where it's just like, I'm just it, it sounds very
religion, it probably is. It's just I'm so used to having access to so many things.
And when I got there, even if there hadn't been access to things, that's one thing to sort of
reckon with. Everybody that was a part of my like YWAM school, except for maybe one person,
was all like, they were all from like the Midwest. No shade to the Midwest, but they were all from
the Midwest. They had all been like home schooled for most of their lives. They had all grown up
in the church, and they were like very conservative. I showed up with tattoos and like multicolored
hair. And like, that is all to say that I just didn't quite fit in.
The heath and princess.
Exactly. She wasn't quite fully formed yet. She didn't have the sort of like audacity.
But I got there and I was just like, and considering my boyfriend had just killed
himself, like, I'd had a lot more life, not just because of that, but also because of that,
I had had a lot more life experience than these people. And so we have these leaders
in our like small groups. And like the worst thing that's ever happened to them is like
their grandma died, you know, something like that. I get it. That that sucks. There's no
like judgment there. But when you come to them and you're trying to like be vulnerable and
like emotionally grow when you're like, well, actually, like my boyfriend just shot himself,
my mom's an alcoholic, like my parents have been abusive, like just like on and on with all of
this stuff. Like they have no capacity for that. They don't know how to deal with that. And of
course they don't, right? Like, of course they don't. But it was a very who isolating experience
because I was trying to deal with very complex grief in a situation where nobody was
capable of offering adequate support or like healing methods or anything. And I don't blame
them for that. They, there's no way they could have had that. But it was just a very weird
experience to be there. And to feel like I was with all of these people that just had never
really, it was hard to relate. I'll put it that way. And while I was there, my grandmother died.
My grandmother died. So it was like quite the, just quite the whirlwind.
Now it's like a fun little aside. When I did my mission trip with YWAM, I went to Ireland.
And I love Ireland. I would go back right now, like I would get off this interview and go there.
Now, if I could, I love it so, so much there. So that was awesome. But I didn't love it because
of the mission trip, to be honest. I wasn't trying to like minister to people. I just loved it because
it was awesome. But I ended up coming home early because I was like, this sucks.
I just, yeah, it was just not a great experience. So anyway, sorry, I have talked way too long about
that. When I got home, I decided I really want to go back to school. I know this now. So ultimately,
I applied to school, I got in, and I went back to college when I was 23. And I went to a fairly
prestigious, small, all women's liberal arts college. And it started to become hard for me to
reconcile this idea that all of these people that I was meeting, right, from different walks of life
that had much different life experience, different gender identities, different sexual orientations,
all of these different things that were lovely, excellent people trying to make the world a better
place. I could not reconcile this idea that all of these people were going to burn in hell forever
because of how they were born. I just couldn't, I couldn't make it make sense in my mind.
And on top of that, because I had spent so much time just not having these emotions or feelings
or experiences in the church, I started to think like, okay, maybe I'm just not going to have these
feelings. Like maybe that's just not in the cards for me. So I set out to not prove the Bible, but
I thought like, if I can document from other sources that these sort of historical events
actually happened, like throw out all of the miraculous stuff, there's no way to prove that.
Just try to prove that these events actually happened. Because if they happen, there should be
some kind of evidence for them, right? Archaeological, I mean, that's the main one I was
looking for, but in primary sources, secondary sources, like there should be all of these sort
of supporting things. And as I started to delve into it, I was floored, which sounds silly now
because of how much I know. But at the time, I was absolutely floored at the fact that there
isn't really a lot of evidence for this. And like, sometimes there's not at all, like you have to
really do some mental gymnastics to build a case for some of this stuff. Yeah, or there's even
evidence, there's like, there's like evidence to the contrary, like it actually pulls apart. Yeah.
Yeah. And so if I'm being honest, one of the things that blew my mind,
this is so funny to me now, it blew my mind when I learned that Matthew, Mark, Luke,
and John did not write the Gospels. Yeah. Oh my God, my brain split in two.
Yeah, they're anonymous. Yeah. Right. When I heard that, I was like,
someone call the police. No, because and Mark doesn't include the virgin Mark, the earliest
Gospel written 40 years after the fact doesn't include the virgin birth. And the original
ending does not include the disciples encounter with the resurrected Jesus. It's insane.
It's bonkers. And the thing is, is like,
I have been taught growing up that like, of course, like these four Gospels are
four independent historical accounts written by eyewitnesses. So how is it possible
that four independent sources could write such similar stories and be eyewitnesses and not be
true? And I was like, well, I mean, yeah, I mean, that makes sense. So when I got to the point where
it was like, these were anonymous, they borrowed from each other. And they weren't even written
until at least like 30 or 40 years after the fact by people that never met Jesus.
I was, I feel like I was, I went through like a period of anger, because I was like,
people just know this, and they're not telling anyone. And you never left that period of anger.
That's true. I know, but it was like, either y'all don't know, like people pastors,
y'all don't know, and you haven't bothered to even try to find out, or you do know
Andrew Lyme. Like, yeah, it's one or the other. And neither one of those sits really well with me.
Yeah, I actually, I, our stories are so similar. We seem to have OCD. I had an alcoholic parent
as well. It was, and he hallucinated as well. It was, you know, so we actually have a lot in
common. But one of the things we also had in common is, I wrote this document called the
objective truth of origins. When I first was trying to question my faith, not question my faith,
I was trying to, what I was trying to do is I was trying to look at all the evidence for evolution
and all the evidence for creationism and compare notes. And my, my, what I thought I was going to
end up with at the end was all the reasons why evolution, why people believe in evolution.
But then I, but I knew why they believe, but I could prove that it was wrong.
But, but I also realized that, for me, honesty is such an important thing. And for me, I realized
that for me to investigate this, honestly, I had to actually remove as much bias as possible.
And whenever, and, and I actually had to look at the evidence as if I didn't know the conclusion,
as if I didn't know that evolution was a lie. I had to look at it, look at the evidence,
take off my Christian perspective, my, everything is much,
confirmation bias that you were trying to look for information that agreed with you.
Oh, I had to remove it all. And I would, and I would, and I would mentally take it off. Like,
okay, I'm going to look at this information now, I'd read some papers, and then I'll put it back
on at the end. And when I first started doing that, I started noticing these little cracks that I
wouldn't normally have noticed. And then the more and more I dug into it, the more and more the
cracks got bigger and bigger and bigger until eventually I'm standing in this giant canyon
going, how did I not see this huge problem? And then the most heartbreaking thing for me
is I would go to other Christians and I'm like, some of my best friends, people went to ministry
college with it. And I was like, Hey, I need to talk to you about this. I found this thing.
And I, what I discovered was one, they didn't care whether or not something was true or not.
Two, they didn't. Yeah, you're right, right?
It's just so wild to me. Like, how do you not care if it's true?
Yeah, they didn't care if it was true or not. And then secondly, if they did want to like,
have a conversation with them, but they were incredibly dishonest, like they would,
they would blatantly lie or they would misrepresent information. Or we have this one pastor
who was trying to argue against same sex marriage plebiscite that was happening in Australia,
this vote that Australia was doing to allow same sex marriage. And we will question him,
him while I was leaving my faith at the time, questioning him about stuff. And he was quote,
the gay manifesto. What's the gay manifesto you may ask? It's a satirical piece from the 80s,
like as if the gay people had, and he would quote it and we would bring it up like, Hey,
this is a satirical piece. This isn't satire. This is like, this is satire. This isn't a real thing.
There is no, there is no gay committee that decides what all gay people need to think. Oh my
and then he would read it and then later on in further arguments, still quote it.
What a nightmare.
Two fucks about reality and it really, really bothered me. And I don't understand this.
Yeah. And this is at the point of the interview when the alcohol is obviously taking effect.
I've started to rant.
No, please. I feel like I dominated the first part of the interview. It's just
no, no, no, no. It is yours. It is about your story, but we just have so much, so much.
So relevant to what you should say. And it's just mind blowing. I just don't understand how people
can, like Christians can blatantly misrepresent things or lie or not be interested in the truth
at least, not be interested in like observing something with as little bias as possible.
And I can see why. And this is the problem I have with apologetics. And first of all,
I think there are some apologetic apologists who I think I point Christians all the time to Michael
Jones. I think Michael Jones is a great guy. I think he's, I think he's, he's as honest as a
Christian as you, as a, as a Christian apologist you can be. I really like Michael Jones.
However, just as a heads up, we're preparing a video. Oh, together? Michael Jones. Me, Josh,
I was like, me and a couple of other scholars. So. Oh, I don't, I don't agree with his conclusions,
but I think that he's as honest as you can, like I love, I love his attitude and I love
how rigorous he is. And he seems to be as most, the most, as honest as you can be to be in a
Christian apologist. However, the entire field, you seem to disagree, but the entire field.
You don't have to talk about it. That's all right. The entire field of apologetics,
to me, is an ad hoc thing. Like no one comes to their faith because they heard good reasons.
They grew up in their faith. They had a spiritual experience. They're the reasons people believe,
but not because of like, because actually the sources of Matthew, Mark, Luke and John
could be dated to earlier. If we did X, like that's not why people believe. So my,
okay, everybody knows this. If you followed me for more than two seconds, I am incredibly hard
on apologists. And often I just give up and make fun of them. Now, like that's, I know that's not
for everyone. You can, you can like it or not. That's fine. The reason that I'm this way is because
I have done the research and I have sat with that incredible discomfort of wanting to believe
something and just having the evidence in your face telling you that you're wrong.
And it's not comfortable. It sucks because you have to then shift your entire worldview.
Because if that isn't right, then what else do you think you know that isn't right? Right. And so
it's a very tumultuous, painful sort of unmooring process because you have this like anchored
worldview. And then as soon as you pull the thread, you're like, Oh, if that's not true,
and that's like, what do I actually know about the world around me? What do I actually know about
what I'm doing, my purpose, who I am, what's the point of life, right? Like all of these things.
So when apologists, whoever they are, start doing these like gold level mental gymnastics
to try and then prove something like you're just not being honest. And I know you're not
being honest because I've done this research. Like I've seen the research, right? So I mean,
like, for instance, I think you had Josh on a couple of weeks ago. He's written this book,
the atheist handbook to the Old Testament, you know, plug the second one's coming out soon.
It lays out evidence that we have for certain events or that we don't have. And it doesn't do so
in a way that is particularly biased, right? At least it doesn't strike me as that way. I'm a
fairly good researcher. Like I've been the, okay, sorry, that's a little jumbled. The thing is,
it's very balanced. I've read the first one. I just think it's the first one. The name actually
annoys me a little bit because it could be for anyone because it's a good marketing ploy to call
the atheist handbook out to the Old Testament, but really it's not for atheists. It makes it so that
people might not want to pick it up because they're like, I feel like a lot of people,
sorry, Josh, love you. The name, like if you see atheist, a lot of Christians are like,
uh, that's biased. I'm not going to do that. But in reality, like the difference I think between,
I don't want to say me, but like unbeliever or atheist or agnostic or whatever you want to call it,
and a believer that's doing research, I can see two points of archaeological evidence that might
look like they contradict each other and just like be okay with not knowing, right? Like I'm like,
I don't know. Like though they look contradictory, I'm not really sure what that means.
Apologists see those two points and just toss one out because it doesn't work for them.
That to me is incredibly dishonest because apologists have to have a specific answer.
They have their answer before they approach the evidence. Yeah, exactly. They need it to say a
certain thing. And that is dishonest. But what I would say is there are levels and levels to this.
There are the apologists who will blatantly misrepresent data to make a point that they already
have. Well, what I like about Michael Jones from Inspiring Philosophy is he tweaks his doctrine
a lot to fit the evidence. So he doesn't believe in, he believes in evolution. He believes in,
like he's not a young, you know, the creationist. And so that's what I do like about him. So
I'm happy for you. No, no, it's fine. Yeah, no, no, no, like there are certainly better apologists.
I will say that. Like there are certainly better apologists. Like there are some where I'm like,
don't ever talk to me. Just because the stuff they're saying, it's like,
how do I phrase this? Apologetics very much is for people that already believe
and they make it pseudo-intellectual enough that Christians don't feel like they need to
investigate any further, right? Oh, yeah, I agree with you. Like the entire premise is
dishonest in my opinion. Totally. And I, so I have to say this, this like idea of it being
pseudo-intellectual enough so that Christians won't do their own sort of investigation,
somebody told me that and I genuinely cannot remember who it is. So if you're watching this,
I know you said it. I just can't remember who it was. I think it was somebody on Twitter, but
I really thought that was a great way of putting it because it very much is that, right? When you
do apologetics, nobody outside of the atheist or agnostic community is going to be fact-checking
you. If I'm a Christian and I'm tuning in to whatever apologetics channel, I'm tuning in
because I want them to tell me something that confirms what I already believe. And they're
going to tell me that most of the time because we believe the same thing. This is also why I never
feel compelled or even a desire to debate with apologists because why? They have no interest
in learning. They have a point they're trying to prove and they're going to try to prove that point
in any way they can. And oftentimes, almost always, it's intellectually dishonest.
And so that's why like, sorry, I know we've gotten a little off topic here, but people will ask
why don't you debate? And I'm like, why would I debate with someone that I know for a fact is
not interested in actually hearing anything I say?
There is a, just on a random aside on that, is there are a few, I haven't done debates yet,
but when I do get invited to finally debate someone, which I'd love to do, there are different
categories I put them in. There are people I'd like to have discussions with because I know that
we're both in good faith and we can arrive at conclusions by hashing things out. And then
there are other people like, say, if I ever got the chance to devote Mr. Hovind, it would just be
to expose the slinnest of his, like it would just be a giant troll, essentially, because
I think he's the most bad faith person probably on the internet.
And, you know, I have my wife, not my wife, sorry, my mother was in the abusive relationship.
He's had some, some... Sorry, that's not funny. Sorry. I was laughing at the wife. Sorry.
Yeah. Yeah. My, my, yeah, my mother was in some abusive relationships. And so when he had some,
he's had some, he's going through a trial at the moment to, you know, because he body-slamed
his wife apparently is the allegation. So, so yeah, so like, I would have no problem like
bringing him on and just holding his feet to the fire and until he rage quit the conversation.
And that would just be entertaining and funny for me. And so, so yeah, when it comes to, um,
engaging the people, for me, everybody has different, yeah, everybody has a different
whatever. Like how do you want to embarrass big, how do you want to embarrass bigots when
someone starts telling me that I'm going to hell or whatever? I just like to embarrass them. In fact,
I go, I'll link it in the doobly-doo. I do have a conversation with some Christian, Christian mods
on a discord, which was a really fun conversation, um, where she told me I was going to hell and
stuff. And that was, uh, that was great. That was a spicy conversation. Anyway, continue.
I do want to say that I think like everybody has different approaches and I will never tell
someone that like, just because I don't care about debates, that they shouldn't care about debates,
because like we all enjoy different things. We all learn in different ways. Like I, for one, just
don't want to. So that's where I like begin and end the conversation. But I think for a lot of people,
they're really useful and interesting. People like them. Um, I mean, I, I know we just talked
about it, but like even Josh, right? Like he debates slavery day in and day out slavery is
probably the least interesting thing in the entire Bible to me. Like I know people can disagree with
me, whatever. Like the Bible clearly endorses slavery. The only reason that people argue that
it doesn't is because they're committed a priori to this doctrine of anerency and they need it to
be morally just. But like if you have two brain cells rubbing together, you can see that it endorses
slavery. Yeah. So what's, what's also interesting is they're using a moral system outside of the
Bible to conclude that that slavery is wrong, but then trying to find a way to make it not so bad.
It's like, it's like you're demolishing the whole point of objective morality. Yeah.
Yeah. And they'll be like, well, like slaves had Sunday off.
Yeah. Like, okay, bitch, like so did the donkeys. Like I don't know what you, like I don't know what,
like, okay, anyway, sorry, this is a whole other topic. But yeah, did you, so your deconversion
experience, was it like an ever an aha moment or was it? No. So for me, I, I did this thing,
like I said, where I wanted to like try to prove the Bible. And so it definitely happened slowly
because you researched different things, right? So I think I started off with some like very popular
level kind of like Bart Ehrman books, which is still what I kind of recommend to anybody in
the beginning stages, because it's super readable, very accessible. And like, that's what people
need. Usually they need something that they can get through and understand not something that's
necessarily super high level and cerebral and that takes you a while to get through. So after I
read through some of his books, I think it was like misquoting Jesus, Jesus interrupted,
heaven and hell, like all of those books that might have been later. Anyway,
then I would go to the bibliographies and start looking at some of the more scholarly sources
that were cited. And so it was a slow deconstruction, one, because you start researching
sort of one event at a time or one topic at a time. And once you start pulling that thread,
of course, you start sort of going in a number of directions. But then also, even after you're
like, okay, this isn't really dependable, the Bible isn't really dependable historically.
It doesn't change the fact that you have these very sort of long held, long standing,
indoctrinated beliefs or fears or whatever you want to call them. And so even though I was like,
the Bible isn't really historically sound, that doesn't change the fact that I have this deep
seated fear of hell, for instance, or anything really, I think for me, it was primarily hell,
because it's like, if I make a mistake, then I'm fucked for literally eternity. And so
those things, or things like the rapture, because that was something that was huge for me growing up,
those fears took longer to sort of deconstruct, because they're not rational. They're not
something you can say like, okay, well, a didn't happen. Therefore, B, it's more along the lines of
like, this was something that was drilled into me as a child. It's fear based, and it's clear
indoctrination. So that just takes a lot more time and energy to kind of come out of. And it's
not something that you can just like read a book. And all of a sudden, it's better, right? So in some
ways, well, no, not in some ways, it certainly wasn't overnight. I think my biggest aha moment
were a couple parts, the Gospels not being written by eyewitnesses. Also, when I started
studying Revelation, and found out the sort of historical context, and the fact that like,
none of this is about the future, it was all like the far future, it was all very much about
first century Rome. And like reading stuff, it made perfect sense. Like I'm reading about like
666, it's Gematria for Caesar Nero, right? Like, okay, or like the city on separate the
Hore of Babylon, the city on seven hills, like that's Rome, everybody would have known it then.
Like, those things were mind blowing to me, because it had been so beat into my head for
at this point, decades, that the mark of the beast was going to be some like tattoo on my
forehead, or some weird shit or like on my hand, and I wouldn't be able to like buy food without it.
Or like the Antichrist was going to be, yeah, I don't know, some really likeable politician from
the East. Like, why, why do you? Yeah, exactly. Or Obama. I remember. Oh, my God, my parents thought
Obama was the Antichrist. And I was like, no, no, no, he's just black. That's all. He's just black.
Well, I heard that I heard that I heard that it wasn't he wasn't fully he wasn't his skin wasn't
so dark. So it could be applicable to everyone or something. I remember hearing all these these
stupid takes, but it's just racism. The thing. Yeah, exactly. The thing that gets me about
about the whole revelation things is it's so clear, like when you read it in its context or
whatever. And it's not it's only not clear if you believe that Jesus is coming back. But the thing is
Jesus isn't coming back. Jesus didn't come back. He was supposed to come back in his disciples
lifetime. It's as clear as day. And if you can interpret the Bible, when Jesus says, I tell
you the truth, people standing here will not taste death until all these things happen. Or you will
see the Son of Man coming on the clouds and I tell you the truth, you know, you won't taste death.
This generation should not pass. If you can interpret the Bible to say the exact opposite
of what it says in in plain reading, then why can we not say like, maybe Jesus didn't die on the cross.
Maybe he just, you know, maybe he didn't rise from the dead. Maybe like all of a sudden you
can make up any doctrine you want. Jesus isn't coming back. He didn't come back. Yeah. Well,
thanks for coming to my Theodore chat. Bye.
Bye. No. The thing is, is like, people, God, God, um, sorry, Jesus was never
saying or predicted to come three times, right? So the initial time when he comes, he dies on the
cross, the resurrection, when he comes back to life, and then all of a sudden he comes back some
random time in the future. Now it doesn't say three times anywhere, but beyond that, for the first
1800 years of church history, nobody had a concept of the rapture. It wasn't until 1860,
when some Yahoo named John Nelson Darby, um, like reinterpreted first Thessalonians to
decide that like, oh, actually what this means is that we're going to be caught up in the clouds
and he's going to take us off the heaven. Now on its face, that sounds, I mean, still bizarre,
but like, okay. But then when you think about it, like this verse and also Paul's cosmology is
fundamentally flawed because the way he is thinking about things and talking about things is very
much like there's three levels. There's this flat earthly plane that we're on below us under our feet
is whatever version of Shale, Tartarus, Hell, whatever. And up above the clouds is this like
heaven or God, whatever. We all know that's not true, right? Like we've gone up above the clouds.
I do it fairly regularly. No Jesus there, as far as I can tell. And yet we still cling to this
interpretation of being caught up in the clouds as something literal. So like Paul would have
thought that this was literal because his idea, but now we're sort of super imposing our understanding
on top of that and saying like, well, you know, Paul didn't really know it's not really like the
clouds, right? But like when we caught up in the clouds, there's like just our spirit and then we're
going to go to like wherever the fuck. Like we have made everything to fit whatever it is we
need it to mean while stripping away what it actually meant to the people that wrote it.
Beyond us doing that to the New Testament, the New Testament authors did that to the Old Testament.
If you talk to Jewish scholars, you'll see these like Old Testament prophecies and none of them
are about Jesus. Like, come on, please. But you're just forgetting one thing and that is you've just
got to have faith. This is heathen queen. Jessica, you've just got to have faith. Where's my bottle,
Jen? No. You would be surprised at how many people just like, well, maybe you wouldn't, but
I've been hearing this like real hot take recently from people on the internet that like
the entire Old Testament points to Jesus. Oh, it's so embarrassing. Y'all are literally the most
damp paper towels of all time. Like I can't stand it. First of all, that is wildly anti-Semitic
to just be announcing on Beyonce's internet. Yeah. But like also it's just so fundamentally ignorant.
Yeah. I love how Christopher Hitchens refers to, he says, he goes, how
Christians passive-aggressively call the Old Testament, the Old Testament,
the Hebrew Bible, the Old Testament. I'm like, it is passive-aggressive.
It is, yeah. God, that might be the thing that drives me the most insane at the moment,
is watching these like theobrogyns talk about how the Old Testament has...
Sorry. What do you just say? What's the theobrogyn?
It's like a theologian, bro. Theobrogyn.
I've never heard that, and that is amazing. Oh, yeah.
When you're on Twitter or wherever even, it's just happened to me mostly on Twitter,
where it's like all of these dudes that are like reformed, which is code for like,
I was a hall monitor in high school. And usually they're like some kind of Calvinist,
which is also like, I got picked last in gym class. And so predestination, bitch.
That's how I view these people. Theobrogyn, that is such a good term. I'm so glad I know.
Theobro, that's so good. But they like have these super hot takes where like Leviticus is all
about Jesus. And I'm like, take your hand off your shitty beard. Like it's not relax.
Stop telling Jewish people what their literal holy book is about. You can do it.
But yeah, like it's just, it's wild to me, the
the audacity of Christians. Because I mean, like I remember being a Christian and like
asking my parents, like, hey, so the Jews were God's chosen people, but they don't believe in Jesus.
So like, what's up? Like, what's happening seems weird that they would be God's chosen people and
then like, go to hell. Like it seems weird. And their response was effectively incredibly
anti-Semitic and problematic because it was like, yeah, well, they're wrong. They didn't believe in
Jesus and they killed them. And, you know, God will have to like literally their hearts.
They literally like say that the Jewish people committed deicide.
Deicide. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, crazy. And as a child, I was like, okay. And then as an adult, I was like,
excuse me, come again. It makes so much more sense now. There's so much I've been wondering
recently, I've been running into so many anti-Semites. And I'm like, I'm wondering
where it's all come from. And now it makes a little bit more sense. Yeah, wow. So just to
round out your deconversion experience, that was, it was essentially because you started
noticing problems with the Bible and they couldn't be reconciled in an honest way.
You can reconcile anything if you try hard enough, I guess. But we want to talk a little bit about
your experience in church. So like, I heard a couple of things over your TikTok. Like,
for example, that the Loch Ness Monster was proof that evolution was false. Can you explain what
you mean? What do you mean? What is that? I mean, what do I mean? We haven't found the Loch Ness
Monster. So how is that proof of anything? I went, it's not spoiler alert, but like,
so I went to a very, very fundamentalist school for several years. And the way this school worked
was that effectively you took some tests, and then they placed you at certain levels and subjects,
right? But there was no teacher. There was a learning sort of station. And you sat at your desk,
there was dividers to either side of you. And you had a series of workbooks. So you had a workbook
for every subject, depending on where you tested into. So I could potentially have a math workbook
at say, like, I don't know, grade six. And then I could have a social studies workbook at grade
10, just depending on where I tested. But you're always working independently. So you sit at your
desk with your dividers, and you have to finish a certain number of sort of pages, I don't know,
sections, and within the week. Now, the thing is, this curriculum that was given to us is called
ACE Accelerated Christian Education. And it was developed by Baptists in the 70s in Texas.
So just like, for those of you that are in America, I just let that sink in. There's levels.
There's levels. You're like Baptists, 70s, Texas, holy shit.
I'm seeing like bootcut jeans, mustaches, tucked in shirts.
To be honest, I couldn't tell you what that looks like in the 70s. I don't know. I just know the
theology was incredibly Young Earth creationist. So the science workbooks were
Science. Exactly. Yes, science. The science workbooks effectively
just taught Young Earth creationism full stop. But they're rebuttal to this idea of evolution,
even though they didn't really give any sort of context, maybe, or just sort of understanding
of what evolution is. Their rebuttal was that evolution cannot possibly be true
because the Loch Ness monster exists. And that's a dinosaur. And that's it. That's it. There's no
there's no extra thing I can offer you. But it doesn't work. It still doesn't work. Wait, wait.
But evolution has dinosaurs. But is it saying that because
It's saying that like dinosaurs wouldn't exist
still if evolution was a thing, right? So like, yeah. So if Loch Ness, maybe we can crack this.
If Loch Ness was a dinosaur, is it saying that therefore the dinosaur fossils aren't accurate?
It's actually other big creatures or something? To be honest, I'm trying to find that far. Yeah,
effectively, the argument was Loch Ness monster is just like, okay, so Young Earth creationism
says that like the Earth was created 6,000 years ago, right? That's the idea. I don't remember
all of the details if I'm being honest. I assume if I'm remembering somewhat correctly,
that like, yes, dinosaurs were created at creation. Young Earth creationism is true. So
therefore the Earth was created 6,000 years ago. Therefore dinosaurs must have died out
somewhere around five, four, right? Like 1000 years ago, there's not a lot of other options
there because we have many documents from those years. So in their mind, if I believe
the Loch Ness monster was basically a sort of rare, sort of very ancient dinosaur that
had managed to survive in Scotland. Oh, okay. So they're saying that they couldn't have been
65 million years ago because it survived? Because, yeah. And so this thing, and it did not, also it
did not evolve. It's always been this way. I don't think it was 65 million years ago either.
None of it is rational in any way whatsoever. Like I need to reiterate that, like none of it makes
any fucking sense. But there is like, actually an article, and I don't remember if it's in like
New York Times or WAPO or something, but there was an article about like, these people think
that the Loch Ness monster is proof that evolution is not true. And I was like, it's me.
It was at the time, because everyone's telling you, you're just like, okay.
But looking back, I'm like, that shit is crazy.
When you're growing up too, you're not just like, you're just trying to get through school. You're
not this ultimate skeptic, like running around trying to find the truth. You're just trying to
finish your grade school. So you can go back to using MSN to message like whoever you're interested
in. So true. I'm just trying to get on hotmail right now. You know what I mean? Yeah. What up?
Like, I was literally trying to just like finish school so I can go place an MS DOS computer game.
Like that was, that's all I was saying. Age of Empires, Baby or Sims. Oh my god. The other
crazy church story that we have from you is we're going to call it Jays Cancer School. Oh shit.
Yes. Can you tell the story or is it? No, I'll tell it. So when I was growing up,
again, the church was very charismatic. They believed in all sorts of like signs and miracles
and wonders. And, and there was a woman in my church who had, if I'm remembering correctly,
three sons. She was single when she joined the church and she at a certain point ended up with
this single man from the church. That's not that important except for that this man had a couple
of kids. I think it was two sons. So anyway, they get married. It's great. She is ultimately diagnosed
with cancer and incredibly sad, like no doubt whatsoever. And so because my church was so
charismatic, they would regularly sort of announce and pray for her and do it in this sort of like
in tongues and with prophecy and, you know, speaking truth over her life and, and sort of,
I don't know if you're familiar with this idea of like
sort of the speaking truth as in like speaking what the Lord is going to do.
And in some situations, it's not harmful, right? You could say like, I'm going to speak into your
life. The Lord is going to do X, which is just like, I don't know, you being a really powerful
person in the future, right? Like that can mean any number of things if it doesn't happen. Nobody
really cares. But they would speak healing into her life and, and tell everybody that they just
needed to have faith and like, you know, she was going to be healed. It was going to be a miracle,
yada, yada, yada, incredibly irresponsible. She unfortunately passed away. And so naturally,
the funeral was going to be at the church. And it was going to be upcoming. And in the week before
the funeral, the pastor, who also with my uncle, so fun fact, sort of announced that we were going
to believe the Lord for her healing and resurrection from the dead. And like, I know that it sounds
crazy when I say that because it is. But when you are born and bred in this very charismatic
environment, you're taught that if God wants to, he'll raise people from the dead. And it's not
this like crazy concept. It's something that's regularly taught to you. And so you think that
if you have enough faith, if God wants to do it, if you believe hard enough,
then like that gift will come. And so the day of the funeral came and we're all there,
like all five of the kids. Clearly, I'm not one of them, but we're all there. The five kids are
there. The stepdad is there. And the pastor decides that like, we're all going to pray over her dead
body to. I didn't know this part of the story. Yeah, like bring her back from the dead. Like,
to be fair, I can't remember if the casket was open or closed. I do think it was closed.
But effectively, like, we need to have faith. We need to pray that she's going to come back
from the dead because that's something God wants to do. Like, we just have to also want it enough.
Like, it was a very weird sort of, I don't even know if reciprocal is the right word,
but just like a very weird, if we have enough faith, if we believe hard enough,
if we trust enough, then God will do this. Okay, obviously, she's still dead. Like,
it's very sad, but like, I don't think it's a surprise to anyone that like she's still dead.
But it did a lot of damage to these kids that were Christians at the time telling them that like,
if we have enough faith, if we believe hard enough, if we pray, I don't know, hard enough,
or whatever, that like, God wants to do this, so he will do it. And like, that very much
lends to this idea that like, y'all just didn't have enough faith, you didn't pray hard enough,
you didn't believe hard enough, like, you failed at something, and that's why your mom is still dead.
Oh, God. And like, obviously, he didn't say that directly, but that's the implication
right? Like, how, what other implication could you have for that?
No, it's, it's so traumatic. It must be so traumatic for them.
God awful. Yeah.
I remember when I was first becoming a Christian, I had a friend whose mother was dying of cancer,
and he asked me, can the church pray? Can the youth pray? And I said, yeah, and he was a Christian.
I was like, yeah. And we prayed and stuff. And anyway, I didn't hear from him for a few weeks or
whatever. And I called him, I was on holidays, school holidays, and I said, hey, man, how you
doing? He said, oh, I'm good. I'm just hanging up with my family. My mom's passed. And I was like,
and I was like, I was thinking my thinking my head. I was like, no, that can't be right because
we prayed. So like, how did it, how this is what else is needed? Yeah. And then he and I was almost
like, I was almost like, no, like, yeah, I was almost like, this can't be right. Like, what do you
mean? She said, we prayed. And the Bible clearly says that if you pray, it will be given. And I
was actually perplexed that she died of cancer. And I almost asked, should we pray over her body?
And I'm so glad I didn't. But yeah, because we're in horrible. But yeah, it's just...
But also it would have been a totally fair, like, of course, it would have been painful, but it
would have also been a totally fair question for you to ask based on what you knew and what we
were taught, right? So like, it's just so dangerous to teach people this stuff, because then you
have these like really weird expectations. And when they don't work, not only are you
mourning the loss of somebody, whoever it is, you're then also feeling like you failed.
And unless you actually murder someone, like, you aren't responsible for the death of another
human being. And so that will compound the trauma moving on, because you think like,
this person died, and I could have done something, even though you could not have.
Oh, geez. Yeah, good old church. There are a lot of people, like, to take, to play devil's
advocate for the Christian. A lot of people would say that Christians are just trying to work out
reality, just like everyone else, and they're trying to. But it's just like, that may be true,
but it's like, in the process of doing some harm. Yeah, it seems quite harmful. And not
everyone has all the answers. But man, like, I don't know, it's just a sad circumstance.
I mean, none of us have all of the answers. Nobody does. But I feel like it's a lot safer to say,
hey, I don't know what happens. I don't know why it happens. But like, I'm going to walk with you
through this, regardless of what happens. Because I feel like that's the most realistic thing that
we can say, because whether or not this person passes away or stays alive, while I'm still here,
they all sort of hold your hand through this, you know, proverbially. And I feel like in this life
that might be the best thing that we can do is just show up for people in their pain and suffering
without having to offer them any kind of outcome. That's like, it's a very good point.
Maybe the last thing we can go on to is we can talk and I'd like to have a bit of a
deep dive or at least a below the surface dive of purity culture in church.
Because we spoke a little bit about this over just organizing this interview. But
purity culture, and I mentioned this in the last interview with Dr. Josh, it fucked me up really
bad. And it caused some seriously negative side effects in my life, in my marriage, and things
like that. And I'd just love to hear your perspective on purity culture has affected you.
Yes, I very much grew up in the age of like Josh Harris's I Kissed, Dating Goodbye, and like,
you know, courtship is the way to go and like the yada, yada, yada. I also grew up in a church where
I was incredibly emotionally stunted and all of the sort of similar aged men around me
were also emotionally stunted. And so effectively for me, it was like, well, just be pure until you
meet someone. And I was like, well, where am I going to meet anyone? Because it's clearly not here.
And so like, I think at one point, my parents got me a purity ring. And I was like, cool. And I
promptly lost it because I am severely ADHD and nobody ever noticed until, I don't know, a year ago.
Um, but this idea of women only sort of existing to compliment and find a partner is incredibly
damaging. So, and it's not just for women, right? It's also damaging for men because you're taught
that like, and there's only one woman for you and she's going to be the highest quality and like,
also, if you do anything to jeopardize her purity, then clearly she's not of the highest
quality. And so then you leave and then it leaves her in this very vulnerable, like,
state where she feels like she's no longer worth anything. Like, it's a very complicated situation.
But for me, the way I was brought up, purity culture was very much, you should not have sex
until marriage. Like, if you can avoid it, you shouldn't even kiss until marriage.
And sex, this is like, incredibly sacred thing that has tons of emotional meaning all of the time.
It doesn't. And and spoiler alert, it doesn't. Yeah, spoiler alert. And that also, like,
if you feel, or I guess not that you learn that your body is inherently
damaging to men, if you're not careful about it, like you learn that you will cause them to stumble,
you learn that they will be distracted, you learn that they will have sinful thoughts if you are
not hyper aware of your body and like how to cover it up at all times. Yeah. Now, because of that,
you internalize this idea that your body is bad. Like, yeah, it may not be that logical, but it is
what you internalize. If my body can have all these adverse side effects, then inherently,
something is wrong. And as you move to life, go ahead. You see, that's that's so interesting,
because I'm glad we got to talk about this, because that's the opposite side effect of what
I've had experience as as a male is with with with us, it was like, you have this thing that you
can't control that eventually if you don't keep under wraps, you'll be like hunting down the
cause damage and then like, yeah, you'll just be like, you won't be able to control yourself.
And it was, yeah, and it's really interesting to hear the the perspective of someone on the
opposite sex, because yeah, keep going. I just wanted to mention that because it's I just never
really considered that it would make you feel that your body was dirty, like that's a horrible thing
to that. I feel like that's the number one thing that happened. And I think that's incredibly
interesting that you say that that like, you felt or you were taught that you were sort of like this
inherent predator, whether or not you wanted to be right. Whereas we were taught from a very young
age, like, you have to cover up because you might distract someone, you might cause someone to stumble
and I'm like, I'm literally 12. Like, am I causing this fucking adult man to stumble? And like,
looking back, I'm like, y'all are so creepy. But at the time, I was taught that. So I was like, oh,
something is wrong with my body. And when you're developing through puberty at that time,
that's an additional problem, because you're already kind of uncomfortable, like what the
fuck's happening with your body. And then you're taught that like the only person that's ever
meant to see that or experience it or touch it or whatever is your husband. But then in reality, like
how do you meet your husband, right? Like y'all should be attracted to each other, right? But
then you're like, well, if I'm overtly attractive, then I'm sinful. So it becomes this like very
weird thing where you view your body as inherently bad, because its natural shape and form attracts
men. And therefore is sinful, because you're causing men to be attracted to you, which is
the super fucked thing, right? And then like, they also like would have men's groups where it was
like, it was like, how long can we go without masturbating? Like how long can we go? That's wild
to me. Yeah, like how long do you have a calendar? And we honestly did and we had accountability
partners that we would message, like pray, and that meant that I'm horny. I really want to jack
off right now. Yeah, essentially, yeah, essentially, I'm horny, go pray. And then like you get to the
end of the week or whatever, and it'd be like, pray, pray, pray, pray, pray, like everyone's like
they're struggling or whatever. And then there's no wonder too, that like a woman with a, or someone
you're attracted to with like showing like one centimeter of cleavage, you're like,
you've been building up for like, like two weeks. Just masturbate. Have a good time. Have a good
time. Don't let it control your life. Get in the shower. Do it. And like move on with your day.
It's fine. Exactly. Exactly. Oh, I think the problem is that you're taught because of original
sin, that your body is naturally bad. And so these inclinations that you might have, right,
sexually, especially, are inherently bad. That's, and then you, you totally skip over all of the
like enlightenment, puritanism, like bug or react, like you skip over all of this like demonization
of sexual or of sexuality. And, and then, and St. Augustine, good Lord, don't get me started on him.
I don't know much about him, but oh, good God, like the city of God.
You know what, I don't know probably, but I do know that his like sexual like ethos was very
much based on the fact that his father saw him get an erection at a bathhouse and he was embarrassed.
It's like a disaster. St. Augustine. Yeah. The city of God, he wrote the city of Godia. Yes. And
then he went on to like write this entire like treaties on sexuality, which was like y'all nasty.
That's what I'm like paraphrasing to. And so we have this idea that our bodies are inherently
bad. Therefore, any like sort of desires that we have aren't going to be inherently bad. And
this weird crossover between like puritanical sex and the only sex being appropriate is for
procreation. Like there's just so much going on there. And then so there's all of this sexual
shame that appears. And so then it's like, we just set people up to lose. Like you shouldn't
masturbate. You shouldn't have any sexual desires. Like what the fuck do I look like, Paul? Like
and then you see a woman who has a half an inch of ankle exposed and your body does what it's
supposed to do and has the chemicals and has the whatever and you're attracted to women or men or
whoever, right? But like you have that attraction. And so of course, if you've been trying to push
that down and push that down and push that down, to me, it feels very much like if you try to
push sadness down over and over and over and over again, eventually it's going to show up as
just like anger or something, right? And so then if you try and like push down this very natural
feeling emotion, whatever, over and over and over again, eventually it's going to come out for like
no reason. It's just something that doesn't even like fully make sense. Just like, I don't know,
I saw her like kneecap. It's just like send me over the edge. But that's because you haven't
been honoring the needs of your body because you were taught they're bad.
Yeah. I wonder too, if I love what you said there, the honoring needs of your body, but
I wonder if and maybe I'm wondering like hopefully you can give me some insight, but
it seems as though men were treated as like the ones that were needed to hold back their sexual
urges and women need to help them hold back their sexual urges by covering up. But
where's the like, was it, was there ever talk about like men needing to cover up because women are
attracted to men or lasting after men? You see, that's, to me, that seems like I think biologically,
I could be wrong, probably am wrong, but biologically, I think men, men are probably more
sexually inclined in generalities, if you're speaking in generalities, but maybe that's cultural,
maybe that's not a thing. And maybe it's just because we've been taught that way, because
from what I understand now, given the right circumstances, women can be just as perverted
and just as sexually like, why can't women find like men attractive and last after them?
Why is it the, it's so, it's, it seems to be like a weird form, excuse the pump, but a perverse form
of demonizing, like making like women don't have a sexual, you know, like it's like,
it's very much the Madonna and the whore paradox. Okay, what's that?
So the Madonna and the whore paradox is the idea that like, a lot of men have had historically,
or may still hold not, not everybody, but some, where they want their women to be this like,
sexually pure being, but also somehow this incredibly like, like, sexually, like, exactly,
like they want them to be this like, free, right? So it's this very interesting sort of,
I don't know, tension between men, not between men, sorry, there's this very interesting sort of
tension because men both want women to be this like, very pure thing on a pedestal
and also want them to be like, incredibly freaky and dirty, but they judge them for being both.
Yeah, that's actually, I can see, I mean, not to out my software, but I can see that those
own biases reflect in my own life. And I wonder, like, is that just inherent? Or is that something
that I've developed over in the culture or tradition or something? I would argue, it's
probably largely cultural, and it's not just like cultural in regards to like America or Australia,
it's, it's very much this idea that God, I'm not fully acquainted with this, but like,
just to be, just to be clear before I sound like a bigot or something or like a sexist thing,
it's a, I understand that it's probably a bias, but it's not something that I like go,
therefore, are you okay? Like, I always try and push back against my biases.
Of course, of course. Yeah. But that's just like anything, right? We, like, I would tell every
white person that they're racist and people would have a big problem with this. And then like,
me too, right? Like, we are conditioned to be this way. That doesn't mean that we're actively out
there, like trying to harm people. It just means that we've been taught by our society and our
culture that like, certain things are true, and we have to learn to push back against them. So like,
I get what you're saying. But, but there certainly is this idea that like, however you want to
categorize it or define it, we want women to be pure and this idea of like, untouched and clean
and holy and whatever, and that manifests in a number of different ways. It's not going to be
the same for everyone. But at the same time, we find women attractive that are earthy and in their
bodies and that are fully connected to their sensuality and like all of these other things.
But we will also judge both of those women, right, by saying like, they're approved and boring.
And then by saying this woman is a whore, like that type of thing. We want both of those things.
We judge both of those things and we're somehow looking for both of those things, right? And like,
that's the thing that we're kind of pushing back against because in reality, neither of those exist.
Like, nobody is this like, virgin Madonna, right? It's impossible. And to be honest, nobody wants
that. Nobody actually wants that. We're just taught that women should be one or the other.
And if at any point they overlap, we judge them for it. And so that's the pushback, right? Like,
where it's because we only see women as valuable in a very binary way. Can this woman,
can this woman base her value on whether or not I've touched her and whether or not she can provide
me a child? And I know this is very basic, but this is the like sort of very fundamental driving
logic behind it. And then can like, and is this woman like, does she please me? Does she do what
I need her to do? Does she meet these needs? Does she meet these sort of like very deep desires?
But at the same time, we're so sexually shamed. If a woman does that, we view her as bad.
And we struggle to meet those two things in the middle. But I'm going to stop talking.
Yeah. I actually noticed, I noticed that with the, I'm trying to work out how to say this.
I've noticed that that pornography has become a lot more mainstream, like with Only Fans and
things like that. No longer is it like, you know, you're doing, you know, you're taking drugs and
living the high life and going down to, to, you know, shoot porn in wherever they shoot at LA or
whatever. But just in your room being like, yeah, yeah. And I also wonder like, you know, I think
with that has come like a lot of changes to how we see the traditional relationships. A lot of
people find porn and interesting and acceptable part of their relationship where they might watch
it together by themselves. But I also wonder, you know, like, you know,
relationships, you know, people open up their relationships. But there's also like,
I wonder if like, in 500 years, if, like, I always wonder if like, this is the dawn,
if historians will look back this and see like the access to really grotesque internet porn and
like what we have today as, but like the, as the dawn of like the new, a new type of sexual
revolution where people don't necessarily see gender or, and they have like companions and they,
they're like, I'm attracted to X person. Do you want to fool around? Yes. Like I wonder if it's,
I wonder what if, because no other point in time have I seen people have access to such
an amazing amount of information and the ease of the ability to explore their sexuality. So I
wonder how that's going to play out over the next 500,000 years or whatever, if humanity even makes
it that long. I mean, I doubt that. But to be honest, I do think for whatever reason you want to
sort of qualify it as, I think that we are at this really interesting point in which
we are realizing that monogamy is not the only way. And in fact, it's not the only
right way. I think for a long time, most of us have held this ideal that like, okay, we go to school,
go to college, I'll find someone, we'll get married, we'll have kids, that's the life. And that's the only
right way to do things. When in reality, there's a variety of right way to do things.
And we're sort of just figuring it out right now, because I think in the past, it really mattered for
women to be married to a man because they had to survive economically. But now,
women are surviving okay on their own. And so they can then decide who they spend their time with.
And I also think that you see this, like, okay, we've been together 20 years and we're
fucking bored of each other, but we still love each other, we just want other experiences.
And for a long time, that wouldn't have mattered, you just stick it out. But because of the way
sort of like society and ideology is freeing up a little bit, you're seeing people that are saying,
like, I love you, I still want to share my life with you. But like, there are other experiences
to be had. And, you know, we want to do those things. And I, if I'm being honest, I do think
ethical non magami is the way of the future, but I don't know what the arc of that looks like.
And it's certainly not for everyone, right? Like, I'm not going to tell everyone, but that's
definitely their life path. But I think from my own experiences and people I know, and just the sort
of the seeming arc of the last 10 years, it does very much seem like folks are looking for
more people to love. I wonder too, I always wonder too, because I've experienced the same
thing where it seems like a lot of friends and family and stuff and, you know, having less
traditional monogamous, like non monogamous relationships. But I always wonder if that's
just a sign of my age. Like, I want to talk to my dad and be like, Hey, when you got to like 30,
did you just start noticing everyone was like, you know, sex wasn't that big of a deal and people
kind of screwing each other and it was okay. Or is that a time, an age of the time? Like,
it'd be interesting to see some studies on this. Maybe I'd love to do, I'd love to do like a
half year, like half a year course on like sexuality and human relationships.
Because I mean, I do think that there's like a much freer sort of,
it's much freer now to decide, right? So like 50 years ago, it wouldn't have even been like
socially acceptable in any way whatsoever to explore that. And I'm sure people still did,
but it would have been so much cognitive dissonance, so much harder to kind of
accept that or even think about it. And the population size would be so much smaller.
Whereas now it's like, you could go on a dating app, you can freaking walk outside. And like,
at least where I live, every other person is like non monogamous, right? So it's like a very like
different thing, because there's so much more options.
Do you know how this is just a random drunken thought, but do you know how the
population has like the birth rates decreasing? And it's decreasing in like,
this is a Jordan Peterson talking point, but it's decreasing in.
Jordan Peterson.
Yeah. With the, with, you know, the birth rates going down, I wonder if the birth rates were
just up a lot, because people didn't have access to relieving their sexual desires with things like
masturbation and pornography so easily, it wasn't accepted. And now the husband
can just like fulfill his needs in the shower in the morning. The wife can, you know,
roll over and use her vibrator. Like, I wonder if that's part of the reason why we're seeing
this slump in, in that is because the man doesn't come home drunk at 3am and goes,
wife, you're my property. Let's have sex right now. And they have a kid. I wonder if that's
also a reason why we're seeing this slump in, in, in, in birth rates and also access to
birth control. I wonder if I'm just. No, I think there's probably a lot of reasons,
like absolutely. I think there's probably a lot of reasons. And I do think that's probably one of
them where, so you study statistics and I think there's a lot of overlap. And you would certainly
have to control for a lot of bias if you're studying these things, because yeah, absolutely,
at certain times, it's more socially acceptable for women to just do whatever the husband wants
for lack of a better term. And like, yes, I believe that sexual assault, but like,
at different times, it would just be not okay. It wouldn't feel good, but
socially, it would be more acceptable for these things to happen, right? Like it's,
it's still sexual assault. But like, whereas like now, if someone came home and was like,
I want to have sex with you. And I was like, I don't, like, there's going to be a much,
I'm not going to feel as much social pressure to then succumb to that, right?
Yeah. And it's great that. No, no, I, I think that's good. And I actually love that people
can have relationships now where someone comes home and says, Hey, I'm, I'm horny. Can we bang?
And the person goes, no, I don't want to. And they go, okay, I'm going to go jack off in the
spare room. And you're like, all right, like, all the, all the other, all the other way around.
Yeah. It's like, let me know how it goes or whatever.
I love that some relationships can be like that. And, and I think that's, that's great and healthy.
Well, I think that's like also part of purity culture where like, I was taught,
you know, porn is bad, masturbation is bad. Therefore, if somebody else is doing this,
it's bad. And so like, it felt very much like if my boyfriend was masturbating, it was like a
slight on my worth somehow. It was a very weird thing where I felt insulted by it. And like,
now if somebody did, I'd be like, whatever, I'm going to like do this other thing. Like,
best of luck. Hope you have fun. But I hope it's all like, I hope it's also understood that it's
other way around. Like sometimes like in relationships, the woman just wants wants to have
some alone time. And then the man's not interested in stuff. Yeah. And then it's, it should be
perfectly normal. Yeah. And it should be fine. That's the thing. It's fine. But I think it's
like so demonized in Christian circles. But like, I think we're also taught to very much
believe that men are ready and willing all of the time. And it's not necessary.
I'm not. Sometimes I'm having a panic attack. And I don't want to have sexy time.
Sorry, I'm having a panic attack. This is not sexy. Like, I'm stressed.
Well, that's what I mentioned in previous podcast is like, I used to have intense anxiety around
like before having sex and after having sex, because I just felt this tremendous amount of like,
I don't know what it was, but I felt anxious around having sex after we got married. We waited
to have sex. That's normal, considering the environment you grew up in.
Yeah, we did things by the book. And then when it was time to actually have sex, it was like,
I was like, am I lost too much? Am I lost too much in this? Yeah, in this chapter.
It's a mind fuck, you know, sorry, pun intended. But
hmm. Yeah, it certainly can go both ways. I think there's the expectation that men are
frequently more ready or whatever you want to call it. But it certainly isn't reality.
There are situations in which that is very different. And we're talking about trends as well.
What is this? Exactly. Yeah, it's trends, not personal, like not unique people. Yeah. And to be
honest, like, you know, I never mind. Let's not be honest. Just keep that to ourselves.
All right, cool. Anyway, so last question. And this is take some time to answer this if you want.
If you you mentioned that you didn't, you never had the experience of God, right?
Let's say a relative or a friend invites you to a church and you have this overwhelming experience
now at 32. Knowing what you know about the Bible and everything, but still having this
really powerful experience, let's say it reduces your tears, you feel shaking, you feel cleansed,
would that shift your perspective on your belief about God?
So probably not. It might, it might shift my belief on a sort of cognitive spirituality,
right? Like, I might believe that there is some level of consciousness that I haven't
have attained in this moment due to specific levels of maybe like emotional, musical,
psychological, maybe manipulation is not the right word, but just some kind of external
force that has caused my cognition to maybe change or evolve. It certainly would not make
me believe in the Christian God, right? I think that that is a very specific belief that I don't
think, like, even if I had this very emotional experience, it doesn't point to Yahweh or Jesus,
right? It points to some kind of experience of my emotions, brain, cognition, whatever,
but it's not saying like, well, this definitely means Yahweh, like, that's the difference. And so
I don't think that it would change my idea of agnosticism, where I'm saying, I don't know if
there's anything, I don't believe in it, but I don't know. So much as it might sort of give me
a curiosity into different levels of consciousness, but not to a higher power. Does that make sense?
Yeah, it makes sense. I've often heard that, you know, Christians have asked,
like a street preacher once asked me, what would you need to be convinced of the existence of
the God? And you know, the classic, I'm going to make a video about this, but the classic
Matt De La Hante quote, I have no idea, but God would know. I'm going to make a video,
because I think there's a better answer. I think the answer is, to be convinced of the
existence of the Christian God would be the same thing you would need, and you would need to be
convinced of a married bachelor. That is that it doesn't logically work. Like, you need to,
like, if you could somehow, if you could somehow remove those parts, then maybe, but then you're
not really talking about what you're talking about now. But so I, so with that said, I'm wondering
if you have that same experience in, say, a very separate religion that you do nothing about. So
would, like, say if you went to India and you learned, and it was some sort of Eastern religion,
some sort of sect of Hinduism or Buddhism or something, maybe didn't even have a God.
Would you be more inclined to investigate that as some sort of a spiritual thing?
And that's just a bonus question. Yeah, it's an interesting question. I think overall,
I am not convinced that any emotional, so I very much connect the emotional and the spiritual.
I'm not sure how you delineate between those two things. Yes, I think that most people that have
a spiritual experience are probably just having an emotional experience. And so then how do you
define that? For me, I need a, at best, a logical counterpart. So if I have an emotional experience,
okay, that's great. I need something that I can anchor myself to in a very physical way.
So I've gone places and had an emotional reaction to them, right? Like I've been
in the Sagrada Familia in Spain and I have felt an emotion because beautiful and like the stained
glass changes in the sunlight and like you stand in this very historical place and it can bring
up emotions in you, but it's certainly not, I did not attribute it to a God in any sense. Like
now you could say that was emotional, you can say it's spiritual, you can say whatever you want,
but it certainly was not me thinking that I had some connection with a higher power.
And so that's sort of how I always explore things, right? Like I might go somewhere and have an
experience in a temple or in the holy place of some kind of Eastern religion. But a lot of that,
I chalk up to just being a human in a very unique and special situation.
Some people believe in energy, some people don't. I'm not here to argue either side,
but I do think there's something to be said for standing in a place where people have stood for
thousands of years that has been very important and holy or special to them. But it's meant something
to them and experiencing that for what it is, I will not say it's God, I won't say it's energy,
but there's certainly an experience to be had, especially for some people, maybe not for others.
But it's not a, for me anyway, it doesn't point to a higher power, it simply points to
the condition of being. It points to the fact that we exist as humans and we have for a really
long time and there's a thread maybe throughout history that it's not divine, it's not cosmic,
it's simply just us experiencing this wild fucking life. Sorry, that's probably really jumbled.
No, that makes a lot of sense. I remember I have a very similar outlook in that. We're
like the same person over here. I think so. We're going to have to meet friends after this.
Yeah. I had this similar experience where I was reading the bug, I was listening to the
Bhagavad Gita, Pulsar, Drunk in Bali, and because the Hinduism was big down, I want to let it go,
and chapter nine just hit me like a ton of bricks. It felt like this weird, really warm feeling. I
just don't attribute truth to that feeling. I look at the stars and I get a feeling like that.
I look at like, I'll read like a really ancient text of any form and I'm like, wow, this was
written 2,000 years ago. This is amazing. People really felt it 2,000 years ago and I'm feeling it
in some way today, but that doesn't mean God. That just means that like...
I don't attach a truth to that. You can see this too. I mentioned before, I used to develop video
games. Part of video games is you're like, there's the little coin and there's the big coin. The big
coin is big. People have this inherent... For whatever reason, they have this inherent
desire to want the most important, the most big thing. That's what games we collect things is,
that's the whole point. It wouldn't work if our psychology wasn't like that. Anyway, thank you
so much, Heed and Queen, for coming on the Deep Drinks podcast. Once again, I'm drunk on a
Saturday. I keep doing these on a Saturday and so I'm going to go continue having a great
Saturday, but thank you so much for coming on. Thank you for having me. Namaste. See you soon.
Neil deGrasse Tyson, bless.
