You
You
Welcome to deep drinks podcast where the drinks are deep and the conversations are deeper
Welcome everyone to a special get a special episode of deep drinks podcast
We have a different of mine on today, and it's going to be awesome before we jump into it
Obviously, we've got a few couple announcements
First thing I want to mention is if you're not following us on podcasting apps
And you'd like this stuff make sure you go and follow us on the podcasting apps because it helps boost the
Podcast cloud and I've people have been enjoying it. Um, which has been really awesome to hear
Listening to it on road trips and things like that
The second thing I want to quickly mention
Is if you are listening on the podcast you go to youtube.com slash deep drinks this podcast was recorded live
And so if you want to join in on the conversations, that's youtube.com slash deep drinks
The other thing I wanted to mention
Before we get into it, which I've just lost my notes here
But stay tuned for the end because we will have a very special
Thing that will be happening with
my friend Oz so without further ado I
Want to welcome Oz who is the founder of Tang who co-owns it with his lovely a partner who's in the comments section at the moment
Jenna black female atheist. You may know her as Tang stands for the atheist network group Tang has
Successfully hosted a kick-ass
Conference or panel called better, which is like a real world meetup
Which aims to better the discourse between atheists and religious folk
Oz is a former Christian who has just about seen heard and felt at all his words
Through his deconstruction
Destructing experience. We're hoping that people can go away from today with some
Hearing a bit of Oz's story and also getting some advice for maybe that might help them in their journey
So without further ado, I'll add Oz to the call and welcome him on
Welcome Oz. What's up, man? Good to be here. Thanks for having me. Oh, thank you for coming. That's it's a huge
It's a huge thing to have you on because I'm I don't I don't know if we've formally announced this properly
But I'm I'm part of the Tang gang like you guys have my rap skills and you I was like and you like got to have him on
So that's that's how it happens. So we've got a kind of a secret show coming up in the future
Don't we we haven't really announced it, but it's got some fun things happening. Yeah, we've I've kind of
Spread some crumbs out there for people to kind of get hyped about the other
It's it's about to go down
Yeah, something's something's going down
The other thing that I forgot to mention that benches good that I mentioned now is we actually have two hundred subscribers
So just a reminder that once we get to 1000 subscribers
We're doing a charity stream where I think I'm gonna do six hours. We're going to do something fun
We're gonna give away all the donations and everything to charity
And so that'll be a good time
So if you want to support this channel support what we do make sure you subscribe
Just click the button because once we get to a thousand I can monetize and get like the little notifications that give us some
Donations then I can put that towards
Helping charities, which is what I want to do
Also, imagine if I am drinking alcohol imagine how drunk I'll be after six hours. No one wants to miss that. That's
So so Oz man
What are we drinking your choice of liquor, right?
Yep. Well, I I told David my my favorite my go-to is crown
Crown Royal Apple, but I stopped after work tonight at the liquor store in there out. So I got
canate
Whiskey Canadian Apple, so it's it's very very close
But Apple whiskey not
Yeah, so yeah, and the same with Australia is sold out of this drink, which is very frustrating
But I've so I've got the Jack Daniels Tennessee Apple
So so I'm gonna pull I've never had this before never had a flavored whiskey besides fireball. I don't know if you guys have that in
In America, but we definitely drink a lot in Australia
So I got myself. Oh, it's very apply
Mm-hmm
Go and get you some of that get you some of that. Oh, it's good get that work
That's good. It's like a it's like a apple juice, but alcoholic
So Oz
Yes, my dear friend. I have to ask the same question you ask all of your guests when they come onto your show
What did it look like for little Oz growing up? Oh?
Boy
Let's start here my earliest memories
Are at church in church
When when you hear people talk about I was born into it. I was literally born into it
My mom was in full-time ministry for years
So I
Remember being a little rug rat running around, you know mom had music rehearsal or before service to start, you know, they had
their their warm-ups and rehearsals before and
I'm one of the little badass kids running around behind, you know, find all the different highway highways of Jesus
hallways and
All the places that we weren't supposed to be as kids, but you know being adventurous, but you know Sunday school
You
You name it I was there, you know when you're when your parents are full-time ministry you you literally live it
With them whether you want to or not, you know
So your parents were full-time ministers
Is that Ryan?
my my mom was
full-time
music minister music pastor praise and worship pastor whatever
Whatever the proper title is for that nowadays, but yeah, and my dad ushered and
It was the book was my mom
my dad
And I love my dad, and I say this playfully now. I think for a lot of that he was kind of along for the ride
He was here. I think I think you would agree with that now, but most was my mom because if it wasn't
music and praise and worship and my mom
wrote and
Released or distributed to Christian contemporary albums like full-length
albums if she wasn't doing that she
And I and part of this I'll give
Well, I guess my mom and dad both kind of the entrepreneurial spirit that I have I take a little bit from both of them
But my mom was always a creator
Not just with the music, but also she she started a
Quote-A-Quote of ministry in Kokomo, Indiana my hometown
It was called the Elizabeth program and they would go to the projects or you know go to
inner-city areas and find
single mothers that
Either single mothers or battered women and they'd go in and literally just do like a deep clean of the house
put food in the fridge and
Just be a service to you know those those ladies and young ladies
You know so if it wasn't that then she also
oversaw the the dance team and the mime team and
you know so she
Definitely now in retrospect probably hit off more than she could chew
as far as
finding that healthy balance between
life and work or life in ministry, you know, whatever and
Family, but that's that's all I knew you know grown up as far as
church and things other than that it was it was either church or sports and
There was no like it was we were either doing one of the others
So I played played baseball as an all-state baseball player in India here in Indiana
Played football and if it wasn't church it was sports either based like I said baseball or football and that's that's all I knew
you know
Growing up until I hit about
12 13 years old and that's when you know a lot a lot of the
A
Lot of the things that I thought
Were normal growing up
As soon as I started to
Meet friends go hang out with friends and even go hang out at other friends homes and
See and I got to see in here and watch how
Other husbands and wives
Communicated and how they communicated to their kids that sort of thing all of a sudden like 12 13. I'm like hold on
Why does this look so much more different than my home?
Because when we're at church it's
It's it's the cleavers like leave it to beaver, right? It's everything's cookie cutter pretty
Hmm
Just it from from the outsiders perspective it looks like the perfect family the mills family is the perfect family
right and
At that point, you know, my dad had purchased a home had a white picket fence like it was literally like a
Movie or a sitcom to the outside to a from an outsider's point of view
But what they didn't know was within those four walls, it was literal hell and
As I started to see and hear and experience these different
Homes and families and their lifestyles and their communication communication patterns things like that. I was like hold on
something's different here and why
Why doesn't you know person a or person B's mom or dad talk to or treat
Them or each other the way we do at our home a
Lot of this isn't making sense then
Then when I saw the
the validation and the love and the care that some of my friends are receiving that I
Didn't realize that I lacked until I started to have those experiences be be exposed to other
Families I already started to become
Agitated and
spiteful so to speak and that that's when at like 12 13 I
And being and I didn't know that then but being diagnosed bipolar. I've black and white thinking there is no gray
It's it's one or the other
That's when it turned to well, I'm
I'm just gonna do what I
Want to do and what feels good to me because I'm not getting that at home
And I'll I'll say this and if you have any questions we can
I'll let you ask away there, but that that's when it
I
Like I still believe that there was a God and I can't tell you how many nights that I trembled still
Fearing hell and fearing God
but
That's that was my introduction into first, you know smoking cigarettes than marijuana and then, you know
eventually being introduced to cocaine and that was just a
An avalanche, you know just
That took me, you know down years of you know bullshit
but that's kind that's kind of what led up to it and
You know now
At 40 years old and and probably being in the best place
since my mom's passing being the best place that I've been mentally and last year year and a half as I continue to look back and through therapy and
Trying to rewind and and
Recollect and understand what
What periods and what things happen that were pivotal and my actions and my decision-making I
Can now look back and know that
There there were several things which I'll get to I'm here in a few minutes
But there were several things now that I understand it why I did what I did
And why I made the decisions
That I made and were tied to the trauma or abuse and I didn't even know it was trauma or abuse and but I do now
So so when you're growing up, how did your like how did your home life differ from those around you?
Like you mentioned there was quite a big difference was there was was your
I'm imagining that other people's houses were better living situations sometimes or is that like how did it differ?
Great question
It was
The best word I can use is they and there were multiple
Examples I as far as friends that I would go and hang out at their house and and just be able to watch and listen
The family dynamic was much more gentle
and
Caring and loving and nurturing
And
And let let me you know if
If I'm speaking as a parent
More of a let me let me help you
Let me help coach you or guide you rather than you know kind of the
The the scripture I would say my my mom and dad probably
Subscribed to the most
With my brother and I is you know spare the rod spoil a child. It was always very heavily
It was a heavy discipline. It was very
almost militant, you know, and so there there was very little
there's very little
gentleness
Care sensitivity empathy
Anything like that it was it was
It was much more. No, we don't do this or you don't do this and if you do this
This is what happens that these are the consequences
So when you when you experience that and then you go and you start to again experience other family dynamics
And your friends and how they talk to their parents and their parents talk to them. It's like
what
What well, hold on hold on we're
My my family is the Christian family
Why why am I just supposed to be
This good little soldier
Which is when I look back at another that is exactly
Was my mindset
Why am I supposed to be this good little soldier and just obey orders?
Rather than what I'm hearing and listening to and and seeing here where it's
Okay, yes, maybe you did something wrong, but here here's why we don't do this or here's why you shouldn't do this
and and again
like I always say about my own children like
Teaching them how to think not what to think
And or you know why
Or how you should respond or how you should behave in this circumstance rather than just telling you this is how you behave and
There was never
You know what one of my favorite? I
Always says there's tons of one of my favorite things my mentor
Taught me was the three P's in life purpose process and payoff
What's the purpose?
What's the process? How do you get there? What's the payoff and and and I saw
Whether they knew tonight. I saw the parents
the other families that I would
Visitor be around and it was
Very much that whether they didn't it identified it as the three P's or or not. They they understood. Okay. Here's the per
Here's the purpose. This is why we should or shouldn't
Talk to each other this way. Let's use that example. This is why we should or shouldn't talk to each other this way
Here's the process and how we get better at this and how we hold ourselves accountable or whatever and the payoff is a more loving
nurturing peaceful home dynamic home
Atmosphere which was so foreign
Was so foreign to me. I was I grew up very very accustomed to yelling and screaming
and
and all the things that if
There were if it was 2022 and there was there was a YouTube channel about my family
Growing up it would have been a shit show
Yeah, daddy of five kind of vibes
It may have been worse
Yeah, that's not good
so I
Can relate a little bit not not to the extent that I remember I moved out with my dad and when I moved back to
To like visit when I came back to visit my mom and my little brothers
The house was like I got I think I got desensitized to like the way of communication
Which was just to scream like get off that chair. You're like whoa, like you're like the screaming was like
Why do we why do we have to scream about everything and and obviously you can see that sometimes in those situations?
That's like a coping mechanism that people build
to to deal with the
Painful situation that it is
So you were when you were could say you would you call yourself a Christian through your childhood up to at 1213
Did you ever come back to God after you went on your rebellious?
Yeah, I never stopped believing in God that's yeah, there there was like I said there
There were many nights or or moments where it was still, you know, the the trembling and the fear of hell
And and also the fear of punishment what I would get when I when I came home, you know, and
It'd be be far gone with that because I
I
Want to make sure that that I'm fair in this
Yeah, did it did a lot of fucked up things happen
In my home growing up. Yes, they fucking did and I won't sugarcoat it. I won't mince it. I
won't try to
You know take away from the abuses and the trauma that happened that said I did be before I continued to go on
I I want to be fair and consistent and say
my my parents
Well, first of all, my mom had me when she was seven so just turn 17
My mom and dad were very very young
when they hadn't when they had me I was the first born and
Not only were they very young they
They were doing the best that they knew to do even though you know
Now in retrospect, it's fucked
But they were doing the best that they thought that they could do with what they were given as far as religion and
What they were taught
You know and what they what they observed and what they saw and you know more so my my mom came from a very very fucked up
Like my my story is a walk in the park compared to what my mom's was growing up
You know, so I always I always want to be be fair and be consistent there
I know they loved me and I know that they you know, my dad's still here
But I know my dad loves me and cares about me
And I know my mom did too that does not take away from or minimize what they did or did not do
but I just
for for my own conscious and for
Entity purposes, I want to I want to throw that out there
Absolutely, like not people don't people rarely
deliberately do things that are harmful to other people for the sake of harming other people like that's not
usually people and this is this is why I have a lot of
empathy towards
Some forms of religious extremism because I think these people really truly believe what they're doing is right
And if they believe what they're doing is right, it's like how can you fold them? It's like it's the it's the system
It's the it's the information. It's the worldview that should be attacked first because solve that and you solve the problem and
I mean
your parents
Seemed like they went through a lot
And they raised you the best of their ability and you might do the same for your kids and hopefully your kids are even better than you
And my kids are better than me. I I think society should move forward in that way, but it doesn't take away the fact that
You get scars along the way, you know what I mean?
yeah, and
you know Jen and I have talked about this and
Yes, they're
I need to be we need to be reasonable
And
Talking about what the humans do
And how humans treat other humans, right and whether
Whether they were trained poorly or coach or raised poorly
That sucks, but you still have to be held accountable for your actions
And you and and that's where I draw the line
it's yes, I do get this and I do understand that these things were influential and
played a part in
Well, not just a part where we're playing a huge reason why
you did what you did
Made decisions that you made acted the way you acted, but it's not an excuse
You still have to stand accountable
for what you did or didn't do or did or didn't so
Now to what you asked me
And in that period I never believed that there wasn't a god it was I was
very much in a place
I'd become a very angry teenager
And the more
The more my brain developed and the more I understood
What was and or wasn't happening at home the the the more angry I became
and
Even even rageful
You know where it was there. There was true hatred
And it came out in so many areas of my life and the the one I always talk about is
You know because you know for all the the guys that played football, you know, american football, by the way american football
They you know, they they get a kick out of this and it's now in retrospect. No pun intended
And
But when I was playing because you know
Baseball is not a violent sport, you know by by nature, but american football very very much is and
in that
stretch of time in my life
That football field probably at sometimes either save my life or someone else's
Because I was able to go out there and unleash all of that hate and all of that rage
All of that anger
Wow
I remember
My coach is telling me like
Oz you you know, this is practice, right? Like these guys are on your team
Well, again, like I said earlier being bipolar
First and foremost, I did there there is no gray. There's no 50 miles an hour. It's either we're going zero or we're going 100
There's no 50 miles an hour
Then you further fuel that with all of this anger and rage and angst and
Those things and I my coaches loved it
Like when it was a game time because I just I turned into an animal and it was
Um
That was my
I was on hunt, right? I was on the prowl. I wanted to fuck somebody up
and
And I look back at that now
And I'm like man as as good as it felt to hear my coaches and my peers
applause that
And get amped and hyped
And and all the energy and the adrenaline and and all of that
As as much as it felt good then and in that moment when I look back at it now
That was really fucked up now. They did that. I don't hold them together. They had no idea
So fucked up because that was the only release that I had
Yeah
I had nobody to talk to
I had nobody to share
any of these things with on how
How I was feeling and why as soon as I put on their shoulder pads and put on that helmet
Why I turned into this other thing
And
You know, there's there's other areas where where I look back now and I can see where where that that anger
That that hate
and all that
Rear of its head
But but that's the one that has always stuck out to me the most because it was in in my mind
I I wasn't Austin anymore. Like I was literally
Like
Now I look back I view myself with just this ball of hate and rage
And anything that gets in front of me
On the you know on the football field using that example
If you have that football because I I refuse to play offense. I was like, no, I want to be on defense
I want to hit people
I want to fuck people up and if you have that football in your hand
Your ass is mine
Right and it wasn't even from a competitive like let's win the football game
Mentality it was I'm here to hurt people
Why?
Because I was hurt
I was hurt I was hurting
And hurting people hurt people. Yeah, and that was the only
like release
Uh, the that I had to escape that I had to relieve that
That because uh, I'll I'll say this and then um, and let you jump in because
Now I'm what six years six years diagnosed and treated for my bipolar
Um PTSD and anxiety ADHD like the whole fuck I got the whole fucking rap sheet
But up up to that point. I'm I'm
Undiagnosed untreated no
So at that age
That was my self medication
I'm gonna go out here
And and just fuck shit up
Because I feel like
I feel like off of this field
That's all that's happening to me is every day. I'm just getting more and more fucked up
It's um
It's a it seems I'm glad for one that you're in treatment. You got treatment for your
The stuff I was the same. I don't I don't talk about I've been diagnosed with obsessive compulsive disorder
Anxiety. Um, I don't have the washing hands. It's OCD. I have the thought OCD. It's called pure OCD
Um mild compared to a lot of people but it's it still calls me to vomit at the front of my house every
Every few days at night from panic attacks
but um
But I I remember fighting off medication and treatment for a long time and then when I finally
Took medication and got treatment. Um, it was life
Changing life saving. Um, and so I commend you on on doing that and I just want to mention that
um and jer said
um
Boys are socialized who only accepts emotion. Um, the only successful emotion is anger and I I
I somewhat agree with that. Um that but I more want to touch that to to say that
Men seem to think that anger isn't an emotion. They're not being emotional
Uh
Anger is an emotional response. It is emotion. It's uh, you know, when you when you when if you say to someone
You see someone angry and like, you know
Getting ready to fight someone outside of a club
It'd be weird to say oh, they're being very emotional, but it's true. It's actually what's happening
and I think that um
people people deal with
Deal with their internal conflicts and their cognitive dissonance and and other things that are going on inside them
By needing that release and sometimes and I think the best way to the the the idea isn't to treat the
treat the uh
Like the to stop you from being angry or stop you from being upset or stop you from being miserable a little pressed
but
first try and
Realize why you're being depressed and anxious. Maybe that's your brain chemistry
If in which case go through your own therapy, maybe it's you're got a horrible living situation
Maybe it's you're not fulfilled at work. Maybe it's you're holding a secret that you need to tell
It does to someone it doesn't matter what it is
You should deal with those those things and I think that for men anger comes out most time with anger
and if if I can
piggyback on that because that's a great point and Andrew. Thank you for saying that because
I
So before I I say
All right
I talk about my my experience with that. So my my dad I can remember
Even at 40 years old. I think I remember my dad showing any type of
Emotion maybe two times in 40 years
So any any time I felt upset like if I felt like I needed to cry
or
I I felt like
I was sad
my
Hold on David give me one. I will not lose track, but I'm gonna have to mute and close my windows because the train's coming
Okay, no worries. Nope. Nope. Sorry
I heard wrong
downtown living uh, but
So in and and not
Having that example in front of me that that a man can show
Those emotions as far as tears and sadness or grief or whatever
I knew I knew outside of my bedroom
It was I I felt I was never told this but I felt based on what was demonstrated to me
I
Felt that I wasn't allowed to do that. I wasn't I wasn't allowed to shed tears
And and and less pain was involved, you know, there's a punishment there was um
You know, there I'm now uh suffering the consequences of my choices or my actions. That's the only time tears were
acceptable
and
Now when I look back at it there there were
so
many nights and and I um, I actually haven't talked about this much on on our platform. I've talked to jenna about it
Several times if not quite a bit but part of my ptsd has to do with my
Um
Abandonment and neglect issues that I didn't even know existed until therapy
With my mom and I can't tell you how many nights where our home
You know with my dad and my brother and I it was it was chaotic
It was madness
And my mom's a church
You know, she that was her drug of choice
Wow
Her her her drug her escape
was that church building and that microphone and that piano and
I can't tell you how many nights that I I literally sat at the end of my bed and um,
if I could uh
Mentally draw a picture of my bedroom
You know, so if I'm if I'm sitting on my bed, there was a
Closet on the other side of my bed and at the foot of my bed was a
A window and I would sit at the foot of my bed on those
nights and like
as a little boy just like
Alling and wanting to know why my mom isn't there
Why why do I have to go through this?
Hmm. Why do I have to do this?
Hmm
Where where is she in this and why isn't she present because she was always
Typically was it was always the one in the house that would stick up for me and would
Take the whether it's verbal lashings or whatever would would step in the middle and and take that but the
The longer the years went by and time went by
I
Had less and less of that she was there more and more she was doing these other ministries more and more and it was why why
Why are you choosing to leave me here?
you know
You know the climate here
and you you know
You know how bad this is and you make this decision to do your drug
and and
Escape this while I still have to live here and I still have to experience this and
And yes that fucking sucks man
That fucking sucks when you're feeling that in the only place
That you can feel those emotions and shed those tears
and I
How many times I I punched a wall punched my bed punt like and feel all of those
things
Is when you're alone
That's not healthy
That's not okay
You know so for
Any mom or dad that's out there if
You listen to this tonight or later you stumble upon this don't do that
Don't do that let let your kids feel all the feels not just the ones that you want them
To feel that you the most beneficial or or are going to impact them
Long term let them feel all of those things. Let them experience
All of all of those things because it it will eventually make them a more well-rounded
More thoughtful and a more loving
Person because when you stymie those things and you inhibit those things
Man
Man
I'll just I'm the I'm example number one
They build up right they build up and you
You you you help to develop a a giant asshole
Well
The thing is
You've gone through a lot like you like you said you felt tasted heard at all seen at all
But from what I can tell you're a fucking awesome person now and that's why we have you on
deep drinks is because
People want to know like how did you go through through that rough childhood parents in ministry?
How did you then deconstruct your faith?
um
What was the process of that like how did how did you go?
How did you not how did you survive it? The reason this is called the survival guide to deconstructing is because
like
It's not an easy thing to deconstruct number one number two. It's not an easy thing to deconstruct
There's not an easy thing to go through what you went through. So so how did you do it?
What was the process like for you? How did you become?
How did you become the person that jenna?
Love so dearly, you know like you you're from what I can tell you a good person. So how did how did that happen?
um, well, jenna, I just I just said I said hi
That's an inside joke she'll get it but um, okay
but uh
What to kind of give you because I don't think you and I have uh spoke about this so to give you kind of the
briefly
How after after yes, just to I just need to interject quickly
I'm trying really hard to keep it on track not really hard to keep it on track, but
Every time we do talk we just we're fucking like a house on fire. We're talking we're making quips
We're laughing we're joking stuff and I know that we can definitely do that. So I'm I'm glad
Hey, man, we're 40 minutes through and we've we're stuck on your story. We're not making you know, awesome. So
Uh, I apologize to anyone in the future if the alcohol kicks in and we just go off totally off topic
That's what might happen. That's what we do in deep drinks, but please all's continue
Yeah, no, it's it's all good, uh
to uh to lead up to that so um
So like I said 12 13 years old, uh, that that that rebellious angry hateful teenager started started to rear
Rear his ugly asshole self
and um
I
Want to say was about
18 19 years old is when I was uh, fully like like
Introduced to cocaine and when I say fully introduced like had
A lot at all times sit in front of me and uh
I
I started off selling it
and
Was making great money and making moves and doing all this and
Shout out to the the the notorious one notorious bi g
You know, he said it in a 12 crack crack commitments on his album never get high on your own supply
and
That is a rule in the streets that uh, if that's the lifestyle that you choose, please listen to what the man said
Because as soon as you embark on thinking that you can
balance
selling and using
And not just using but then becoming addicted
uh, you find yourself and and a lot of problematic situations and
I
I went from a recreational user to
Eventually having about an eight ball right around an eight ball a day habit. That's a lot
for those that don't know that that's
That's a lot of powder. Um
And
September 13th of two thousand and two
So my birthday is september 19th
september 13th
Kind of a pre-celebration
Uh, about was three four or five of my buddies took me up
And we were I was still living in Columbus, Ohio at the time and there they have 24 hour bars
Like they never close they just keep going and going and going
And we went and we were at that bar for damn near 24 hours
And
I was on about a two
two to three week cocaine bender at that point and what I mean by bender is
no sleep no food just cocaine and alcohol and
I I had this really wonderful idea
That
Uh, when I walked out of the bar when we when we walked in it was dark
And when I walked out the sun was very very brightly shining and that's my last memory
of that day
and
I had this really brilliant idea that I I drive better when I'm intoxicated and and
Uh, binged out for three weeks because that you know, that's what all of us addicts think
um
It's that I'll I'll saying your best thinking editor you up in jail or rehab or whatever, you know, yeah
Nice, you know, and I see you yeah
But uh, I did I I attempted to drive home and I was
actually getting on the freeway
and
Obviously, I I passed out. I died. I have no recollection but the the the witnesses and the dump truck
Driver that hit me said I was already coming off the exit doing between 65 and 70 miles an hour
already just getting off the exit
And I'd already passed out. He ended up t boning t boning me and slamming my vehicle up into
a concrete divider
and
it uh, it
Broke my shoulder shattered my shoulder blade
Uh, and for those in the medical field, you know, the shoulder blade is like I think they say it's like the second or third
Most difficult bone to breaking your body
And if you were to see the x-ray literally looked like somebody just took a pane of glass and dropped it on concrete
It was just shattered
Uh, and that's why if you ever meet me in real life
And if I put my arms up like this arm will go all the way up this arm
Doesn't go nearly as far up because it's permanently dislocated from that because I didn't have insurance
I couldn't have surgery to repair everything
um
Ah jays that's such a foreign concept for
me
And that's a whole nother topic, but uh
Well, I promise I promise that when we do meet in real life because I'm sure that I'm gonna like next time you run a
Better conference or something. I'm gonna have to try and fly to america
I promise I won't try and give you a double high five when we we made
We can't as long as you keep it right here
Yeah, I had broke I had broken every single rib on my left side
basically everything uh from like my
My waist up had been shattered
Fucked up. Uh, I had collapsed my lung. All my ribs were broken. Um, they thought I had brain damage
They had uh, I was resuscitated twice
uh once
Once in the ambulance and then once uh once I arrived to the icu
So all right, you you can imagine how again traumatic that is now that one is 100 percent my own doing obviously
uh
And being an idiot and you know an addiction
Doing what addiction does is taking you down
a
A fucked up path, you know with a with a fucked up ending more times than not
But when I look back at it now
It it was it's even crazier to think about because when I did begin to
Uh
Gain some consciousness and some awareness and and laying in the icu the the first thing that happened
Like the first time I I kind of started to come around. I remember I woke up and my body was in shock
Like because of the the amount of pain and everything that happened all the broken bones and yadda yadda yadda
I couldn't I couldn't move. I literally thought I was paralyzed
and
That particular time that that I kind of came to or woke up
There was no doctor no nurse no family. It was just me
In that room and I couldn't
Like I was trying to move and I couldn't move. I didn't know where I was at. I didn't know why I was there
um, oh jeez
And I'm trying to and I can't I look I can't move
And I remember in that moment because this is what I was taught
And this is what I was told I remember praying I said god if I can get up out of this bed and walk
I will never do this again
Wow, I will never ever do this again and
It was shortly after that uh nurses and my family came in and that that's actually
It was shortly after that I coded out again, and it was quite a while after that that that I had
I had consciousness and and the ability to to have and retain, you know memory, but uh
I remember that and then after the second time coding out
And when when there's some type of, you know, uh
Rational whatever's hitting me all I know is now I'm surrounded not just by
Nurses and or doctors, but my now now my family is there and you know in full presence
And yes, I'm grateful that they're there then they love me enough to be there, you know
But some of the first things that I remember hearing is
Oz
The the only reason you're still here
The only reason you're still alive god spared your life because he has a plan
And for you and you have a destiny to fulfill and you you have a purpose to
To achieve and in in that moment in the moments following that
I'm 22 years old 23 whatever it was, uh
One I'm still young and dumb. I'm still figuring shit out. I I have a son that's not even a year old yet
I
Or maybe a little over a year, but like I'm
You want to talk about traumatic and now I'm trying to figure out what do I do?
What is the best thing for me for my family for my son?
And I and I'm constantly being told that it you know that this is the reason you're here
You you have this purpose you had and and as soon as I left that hospital
You know if there's
Well, the one thing the wreck did was save me from addiction because I I am now officially scared to death of any foreign substance
that has any type of
addictive traits
or
capabilities I
I literally if I if I go to
a party or
Or which I very rarely do anymore, but if I go to a party or a bar or a club and I even hear a mention of
Cocaine or anything similar to like a upper which is what what?
My my choice drug was I run man. I'm like I'm out. I'm out. That shit almost killed me, you know
But I
immediately
I didn't just go dab my toe in the pool of religion and Christianity again
I jumped in
Both feet like I did a fucking cannonball like yeah, like if you think about uh, um
What's what's the the the kids baseball?
Sandlot or he's like can in ball that that was that was
I haven't seen it, but I can think about it. I can think I can understand it
The chubby kid and he's jumpy. He's like cannonball. That was me into religion after that
and
as as much as
Like uh, people know that whether it's late night streams that I do
with reviewing content or DJing or
or freestyling or it's you know interviews
The the late night like that's always been me
even even before youtube was a thing
and
It was like I would spend like 24 hours just reading romans and breaking down romans
Reading Corinthians
breaking down Corinthians
and and I
That's just the way my brain works. I went again black and white thinking when I jump in I
I go all the way in so
So now I've been
I was I was indoctrinated born into it now. I'm re indoctrinated into it
and
Now not only is there this quote-unquote re indoctrination, but now I owe
Someone something because they saved my life
And
Now you couple that with the sphere of hell
And it's like I I I now feel like I'm
Well, they would say in the prison system state property, but I I felt like I was god property
Like you you're saving from from you're saving me from hell and now you've literally saved my physical life. I I'm I am
God property like I am not my own as Paul said I'm a dead man walking
And
What else am I to do with this life, but then
Or I'm sorry, but but to pursue
this then
uh
did
Did you feel like my brain in that situation my brain?
Well, and I've got no OCD like I mentioned, but my brain would go to
If I move even slightly off the path of god's will for my life. In fact, I'd be statistic this anyway
I'm dead like I'm
I'm I'm dead or something might happen or I might not be protected
In I used to in ministry colleges to say cover by the blood cover by the blood cover the blood
So we did risky things go cover by the blood cover the blood
um
Did you feel like when you
Because you kind of made that promise to god
Uh, do you did you feel like that if you ever maybe stopped attending church or maybe stopped doing what you felt?
called to do that you were dead or
God would remove protection or something
Wait, the the last thing you just said is probably the best way to
Explain it or
Put a light on it is I was I was terrified
If I didn't do
A, B or C exactly the way I was supposed to do A, B or C
all of a sudden like the
The the hedge of protection
Uh, yeah, would be lifted or removed or um, you know what have you and and yeah, so I I lived
Yes, I I lived a life always worried about fucking up
I did every day every fucking day every decision I made
Um
It was constant anxiety
And in am I doing or saying the right thing? You know, and uh, am I am I following this or pursuing this thing?
Because they they're all telling me that god has like god has ordained me and
Like like spared my life because I have this this crazy calling or or destiny and you know after that I had
I can't tell you how many pastors and prophets that
You know preach prayed even prophesied over me that like I was going to be
Uh similar to the apostle paul
And that I was going to be one that that travels the world and helps to plant new churches and grow new churches and
blah blah blah blah blah and I'm like
I I never signed up for that
I don't even know what that fucking means
But because I feel like he's saving me from hell and he saved my life
I I feel like I have to to act
accordingly
And behave accordingly, you know and be the this best christian that that I know
How to be and you know, so there there was there there was
I will say about nine
nine years ten years
After that, um going into my my thirties where it was a relentless pursuit
and
That that's it's in that time frame really that I really became
More knowledgeable of the you know the bible and text and theology and doctrine and and those things and and just started taking more
More classes on it and and studying
uh and
I'll say this real quick because it's it's really not that pivotal of a moment
But but now and when I look back at it it did it it did
Because there's there's these there's the little things that if think about like uh somebody's windshield on the car
Like sometimes you just get a little like like like a little pebble hits it and it starts off
Where you can just see the little mark where the pebble hits it, right? But then eventually that thing starts to spread
Yeah, the the the the shatter effect or whatever you want to call it like the the the thing starts to to get bigger
um
The the the pastor
Of the church that I that I was at that not only was my pastor, but uh was one of my
Christian mentors and he taught the classes that I went to
He was one of those that you know prayed or prophesied
over
Over me and even prophesied over our hip-hop group by the way our christian hip-hop group, but um
He
found himself smack dab right in the middle of a sex scandal
And
Wait like was he a participant participant in a sex scandal?
Accused
accused yes, uh and
all
for
For for time and staying on top of call. I'll just say yes, uh accused
when um
When that happened and now when I look back at it, I was like god damn man, all the evidence was there, but because
Formerly the the same pastor had the entire church for those that wanted to do this
They they had like this um
they they literally like
Created or purchased like this like like it looked like an ancient ancient scroll
And
You signed your name on that scroll if you were committing yourself to
That house and that oh
that's so
It's fun and cringe at the same time like
It's crazy, bro. It's fun. It's it's fun crazy. So that's the same pastor, right? So
um
And I saw the song I might have them. I don't think it's on this computer, but I actually wrote a song
like in my
Again, my my mom is a christian artist was a very
Like front lines of the battle like spiritual warfare. She was that artist, right? Yeah, and
obviously that bled into my
My writing my music because that's my mom
When I was doing christian hip-hop and
I remember I I'd even written a song like in defense
Of our pastor at that point because I was like this
This is bullshit part of it. Now. It's like did you say bull who hard something like did you say like you bet you bet
You're gushed on rear end
And
I look back at that and it's like oh that's laughable because all the evidence was there
So the reason I bring that up is because I view that now in retrospect as that first little pebble that hit the windshield
Yeah, it's not until now that I realized what that
What that did to the way I asked questions
And the way I started to
view
Christian leadership
So it was the pastor's sex scandal that kind of was that first pebble, right? Yep. Okay. Yeah, because here's
Because I started to learn after that that what why am I?
Why am I putting men on a pedestal?
Why am I putting humans on a pedestal because they are not god
Hmm
Which we'll get into the god part here shortly, but
That that started to
Already caused me to change the way that I thought and ask questions and I did I didn't even know what the word
I mean, I knew of the word skeptic or skeptical back then
But I didn't understand it and it's in its application the way I use it today
But now looking back at it, I did that that was the first thing that because it hit home, right?
that shit hit home that landed on my front porch and
It made me start to doubt
What the people that I respect the most and that I think are
Supposed to be my examples
What they're doing
And versus what the bible says
And here here. I'm I'm scared to death. I'm scared to fucking death. David. I'm scared to death
I'm trying to do every goddamn thing that bible talks about because I'm scared to death
And you're called to be an apostle, right? Yeah
And and he was and like his business card is if you go to his church website, it's like he's an apostle
uh
Whatever that means
But
it's like
I'm I'm literally scared to death and I'm trying to live out and walk out this bible
The best and the most accurately that I get like the most dogmatic approach that you could possibly have
meanwhile
You're coaching and teaching and mentoring me and you're out here banging
You're out here banging
Yeah, bro. Come on. I know
And it it sent my head into a
whirlwind
I don't understand people who can't be dogmatic with religion. I don't I don't personally understand it
I was I was a little bit like you where I I didn't
The second half of your life. I don't know how people could be like, oh, yeah
There's a heaven and there's a hell and most of my family and friends are gonna be burning in hell forever
but
Oh, do you want to family guy like I don't know how
Someone that isn't like panics and like not panic, but like trying to do everything they can to
You know, this life as a doormat what you're feeling before you go and be out for life
You want to bring as many people with you?
Uh, I don't understand how people can say. Oh, I I believe this is all true and not have read the whole bible or not have read
Or not have um, you know pray, you know, it's to me. It's it's it's it makes no sense. Um
but I have to say, uh
Oh, so I'm I'm sorry, man. I I think that um was a true prophecy
I just looked up the definition of apostle and it's uh
A vigorous and pioneering advocate or supporter of a particular policy idea or cause
tang gang
That's it. Maybe that was your life's mission
tang gang
The atheist network group you're the apostle for the atheist network group. I'm the apostle us
Oh, apostle us. I we need to get you a little like popes hat
I like a popes hat and robes the next better conference if I don't see you on stage is like apostle us
I'm gonna lose it. That's we need to get someone onto that now. That's like that's that's an important thing we need to do
That's that's uh, it's a calling, you know
genetic, uh, jenny q up, uh q up the new um visuals and the new marketing material
Yeah, it's so good apostle hashtag apostle us
Jesus
So that's so good. If someone if someone photoshopped a photo of us in the popes outfit. I will um
Retweet the shit out of that a hundred percent. Um
Okay, um
so
so, uh
There's so many things there's so many tangents. I I do
I was gonna save this for the end, but let's have a fun aside
Who are your favorite? Who are the best christian rappers? I need to know like I've got I've got my camp
But I need to know who you think the best christian rappers are and I'm not talking like
You know dc talk or someone who you're like. Oh, yeah, they're also christian. I'm talking about like
crazy
like
people
Hold on hold on and again jenny will get this you explain the chat
I a window he he
He just said dc talk
I don't get it. Did you hear that? No, uh windows windows. Uh, he replaced god
Um, that's my ordinary friend that I talked to when I'm
Apple by what someone says, uh
My favorite well, let's say so i'll give you my first like two two or three like actual like seriously my favorite
Christian hip-hop partisan and the three that I think are just like why the fuck did anybody let you into it?
My my all-time favorite is uh, Emmanuel Lambert or his stage name is the truth
Hey, uh, I felt like he he revolutionized christian hip-hop as far as
About the same time that jz's like blueprint album
Um, a little bit before that what was banging off. He was a shit
Uh, and then uh, the other is someone that uh, hopefully here in the future. We're gonna have on our
Uh on on tang tang gang and that's fanatic from cross movement
He he and one other gentleman were the the founders of cross movement, which
uh, if
I haven't heard these names for so many years
The the best dynamic and cross movement they would be like the original
either, um
Wu Tang clan or
Or or uh, um, no limit. They'd be no limit. Yeah, Wu Tang depending on who you're listening to
Uh, be that and then um number three
I
Probably a lot of people even christians probably aren't familiar, but the dude is ridiculous mars ill
Uh, it was a christian hip-hop artist that dude is I don't know if he's still writing today
But that dude lyrically was a fucking
genius
genius, um
As far as the other ones that should have never uh stepped in a booth or
Oh, I'm hoping I'm hoping you're not gonna say who my favorite one is go go
Uh, first of all, if uh, if you've ever heard of t-bone, um, just
Uh, just throw that shit in the trash and and do do actually do an official church burning like burn
That shit to the ground. It's it's all shit. You don't want to hear
Uh, the the other one that uh, he was a complete make believe christian hip-hop artist
What I mean by that is he just bit and bit and bit and robbed and robbed and robbed and stole
From an artist that we know is slim shady m&m or marshal mathers is kj5
Kj5 too, right? Yeah, get the he had that one good one two good songs this slim part one part two. They were okay, right, but
No, you don't reckon ah come on. They were right
As far as the christian rap goes like, you know
You're scraping the bottom of the bar like you're already starting at such a low point like
I said I said it's like my romance and nursery rhymes. It doesn't make sense
Not my romance nursery rhymes or christian hip-hop. It's like what like yeah, you keep going
Yeah, I I told you I started the bottom of the barrel like they should have never even been introduced in the studio
No, it was all right. I disagree
We will agree to disagree
Uh
in the
See the the the third one would be tough, but the the third one
Oh, please
Oh, this one's tough
But the third one and I don't I'm gonna say this because
I think it's a joke that you try to
Or anyone would try to bounce back and forth between christian hip-hop
Secular hip-hop christian hip-hop secular hip-hop
And god damn it mace shut the fuck up
Oh, okay. Okay. I don't I don't know who that is
Yeah, just so who are you who are you thinking?
cray
le cray
How did you not mention le cray triply?
um
Hold on when I when I you you asked me you gotta remember I'm thinking
I'm not thinking hype. I'm I'm thinking lyrical abilities. Oh, yeah
Tripp le cray and tripp are legit like they're they're the ones that the uh, if they were secular hip-hop they're they're
They're writing and creating those like club bangers like they're not lyrical
geniuses, right?
Hard to disagree
I
Have you heard the album rebel don't waste your life like that song don't waste your life
It's insane. I probably listen to it on repeat eight thousand times. I know exactly dude
Oh, I'm gonna have to start listening to again. I get saved then then uh
Then what then what would you say? Oh jesus?
Now I I really liked le cray um for a few years
I loved his rebel album rehab and stuff
I think it was because he was unapologetically christian
He didn't he didn't just sprinkle it in but he was like quoting bible scriptures and you know being so and what I like about him now is he's um
You know, he does videos on like blm and and things like that with obviously
it's it's quite a
Christians are usually quite against blm and they're quite right-wing and things where he he kind of
Well, he's blacking himself, but like it's kind of like
He seems to he seems to be this is so hard because I do this with a lot of christian people but
He's good. He's the best of a bad bunch in my own regards to like his opinions
I think like he's not he's not brain dead like um some of the people who are
really popular
So, yeah, I like it. Yeah, and yeah for the record like even to
Even up to today
I'm a fan of the cray and trip simply because
Not not only are they great at the at the art
I'm out of the fuck the content with the tongue with it. They are great at the art and not only that
They're like they're awesome humans
They're awesome people and you know, we and we probably won't have time to get into but when we had our
um our christian hip hop group
There there was several of those guys that we got to open up for and we got to meet and
And get to know and there there's some of them that there
There's some of them that I named our giant fucking assholes
and um
I would say that to their face and there's other ones
Uh in and uh the truth Emmanuel Lambert being one of them. They not not only they great at what they do
They're just
Cool fucking people. Yeah people so
That's cool. That's cool. Um
so
Regarding your back on track as I pull myself some more more whiskey
um
As you're deconstructing your faith, maybe we can move to the part where like
What were the you we've we've had the crack now, but what was the
How did you start to process your deconstruction?
Yep, and uh, I will apologize. I can be long-winded uh
Getting to this
I
I
So after after that crack in the windshield I I I had I had several years where like I'm still going to church
and doing this things, but I wasn't nearly as
um
Should I say involved
You know as far as like being part of this ministry being part of this ministry or whatever, you know
But but I was I was still doing the good christian thing and going to church and showing up and yeah, you gotta
uh
and my
My brother had launched his church here in fort Wayne and
I was the christian anti christian at that point where it was
I don't
I was in that phase was like I don't need a church building
I don't need a pastor to be a christian
I can pray and believe in my own home and blub blub blub right like all that shit right and
My brother had reached out to me and said bro
I don't have a sound guy
And we're getting ready to launch
You know in week two weeks, whatever it was
I know you don't like church
But will you come and just help me as your brother because I need a sound guy
And I was like, you know what?
I'll do that for you
Here's the caveat
Let all your peoples know
That when I show up, I'm gonna have my pack of cigarettes
I'm I'm I'm still gonna be me and if one of them pops off. I will call them out in a heartbeat
So just
Give you give that warning shot. Let let him know
Just a side note. The my favorite thing is is your sass. I love how fucking sass your eyes awesome
It makes me laugh so much. I love it so much
I love it so much
Thank you
And the uh quick side point the the the first service that we had uh, and I did it deliberately
We we had like this this, um
Fold out a foldable table whatever that the sound
That was our sound booth. Was it like a foldable card table and uh, I put the
The case with the sound board shown there and I threw my pack of new ports on the table
Like just as a I wish a motherfucker would
Yeah, yeah, you know
And uh, one of the one of the guys that was like one of the ush
ushers ushers, whatever
Went and my brother told me this like later that week or whatever, but he he went up to my brother. He's like, um
They call him pk. His name is kyle. So pastor kyle pk for sure. Uh pk
Okay, um
Should should I ask your brother to maybe put his cigarettes like in his pocket?
Or like in one of the bags that he has like should should I do that and and kyle was like nope. Nope
Don't
Don't say a word
Right where it's at. But anyway, that's yeah, they shouldn't have they should have just quite a roman's full three where it says
They'll shut on smoked arts. That's what it says. So that's that's verbatim
That that's a funny side point. But anyways, so I started there
and the more I was there
and the more love bombing
That I received the more I felt myself like I missed this community thing
and I missed this embrace
and
I you know, I've never really played like even when I played sports and I never I never did like
Solo single sport like it was always a team thing. I've always I've always appreciated that team dynamic and building together
and
That started to draw or woo me, you know back
And next thing, you know, I go from just running sound and being the the the the angry christian anti
You know organized religion christian to where now all of a sudden I'm I've went full circle again and now I'm fully involved and
Now I'm the full-time drummer
And now I'm the full-time drummer you fast forward a little more
I'm overseeing all the I am the small group leader like I'm overseeing all the small groups
I'm now an assistant youth leader director whatever it was
Uh, I'm speaking at any of the
inner city
Outreaches that we do
anything that had to do with uh
those suffering with
Addiction or homelessness or what like, uh, I was often not all the time
But often called upon because of now my background of my story to
Be one that that speaks and and so on and so forth
Uh
And it was it was a good oh man
I don't even know how many years that that I was and I was the only drummer
Right and the the reason I'm emphasizing that now it's I'm a built into
What so we we talked about the pebble and the windshield and now what really started to
Shatter or or uh start to really punch holes in that that that windshield or
um
Wall of faith so to speak
As a drummer
Especially a adhd drummer
I don't I didn't I do now, but I didn't I didn't
necessarily pay attention to the words of the music
Because my responsibility
Is to worry about the twos and the fours because as a drummer if I'm not consistent everything gets fucked up
Right and every every time I practice at home by myself even you know with the team
it's
And I have a twos and fours twos and fours twos and fours and there happened to be
Thank you god
there happened to be
This sunday it which was a
Rare it may have been the only time that I remember this happening. I didn't have to play drums
I didn't have any small group responsibilities. I didn't have any youth group responsibilities like like nothing
It may may have been the one and only time that that ever happened
And church starts
And now as the drummer that never paid attention
The small groups director that never paid attention
Literature I start to listen to the words of this music
And I was like hold on hold on this isn't in the book y'all
What are we talking about the the next song played
And I literally remember feeling myself like start to you know you you when you're getting frustrated
Mm anxious at the same time like your body like you start to like tighten up and flex
So to speak I felt my body. It was like, well, what are we doing?
How did I not know this and part of me was like I felt irresponsible
Because here I've been playing drums to this shit for fucking years
And never really paying attention
And I'm like this shit's on the bible then the third song final song they played
I'm like this shit for sure is nowhere in this book
What what was it?
Oh, it was it was well, I think you and I kind of joked about this uh before it was almost like love making to god
Like there was no
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm in love with you. Yeah that kind of stuff. Yeah
Yeah, I I I want to rub you or love you or you know what and I'm exaggerating right now
Just this weird shit where it was like this isn't in the book man
And my mom
Was a former praise and worship but like
She she drilled proverb
Psalms and Proverbs in uh song and Proverbs into my brother's head
This shit's
This shit's not there. What what what are we doing? And then I remember
my brother got up
They did you know ties and offering all that and I don't remember what the the the exact scriptures
were that he used
And
I I know I know I know I do know my brother one of he would he would never get up and just purposely like
share
Like like bullshit and try to build
things upon
Bad ice of jesus right like he he wouldn't go out of his way to do that
But he he shared a scripture then shared another scripture
And it was like a smack in the face. It was like
And I was like hold on hold on hold on hold on bro
You shared this but what about this scripture?
And
And then there was one more he shared towards the end of that sermon and I was like
Oh man
What
David what why why what
Why why are we doing that? Why are we putting band-aids on band-aids?
Why why are we
Reading into this text what we wanted to read instead of talking about what it actually says and
I made a commitment to myself
That day because I have no other responsibilities when I leave here today
I'm going to go buy a brand new bible that doesn't have my highlights and my notes
And all all the shit from my indoctrination
And all that in there. I'm going to go buy and I'm going to start
From the beginning
And I'm going to do the best that I can do to get through this and read it
With the removal of the lenses of indoctrination
Of christian uh christian apologetics and and so on and so forth
I barely got out of
Numbers
Maybe a little further but barely got out of numbers and I'm already
My my brain is already melting
because now
Because now I'm not it's it's not
I'm not applying all this bias where it's like I'm not just reading the
I'm not just reading the bible and then books written by biblical
uh theologians or
Historians so they call themselves
But now I'm starting to compare and contrast it to those from the other side and I'm like
whole fuck
And and I would be a liar to say I wasn't scared to death
Because now you're fucking with everything that I've been taught
And
The uh kind of the final uh knockout to give it a fast forward. So that happened. It was about a year two years after that
Like I I didn't say anything to anyone
about where I was at and my questioning and all this skepticism and
I was scared to death to say anything to anyone
And then
my uh now ex-wife the the mother of my children we we were going through our divorce
and
I'd got an apartment here downtown not the one I'm at now, but uh a different one and
This was the this was the the the mike tyson knockout punch like
All the all the walls all the faith all the bullshit crumbled
I'm I'm trying to
uh pursue truth
and uh
I want to believe more truth things than not and uh, oh that's a bad sign. You shouldn't do that as a christian
First
You fucked up. You should just believe in your heart have faith
God just wants to love people etc
Absolutely, and this is where this is usually where the story ends uh
is
I was I was sitting it was it was a
It was a sunday evening
And I was uh, it wasn't alive. It was uh recorded
versions, but there was a
An episode of the atheist experience that I had stumbled upon and
And again, remember it's still that like I I'm
I am to the best that I can with all this indoctrination and still fearing that this god may have saved my life
and trying to save me from like I'm still scared as fucking hell, right and
There was a there was three colors there. There was the first one the middle one had nothing to do with it and
Then a third caller called in uh and quickly and I'll wrap this up the first one called in
and they
They talked about hosa. I think it's hosa 11 and they said
You know
Well the caller called in Matt Dill honey brought up hosa 11 where the the child's head is uh smashed upon
the stone and
the unborn babies are
ripped out of the mother's wombs and
There's other atrocities in there and I
David I remember like it was yesterday. I remember I was like I hit my space button. I was like
pause pause this dude is full of shit
This is not in the bible
He is making this shit up
This is bullshit. So what do I do? I I have my my little niv
I open my bible
I go to the scripture reference that matt had provided
And and again, I'm by myself in my apartment. I hold up. I read it. I'm like
fuck
Fuck
Fuck and and I remember I hit the I hit the space button again to play
And there was a caller after that one and like I said that that one wasn't meaningful or impactful on that
But then the next caller
The next caller called in
And matt did what one one of his one of his best arguments as far as the way he approaches it
Uh, he went straight to exodus 21
Uh, yeah
And I had never heard that preached
I had never heard that talk who would preach that who would preach that
No, no one. Yeah, right. Yeah, exactly. And and I remember like
David I remember in my living room in my apartment my one bedroom apartment
Again, I'm you you would have thought that after the first one I would have learned my lesson
But after that one I'm like fuck this dude this ballheaded motherfucker. He just
He just I know
I know so many people who like
Who like the first time I show him like yeah, like no, I don't agree with him
He's he's an arrogant asshole and whatever I'm going. Oh, well, do you want to talk about the scriptures? No
No, he's uh
I was like this boy. He just fucking hates god
He just hates god. Dude. This is not again. Remember I already said this
About the first one
This shit's not in the book this I've never read this shit in the bible
I've never saw this shit in the bible. So again, I hit the space bar
I pause it and I go to exodus 21 and I I read it
two times
And it was at the end of the second time
The everything fell apart
everything apart because
I had to ask myself is is this
Is this what I'm believing in
Is this what I'm aligning with
And and and not only that that's the the most fucked up part
But am I willing to
Attribute my life to
Give my life to sacrifice my life for
You're sacrificing humanity. Yes, just for those who don't know exodus 21 talks about slavery
How you can own slaves you can beat them as long as they don't die within a few days
And how you can keep them forever if you drive it all through their ear and
Keep away their family from them. Yeah
right and
Do I do I want to dedicate my my my life to that and do I want to represent that?
As someone where majority
Of my friends are are not me. They're they're
Not cis white 40 year old males
You know, do I want to
First and foremost represent that and do it. Is this what I want to teach my kids?
Is this what I want to pass along
to my children is this type of hate and bigotry
and
just shitting on
Other humans for what god?
Right and I remember like it was
yesterday
I sat back because I was on my sofa. I sat back on my sofa and I was like, that's it
I I
There's no good reason to believe this
There's no good reason
to align with this
because any god any religion
Any whatever that's going to promote this
and
Justify this I want nothing to do with
I want nothing to do with and that's that that's when
Oh, I'll wrap that up for a more on a more humorous
note, but that's when the atheist asshole was born
That was my that was my original screen name. It was not it was my childhood nickname
It was when I came out that was I was the atheist asshole because I was like fuck all of you
But yeah, that's that's when everything fell apart, bro
It was all by myself and my apartment and you know, hosea 11 and x's 21
Being shared like that, which I'd never heard
Fucked my entire world
it's um
I feel like everyone goes through when they first become an atheist they go through um
what I like to call a um
that like it's like not like debate bro, but it's like um
Edge lord atheists atheists like there's like an edge lord atheist days
You go through like two years of being an edge lord atheist
We're like you like love to like snicker it like religious people and like quote things like it takes a good man
Do good things and a bad man do bad things but for a good man to do bad things that takes religion and just stuff like that
You're like, yeah, yeah atheist edge lord. Yeah, I feel like everyone goes through that because you're told this lie, right?
Like you told this thing and then
What's more frustrating and this is I'm not sure if you dealt with this yourself, but
You're like, okay, like there's some subjects in the bible talk about slavery. We believe in the god of the bible
therefore
either the bible is wrong
or
Like it's not accurately representing god or
We should own slaves either way i've got to correct something and then you go talk to someone about it and then the answers
They give you a ridiculous
That was for a time
um, but also god hates uh
F slur god hates gays
That wasn't for a time
But slavery was for a time
You know, um divorce was for a time, you know, we're forgiven
It was I had a lady who'd been divorced like three times I lived with and she's she was getting married
She didn't get married to a Nigerian prince and she lost like hundreds of thousands of dollars legitimately
And when I asked her about divorce she said no because on the cross Jesus said it is finished and then I was like
Okay, and then I was like but
but like you told me to throw out my
Video game that had witchcraft in it. It was the skyrim expansion
I literally snapped this brand new game that I hadn't threw it out because it had
magic in it and I'm like this is interesting. So for me, it's
So frustrating and I'm sure you experienced this where
The pick we go to to talk to about this this shit that's in the bible give you the most
dog shit
non answers or
Oh the other thing um, oh women not having authority over a man and not speaking in church and shutting the fuck up and only talking to their husbands
That was for a time. That's not for now
Joyce Meyer amen praise the lord. Oh look at her beautiful
Um plastic surgery ridden face. It's praise be the lord like do you know what I mean?
Like it's the battlefield of the mind and then you're like, okay, so can gays get married? No
No, that's not god destined to be a male and if you were fuck off like you homophobic
Racist bigoted smooth brain knuckle dragging piece of shit
Like this is you're not preaching the bible anymore
You're preaching your own morals that you pick and choose what by biblical morality you'd like to be used with
Fuck normally i'm ranted like 40 minutes in when i've had some alcohol
Obviously that rants at like an hour and a half. So
It's a bit more spicy than normal, but yeah
And let me uh, no because now now you're gonna now you're just gonna you're gonna tee me up. So this is
This is what i'll say. Maybe they're they're
I don't give a fuck
And let me let me make sure i'm clear don't give a fuck what time frame
What cultural time frame what period of life or period of history that that someone may or may not have grown up in
Or and or experienced, uh, I don't I don't care
Where you come from
Owning people's property is fucked
Owning humans as property is fucked
And if you want to defend that and you want to dial on that hill
I'll meet you at the top of that hill and i'll crucify you
No os you're mistaken. It's just i'm i'm owned by my employer
I didn't fuck your employer
Obviously it's not the same
It's like people like to say like oh, yeah, I i'm a slave to my employees like no, you're not you can quit
You don't you don't like
No, that's what i mean by that. Well, fuck. Yeah walk away. Yeah, exactly. You don't you don't have to be there
Yeah, these these people didn't have a goddamn fucking choice, man. Mm
That is ownership
Of a human and against property don't care
What what your cultural norms were way way way back in the day? Yeah, still does not mean owning a human as property
Is acceptable
That is okay. Fuck you and second off
The the one you brought up is as far as women can't speak when they're in church
Women can't
Okay, you know what I know
Here's what I know
Jenna can speak
And she's and she's a lady and she can speak in this church
Absolutely this church absolutely and I would refer to her on most topics like I'd prefer she speaks
she
She's much more sound and elaborate than I am but
You you don't you you don't you you don't get to
Minimize someone's voice
Just because you're scared
Because you're scared that they may be smarter than you
You're scared that that their voice may be more influential
Or more powerful than you are and here is the problem with religion
And yes now i'll say not just christianity, but islam fuck both of you when it comes the way you treat women
And in trying to silence and quiet and tell them that they're not worthy and they shouldn't talk and they shouldn't speak unless you
Give them permission. Oh, that's that's cute
That that's cute because all of that is all that is
is more abusive
behavior more controlling
behavior
And you line up you you'd directly line up with the gods that you prescribe to
Is there they're gaslighting?
abusive controlling
manipulative
Assholes and that's exactly how you're performing
So congratulations, and I feel sorry for the I feel sorry for their partners and the people that they have to
Choose to spend the rest of life with because that that shit's gonna be
Uh disgusting
It's not just islam like most like islam is bad is bad like fundamentalism of most religions is bad in my opinion
um
But you know it's it's it's uh hinduism has the caste system, right?
buddhism has some shitty things as well like the
and
My understanding and I say this over and over and over again is religion is one of the most is beautiful and
amazing and and awesome and
Interesting and until you think it's true
As soon as you think it's true and these are divine things from god
It's an as you stop viewing it as like humanity's first attempt to try and
Understand the cosmos and organized society and and yeah, there's some there was some shit
That was a bit fucked up back then
Until you start saying there's like my divine commands from god that people should be separated into groups or I mean
I know that there's some apologists right now typing in the comments saying well actually the casteism
Or islam is actually god and rubra like I know there are ways to get around all this stuff
But if you take a fundamentalist perspective on these things and you go, yeah, there should be caste system. There should be
um women should be serving to men and all that stuff like
it's it's um
you're making the creator of the universe look like a
Moron not just a moron, but you're making the credible of the universe look like a
a misogynistic
Racist maniac and I'm sitting here saying
If there is a creator of the god stop teasing god, it's not okay
Like it's not cool, man
Like if there's a creator of the universe you'll do your sense and really fucked up shit about the creator of the universe
If you think the creative universe represents that of what's talked about in the bible or the koran
Holy shit. You need to back off like stop teasing the creator of the universe. All right, like
I come on the defense of the creative universe because obviously there'll be nothing
Like what's described in any of the holy texts that we currently have access to
Um, so that's my little second rant. Oh my god. I'm going many many rants today
I do want to I do want to move on though to
Advice for people like we'll go into a bit of a q&a
But we'll have some advice for people who may be deconstructing their faith and and what advice you'd give them
Um
And then I've got a few questions if anyone's got some questions make sure you pop them in the dis
In the chat and we'll get to them
But um, first of all
What advice would you give to yourself when you first started deconstructing when you first were looking at
As you as you say that person was saying the bold man on tv who was um, you know
What would you what would you say to?
to um
to yourself
Oh, well the the first one's easy therapy
Therapy therapy therapy therapy therapy therapy therapy
therapy um
Proper medical therapy too, not like your church counselor talking to you like no proper. Oh, no, no, no
Yeah, let me make this clear for for those listening. Now. Are you listen the future? Uh, we uh
And so Tang Gang, the Atheist Network Group, our YouTube channel, we have access to several,
not just secular, but atheist therapists, and they do remote sessions.
So if you, in your area, you can't find it, please, by all means, hit us up.
The email is tanggang at gmail.com.
Please, please, please, I want to send you in that direction, because if you think you're
going to get honest answers from a therapist or honest insight from a therapist that has
their own religious interest in mind, you're out of your goddamn mind.
It's not going to happen.
The biased will protrude, it will show at the end of the day.
There's a link here that Jenna put up.
That's the link.
Also, links will be in the description, I'll put them in after the fact for those people
watching.
Someone from my Discord server, who I'm friends with, MrBootleg also asked before, what about
the claims that atheist Tom Holland, by atheist Tom Holland, that Christian only helped abolish
slavery?
So they asked that before.
I would say they helped abolish, yes, it's true, it's the Jordan Peterson talking point.
There were Christians that helped abolish slavery, but they were doing that in spite
of their religion.
They were doing that in spite of Christianity.
They were doing that because they were good people, not because of anything they read
in the holy text, not because of anything Jesus said, not because of anything Moses said,
not because of anything that was written in Exodus or Numbers or Deuteronomy or Matthew
or what Paul said, they were doing it in spite of their religion.
But yes.
Stop that.
Sorry, I do not know what this is, what's in this, but it's making me extra spicy today
because I'm getting fired up.
Spicy.
But MrBootleg, I appreciate the question, and this is not directed at you, this is directed
at this narrative.
There were people that called themselves Christians that played a part in abolishing slavery.
That's awesome.
That's awesome.
I'm glad that they provided their voices and their influence to help to end that atrocity
and end that fucking bullshit.
That does not mean therefore Christianity as a whole did anything because we still know
that not only did the Bible endorse, yes, endorse, but Yahweh God actually gave the commands
on how to treat the slaves, but then in the New Testament where the Christians, the New
Day Christians in 2022, love to say, well, Christ came to fulfill the law and blah, blah,
blah.
Well, actually you, I'm not going to know that, but you already fucked that up.
That's not what it says.
That's not at all what it says.
It does not say that he came to to abolish the law.
He came to fulfill the law, but he said, I did not come to abolish it, but to actually
uphold it.
And you don't get to change it.
Not one iota, not one pen stroke.
You don't get to, did the Old Testament endorse slavery?
The answer to the question is, yes.
Anyone who's interested, I recommend Dr. Josh's book.
It is, it's a breezy rate.
Look at this bad boy.
Like, it is.
I've heard that like three or four times now, I think it's amazing, but the, the, even
in the New Testament, keep this in mind, neither Jesus or Paul, and I believe that once the
New Testament kicked in and Paul came about, we're not talking about Christianity anymore.
We're talking about Paulineism, that this isn't about Christ anymore.
It's all about Paul, but neither of them, neither of them, nor Yahweh stepped on the
scene like, listen, motherfuckers, slavery is wrong.
It's done.
And if you fucking do it, you're going to burn in hell.
Like, I've done that just, just think about this.
Hold on, David.
Think about this.
Like they do with the LGBTQ plus community, they, they say you will not inherit, inherit
the kingdom of God.
Why the fuck did Yahweh, Jesus or Paul not say, not only will the LGBTQ plus community
not inherit the kingdom, but if you are a slave owner or if you promote slavery, you will also
not inherit the kingdom of God.
Why the fuck was that left out?
They don't, they don't say that.
They, they literally, like, so, so, all right, I'm talking to God right now.
And I'm like, God, the God of the Bible, is it okay if I, when my nation rapes and pillages
and pillages, let's say pillages a nation, that I take the Virgin girls for myself?
Is that okay?
As a New Testament Christian.
Yes.
Okay.
So once I've taken the Virgin girls for myself, can I, and I've kept them as slaves, there
is, as long as they're not Hebrews, do I own them for life?
Yes.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
All right.
Now, next subject.
I'm not sure I'm too into my wife, but this is dude down the road named John and I kind
of love him.
Is that okay?
No.
Right.
Okay.
I just wanted to get those two things clear.
So take the Virgin girls, rape, rape and pillage, take the Virgin girls, take, keep
them for yourself.
Loving someone of the same sex?
No.
Bad.
Naughty.
Cool.
I mean, oh, geez, um, I, I, I, I have some, some fun questions for you.
Okay.
So what is the most plausibly true religious worldview that you don't subscribe to?
Is that a comment?
Like I can read.
I'm better when I read.
Oh, sorry.
It's not a comment, but I'll, these are my ones that I put in.
Oh, okay.
Just, just, just say it again.
So sometimes it takes me to two or three times.
I'll add it.
I'll add the thing.
What is the most plausibly true religious worldview that you don't subscribe to?
So like, none of them.
Well, what's the most?
Well, if you had to choose one that seems the most likely to be true.
None of them.
Okay.
All right.
Fair answer.
None of them, none of them seem likely to me.
I think they're all man made fabricated bullshit.
Oh, obviously that's the case.
But if you had to, like obviously, okay.
So would you say Mormonism is more wacky than Christianity?
Cause it adds like an extra.
Oh, what's the least wacky?
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's not going to be a different way to, out of all the religions, what's the least
wacky?
Hellenism.
Hellenism.
Okay.
Cool.
All right.
Cool.
Um, this is a question I ask, uh, everyone, um, well, actually, no, I'm going to ask Mr.
Whitlick's question first.
Do you think Christian apologists ever actually take note of these criticisms?
Uh, here's where I'll draw a separation through YouTube or online Christian apologists ever
take note of these criticisms.
Absolutely fucking not, not ever, not once, never in, uh, I reckon, I reckon I'm a big
sin for Michael Jones has changed his mind on some things.
All right.
Like he may be, he may be crazy in my opinion, but he's the least crazy of a bad bunch.
Oh, hold up.
Who'd you just say?
Michael Jones is inspiring philosophy.
He's a bro.
He's on the second episode of deep drinks podcast.
You don't reckon?
That's a problem.
He's a bro.
That's a problem.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
You're talking, if you put Kent Hovan and Ken Ham and inspiring philosophy in a room,
you're telling me that they're all on equal playing field.
Inspiring philosophy is way more reasonable.
I think you, I think you're biased.
I think you're biased.
Um, I don't, I don't, I do not agree, but we can agree, but, uh, but in, in your, as
far as the, the, the folks that we've encountered day to day basis, whether it's at a local
church or a local market or whatever, would they actually take notes and listen and want
to learn from what we have to say or criticisms or critiques?
I think they do and would, but YouTubers, YouTubers fucking your social media, internet
apologists, fuck, no, they're, they're, they're egos in their, uh, uh, attachment to, to
their identities, uh, here far outweigh, far outweigh their ability to, to be, uh, objective.
Yeah, I, I, I often, I remember I, um, was, I was at work once and, um, I, uh, one of
the people there is religious and I used to go to church with them and I said, Oh, I've
actually downloaded the new, I've downloaded the audio book of the NIV.
I'm going to read the, listen to the entire NIV Bible and he goes, Oh, you're going to
give religion another chance.
I hear like he was all excited and he goes, you should become an apologist.
And I was like, why on earth would I become an apologist?
So I was like, why would I want to defend something rather than just looking for the
truth in whatever I find?
Like to me, a poll apologetics seems for a lot, most of the time, not just not because
apologetics, apologetics is not just religious, but religious apologetics for
the most of the time seems like a dishonest endeavor from the get go.
You're trying to defend something rather than looking for the truth.
Now you can probably engage with apologetics and then go away and be looking at the
truth elsewhere, but I sometimes wonder if they actually do that.
Um, uh, I just want evidence.
Yeah.
Uh, and you, I saw in the comment section, uh, I had a debate with a, um, a Muslim and
you jumped in there and you were, you have a very, it was, it was interesting in the
comment section.
If you go check out some of my previous videos on my David McDonald YouTube
channel and also just a notify and remember that if when we get to a thousand
subscribers, we are doing a charity stream.
So if you want to get us there, if you want to support this channel, um, and you
want to support charity, um, and you like this stuff, subscribe.
Um, if you don't like this stuff, then that's fine.
Um, you don't have to subscribe, but yeah, subscribe and we're going to get to
when we get a thousand subscribers, we're doing a charity stream.
So the last question, one of the last questions I'm going to ask is what, if
anything would change your mind?
Um, the, well, I know the very unpopular answer is.
I don't know because he should know or it should know whatever.
Um, but, but I've tried to simplify that and make it as elementary as possible for
me doesn't mean that applies to any one else.
And if this supreme creator, all the omnis, all the everything's.
Uh, is, is, is there an existence relevant to our day to day lives?
This is my current position anyway.
There, there is a, a book called the five love languages and Christians love this
book that eat it up because it teaches them how we, how we should communicate to
us, especially in romantic dating or marriage, like relationships, right?
And, and how we, how we understand how our partner needs to feel or hear or
know that love is being communicated because their language may be different.
There are, so we need to make sure that we understand how they communicate.
And am, am I being a, an efficient and effective communicator of my love to said person?
So if the, if there's a mere man, David, if there's a mere man that wrote this
book, that has five, five, five love languages, David, should not this God,
whether it's the Christian God, the Muslim God, the God, whatever it is, love
that God should, should, should this God that, or should this God not, or should
he or should he not have a singular love language between it and I that it knows
exactly, it knows exactly how to communicate, demonstrate, show, display, make
practical, make simple, however we want it, shouldn't it be so easy for this
supreme being, this ultimate being that, that knows it supposedly knows how many
hairs are on your head or on my head and newest before we were birth and our
mother's wombs, shouldn't it or he know that one language, that one love language
that would convince me that he or it is there and present and relevant and
willing to help me and love me and change my life wouldn't wouldn't that be
awesome but the problem is that doesn't happen and it's not there.
So until this ultimate being, creator being is better equipped to communicate
a love language to us than a human that, that wrote and communicated five
loving love language to the entire fucking globe.
Until then, fuck off.
Okay.
Wow.
This is why I love sassy apostle Oz.
Jenna actually said at the start of this stream, she said, you're responsible
for driving my man home if you're going to get toasted, sir.
I'm sorry, if you are toasted, but make sure obviously you're not driving if
you are and you know that better than anyone before we, before we end, we
want to do a bit of a lot, a bit of a, obviously a little bit of a freestyle.
But why are you doing that freestyle Oz?
Well, those who may, may know, I did a freestyle with no warning on your
channel and I fucked up real bad.
And it was because Jenna created this fucking rumor for some reason.
Who knows why Neil deGrasse Tyson knows why that I would wanted to freestyle
Oz now look, I'm not a rapper.
I don't have the flow.
I can't dance.
I can't even do those dance dance revolution machines.
I've just, I've got nothing, right?
So I thought what I would do is I needed to release a diss track.
Um, and when I was recording this, I was recording it at lunch at work.
Um, and so I had to use text to speech software, but I wrote you a little
rap and I want to give you, I want to show you the first rap dis to Oz.
And then I want you to be able to respond to that.
Uh, and you don't know about this to respond to that.
Okay.
So this is text to speech software.
So it's not the best.
All right.
It's my little rap and I'm going to try now.
This is one of two.
Okay.
This is, this is, I wrote this quickly.
All right.
Ready?
It's called rap.
Davel day does in David Davel.
Okay.
You ready?
All right.
Let's go.
Yeah.
Tang gang.
I'm here with Tang gang.
Even Queens a bitch.
Let's go.
Somebody grab me some whiskey.
He's fucking skills are tight.
Not really.
He knows I will be coming to end the fight.
This is track one.
Expect one more.
Two shots.
You'll be under the floor.
Don't be scared.
I'm still your friend.
I just needed time to pick up the pen.
So let's start with two facts.
No cap your lyrics are trash.
Go back to the comedy club or stick around and I'll feed you the smash.
Tastes tangy like amateur soup.
As it's time to flow the coupe.
You'll never be me.
My hair is thick.
My brain is juicy and I've got a large camera.
I'm sick of these baseball caps and these corny wraps.
Let's talk about it.
I'm sick of you using the same 10 verses and calling it freestyle.
Let's talk about it.
I'm calling you out from Australia dog.
How does that feel?
I'm five minutes from the beach.
You live five minutes from corn.
I feel you beef.
Don't be scared to walk away.
This battle has just started and I'm here to stay.
I feel you dog.
You've been practicing for years.
I wrote this on my lunch break.
I hope you shed no tears.
This is the end of the line.
16 bars.
Round two will be the kill shot.
You better be walking far.
Don't be sad.
The rap is done.
Now it's time to hear your puns.
You want to say I'm trying to pull up.
I'm trying to pull up.
I know you've got to nurse those wounds, get back to ICU.
I mean, that was brutal.
So I need to hear this freestyle.
I'm trying to pull up the rap devil instrumental.
That way I can go to protect.
OK.
Oh, that's terrible.
That's better.
It was hard as you want.
It was hard as you want.
You got a lot to work with here.
Hey, somebody grabs clip.
Hold on, I've got to find the one without the words.
It's hard.
No, I have it on here.
Where did I save that?
So Aunt Jer is roasting me in the comments.
Aaron said, this is why I showed up.
Oh, yeah, this is that's right.
Aunt Jer said, I just realized David looks like a grown up Eddie Munster.
Hang on a sec.
I've got to look up who that is.
No, it's because of my like part of like my.
Oh, maybe, maybe.
I mean, you said you said you had a part two.
Part two is the kill shot.
That's what that's like.
That's your that's your grave.
That's that's when that's that's the end.
That's not released yet.
But that's just like, oh, yeah, that's the next track.
That's next to that's the next one.
Months away, months away.
That's yeah.
Oh, months away.
Oh, so it's not tonight.
So you were any months to months away.
All right, here we go.
Let's get it.
I get my levels.
Hey, hey, hey.
Hey, the Quincy bitch.
Hey, hey, hey.
I'm here.
I'm here.
Tangang.
David's a bitch.
Still but a bitch.
Eddie Munster.
Monster.
I'm a monster on these tracks.
Why you would try to attack?
I'm the boss.
God damn it.
You should step back and try to floss them teeth.
Hold on.
So get my levels.
Give me a minute.
Check.
Can't hear myself.
Yeah, you sound fine.
You sound fine in this end.
I know, but I need to be able to hear me.
Oh, I didn't.
OK, there we go.
Now I get it.
Here we go.
Yeah.
What'd your boy say about he's close to a beach and I'm steps
away from corn?
Meanwhile, he thinks about me while he's looking on porn hubs
for some porn, jacking off, whacking off, thinking about the
boy OZ.
I'm his fantasy.
Yeah.
Practically, I'm in here being a distraction bee.
Yeah.
Why'd you have me on deep drinks?
Deep drinks.
I told you, I don't deep think on this podcast.
Now I made these motherfuckers not all fast.
Yeah, and I get at it when I attack it.
Yeah, I'm problematic when I get it.
Yeah.
And check the fucking heartbeat.
Check the fucking heartbeat.
Yeah.
And what's the rhythm?
What's the rhythm when I get up in them?
I spit it.
Yeah.
And what's he talking about?
What's he talking about?
I think he tried to imply that OZ can't flow.
Don't you know?
It's my shit, bro.
When I do it, man, I break it down.
I'm kind of like God and Jesus.
When you plant the seeds, I make this fucking shit grow.
Yeah.
When I blow, I blow.
It's like bombs going off and you know me.
I was as a kamikaze.
I take myself out of the game.
But you still remember that name.
Yeah.
That's that's it.
That's all I got right now.
Yeah, nice.
Nice. That was good.
That was good.
I mean, that was good.
I mean, you did better than me when I was from the spot.
Heathen Queen's a bitch.
Yeah, that's it.
That was well, you just perfected it.
That's the that's how you got to start every rap.
Tangang, Heathen Queen's a bitch.
A lot of Heathen Queen, obviously.
Oh, but we also.
But thank you so much, Oz, for coming on.
All your links that were mentioned will be in the description.
I actually one last super fun question.
What's a book you'd recommend to someone who's deconstructing their faith?
Oh, man.
I I I still have my my box of books packed up, but the
well, I'll give you two the first two that helped me.
First is Seth Andrews Deconverted.
That that I read.
I don't know how many times I read and even listened to on the audible.
Big friend of Seth Andrews.
Yeah, hell, yeah, shout out to to Seth.
He's he's a boss.
He's a boss.
And then obviously.
The the the late great RIP, the Hitch, Christopher Hitch, and God is not great.
Religion, poisons, everything that that would be that would be one that I would steer.
If if and if you like audiobooks, the audiobook of that is phenomenal.
It has music in between like it's a hitch narrates it.
It's just it's honestly it's it's it hits me in the fields like it's it's great.
Yeah.
And the other thing I want to point out because the yes, it it it like we do need
the those books, the the material, the content to help us do that.
But but we also need to equip ourselves.
Because now now we're approaching this from a a different perspective.
I'm in a different line of sight, so to speak.
And this is a and I'm not blowing smoke because Dr.
Josh is one of them, my best friends.
But get the atheist handbook to the Old Testament, both volumes, volume one and
volume two, because you need to be equipped because there are so many other things.
In those books that you're not taught in church, we're not taught when we are in church.
And you need to be equipped because those are the very things.
That most people I talk to that start to chip away at that that that wall of faith,
right, and start to to cause the dents and the chips and the cracks in the
eventual falling apart.
And we're talking about Dr.
Josh, somebody that he's he is a doctorate in one, one or two master degrees.
It's like it invested in those things as well.
So yes, find the validation that you need to find the validation and like
de-converted and God is not great.
Like find that validation.
You need that.
You deserve that.
But also, also equip yourself.
Equip yourself with the information and the education that that you need to to
have proper conversations, not debates, not arguments to have proper
conversations and dialogues with those that hold the now all of a sudden
opposite belief that you that you have.
Yeah, I just want to mention, Mr.
Butte, like said, why does it matter that someone to convert?
So as in the beginning, Mr.
Butte, like is known on my discord server for asking if he asks the most.
He might ask a lot of questions and they're great and they're great questions
a lot of the time.
This isn't I don't care if someone's faithful, to be honest, myself personally.
But for those who are deconstructing and they're going through what
Oz is going through and what I went through, if you are deconstructing,
sometimes it can feel very, very lonely because the support network
that you've had around you the whole life, your worldview that you've had
around you your whole life, you no longer have access to.
Like you no longer can like pray that when you're stuck in traffic,
then you're going to get to a job and if you're on time, you can no longer
pray that God removes your anxiety because you're doubting those very things.
So a lot of the time it's like you don't know how to navigate
the world that you're kind of in and it can be very traumatic.
So if someone's happy in their religion and whatever,
I disagree with your epistemological outlook on life.
I disagree that we can have good reasons to believe in God,
happy to have a conversation about it.
I could be wrong, they could be wrong, whatever.
But if you are and what and Jesse, if you are
deconstructing, if you're someone who is deconstructing,
deconstructing your faith, it's important.
Like reading these books, getting yourself in the community
can really help with that feeling.
And Jenna said, it'd be extremely traumatic
and some of the most depressing moments in my life.
And that's that's very true.
And there's something just sorry to monologue,
but there's something that I want to touch on briefly.
And that is when I was deconstructing my faith, it was the hardest
and most heartbreaking time in my life.
But on the flip side of that, it was like a double sided coin.
It was also the most exciting and the most interesting
because all of a sudden I could look at dinosaur fossils
and be like, yo, these things won't just make believe like they're real.
Like dinosaurs live 65 million years ago.
And like I've got some fossils up here or I won't pull them down.
But I'm like, wow, there's I don't have to like make up these
like jump through all these hoops to, you know, stuff.
So yeah, it was exciting.
But it's also very heartbreaking for people.
And that's what that's what this at least this stream is about.
But thank you so much, Oz, for coming on.
Do you got something you want to touch on?
Just real quick on what you're just saying.
And I was kind of I'd until just now I'd really just blocked out the chat
and wasn't paying attention just so I could be focused on our conversation.
But two things and I'll be as quick as possible.
No, I know we're way over.
But one, as far as the why, why should one assist?
Why would I and I'll talk about this from from my perspective?
Why? Why would I want to or desire for someone to
de-convert from religions?
And specifically, any of the Abrahamic religions is, first of all, beliefs.
Beliefs impact and influence people's decisions and their actions.
And and I want to I want to be surrounded
as much as I can.
I want to be surrounded by people that are rational.
And they're loving and they're kind.
Because they want to be rational and loving and kind.
And they don't have the these dogmatic beliefs that.
Impact the way that they talk to people, treat people, the way they vote.
The way they approach society.
I want to I want to know.
That I have to the best of my ability.
And that's what's fucked up as we will never really know.
But to the best of my ability, I want to to know or understand that
that I'm around the the highest quality people possible.
Like I want to know that I want to believe that.
But to the to the other part that you talk about, David,
they're through the the the deconstruction.
But most importantly, the de-conversion part in one of the things
that I didn't at all address or or talk about.
I'll say it very quickly here.
That de-conversion process, when you walk away.
If you don't have people, if you don't have.
A community or that community, those people to lean on and talk to.
That is one of the most fucked up, lonely.
The most miserable segments of your life.
Because you've been stripped of everything.
Everything that you thought was real and you thought was true.
You're now realizing is not real and is not true.
And you're wondering, is there anyone else out there that sees this?
Views this feels this understands this the way I am right now.
And until you start to meet those people, it is it is it's fucked up, man.
And it's it's lonely.
And I'm not going to sugarcoat that and I never will.
Because I shared this with someone.
I think it was the stream was with the Afrohumans and and others.
There there were several nights where I I laid in.
In my apartment, the same apartment I talked about earlier,
staring at the ceiling, wondering what now now why why what's my purpose?
Why am I here?
Why?
Why should I continue?
I continue to exist because now I have no purpose.
I've now I've literally now been robbed of everything.
I've had everything that my identity has been tied to has been stripped for me.
And taken away from me.
And there was I'm just going to pull it up because I think this is this is.
Now, sorry, I didn't mean to play music rap to I wanted to pull this up
because I think it's ironic that we're talking about this to close this out.
It was this night and I put on my calendar.
Two.
Three years ago.
No, sorry, four years ago.
And it was about the time I was going through the heat of this and.
If you can read just I don't know if you can read the top part of that.
If not, Austin, something night.
Yep.
So it says.
Austin's suicide night.
And that was that was me typing it in there in a.
In a drunken stupor.
Well, once I had kind of bounced back.
After being through the the the the depths and the throws of it is I wanted to record that.
I wanted to record that because.
It was.
It was that it was that night.
It was when I showed with the African is where I took an entire bottle of pills.
I had drank an insanely amount of alcohol.
And the only reason that I am still here is.
I took so many pills and drink so much alcohol, I passed the fuck out.
But I had I had my pistol laying like.
When my buddy came like he was worried he came to my apartment and found me
and my pistol was laying right next to my head.
And the only reason it shouldn't escalate or get worse is because I passed the fuck out.
Now, is that what every D conversion is?
Or should look like or will look like?
No.
But again, I don't I don't want to sugarcoat it because for those that,
especially if you're undiagnosed, untreated, like we have to talk about the real.
And we have to talk about the raw and what are the brutal realities in this?
And when you walk away, sometimes that's how fucked that shit can get.
And I will come full circle and say, that's why therapy, therapy, therapy is crucial.
Crucial.
It's it's it's life saving.
It's it's life saving.
And finding a group of people.
That you can connect with, whether it's two or three people or a gang of people
like Tangang, where we we we welcome anyone and everyone.
We we want we actually we want the misfits, the ones that everybody else
discounts and throws to the side.
We we want to welcome those people.
But those those are the most wicked, ugly and lonely moments that you can
experience as a former believer.
And I will end it and as much as I can bring it up to tomorrow, upbeat.
No, I want anyone and everyone now and later listening and I know David does too.
And David is now part of Tangang.
So I I I could even even connect that here.
I I I I do this ninety nine percent of time to help that person.
And to be there for that person.
And if you feel like because of what people have told you and the way you
grow up or indoctrination, whatever that you're you're not good enough or you're
not worthy or all the other shit they they talk.
I can tell you right now, you can have a place, find a place and have a place
where you do feel worthy and you do feel loved and appreciated and acknowledged
and validated, which is the biggest thing.
Validated and the fact that you don't believe.
And you're still wanting or desiring that that community.
So I know I know I said I'd keep that brief.
But as soon as I get preaching on that, that topic, I love people.
I love people and there's always a place in like I I'll wrap this up just like I did it better.
We, you, I.
But you, whoever's listening, you're not alone, you're not by yourself.
You are not alone.
And you have a gang of people, you have a gang of people that want to love you,
love on you, be there for you and help you and help you.
And help you and.
How about you, boy?
Sorry, David, I went to fuck off.
No, I was like.
That took me very off guard.
I'm sorry that you've you've you've been through that.
And for anyone who's listening, it's suicide and and and and everything
that comes along with the feelings of that is most people struggle with moments
of that in their life and there's no no no fucking shame in getting help.
And I think I'm and I'm the same as I think everyone.
I think everyone in the should go to therapy at least once in the life
or a few times in the life because it is.
It is so helpful and I've never been suicidal myself.
However, there's been times when I've said that I was hoping to die.
So I never planned anything.
But I can I can relate to the I remember literally
taking solace in the idea of not not living anymore.
I mean, I was suffering so much with my mental health.
Jenna just said I'm proud of you.
I will say this to end on a happier note.
You in general are becoming two of my favorite people on the Internet.
You know, like I became friends with Dr.
Josh and Megan, they were my favorite for a while.
Now you guys are starting to overtake them talking to you guys.
Well, I love you guys.
And honestly, it's been awesome meeting you guys.
And and I really appreciate your story and I really appreciate
what you you're trying to do.
I think it's really important.
And I hope that next time there is a better conference.
You have me as the headlining rapper because obviously you need some music there.
I can I can rap if you need someone.
So you're the best.
You're the greatest.
You're the greatest rapper alive.
Tang gang. I'm here with Tang gang.
Here in Queens, a bitch.
Bars. Bars.
But thank you so much, Oz, for coming on.
It's been an amazing, amazing journey to listen to your story.
And and all your links will be in the description.
Make sure everyone you go subscribe to Tang, the atheist network group.
Subscribe to Jenna, subscribe to Oz.
They're they're doing some good stuff.
And you might see me over there shortly hanging out with some peeps.
I won't mention who they are.
But thank you so much, guys, for tuning in.
And I'll talk to you guys later.
Love you all. See you.
