There is a, uh, a popular streamer by the name of George Jenko, who you may know from the Logan Paul podcast, actually.
Uh, and they recently had a falling out.
One of the falling outs they had was the fact that Logan was challenging some of his religious beliefs.
Subscribe to a doctrine that, that slams homosexuality.
Come on, bro.
That's ridiculous.
I mean, again, we've talked about this.
George has started his own podcast and he's recently had someone on that you've debated, uh, Cliff Connectly.
They had a section on slavery.
So I thought it'd be cool to just do a bit of a commentary on their discussion.
So you know how they say, uh, slavery is in the Bible and it's promoted as the Bible is like slavery was okay.
How do you guys argue against that?
It's interesting.
You raised that because you're right at, uh, University of Texas, Austin and some other schools.
There were a bunch of very well educated students and grad students who really pounded on that.
And their whole point was the reason you cannot trust the Bible is because it advocates slavery.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Time out.
The second greatest miracle of the Old Testament was what?
The Exodus.
What's happening in the Exodus?
God is delivering the Hebrew slaves from slavery in Egypt.
Well, well, but there was slavery that was recorded in the Bible.
Yes, that's right.
There's slavery that's recorded.
There's polygamy that's recorded.
There's rape.
Yeah.
That's called recorded.
Please pause it.
Like this, this sleight of hand nonsense, um, it's, it's so old.
And I think probably people don't need me to, to point this out, but I'm going to.
First of all, pointing at the Exodus, um, yeah, he delivered his people, right?
This is not a statement about the social institution of slavery.
It's saying you can enslave my people.
And what people fail to mention in this, uh, in this discussion is why, uh,
God's chosen people can't be enslaved because they're his slaves, right?
Read Leviticus 25.
Why is it that the Israelites can't be enslaved anymore?
By the time you get to the holiness, because, because they're my slaves,
who my brought out of Egypt, right?
To be my slaves.
So you, you, they can't be enslaved to somebody else, right?
Um, so like this idea that somehow the Exodus is a commentary on the social
institution of slavery is just false, right?
It's just not true.
Um, but secondly, this whole thing about like, well, it's in the text,
it's recorded in the text, you know, like, like rape is recorded in the text or
murders are recorded in text or whatever.
Yeah, that's not what anybody's talking about.
Like nobody's going up.
I mean, hopefully if they are, it's silly.
But like nobody's going up and showing how like there's some heinous crime in the
book of judges, right?
Or some heinous crime in the book of kings and saying, look, look, it shows here how
he murdered this person.
Like nobody's going and saying, look, it says here, uh, that David, um, murdered
Uriah.
See, the Bible is promoting murder.
Like, no, that's, I mean, if people are doing that, shame on them, that's dumb.
Right.
Unless it's in a very specific context.
Um, no, right.
Like the, the, the text goes out of its way in the narrative to say, see this really
bad thing that David did.
Don't do that.
Right.
So, so to say that, well, it's in the text.
And of course all these things are in the text.
No, what people are saying is, look here in these legal sections, look here in the
law collections, look in the covenant code, look in the Deuteronomic code, look in the
holiness code, see how they have these big sections on how to own slaves.
That's what people are talking about.
Brother, the Bible is helping people living in a corrupt, depraved culture learn how to
deal with it.
Exodus chapter 21, verse 16, you've got to read it.
It says very clearly, if you kidnap someone and are caught with them in your possession
or having gotten rid of them and sold them, you must be put to death.
Death penalty.
You kidnap somebody and you're caught with them in your possession as your slave, or
you've sold them to somebody else, you're to be put to death.
Now, so I want to pause it here for a second because this is something that in the conclusion
of the book, I point out as sort of a tool that people can use that even, even if they've
read the book and they've read all the arguments, they've gone through all these passages, they
understand the verse that he just talked about because we talk about it.
Maybe they don't remember all the arguments.
Maybe they don't remember exactly what to say about Deuteronomy 23, 15, and 16.
But they remember this question, therefore what?
If people can remember to ask the question, therefore what?
It will help them go so far in these discussions.
So let's try it here.
He's just pointed out Exodus 21, 16, which says if you steal somebody to subject them
to slavery, it's a free person, by the way.
If you steal them and subject them to slavery, sell them, you have them in your hand,
trying to sell them, whatever, you get killed.
It's illegal to kidnap people to subject them to slavery.
Guess what?
It was illegal everywhere in the ancient Near East to do that.
Hello, hello, anybody home?
Like, so, but let's forget all that for a second.
Let's just say, for the sake of argument, it's just in the Hebrew Bible.
And the Hebrew Bible is brand new, and it says, hey, it's illegal to kidnap people
and subject them to slavery.
Therefore what?
Because the answer to that question, if you ask that to Cliff, therefore what?
His answer is going to have to be, I guess, this makes slavery okay.
Right?
Because, well, I mean, you can't kidnap people and subject you.
But then the text says that you can have slaves.
But it says that you can't kidnap them and subject a free person to slavery.
And that's the death penalty.
Therefore what, Cliff?
So there's no slavery?
Like, is that the point that you're trying to make?
Because, like, the next set of verses talks about what to do with your slave.
So, but it's that question.
So when an apologist comes to you and says, well, if a slave runs away,
then you can't return them.
Let's just assume, for the sake of argument, that that is a reasonable argument.
It's not.
Therefore what?
So it's okay to have the slave as long as they can be freed if they run away.
It's okay to subject somebody to slavery and take away their personal freedom
if they have the opportunity to run away and be freed.
That's your argument.
Oh, after six years, they have to be freed.
Therefore what?
So if somebody is freed after six years, then it's okay to enslave them for those six years.
Is that what you're saying?
Like, just remember that question back.
Therefore what?
And make them actually finish the thought and defend their position.
Because what they want to do is what Cliff is doing now.
And that's to say like, look, it's not as bad.
I heard somebody do this today and then I'll shut up.
But I heard somebody do this today talking about the Deuteronomy 21, 10 to 14 passage,
which talks about taking a captive bride.
Right.
And they're talking about all that what they have to be given a whole month to mourn.
And the guy just can't just go in and have sex with her immediately.
And if he puts her away, he can't just sell her to a foreign people.
Right.
Therefore what?
It was okay to take a captive bride under duress, right?
Without her consent.
It's okay to go in and have sex with her and make her your wife without her.
That's okay.
As long as if you don't like the way she's having sex with you,
then you can put her out, but you can't sell her.
Like, is that what you're really arguing?
Like, come on.
The same people do the same thing with Muhammad marrying Aisha at six years old
and not sleeping with her until she was nine until she came into maturity,
whatever that is at nine years old.
So people do the same thing.
It's the same, it's the same, you know, you look at the context.
Well, other people were doing worse.
Like, how good was Muhammad for doing this?
How good was Moses for only, you know, doing this to the Melchites or whatever?
Like, I'm getting parts wrong.
I'm getting names wrong.
But the point still stands, and it's therefore what?
Get to the New Testament, you're in the Roman Empire,
and over 50% of the people in the Roman Empire were slaves.
Doctors were slaves, lawyers were slaves, business people were slaves.
It was like indentured servants.
Were some of those slaves mistreated?
Tragically, yes.
A lot of those slaves, though, were treated very respectfully.
Now, when Paul-
When he says, were some of those slaves mistreated?
Tragically, yes.
He's leaving out that in Exodus 21, it gives you instructions on how to beat your slave.
So as long, and it's okay.
It's totally fine.
As long as they don't die within a few days, you can beat them.
And you've pointed out in previous episodes, it's like,
it's like the same arguments were used in the Antebellum South.
It's like, well, we had to be able to beat them.
Because we're not, we can't, we're not paying them.
They're ours, they're our property.
We had to be able to beat them.
What other deterrence did we have?
So that's why these types of mistreated define that for me, Cliff.
Like these are the questions that I'd want to ask back.
Define mistreated for me, right?
Because like these sort of ambiguous, gotta treat them well.
They were respected.
What does that mean?
So you can respect somebody and take away their freedom?
Is that under your definition that's respecting someone?
I don't understand.
And I don't think he does either, honestly.
I think this is, this is apologetic whitewashing.
It's what it is.
And like a good defense attorney does it.
I'm not knocking that.
Like, I mean, he's doing the best with what he's got.
He's playing the hand that he was dealt.
I just wish he would say, I can't win with this hand, right?
Let me, let's play a different game.
Yeah, let's play snap.
Paul says slaves obey your masters.
What he's doing is he's not saying that slavery's good.
But he is saying Christians do not follow Spartacus.
And cause a slave rebellion in the Roman Empire.
Because that's really going to mess things up.
This is the underlying assumption.
This is the, what the unstated premise that he's incorrect about.
And that is that the New Testament writers were thinking,
God, the social institution of slavery is immoral, right?
And, and, but, oh God, we can't,
we can't just have the Christians, you know, go into uprising.
We really don't like slavery.
We really think it's immoral.
And we, boy, if we could snap our fingers,
if we could press the easy button,
we'd just get rid of the social institution and say, but we can't.
You know, and so what do we do?
Well, we don't want rebellions.
We don't.
So, so we're just, no, like that.
Yeah.
Citation required, right?
Please show me in the biblical texts, in the New Testament texts,
where it is that Jesus and Paul and the other writers are going,
the social institution of slavery is wrong.
And please don't take me to 1st, Timothy 1, 9 to 10.
No good.
Don't take me to the book of Philemon.
Doesn't work.
Don't take me to Galatians 3 28,
because then you got to argue that Paul didn't think
there was a social difference between men and women, right?
So, miss me with that shit, as Joe Baden always says.
And the thing is, and I talk about this in the book,
but like, and I've talked about it with Stuart and Cliff.
It's true of the word slave in the Hebrew Bible, right?
It's true of the word Wardham and Acadian, right?
Like, Pace is like, you know, Luke 17 and the story, the analogy that Jesus draws between,
you know, the disciples themselves owning slaves and how they would treat the slaves.
And that would be totally expected how he does it.
It's just, this is, it's not something that's in the mind of the New Testament writers
to try to get rid of the social institution of slavery.
This is just consensus scholarship across the board.
And it's certainly not something that most of the early church fathers,
you know, wrestled with in this way, right?
Yeah, so anyway, it's just, yeah, it's just, again, it's this unstated premise.
That he's assuming that's just not correct.
Masters, but understand that freedom is best.
How do you conclude that?
Because Paul wrote a whole letter.
It's at the back of the New Testament called the letter of Philemon.
The whole point of the letter is, Philemon, you have a slave who ran away.
I met him in prison.
I led him to Jesus.
I'm sending him back to you.
But I asked you to accept him back no longer as a slave,
but as a brother in Christ.
I won't go into the details of this here.
I would just, you know, if Cliff, and I've told him this, I'm sure before, but
Cliff, please go read the secondary literature.
Pick up a commentary.
Like read about what people, and don't pick up like a, you know, like a,
you know, preaching preachers commentary on the Bible or so.
Like pick up, you know, a reputable commentary.
Read through the Hermioneus series, you know, or the volume in the Hermioneus series,
or in the Anchor Bible.
Like read scholarly work on the Book of Philemon.
Because like, you know, read Jennifer Glancy on this, read Ronald Charles on this.
Like these are, the Book of Philemon is just not as clear cut as Cliff would like it to be.
Most apologists would like it to be, right?
It's debated what the book is about, first of all.
But even in a best case scenario, scholars are very clear
that this is not some sort of a blanket condemnation of the social institution of slavery.
You'd have to make the argument that Paul is like, you know,
don't, women, don't do this.
You know, don't rape, don't kill slavery.
Listen, I'm going to leave this one up to you.
Right?
I think you should set him free.
You know my position, but gosh, you know, I'll leave this one up to you.
Yeah.
A great place for Cliff to start if he wanted to have like a catalogue of hundreds of sources
is this amazing book called Did the Old Testament Endure Slavery, which is your book.
You've got literally hundreds of sources from Bible scholars with your own translations
of the Hebrew, because folks, you read Hebrew, you read...
How many languages do you read?
You read a lot of languages.
Like a couple.
Being modest.
Yeah, Dr. Josh, just to toot your horn a little bit.
You used to sit in a room with a friend and a Hebrew dictionary
and only speaks to each other in Hebrew, right?
That's my friend, Mark Zimmerman.
Yeah.
Very seminary.
We really wanted to learn Hebrew well.
So what we did is as we were studying biblical Hebrew, we were learning modern Hebrew.
And yeah, that's right.
We locked ourselves in a room for like three hours at a time.
And we'd have our Hebrew dictionary.
We'd have our conjugation.
We had this big book on how to conjugate verbs and our grammar.
And we would just sort of sit there and...
No English.
No English allowed.
Just speak Hebrew to each other.
We were kind of nerdy.
That's so cool.
That's so cool.
All right, let's do it.
Slavery around the world, usually it is motivated by followers of Christ,
like William Wilberforce in the British Empire.
Like Frederick Douglass here in the United States,
who understood biblically all human beings are created in the image of God,
therefore to enslave someone is absolutely evil.
And they fought against slavery for the abolition of slavery and they succeeded.
Why?
Because Jesus Christ and the Bible teach that no man, no woman is inferior to anybody else.
Why?
Because God created all of us in His image.
This is where I would say I'm really happy for what Cliff is doing in that,
in this very narrow sense.
Because what Cliff is doing is engaging with, and it's not my area of expertise,
but is engaging in a more progressive form of theology.
Because what he's doing is he's saying,
and he probably doesn't think he's doing this, but I mean he clearly is.
He's saying, let's take this big picture approach.
Let's think about passages like Jesus came to set the captives free,
and let's think about the exodus.
And maybe let's shy away from these legal sections so much.
Let's use this broad understanding of what the text says to me as a whole.
Let's ignore, maybe let's not focus in on these things like Luke 17 or these passages.
Let's sort of look at them in light of these other more broad statements about,
boy, Genesis 1, 26.
Create a man in his image.
Oh my gosh, like this is everybody's saying.
Let's ignore the fact that slaves in Exodus 21 are not do the same rights as a free person.
Let's shy away from that stuff.
But let's really think about how the church has worked with the text for the last 2,000 years.
Let's look at how people in the antebellum south who also interpreted the text more
progressively when they were working for the abolitionist side, right?
And let's focus in on those things and let the text, hey, awesome, because here's the reality.
Every day, I am faced with someone else on social media, in an email, watching them on YouTube,
that after someone or I show them, hey, this is real actual slavery in the Hebrew Bible
and in the New Testament, for example, that they come back with, well, damn, maybe slavery is not
immoral. Like at least I'm glad, or I'm glad at least here that Stuart is saying and Cliff
is saying, yes, slavery is immoral. Obviously, this book can't be supporting it. How do I look
at this? How do I interpret this book in a way that shows me that this immoral thing called
slavery is in fact immoral, right? Thank God, whatever, thank Frank, for that, right? At least
he's not saying, well, damn, I mean, yeah, these laws, maybe slavery is not immoral. Cliff,
keep going down this path, man. If this is where you stick with this, don't go the other way.
So, yeah, it's almost like his morality is better than what the Bible teaches in some way,
because the problem is like, there's something that also comes up for me when I want to watch that
with, you know, you're saying God has created every single person in the image of God, he's
knitted them together in their womb. Why would he do that for a child that's just about to be
drowned in a global flood? Why would he do that for an Amalekite child who's about to be slaughtered
at the hands of the Israelites? Why would he do that for a, what's the other group that the
Israelites some slaughtered? The Midianites. The Midianites, why would he do that to these
infants, right? Like, let's just, let's forget about the evil, you know, men that might be
manifold and I've heard some Christian apologists say, but let's just talk about just the infants,
the babies. Why would God knit them together in the womb, knowing ahead of time that, you know,
only the day of their birth, they would be slaughtered at the instructions of God's people.
I guess it's good that Cliff, again, Cliff's morality is taking one of more progressive
spin on things. So slavery is wrong. Yes, there were certain cultural challenges like polygamy
that had to be handled. Polygamy is multiple wives, yeah. Correct. And the two shall become one,
not the 10 become one, not the 20 become one, Solomon 700 wives, 300 concubines, no,
not the 1000 become one, the two become one, that's marriage, that's Genesis one and two,
but then Genesis three, we have the fall where human beings say, we got a better idea.
We're going to run our lives our way. I just want to point out, like, that's a very clear example of
systematic theology, right? That's what, and that's what Cliff is doing is theology is at its core,
like, wait a minute, this is an inspired and errant text. Therefore, it all has to work together.
So what is the narrative that I put together in my head, this meta narrative, right, that explains
how all these things connect. So the fact that scholars would say that Genesis one is, you know,
a priestly addition that happens at the end, right, of the editorial process, no, he's not
no good for him, right? Genesis one lays that man, that's, that's where it all starts, right?
Because Jesus says from the beginning, this was not so. And so, yeah, but, but again, that's a,
that's a theological interpretation. I think he would agree with that and God says, because I've
given you free will, you are free to go. And polygamy resulted and slavery resulted. And those
are two horrible abuses of the gift of life that God has given us. I love the line of
abolishing slavery, which is what the Christians did. We'll be Wilbur Forrest,
Frederick Douglass, once he got out of slavery. But even before then, every single civilization
had slavery. It was supernatural to start to abolish slavery. My favorite line,
supernatural. I need to stop that. That's not true. That's not true. There are many,
there were many groups of people who didn't have slavery, like the Aboriginal Australians
know, there's no slavery known in history from Aboriginal Australians. There is no,
there's no slavery in the, who are the group that Sam Harris always talks about? The Jains,
the Jains, they like the religion is like, it's specifically, like you can't cause harm to anything,
like not even bugs. I mean, like there, there are groups, cultures in around the world
that didn't have slavery. It's not supernatural to get rid of slavery. It's just, it's just
And do you notice, do you notice that they're not, I mean, maybe in the next,
you know, however many seconds are left in this video clip that they talk about this, maybe,
maybe that's when they're going to pack in all the commentary on the text of the Old Testament.
Doubt it. But have you noticed that they're not actually dealing with the divine commands about
slavery? Like, no, they're just saying, Oh, well, you know, look, what are the divine
commands about slavery? Can you list like this, the chapter in verse and I'll stick them in the
bottom. Yeah, so that, yeah, I mean, like, so that the three main passages that, that in the,
in the Hebrew Bible that contain laws on slavery are Exodus 21, Deuteronomy 15, and Leviticus 25.
And basically, there's, there's not uniformity between these three. Most scholars would agree
that Exodus 21 comes first, chronologically speaking, and then Deuteronomy 15 follows that.
And then the Holiness Code and Leviticus 25 comes, comes at the end. But, but essentially,
the main things to remember are their distinctions in the laws between
how one can treat Israelites, fellow Israelites, and how one can treat foreigners. And that is
maintained, you know, particularly pronounced in Leviticus 25. But for the first two, you know,
a male Israelite, and this gets developed in Deuteronomy 15, probably, but like a male Israelite
is allowed to be kept for six years, and then released in the seventh with his debt repaid.
In Exodus 21, the female slave is taken as a concubine, sold as a concubine,
and is not freed. You're allowed to beat your male and female slaves. As you pointed out earlier,
if they die immediately, then there's a severe punishment to the master. But
if they survive a day or two, then there is no punishment under the law because the slave is
money. And, you know, the big change takes place in Leviticus 25, where Israelites are no longer
allowed to be kept as slaves. They have to be kept as hired workers. And so then the text goes on
to be very specific. If the Israelites want slaves, they have to get them from the nations around them
or from foreigners that are living in their midst. Those become their property, their inherited
property passed on as part of the broader inheritance of the land. They're kept for life.
They, again, they're passed on as inheritance, and they can be made to serve forever. They're not,
you know, there's no requirement for their manumission. So those are the basic laws. Again,
I go through them in a lot more detail in the book. But yeah, notice that they're just not
dealing with the places where God says, here's how you do slavery. It would really be like,
you know, if my attorney, you know, if the district attorney were like, look,
we had kids come to Josh's house and like get drunk and drive and, you know, crash their car.
And my defense attorney goes, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, time out, you know.
Sure, sure. Josh said a couple of things, you know, he was dealing with these kids
where, I mean, these kids are going to drink, right? They're going to party. And so Josh is just
trying to, you know, he's trying to give them a, he's trying to work with the kids. But look at
what Josh said. You should be safe when you drive, right? And you should always obey the laws
of the land when you drive on their streets. And so like, Josh is, is very pro safety on the road.
That is perfect. And that is like, perfect. You know, the judge would be like,
nice try. Nice try. Yeah, like who are they fooling? The other problem is, correct me,
is this the same for Deuteronomy and Leviticus? But in Exodus, it literally says,
this is what like these instructions from the Lord, or this, this is what the Lord says to
Israel, right? Like it says that in Exodus, does it say that the same thing in Leviticus and Deuteronomy?
So these aren't like Moses is like, you know, fallen humans, you know, idea. This is what God
says. Yeah, I mean, like, and the only like, they get around and say, well, God was working
within the time. This is what I, this is, this is something that I always ask people this, like,
if, if you were always working, if God was working in the time would, so like, okay,
let's say there's a place where there's prostitution, which we know that God doesn't
technically like, or sex work, right? Would God be like, work within the time? So would God be like,
okay, if you're going to do sex work, you know, you're going to do it like this, you know, you
only do oral on Thursdays. Don't do anal sex on Wednesdays. Like what, what, like, what, you
know, would God do that? Like, like, will God work in the time with everything or is it just
with slavery? Like, I don't, I don't understand, like, natural, because Christians are always like,
getting hit for, oh, you believe in the supernatural. I mean, that's kind of more normal
these days. But they get picked on for it, right? But it's really supernatural that they came in
and abolished slavery and did away with polygamy and these kinds of things, because
it was natural to do these things. Even from an evolutionary perspective, it's natural to have
slaves. It's natural to have numerous wives. Like the Me Too movement came out of Christianity.
Yep. So a lot of, you know, it's so funny is I've noticed the pattern of humanity is they blame
the people that set them free. They blame the people that set them free. For example, a man back
in the day when I was growing up in the old days, when a man ran the house, the old days.
It's now disrespectful. Do you have any idea what my dad sacrificed to be the man of the house?
And now you're going to smack him in the face of disrespect. Oh, you think you're the man in
the house? How about this? You'd be the man in the house. It's work. It's sacrifice. I make jokes
all the time. We're not equals. I run this household, but God runs us. So if I'm out of line,
he's going to smite me in a way that I promise you, I'm going to correct myself. But if there's a
fire and our children in there, I'm not going to look at babe, let's equally decide who's going to
go on the fire. No, see here, if I die going here, that's on me. You're not going to risk your life.
There's no reason for you to risk your life. I am the one who's going to go into the fire.
Now you're going to get mad at me for being the guy who goes into the fire. That's ridiculous.
Tell me you don't know a fucking thing about patriarchal societies or sexism without telling
me you don't know a fucking thing about sexism. Like holy shit. So I'm not going to touch that
except to say what a fucking moron. Sorry, that's not nice. But I mean, that's how I feel right now.
Can you tell us a little bit about the book as we wrap up this?
Yeah, I mean, so we try to make sure that everybody is able to get a copy of it that wants one.
Megan sets the price of each of the Kindle versions of whatever book, however long it is,
or whatever it is, is like 10 bucks. But I mean, this one, it's another one of these books that
we did that Seth Andrews did the audio version, which I listened to myself, got a copy of the
audio book myself of my own book, just so that I can hear his voice. Having spent years in graduate
school enduring the rigors of our doctoral programs, we were absolutely shocked.
But yeah, no, I mean, if you are interested in talking to people about this topic, or just,
you know, being able to track the arguments in such a way that you say, yeah, that Christian
apologizes, and he said that about Deuteronomy 23, that did not sit right with me and any slave
can run away. That just doesn't sound right. Well, it's because it's not. And so we go through that
sort of stuff in the book so that you can, you know, the just the average interested intellectual
person that doesn't have all these years in grad school studying this stuff, you know, can engage
in this topic or listen to people talk about this topic, and have a good understanding of what the
scholars are actually saying about these passages. And there is over 702 pages of gold in that book.
And I can't wait. Pure gold. Yes. It is. It is pure gold. Like I had, it's an amazing,
amazing book. It's so thick and so filled with resources. So and it's easy to read. I would
recommend listening to the audible version. That's how I read it. It's fantastic. Thank you.
