Hey, hey, everyone. That was looping and that was not supposed to loop. Welcome to the Deep Drinks
podcast. I'm very excited to be here today. My guest today is known online as genetically
modified skeptic. He was a Christian Young Earth Creationist, now a skeptic and an atheist.
He's kind and respectful and that's why people love him. He also has detailed instructions on
his YouTube channel on how to go to hell in every single religion. Welcome, Drew from
genetically modified skeptic. How are you doing? I'm really, really happy to be here. Thanks for
having me on. It's such an interesting, what a clickbait title. How to go to hell in every
religion. That's such a good video. The YouTube algorithm changed at some point and was like,
you've got to do shorts to get new people to watch your videos. I was just throwing anything
at the wall trying to figure out what would stick. One of my very first ideas I ever had was just,
it was just shot out of a cannon. What if I take the old phrase like, oh, I'm going to hell in
every religion and actually take that seriously? How would I take that seriously? Okay, what about
instructions? I did a one minute short of a preliminary thing and it's my biggest video
I've ever made, over 7 million views now. I was telling my wife about how well it did and she
goes, you have to turn that into a long form video. I did and yeah, it's been one of my more
successful ones. Taylor gets the credit for that. That's so awesome. This reminds me of this guy on
TikTok who asked people to curse him in every witches, voodoo, and he sent hair to them. He's
do everything you can and he's like, in two weeks this will happen and it's been a year,
nothing's happened. It kind of reminds me a little bit different, a little bit similar to that.
So, Drew, thank you so much for coming on. The first thing I want to ask is, what are we drinking?
Well, we are saying no to dehydration tonight, boys. This is the tap water of
the springs here in beautiful Austin, Texas. That's beautiful. I've got a water and you also
said you might bring herbal tea and I've got myself a herbal tea and I don't know if you know,
but I'm the best dad ever. Wow, look at that. This is for the first half of Thursday.
But something I need to, I don't know what's going on. Something super strange is I've noticed a
trend with the people who come on and what drinks they choose. Of course, any drink is acceptable,
you know, alcoholic, not alcoholic, but overwhelmingly, Bible scholars choose hard liquor, it seems.
And Christian apologists, like Michael Jones every time, Hard Scotch, just straight off the rocks.
I've had Matt de la Hunty on, iced tea, iced tea, same. I think Neil 64 Atheist, same. It was
water or iced tea. And I'm like, what is this? What is with, I thought I was told as a Christian
that we were supposed to, you know, left Christianity to sin. Like, and, you know, what's
going on here? This is crazy. So I don't know. Like, can you explain this to me? Why did you choose
water or tea? Oh, God, I mean, I, I guess you could say, you know, when you, when you just live
so close, just adjacent to the flames of hell, then you have to have something on hand to scorch
it, right? Yeah, those guys can handle the burn because, you know, they, they know they're not
going to have to deal with it in the afterlife. So just a little inkling of it now and then it's
all right. But us, now we got to, we got something to quench it. That's true. That's very true. So
people say online that you're a like such kind of nice guy. And so you're such a nice person.
How can you be an atheist? Yeah, no, I'm trying to figure that one out myself because we're,
I, I am supposed to be completely nihilistic and hateful and, you know, like hate children,
in fact, possibly eat children. But no, I have no problem with being nice for whatever reason.
It's probably because I was raised as a, as a good Christian, you know, my, my dad is this great
Godfaring meek and mild Christian man who's very nice to everyone. And it must just be me copying
him. Of course, if I was raised atheist, there's absolutely no way that I could possibly be nice,
right? No, obviously, like, these are just hateful stereotypes that people like to throw at people
that are outside their own group. And it makes them feel like they're better than other people,
regardless of what their actions are, what other people's actions are. And these, these are powerful
narratives that help people's groups stay together regardless of what anyone is doing, what reality
actually is. Yeah, it's, it is super interesting. Did you go through like an edgy atheist like
stage? Because I feel like everyone kind of does, but did you go through one? Or is it you just
nice the whole way through? No, yeah, I can't say that I've always been exactly as I am right now.
I mean, I think that when I first started thinking of myself as an atheist, I realized, you know
what, I'm super early on in my identity. This is very new for me. And so I think I realized I wasn't
always going to have takes that were going to serve or benefit other people that like I still had a
lot of stuff going on and I needed to be focused on like learning and bettering myself and things
like that. So yeah, I mean, if you were around in very, very specific, deep East Texas free
thinker groups in 2016, which I've had some people find my videos from from back then, you've seen
me, you know, like post random memes, like atheist memes and say, you know, like just kind of like
engage in a lot of mockery and vent about stuff and swear a lot and just all that kind of thing.
But I kind of purposely did that more privately. And when I started my channel, yeah, I was
more likely to be a bit more scathing. Sometimes I would make jokes of people's expense that I
wouldn't now. But I think that the main way that my preliminary like atheist transition or edgy
atheist phase manifested was that I was really into anti-theism like religion needs to be completely
eliminated and we will all be better off if there is no religion. This is both like an attainable
goal and like the best school that that I can possibly work toward. And I don't I don't think
that now I didn't just think that because I was being hateful or something. I think there are
people who are very nice and polite and kind good people who do think that. But I think that I thought
that because I hadn't quite given myself the time to think through all of the issues related to
religion and how religion related to me in my everyday life. So so when you first deconstruct
it, well, let's let's go back a little bit because I want to cover many topics when we
today and we want to get to all of them. But but something I'd like to ask people who have
deconstructed is would you say when you were a Christian that you had a relationship with
Christ or a relationship with Jesus? Like did you feel like what explain what it was like for
you to be a Christian? Yeah, I definitely would have explained my religion, not as religion,
but as a personal relationship with Jesus. You know, I was very, very active in going to church
and in Christian communities and that kind of thing. You know, I am the first in four generations
of men in my family not to be a missionary, like living on the mission field. And so,
of course, I was really steeped in the practice of Christianity. But but to me and to my family,
the core of being a Christian was being in a constant state of prayer, speaking with Jesus
literally all the time. I mean, when people would say, oh, we need to, you know, say our prayers
before going to bed or before meals, like, of course, yeah, I'll do something like that,
especially before meals. But I was in a spirit of prayer all the time. You know, I woke up and
it wasn't that I had to try to pray. I just prayed reflect reflexively and automatically.
I would be brushing my teeth and praying. When I would go to the skate park and skate, I would pray
to ask God to help me to land a trick, you know, and this wasn't like, oh, I'm partitioning God
to give me good luck. It's like, I'm just hanging out with him and talking with him constantly.
And everyone else I know is like that. It wasn't it wasn't strange. I actually found it really weird
when people found or thought about Christianity as primarily ritualistic. Because for me, it was
lived experience every day. I talked to Jesus as much as I talked to my mom.
That's, that's, uh, that's very similar to the type of Christianity that I had. I, um, I, and
actually part of my story is that it actually got tangled up in what I later discovered to be OCD. So,
so what I will, my psychologist told me was OCD. So I ended up having a really horrible
voices of God in my head. Like, uh, the first one I ever got, uh, that caused me panic attacks
was I heard the voice of God tell me to break up with Amy, my, my now wife. And, um, I talked to
pastors and everyone about it. And they said, that doesn't, that doesn't seem right. Cause she's,
she's, you guys are kind of doing everything right. And she's encouraging you to go to church.
She just, the way came, came about doesn't seem right. And then I went to a psychologist and
he got me to do a psychological technique and weeks, months of, of traumatic vomiting in the
garden, like panic attacks all went in like two minutes. And I was like, whoa, I was like,
that's, I haven't experienced anything like that outside of church. Like that seems,
that seems like a spiritual thing, not a psychological thing. And that was part of my
deconstruction. So, but, but how did, so this is, it's really interesting because you, you
describe the conversation you have with God where you're like, I'm going to deacon, you know, I need
to investigate things. And then you go to investigate things. And then how do you go from, like it
seems counterintuitive to go from, I need to investigate things, God to now I don't believe
in you. Like how does that happen? Like how, as a gradient, obviously, but it's, it's weird, right?
Yeah, I mean, it, it definitely takes, it took a lot of time. And when I tell my story,
as I have, you know, many times in different podcasts and on my channel, people are often
comment like, Oh, that was really fast. Like I talk about this four month media blackout that
I went on, you know, where I do, I wouldn't consume any, any media, especially any like
non Christian media, because I didn't want anything to influence my decision as I started
questioning my beliefs. But I was being influenced and I guess I would probably say learning new
things that were influencing me for a very long time, preceding my kind of eventual
leaving of the faith. And that was, people like to say, Oh, that was at college. It was at
under the tutelage of all these atheist professors. No, it was an evangelical Christian
college in East Texas. Like, I, I, I couldn't possibly make up a counter example that would,
that would serve me any better to those types of claims, you know, it's even better than me
going to Moody Bible Institute, because they're too fundamentalist for a lot of people, right?
So no, I mean, I could make it better as if you were, if you were like, you know, volunteering
at Dr. Dino, like, like, you know, Dino got a sort of pencil eventually on the weekend as well or
something like, yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, no, the, the dinosaur adventure land stuff, that was when
I was a teenager college. I wasn't, wasn't as into that stuff later in college. But I studied psychology
in college. My degree is a bachelor's of science and in counseling psychology. And so
it was me learning about how the mind works, about how groups of people work, how our psychology is
affected by social interaction, by substances, by music, all these kinds of things by our
upbringings. And it made me question the internal psychological processes or the internal spiritual
processes that I felt, right? So I'm, I'm thinking about like, I think that something that started
to hit me when I was a teenager, probably around 14 or 15, which was earlier than it hit most of
my friends that now realize this. You know, when I'd go to church camp, or when I'd go to a service
that was really heavy with the music, it was very emotive. I could hear God's voice or influence
louder. And yes, in that moment, especially in that moment, but later, I could hear God's voice
louder. I felt closer to him and all of my friends all felt the same way. And I, I realized this
pretty young and was confirmed when I went to college later, that when there are certain stimuli,
external stimuli that make you kind of suddenly start to relate to or feel God in a different way,
maybe that's indication that your brain, the material non spiritual part of the brain
is actually influencing the way that you're making your decisions, the way that you're
seeing things. And so from, from a very early age, I was kind of differentiating between just like
the physical brain and mind, the natural and all the processes that that influences within a person
and the spiritual, you know, like these, these are two different things and we shouldn't get
them confused. So when you feel really heightened because of music, because of worship music,
you should make sure that you know that that's not the worship music. And you know that that is
actually the spirit influencing you before you make big grandiose spiritual decisions or say that
you've had a vision from God or speaking tongues or something, right? Like, and this was something
that if I expressed other people was really met with not just criticism, but like
oppression, suppression, people hated if I ever asked this question growing up.
Eventually I get to college and realize that there are mechanisms that have been studied within the
brain, you know, like sociologist Emil Durkheim talked about collective effervescence. There
were scientific type terms and understandings of what was going on when people were interacting with
that spiritual group or experience, right? And, and that the difference between
a spiritual experience and a naturalistic but heightened experience, like
the lines just blurred. I didn't know if I could possibly tell the difference between
those anymore and that I'm sure as someone who, you know, was Pentecostal and really cared about
experience, you can understand that's like kind of terrifying to go through, right?
Yeah, that's, I've never heard of that term before. I don't know what it is,
what you just said. I don't know, I'm trying to repeat it.
Yeah, collective effervescence. Collective effervescence. I'm so bad at pronouncing things.
But there's many occasions like, okay, I'll give you, I'll give you an occasion of like,
I can relate so much like spiritual experiences at like conferences, planet shakers,
Hillsong, went to a Hillsong men's conference, you know, we spoke in tongues a lot, like it was
very much about spirit based stuff. And it's two things. There was one, one, I noticed that after
you get after that first wave of when someone gets saved or has that first personal experience,
and they have a few years of being zealous, zealous or like being really, really, really passionate,
they becomes like a lull in their faith and they kind of need it. It's like they need to chase the
dragon almost. I've even seen people say, I needed this, they go to a Bethel conference and like,
I needed this, or I wouldn't be able to get through the day without the church and things
like that, because it's like, and this is part of, this will get me into some hot water, but I
think that that's what a lot of vegans go through as well. They'll become vegan for, I'm a vegetarian,
so both sides hate me, but they'll become a vegan, you know, a vegan will choose ethics for
animals or something, right? And then those initial feelings they had that caused them to
make that decision kind of start to dwindle, so they lose their power. And so they get into activism
as a way of strengthening their veganism, strengthening their moral, their feelings
about the subject where they continue to tell people about it. And I think that's why they've
become annoying to people, because that's kind of comes a religious movement at that stage.
And you know, I'm sure I'm going to have a lot of people reach out and tell me I'm an idiot,
and that's fine. But that's just some thoughts I had. But anyway, the situation I've had once,
I remember like being at a Planet Shakers conference, and you know,
Judah Smith was preaching, and Planet Shakers is similar to Hillsong in Australia. And I was
there with my younger brother who was sitting a couple of steps, a couple of seats away from me,
and the preach was fine, everything. And then at the end of the worship, I heard God tell me,
get down the front and repent for XYZ, I can't remember what it was. I was like, all right, God.
And I walked out, walked straight down the stairs, and I got on the ground on my knees,
and I was praying. And there was so many people down the bottom that they had to,
there was a 360 stage, because they had to knock out the walls and bring more people in,
like this place was wild, and there was a 360 degree, like people just on their knees around
the front of the stage. And I looked over, and a few people away from me was my younger brother who
wasn't, who was having his kind of spiritual experience on his knee, and I started crying.
I was speaking in these tongues that I don't normally speak in. Later that night, a friend of
mine said, I saw the Lord's angels tonight, and like text me, and I was like, cool, man,
thinking like, and then later I found out, no, no, he physically saw them. He saw them flying
around the auditorium, and then there was a big cross that appeared on stage, and they flew down
to the bottom of the cross, and they were grabbing pools of blood from the bottom of the cross,
and they were flicking on all the people that were on their knees on the ground. And I said,
that must be why I was speaking in different tongues, because, you know, so like, I've had some
experiences, but so psychologically, like, how would, if I was like a, if I was coming to you
as a, as a counselor or a psychologist, I said, what was that? Can you, can you have a best,
best guess at what was going on there? Oh, man, I mean, so it's like, how deep of an explanation
or, or, I guess, speculation should I, should I try to give here? So I think I'll do, I'll do it,
like, kind of, kind of simply so that I'm not, you know, citing things that I are beyond my,
my depth here. But basically, humans are social species, like we have entire parts of our brains,
we have entire neurons that have to do with imitating people around us, even subconsciously
imitating people around us, being able to intuit other people's emotions, you know,
people are empathic, you can understand another person's emotions without communication a lot
of the time or without purposeful conscious communication. And if you, especially if you
know people, that's especially heightened, when someone else has a certain kind of emotion,
you will inevitably take on a similar emotion a lot of the time, again, especially if you're
close to them. And if there's a lot of people around, and there's something that's heightening
their emotions, like music, like, like these incredible stories and incredible bits of imagery,
like you're talking about, then we, you know, it starts with a few people starting to get
a bit riled up. And then that feeds into another person getting riled up and another person and
another person and another person. And basically, it's a chain reaction of emotion all going on.
And then what happens when there's a room full of people that are feeling slightly heightened?
Well, then there's this group of people that are all starting to influencing each other to get even
more heightened and more heightened and more heightened. Like when you go to a concert,
I'm sure that just about everybody listening here has gone to a concert where they felt super,
super hyped. Now, I ask you, if you were at the concert, and it was just you, or just you and
like one other person, and the band play the exact way that they did, would you have gotten as hyped
as you did in your experience without the whole crowd there? Or was the crowd there a part of it?
My guess would be that the crowd is just as big or bigger and in a factor in making you feel a
certain way. And I think the reason why Pentecostalism does so, so well now, it's one of the fastest
growing religious denominations in the entire world, is that they're extremely good. They've
figured out like this technique to get people really riled up in a room, very emotional. And
when people get really, really, really emotional, it kind of becomes like being on drugs. So you
have this huge group of people all experiencing something that's very different than everyday
life. They're all, it's like this giant feedback loop where they're basically all tripping together.
And when your friend says that he saw whatever, like, I believe him. I think, yeah, when our
brains get in these super heightened emotional states, we see and think all kinds of things.
Now this can be very helpful to a person potentially, you know, it can give them
like a high that can give them motivation in life. It can make them potentially believe in
themselves. It can make them believe in their community, have strong feelings for their community.
It can also be used by the people who are eliciting these experiences to kind of use
this whole group of people like a spiritual army to do their bidding. Like that's what Hillsong
is for sure. And so, you know, like getting people hyped up like this, this is a technique,
this is technology that people have figured out and people have known about for thousands,
if not hundreds of thousands of years, right? And it's very difficult to get people to believe that
what's going on here can be explained pretty well naturalistically. We don't really need
spiritual explanations for this to make sense of it. Because when you've had a really heightened
experience, you know, you saw angels, you saw blood pouring from the cross, like,
you don't want someone coming and telling you that, oh, that was like chemicals in your brain.
No, man, I saw the cross. Exactly. I even used to think like, how can I remember one of my first
experiences, I remember looking at people kind of convulsing on the ground and all that stuff,
and I said, I can never deny this. I can never deny what's happening here. I don't deny it,
but I don't think it's, I don't ascribe it to the same things that were happening at,
but I thought at the time. But I lost my train of thought. I lost my train of thought. What did
you say right before? No, I'm just saying it's hard to convince people that or even like say in
front of a person who's seen angels and crosses and everything that there could be
naturally explanations for this. What I was going to say is, you know, I can never deny it,
but what I kind of started to think about was like the Beatles. Like, if you notice,
like, if you've seen footage of like, back in the day, people would pass out when the Beatles
would like come on stage or, you know, and it's like, were they having a spiritual experience?
Well, what was going on for them? You know, because like, a lot of people would actually
say that it's demonic. Like that's, that's the answer that a lot of people would give.
So did you ever speak in tongues or anything like that? So my denomination did not believe
in speaking in tongues for like regular people. We believed that there had to be an interpreter
there and there had to be in this very specific context. And so we didn't believe that this was
something that a regular person would do to indicate that they had the spirit. This was like
a very, very specific and very rare miracle that God would perform when, for some reason,
we needed his intervention in order to like prophesy something. But I mean, we would say,
oh, yes, it can happen. But like, effectively, everybody in the church was like, all claims of
speaking in tongues are all nonsense, except for the story of Pentecost in the Bible.
Hmm. Okay. That's interesting. There's so many different denominations of Christianity, isn't
there? When you were learning, when you're kind of deconstructing and you're still, you're still
on that kind of path, was there a moment like, do you remember your last kind of prayer to God?
Or do you still sometimes pray or like, even though you don't necessarily believe, like,
do you remember, because you're having this conversation with God, I need to investigate
this and praying all the time. And then eventually, you no longer believe. How did you,
where did the prayer stop along that path? Oh, God, it's a really, really hard question,
but it's a good one to kind of get the, get the story fleshed that out. I mean, I should say that,
you know, when you've been reflexively and just naturally praying for your whole life,
it doesn't go away when you stop believing that there's a reason to do it. So I think that
the reflexive me beginning a prayer, or even me getting through a whole prayer,
probably didn't stop until I had been doing my YouTube channel for at least two years.
So it had been well over three years before I stopped reflexively praying. So when people would
be like, Oh, you know, you just want to do this or, you know, that you, you just have always been
an atheist or whatever. It's like, man, when I was making this video, when I was writing this
script, I would reflexively pray and be like, you know, dear Jesus, please help me to get the
right words to say this well, to touch people's lives. And then it would be like, what am I,
why did that start automatically? I put the same thing on out when we were, when we were having
a baby, I was like, I had Jesus freak going through my head. And I would like, it was such an
important moment that I would, I would like keep thinking about praying or like kept and I was
like, what's, what's going on? Like, do I, it was like a moment of unfaith, like, was I doubting
my unfaith? Like, what was going on here? It was, it was actually really like confusing. So let me
just, let me just show your channel. So if anyone hasn't, doesn't know your channel. So these are
your oldest videos. So you're saying that in, in these videos and these, yeah, is atheism prideful,
march for science, Dallas, like these, these kind of thing you're praying during this time.
Oh yeah. Yeah. Like if I couldn't get a line in, in those early videos, you know, I didn't have
like a teleprompter or anything. So I just had to like, I would write kind of a loose script and
then look at it and then like, look over that the camera and try to get it right and be like,
dear Jesus, please help me get it right. Like, please help me do this line. I'm going to be like,
I'm literally talking about how I don't believe in God right now.
I know that's so, does that ever cause you to think like, maybe I don't, maybe I do still believe?
Yeah. I mean, it did raise that question in my head. Like maybe, you know, maybe it is my spirit
or maybe it really is deep down Jesus trying to communicate with me. And I have, when I,
when I say this inevitably Christians, certain Christians always say, oh, that's Jesus speaking
to you and you're just denying it. And, and no, it's not me denying it. I, it's me realizing that
any behavior that you are indoctrinated to carry out kind of habitually and compulsively,
almost in an unhealthy way every day until you're in your early twenties as I was, like,
you're just going to do that in any behavior that I was programmed that heavily to do that
regularly. Like I would have done, you know, even if I didn't want to anymore. And you know,
it's just like a habit, like anything else. And, and so I, I had to remind myself that like
the, the way to confirm that this, in fact, is the spirit, this is Jesus, this is something like
that speaking to me is to think that and then believe it because there's no critical analysis
that you can do. I mean, can you test whether or not it's Jesus? Can you, can you test whether
or not it's God? Are there, are there other explanations you could possibly give that could
lead you to that? No, I mean, the way that you search something out and figure out what is truth
in the context of a spiritual experience like that is to just throw up a bunch of different
narratives and then arbitrarily choose one. I mean, you, you, you could always be wrong
that it's, that it is the spirit or that it's not the spirit, or you could even be wrong that,
oh, maybe this was a demon. How would I possibly know demons are great at deception? This could be
a demon making me pray and, you know, a law is actually the true God or like Vishnu is the true
God. So I, I had to realize like, okay, I have better methods for thinking through these things
critically. It's okay if I believe in God, and it's okay if I don't, let's go, go through this
and examine this calmly and see whether or not, you know, this experience that I've just had
is best or only explained through me believing that it was Jesus. And I would do that over and
over, like really trying to do my homework, you know, and I just, I kept landing on,
you can't be sure, there's no way to be 100% sure with these types of things, but
I mean, I was trained to do this. I also, you know, if I bump into someone, I say, oh, sorry,
is that Jesus telling me to do it? Or is it just a habit?
Yeah, you know. What is something you didn't expect when you finally did construct it?
Like when you like had this idea of like what an atheist is or what someone who didn't believe is,
and then you finally kind of got to that spot, what is something that you didn't expect?
Probably how incredibly difficult it was to think differently, to behave differently,
to feel comfortable around things that I was taught to feel uncomfortable around.
Like you're asking the question earlier about like alcohol versus water and the
atheist and Christian guests and all that. I thought, you know, you leave Christianity,
and my form of Christianity didn't believe in drinking alcohol. Like it was very similar to
Islam in that way, like it's not okay in any context. And Jesus in fact didn't drink alcoholic
wine, you know, it was just grape juice. It was Welch's back in the day. And
I thought that as soon as I stopped believing that and left Christianity that I would just be like,
no, I mean, alcohol is fine. I feel totally comfortable being in a bar, which I had never
been in before, obviously. I'd be fine with people drinking around me, all that kind of thing. And
no, I mean, it wasn't until God, early last year or a little bit before that, that I could be
in a bar and not get like almost panic attack level anxious because there was alcohol around me.
And even now, you know, like I, I have water because I just don't feel comfortable enough
to drink in a scenario where I'm not around people that I'm not in a scenario where I'm like,
super, super ultra comfortable. And I know there's a lot of room for error and I trust every single
person in the situation. And it's like, obviously, I know that speaking with you and speaking with
your audience would be a safe place for me to like have a beer. But I know that if I went into
that situation, that would be in the back of my head. And I get super anxious. And so yeah, I mean,
it's, it's, and, you know, not to speak of things surrounding like sex, you know, and just like
in modesty, being around you being in Austin, we have every, every body of water is a topless
beach here. And so, you know, like, I like girls, but that was super uncomfortable for me to be
around like at first, right? But one of the reasons I also like being in this place is because it
kind of forces me to confront the things that I wasn't really comfortable with or, or really
aware of in any substantial way before I left Christianity. So yeah, I would just say like
changing the reflexive behavior and thought patterns that you have.
Yeah, that's, that's actually interesting. I, I used to, when I was a teenager, before I kind of
had my spiritual experiences, I was still brought up as a Christian, and I would still have huge
anxiety around drinking. I mean, I shouldn't be drinking at 15 or 14 or however old I was anyway.
But I had huge anxiety or like every time there was a party, I would not enjoy the party until
it was kind of over. And I was like walking home at like midnight or something, you know, like it,
it was, it was very similar. Even now, I think if I go to a club, besides the fact that I don't
like clubs that are like loud, you can't talk to each other and things like that, I still don't feel
very comfortable either. But yeah, and like, this is a bit personal for me. But for me, when, you
know, my wife and I, we, we the first time, you know, I had had sex previously, but the first
time we had sex together was on our wedding night. And, and it took a long time, long time. In fact,
no, it's probably not even, it's not even, I'm not even fully over it. But for the most part,
when we would have sex as a married couple, I would get anxiety around sex. So I would get anxious
leading up to having sex, or I'd get anxious before having sex, after having sex, sorry.
Yeah, I think that that's super common. Like I, you know, for me, that wasn't my experience,
because I was just like, I've been with my now wife since I was 18, you know, and so we were like so
connected and so close, and so much closer with each other than with anyone we'd ever been,
you know, even our own, you know, parents or whatever. So I didn't have that experience
specifically, but almost all of my friends had that, the Christian friends had that experience.
So you're absolutely not alone in that at all. Yeah, 100%. I think it was the constant,
you know, I was, I was an aficionado of adult content, pornography. I liked born as a teenager,
obviously. And, and it was the constant like, forgive me God. And then, you know, and that constant
like guilt, I think circle that you just go through that was just like so like anything to do with
sex eventually became really, really taboo. And it actually took a long time of de stigmatizing a lot
of thoughts and, and perspectives that actually helped me heal from a lot of that stuff.
Yeah, it was wild. It's wild. What it's wild, what religion can do to someone, not just religion,
but like certain belief systems, you know, yeah, for me, my, my big one was that I think it's,
again, it's probably been in the last like two or three years that I can finally like if there's
someone there that I find attractive, like I can look over and like think that they look good without
my eyes physically burning. Like, you know, when I, when I was a Christian, it's like I was told
that you're, you're stealing from a woman if you look at her and lost and, and these kinds of things.
And you know, of course, like, I don't think that people should be objectified. And I think that
you should, you know, have healthy boundaries when you are like, if you're like, ogling someone or
whatever, right? They're, they're right and wrong ways to do this. But the way that I was taught
was just so extreme that it became physically painful for me to like look, if I found a girl's
face attractive, then looking at her would hurt almost. Really? It was like, it was shameful.
And, and yeah, so, and now it's, it's like, I was actually thinking this like last week, I like
look over and I'm like, oh, like, you know, she looks attractive. And I was like, wow, I'm not in
any sort of discomfort at all. And it's like, not, not a big deal. And so yeah, that's, that's
kind of my, my big thing when it comes to sex with changing my, my mentality.
It's because you taught that like, looking at someone with lust is the same as like sleeping
with them, essentially, like, yeah. And just a little murder.
Yeah. So like, there were times when there were times when I like, you know, I would look at
someone with lust and I'll be like, well, like we're in the church cafe and I would see someone
like, oh, they're attractive. And I'm like, what do I do? Like, I just noticed they're attractive.
I'm in the house of God. This is ridiculous. I need to repent again. Like, and it's, it's like
this, this, this doom cycle. And now my wife and I have heated, heated debates about who has the
best boobs in Westeros. We, you know, like, it's great. It's great. Like we, it's actually really
nice to be able to, you know, we're both in a monogamous relationship. And we can
point out people that we find attractive. Like that person is attractive. It's like, really?
I'm more of a Brad Pitt kind of man myself, you know, like, you know, do that.
It's very true. Like it's just like when, when it comes to porn, when it comes to finding people
attractive, when it has, comes to conversations about sex, like with your partner or with, or
just with friends, whatever, like it used to be so incredibly heavy and, and just so painful.
And now the fact that it's not painful almost makes some of those things less
habitually or compulsively enticing. Like I've talked about on my channel that for me, you know,
like when I was more a teenager, porn would be something that if I had like a thought
or I saw like a pop-up ad, you know, I, I could usually like swat it away, but it would come
creeping back. And then inevitably I'd be like, I, I can't, I can't do anything until I like
look at porn basically. And now it's like that I can just look at porn. It's just,
that's just not how it works. Like, do I want to? Is it the, is it the vibe? Like does Taylor want
to come in? You know, like whatever, like it's, it is a situation that I have so much more control
over now that I don't think about it in this kind of pseudo magical way, right?
Yeah. No, I, I, I can so, I mean, I can so agree. And there's so many, there's so many,
and she'll be okay with me showing us some short because we've talked about, we did a
purity culture stream with a bunch of people. And it was, it was great. And we talked about this,
but it's like, it's like, we have moments where it's like, you know, one of us will be having a
alone time and it'll be like, and it'll be like, yeah, I'm going to have some alone time and it's
like, oh, okay, like, do you want me to join in or do you want me to like, and it's like, you know,
it's very, if there's no like, oh my God, like my eyes are for my wife or my, you know, it's
not, none of that. It's just, it's very, you do something, you know, you have some fun, you get
on with your day. Yeah. If you feel like, you know, and it's, it's good. It's like, it's really
enjoyable. It's really, really free. Yeah. Wow. So, so this is a random, this is a very smooth pivot
into your scientific activism. So you speak a lot, right? And you used to do a lot. You started out
mainly doing this, as far as I can remember, talking about your, your don't jumping into the
world of, of essential oils. Can you tell us a little bit about your journey and like, how that
relates to your deconstruction? Yeah. So just, I had loved ones very close to me that were super
into this multi-level marketing company called Young Living Essential Oils. And it was actually,
you know, this, this was going on. They started getting into this when my wife and I were both
still Christian. And before we were married, actually. But my wife saw all of this and, you
know, had been given the sales pitch a bunch of times. And she's a very, very cautious, critical
thinker. She always has been. I think that she's more that way than I am. And she started looking
into the company. Like, is this something we want to do? Since like, there's so many people we know
into this. And she, she found pretty quickly that, you know, the leader, Gary Young, the leader of
this company, had like, drowned his own baby when trying to deliver it, had attempted murder with
an ax on someone, had hopped from country to country as he got arrested for a practicing
medicine without a license, had started up like cancer cure clinics that basically ended up being
shut down after a sting operation where he offered to cure a woman's cancer, you know, like
instantaneously with this like bullshit cure. And the woman turned out to be a police officer
undercover. Like, this guy has. Wait, really? Yeah, this guy had a super. Yeah. And, and, and then
not only that, you know, like we, we saw that and we were like, Oh God, that's enough to where we're
like, no way. But I, as I, as I said, I at that time, like, was finishing up my degree in psychology
and a huge part of getting a psychology degree, at least for me was taking a year long course in
statistics and research methods. It's like basically the nitty gritty of how to do a scientific
experiment and analysis. So this was like, the most tedious way I'd ever learned about science for
a whole year of my life was very intensive. And in, in learning about all that, like, I was
listening to all the claims that the people I knew and the people in the company were making
about what the oils could do. And I'm like, this is anecdotal evidence. Like, can you show me a
randomized controlled trial where they're applying this and, you know, they're comparing it to placebo,
a control group, all that. And they're like, what is, what does that mean? I have no idea what you
mean. And I'd look up studies on, you know, research databases of medical research and,
and nothing. I mean, people would pour an oil on a cell culture, and a cell culture would die,
like a bacterial culture would die. And then they'd be like, it has magical, you know, miraculous
antimicrobial properties. And it's like, yeah, so does tequila. Like, come on, this is, this is crazy.
And, and the more I talked about this stuff with my family, the more it became clear to me that this
was not a scientific, you know, conclusion or critical thought type of conclusion they came to,
this was a religious type of devotion they had. And as you can imagine me realizing that they
had religious devotion to this thing, that it was like, clearly ridiculous to my wife and I,
made me think, oh, am I like that? Like with Christianity? You know, I do think that you
have to be careful not to have fake spiritual experiences when you are worshiping. Maybe
there's more to it than just that. Maybe I need to look into the stuff more, maybe personal
experiences with the oils and personal experience with God is like not that dissimilar. And,
and yeah, so that that contributed to me really questioning my own faith because I didn't want
to have like hurl accusations toward, you know, friends and family. And meanwhile, I wasn't dealing
with the log in my own eye, you know. So do you so it's actually the subject of pseudoscience is
like, is quite big. There are like, there are a list of like, you know, pseudoscientific ideas or
wives tales that are kind of, you know, they're okay. They're like, they're not, they're not
doing any harm. There's things like, you know, knuckle cracking causes arthritis.
Or eating carrots improves, you know, vision and shaving makes your hair grow back thicker. You
can't swim 30 minutes after eating. Humans only use thymus in other brains. They're like,
things that I don't think are true. I mean, I got chat GTP to write that out. But so it could
fact check it because it's actually, but, but, you know, I asked for like a list of not really
harmful pseudoscientific ideas. But the problem is, is when you kind of move into ideas that are,
that, you know, there may be, I don't correct me for wrong, there may be people who will
forego medical treatment based on the essential oils. They'll say, no, the essential oils are
healing me, they're detoxing me. Therefore, I don't need to go through chemotherapy or something,
right? Yeah, yeah, absolutely. And with the essential oils, you know, they, they ran the
whole spectrum of replacements, you know, there were people that were selling oils online, certain
blends of certain oils they got from the company, and they were selling them as what they called
morphine blend. So you should, you should throw out all of the painkillers in your entire house.
And when this happens, even when you're recovering from surgery,
then you should use these oils in order to kill pain and they work just as well as opiates.
You know, there's problems with using painkillers, like there are side effects.
There can be like, you know, abuse and addiction and those kinds of things. Yes.
But if you just had some sort of like organ transplant or like a skin graft or something
really painful and difficult, if you don't have any kind of painkiller in your house,
this is going to be a serious problem. And often, the people who are applying these things,
and the people who are getting them apply, you know, were mothers and children, respectively.
So these are mothers saying, no, no, no, I know that you're in pain, but this is going to,
this is going to help and you're not going to feel in pain anymore.
Mommy, this still hurts. No, well, I must have just done it wrong. So I'm going to redo it.
Well, I think that this is just in your head. You know, I saw this play out in front of me.
There were also people who would have serious infections because they wouldn't go to the doctor
or bacterial infections like bacterial pneumonia, because they wouldn't use antibiotics,
they would try to just use essential oils, which have miraculous antimicrobial properties
to heal these things. And yeah, there were people in the company that died because of this,
you know, if you get if you get strep bad enough, and you just use like,
they usually used a mix of like mostly clove oil with a few other things,
and they would spray it on the back of their throat or put it in water and drink it.
Not only does it exacerbate sores, I know that's from firsthand experience,
but it doesn't kill something like strep. And strep can spread and it can kill you.
Pneumonia can spread and it can kill you. And this did happen.
But it's kind of like what we were talking about earlier, when you bring up cases like this and
go, Hey, we shouldn't replace medicine with the oils, even if you think that, you know,
they're generally good for you. People in the company, you know, my loved ones included would
be like, Why are you questioning me? Why are you questioning this? Why do you hate me?
And it's like, Whoa, no, I like I love you. This is why I'm bringing it up. I care about
people. That's why I bring it up. And sometimes that demands we think critically, you know, but
that people don't take that well when they have like a religious level devotion to something like
this. Yeah, there's a, and it's not just like essential oils. There's so much, you know, I have,
I have family members who really believe that cancer is a fungus that can be healed with
bicarb soda. And they know people who have gone through the treatment and set like personally
and say that it's healed them. And it's like, Oh, it's like how like, how do you do you kind of
reach someone like that? Who who has like a like an actual experience. And of course, this doesn't,
I don't know the details of this case. I didn't know if it was in remission anyway. I don't know
if they also did other forms of therapy or, you know, chemotherapy or whatever. We don't know
if it was spontaneous remission. We don't know. So but, but it's like, how do you reach someone
who is convinced, I guess, that well, I know someone who was healed by essential oils, healed
by homeopathy, healed by, I don't know, what's that thing that Trump was going on about? Hydro,
hydro, the, the, oh yeah, hydrochloroquine or something. Yeah, which by the way, how to pronounce
that one. But yeah, super interesting that when he got, you know, the C word, he was rushed straight
to the hospital and given the best care. He wasn't drinking any of that, you know, stuff. So
that was interesting. But, but not so good going about that. Like I could talk about Trump's
rights. But yeah, so how do you, how would you engage with someone like that? Do you have any
advice for engaging with someone like that? Yeah, I, I honestly, I think my biggest piece of advice,
you know, I should say full disclaimer, like, I have never been able to convince my specific
loved ones that these things are nonsense. I never have and I don't ever anticipate
to just because the, the way that they think and the way that I think are so different that
there's no way for me to question this kind of stuff without them thinking that this is nothing
but a personal attack and that even if they can't answer my questions, that's not really a problem
because God told them to use the oils, you know, like I, I've not gotten through to them specifically.
There have been people that I've been able to have conversations with and gotten somewhere.
I think my main piece of advice would just be to realize that beliefs like this, especially if
they're rooted in kind of like a pseudo spiritual way or way of thinking, you're not going to have
one or two or three or five or 10 conversations where their ideas, their thinking about this
topic is going to do a 180 or even change substantially. I think what has the most efficacy
here is a person who has these ideas feeling comfortable talking to someone who is somewhat
skeptical or critical openly. And if you're able to have that kind of social connection with someone,
then sure you might be able to speak about these kinds of things with them and give your
perspective and that might be influential that I've heard that happen. I've had that happen
with me before, but I really think the thing that's most influential is a person having these ideas
about, you know, pseudo science or alternative medicine and then knowing someone who doesn't
have those ideas and in fact is very against it. And yet, you know, you see that skeptical person
as good and smart. I think that the way that we form our beliefs as human beings who are fallible
has more to do with who we see as someone that should be emulated than it has to do with critical
thought or information most of the time. And so if you can be a person that someone would go,
you know, I think that they're like, they're generally well informed, like they're a careful
thinker and they're nice to me. I think they're a good person. You know, I think that you're a
lot more likely to think, how would this person see it when you hear a new claim? Rather than if
that person had just given you, you know, a huge information dump about why you shouldn't believe
in essential oils or something. One of the things I used to always say, well, I said a lot when I
was deconstructing is people don't give a shit about reality. And I said that because I was
getting so frustrated with like, we were going through the same sex marriage plebiscite in
Australia and I would bring and they'll be like, it's going to ruin the kids. And I'm like, well,
here are some studies that show it doesn't ruin kids. In fact, a lot of them, a lot of the kids
fair better than with heterosexual parents. Like, so I mean, it just, it just shows that parents
and parents, right? And then they didn't care. And it was, it was a big thing for me to discover
that a lot of people didn't actually care. And people don't change their beliefs because of facts
and data. A lot of the time people change their beliefs because they want to conform to the communities
that are around them. And that's, that's, it's like a sticky, it's like a web. If you, like,
if I say, if you said, I'm a progressive left wing person, then I could almost pick the beliefs
that you will have, even if you haven't thought about specific things, you kind of look at your
surroundings and go, this is, this is who I identify with. And that's, that's, that was something
that bothered me. I'm not saying that I was immune from that. But when I started to discover the
scientific method, I was like, okay, we should build a worldview based on, you know, information,
based on looking at things and analyzing them. And if we don't know, we should say, I don't know.
But it was really frustrating when I discovered that not only I didn't do that in the past,
and I probably, but, but people just didn't do that, didn't care, didn't care to do that.
Like, even if you'd explained to them, like, there's a problem here. And you're thinking
they would just see it as an attack. A great example I had once is, I had a family member come in and
say, they were on some new form of multivitamin. And the multivitamin was, they were saying,
it's amazing, your XYZ, we feel so much better every day. And I said, and I was getting really
interested in the scientific method. And I thought, Oh, that's interesting. I was like,
I wonder if you could run an experiment where you gave someone a pill, this multivitamin,
and then you gave someone else a different multivitamin, and then you gave someone else
a sugar pill, nothing. And then you recorded the results. And then like, and my brother was there,
and I was, we're talking, and I was like, Yeah, and then you could do this. And we'll talk about
the scientific method. And the person got offended at this and said, Well, if you, if you do this,
and you find out something, I don't want to hear about it. And I was like, Whoa, whoa, like,
like, in my mind, I'm trying to support their claim. I'm like, Oh, this would be great. You're
saying that it's doing all these amazing things for you. Like, we could, we could prove it, you know,
and they're seeing it as an attack. And I'm like, Whoa, like, and it was, it was this weird
disconnect of like, like, I'm on your side, like, I'm trying to prove that these work. And you're
saying you don't want to hear about it. Like it was, it was very, it was very interesting. Yeah.
Yeah, I've, I mean, I have had that exact same experience, like, to a tee. You know, you can
totally speak for me. I have said the exact same thing about I wonder if we could run an experience,
because I thought that this was a nice fluffy, nice, like, kind way of putting it. No, it was,
it was seen as an attack. I feel you on that. It's amazing, isn't it? So there's something I
mentioned that I wanted to bring up and I haven't, and it's, you know, trigger warning, we're going,
I'm going to talk a little bit about some violence against women domestic abuse. But this is a story
that I wanted to share that I think drives home the importance of, well, the dangers of pseudoscience.
So my mother called her before this and I asked if I could tell the story and she said yes,
she wants me to my mother for a short time was in a relationship with a
with someone for a very short time. And this person had some mental issues. I think of bipolar
schizophrenia, some, some stuff. I don't know if there's with exact things. And they would see a
homeopath to deal with some of these things. They're on normal medication as well. And at one stage,
in our childhood, you know, I was probably grade five or something, they started doing
some really weird stuff. They would close the blinds because the neighbors were watching us,
they would throw sticks at the neighbors when they were mowing the lawn and then they would
write them a letter saying, sorry for throwing a stick at you. They would send my youngest brother
to bed at like 11am and then wake them up an hour later for jelly that be up all night making
this huge extravagant breakfast for everyone like literally up all night.
And, and it was it was quite wild and and on many occasions they would,
my mom was it became in a really was in a relationship with someone who was domestically
this domestic violence was there was hitting. And it got so bad that I was told never to come out
and during those events to stay in my bedroom, I got to the point where one night I, I,
I was in bed and I could hear my mom being beaten. And I thought to myself,
I woke up from the noise and I thought, oh, I just got to roll over and go to sleep. And I
tried to roll over and go to sleep. And, and that's how common it was. And I then heard the person
say, I'm sorry, my mom's name, I'm going to have to kill you. And my mom was screaming and I was
kind of panicking. I got out of bed, I put my clothes on, I jumped out the window, I ran the
three separate houses on the third house, someone came to the door and they called the police and
an ambulance and all that. It was rough. I think it was probably an empty threat, but it was
still scary for someone in grade five. It was, you know, and my mom came out blood all over her
face, you know, just, just a mess and went to the hospital. So only recently, I was talking to
mom about this and found out the reason why this person that my mom was dating was doing these
things was because they went off their medication. And why did they go off their medication? Because
their, their, what is the homeopath told them that they were now healed because of the
homeopathic medicine that they've been taking. They said, well, you must be healed because
we've done the course. So you're good. You don't need to be on this other medication.
Yeah. And so, you know, there was a while where before I was, there was a while where
before I was ready to kind of come out as an atheist online, I was writing under a pseudonym
and, and writing blogs. And one of the, one of the blogs I never finished was titled,
homeopathy nearly killed my mother because it's true. If, if that person wasn't told that
by the homeopath, then they wouldn't have been off their medication. They wouldn't have beaten
my mother. And I mean, like the real world consequences to pseudoscientific beliefs.
Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. No, I mean, first of all, I'm so sorry that you and your mother had to go
through that. I am glad that you guys are in a place where, you know, she feels comfortable even
with, you know, you guys talking about them and you talking about it here, I think it shows that
there's some healing that's been done. But I do think it's important. Yeah, I think it's important
that these stories get, get told, you know, because it's so common, you know, if you were to write
that blog, like people would still probably say, Oh, you know, like, what's really the harm,
the oils smell good, the homeopathy, it's just water, like let people do their thing,
stop bothering people about their weird hobbies. And it's like, I mean, yeah, for some people,
that's what it is. But for other people, it's not getting chemo, or like, you know, not getting
their proper meds and endangering another person. And it's also like, stories like this, I see in
my comments, you know, often make people think like, Oh, the homeopath must be a complete,
like psychopath with absolutely no empathy whatsoever, complete manipulator, they only
care about, you know, the couple hundred bucks they would make off of a person, they don't
care about anybody's outcomes. And sometimes that's absolutely true. Like for the guy I was talking
about the wannabe axe murderer cult leader, you know, malpract medical malpractice guy,
yeah, like I think that he was a complete like cycle. He's still on the website, by the way.
I just I bring it up before and he's Dr. D Gary young young living foundations him.
So I thought you're gonna say that he's like being, you know,
Yes, read his name again for me as you did. Sorry, read his name again for me as you did just now.
Dr. D Gary young.
Yeah. Yeah, so his name is Donald Gary young. He does not have any sort of doctorate,
but he always prints his name that way. It makes you think it says doctor, right?
Did I say doctor? Yeah. Yeah, everyone thinks that he has some kind of doctorate.
And it's because he puts that first initial, the thing is, though, this was actually the very,
very, very first thing that I ever brought up to any of any of my loved ones. Like,
you know how he always says D Gary young? What does that mean? And they're like,
Oh, it's like, you know, like he has degrees and stuff. And, and then I like, look it up.
And I'm like, actually, his first name is just Donald. He doesn't have degrees.
And they're like, Oh, okay, it's just Donald. And I'm like, don't think that like,
you know, you and everyone else that thinks that like was kind of led to think that intentionally.
And they're like, Oh, no, that's my mistake. Like, obviously, he would never do that.
And I'm like, look at, look at all this criminal history. And they're like, Oh,
that's all been doctored. That's all, that's all propaganda by the FDA, like in the American
Food and Drug Administration, that's trying to get him off the map so that they can like spread
cancer so they can make money off of it. He has the true cure to everything and, you know,
cut some of their bottom line. And it's like, and he's selling stuff. That's what bothers me.
Yeah, it's like the same thing that he's criticizing other people are doing.
Yeah, they, they, it's like, he's leads with this obviously deceptive tactic, but you,
you bring it up and not only has he done it in a way which gives him plausible deniability,
right? Like, Oh, I didn't say I was a doctor. I never said that I was a doctor publicly.
You just made the mistake by seeing D dot in front of my name. My name's just Donald.
Like no one cares about their name being Donald that much. I'm sorry.
Well, one person. But yeah, but to get back to like what I was saying is sometimes, yeah,
these people are complete psychopaths. They're, they're lunatics that like want to purposely
rip off everyone because they care about money and really nothing else. But there are a lot of
people and I think like my loved ones included that genuinely really, really care about other
people. They really want to help people and they think that this is the way to do it. They just
don't have enough education or critical thinking skills to realize that saying, Hey, do this,
instead of getting chemo is a horrible piece of advice. And they also have kind of like,
they, when they learn from these kind of like complete psychopaths that are leading cults like
this, they, they take on the narratives like, Oh, you know, well, that person under my care did die.
But it was actually all of the carcinogens that the American government puts into the
water that killed them. It wasn't my like treatment and bad health advice. So really good-hearted,
caring people will find ways to be free of blame in their own eyes. And that's one of the things
that really has sickened me the most about this. Yeah. And you know, you know how I was
mentioning before how I have family members who say that they know someone who was healed by
the cancer, the fungus guy, when you look him up online, it's he's in prison for killing someone,
right? But what was infuriating about this is I mentioned it to these people, they contacted him
and he said, it's all lies. I'm not in prison. And he's not. And his website that I was sourcing
was actually like, like, well, it was wrong on how many years he was spending in jail. I think he
has, he has gone to jail, but, but it was wrong. So this gave them like plausible like, like, oh,
yep, the media is after them or whatever. So I reached out to this person, Dr. Simon Cheney,
whatever his name is. And I said, Hey, you know, I'm about to buy your book. Is there anything in
your book? Is there any studies in your book or anything? Like, you know, and they essentially
went off with me and said that those studies cost thousands of dollars and, you know, and you need
to be an organization and all this stuff. And I was like, well, you know, not really. Like, I was
like, all you need to, well, even I was like, even if you had your own studies, even if you were just
like, we're going to test someone's cancer with, you know, washing them with bicarb soda, and then
we're going to test someone's cancer washing it with just water and see if there's a difference.
Like, you could do something like that. Like, have you done anything like that?
Apparently, God told them how to, how to cure the cancer. So yeah, it's wild. So I'm going on a
little bit of a rant. I'm normally, normally this is the alcohol that gets me to do rants,
but talking about this stuff gets me. No, I'm really glad that you brought that up specifically
because that exact narrative that, oh, it's too expensive. And that, you know, the big companies,
like, they can do this because they all they care about is profit, you know, science is really
just driven by profit. And that's it. Like, that's the exact verbatim narrative that young living
essential oil uses as a company that's worth over $17 billion. And they're on the decline
right now. Like, and they still say, Oh, no, like, really large scale, you know, like enough
randomized controlled trials to have a whole meta analysis of the efficacy of essential oils,
we could never afford that. Meanwhile, they spend like, you know, hundreds of millions of dollars
just on their annual conference to rent out like a basically a whole city,
just so that they can have all of their people come and like, watch Gary Young's dead now. But
back then, like, ride a horse onto stage and get up and give like this big speech about how
God told him to sell essential oils to you. And it's like, he wouldn't actually, did he actually
ride a horse on stage? Oh, is that he, he, he was, he was on the back of a noble steed constantly.
Yeah. As, as I said, in the Barbie movie, a horse is a man extender. And that's, I think, how he
saw it. Wait, are you, are you being real? I can't tell if you're joking right now. Are you being
No, I'm being, I'm being totally serious. If you look up footage, you just look up like D Gary Young,
you know, on YouTube, there's no way that one of the first three search results will not include
some shot of him riding a horse. Like, if you look up any biopic of his, he's riding a horse at
some point, dude loves riding horses. It's, it's a big deal. He's like supposed to be like this,
you know, country boy, the simple man who just had experience with God, you know,
he's supposed to be a farmer and a rancher and a good, you know, a good simple man, but like,
that's out on the frontier, you know, he's relatable. No, he's like a multimillionaire scam artist.
Oh, that's so brutal. Wow. So we're coming to like up to our time. You, you're on your channel,
you've, you've constantly been covering, you've had satanists on recently, which that's another
thing I've told this story probably more times. It's never going to happen. I was going to have
a satanist on the channel and they chose to drink tea and pumpkin and bake me pumpkin scones,
because they said they make amazing pumpkin scones. And I was like, what is, what is going
on here with this? So I've told that story about a hundred times, everyone's secretly saying it,
but you've recently had a satanist on, you've recently talked about Christian nationalism.
Can you talk a little bit about what you're uncovering with when it comes to, look, Australia
is a wild place. We got animals, we got, you know, crazy stuff happening, but our political
environment isn't as, what can I say, interesting as what's happening in the States right now. In
fact, Australia just crossed the line where we have more non-religious people than we do religious
people. So I think we're at 38% non-religious. I think I'll have to check the statistics, but
but yeah, we're the largest non-believers of the largest group. So can you tell us a little bit
about Christian nationalism and where you see things kind of going? Yeah. So I, on my channel,
especially recently, really tried to get into sociology. That's kind of like my main interest,
the main thing I read about now in my everyday life. And I think it's important that we understand
what sociologists, you know, people who are coming at these, these social issues from kind
of a more historically well-informed and scientifically well-informed perspective,
have to say. And I think one piece of kind of popular sociology that I like to make sure that
my audience is aware of is that there are several sociologists, including some that have said this
on my channel and that I've cited on my channel, say like there's a thing that they say that
when there is rapid cultural change, when there's just any form of really rapid change
within a society or culture, then people tend to become particularly groupish when they feel
physically threatened, especially they will kind of cling to authoritarian strongmen type leaders,
you know, people like Trump, people like Putin, people like what Kim Jong-un wants to be,
and this kind of thing. And so really it's like, oh, is America crumbling? Is there some really
extremely deep problem that people are facing? And that's why there's so much extremism.
There's probably something to that. You know, wealth inequality is getting very extreme here,
and I think more so than in any of America's history, post-industrial revolution. But I don't
know that we even necessarily need that factor to explain a large portion of this. You know, even
just in our lifetimes, like we're young, but in our lifetimes, there has been a lot of change
when it comes to technology. You know, you and I dealt with dial-up when we were being taught
how to use computers, and we were the first generation to be taught how to use computers at
a young age. And now, I mean, the idea that you can carry around like a supercomputer in your pocket
and have like a virtual person talking to you through the YouTube or Twitch app constantly,
like my parents would scream at me if I spent more than like 15 minutes on the dial-up because
it was going to hike up their phone bill too much, you know. And so there's a huge amount of
technological change we've gone through with the US. There's a lot of demographic change,
not just religiously, but also in other ways, culturally, you know, like people, certain types
of people here get really, really worried about the fact that within a few decades, or at least
within the next century, you know, white people will be still the largest ethnicity, like the
largest racial group in the US, but they won't be the majority of people in the US anymore.
And like, there's a lot of us that are like, okay, like who cares? But there are a lot of people
that just, they may not even think of it as like, oh, there are these people coming in that I don't
like. They just see things changing around them. Like, you know, here in Austin, you go places that
used to be primarily white, and then they became primarily Hispanic, and now they're primarily
South Asian. And it's like just having that change for some people, even if they don't think of it as
I dislike this type of person, will see that and be like, whoa, like everything is changing around
me. This inherently scares me. I can't really describe why I don't, I'm not trying to be
particularly racist, but they get scared of change. And then there are people who just,
when they feel that like, tension in themselves dive into, you know, racist white supremacists,
you know, conspiracy theories and things, they get fully into it. Or they're really susceptible
to be brought in by some type of, you know, charismatic recruiter that happens with a lot
of young men right here on YouTube, you know. And, and so, yeah, I think that this Christian
nationalism thing in the US has a lot to do with just how fast things are changing. Some of the
change is very, very good. Some of it's probably most of it is pretty neutral. And some of it's
not necessarily good. But change period is enough to drive a significant portion of people into
authoritarianism and paranoia, you know. Hmm. Yeah. You had a video where you mentioned that
you can't even be, you can't even run for office in some, in some states if you're
an atheist. Yeah, that's wild. Yeah. And that's, that's been a thing. Like it's not,
it's not new. It's been a thing in the US and US state constitutions for,
God, I don't even know how long, for decades, if not, you know, since the states were founded,
so like well over 100, 150 years, one good thing about the US is that a, you know,
the federal constitution will override that if an atheist tries to run. However, the cultural roots
of, you know, mentalities like that, that were, you know, codified in state constitutions, they're
still there. So, I mean, have we ever had someone try to run for governor or Senate and just talk
about that they're an atheist openly? I mean, you have people say like, I'm a humanist and then be
kind of quiet about their religious beliefs. There's a four or five of them maybe that are
something like that in, in Congress, you know, so not even particularly influential politicians.
But no, we, in the US, if you poll the American public, the most distrusted religious groups
in the US go, the bottom is Satanist, and then you go up a bit and you have atheist and Muslim
right there neck and neck. Yeah. And, and I mean, I think that people like, you know, I'm sure you
realize in Australia how many, how much American politics was wrapped up in like really hating
Muslims and even just Arab people generally for so, so long. Like we could even have
President Bush saying like, no, Islam is a religion of peace to his conservative base.
And like, which did actually happen. You can look it up. It's on YouTube even. And people still
flipped out about it. And there's still ideas like that, you know, and yet atheists are just as
distrusted as Muslims. And there are a lot more atheists in the US than there are Muslims, like
at least double. I mean, probably I would say almost an order of magnitude more atheist than
there are Muslims in the US. It's, it's insane. So is Christianity shrinking, right? Or like at
least is the religious, its religiosity decreasing in the States? Yeah, so religiosity, yes, overall
is shrinking in the US. Christianity in particular is shrinking. However, it seems to be from the
data that I've seen, primarily moderates and liberal Christians who are leaving the faith.
And so you see mainline denominations like United Methodist, like absolutely tanking. I mean, they
used to be one of, if not the biggest denomination in the US, they've always been like pretty moderate.
And they, they have a church in almost every single county in the US. And yet they're, they're
plummeting faster than any denomination, as far as I can tell. And, you know, denominations like
Southern Baptist, pretty conservative, they are declining too. But then you have denominations
like Pentecostal and Assemblies of God, like the most charismatic congregations that are very good
at this kind of technology, manipulating people like I discussed earlier. They're also very conservative.
They don't seem to be going anywhere. And in fact, worldwide, they're growing really fast, like
scary fast. And in the US, it doesn't seem like they're really declining. They could be growing
by a few percentage points. So what that ultimately means is the nuns, people who don't claim a
religious affiliation are growing the fastest. But people who are really, really conservative and
really strict about their Christianity specifically, they don't really seem to be going anywhere.
And they seem to have gotten really, really good at kind of radicalizing people who don't even belong
to their churches. Like the average Trump voter doesn't go to church like any more than someone
like me or you or any kind of nun, non-religious person. But because they kind of have this
Christianity has kind of taken over the entire right wing in the US now, it's like
being a conservative Christian, even in name only, is the same thing as being a Republican or even
being conservative, which is surprisingly still relatively new of a phenomenon, even if you
consider like how hugely Reagan affected our politics back in the day. I mean, Reagan has,
in Reaganomics, Reagan's entire brand had nothing on what's going on right now in the US. It's not
fringe. This goes right back. This goes right back. You see, I'm a genius. I'm a genius interviewer.
This goes right back to the first question that we asked is, which is like, that I said, which is
like, you're such a nice person. How can you be an atheist? Atheists aren't trusted. And it's like
this narrative that needs to change, right? Because I think like, there's so many people I
talk to who I go, oh, do you believe in God? They go, no, like, what are you talking about?
Like, what, like, what, like from the Bible? And I'm like, yeah. And I go, so you're an atheist?
And they go, oh, no, I'm not an atheist. And that's like, the atheist is seen as this like,
this like hardcore agnosticism, like someone's gone, they were agnostic, and then they got angry
and then they became an atheist, which is like, well, it's not the case, right? Do you think we
should just abandon the word atheism and just become like, I don't know, something like something
else? So like, like, what do you think? Like, we should, it's something that we should be rescued
back. I mean, like, you know, Matt De La Honte, Aaron Rod people, you know, have been, you know,
Dan Barker been fighting this war for a long time. Should we just give up? Or should we,
you know, on the word? Or should we just, or should we just continue?
Yeah, so it's like, I don't presume to tell anybody what they should do when it comes to,
their religious label. Like, I think that that is something that comes from your specific identity
from the people that you're around, you know, what you want the word and the label to do and
communicating to people. But I can say and speak to what I do, you know, I'm, I'm not someone who
philosophically speaking, I've said this so many times, and I've never really gotten any real heat
for it. I'm shocked that I, you know, I wouldn't brandish myself as an atheist. Like, I don't
claim that there is no God. I'm not even really big on the like, well, I just lack belief in God.
And that's what true atheism is, like, whatever. To me, I guess I would, if I was going to be
writing a philosophical paper that I had to use strict terminology to define my beliefs, like,
I would say that I'm agnostic, you know, I just don't, I don't think you can know about this stuff.
I don't know that it's even a knowable thing, or the question is defined very well. And I don't
think there's any really good way to find out any of this. And that's why I tend to like act as if
there is nothing there, because I don't act like unicorns are like constantly right behind me at
all moments either, right? But any unicorns are mentioned in the Bible too. Yeah, they are. They
are. But I do like to call myself an atheist because, like, you and I and calling ourselves
atheists and getting on and talking like, we live in different countries, like there are different
things about our cultures. But like, we both call ourselves atheists. And then we talk about our
backgrounds. And there's so much in common. And that's like, that's super normal for people like
us calling ourselves atheists. You know, it's, for me, being an atheist isn't like, simply a lack of
belief or simply a single statement on, you know, one idea or whatever. It has to do with the people
that I relate to. And what I want it to communicate to other people, most of the time, if I say,
like, I'm an atheist, and another person says, Oh, me too, this is what happens, we figure out we
have a lot in common. And I want to be able to have that their social utility to that for sure.
But also, here in the South, in the US, if you say, I'm agnostic, then people will be like,
okay, so you're amenable to the gospel, you're just, you just haven't gotten the right
hit of Jesus to come to the faith. But all right, I just, I'm so glad that you are so open-minded
and that you're willing to listen to my sermon now. And it's like, no, I want to, I want you to
realize that I have, I have firm positions about this kind of thing. I have clear thoughts and
opinions that I think are well sourced in these kinds of things. And I don't want you to think
that it's going to be easy to convert me. And so for me, saying that, you know, I'm an atheist,
kind of communicates that better. I do also think that, you know, with me being the nice,
friendly, and non-threatening guy that I am, if I call myself an atheist, it doesn't always work.
But for some people, they're like, wait, my idea of what an atheist is like is kind of shattered
right now. And then they can look at someone like Aaron Raw, who looks like the physical
incarnation of Satan. I can say that because he's a buddy of mine. Like, they're not going to look
at him and think so quickly, at least I hope, oh, because he's an atheist, he's a horrible person.
It's like, Aaron Raw is not a horrible person. This is actually like a very kind guy. He's very
generous, you know. Oh, he's amazing. When he was on the show, it was one of the best shows. We were
laughing about him running on the street with his emu. I couldn't believe the story. Yeah.
Right. And so, I do kind of want to reclaim and change the public perception of what an
atheist is. And that's one of the reasons why I claim that. I mean, that could change, I guess,
at some point. But for me, it's worked out. And it's also helped me to gather like-minded people
around me so that we can have some community together and help support each other.
Hmm. It's like, I guess, like Sunni and Shia both say that they're Muslim, but they're very
different. Like, they're different in a lot of ways, you know. Yeah. I keep losing my
chain of thought. Maybe I haven't eaten anything today. Maybe that's it. It's only-
That's probably what it is. Yeah. Yeah. So, you tease me in the back room about
about a story that I would like to end on. So, you tell us about your first job out of college.
Yeah. This is something that only my friends on Patreon know about. But people who read the paper
on a very specific day in late 2016, I think, also knew because I was on the front page because of it.
So. Oh, wow. Okay. I'm so excited. Yeah. So, I went to, you know, evangelical Christian school.
We had a large cafeteria. And the way that our meal plans worked is, you know, in your tuition,
you have to purchase a meal plan if you live on campus. So, that meant that everyone paid
in a specific amount of money. You could either spend that money by going to the cafeteria
and eating there, like during the regular meal times, or you could spend it, you know,
or I guess I should say, and you can spend it by buying things that like coffee shops and like
little burrito stands and stuff we had around the campus. So, we all had this meal plan money.
And part of it is what we called flex cash. That's the coffee and burrito money.
A lot of people were like me. And they didn't really do, they don't drink coffee. They don't
really go and get all these like extra things. They eat at their meal times. And so, their flex
cash was just like $1,000, just sitting there doing absolutely nothing at the end of the semester.
And so, a lot of the time, what we would do is like go to these places and buy like 100 burritos
and then go and like throw them at people around campus, just completely wasting the food.
And you know, there were traditions about this on campus. We got apples and threw them at certain
buildings. It was fun. But I thought one day like, we're literally getting this food when and throwing
it at each other or just like stuffing ourselves needlessly during finals week,
when we have a homelessness epidemic, horrible crisis in the city,
like maybe friends could buy a bunch of food and we could just drive it into the place,
places like downtown where there are more homeless people and just give us, give them pizza or
burritos or whatever. And I thought like, there's got to be a better way to deliver it to more people
than that. So, I started looking into different organizations like nonprofits in the area that
dealt with homelessness that my university was connected to. And I found one. And I was like,
okay, like they serve hundreds of people. They have tons of beds. They have a massive freezer
that can fit tons and tons and tons of food. And they're in need of some very specific food items.
So, I like, I talked to the homeless shelter. They told me what they needed. And then I think
you could probably tell I was in my senior year here. And I like, I kind of knew what I was doing.
Like, I had some, some service project experience. And I was pretty confident in the way that I
carried myself. And I realized that the money at the end of the semester that we were just wasting
or we weren't spending was going to someone. And I figured that was probably the, the cafeteria,
the catering company. And let's be realistic. It's not going to the workers that are like
making our food every day. They're paid an hourly wage. It's going to the top people, right? Like,
it's going to their CEO, it's going to their managers, then they're getting Christmas bonuses
and all this shit they don't even need. And I was like, they're not going to want to give this up.
But if I can convince them that they will look really good without actually losing very much of
this money, then maybe I can trick them into, into allowing me to have a sign up sheet that they
have legally signed to allow me to do this, where students can walk into the cafeteria. I have a
booth and they like the student comes up and I'm like, Hey, you can give your flex money here.
And we're going to donate it to such and such mission so that they can buy food for their,
for their people at the shelter. And you know, like, it sounds obvious, like there's a lot of
students that are going to do this going to be thousands of dollars. It did end up being over
$8,000. But I didn't want the cafeteria people to realize how big it was going to be. So I would
like schedule a meeting where I purposely misspelled things in the email, like with the manager of
the cafeteria and be like, you know, Hey, like, I have never really done this kind of thing before,
but can I have like a meeting with you? And then I show up like a little bit late to look like an
amateur, you know, that wasn't really serious. And then I would like purposely make my voice
high pitched and, and just act like I had no clue what I was doing and be like, Yeah, so like some
of my friends, like we just, you know, we just want to be able to give like some of the food
to the homeless people around. And we just figured like, we could probably do like a couple hundred
dollars. Like I would my dream is to donate $1,000. It would be so crazy. And, and I would love to be
able to say, you know, like, if you help me with this, I'm going to get up and chapel and like
thank the cafeteria for saying for doing this. And she's like, All right, like the cafeteria was
widely hated. And that manager was widely hated on campus, people hated her and her staff hated her
too. And so she's like, This looks like good PR and this kid has no idea what he's doing. So
there's no way he's going to raise real money. And so I get her to sign a statement that's like,
I'm going to let Drew do this. I table every single day, even get all my friends to like table like
anytime the cafeteria is open, and when I'm in class, whatever, and we get people to sign over
over $8,000 worth of this money, which probably would have been mostly going to her and a couple
of her buddies. And then I'm like, All right, I got to make sure that the exchange here, there's a
there's an exchange of power that goes smoothly here. And so when she like hands me the check,
I need God, I sound like an asshole. I need witnesses. And so I called the city paper.
And I was like, Hey, this just happened. And I got like a media rep from my school to back me up
that this had happened. And so we've got like a reporter there with the camera to photograph the
check being handed over. She's like covering her face doing this. And so they didn't use that
paper, they didn't use that photo, but they used a photo of me like holding up like my student ID,
and being like, you know, we just got like $8,000, you know, stolen from our school,
basically, or no, charitably donated by our school to give to a homeless shelter. And yeah,
I mean, when when there's a reporter there, she wasn't going to not hand me the check,
right? Yeah, she was going to look horrible. So that's how I got this person to hand over
her Christmas bonus, basically, to a home so that we could buy ham for a bunch of homeless people
in our area. And the cherry on top. Yeah, yeah, I mean, we I think that we bought like over $5,000
worth of ham to put in their freezer. And like me and a bunch of my buddies that did this just
they're like, we have too much ham. Can can you guys help us load the ham into our freezer?
And we're like, yeah, we'll do it. That's amazing. And I got to know some of the people at the
shelter through doing this. And like, I really liked them. I think that they liked me. And
as soon as I graduated, I told them I graduated, and they're like, we're going to look for a job
for you because we don't want you to work for us. So that is how I got my first job out of college
was by stealing from the people at my school to give to the homeless shelter.
Oh, man. So, oh, do you think if they if you didn't have like the reporters and everyone there
that she wouldn't have handled over the money or like, I don't know, he's not sure. I don't know.
It's like it would have really been against her best judgment to do that because even if the
just students saw her do that, like downplayed it. So it made it seem like it's going to be
like a couple hundred dollars, maybe $1,000. Yeah. And then you kind of had all these signatures,
essentially, and you're like, this is how much we need it. Yeah, it's basically there's a sign
up sheet that I like I present her at the end of the semester. Hey, this is the money that you
agreed to take out of your bank account and give to the shelter for food. And I remember,
I just remember seeing the figure and being like, okay, sure. Like she the paper, the paper,
Ucernel actually reached out to her for comment about it. And it says in the paper like such and
such did did not give any comment. Oh, wow. Wow. That's that's so cool. Well, I've got a couple
of super chats if we can. Yeah, yeah, let's do it. D. D. Thank you for the five of the super chat.
Love the footage of Drew and Armin Navabi. Sorry. Oh my gosh. In Israel, any chance of any other
collapse? Oh my god. And not in Israel at the very least. Yeah, not not for a good long time. I
don't think any of us know what's gonna happen in their future right now. People who are saying
they do are grifters in my opinion, you know, but I don't know, like if there was like a project,
I think that Armin and I could really collaborate on and work on like, maybe, you know, I'm open to
that. But in Israel, unfortunately, not. Yeah, I love that series as well. It's something that
that point that I remember from that. I can't remember. It was definitely you guys in Israel,
but you would you were interviewing people in the street about if their family were atheists,
and they were all like shocked, like they were like, like, I could like, it was like they couldn't
even comprehend it and they would like disown their family just for not believing. Yeah, it was
it's very, I get the vibe that it's very, the religiosity over there is very different
to how it is in the West. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. And I mean, the great thing about that video is
we did run into some, it was only young people would say this, but they'd be like, no, of course,
I would love them. They'd be like, you know, I'm me, one kid said, me, I'm a Muslim. But of course,
I would love them and I wouldn't think any differently of them. You know, that's still my
brother as far as I'm concerned. And that was really great to see among like the younger generation
there. Yeah, yeah. I just I wonder when we're going to get old and then, you know, the old enough
that the younger generation, we don't understand and they're like too aggressive. I'm waiting for it
to happen. I'm trying really hard. I'm playing video games. I'm staying up at night drinking
junk food. I'm trying to stay immature as much as I can. But yeah, that's I know it will happen
one day. I'll be like the I wonder what I wonder what stage will become a conservative.
It's as soon as you own a significant amount of property.
Exactly. Skeptics and scoundrels. It's been a long time, Eric. I was actually thinking about
the other day. Big fan, Drew, I like you planning to spoil what David has said about you. Sorry,
man. I spoke a lot of smack about you behind the scenes, obviously. I don't even that's a joke.
I've never I've never spoken to you. He's got an amazing YouTube channel and he's doing some
cool stuff. Yeah, really cool. So that wasn't really a question, but just more of a state with
the fact and pragmatic crystal. Thanks for shouting out the patron. We were doing I'm trying to build
more of a community there and, you know, patron support super chats. They really help go a long
way to support this channel. I've got I've written on my my my glass here in chalk, like when I can
focus like part time on this channel, like a couple days a week, where I can focus full time,
because at the moment, I've got a full time job and I need to pay the bills, obviously. So the
goal is eventually get this full time. And so I've got a little graph, like 12% of the way there. So,
you know, the more support we can get, the more patron really helps out this channel a lot. And
if you like content like this, make sure you subscribe. Really appreciate it. And of course,
go subscribe to genetically modified skeptic. And your partner has a channel as well, right? The
Antibody. Yeah, yeah, my wife has a channel and I have to say, like, she's absolutely killing it
lately. I mean, she her channel has like exploded lately. Like if you look at, I mean, her most
recent video, you know, we keep thinking like, Oh, you're, you know, your average views is like
50,000. They're like, No, it's like 60, no, it's 70. No, it's, you know, so she's, as you can see,
some of the older videos, like you have a certain amount of views. But then like the last year or
so, she's like, I don't know what she's done, but she's killing it. I've only discovered, like,
I've gone on different accounts, but I've only discovered her channel in the last, like, literally
two weeks or something. And, you know, it's great. It's really good content and seeing you on there
a lot as well. Yeah, I need to, I need to swindle her into coming on to Deep Drinks. It should be
great conversation because she talks a lot about relationships, right? Yeah, so that's like her
channel is, it's like not something that we really intended to do on her channel. It was just like,
you know, she had some video ideas that were responding to what certain Christians said
about relationships. So she had the idea like, what if we as an atheist couple respond to this
Christian couple? And I was like, Yeah, that sounds like a good idea. And those videos did so well
and now it's, it's like we've realized there's a lot of people that have reached out to us saying
that they haven't really heard atheist couples talking about relationships before. And so that's
something that like she's, you know, purposely wanted to kind of lean into, you know, we don't
say that we wouldn't be like relationship experts or we're not like relationship counselors or
giving advice like that or anything, but more just giving our perspective, given that we have been
both a Christian couple and an atheist couple, and we've been together for over 10 years.
Yeah. That's, that's why I've, I've, I'll tell you after the stream, but I've got an idea. We
should do, we should do a club or something, but I've got the idea because it's something like
my wife and I, like we weren't really hard on that relationship, like really hard. We don't get
everything right, but like we really put in the work and we think about how we can better communicate
and things like that. And I think that's important. And it's not talked enough about in, in, in many
communities in, in the Christian community and as well as the atheist community, but yeah,
I really appreciate what you guys are doing. Well, Drew, thank you so much for coming on the
channel. It's been, it's been a blast. It's been really interesting. We only got like halfway
through the notes that I had, but, but it was a wild and exciting interview, nonetheless. So
anything you want to say before we round up the interview? I'll just say I had a lot of fun and
I definitely think that you guys should help David get to beyond 12% of the way there. I think that
he's offering something. Like you get, you get great guests, but you're also a good interviewer.
Also I'm really envious of your camera setup because it looks so good.
I can go, go, go hit up the deep drinks podcast, Patreon. That's what I have to say.
Oh, but thank you. What, what, what, thank you. That's very, I feel like I'm trying to be a really
good interviewer. I thank you for saying that, but I've forgotten what I was saying twice or in
this. And I'm like, what is going on with my brain? Like maybe I need more vitamin B12 or
something else. Like, so, but I appreciate it. I really do appreciate it. And it's been great
chatting with you. All right. Well, see you guys later. Make sure you subscribe to genetically
modified skeptic and anti-bot and deep drinks. See you guys.
Bye.
